KOLKATA: Ushering in reforms in the   sector, the state government is set to extend the probation period of teaching and non-teaching staff in government colleges and state universities from the existing one year to up to three years. It is also set to make it mandatory for students to have a minimum attendance percentage to contest union elections and to cast votes. Those with a criminal record will be prohibited from taking part in union elections. 

 At present, teachers recruited to the post of assistant professor, associate professor and professor have to serve a year of probation, at the end of which service can either be confirmed, terminated or the probation period extended for a specified time.
 
 In 2013, the state government amended the   (Appointment, Probation and Confirmation) Rules of 1979 to raise the probation period of government employees to two years and for Group C staff to three years. But the higher education department did not notify the changes and, as a result, some state government colleges continued with the one-year probation and some switched to two. But with universities enjoying autonomy, its teachers continued to enjoy one-year probation. 
 
 The government now feels the need to bring in uniformity. For this, it can frame rules under the   and Colleges (Administration and Regulation) Act 2017.
 
 A Nabanna official said, “After three years, if someone is not confirmed, that period will not be considered during career advancement and the employment will be treated as contractual.” 
 
 Senior teachers said the extension of probation period up to three years will discourage efficient and qualified teachers from taking up state jobs. In central institutes, the probation period is one year. “A teacher can be judged within a semester or two. The quality of a teacher depends on his punctuality and ability to teach. Hence increasing the probation period to three years is not advisable,” said a teacher in a state-run university. 
 
 In universities, a teacher’s performance is primarily evaluated by his/her HoD and then placed before the highest policy-making body. In college appointments, the decision lies with the principal and governing body. 
 
 The other key changes the government envisions under the new   Universities and Colleges Act are asset declaration by teaching and non-teaching staff and preparation of annual confidential report and performance appraisal report.
 
 The annual confidentiality report is likely to ask the VCs to mention performance, leaves taken, number of teaching days, disciplinary action if any. The medical check-up and police verification of all teachers and non-teaching staff will be mandatory before joining.
 
