INDORE: Indore Municipal Corporation has begun work on the first phase of development under the river front development project. Officials said that in this phase, the stretch from   to Krishna Bridge would be developed. The development work of   would also be taken up. The work would cost Rs 9.5 crore.

 “We have already started the work, a lot has been done in the project,” said Rohan Saxena, additional commissioner, IMC.
 
 While developments like restricting drain water from entering the river has already started, building a path and other beautification work is expected to begin soon.
 
 However, the biggest problem IMC faces is finding a suitable place for those, who would be displaced. Officials said that the encroachments would be cleared soon. “We are in talks with the people. If need be, we will provide them alternate accommodation under the housing scheme,” Saxena said
 
 Along the 3.9 km stretch, there are a lot of encroachments on the river banks. Illegal slums are present all along  , Chandrabhaga and Kabutarkhana area. The stretch from Harsiddhi bridge to Gangaur ghat has many illegal establishments too.
 
 Parks, leisure spaces and green belts would be constructed all along the river bed. Officials of IMC had planned to develop the river side like Sabarmati in Gujarat.
 
 “Along with the banks it is necessary to clean the water as well, we have proposed water treatments plants to ensure that the river remains clean,” an official said.
 
 In the second stage, the stretch from Jawahar Marg to Gangaur ghat would be renovated. In the last phase of development work, Gangaur Ghat to Karbala bridge would be developed.
 
 Officials said planning for the next stage was also in full swing and a detailed project report would be prepared soon.
 
 Fountain on bridge
 
 In the first of its kind initiative in the state, Indore zoo has turned the bridge on Kahn into a water fountain where water is sprinkled through more than 400 small pores. The water of the river that is mixed with sewerage water has been treated with the help of both traditional and modern techniques. In order to keep things clean, the water from the river is first transferred to well like structures, walls of which are covered with sand. The sand acts as a purifier, the water seeps through the sand as it happens in natural wells, this is the first stage of purification. The water is then purified through water purification machines and sprayed through the pores. Zoo officials said that they were planning to use the same water for other activities in zoo.
 
