SHIMLA: To clear the confusion among party leadership in Himachal Pradesh, Congress high command Sonia Gandhi has made it clear that ‘mission repeat’ would be possible only with the team work and by keeping chief minister Virbhadra Singh at the forefront.

 In a meeting with Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Friday, although Virbhadra Singh batted strongly for the removal of state Congress president  , his demand was not accepted.
 
 A senior Congress leader privy to the development, requesting anonymity, told TOI that the high command has made it clear that election would be contested as a team. He said that Virbhadra Singh would be the chairman of the campaign committee — besides there would be a manifesto committee and a publicity committee.
 
 As the Congress in Himachal Pradesh is divided into factions, the high command with its decision has tried to maintain a balance between the two. Loyalists of Virbhadra were demanding free hand for him ahead of the polls but the high command did not accept it.
 
 “By giving importance to Virbhadra Singh and retaining Sukhvinder as the president, the Congress high command has signalled that both the factions will have to work for the party by creating a balance,” sources said.
 
 Sources said that to placate Virbhadra Singh, the party supremo would also give a ticket to his son Vikramaditya Singh, who is all set to contest from Shimla rural assembly constituency at present.
 
 After meeting Rahul Gandhi, the CM also met senior Congress leader Ahmad Patel during which state transport minister G S Bali was also with him. As ticket distribution is going to be a challenge, a decision has been taken to distribute tickets by forming a committee.
 
 On Saturday, Bali along with state panchayati raj minister   met Virbhadra Singh at Himachal Bhawan in Delhi. According to the sources they discussed about the October 7 rally of Rahul Gandhi in   district. Sources, however, said that the venue of the rally was yet to be decided.
 
 “It is not clear whether rally would be held at Paddal ground or at Pandoh,” they said.
 
 Rivalry of Virbhadra and Sukhu has left the party workers worried in the state as both were not missing any opportunity to attack each other from public platforms. Before heading to Delhi, Virbhadra Singh had again attacked Sukhu by raising the issue of having nominated leaders in the organization. While Sukhu is the nominated president, Virbhadra Singh wants someone who comes through election.
 
