NEW DELHI: The   said on Tuesday that it didn't send a sample of a   found in the   last week to Agra's FSL laboratory for analysis.

 The government's statement comes a day after the Agra lab, FSL, said it didn't find any trace of explosives in the powder. 
 
 However, four days ago, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister   said that a lab in Lucknow, SFSL, did find traces of  , a powerful plastic   in the mystery powder that was found in the State Assembly on July 12.
 
 "Reports in sections of media that in tests conducted at FSL Agra the substance detected in UP Assembly hall is not PETN. This is to clarify that no sample (was) sent to FSL Agra of the substance as they don't have machines/wherewithal to conduct tests," said the state's principal secretary (home) to ANI. 
 
 FSL had earlier claimed that it is the only laboratory in Uttar Pradesh that has "the best expertise to examine explosive material". 
 
 "Had there been no doubt that the substance was PETN, the samples would not have been sent to us for examination from Lucknow. The substance was found on July 12 and on July 14 was officially declared to be PETN. But in UP, Agra has the best expertise to examine explosive material," a senior official at the Agra lab told TOI on Monday.
 
 The top UP bureaucrat however said the Lucknow lab SFSL, in its report dated July 14, did find PETN in the white powder that was found under a legislator's chair in the State Assembly last week. 
 
 "The factual position is that SFSL Lucknow in its report dated 14.7.2017 has found the substance as water insoluble. Different reagents confirm the presence of a nitrate (and) a preliminary test conducted, using an explosive detection kit, (came up) positive for PETN," the principal secretary said.
 
 He also indicated that two more confirmatory tests are being conducted at SFSL Lucknow and the report on those tests will likely be ready on Thursday.
 
 Adityanath last Saturday described the presence of explosive material inside the Assembly as nothing less than a "terror plot". 
 
