MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government’s ambitious loan   scheme has left out the weakest section of farmers in the  .

 There are nearly 17.5 lakh small and marginal farmers in the state who have taken loans of nearly Rs 2,150 crore in the last two years from government-recognized moneylenders. However, their outstanding loans will not be covered in the Rs 34,022 crore   waiver scheme announced by the chief minister.   activists say the government decision has left a large section of needy farmers in the lurch.
 
 Data accessed by TOI shows there are over 12,000 licensed moneylenders in the state who gave out loans amounting to Rs 893 crore in 2015-16 and Rs 1,254 crore in 2016-17. An official said that nearly 40% of farmers in the drought- and suicide-prone areas of Vidarbha and Marathawada rely on moneylenders for crop loans. 
 
 These farmers have extremely small land holdings, which is one of the key reasons for them not being eligible for bank loans—banks typically keep farm land as mortgage against farm loans. 
 
 Another reason for the high dependence on moneylenders is the poor banking network in these areas. “When banks are inaccessible or controlled by a privileged few and are unable to dole out loans to small farmer, they have no option but to resort to moneylenders,” said Vijay Jawandhia, a farmer leader from Vidarbha. He said that the number of farmers taking loans from institutions other than banks in the state may be much higher, as data from unlicensed moneylenders is not available with the government. 
 
 The interest rate charged by moneylenders for crop loans ranges between 30% and 60%. Most farmers pay the huge interest fo years while defaulting upon the principal amount. “These are farmers who need small amounts for their farming activity. The government should consider including them too,” said Jawandhia. Subhash Deshmukh, minister for co-operation department, was not available for comment.
 
 In December 2014, the state government had announced a Rs 171 crore package to bail out farmers from Vidarbha and Marathwada who had taken agricultural loans. However, due to the stringent and impractical norms, only Rs 60 crore could be disbursed and nearly Rs 110 crore was returned to the government. “The current loan waiver is only limited to loans taken from banks and are outstanding. The whole objective is to make farmers—who today cannot get loans from banks because of their outstanding—eligible for loans again,” said an official.
 
 There are nearly 40 lakh defaulting farmers in the state today who will be getting the benefit of the waiver; more than 36 lakh of them will get a full loan waiver as their outstanding amount is less that Rs 1.5 lakh, which is the upper limit set by the state government. Just last week, the CM extended the date to cover farmers who have an outstanding since 2009. That decision is likely to increase the number of farmers by 4-5 lakh and the cost of the bailout by Rs 4,000-5,000 crore.
 
 
