MUMBAI: Residents of parts of south Mumbai and western suburbs such as Bandra and Khar were inconvenienced on Monday due to power outages in their areas for more than four hours. 

 “It is frustrating staying without a fan or AC in this sultry weather,” said a resident of Bandra West. “In most buildings, the lifts are also not working due to the power cuts, and senior citizens are majorly inconvenienced.” 
 
 In parts of Marine Lines, a few buildings were affected by an outage that lasted for more than three hours. The BEST officials said this was due to some fault in the “distribution system,” and efforts were taken to restore supply at the earliest.
 
 The cuts have come close on the heels of similar outages in parts of Jogeshwari, Malad and Vile Parle a few days ago. Residents, who called up this newspaper, have demanded uninterrupted supply in the city, especially during the sweltering summer.
 
 Sources in the power utility firms said that many times, the outages occurred due to faults in the network, and a team of officials was on standby to restore supply at the earliest. “We also arrange for the diesel generator (DG) sets to provide supply temporarily till the problem is rectified,” said an official.
 
 In the case of Bandra and Khar, sources said that DG sets were provided in some areas and rotational load-shedding was carried out. Sources said there was fault in the  . 
 
 In a tweet on Monday afternoon, Reliance Energy mentioned: “We regret the inconvenience caused to our valued customers in Bandra and Khar due to an ongoing power interruption. We would be progressively restoring the supply to these areas. We solicit your cooperation and patience in case you are intermittently without power while we strive to restore full normalcy.” Several   customers (changeover) who were on the Reliance network also faced power cuts. 
 
 A Reliance Energy spokesperson subsequently issued a statement, saying “Spurt in power demand due to persistent summer heat resulted in multiple abnormalities in the concentrated area of Bandra (West). To maintain network stability, rotational load shedding for one hour is being carried out. For the convenience of our customers, we have already deployed DG sets. The field teams are working on war footing basis so as to restore the supply normalcy by 10:30 pm.”
 
 A few buildings at Marine Lines faced outage for four hours, and residents were put to hardship. At around 8.45pm, a senior BEST official said: “We have restored supply in one building and are working hard to ensure that power supply is restored in 4-5 affected buildings at the earliest.”
 
 
