LUCKNOW: They were not paper balls but applications from members of the SP, said leader of opposition   about the paper balls and missiles thrown at governor   during his speech in the assembly on Monday. 

 Chaudhary said that since the   security did not let SP members reach the governor with their pleas, they tried to throw the same towards the governor.
 
 Chaudhary’s claims invited condemnation from the treasury benches while Speaker   burst into laughter. The SP leader was speaking against the notice by Noida MLA Pankaj Singh on propriety.
 
 Dixit listened to all parties and reserved his decision on the notice until an “appropriate time”. 
 
 Earlier, Pankaj said that many MLAs had come to the House for the first time and it was unfortunate that they saw unrule scenes and not the Governor’s address. The governor’s dignity has been compromised, Singh said, adding that it was a dent on the constitutional arrangement.
 
 Speaking against the motion, Chaudhary said the Governor was the head of the state and everyone had high regard for the constitutional post. No paper balls were thrown at the governor, Chaudhary claimed and added that the members wanted their applications to reach him.
 
 Later, the Speaker invited BSP leader in the House Lalji Varma to speak. “Would you like to throw some light on whether paper balls were thrown at governor or not,” Dixit asked.
 
 In response, Verma said the issue was not under the question of propriety. 
 
 Speaking for the motion, parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna said it was true that BJP members had also staged protests during the governor’s address but what happened on Monday was different. 
 
 What would have happened if a member had wrapped a pebble or stone in the paper and it would have hit the governor, Khanna said.
 
 “What will the 238 new MLAs learn? What example are we setting?” he questioned.
 
 After listening to all sides, Dixit said that the issue was a serious one. As of now, judgement is being reserved and would be pronounced at an appropriate time, the Speaker concluded.
 
