What happens when the French superstar bombshell Bardot slinks into the unglamorous  ? Voila! Mumbai’s only French restaurant (other than the creperie Suzette) ‘Slink and Bardot’ opens. It’s whimsical and youthful and the perfect place to dine with young, sparkly, gorgeous well-travelled foodie friends. UPENN (The University of Pennsylvania) graduate Namrata Jaykrishna has not only majored in Food Psychology but has also been dining and clubbing all over the world with sisters Aanandita (Psychology major from Wesleyan) and NYU freshman,  . Even the older gourmet generation, Sejal and Munjal Jaykrishna, give it the thumbs up.

 
 
 Be warned, it’s a swampy, bumpy drive through the messy Worli Village… But it’s all part of the experience of getting to the bungalow of this new sexy babe. Can a French restaurant have plush velvet sofa and coffee table dinner- seating? Floral motifs and paintings on the wall, moodily lit like a seductive siren; that’s the lounge area. But the schizophrenic restaurant has a more formal dining room space too. All done up by the talented Pavitra Rajaram. A buzzy bar. Jazz and hip-hop playlists curated by the vivacious Nick Harrison wind up the pizzazz many notches. As do his hosting skills.
 
 
 
 We gaze and graze. Well-dressed small plates with nuanced flavours and balanced textures are created by the talented Parisian chef, Alexis Gielbaum. Classic Beef Tartare nuzzles with playful dishes like the ‘French Picnic Basket’.
 Textural contrast and sweet salty kicks infuse his dishes, be it the locally-sourced Brie (lovingly kissed with a lavender and honey glazed, Fillo Shell) or the sweet tomatoes and mozzarella no-bake tart. Sinfully fatty and juicy, 36-hour Belgian Pork Belly, whisky cream rich seared Scallops. Plenty of crisp and well-dressed salads, too. The oozy Dark Chocolate Tartelette seduces. Escoffier would’ve been proud of the rendition of his invention… poached (to tender-firm perfection) Pear Belle Helene paired with velvety vanilla ice cream and hot chocolate sauce. A well-stocked bar, too.
 
 
 
 We had to send back the overdone steak. It was replaced by one done rare (just as requested). Avoidable, deep-fried over-salted panko-crusted Popcorn Chicken. Reminiscent of Massimo Bottura’s famous ‘Oops! I dropped the lemon tart!’ but very unaesthetically plated in one big heap; stodgy Shortbread, too, disappointed. Open for dinner only.
 
 
 
 At last, a French chef offering a taste of Paris in a seductively simmering relaxed lounge setting opens up in Mumbai! It serves only small plates with an average price of Rs 350 each. I admit. I’ve been so love-struck by Paris that I spent two years researching the World’s first vegetarian guide to Paris, and several more shooting my TV food shows throughout France. I’m excited to welcome this young, hip, sexy new arrival. Game changer restaurateur,   (Socials, Salt Water Grill and more) strikes again. He partners with Chef Gielgaum and Nick Harrison and their new glamorous restaurant has an adventurous, contemporary relevance. But a French soul. Ooh la la! 
 
