Hyderabad: It is the peak of summer and as the country eagerly awaits cool showers, New Delhi-based Weather Risk Management Services Pvt Ltd ( ), that provides climate-related information to farmers, has good news for the two Telugu speaking states.

 “Large parts of north India, particularly northwest India, may experience deficiency in overall precipitation. But southern portions of the country are expected to receive normal to excess rainfall,” Kanti Prasad, head of meteorological services at WRMS and former director (technical) at IMD, said.
 
 Prasad pointed out that the peninsular region can expect a good rainfall throughout the rainy season – June, July, August and September. He also added that Kerala will see the onset of monsoon in the first week of June.
 
 “We had two strong El Ninos in 2014 and 2015, after which 2016 was a cool phase. But El Nino appears to be returning after a gap of one year. Although it is not very strong, it is considered to be bad for the monsoon. However, Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) is considered to be favourable and that may counteract the negative effects of El Nino to some extent,” he added.
 
 The IOD is defined by the difference in the sea surface temperatures between the two equatorial regions of the Indian Ocean -- the western end near the Arabian Sea and the eastern one off Indonesia.
 
 He pointed out that as far as the month-to-month distribution of rainfall across the country is concerned, the monsoon is expected to be good in June but gradually there will be a decline in rainfall in July and the month of September is expected to be bad.
 
 Meanwhile, speaking about WRMS, founder Sonu Agrawal pointed out that the long-term forecasts can be used to understand the overall status of the monsoon eco-system but for more reliable region-wise monsoon forecasts, one should for 15-45 days medium-range forecasts, which the company generates periodically and posts on its platforms like myfarminfo.com and weatherzillla.com.
 
 He further stated that the agriculture sector should use modern agri-meteorological tools, remote sensing, data analytics and crop insurance to manage production risks.
 
 The company had clocked revenues of Rs 17 crore in FY17 and expects to grow 2X this fiscal by proving integrated services to farmers in the area of weather management, sourcing and market linkage, among others. This apart, it will also work in the area of the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme). 
 
 
