KOLKATA: The   tiger is indeed different. Unlike its cousins elsewhere, it hunts mostly in the morning, between 5 am and 10 am, a trait borne out by the fact that the   in the mangroves have been recorded between 7 am and noon.

 This is among the nuggets of information on the swamp tiger collected from radio collars fitted on seven big cats. 
 
 Apart from rare insights into the behaviour of the tigers, the radio telemetry study also sheds light on the the mysterious Sunderbans terrain. Spanning eight years between 2008 and 2016, the study shows the habitat of the Sunderbans tiger is perfectly stable and much better than both the Russian Far East and tropical rain forests of south-east Asia. Here, female tigers have a home range of 57 square kilometres and males 110 square kilometres. Home range is an area over which an animal regularly travels in search of food or mates.
 
 “The home range of swamp tigers suggests higher resource availability here,” said Y V Jhala of the department of animal ecology and conservation biology at Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun. 
 
 It is also the prey base that explains the change in the Sunderbans tiger’s hunting hours. Here, the big cats primarily prey on deer, which are diurnal with activity peaking during morning hours. Tigers elsewhere are active mostly at night, an adaptation in synchrony with its primary prey, the sambar deer, that is nocturnal. 
 
 According to an expert, the size of home ranges show an inverse relationship with abundance of prey — smaller the size of the home range, bigger the abundance of prey.
 
 “The smallest home ranges are reported from tropical deciduous forests and resource-rich grasslands of India, like Nagarhole and Kanha, where a female tiger’s home range is as low as 10 square kilometres. The largest home ranges have been reported from Russian Far East, a result of low prey abundance. Range size of Indian Sunderbans tigers is between these extremes and suggests higher prey availability compared to Russian Far East but lower than that of deciduous forests,” explains Jhala.
 
 The study also shows that the Sunderbans tiger prefers bain (avicennia) and keora (sonneratia) plants more over phoenix (hetal) and ceriops (goran) as habitat. According to a scientist, the tigers possibly prefer bain and keora habitat in low lands because of higher prey availability and ease of hunting in these habitats. Hetal and goran habitats on relatively higher grounds give them shelter during high tides and often act as cub-rearing refuges.
 
 The study has been published in PLOS ONE, a peer-reviewed open access scientific journal published by the   (PLOS) since 2006.
 
 Bolstered by the findings the state has now released a collared tigress in the forests outside the Sunderbans core area. “On January 25, a tigress captured earlier from Tridibnagar village was released in the forests of Ajmalmari in   forest division. In the long run, this will help us get an idea on the habitat outside the tiger reserve area,” said chief wildlife warden  .
 
 A forester said a collar can give signals on the tiger’s locations five times a day. While a set of data is received by the officials of WII, another set is transmitted to the state’s chief wildlife warden. A brand new collar can give signals up to a year depending upon the draining of battery.
 
