In a match that commenced well after midnight, the crowd took time to warm up. Maybe the absence of a Goan player for   Union was a dampener; not many were willing to throw their weight behind the hosts at the start but it was only a matter of time before the mood changed.
 
  Former National champions ONGC, Dehradun had won the opening set 25-22 against defending champions Cuncolim but no sooner the hosts swung the match in their favour by winning the second set, the crowd decided to back their team to the hilt, never mind the absence of local players. Cuncolim Union had three international players in their ranks but despite all the backing they had, they eventually fell short against the star-studded   in a thrilling five-setter.
  
  ONGC won 25-22, 24-26, 30-28, 17-25, 15-12 and should be favourites to steal a place in the semifinals.
  
  ONGC have enough experience to know what to do on the court. The former champions started with what looked like a weakened team, resting former India captain Mandeep Singh and star spiker Chand. The sight of Subba Rao, former India spiker – and the tallest   player at one time –was entertaining but Cuncolim, who have invited players from Punjab to represent them, proved equal to the challenge.
  
    and Subham Singh were the better performers for Cuncolim as they took the battle to the opposition. After losing the opening set, Cuncolim stunned ONGC to win two of the next three sets but eventually ran out of steam against their experienced opponents.
  
  For ONGC, Vinit Kumar was in terrific form and was unstoppable in front of the net. He was ably supported by setter Ranjit Singh, unpredictable as ever, besides the likes of Subba Rao, Raman Singh and Navjot Singh.
  
  Cuncolim’s opening-day loss mean they now face a must-win match against South Central Railway, Hyderabad, on Thursday, for a place in the semifinals. With new players expected to be drafted in, Cuncolim should feel reasonably confident that they will not surrender their title so easily.
  
  
 Punjab Police bt Haryana Police 25-19, 30-28, 25-20; ONGC bt South Central Railway. Hyderabad 25-21, 19-25, 25-22, 25-19
