HYDERABAD: Many migrant labourers, who are increasingly being used as pawns by international gangs to smuggle gold, are `unintentionally' getting themselves into trouble with customs department.

 Posing as fellow migrant workers who need help or by offering free flight tickets for carrying a bag full of permitted goods, Dubai-based smuggling gangs have been conning migrant workers to transport gold illegally into India. On being caught with the gold at the city airport, the migrant workers are being arrested by Custom officials. In 2017, Customs officials at RGI Airport booked 18 cases, where smugglers were sending gold through `carriers' returning to the city from the West Asia.
 
 Gold was seized in all the cases and some of the carriers were arrested, when the value of the seized gold was above Rs 20 lakh. About 40% of the persons booked for trying to smuggle gold were migrant labourers from the  , northern   districts, East and   districts and Kadapa district of Andhra Pradesh, officials said.
 
 When Customs officials subjected them to routine questioning, about 25% of such 'carriers' told interrogators that they were totally unaware of the presence of gold in the luggage and it belonged to unidentified people they met near the airport. 
 
 Customs and DRI officials said Chinese and Ethiopian gangs settled in Dubai have been hiding gold into thin foils or other shapes to fit it inside various objects like cell phone battery, flash light or gas regulators. “The smuggling gangs approach the migrant workers through their contacts and requested the workers to carry objects like a corrugated box containing pair of clothes, and hand them over to a family member waiting at the RGI Air port. The gang members conceal gold inside those objects,“ a Customs official said.
 
 After they are booked by the Customs, the migrant workers have no option but to pay penalty. M Bheem Reddy , Migrants Rights Activist, said that the state government should create awareness among the migrant workers about the fraud by putting up hoardings containing relevant messages and playing audio visuals to create awareness at the airport.
 
