AHMEDABAD:   has given his stamp of approval to the   (Regulation of Fees) Bill 2017. This Act, which will be applicable to all schools run by state board, CBSE, ICSE and even  , is expected to bring relief to lakhs of parents who are charged exorbitant fees by private schools. 

 Interestingly, Union MHRD minister   has asked the state government to share the copy of the fee regulation Act, which has created ripples across Gujarat and generated massive curiosity in all other states. 
 
 “We have sent a copy of the bill to HRD minister Prakash Javadekar, after he asked for it. The Union government wants to study the bill for replicating it elsewhere,” said state education minister, Bhupendrasinh Chudasama.
 
 The fee regulation bill was cleared in the state assembly on March 30. 
 
 In provisions of the new Act, the government has fixed a cap of Rs 15,000 for annual fees of primary schools; Rs 25,000 for annual fees of secondary schools and Rs 27,000 for yearly fees of higher secondary schools. 
 
 The fee structure will be implemented in more than 12,000 schools of state, central and even international boards across Gujarat, benefiting over 10 lakh students. 
 
 Schools seeking higher fee structures, will have to approach the Fee Regulation Committee (FRC) headed by retired a district-level judge and justify their demands on basis of a number of parameters including location, investment in infrastructure, excess funds from NRIs, number of students, salaries paid to teachers, and reasonable revenue surplus etc.
 
 Chudasama said, “The governor has given his consent for the bill and the government is now forming the required rules for the implementing the Act. We will form the rules by mid April after discussing them with chief minister Vijay Rupani and the deputy CM, Nitin Patel.”
 
 “Schools that have already charged excess fees for the current academic year will have to either reimburse the amount, or set it off against fees for the next quarter,” Chudasama added.
 
 The minister said that parents are advised to have faith as the bill will be implemented in its true form. He said that rules for appointment of members of the committee are being formed and the committee will soon start functioning. 
 
 A main redressal committee headed by a retired high court judge will be formed to hear appeals against fee structures fixed by the Fee Regulatory Committee, added the minister.
 
 
