GURUGRAM: The Delhi high court has directed the provisional liquidator to file replies on the amended revival schemes filed by customer associations as well as promoter  , in the case against the promoter regarding two of its projects — the commercial Spire Edge project in Manesar and the group housing   in Gurgaon’s Sector 103. 

 This will raise hopes of the over 1,700 people who have invested in the projects.
 
 While hearing the case on May 9, Justice Siddharth Mridul also took note of allegations of financial irregularities, and asked the promoter why the court should not start investigation by the serious fraud investigation office (SFIO), into the company’s finances. 
 
 The court observation came after advocate  , representing customer associations of the two projects (FOSECA and SWBA), argued in favour of appointment of the SFIO. Sethi led the court through various instances of siphoning by firms related to the promoters, and of misappropriation from the company account. “The way the company went under liquidation also raises several questions,” said Vikas Sethi of FOSECA.
 
 Justice Mridul raised several questions regarding the companies finances. Advocate Vivek Kohli, representing the developer, argued that SFIO inquiry would further delay the project’s revival. Rejecting this argument, the court gave the company three weeks to file its reply on the questions raised in court.
 
 Denying any irregularities, the developer’s representative said they have submitted a revival plan with the intention of completing the project. “We’re trying to revive the company and complete the project, to ensure people who have invested in it get their homes,” he said.
 
 Investor Priti Nath said home buyers have full faith in the judiciary, and will accept any order it gives. “Our prime concern is the project gets completed. We hope to move towards project revival,” said Nath.
 
 The Delhi high court, vide its order dated March 8, 2016, had ordered liquidation of the company. Following this, buyers and developer approached the court to present two different revival schemes. The high court will take a call on these on the basis of replies filed by the provisional liquidator, in the next hearing scheduled for July 6.
 
 
