
Composer   and   have come together once again for Imtiaz Ali’s 'Jab Harry Met Sejal', and created another enjoyable album with a mix of a slow romantic song ('Hawayein'), a celebratory Punjabi number ('Butterfly'), a thought-provoking track ('Safar'), a club song ('Beech Beech Mein') and a groovy fun number ('Radha'). 
 
 The first song, 'Hawayein', is the quintessential romantic number and easily one of the best ones in the album. This breezy track showcases Arijit Singh’s vocal prowess and is not very different from what he usually does with songs of this genre. After watching the video, we are reminded once more, that   is the king of romance. The song stays with you long after you switch off. 
 
 'Butterfly', a high-octane track with reverberating, fast beats is the mandatory Punjabi dance song that is a signature of an   movie. Rendered by Dev Negi, Aaman Trikha, Sunidhi Chauhan and the Nooran sisters, the soundscape stays true to the desi vibe and peppy feel that the song effortlessly evokes. The sheer energy of the singers is contagious in this entertaining number. The song sees SRK in a turban and showcases the Harinder side of his character, Harry.
 
 'Safar', the third track in the album encapsulates the movie and the journey of the tour guide Harry, through lyricist Irshad’s poetic expressions. Arijit’s rendition of 'Safar ka hi tha main, safar ka raha' is a little hatke from his usual style of singing. With minimal background music, the lyrics and the vocals are the hero of this track. 
 
 The next one, 'Beech Beech Mein' by Arijit, Shalmali Kholgade, Shefali Alvares and Pritam is a club song with fun lyrics like 'Sur lag jata hai mera, tumhare wala, beech beech mein'. However, this does not fulfil what it claims to be — the party number of the season. 
 
 'Radha', the last song in the album, was actually the first song to be released and garnered a lot of love on social media in the past few days. 
 There is some brilliant singing by the evergreen Sunidhi. The youthful, sprightly track has Shahid Mallya and Pritam rendering the powerful, high-pitched mukhda. 
 
 In all, this is an album which captures the usual genres that characterises a typical Bollywood film, well enough.
 
 
 
 
