LONDON:  's defence team submitted its evidence in his extradition case, which includes names of some of their key witnesses. The Westminster magistrates' court here set November 20 as the date for the pre-trial hearing in the tycoon's case for defaulting on loans to banks amounting to Rs 9,000 crore. 

 Ben Watson, acting for Mallya, told the court "things remain on track" for the two-week trial to start on December 04.
 
 "We were served the positioning statement from the government of India at the end of July and we have served the defence statement. This includes statements from experts that include airline expert Dr Humphreys, a political expert, a banking expert, an Indian legal expert, a professor and a Dr Alan Mitchell," he said.
 
 Mallya, 61, a British resident since 1992, who lives in a multi-million pound mansion in Tewin, was not present in court. He had fled to Hertfordshire in the UK in March 2016 after a consortium of 17 banks in India moved the Supreme Court to prevent him from leaving, accusing him of defaulting on loans worth more than 9,000 crore given to his loss-making Kingfisher Airlines. 
 
 The CBI filed its charge sheet in January 2017. Mallya’s passport was cancelled by India last year after he entered the UK. He was arrested in London on an extradition warrant on April 18. The Enforcement Directorate team visited London in July to submit a money laundering chargesheet against the liquor baron. 
 
 At Thursday’s hearing, Chief magistrate Emma Arbuthnot said she had received the defence submissions on Wednesday but had not read them yet. Mark Summers Q C, representing the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) on behalf of the Government of India, said he had also submitted his detailed review of the CPS case. A pre-trial hearing was fixed for November 20. Mallya has been granted conditional bail until then. 
 
 If the district judge decides Mallya should be extradited, the judge must send the case to the Secretary of State. If there are no factors preventing extradition, the it must order extradition within two months of the referral. India and UK have an Extradition Treaty, signed in 1992, but only one successful extradition has taken place.
 
