SHAHANSHAPUR (VARANASI): On one of the narrow gangways on National Highway 2 connecting Varanasi and Mirzapur, a herd of rare indigenous cattle breed ­ the   (by the banks of the Ganga) -is feeding on a mix of hay , grain and soy in a cattle rearing unit in Shahanshapur village, that was once part of the Mughal empire.

 The village got its name after  , whose rule continued over this village until Mughal emperors captured it along with the   and used the re gion for 'shikar' (hunting animals). Now, a slew of monstrous JCBs and roadrollers, and dairy workers and masons are on the job to quickly finish ancillary construction around the cattle rearing unit that has remained ignored since 1949.
 
 When Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrives in his Lok Sabha constituency Var anasi later this week, he will inaugurate this unit here -India's first flagship research centre that will solely focus on breeding of the Gangatiri cattle. This is part of the Rs 1,800-crore worth projects he will get to Varanasi. Modi will be in Varanasi on September 22 and 23. Gangatiri is a dual-pur pose cattle breed, found on the tracts between Ganga and Ghaghra rivers, known as the Duaba belt in  .
 
 It is the only desi cow breed that gives a milk yield of 8-10 litres in summer when other cattle fail to deliver. It is also the only breed that is reared on low or zero input system by farmers, according to a research undertaken by the National Bureau of Animal Genetic Research in Karnal, after a push from the prime minister's office (PMO).
 
 The R&D project took wings in 2015 after the PMO found the cattle's significant presence in Varanasi and neighbourhood areas on the banks of the Ganga as well as virtues of low rate of reproductive and productive diseases as well high ecto and endo-parasitic resistance.
 
 “Gangatiri cattle rearing is not just a practice but a part of tradition that passes from generation to generation for livelihood. So, keeping this in view, performance and profitability of rearing of Gangatiri cattle was studied,“ said PK  , researcher at the institute in Karnal, whose research on this breed was published in International Journal of Livestock Research in March this year.
 
 While Rs 4.5 crore annually has already been sanc tioned for the Shahanshapur centre, the total expenditure on the project may exceed Rs 35 crore in next three years.
 
 At present, there are 337 Gangatiri cows in Shahanshapur. A separate male calf rearing centre, adult cow rearing centre, dispensary and milk collection unit have been established as well.
 
 The UP government is now in the process to popularise the breed among farmers, considering its performance and profitability.
 
 “Another important fact about this breed is that it's milk is one of the well accepted sources of animal protein for vegetarian population of this region and can play a key role in combating problems with nutritional deficiency in society,“ said Varanasi chief veterinary officer VV Singh.
 
 The veterinary department said that it would not mind extolling the popular religious beliefs related to the cattle.
 
 “In Hindu mythology, it's the desi breed of cattle and their yield that have kept the gods and goddesses happy. So we should promote this breed,“ Singh added.
 
 The Varanasi administration said that the five-year plan mandates focus on region specific livestock production systems to ensure uniform and higher growth rates which lead to a stable and sustainable rural developmt.
 
