BENGALURU: For Mahantesh Ghativaappa Kivadasannavar, who lost his vision when he was just six months old, cricket was a game changer all through his life, literally. He clung to his childhood passion and went on to captain the Indian team for the blind and tour England in 1996.

 Mahantesh founded the Samarthanam Trust for the Disabled, which, has now assumed control of   in India. It is organizing this year’s T20 World Cup cricket tournament under the aegis of the   (CABI). With cricketer   as the brand ambassador, the two-week tournament featuring teams from across the world will be inaugurated on January 29.
 
 Mahantesh, who lost his vision after a bout of typhoid, joined   for the Blind for his primary education and that changed things for the better. Listening to stories of cricket legends and live commentary on radio ignited his passion. Soon he started wielding a cricket bat and persuaded his school to hire a coach. “It (cricket) always stayed with me. I can connect to everything in cricket, anything and everything from and through cricket,” says Mahantesh. 
 
 Despite having a Masters degree and an M.Phil from  , his focus was helping the disabled. His primary goal was to ensure a level playing field, where they are not held back by their physical problems. He believed that right guidance will help the visually challenged also contribute to society. Mahantesh started the Samarthanam Trust in 1997 with two of his friends with an aim to cater to the needs of the lesser abled and the underprivileged. The initiatives range from education, livelihood, environment, health and nutrition, sports, culture and rehabilitation. 
 
 Sports and cultural activities are an indispensable part of Samarthanam. The Trust identifies and builds upon each child’s unique abilities, skills and interests. Samarthanam’s team was felicitated by the Indian President in 2012 for winning the T-20 Cricket World Cup for the Blind.
 
 Since 2011, Samarthanam has set up state boards in 24 states.
 
 “Several state governments have supported us and this World Cup is a huge effort. It’s happening in multiple places, involving many stakeholders, governments, corporates and passionate individuals. This is a big sensitizer. BCCI and crickers, including Rahul Dravid, Dilip Vengsarkar, Virat Kohli, Ajinkya Rahane, Ashish Nehra among others have endorsed it,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 Funding these tournaments has always been an uphill task. However, the pros of helping the visually impaired discover their true worth through the game outweigh the cons, he says. 
 
 According to Mahantesh, being mobile is a huge challenge for the visually challenged. “By asking them to push themselves in the field and throw themselves in catching the ball or chasing the ball, aim at the wicket and hitting the ball, sensing the direction when you throw, chase the score, defend the score, focus towards winning, accept defeat ----all these help them build qualities like determination, sportsman spirit, team work and leadership. Cricket transforms lives. It is beyond commercial implications,” he adds.
 
 The Trust is implementing various programmes across Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand for the empowerment of the disabled.
 
 
 
 
 Prakash Jayaramaiah, vice captain and opening batsman of the Indian blind team, said despite not finishing his schooling, he was able to accomplish a lot more due to the opportunities he was given.
 
 “Mahantesh went ahead to better the status of cricket at a time when people did not even care about blind cricket. He built a team and was able to host a huge tournament like the world cup twice. Thanks to him, we have gotten the chance to travel to many countries. I had thought my life would remain unchanged after I lost my eyesight but he helped realize the dreams I had after listening to the cricket commentary on radio,” said Jayaramaiah, whose many accomplishments include hitting a world record century off 28 balls. 
 
 
