LUCKNOW: Backing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s move to curb black money, the ‘Flying Sikh’,   on Friday said, “I know demonetisation has been criticised by many and people have faced problems, but the future generations will reap its benefit. There are two other things I like about our PM. First, he extends a ‘hand of friendship’ to whichever country he goes, be it China or Pakistan; and second, he wants to end poverty. He dreams that every poor should have a house and every educated youth should get employment.” 

 Addressing young audience in a jam-packed hall at Kunwar Global School, Singh regretted that the country couldn’t produce another Milkha Singh. “I hear a lot about Milkha Singh in all functions I attend. But it’s been 60 years when Milkha last ran. Since then, in a population of 130 crore, another Milkha Singh could not be born. I am deeply hurt and saddened by this,” Singh said, adding, “I distinctly remember that before 1960 Rome Olympics, I ran a total 80 races, and won 77, which is a record.” 
 
 On his last wish, Singh said, “When I was running at Rome Olympics, every one in the world was confident that it’s India’s Milkha Singh who will win 400 metres. But I lost that gold medal, I couldn’t see the Indian tri-colour being raised, and the national anthem being played. I want to see another Milkha Singh doing what I couldn’t.” 
 
 Crediting the Indian Army for making him a sporting icon, Singh said, “I didn’t know what Olympic games, Asian games, 400 metres, 100 metres was. If I hadn’t joined the Army, no one would have known Milkha Singh’s name.” 
 
 Singh had a piece of advice. “Hard work, will power, discipline can make any one fly high,” Singh said, exemplifying US President  . “His (Obama) grandfather was a cook in the Army. His father used to graze cattle. He fought against all odds and led a powerful nation,” said Singh. With moist eyes, he continued, “When he (Obama) came to India, he said he knew only three people here. And the first name he took was Milkha Singh, followed by   and Mary Kom. And he said, these people have made their country proud.” 
 
 In another exemplary, Singh talked about Colonel Rajyavardhan Rathore who won a silver medal in shooting in Olympics. “Why isn’t he (Rathore) made the sports in charge of the country? He knows how to provide training and make world class sportsmen. I am not against our sports minister, but people who are fit for a particular work should be employed for it and then the results will be visible. In future, we won’t get players like him,” Singh said. 
 
 Venting his anger on the coaches, Singh said they should be on contract basis. “If P Gopichand can deliver results, there are 50,000 coaches in India. Why aren’t they able to deliver results? We need dedicated coaches who are determined to get medals for India,” said Singh. 
 
 1. ‘My wife is my first trophy’
 
 I may have won umpteen medals and trophies, but my first trophy is my wife. She is the one who stays with me in all circumstances, Milkha Singh said. 
 
 2. UP should have an Athletic Academy
 
 UP is home to a player like KD Singh Babu. We were together in 1955-56 Olympics when he was the captain of Indian hockey team. Since Milkha Singh has come to UP, I request Akhilesh to set up an Athletic Academy in the state. “There is no paucity of funds. Hunt for talented kids. Keep them in this academy and bear their lodging, fooding expenses and training. There will be 10 more Milkha Singhs. What is needed is courage. I know Akhilesh is doing a good job and he should continue with it,” said Singh. 
 
 3. Next Biopic should be on PT Usha 
 
 After biopics on Indian athlete Milkha Singh, Indian cricketer MS Dhoni and wrestlers Geeta and Babita, popularly known as ‘Phogat sisters’, the Flying Sikh says a biopic should be made on Indian track and field athlete PT Usha. “She comes from an economically and socially weaker family. A hard working sports person, Usha’s story deserves to be on the curtains,” said Singh. 
 
 4. Re 1 for sharing my story with Rakesh Mehra
 
 There were many directors who came to know my story. But my son, Jeev Milkha Singh was adamant to give the story to Rakesh Mehra. When I asked him why, Jeev said, “I watch one movie everyday after I return back from play, and that is  . We also decided to accept only Re 1 for the story. After the movie, the young generations who were ignorant of Milkha Singh now stands up for him.”
 
