BENGALURU: The   has chosen 9 of the 410 proposals it received for the grant of its fellowship programme for 2017. Among the awardees are a history professor from IIT Guwahati, a Supreme Court lawyer, an ecologist, a pioneering publisher, and some renowned journalists --- each of whom were selected through a three-tier selection process.

 The awardees are Arupjyoti Saikia, Professor in History, department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT, Guwahati, (history of post-partition Assam); Manoj Mitta, former senior editor of TOI (research on emancipation of dalits and the bloody reaction that followed); Nachiket Kelkar (Dark Reflections: Field notes on people and ecology in Bihar’s Gangetic floodplains); Gautam Bhatia, a Supreme Court lawyer (The Transformative Constitution); Abhishek Choudhary (biography of Atal Behari Vajpayee); Nazia Akhtar (Hyderabadi Women: Representations and representative politics in Urdu literature); Kanato Chophy (study on the influence of Baptist faith in the culture of Nagaland); S Anand (Babasaheb: The many lives of Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar) and Neha Dixit (study of women in India's informal sector).
 
 The New India Foundation was set up to promote research on the culture and history of post-Independence India. 
 
  “This history traverses the complex and contested terrains of culture, caste, religion, politics and more; yet there are not enough systematic historical and biographical studies beyond the attainment of independence. The New India Foundation endeavours to bridge that gap and inspire the next generation of social scientists and writers,” says  , managing trustee of the foundation. 
 
 The fellowships are awarded for a year and carry a monthly stipend of Rs 1 lakh. By the end of the year, the fellowship holders are expected to publish original works that are an extension of their proposals. 
 
 It doesn't always happen that way, acknowledges Guha. “Each book has its own rhythm. And 25% of these books don't get written at all.” 
 
 But Guha is happy with that figure, as he expected it to be much higher.
 
 Guha also agrees that most of the people who have been awarded fellowships have either been academicians, journalists, social workers or environmentalists. “We have had examples of the same person whose original proposal was rejected, but the second proposal turned out to be a great success --- Akshaya Mukul’s history of the Gita Press. And there are also examples of proposals that were initially rejected but were later accepted --- Venu Madhav Govindu’s biography of J C Kumarappa,” he adds.
 
