CHENNAI: Not just school buses, even government buses ferrying school children must conform to guidelines on student safety, the Madras high court said on Monday. However, the court said it is enough for school vehicles to undergo inspection once in six months instead of once in three months.

 “We direct the state government to look into the issue and, if possible, issue necessary guidelines, and take care of the safety of the children travelling even in government buses,” said the first bench of Acting Chief Justice Huluvadi G Ramesh and Justice RMT Teekaa Raman.
 
 The modifications were made after it was submitted on behalf of the   Nursery, Primary, Matriculation and Higher Secondary Schools Association, which wanted two specific provisions in the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Regulation and Control of School Buses) Special Rules, 2012 quashed.
 
 As per Rule 5(2), an attendant must be not less than 21 years of age and not more than 50 years of age, and he should be medically fit to get down from the school   at each stopping point to facilitate the embarkation of school children. The Rule 8(2) Clause(III) says school bus must be inspected by special cell once in three months, though the requirement is only once in three years for other buses.
 
 While relaxing the inspection norms by holding that it is enough if the special cell inspects school vehicles once every six months, and not every three months as stipulated in Rule 5(2), the bench refused to take a relook into the age restriction for vehicle attendants.
 
 Rejecting the arguments of counsel for private schools that restricting the maximum age of the attendants to 50 years is not acceptable, the judges said: “We do not find any merit in the above submission of the petitioner’s counsels. In case of emergency situation, the attendant should have physical ability to lift and carry small children through the emergency exit to the ground from outside the bus. We hold that the committee constituted in the above regard after thorough examination and also in the light of the decisions of the apex court has correctly framed Rule 5(2).”
 
 The issue of safety measures in school buses became a subject matter of a suo motu PIL proceedings, after the Madras high court took note of the death of S Shruthi, who died after slipping through a gaping hole on the floor of her school bus in Chennai. Following court rulings, the state government framed the impugned rules putting in place effective safety measures to be taken by those operating school vehicles.
 
 
