THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: For better or worse, the LDF government in   has become synonymous with  . His critics call him an autocrat and within his own party, they fear it's the beginning of 'a cult of personality'. But if a considerable cross-section of the thinking public is to be believed, the chief minister's one-man show is not necessarily a bad thing. From the day the Left ministry was sworn in a year ago, its   was the new CM and his perceived qualities- no-nonsense, non-doctrinaire and a natural organiser with administrative acumen, one who surrounded himself with domain experts but who kept his own counsel. In short, a CM who acts as a virtual CEO.

 With Pinarayi at the helm, the new regime's airy campaign slogan 'LDF varum, ellaam sheriyavum' didn't seem so airy after all. That was a year ago.
 
 
  , a TOI-IPSOS survey reveals that while the public is not satisfied with the overall performance of the Pinarayi Vijayan government, the chief minister's own stock has gone up considerably .
 
 On the performance front, the government has scored 5.8 out of 10 and even if rounded off to a charitable six points, it's an average show, good but not good enough and certainly nowhere near what was expected.
 
 Just 23% of those polled believe that it has become safer for women ­ a major LDF poll plank ­ while only a modest 30% say that employment generation has improved. Considering how mired the UDF government was in scandals and graft, especially towards the end of its tenure, the LDF government seems infinitely better.
 
 But here too, the survey shows that only 46% believe the Pinarayi government has done enough in cracking down on corruption. As for dousing the fires in Kannur, 43% say the government has not done enough, while another 9% are not sure. Incidentally, on almost all questions raised in the survey, the 'yes-vote' for the LDF government has not crossed 50%.
 
 Interestingly, however, this has not dented Pinarayi's ratings. Among respondents in the survey, 44% said they didn't think the CM was an autocrat and significantly, this comprised all voters apart from the 36-50 age group, a group that often has set views on a leader.
 
 Again, while Pinarayi trails V S Achuthanandan in the category 'best CM', he has overtaken the once very popular Oommen Chandy. That's some transition for a man many wrote off as a grumpy Stalinist.
 
 Opposition scores a decent 5|10
 
 The opposition has scored 5 on a 10-point scale for its performance in the first year of the LDF government. The liveliness of the UDF in exposing the flaws of the government seems to have given it a decent score. Respondents aged 36-50 gave the maximum points to the opposition while youngsters, aged 18-35, found it wanting. Urban voters also found the opposition performance decent, giving it a score of 5.3.
 
  wins support
 
 The four missions (Nava Kerala Mission) initiated by the Pinarayi Vijayan government to address problems in key sectors of health, education, agriculture and housing have received an overwhelming support. Around 59% respondents in the TOI-IPSOS survey said these missions are necessary to achieve the promises made by the LDF in its manifesto.
 
