NAGPUR: The lethal striking combination of   and   guided   (NAFC) to 1-0 victory over   ( ) on Monday. With the win in their last Super-Six game,   moved into the semifinal of the NDFA Elite Division League.

 Up against the defending champions, NAFC managed to keep the game evenly poised for almost one-third duration of the match. With both the teams sharing the honours till the 64th minute, the pair Sazi-Haque pair tilted the game in favour of NAFC with their superb tango.
 
 After the NAFC defense foiling an YMFC attempt, Blesson took the possession at the centre line and engineered a superb counter-attack. With just a few rival players around him, Blesson carried the ball into the rival half.
 
 Displaying good control, Blesson dodged past three YMFC defenders on his way to the rival goal post. YMFC goalkeeper Abdullah Ansari tried to block him but Blesson foxed him as well. He later passed the ball to unmarked Sohail, who tapped it in to make it 1-0.
 
 The hard work of Blesson and Haque helped NAFC topple YMFC from the top of the table. NAFC now are on top with seven points while YMFC are second with six. Rahul Sankrutyayan Sporting Club, with five points, are placed third.
 
 The fourth semifinal spot will be decided after South Eastern Central Railway (SECR) play Big Ben on Tuesday. A win will give SECR the fourth place and a semis berth. But a draw or a win for Big Ben will open the semifinal doors for Nagpur Football Club.
 
 After Haque gave NAFC the lead, desperation started to build in the YMFC camp. As they tried too hard, YMFC players committed many mistakes. Their striker Cletus Paul, who plays for Mumbai FC in I-League, was excellent at front. Yet, none of his moves were converted into goal.
 
 Paul’s finely crafted cross pass from the left wing in 75th minute, saw the other striker Mohd Sujahat score an equalizer only to be ruled off-side. The disallowed goal all but took the fight out of YMFC camp. As soon as assistant referee Vinod Tiwari signaled off-side, almost half of the YMFC side went down on their knee in despair.
 
 Within four minutes of the off-side, Cletus once again planted a ball precisely in the box off a flag-kick. The ball flew sharply and Faizan Akhtar headed it towards the goal but it missed the net by a whisker.
 
 NAFC’s Rohit Kanojiya and Rauf Khan did a fabulous job in the midfield and ensured the possession stays with them after Sohail scored the solitary goal.
 
 
