NEW DELHI: The state election commission ( ) has appointed officials to carry out the remaining pre-election work post-delimitation and it is expected to be complete by March 17. The delimitation of municipal wards was notified on January 17.

 The pre-election work — including reassigning of polling booths, demarcation and informing residents about the changes — will be done by 72 returning officers (RO), 272 assistant returning officers (ARO) and 11 district election officers (DEO).
 
 A preliminary training session was done with the ROs to clarify their doubts and explain them the standard procedure. “There are 68 assembly constituencies. One RO has been assigned for constituencies having up to five wards. Four constituencies with more than 5 wards will have two ROs each,” said state election commissioner SK  .
 
 “AROs will be responsible for informing people about the changes in their polling booths and DEOs will supervise both the ROs and AROs at the zonal level,” he added.
 
 Post-delimitation, the contours of municipal wards have changed drastically. For instance, if a ward had 10 polling booths earlier, there are chances that after delimitation a few booths may have either shifted to the neighbouring wards or new booths might have been added to it. Officials will have to map them all.
 
 “After the mapping work, a special drive will be conducted after March 17 to inform residents about their newly-assigned polling booths. We have called a meeting with the three municipal commissioners on Wednesday to give them instructions about the pre-election work,” Srivastava added.
 
 Around 13,000 electronic voting machines (EVM) have arrived from Rajasthan. In all, around 16,000 EVMs will be required for the municipal polls. “There are 13,100 polling stations as of now and chances are that a few more will be added. We have 3,000 EVMs with us, apart from the 13,000 that have come from  ,” said the commissioner.
 
 “We will check these machines and keep 3,000 EVMs in reserve during the polls. We have created a website that will have the details of the 65,000 officials who will be appointed for election duty,” Srivastava said.
 
 Though objections pertaining to the naming of wards are still pouring in at the SEC office, Srivastava said nothing can be changed now as the final notification has been released. 
 
