Visakhapatnam: Garividi in   district will soon have AP’s fifth and north coastal region’s first veterinary science college. The project is to cost around Rs 81.72 crore.

 Among the four veterinary science colleges in AP, two are in  , while   and Proddatur have one each. In June last year, Sri   (SVVU), Tirupati, had submitted a proposal to the animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries department to set up a   in Vizianagaram following which the department forwarded the proposal to the finance wing of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard). 
 
 Nabard has sanctioned the project cost in which it has a share of Rs 66.49 crore and the state government will spend Rs 15.23 crore.
 
 The state government recently accorded administrative sanction for contributing its share to the project on a priority basis and instructed the comptroller of SVVU to take necessary action for speedy completion of the project. The government has also accorded permission to entrust the civil works of the project to   as executive agency.
 
 The corporation will carry out the works in four categories — construction of college and administrative building with Rs 41.92 crore, construction of teaching veterinary clinical complex with Rs 14.48 crore, construction of accommodation block to under graduate (boys) at the college with Rs 12.66 crore and construction of accommodation block for girls with Rs 12.66 crore.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) veterinary officer S Jayaram said the veterinary science college is essential in the north coastal belt for future prospects in the field. “The younger generation is showing less priority to the veterinary field due to many reasons including lack of authorised institutions,” he added.
 
 A senior veterinary officer from the animal husbandry department said veterinary science is being practised in the country from as early as the Vedic period and the world`s first veterinary hospital was in Ashoka’s regime. The first veterinary clinic was established in Bombay in 1884, the officer added.
 
 “India has the largest livestock population in the world and contributes nearly 8 per cent of the GDP. If sufficient infrastructure is provided for manpower generation, the field can contribute more to the GDP growth,” the officer added.
 
