New Delhi: A day after Delhi high court ordered a crackdown on illegal parking in Greater Kailash I, the   made an attempt of sorts to remove cars parked in double rows on public roads and pavements there, but eventually decided that a proper solution could be found only after a detailed survey of the locality. 

 According to the traffic cops, more than 10,000 vehicles are parked on the Hansraj Gupta Marg, which is lined with commercial establishments, including banks, guesthouses and even playschools. “There needs to be optional parking space for vehicles halting here,” said a police officer on Thursday. Police decided, therefore, to meet resident welfare associations and trader bodies to get them to agree on alternative parking spaces before starting a drive against illegal parking.
 
 However, the cops also admitted that there aren’t enough personnel for deployment on the stretch throughout the day to keep an eye on the illegal parking. 
 
 According to S Block resident Sarabjit Sodhi, the footpaths along Hansraj Gupta Marg are almost always occupied by the cars of people visiting the clinics and guesthouses along the  . “As residents, we do not get parking space and are forced to keep our cars on the road. So when the traffic cops crack down on illegal parking, they remove our cars first but allow the real violators to escape,” Sodhi said. The authorities should have thought of parking when allowing the commercial complexes to come up in the area, he added.
 
 While the cops plans to meet the stakeholders on the matter, the residents of adjacent colonies and the traders, however, are explicit that clearing the roads of the chaos demands expeditious construction of multilevel parking lots at the two markets here.
 
 Rajender Sharda of the Greater Kailash-I M Block Market Association, who is also a member of the residents’ welfare association, expressed dissatisfaction at the fact that as far back as five years ago, a plan to construct a multilevel car park at M Block market had been proposed, but it was “still under consideration till date”. He pointed out that the market accounted for more than a third of the traffic in Greater Kailash. 
 
 Sharda added, “These days, problems also arise because app-based cab operators park their cars near the market because it is a convenient and prominent spot. We have requested the traffic cops several times to stop taxis from using the roads here for parking. But it is only when a traffic policeman is posted close by that the cabs vanish.” 
 
 
