HYDERABAD: Hyderabad seems to have stolen a march on Bengaluru (no surprises, it keeps happening!) as the city is all set to roll out the red carpet for the Grammy-winning musician   after police refused permission for his concert on Thursday. Incidentally, the French DJ could not perform in Mumbai as scheduled on Friday after Mumbai police refused to host the show.

 The ever-active Telangana government has made sure that no such last-minute glitches happen and it’s eager to welcome the popular musician.
 
 The Cyberabad police, through a tweet, extended a warm welcome to Guetta and also rubbed it in, adding that they were committed to ensuring a glitch-free event. The Bengaluru police had officially claimed that the permission was cancelled for the Bengaluru concert as their personnel were deployed to ensure an incident-free   ( APMC) elections. But the event organisers had posted on social media that the permission was denied in wake of the recent mass molestation incidents on New Year’s Eve in the city and other incidents of women being targeted in the city.
 
 “Welcome to Hyderabad @davidguetta. Look forward to host you tomorrow (sic) @ Cyberabadpolice committed to ensure a glitch free event as always,”Tweeted the official handle of Cyberabad police on Friday.
 
  
  
 Bengaluru Rural police had earlier stated that because of the APMC elections they were not in a position to spare enough police personnel to ensure security at the concert that was expected to have a crowd of at least 15,000 fans in attendance. Event managers finally had to remove their initial post and repost that the concert was cancelled because the schedule clashed with the elections. Guetta was slated to perform at   in Yelahanka. This is not the first time, Hyderabad managed to leave Bengaluru red-faced as recently it emerged as the most preferred destination for global business and investments, courtesy , its robust and aggressive pitch to place themselves on the world map. Telengana policy makers even made it a point to specifically promote its initiatives like the 15-day window period for granting new business license. Some of the global giants like  , Google, Microsoft, Amazon,   and Ikea have sidestepped Bengaluru and settled for Hyderabad. Karnataka slipped from its earlier ranking of nine to 13 on the list.
 
