CHENNAI: Paving the way for return of several thousand acres of pristine forest land under the erstwhile Gudalur Janmam Estates in the Nilgiris, the Madras high court has rapped a settlement officer for receiving applications from occupants beyond the deadline, and asked authorities to dispose of claims within the next three to six months. 

 Justice P N   directed the tribunal to dispose of appeals within three months. With regard to one claimant alone, the settlement officer of Gudalur would dispose of the case within six months.
 
 Referring to submissions of  , additional government pleader (forests), that about 300 cases were still under consideration on the file of the tribunal and that the encroachers, taking advantage of the pendency of the litigations, are blatantly usurping the forest lands, Justice P N Prakash modified the status of land in respect of ryotwari patta-holders, and said the settlement officer or the tribunal must decide the cases on merits.
 
 The bench also took note of Santhanaraman's submission that as a result of blatant encroachment of forest lands, besides serious threat to ecology, there had been an increase in incidents of man-animal conflicts. In the year 2016 alone, 12 people were killed by elephants, and two were killed by a tiger, which authorities later gunned down.
 
 In its notification on the Janmam estate issue, the government had declared 80,087 acres as Janmam lands, out of which settlement has been finalised for 28,087 acres. The balance of 52,000 acres was found to be forest land, out of which 17,014 acres of land have been declared as forest land.
 
 Rule 25 very clearly lays down that no application whatsoever can be entertained after the period of limitation fixed under the   (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1969. Citing this, Justice Prakash said: "Oblivious of this provision, applications are submitted to the settlement officer on the sweet will of the applicant and writ petitions are filed before this court seeking innocuous directions to the settlement officer to consider and pass orders. Confronted with such orders, the settlement officer is forced to entertain applications and give a new cause of action and appellate remedies for kite flyers and legal adventurers."
 
 
