NEW DELHI: India's captain   was, not surprisingly, named Man of the Match for his record-setting 204 which helped set up a 208-run win over Bangladesh in the one-off Test in Hyderabad. 

 On that note, here's a quick recap of Kohli's four 200s in Test cricket, which have all come in the past six months. 
 
 
 
 
 In his first Test match in charge in the West Indies, Kohli achieved the distinction of reaching 200 for the first time in Tests. It was an effort that set the base for India's total of 566/8 which helped ensure an innings victory. After two early wickets, Kohli put on 105 for the third wicket with   (84) and then 168 for the fifth with R Ashwin (113). Watching India's Test captain drive and pull his way to a maiden double-century at the stadium at North Sound named after him, Sir   described the innings as classy and proof that Kohli was on the rise towards greatness. 
 
 
 
 
 Fans at Indore's  , in the city's first ever Test match, were treated to a masterclass from Kohli and Rahane who put on 365 in 112 overs, a stand that formed the bedrock of India's first innings total of 557/5 declared. This was Kohli at his best: unhurried, in control and dripping finesse. In scoring 211, he became the first Indian Test captain to make two double-hundreds. Rahane, who overcame plenty of struggles against the short ball, went on to a Test-best 188. 
 
 
 
 
 It took something special to outdo his 167 and 81 in the previous match, but Kohli was at the forefront of India' remarkable win at the  , scoring an epic 235 - the highest score by an Indian captain - on a tough surface. This was Kohli's best Test innings, and it came on a tough surface. To see him sprint singles after more than eight hours of batting was something else. 
 
 
 
 
 Right from his first delivery faced - literally, for it was cut away for four - Kohli was at ease, perhaps like never before in a Test. Which, one can surmise, can happen when you're in a rich vein of form like this, with scores of 211, 167, 81, 62 and 235 among your last six Tests, of which you've not lost a single one. Kohli finished day one on 111, and on the second morning attacked Bangladesh fast bowler   who was hit for 38 runs in his five overs, to move to 150. Thereon, Kohli hardly broke a sweat as he made history. With this 204, Kohli went past Don Bradman and   as the first cricketer to score four double-centuries in four straight series, and past   as the scorer of the most runs in a Test season.
 
