GURUGRAM: In the post-demonetisation era,   in South City-1 has come under fire for asking parents to deposit   and uniforms for the new session only in cash. Parents have received a mail from the school which reads, “This is to inform you that the payment for the books and uniform will be accepted only in cash. The tentative amount for both will be between Rs 8,000-Rs 9,000.”

 Angry parents spoke to TOI on the condition of anonymity and expressed concerns about arbitrary minting of money by private schools. The parents also questioned the wisdom behind such a directive at a time when the government is urging the country to move towards a cashless economy.
 
 “How can the school ask us to deposit so much of money in one single instalment in cash,” asked a parent, who did not wish to be named. “Isn’t the government promoting the mantra of a cashless economy? How does it hope to meet that end when you have these greedy private schools milking cash from parents under one pretext or the other?”
 
 Another parent also echoed similar concerns that the school was minting money for items which could have been purchased elsewhere at a cheaper rate. “From glue sticks to pens to fancy notebooks, they hand the entire package to us at such exorbitant rates,” said a parent.
 
 Educationists too were fuming at the directive. “This behaviour on part of the schools is unacceptable. It is not just one school. There are plenty of schools in Gurgaon doing the same thing,” said Sumit Vohra, founder of NursuryAdmissions.com. “My children are supposed to buy items from their schools because it has been made mandatory. It has become a new norm for private schools to make the parents pay through their noses. They have also made it compulsory for students to buy uniforms from the schools, instead of markets where the parents could get it at cheaper rates.”
 
 Vohra said since the new academic session is going to commence soon, this trend might be picked up by other schools as well.
 
 District elementary education officer (Gurgaon) Ram Kumar Phalaswal said such a move was illegal. “It is illegal to force students to buy such stuff from school. Even having such store which vends such items inside school premises is not allowed,” he said.
 
 Despite repeated attempts by TOI, the spokesperson for KR Mangalam School could not be reached for comments.
 
 
