PATNA: Election for the six Rajya Sabha and 11   falling vacant early next year is likely to intensify the compulsive drive to retain or secure more of these seats, resulting further in   with bearing on the  , observers feel.
 
  Of the six Rajya Sabha seats, four belong to the JD(U) and two to the BJP. On the other hand, of the 11 legislative council seats, six belong to the JD(U), four to the BJP and one to the RJD.
  
  CM Nitish Kumar, former CM Rabri Devi, former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and former BJP state chief Mangal Pandey are among the 11 MLCs whose terms would expire next year. Similarly, prominent among those whose respective Rajya Sabha terms would end early next year are two Union ministers, Ravi Shankar Prasad and Dharmendra Pradhan.
  
  Ravi Shankar was elected third time to the Rajya Sabha (2000, 2006 and 2012), while Pradhan, who belongs to Odisha, was elected to the House of elders for the first time on Bihar quota, as he had been the party’s general secretary and in-charge of state party affairs.
  
  Interestingly, the indications about the possible political realignments in the near future were given by Union minister and Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) national president Upendra Kushwaha on Saturday after the meeting of his party’s state office-bearers and district presidents on Saturday.
  
  “We will chalk out our strategy for the 2019 parliamentary elections at our party’s ‘chintan shivir’ at Rajgir next month,” said Kushwaha, whose RLSP is among the three NDA partners other than the BJP in the state.
  
  The three-day introspection camp of the RLSP would begin on June 14. Kushwaha also said experts from different fields, including economics and  , would give an idea about the national scene to the party workers.
  
  The party workers would also be informed about the “achchhe (good)” programmes of the NDA government at the Centre led by PM Narendra Modi, and he recalled digitalization of India and the drive for cashless economy. Kushwaha refused to speak anything either on CM Nitish, who is also the JD(U) national president, or RJD national president Lalu Prasad.
  
  The two other NDA partners are Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan and Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular headed by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi. Incidentally, one theory in the BJP is that the party should face the next parliamentary elections alone.
  
  Meanwhile, the remaining Rajya Sabha seats falling vacant early next year are of Anil Kumar Sahani, Ali Anwar, Bashishtha Narain Singh and Mahendra Prasad, all from the JD(U).
  
  Similarly, the other council seats to fall vacant are of Chandravanshi, Narendra Singh (already vacant due to his expulsion from the party), Raj Kishore Kushwaha, Sanjay Singh and Upendra Prasad from the JD(U). The remaining BJP seats are of Lal Babu Prasad and Satyendra Narayan Singh Kushwaha.
  
  
  
  
  
  
