HYDERABAD: The move to shift ‘Dharna Chowk’ the spot synonymous with   in the city, which is located adjacent to Indira Park, has gathered pace with the state government considering either Anmagal in Hayatnagar mandal close to the Vijayawada highway or land in Shamshabad mandal on the Bangalore highway for a new   Chowk.

 The proposed site at Anmagal in Hayatnagar is about 25 km from the  , the seat of government power. The location being considered at Shamshabad is about 30 km from the Secretariat.
 
 It may be recalled that the state government decided to shift Dharna Chowk to the city outskirts after the abortive bid by   ( ) to hold a rally and meeting highlighting the unemployment issue in the state. The move to shift the spot where over the years hundreds of organized as well as impromptu protests were held, was proposed citing frequent traffic disruptions and law and order problems in the area whenever a protest took place. Following this, the Ranga Reddy district administration was asked to identify land for relocating the protest site.
 
 Official sources said about five to six locations were identified as part of the exercise of shifting Dharna Chowk. Though the government asked officials to look for a 50 acres land, the largest patch of land that could be found at these locations was eight acres.
 
 “About eight acres were identified in Anmagal village in survey no 255, which is about two kilometres from the Vijayawada highway. The district administration will take a final call on this,” Hayatnagar tehsildar Ramchander said. Similarly, five acres belonging to   were found in survey nos 722 to 728 of Shamshabad mandal abutting the Bangalore highway. 
 
 However, the move to shift Dharna Chowk is being dubbed as a plan to take away the right of people to protest. “Generally after holding rallies or dharnas, representatives meet the officials concerned or ministers at the Secretariat to give representations. The protests, if held far away from the city, will never go to the notice of the government even if a protest is attended by a very large number of people,” M Srinivas, secretary of CPM city central committee said.
 
