PANAJI: Experiencing the splash of waves against his body was not only exhilarating for sixteen-year-old Dhruv Shirpurkar, but also his very first beach experience. 

 The five-day wheelchair accessible beach festival, BeachFest2017 that kicked off on the   beach on Wednesday with a special ramp leading to the beach and a floating wheelchair made this possible. 
 
 A standard 12 science student diagnosed with Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Dhruv made his maiden trip to Goa with his parents for the festival. 
 
 “Persons with disabilities stay caged indoors for long periods and it takes much time and effort to take them to explore a new place. Other children his age are having a blast while he has to depend on his parents to take him out of the house,” his mother Rupa says. If more places like beaches were made permanently accessible it would really give them a break from their daily routine and give them some dignity, she adds.
 
 Dhruv has his heart set on engineering, but it's not as simple as that. “I first need to find a wheelchair accessible college,” he tells TOI. 
 
 The inaugural day of the fest saw wheelchair users from Mumbai, Hyderabad and Goa turn up, with more from other parts of the country scheduled to arrive during the week. 
 
 Delnavaz Subawala, 25, who works at Able Disabled All People Together (ADAPT's) workshop in   making jewellery, paper bags and candles, admits she catches a cold if she goes into water, but says she will indulge in beach bowling, wheelchair cricket, kite flying, sand castle competitions and wheelchair dancing sessions during the fest. 
 
 Otherwise out of bounds for wheelchair users because they cannot be pushed over the sand, beaches feature among the many public spaces that remain inaccessible to them. 
 
 The beach fest is an example of what is possible and we hope the beach and other places too, can be made accessible all year round so that persons with disabilities can enjoy the beach together with their friends and family, said co-founder of Umoja, a travel booking website for the differently-abled, Yeshwant Holkar. It isn't only wheelchair users, but the elderly, mothers with prams and those who use walking sticks who began using the ramp that was laid last week. 
 
 Entrepreneur and disability rights activist from Mumbai, Neenu Kewlani reminded people that accessibility isn't a privilege but a right and expressed hope that Candolim would continue to remain accessible. 
 
 Writer and poet Frederika Menezes from   who has visited the beach only once in her adult life said an accessible beach is a step in the right direction. “Goa is beautiful with so many beaches. I would love to visit the beach and not have to think twice about how to get there or have to worry about how I will reach the water,” she said. 
 
 State commissioner for persons with disabilities Anuradha Joshi was present at the event and arranged for a bus to bring the elderly from two orphanages.
 
 A number of locals from Divar and Saligao also took advantage of the ramp to bring their aged parents to the beach. 
 
