Bengaluru: For the first time ever, BBMP has taken suo motu measures to weed out names of the dead from the voters’ list. The Palike made a count of dead voters from 2015 to June 2017, which boils down to 65,632 dead voters, whose names still appear on the list. That’s despite the relatives applying for death certificates of these persons, and the BBMP issuing the same. 

 The BBMP will be issuing notices to the dead person’s address to alert relatives on deletion of the person’s name from the voters’ list. Revenue officers are working on this.
 
 “We give an opportunity of hearing for natural justice. The family has to reply within a week, failing which BBMP revenue officials will conduct a mahajar (spot inspection) to confirm the death of the person, soon after which the name of the deceased is removed from the voters’ list. This is to clean up the list, which is crucial for any election,” explained BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad.
 
 “Ideally, after the death of a person, the family of the deceased has to give an application to the Palike to delete the person’s name from the voters’ list, with a copy of the death certificate. But that has not been done by the public in a majority of the cases because of which the dead still exist on the voters’ list,” said BBMP officials.
 
 Weeding out Bangla immigrants
 
 Based on media reports of the BBMP allegedly issuing voter ID cards to illegal immigrants from Bangladesh, the Palike has initiated a probe to weed out such names from the voters’ list. “We’ve learnt that there are illegal immigrants from Bangladesh living in Mahadevapura constituency near Bellandur. Until the inquiry is complete, we cannot arrive at the number of such persons,” said the commissioner.
 
 Dead voters’ count (from 2015-June 2017) is high in these constituencies
 
 CONSTITUENCY-------NO. OF DEAD
 
 Mahadevapura-------4,971
 
 Sarvagna Nagar-----3,890
 
 C V Raman Nagar---3,502
 
 Chickpet------------3,394
 
 Malleswaram----3,258
 
 (Source: BBMP)
 
 
