ROHTAK: Haryana government has let off an Ahemdabad-based firm that it blacklisted in August 2013 for using sub-standard material in the construction of Hafed godowns at  , Sirsa district. 

 The firm, against which action was taken by the then   government in the state, had caused “losses in crores” to the state ex-chequer by delaying the construction of godowns and using using sub-standard material. Haryana   Limited (Hafed) had blacklisted Nexus Infratech Private Limited, Ahmedabad, on August 1, 2013, after claiming that it had committed a “fraud” in the construction of the godowns. Though the company had contested Hafed’s decision in a Panchkula court, its plea was dismissed and fraud charge upheld by the court.
 
 Additional chief secretary (cooperation)   debarred the firm in an order dated December 16, 2016, saying that Hafed’s decision to permanently ban the company was “too harsh”.
 
 While the firm has been debarred, the godowns constructed by it are yet to be repaired, confirmed a senior officer of Hafed who did not wish to be named. The officer said it was “shocking” and “perplexing” to learn that instead of making the firm to pay for the fraud, the additional chief secretary had removed it from Hafed’s blacklist.
 
 When contacted, Hafed chairperson Harvinder Kalyan said they still had the money deposited by the company and further action would be taken for recovery of losses according to the rules. 
 
 The case dates to February 2, 2013, when Hafed had floated tenders for fixing self-supported, arch-shaped, galvalume-sheet roofing at its godowns, including at Kalanwali. Being the successful bidder, the company got the contract. However, on July 16, 2013, Hafed issued a notice for verifying the originality and thickness of the 1 mm base metal thickness (BMT) of the galvalume sheets used for the godowns.
 
 In the notice, Hafed executive engineer said the samples of colour-coated galvalume steel sheet from Kalanwali site was found to be 0.89mm instead of 1mm. Another sample for testing of the material used in roofing of the godowns at the same site was sent to a laboratory in Chandigarh, and it was found to be below specifications. “It created suspicion that these were not genuine galvalume sheets coils of   make,” it said.
 
 In its reply, the company admitted its guilt and accepted in its letter on July 22, 2013, that “wrong material” was sent to Hafed due to an “inadvertent error”.
 
 Losses mount
 
 In reply to an RTI plea, Hafed admitted that due to non-completion of the allotted task to the company, it was facing a loss of rent amounting to Rs 28 lakh per month approximately. Hafed is paying 12.75% per annum interest on the loan taken for construction of the godowns and the monthly loss totals Rs 20.27 lakh. Due to non-completion of the godowns, HAFED has to keep the grains in the open, exposing those to the vagaries of weather.
 
 
