CHENNAI: India will host the Under-17 World Cup for the first time and there will be considerable pressure on the national side. In a bid to ease some of the pressure, the   ( ) had appointed mental conditioning coach   for the Under-17 team last February soon after the then coach Nicolai Adam was shown the door.

 In the last seven months leading up to the World Cup, Savanur had worked on the teenagers’ psychology, eliminating their fears in facing major opponents and teaching them how to handle pressure and emotions among other things.
 
 “These boys are on the threshold of adulthood and their emotions are not really established at this stage. In order to understand their mentality, I had to take an approach which is different from interacting with adults. Initially, they were reluctant to open up and it took time for me to gain their trust. Slowly, they started speaking about their insecurities. They were also in a delicate state of mind after the Adam episode. So I had to be careful. I would tell them to see the bigger picture and how they can earn recognition if they do well against the bigger teams. After these sessions, they have now become a lot more pro-active,” Savanur told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Savanur was associated with the Vidarbha Ranji Trophy side for three years from 2013-16 and had worked with cricketers like Umesh Yadav, Subramaniam Badrinath and Wasim Jaffer before taking up the Under-17 assignment. Having worked closely with both cricketers and footballers, he offered an insight into the mental aspect of these players. “Cricket can be divided into two parts — reactive and set-up. For a bowler it is a set-up sport because he is bowling to a field, knows which line and length he will bowl and is in more control of proceedings. On the contrary, the batsman is reacting to situations. He doesn’t know where the next ball will come and he gets a split second’s time to play a shot. Similarly, football is a reactive sport. A footballer doesn’t know when and how he will receive the ball. He has to react fast after receiving the ball. In both scenarios, mental clarity is required to react swiftly,” Savanur said.
 
 The Pune-based Savanur said that even the hormonal cycle is same for batsmen and footballers. “Hormones are released when you are under pressure. With both the batsmen and footballers going through similar anxieties, the hormonal cycle is the same for both. In fact, a batsman can get some time off when he is at the non-striker’s end. But a footballer always has to stay focused in order to react for the entire 90 minutes,” Savanur explained.
 
 The coach also taught U-17 players ways on how they can react better. “It was during the practice matches on exposure tours that I would help the players put my methods into practice. While for some breathing exercise worked, visualizing match situations and self-talk worked for others,” he added.
 
 Luis Norton de Matos’ boys will be starting their campaign against the US on October 6. Savanur said the focus now is to help the players learn how to keep their emotions in check. “They will be playing in a World Cup in front of home crowd. So their emotions will run high. I am trying to help them to keep their emotions at controllable areas so that they can play to their full potential on the field,” Savanur said.
 
 
