For the artists of the Nepathya Foundation, a Gurgaon-based theatre group, the last performance of their play Court Martial was a rather special one. The group, which has performed the play in Gurgaon and Delhi several times, was invited by the   Governor Acharya Devvrat to perform in Shimla as his personal guests.

   , the play’s director, tells us, "The governor must have heard about our group and that we perform Court Martial, after which he sent a personal invite to me - inviting the group to perform in Shimla. It was a great honour for us, and we were a little overwhelmed because we had never undertaken a production of this magnitude. The   came to our rescue - their president, Ajay Singhal, was instrumental in getting us prepared for our performance."
 
 
  
  
 
  
  Himachal Pradesh Governor, Acharya Devvrat welcomed by Pramod Kumar, the play's director
 
  The group travelled to Shimla in the first week of July and set up camp on the Mall Road. "We performed at the historic Gaiety Theatre. We were told that in most plays there, you only get a crowd of 50-100 people, so we printed fliers and worked on word-of-mouth publicity. Thankfully, all that worked and we were able to gather a large crowd," adds Pramod.
 
  But it wasn't just the audience that loved the play, the group's high-profile host was also all praises. Impressed by the group’s performance, the governor also invited them to the Raj Bhavan for breakfast the following morning. "It was the first time any of us had gone to the Raj Bhavan. It was something we had never imagined," Pramod tells us. Court Martial is a famous play on caste divide and is written by Swadesh Deepak. The story deals with a lower caste army jawan on trial for murdering two of his senior officers who belonged to an upper caste. As Pramod says, "The governor really appreciated us, particularly talking about the play’s content and the message. He said he couldn’t take his eyes off the stage." The group now plans to stage the same production in NCR, with shows scheduled in Faridabad and Gurgaon in August.
 
 
