LUCKNOW: Students of APJ Abdul   Technical University ( ) who can come up with a managerial or technological solution to a problem faced by villagers stand a chance to qualify for the ‘Ignited Mind Fellowship’, which will be introduced by the university in collaboration with the Kalam Centre on the second death anniversary of Kalam on July 27. An APJ Abdul Kalam Memorial International Youth Conclave will be held on ‘Creating Livable Planet Earth 2017’, the topic on which Kalam delivered his last lecture in IIM Shillong in 2015. 

 The fellowship focuses on creating social impact through community teaching programme and governance through the Kalam-Deendayal Transform Bharat Challenge. Under the fellowship which aims to find youth who can follow in the footsteps of Kalam, six students from each affiliated college of AKTU will have to spend 75 hours in a village or urban underprivileged locality and provide a solution—technological or managerial in nature. Selected student will also be exposed to mentors from across the world for lessons on leadership, scientific spirit and challenges in education. 
 
 According to Srijan Pal Singh who belongs to Kalam Centre and is an advisor to AKTU, the idea is to find young minds who are ready to develop themselves as a power house of knowledge. “The fellowship is all about converting challenges in rural, urban underprivileged places into opportunity,’’ said Singh. For example, if there is an issue of low attendance of students in government schools, students will have to provide a solution. Best ideas will be presented before the government functionaries on Kalam’s birth anniversary on October 15, birth anniversary of Kalam. 
 
 The conclave will be inaugurated by Governor Ram Naik and will feature the flagging off of the ‘Missile of Dreams’ van, a symbol of Kalam Centre’s ongoing nation-wide campaign, Dreamathon. The campaign captures how youth envision future India and their plan of action to achieve such goals. Naik will also launch the Kalam Centre for Innovation and Incubation of Startups (K-CIIS) on July 27 at AKTU. This will be in the form of a website as well as first phase of state-of-the-art incubation centre. “The objective of the centre is to nurture entrepreneurial energy of students across over 650 affiliated colleges. It will organise start-up events; create market research, technology research papers and reports and host webinars,” said AKTU vice-chancellor Vinay Pathak. 
 
 
