PUNE: Though there was no significant increase in the overall voting percentage in the city, the Peth areas, however, witnessed massive surge in voting on Tuesday. The high turnout in these areas, which traditionally belong to the BJP and the  , could be an outcome of the efforts of these parties. The mandate from these areas, which had an average voting of 61%, could be a deciding factor. Interestingly, these are the areas where chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had to cancel his rally due to poor response from public.

 Despite the aggressive campaign by the   as well as efforts by NGOs, political parties and housing societies to boost voting, the turnout went up by only 4.5% — from 51% in the 2012 civic elections to 55.5% this time. In contrast, there was good news from Pimpri Chinchwad where the turnout was 67% compared to 54.8% in 2012.
 
 Pune has consistently shown lower voter turnout in the last four municipal polls with a little more than half the electorate exercising its franchise. Even in the 2014 Lok Sabha and Assembly elections, Pune had recorded a near-similar voter turnout of 53.46% and 56.14% respectively.
 
 The performance of Peth areas was, however, noticeable this time. The highest number of votes (62.6%) were cast in Shaniwar Peth-Sadashiv Peth ward, while the adjacent Kasba Peth-Somwar Peth panel was second-highest at 62.1 %.
 
 “The high voting percentage will benefit us. All the seats in the core areas will be in our kitty. The trend is supporting us. These areas will help us sail through in the election,” said Ganesh Bidkar of the BJP. “These pockets have been voting for BJP traditionally. And the trend will continue in this election too,” he added. 
 
 Shyam Deshpande, a senior Sena leader, said their party workers went door-to-door to make sure that people come out and vote. “We concentrated on the pockets in these areas where we have our supporters. The party workers tapped them and made sure they exercised their right to vote,” he said.
 
 The voting pattern in these areas was consistent. Citizens started casting votes since early morning. After a lull in the afternoon, voting gathered momentum in the evening. The slums areas too witnessed heavy voting, which continued till late in the evening. 
 
 Experts said these areas have traditionally been witnessing average to less than average voting. Housing societies in these part of the city had limited enthusiasm about casting their votes in the past.
 
 Narendra Dedge, a political analyst, said the picture has changed. The high voting percentage will benefit saffron parties as well as the NCP and the Congress to some extent.
 
 “Major campaigning on ground and the Modi factor has helped in increasing the vote share. The youngsters, who were casting votes in these areas, were inclined towards the BJP. Though the business community, which is unhappy with the Centre’s demonetisation decision, have given the mandate to the NCP and the Congress, the overall sentiment was in favour of the Sena and the BJP,” he said. The MNS had received good response from these areas in the last election, but its vote bank is behind Sena this time, he added.
 
 The fringe areas of Vadgaonsheri, Kharadi, Pashan and Balewadi, which are NCP stronghold areas, witnessed less than average voting, while Warje, Dhankawdi, Kondhwa and Ambegaon areas recorded around 59-60% voting. The NCP expects better results from these areas. “We have sitting corporators in these areas. They will be able to retain their seats. The candidates to which the party has given tickets are strong and the voters will prefer them,” said Ashok Rathi, a senior NCP leader.
 
 The chief minister was to address a rally in the Peth area on Saturday afternoon, but seeing the thin attendance at the venue, Fadnavis left the place without addressing the meeting. “I have cancelled my public meeting at Pune due to miscommunication of time of rally. I regret for the same,” he had said in a tweet.
 
