BENGALURU: Kannada activists struck at   early Thursday and blackened   to protest the “imposition“ of Hindi on Karnataka.

 Signboards at all 41 stations stood defaced before services began at daybreak. Police arrested six activists at  .
 
 Earlier,   (KRV) had struck on July 2 and masked the Hindi signage at Chikkapete and Majestic stations, besides staging a sit-in in front of the Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation office demanding the removal of Hin di boards at the stations.
 
 On Thursday, Vedike activists claimed to have smeared indelible ink on the Hindi letters at the stations. Barring KR Market where the agitators were arrested, activists at other stations managed to sneak out before security personnel got wind of the protest. BMRCL officials later restored the Hindi signage.
 
 Ten cases have been registered against unidentified miscreants at KR Puram, Deepanjalinagar, City Market and other stations. The six activists arrested were sent to judicial custody.
 
 Vedike leaders threatened to lay siege to the Metro stations and stage rail roko if their demands were not met.“We gave time to BMRCL and the government after our activists blackened the boards at Chikkapete and Majestic.Their inaction prompted us to re-launch the agitation,“ Vedike president TA Narayana Gowda said. “We chose the time between 4am and 5am since we didn't want to trouble commuters,“ said Vedike general secretary B Sanna Veerappa. “We didn't want service to be disrupted as it would inconvenience people. All we wanted was to convey the feeling against Hindi imposition.“
 
 A delegation of Vedike leaders will meet CM Siddaramaiah on Friday after which the outfit will chart its next course of action.
 
 Last week, the Vedike had organized a roundtable of representatives from non-Hindi-speaking states in a bid to mobilize a national agitation. Ahead of another meeting planned in Delhi, the outfit has launched protests across Karnataka to garner support. There were mixed reactions to Thursday's protest, with many questioning the alleged inaction of the state government.
 
 “I'm a supporter of the argument that regional identity must be protected in all states and Hindi should not be imposed on non-Hindi speaking states,“ said a Kannada writer. “At the same time, I oppose vigilantism.Thursday's development is not good for the global image of Bengaluru,“ said the writer.
 
 Supporters of the agitation said it was a question of survival of a pluralistic society when the Centre was imposing a one-nation-one-culture stream of thought.
 
 “BMRCL is behaving like it's possessed by Hindi. Agitations like this are needed to exorcise the ghost,“ said noted writer PV Narayana.
 
 Metro authorities said security had been increased after the July 2 attack but they failed to stop a repeat. “We had beefed up the security, but activists managed to deface the boards,“ said a senior BMRCL official.
 
 `Govt's silence encouraging protests'
 
 The Karnataka government drew flak for alleged inaction against Kannada activists, with some saying its silence on the language controversy was triggering protests. “The Siddaramaiah government, for some reason, is taking time to act on issues like regional identity. If it takes more time, it will only give scope for miscreants to enter,“ said Chandrashekhar Patil (Champa), writer and former Kannada Development Authority chairman. He said the Vedike's agitation was part of the resolution passed at the roundtable held in Bengaluru last week.
 
 “The government has to come out with its language policy. The CM's silence is stoking speculation,“ said activist Vatal Nagaraj.
 
 “The BJP wants to play the nationalist card and Congress is attempting to counter it through regionalism. Politics is obvious,“ said K Satyanarayana, a political analyst.
 
 KRV had 3 teams at each station
 
 Rakshana Vedike leaders had formed three teams, of 7-8 activists, for each station. The first team was to paint over the board at the entrance and the second would target the boards at the exits. “In case the first team failed, the second team had to take over. The third team would enter if the other two failed. The teams had to watch out for each other as well,“ said a KRV leader. The operation was planned between 4am and 5am and all teams arrived at the stations five minutes past 4am and had blackened the boards before 4.15am. While ink was splattered at other stations, at Indiranagar, KRV posters were pasted over the letters.
 
