KOLKATA: A 2014 Supreme Court Constitution bench order, which says students between classes I and IV cannot be forced to study the local vernacular language, may prevent the state government from making   mandatory for all school-goers in   from classes I to X.

 The 2014 order involving Karnataka does not leave much scope for the government to make Bengali compulsory from Class I, admit school education department officials. As a result, the Bengal government may now find itself exploring the option of introducing Bengali as a compulsory subject only from Class V or later.
 
 Besides this “adverse” legal precedent, officials say, there is also growing pressure from within that is pushing the government to increasingly look at the option of introducing Bengali as a compulsory language after the primary classes.
 
 One of the senior officials involved in the decision-making process, for instance, has already advised the government against introducing the three-language formula from class I, instead advocating a more rational approach that might see Bengali being made mandatory only from classes V to VIII. Another important suggestion to the school education department strongly recommends against having Bengali as a “compulsory testing paper” throughout school.
 
 It would also make no sense to force students to study three languages throughout school but then eventually have two languages in their board exam syllabus, officials said. “This was not the initial line of thinking,” a senior official said. 
 
 “But there is growing realisation that introduction of three languages along with the imposition of Bengali right from class I itself may encounter serious legal hurdles. So we have invited suggestions from all stakeholders,” the school education department official said. The climbdown from education minister Partha Chatterjee’s Monday media briefing started on Tuesday itself as the department said it was open to suggestions and details would be worked out in consultation with stakeholders.
 
 Chatterjee, however, said the government was looking at various permutations and combinations. “We are yet to arrive at a final decision on the nitty-gritty but want to introduce the law in this assembly session itself so that there is no confusion from the next academic year,” he said.
 
