JAIPUR: The   (AAI) has put a cap on the construction of multi-storied buildings in 500 feet area from the boundary wall of Jaipur airport.

 In this regard the AAI has written a letter to   (JDA). The JDA will now make amendments in the building bylaws and forward it to the state government for final approval.
 
 After the AAI orders, possibility of demolition of few buildings near the state hanger has increased.
 
 According to officials, there are three high–rises in the close periphery of the state hanger and  . Out of three, two developers have constructed buildings above 15 metres after receiving permission from the JDA. The matter is pending in the court.
 
 Also, there are many G+3 buildings constructed in Jagatpura and  , which nearly 300 feet away from the boundary wall. “The JDA will seek directions from the state government regarding the existing buildings,” said a JDA official of town planning department.
 
 High-rises and other buildings near the airport boundary wall have increased in the recent years due to negligence of JDA. To keep a check on high-rise buildings near the state hangar and Jaipur airport, the urban development and housing (UDH) department had also proposed to formulate separate bylaws for this zone.
 
 Two years ago directions were given to JDA’s zone commissioner to analyse and examine the bylaws of other airports in the country and formulate new norms. Sources in the department said, “The then additional chief secretary,   sought a report in 15 days. However, the report has not been prepared till date.”
 
 According to the officials, there are no specific bylaws at present to construct a building near the airport. The necessity to formulate the norms was felt after the district collector wrote a letter to JDA. “There is VIP movement near the state hangar and it poses a security threat with high-rises constructed in nearby areas. At present, the developer can construct a building after procuring no objection certificate from the Airports Authority of India (AAI),” an official said.
 
