JALANDHAR: With   concluding and the   (DSGMC) polls approaching fast, Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda’s support to SAD has started causing trouble within the party. 

 The Delhi unit of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which controls DSGMC, has put those Akali leaders here in dock who went to the Dera to seek support. Delhi leaders have not only attacked dera chief Gurmit Ram Rahim Singh but also decided to send a representation to Akal Takht jathedar Gurbachan Singh to seek action against own party leaders. 
 
 Even as top SAD brass has preferred to maintain a silence on the issue, Delhi-based leaders of the party have taken a clear line on the issue. As general elections of DSGMC are scheduled for February 26, they feel that any association of SAD with Sirsa Dera can harm them. 
 
 DSGMC president Manjit Singh GK, who is also the chief of SAD Delhi unit, told TOI that he would raise the issue of support extended by the dera to SAD in the Punjab assembly election at party forum too. “We are very clear on the issue, Sikhs can’t have any truck with the dera and any association of any SAD leader with it is wrong,” he said. He also released a video on his FB page attacking Gurmeet and said that there could be no ties with a person like him who had serious criminal cases pending against him and who imitated Guru Gobind Singh. 
 
 DSGMC even held a special meeting on Sunday and demanded from Akal Takht jathedar to take action against the erring SAD leaders. In the meeting, apart from DSGMC chief GK, general secretary Manjinder Singh Sirsa, senior vice-president Mohinder Pal Singh Chadha, vice-president Satpal Singh and join secretary Amarjit Singh were also present. 
 
 GK and Sirsa said that these leaders were responsible for violating the Akal Takht directive that clearly forbade any connection with the Sirsa dera. 
 
 GK said that the copy of the letter being sent Akal Takht Jathedar was also being sent to SGPC president Prof Kirpal Singh Badungar. 
 
 “Despite the announcement of support by the dera to SAD, the DSGMC is firm on its stand that Sirsa Dera was sheltering anti-Sikh forces and we have no business to argue in support a person of such character,” said GK in a statement issued on Saturday evening.
 
 While SAD candidates in the state had announced to organize satsangs (congregations) of the dera in Punjab, GK said that they would oppose these congregations. “Our old stand against him remains unchanged. We have always spoken and argued against him whenever we were called by the national media on his issue and we shall continue doing,” he said. “In the past too we opposed his films and did not allow his films to be screened in Delhi, he said, adding that he was asking his opponents also to question “their mentors” about their closeness to Nirankaris and why were they not questioning for massacre of Sikhs and Operation Blue Star.
 
 
 
 
 Amritsar: A day after polling for state assembly elections, jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Gurbachan Singh directed the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbanchak Committee (SGPC) to prepare details of people who had violated the 2007 edict issued with respect to   chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim.
 
 The jathedar told TOI that he had asked the SGPC to constitute a sub-committee which should investigate into the details of persons who had violated the edict which directed Sikhs to not have any social, political or religious contact with Dera chief.
 
 Notably, ahead of assembly elections, Dera had announced its support to the incumbent SAD-BJP alliance which created ripples in panthic circles and wide criticism of SAD for taking ‘help’ from dera for electoral gains.
 
 
