NEW DELHI: If you are trying to reach the   from some parts of Delhi to catch a flight to say, Mumbai, you should budget as much time for the drive as for your hop from the capital to your destination, thousands of kilometres away. A 15-km drive on the road can take more than an hour and a half.

 A critical passage to the airport, the heavily used  , is in the process of being redesigned, but completion of the work will take at least up to the end of 2018. The road is being widened in front of the  . A parallel flyover is being constructed alongside the existing one, where inexplicably short-sighted planning left the one-way RTR flyover causing more of a mess than easing traffic flow.
 
 Work on these was delayed frequently for a multiplicity of reasons, and when the new project did start, it created a traffic funnel near Munirka that stalls traffic. Even now, PWD has yet to begin excavating a tunnel to connect Rao Tula Ram Marg with Ring Road to clear space for the construction of the parallel flyover.
 
 After the airport-bound driver manages to stop-start past this snarl, a short distance away on the arm of the elevated road going towards Terminal 1 from the Gurgaon expressway, there is again a hold up. The passage is constricted by parked cars, their drivers awaiting the arrival of passengers at the terminal more than a kilometre away. Most of those who illegally stop there cite the high rates of parking — from Rs 100 per hour to Rs 150 — at the airport, and though the traffic police occasionally book them, the risk outweighs the cost of parking at the terminal.
 
 A flyover and underpass will be constructed to connect Mahipalpur with the airport. And while this will take pressure off Outer Ring Road by diverting airport-bound traffic from Vasant Kunj, Vasant Vihar and Chhattarpur, the construction period will see an already narrow space becoming more limited. The Centre has allocated funds for this signal-free portion, and work will begin this year, as announced by Delhi government announced during the budget session.
 
 
