BENGALURU: An allusion to popular fantasy series   or a subtle dig at an IPL team isn’t something one may expect from the men in khaki. But a series of interesting tweets and   posts from the department — laced with humour, sarcasm and puns — have caught the fancy of netizens. 

 “If you’re wondering why your dealer did not reach you with your stash, this is probably why. Don’t worry, you can come to the police station and collect it,” read a tweet announcing the arrest of a drug dealer on Monday.
 
 As the city responds to the new breed of online messages, two youngsters in jeans and T-shirts are busy tweeting on the fifth floor of the police commissioner’s office. The duo is part of the company tasked with handling police’s social media accounts. Their details have been withheld for security reasons. One of the posts also includes a Harry Potter reference.
 
 
 “Uniformed policemen are no longer handling the accounts. Instead, a young team of social media operators is doing the job. The response to new tweets has been good. We are adding at least 1,000 followers on a daily basis,” said police commissioner Praveen Sood.
  
  
 Interactions on Twitter and Facebook have become lively. A recent post on online fraud using OTP, with a reference to Game of Thrones, garnered hilarious reactions. 
 
 “Please ignore all calls claiming to be your bank, online shopping, lottery or even the King of Westeros. More than 80% of the cases registered with us are due to disclosure of OTP,” read the post. Several users responded in the same humourous vein. “When they ask you for your OTP, tell them you are  ,” said a user. “If mother of dragons is calling, I will ask her out for a date but won't give my OTP,” posted another.
 
 Police say it’s a welcome change which serves a twofold purpose — the department is being able to connect with young Bengaluru and uniformed personal, who were earlier busy running social media platforms, have been assigned core policing duties. “You shouldn’t do something you aren’t good at. Yes, our tweets were rather boring earlier,” Sood admitted.
  
  
 However, cops continue to respond to complaints and petitions received on social media platforms. The outsouring is restricted to public interactions, said R Nagendra, deputy commissioner of police, command center. 
 
 TWITTER GEMS
 
 *“Raided a shop that was selling US Polo, Adidas, Puma & Nike fake clothing. To protect consumers, we really had to JUST DO IT.”
 
 *“Here is a Gambling tip: When you're not sure if its Andar or Bahar, take our advice seriously. It’s always 'ANDAR' once we hear about you. Just like these 6 gentlemen.”
 
 *“Over 1100 policemen have been deployed for tonight’s IPL match. Trust us, no daredevils are a threat tonight. #RCBvDD #PlayBold @CPBlr.”
 
 
