VISAKHAPATNAM: With the last bit of winter chill still in the air, Vizagites in large numbers came out to participate in the   organised on   on Sunday morning. 

 A large number of residents belonging to different age groups gathered on Beach Road to try their hand at a plethora of activities including street basketball, gully cricket, tug-of-war, basketball, archery, hula-hoop, cycling and also skating. Also, visitors to Beach Road shook a leg, even while trying to learn the dance moves at the  . While some of the youngsters enjoyed jogging on the picturesque Beach Road, others took to carrom and the giant snakes and ladder game during the three-hour event. Vizag-based band ‘Musikos’ captivated the visitors at Beach Road by performing a fusion of different genres including melody and soft rock.
 
 Organised by The Times of India, Happy Streets is an initiative by  , presented by AP Tourism, powered by Vaibhav Jewellers, Vignan group of institutions, in association with Oakridge International School.
 
 “I’ve been coming here almost every week since the Happy Streets initiative was launched. It has been really fun to come out on Sunday morning and try different things here. My favourite has been the tug-of-war as so many people just join in all of a sudden to see, which side is stronger. It’s not just youngsters, even children and the elderly participate in the event. It is a lot of fun,” said K Narayana of Seethammadhara. “Initially, I used to bring my son along, but now our whole family is coming to Happy Streets.”
 
 Homemaker Aruna Rao said Zumba has been her favourite. “Initially, it was awkward as I was not able to move my body to the music. But, now I have improved so much that I feel happy about the progress that I’ve made. I look forward to this every week and it has become a favourite for my daughter also,” she said, adding it has made her a lot healthier. “Earlier, we only used to spend time on work at home and looking after children, but this is a nice way to start the week.” 
 
