CHANDIGARH: The recent agitation has helped mobilise   into a political force, and all parties are wooing this votebank
The vigorous agitation by India's military veterans over the one rank, one pension (OROP) scheme has had an unexpected fallout -it has given them political clout in poll-bound Punjab.
 
 The movement helped the ex-servicemen get politically organised. Today , almost every political party in Punjab is wooing the   .They have fielded senior veterans including a former Army chief to make inroads into this emerging vote bank.Punjab has around four lakh military veterans, with lakhs of family members, and 21 large cantonments where the serving soldiers would also be entitled to vote this time.
 
 Prominent veterans in the fray include Capt Amarinder Singh of Congress, former Army chief Gen J J Singh of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Brig Raj Kumar, a former military intelligence officer, from Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Capt Bikramjit Singh (AAP), a Shaurya Chakra awardee, is in the fray from Khemkaran in Tarn Taran district. While the number of such candidates is still comparatively low, parties have given priority to ex-servicemen's demands in their election manifestos (see box).
 
 Major Gen (Retd) Satbir Singh, a prominent leader of the agitation, says the OROP protests mobilised them po litically. “No one understood what kind of ill-treatment or degradation soldiers have faced since Independence in terms of pensions and other facilities. We had gone from pillar to post for our rights but no avail. Today we have become politically organized and are being considered a strong vote bank. I believe greater participation of veterans in polls is a sign of vibrant democracy ,“ he says.
 
 But former Army chief Gen V P Malik fears this may lead to politicisation of the armed forces. “Greater participation (in politics) by senior-ranking officers immediately after retirement would lure other serving officers towards politics and it may have an adverse impact on the apolitical nature of the armed forces,“ he says. Instead, he suggests that political parties reserve some seats for senior ranking retired military officers in Parliament, which would be the best way to give representation to the fraternity and resolve their issues.
 
 Lt Gen K J Singh, former Army Commander, Western Command, also believes that senior officers should avoid contesting elections. “However, there is no harm if a jawan contests after retirement because they retire at a young age and can participate in the process,“ he says.
 
 But many think they can make a difference. Brig (Retd) Raj Kumar, AAP candidate from Balachaur, believes that at a time when Punjab is facing multiple problems -financial crisis, corruption, and social evils like drug abuse -military men with experience of working in diverse, hostile environments, are capable of providing clean and efficient governance.
 
 Lt Col S S Sohi, who runs an NGO for the welfare of exservicemen and their widows in Mohali, says the active involvement of military veterans in politics is a matter of compulsion. “For every welfare measure, we have to look towards politicians who are the real masters of our destiny. The past experience was that they hardly bothered about our rights and requirements. It is good that now we are being considered a vote bank. Ex-servicemen's participation in politics is the only way out for their problems,“ he explains.
 
