NEW DELHI: The Union government expressed concern on Friday over a recent global report attributing over a million deaths in the country in 2015 to air pollution.

 However, it adhered to its stated position that though a serious issue, pollution was not the only reason that led to so many deaths. 
 
 Playing down the findings of the ‘State of Global Air 2017’, Union environment minister   said India did not work on reports from outside, and preferred to rely on research done within the country.
 
 “India trusts its own reports. We take decisions based on our own reports... We will stress on research done by Indian institutions,” Dave added. 
 
 Admitting that air pollution was a serious issue that affected human health, he later told TOI that the country had a very clear position on this and that’s why the government had been taking multiple measures to fight the menace. 
 
 “As I said in Parliament, I would like to repeat that the air pollution could be one of the triggering factors for respiratory ailments and diseases,” he said. 
 
 On February 6, Dave had told Parliament, “There is no conclusive data available in the country to establish a direct co-relationship of death exclusively with air pollution. Health effects of air pollution are a synergistic manifestation of factors such as food habits, occupational habits, socio-economic status, medical history, immunity, heredity etc of individuals”.
 
 Union science minister Harsh Vardhan agreed with Dave, but asserted that any report coming from bodies like the   should be taken “seriously”.
 
 He told the TOI that he was not aware of what the other global reports said, but fully agreed with what Dave had said in Parliament. " As a doctor, I feel that pollution is a cause for real worry", he said.
 
 Both the ministers were asked questions on the issue in the context of the recent report, prepared by the Health Effects Institute in cooperation with the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington and the University of British Columbia.
 
 The report claimed that India's worsening air pollution caused some 1.1 million premature deaths in 2015 and the country along with China were together responsible for over half of the total premature global deaths due to air pollution. 
 
