Of late, the   (IMC) has been conducting   of illegal structures that have been set up on public spaces. And their most recent victims are the hawkers who sell fruits and vegetables from carts on the  . Rohan Saxena, additional commissioner of IMC says, “This is a regular process under the clean   campaign, where apart from building toilets and installing dustbins at public spaces, we have also been asking hawkers to shut stalls that have encroached public spaces. Over 5,000 such thelas have been asked to close across the city.”

 While the IMC’s action is from a legal point of view, the vendors, who earn their living through these thelas, say that they have not been allotted a dedicated space to set up stalls. Sitaram Baseriya, a city-based vendor says, “The IMC vehicle can come at any time and shut us down. We don’t have a proper place to set up stalls. Our business suffers since we have to shut for a few days. We open the stalls again, since it’s a matter of livelihood for us.” On the subject of allocating space for the hawkers, Lata Agrawal, deputy commissioner of IMC says, “We are working on it and have also given them the liberty to set up on the footpath or a little inside the lane. But doing so on the road is encroaching public space and that’s illegal. It also creates traffic snarls since customers park their vehicles on the road while buying from them. Besides, thelas are supposed to move from area to area and not remain stationary in one place.”
 
 Talking to a few more hawkers revealed that while they are usually asked to stick to the footpath, last week, they were instructed not to set up stalls at all. The periphery of Choithram Square, commonly known as the fruit market with over 40 fruit stalls, wore a deserted look last Sunday, with no trace of hawkers even on the pavement. One of the hawkers from the area, Jeetu Thagele shares, “The officials from IMC had asked us not to set up stalls till January 31 because an inspection team was visiting from Delhi. The officials conducted regular inspections during these four days and ceased thelas of hawkers who were found selling in the area.” Needless to say, this resulted in heavy losses for them. Narendra Singh, who has been selling from a stall at Choithram Square for the last six years says, “Stock of over `25,000 became rotten. Exotic fruits like kiwi, dragon fruit and passion fruit cost over `35 to `40 per piece and now people aren’t buying them even for `5.” When asked about this, Rohan Saxena denied the information saying, “It was only part of our regular process.”
