NAGPUR: The focused man-to-man surveillance system, labelled as ‘Dattak yojana’, has led to an intriguing outcome for cops as the 550 gangsters under vigilance have turned into a potential  .

 The ‘Dattak yojana’ scheme, earlier devised as a strategy to prevent crime, now seems to have been proving fruitful for detections too as the inputs from gangsters are increasingly helping cops zero down upon the perpetrators cracking crimes committed by them. 
 
 Addl CP (in-charge), crime,  , who monitors the ‘Dattak yojana’ system, claimed these gangs or their members did not commit any substantial crime in the last two months after the murder of Pravin Kuhike, alias   in the limits of   police station in first week of February this year. “Two months have elapsed in which the gangsters under our surveillance have remained away from crimes due to constant police vigilance on them,” he said. “On the contrary, we managed to pick up crucial clues from the gangsters regarding the crimes in their localities by others which got detected too,” he said. 
 
 The vigilance system, as described by Addl CP Sharma, had a specific mode of functioning where it is mandatory for a cop to speak to the goon ‘adopted’ by him everyday on a routine basis. The goon has to also present himself once in a week before the particular cop whether at police station or crime branch. Each cop, especially at the crime branch, has been allotted around five to six gangsters. “The gang members were also involved in taking revenges against each other which we have managed to stop. Also, we are constantly communication and counselling the family members, especially of the parents, so that they discourage them or help police,” said Sharma. 
 
 He said the main target which the system has achieved is to curtail the dominance of the gangs in their localities preventing them from spreading panic or terror. 
 
 City police, which had prepared dossier of 550 members of various gangs for the purpose of ‘Dattak yojana’, to ensure that they are under surveillance round-the-clock. The scheme kicked off it’s ‘dattak yojana’ which has been now implemented for more than a year. The scheme, launched for both police station and crime branch simultaneously, meant each criminals were brought under special attention by an individual cop as if the goon was taken ‘Dattak’ or being adopted. 
 
 The officers were allotted the hardened gang leaders while the constables had been asked to keep tab on the associates and aides. The cops have to remain updated about the regular whereabouts, associations, movements and every activities of the goon whether he is the leader or an aide of the gang.
 
