In 2006, a research study conducted in the US by   found that people who were financially literate were more susceptible to financial fraud than those who weren't.

 The study revealed that people who became victims of fraudulent   schemes had a higher score on financial literacy tests than those who hadn't fallen victim, by a statistically significant 27 percentage points. There's no equivalent Indian study that I know of, but these findings echo what I have observed in my interactions with savers and investors in India. I think the key to this lies in what is meant by the term `financial literacy'.
 
 My argument in this regard is quite simple: by definition, if a person is making bad personal financial decisions, whatever kind of knowledge he possesses does not qualify as financial literacy. It may be called financially literacy by those who provide it, or those who possess it. It may superficially resemble what financial literacy should be like, but it cannot actually be financial literacy. If someone who has had a basic education cannot read or write, then can they really be called educated? Obvi ously not.
 
 But surely there's nothing wrong with the knowledge provided by various financial literacy programmes. People learn the basics of money,  , different avenues of investment, insurance, loans, deposits, interest etc.How can learning about these things actually make one more susceptible to financial fraud? The simplest explana tion may lie in the saying `a little knowledge is a dangerous thing'.
 
 But there's more to it than that. From what I've observed, there's a deeper problem with financial literacy programmes. All of them focus on what the saver should do, not on what he should avoid.
 
 Moreover, all financial literacy programmes seem ideologically committed to the view that there is no fundamental behavioural problem on the part of the various entities which are selling you financial services. This is a goody-goody view of the financial world, which is based on the idea that since all personal financial services are regulated by some government regulator or the other, no harm can come upon the saver who avails of any such service. It's a no-criticism model of education, which is committed to not saying anything negative about that which is otherwise legal.
 
 However, this view of the world is fiction. In reality, a good proportion--perhaps even the vast majority - of financial service providers have no interest except to maximise their own earnings while sticking to the most basic letter of the law. For obvious reasons, this is especially true of the sellers or distributors of products who earn money in the form of commissions. It could be a stockbroker who will try and make you trade excessively, a mutual fund distributor who will churn your portfolio to generate commissions, or insurance sellers, who are often the worst offenders.
 
 The interesting thing is, those who are completely conservative about financial choices, and simply refuse to use any financial products apart from the conventional ones that their grandparents used, are relatively immune to such problems. However, sticking to PPFs and FDs is not the solution either, because whatever you gain will be eaten away by inflation.
 
 What is needed is a kind of an aggressive, negatively-oriented financial literacy syllabus which tells people what not to do. Obviously, this won't be delivered through conventional channels. We will either learn through our own bitter experiences, or from those of others. Hopefully, this column will also contribute to the process.
 
 The author has written about personal finance for more than two decades. He is the Founder and CEO of Value Research
 
