Navi Mumbai: The reappearance of   or colour-tagged birds (when a small tag is attached to the leg or wing of a migratory bird to identify and track its movements) in the Mumbai and Navi Mumbai   has caused a flutter among ornithologists.

 The   (medium-sized shorebirds),   in the wetlands of Mumbai between December 2014 and February 2015, were spotted by Dr Raju Kasambe, a bird expert with Bombay Natural History Society ( ) at Sewri. Birders S Krishnan and Ashwin Mohan also spotted them at the Navi Mumbai wetlands.
 
 Such revisits by the same winged visitors after spending summers on their breeding grounds in Arctic Russia speak favourably of the migratory sites. Such birds are known to spend winters in the same wetlands year after year to feed and roost. Also, such revisits help understand the paths used by birds during migration, their stopovers and preferences. 
 
 BNHS has engaged in bird migration studies and collected data over the past 70 years to draw in-depth knowledge about their migration.
 
 “The sighting of these ringed /colour-tagged birds is significant as it shows that they are not casual visitors to the wetlands. We urge the birding community to get back to us with information about any sightings of ringed birds. This will be help us get more information about their habitat preference and long-distance movements,” said Dr Deepak Apte, director, BNHS.
 
 The mudflats in Mumbai host a large congregation of both local and migratory waterbirds every year as they offer a valuable food source by way of high quality prey items for fish and waterbirds. 
 
 Mudflats also play a crucial role for waterbirds which travel over long distances by helping them gain the body mass required to complete their migratory movements. As they are generally inaccessible and less disturbed, the mudflats offer a good resting sites for these birds.
 
 BNHS was recently designated as the state nodal agency for bird ringing studies by the Maharashtra Forest Department. The Mangrove and Marine Biodiversity Conservation Foundation has also recently allowed it to map the coastal wetlands in the context of Central Asian Flyway. From September, the society will start large-scale bird ringing along the state’s coastal areas.
 
