MANGALURU: A call by dharmadhikari of   D Veerendra Heggade to clean up religious places – physically and thereby spiritually – across Karnataka before   has received an overwhelming response.

 The aim was to clean religious places before sunrise on the auspicious occasion of uttarayana. The task was taken up and achieved through volunteers and members of SKDRDP, a unit of Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala.
 
 L H Manjunath, executive director, SKDRDP said the month long drive involved cooperation from heads of various religious places, local organisations, self-help groups, and a task force set up by the kshetra under leadership of Jayarama Nellithaya. “A total of 7.19-lakh people volunteered their time for this task and Veerendra Heggade personally went to many religious places to oversee the work, inspiring the volunteers as they went about their task,” Manjunath said.
 
 Leaders of Hindu, Christian and Muslim religious institutions took up the task in right earnestness on an appeal from Heggade, he said adding highlight of the drive was the cleanliness undertaken by an estimated 5 lakh people who cleaned up religious places across Karnataka on January 13, a day before Makara Sankranthi. The campaign saw 8,045 religious places being cleaned including 200 maths and mausoleums, 65 Jain basadis, 12 mosques and four churches.
 
 In Udupi, the paryaya swamiji Sri Vishvesha Tirtha of Pejavar Adhokshaja Math, heads of Shiroor and Krishnapura maths took special interest in this campaign. The president of Ullal Darga guided volunteers who went about the task of cleaning up the darga. The other prominent religious places covered in the campaign included   in Mysuru, Kukke Sri Subrahmanya Temple at Subrahmanya, Siddaruda Math in Hubballi and Sayyed Madani Darga.
 
 Incidentally, devotees in Chikkaballapura were in the forefront of the drive with more than 40000 devotees cleaning up 580 religious places. In Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, a record number of 560 and 486 religious places were cleaned up, Manjunath said adding the campaign also saw elected representatives including T B Jayachandra, H Vishwanath, seers of Subrahmanya, Odiyur, Jevargi, Nanjavadoota swamiji, Bengaluru, Siddaganga seer, Tumakuru take part.
 
 Heggade, who reviewed implementation of the cleanliness campaign on Sankranti day advised the stakeholders to not only create awareness among people on the need to keep religious places clean, but also ensure that places cleaned during the campaign remain so. “If the common people take interest in keeping their surroundings clean, it is possible to realize the dream of a Swachh Bharat for which the union government has already taken steps to achieve,” he added.
 
