NEW DELHI: Soon after the  ,   made a beeline for the various hospitals where the affected students of   were being treated. The first to arrive on the scene was lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who rushed to the ESIC Hospital in Tughlaqabad to take stock of the situation.Through the day , chief minister  , his deputy and education minister Manish Sisodia and DCW chief Swati Maliwal visited the ailing children.

 Opposition leader in the Delhi assembly , Vijender Gupta, also visited the victims at ESI Hospital and enquired about their condition.
 
 The LG instructed all the government hospitals to ensure that the children falling ill are treated on a priority basis. He also ordered an inquiry into the cause of the chemical leak.
 
 Sisodia visited Batra Hospital and Majeedia Hospital, where two other batches of students were being treated.“I have spoken to the children as well as the doctors. All students are out of danger. We have asked the district magistrate to investigate the gas leak at the earliest,“ he said.
 
 The chief minister too assured of a full investigation into the matter, and possible shifting of the depot to a new location. “I have met the children and all of them seem fine now. Doctors said everything was under control.We have ordered an investigation into how the gas leaked. Those found responsible for it will be taken to task.We will also look into the matter of shifting of the depot,“ he said.
 
 According to the DCW chief, who also promptly met the children, said the depot owners have land in Dadri and talks should be held to shift it as soon as possible. “It is a serious matter, especially because the depot is very close to the school. We have involved the poison control centre of AIIMS, which have the expertise, to oversee the treatment of the children.The depot must be shifted to outer parts of the city . They have land in Dadri but nothing is being done to shift it,“ said Maliwal.
 
 As the news broke, Union health minister J P Nadda instructed all central government hospitals to be ready to help the victims. A team of doctors from AIIMS has been put on stand-by to cater to any emergency .
 
 
