BENGALURU: The   is knocking on the door and Bengaluru's   for it is thoroughly exposed, particularly after last Saturday's squall that   and claimed a life.

 Though the civic agencies have listed out a string of measures being taken for the monsoon, officials reiterate they need time to fix the problems. TOI spoke to some officials to find out how the city is gearing up for the rains.
 
 “All the leaves of officers and engineers have been cancelled till the monsoon. They have been told to keep their phones switched on all the time. We have identified over 200 flood-prone areas and will be placing sandbags along stormwater drains to prevent flooding,“ said  .
 
 The measures, however, are largely precautionary in nature and won't help much in addressing the root problem of inadequate infrastructure.Stormwater drains are clogged with garbage and sewage most times of the year. Many of them have been encroached.While the BBMP has been clearing these encroachments, they say 730 illegal structures still need to be removed. “Starting January 2016, we had identified 1,955 encroachments on stormwater drains, and we have cleared 1,225. We did not have enough surveyors. They should be deployed within a fortnight and we will continue the work after that,“ said Siddegowda, BBMP chief engineer, SWD.
 
 Speaking on the death of a construction site supervisor who was washed away in a drain after heavy downpour last Saturday , he said, “We are taking measures to prevent such accidents in the future by working to prevent the overflow of SWDs. This will take time but we can fix the problem.“
 
 “Residents connect their rainwater pipes to our system, causing  ,“ said BWSSB chief engineer Kemparamaiah.
 
 Cleaning and desilting of drains and manholes, ideally be completed before the rain starts, is progressing at a slow pace. “We are using 117 sewer cleaning and desilting machines. On average we are desilting 500 to 600 manholes every per. Major manholes will take more time as they have larger silt deposits,“ Kemparamaiah said.
 
