JAIPUR: The tribal-dominated Udaipur division has recorded poor learning  ,  , among all seven divisional headquarters. The Annual Status of Education Report-2016 released last week showed that tribal-dominated districts — Banswara, Chittorgarh, Dungarpur, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand and Udaipur which come under Udaipur division, had alarmingly poor learning outcomes. The report says that barely 22 students for every 100 students enrolled in class VI were able to solve simple division problems. The state average is 39.7% which is placed in the last 10 states. The highest was recorded by Bharatpur division. It has 57.5% students enrolled in class VI who were able to solve the same set of simple division problems.

 The report further says that only 43.3% of the students enrolled in standard III can read text meant for standard I. This is among the worst learning outcomes even nationally. Bikaner and Jaipur have attained above average scores with 66.6% and 66.1%, respectively. The actual situation is worse.
 
 Notably, some villages in Udaipur division have recorded worst literacy levels in a single digit. The Mahari village with a population of 5,000 has a literacy rate of 19% which explains that most of the students enrolled in the rural areas are first from their families to attend schools.
 
 Explaining the reason behind the poor learning outcomes in Udaipur division, Aziz Ahmed, principal of senior secondary school in Mahari in Kotra tehsil, Udaipur said, “The figures may be worst among all divisional headquarters but it is fast improving. Extreme poverty along with early marriages which is a part of the local culture deters the students from attending school.”
 
  Another shocking revelation by Ahmed says that tribals living in the interiors have very few words of Hindi in their vocabulary. “I have been taking extra classes to teach students Hindi as 99% of the schools are Hindi-medium in the interiors. Here they speak a mixed dialect of Gujarati and tribal language which makes them feel outsider in the Hindi speaking state,” said Ahmed.
 
 The tribal region has 20.6% of students enrolled in the private schools which are again lowest in the state. It explains that poverty in the rural areas has restricted the growth of private schools which have performed better in the learning outcomes at the state and national levels. Bharatpur and Jaipur have highest percentage of students enrolled in private schools with 54.7% and 53.6% students enrolled in the private schools, respectively.
 
 
