BAREILLY: A   building at Lehsoi in   of   collapsed on Monday morning following dust   As the building collapsed before beginning of school, no casualty was reported. The incident has triggered fears among teachers and parents in the city here for the safety of more than 2,000 students who study in 40 ramshackle school buildings.
 
  A teacher, who wished not wish to be identified, said, “Running schools in these crumbling structures is a risk to the lives of students, staff and passers-by. Before spending crores to change colour of uniform, government should first focus on ensuring safety to us. The risk is more during monsoon.”
  
  According to official sources, the state government currently pays a meagre sum of Rs 25 to Rs 200 a month as rent subsidy for these schools. Due to lack of funds, the education department cannot shift these schools from these rundown buildings.
  
  Basic shiksha adhikari Chandana Ram Iqbal Yadav said, “The building at Lehsoi primary school which collapsed was vacant. However, I have directed block education officers to provide me a list of such buildings in rural areas. Once I get the list, I will approach district magistrate to grant permission to sell them.”
  
  Asked about 40 dilapidated school buildings in the city, BSA said, “We have informed the state government about the situation.”
  
  Meanwhile, headmaster of Lehsoi primary school CL Gangwar said the building was constructed in 2000 and given its dilapidated condition now, he had written to basic education department to demolish it as could cave in anytime.
  
  A teacher at Lehsoi primary school, Khemkaran Lal, said, “As the building was in a tumbledown condition, it was used as a store. If it had fallen during school hours, it could have caused severe injuries to teachers and students who sit in the adjoining building.”
  
  In the city, renovation of 40 decrepit school structures is out of question since these buildings are very old. “The schools have been running in rented accommodations even before the formation of Basic   in 1972. Besides, just a meager sum of Rs 25 to Rs 200 is paid as rent subsidy to us. There will a big difference in rents if we are to shift to newer buildings depending on the current circle rates. For a school of at least five rooms and toilets, the current rent will be anywhere between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000. But this does not cover electricity bill, which is thousand times higher than what the government pays,” said an official. 
  
  A teacher wondered if the government will wake up only after any untoward incident takes place.
  Atmalal, a local resident said, “It seems authorities are waiting for an accident to occur. Nobody is concerned about the children who are enrolled in such schools.”
