NAGPUR: Over ten thousand people gathered in Sadar on Sunday to welcome and seek blessings of His Holiness   who arrived in the city for the first time after becoming the 53rd da'i al-mutlaq (spiritual head) of the   community. 

 A marching band comprising Dawoodi   students played proudly to welcome the Syedna. People from all walks of life also enthusiastically gathered to give a grand welcome to His Holiness as he inaugurated the new mosque situated in Sadar. There were tears of joy while the air echoed with shouts of ‘maula, maula’ as the Syedna entered the mosque. People also simultaneously beat their chests (maatam) in front of Syedna in remembrance of Imam Hussain and Maulatena Fatema. 
 
 The mosque is built in an area of 14,000 square feet. Syedna, who has been accorded the status of a state guest, inaugurated the mosque by opening a golden lock. He gave it the title of Al-masjid-Ul-Burhani. His Holiness also conducted the first evening prayer (namaz) at the mosque which was attended by thousands of Dawoodi Bohra community members. 
 
 During his 10-day stay in the city, the Syedna will conduct mass marriages and promote education in the community. He will deliver a discourse on Monday in commemoration of the death anniversary of the daughter of Prophet Mohammad, Maulatena Fatema. The discourse (waaz) will be held at the newly inaugurated Sadar mosque at 10.30am. 
 
 “In the course of the sermon, Syedna is expected to counsel the congregation to remain loyal citizens and contribute fully towards development of the country. He is expected to emphasize importance of education and duties of a citizen towards environment and cleanliness. He is also expected to speak about his initiatives for uplift and fostership of the lesser fortunate and encourage community members to lend a helping hand to those in need,” cited the Dawoodi Bohra website.
 
  People from all over   and other states are expected to attend the programmes. 
 
 Syedna arrived in the city by road from Chandrapur in the afternoon. He is expected to visit nearby towns and cities during his stay. 
 
 “People gathered in huge numbers to have a glimpse of His Holiness. We are very lucky that he has chosen to visit our city this year. It is a historic moment for all of us,” said one of the members of the Dawoodi Bohra community. 
 
 
