MUMBAI: A national   has brought a private bank to book for dishonouring a bearer cheque of Rs 3 lakh issued to a city resident for his ailing mother's hospital expense, despite it being verified twice over the phone by the relative who issued it. 

 The commission on Wednesday refuted   Bank's defence that because of suspicion of the identity of the complainant, Prakash Sheth, it was justified in refusing to honour the cheque. "We do not find merit in this contention, particularly when bank officials verified about issuance of bearer cheque from the account holder on telephone," the commission said.
 
 It ordered HDFC to pay Sheth Rs 10,000 for causing "unnecessary humiliation and harassment". The commission also denied the bank's defence that Sheth was not a consumer under the Consumer Protection Act and did not even qualify as a beneficiary as cheque was not in his name. The commission said that it was clear that the bank officials were informed by the account holder that he had issued the cheque and given it to Sheth. "Therefore, the complainant, in our view, was the beneficiary of the cheque and as such he is covered under the definition of consumer which includes the beneficiary of the service hired or availed," the commission said.
 
 Sheth had moved the   last year after the state commission dismissed his complaint. Sheth told the commission that he had presented the cheque for encashment on May 7, 2010, at about 12 pm. The cashier asked him to come back at 4 pm due to insufficiency of funds. Sheth said that when he returned at 3.40 pm, the cashier asked him to sign on the reverse of the cheque, produce his original photo identification and submit an attested true copy. 
 
 As he was not carrying an ID, the cashier contacted the relative and confirmed issuance of the cheque. Sheth said that despite confirmation, the cashier refused to honour the cheque. He said he was then taken to the branch manager who too confirmed the details from the relative over phone. Sheth alleged that when the relative expressed his inability to be present in person despite the bank manager's insistence, the latter refused to honour the cheque.
 
 Referring to the RBI's answer to an   query submitted by Sheth, the commission accepted that the institution had cautioned banks to be careful while encashing bearer cheques of over Rs 50,000 and insist on verification of ID and address. "No doubt the complainant had not furnished his ID, but the fact remains that admittedly not only the cashier but also the bank manager separately rang up the account holder who verified having issued the cheque and gave clearance for encashment," the commission said. It held that despite this, Sheth's request was denied, the bank is guilty of deficiency in service.
 
 
