PATNA: Jyoti Kumari of BCom (third year) and Urvashi Sahni of BCom (first year) won first prize in poster-making and slogan writing competitions organised by the psychology department of  . The topic of the competition was ‘Suicide prevention’. Sonal Bharti of BA (third year) and Martina of BCom (first year) got the second and third prizes, respectively in poster-making competition. In slogan writing, the second and third prizes were bagged by Payal Gupta of BBA (second year) and Rashmi Dutta of BBA (third year), respectively. College principal Dr Dharmsheela congratulated the winners.

 Awareness programme: An awareness-cum-training programme on school safety was organised at Mount Litera Zee School by the ninth battalion of NDRF on Tuesday. Deputy commandant, NDRF, Hari Charan Prasad delivered a lecture on ‘School disaster management plan’. He talked about role and responsibility of school response team during calamities.
 
 A demonstration on pre-hospital treatment, including blood control, splinting, cardio pulmonary resuscitation technique and lifting of victims was also organised. Mock drill on earthquake safety was conducted in which students and school staff actively participated. Commandant Vijay Sinha said prevention of disaster begins with awareness. “Schools are best venues for creating awareness about disaster. School kids and teachers serve as messenger for building a culture of safety in schools,” he said. The programme was conducted by school principal Mitali Mukherjee and teachers.
 
 Kavi Sammelan: A Kavi Sammelan was organised as part of Hindi Diwas at Anugrah Narayan College on Tuesday. The programme was organised by Hindi department of the college. Poet Satya Narayan, the chief guest, said poetry reflects the poet’s feeling and emotions. He talked about the songs he composed. Head of college’s Hindi department Dr Kalanath Mishra highlighted the work and life of Satya Narayan and his contributions to Hindi. College principal Shashi Pratap Shahi, teachers and students were present at the event.
 
 Patna Science College: Several teachers, non-teaching staff and students of Patna Science College donated their blood at a special blood donation camp organized jointly by Patna University here on Tuesday as part of its centenary celebrations. The local unit of Indian Red Cross Society also supported the camp, which was inaugurated by Patna Science College principal S K Srivastava.
 
 PU dispensary chief medical officer B N Mishra exhorted the students to donate their blood regularly for the help of the needy. PU NSS programme coordinator Atul Aditya Pandey said such camps would be organized in every college. 
 
 
