Ludhiana: Police have booked the father of a private tutor on Saturday for threatening the parents of a minor boy to withdraw a case of   dating back a few years. The tutor was earlier arrested by the police for allegedly sexually abusing the minor boy and getting him videographed with the help of her brothers.

 The police at Division No.5 police station registered a case following directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court, asking the Ludhiana commissioner of police to look into the matter and submit a report, after the boy’s parents approached them.
 
 In October 2014, police had booked a 34-year-old private tutor, following a complaint by the teenager’s father that she had been sexually abusing the boy. The complainant mentioned that the woman was their landlord’s daughter. Later, the police had recovered some sex toys and obscene videos from the place, which were shot by the brother of the accused woman during the sexual act. 
 
 The teenager had alleged that he, along with the parents, used to live in the same building as tenants. There were cordial relations between the two families. Later, the woman would give him free tuitions and call him to her room. The boy alleged that she would often show him blue movies on her laptop. He also alleged that after intoxicating him with medicines and sex drugs, she used to have sex with him without his consent. He claimed that her brothers used to record on camera her sexual acts with him.
 
 Following the complaint, police had registered a case under sections 294 (obscene acts), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), and under provisions for the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, against the woman and her two brothers. Later, one brother was given a clean chit during the investigations.
 
 The teenager’s mother said after the woman was given bail in April 2015, her family started threatening them, while asking them to withdraw the case. “I have been giving written complaints to the police for the past more than one year, but no action was taken,” she said. She also alleged that ASI Rajinder, who had recently been dismissed from service, would demand money from them to move the complaint. “We could not give him money, and so he kept harassing us. Later, we moved the high court and submitted messages and audio recordings of threatening calls made by the father and brother of the accused woman. The court directed the police chief to look into the matter, after which the case was registered,” she said.
 
 Cops at police station Division No.5 said the case had been registered under Section 195-A (threatening any person to give false evidence) of the IPC. 
 
 BOX
 
 CASE TIMELINE
 
 October 18, 2014: FIR was lodged against the woman and her brothers for obscene act, criminal intimidation, common intention, and sexual offences against children. 
 
 January 13, 2015: Police arrested the woman and her brothers from the Ludhiana bus stand, while they were allegedly trying to flee to New Delhi.
 
 January-April 2015: One brother was given a clean chit, while the woman and her other brother were given bail.
 
 
