Panaji: The site allegedly being reclaimed in khazan land in coastal regulations zone (CRZ) I zone on Zuari river bank for the mini-India project at Quelossim was inspected by Goa coastal zone management authority (GCZMA) officials and others on Wednesday. The project has been issued approval in-principle by investment promotion board (IPB), provided the party obtains permission from various authorities. But, the villagers had alleged that the fertile khazan land was being reclaimed illegally by dumping truckloads of mud in a no-development zone (NDZ). This had been confirmed by GCZMA after inspections in the past and notices had been issued to the project promoter. But, the reclamation which had started a few years back continued during the long-drawn election period and declaration of results on March 11, 2017, the villagers alleged. The project promoters informed officials and villagers that it will provide employment to 2,000 persons and has a few positive aspects.  Further, they explained that the mud from the khazan land had been shifted and it was not a reclamation. A floating platform was to be installed at the site and replicas of various monuments from the country would be erected at the site, the promoters said. Cortalim MLA and former forest minister, Alina Saldanha who was present, said that the project may be good, but it was located in a wrong place and it could also end up as a starred hotel. The four sluice gates regulating the river flow in the khazan had been blocked, she said. The project promoter said that the gates could not be opened due to the order of maintenance of status quo. Further, the area was shown as settlement in RP 2021, but Saldanha said that the RP is not yet finalized. The officials pointed out that the reclamation was clear. GCZMA officials, representatives from Goa state biodiversity board, villagers and others were present at the inspection. Cortalim MLA and former forest minister Alina Saldanha, who was present during the inspection, said that the project may be good, but it was located in a wrong place and it could also end up as a starred hotel. The four sluice gates regulating the river flow in the khazan had also been blocked, she said