CHENNAI: Celebrations of   in UP, Uttarakhand elections have spilled over to Tamil Nadu as cadres of the   went around distributing sweets. Behind those celebrations was a desire to taste a similar victory in Tamil Nadu. BJP leaders say the ground in Tamil Nadu cannot be more fertile for the saffron party. "Our president  's next target is Tamil Nadu. He is going to personally supervise the nurturing of BJP into a key player in the state,'' says   wing vice president  . 

 BJP has worked out a multi-pronged strategy to wean away voters from the Dravidian and caste parties and win them over. One of the mantras is catch them young. BJP has planned to appoint campus ambassadors in all the colleges in the state on the lines of Uttar Pradesh. BJP sources said each campus ambassador would spread awareness about BJP's achievements among students and build the party among the youth. "We have appointed such ambassadors in 600 colleges so far,'' said Muruganandham.
 
 Simultanesouly, women's groups would be formed in the colleges. A BJP leader said their aim was to rope in one youth and one woman from every household. For this, BJP has decided to take the self-help group route. BJP workers have been instructed to work closely with self-help groups and arrange them loans under the Mudra scheme.
 
 Senior BJP leader H Raja said, "We are training our cadres on three fronts - the party's ideology, its organisational structure and the techniques to approach an election."
 
 Proactive leaders like Vanathi Srinivasan have started meeting cadres regularly to prepare and train them for upcoming local body elections. BJP leaders have instructed partymen to identify one problem in each ward or panchayat that would strike a chord with voters and make it their campaign plank. 
 
 "We have decided to contest all the 100 wards in Coimbatore Corporation and this time the focus will be on identifying one issue for each ward and base our campaign on that," said Vanathi.
 
 Amit Shah's social engineering, which has come in much praise, would also be tested in TN. A task force led by a senior BJP leader has been formed to hold regular meetings with caste-based outfits and rope them in. "We believe that Devendra Kula Vellalars have a strong inclination towards BJP. We are talking to other SC and OBC leaders well,'' said another functionary.
 
 But BJP has no strong charismatic leadership to wean away cadres from Dravidian parties. BJP was the target of protesters during jallikattu, hydrocarbon or the mid sea fishermen shooting incident, an indication of an anti-Modi sentiment among sections. The saffron party did handle the issues by sending senior leaders like Pon Radhakrishnan to Neduvasal and Nirmala Seetharaman to Rameswaram to mollify protestors. The RSS national meet scheduled in Coimbatore on March 19 where Amit Shah is to participate would throw more light on the way forward for BJP in the state. 
 
