By 
 
One can almost smell it in the air. In a larger sense, it is that one particularly important event in a democracy that determines governments and governance, the fate of political parties and personae and all that these signify . But, it also carries with it a host of memories and feelings, for each one of us, howsoever apolitical we might be.
 
 As a civil servant, it is that time when the entire burden of administration and governance shifts to the districts and the collectors almost wholly work under the direct supervision of the Election Commission. As a result, in the secretariat, there is a touch of relaxed atmosphere because the public policies and programmes come to a virtual halt, both because of the model code of conduct and also because the honourable mini sters are largely in their constituencies campaigning. In the initial years of our service, as a young man, every election meant going through a host of election-related administrative tasks from voter list preparations, looking after polling booths, polling parties, vehicles, police and security arrangements, strong rooms and counting. Later, as a senior officer, one has to travel to various parts of the country: Punjab,  , Bihar or Gujarat to act as an observer for the conduct of various elections. It has been so often and so many times that I can hardly remember an election in the past two decades wherein I was not involved in some capacity . It is probably the first election after so many years that I do not have any electionrelated duty whatsoever and may actually get to vote.
 
 But even before I entered the services, memories of a few elections from my childhood stand out. I particularly remember one election when as a child in a remote corner of India--Dandakaranya in today's   to be precise. There was much political fervour among grown-ups and political parties were distribu ting small tin badges of their respective election symbols--cow and calf and a ploughman. Collecting those colourful badges, regardless of their meaning, was a favourite hobby of us kids. It was to become a milestone election in the history of Indian democracy .
 
 To us kids and even later as young men, elections and their results didn't directly seem to affect us, even when they resulted in change of governments.
 
 But over the years, so much has changed in elections in India! Campaigns are much more subdued, less noisy and flashy compared to earlier years. The photo-voter lists, election I-cards, electronic voting machines, deployment of observers and central paramilitary forces have become so much of a norm in the past two decades that it is now hard to believe for those who started their career two decades ago that none of them existed then, at least in their present forms. All of these have changed Indian elections definitely for the better and fairer even if it has made them somewhat less colourful a spectacle.
 
 So once again, we find ourselves in the midst of elections, and all though it is neither national nor the last ever, the coverage of media would lead us to believe that it is both.But if one takes a step back and looks it from a perspective, it is yet another election in the ever-changing story of the still nascent Indian democracy.
 
 (The writer is a Lucknow enthusiast and an   . He also likes to read, is a sports enthusiast, and a keen nature lover.)
 
