BENGALURU: For the first time in the history of the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIM-B), members of the transgender community walked through the gates as guests. The occasion was Prayaas Day 2017. The annual event organized by the executive post-graduate programme in management (EPGPM) embraces a different social cause every year, with social inclusion being the common theme. In a unique combination, this year saw transgenders from the Payana Foundation interact with orphaned children from  , all with the intent of spreading awareness about transgender rights. 

 Vasu Jha, member of the organizing committee, said the idea to bring together the two groups came to them out of the blue. "A few collegemates and their family members were in a market and we saw some transgenders coming our way. Most of us stepped back, as we normally do when they approach us. However, to our surprise, the kids with us started clapping and playing with them. We could see that children, without their preconceived notions, are much more accepting."
 
 The day-long event enabled the interaction of 40-odd kids and several members of the transgender community, who got along like a house on fire. The children learnt new things about the sexual minority through group presentations, skits and dances.
 
 Sowmya, co-founder of Prayaas, is something of a legend in the community. She fought for the Gandhinagar assembly seat in 2013 on a Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) ticket, alongside heavyweights like Dinesh Gundu Rao.
 
 "To be considered capable of being a leader by even one person is an achievement for somebody from our community. We have learnt through our struggles that being politically active is the only way to fight for our rights, as nobody else will. Though I lost, I came to know that somewhere between 500-1,000 people had voted for me. When I went campaigning I received a lot of support from youngsters and women," Sowmya said, adding that she also received threats.
 
 The event offered a great learning experience for the children. Their joint poster-making and attempts at enacting skits probed stereotypes normally associated with the community. Amrutha, Sanjana, Mahalakshmi, Nethra and their friends appeared at home with the transgenders as they happily chatted away. The name of the community-based organization (CBO) comes from the Sanskrit word payana, meaning journey.
 
 "It's symbolic of our journey towards equality. We want to be a part of mainstream society with equal rights. People should recognize that we can also contribute to society. Through our work, we try to make these transgenders more capable, confident and aware of their legal and medical rights through counselling," said Yash Sharma, co-founder and board member of Payana.
 
 Saroja from Madurai, one such transgender associated with Payana, was reduced to tears as she took to the stage to express herself.
 
 "In the minds of many, transgenders are equal to the devil. They treat us with so much disgust. Even our families have abandoned us. But still we want people to know that we don't want money, only your respect," Saroja pointed out. 
 
 
