MUMBAI: A 17-year-old   girl was gang raped on several occasions by eight men, including her boyfriend and a minor. The girl who was being sexually abused for eight months is now pregnant.

 The   police in Bhayander (east) arrested five suspects, including a 17-year-old. 
 
 The girl who resides with her parents and five siblings was friendly to a 20-year-old boy residing in her locality since three years. Eight months ago he asked her to accompany him to a secluded spot in Bhayander (east). He raped her underneath a water tank after threatening to harm her parents and siblings.
 
 Three days after the sexual abuse, he called her to the same location and raped her again. He then telephoned three of his friends, all known to the girl. The friends took turns to sexually abuse her. 
 
 Fifteen days after the gang rape, she received a call from her boyfriend to meet him near the water tank. She reached the spot and he raped her. He then telephoned three other friends who took turns to sexually abuse her. They also had oral sex with her. 
 
 Just when the girl, who has studied upto class six, thought the abuse was over, her boyfriend's pal asked her to meet him near a public toilet in Bhayander (east). He raped her in the toilet three to four times thereafter. He even took her to a creek at   in Bhayander (east) and raped her on two occasions. In the meantime, her parents moved residence from one locality to another.
 
 On April 6 when the girl began vomiting her mother got suspicious. A medical test showed she was 45-days pregnant. On Thursday, they filed a police complaint. 
 
 Five of the suspects were picked up from their homes. Four of them have been remanded to police custody. The minor suspect has been send to the   Children Remand home. Three suspects are absconding. Two police teams have been formed to nab them.
 
 Police are investigating if the boyfriend, who is the main accused, sought favours in cash and kind to allow his friends to rape the girl. 
 
 Police said that the boyfriend used to boast about having sex with the girl. Police are investigating if the accused had recorded the sexual acts on their cellphones.
 
 The eight accused have been booked for gang rape (376 (2), unnatural sex (377) of the IPC and under sections of the Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.
 
