JAISALMER: The   (WII) and   will embark on a large-scale survey to assess the status of Great Indian Bustard (GIB), associated wildlife and its habitat in the Thar desert. The exercise will be carried out during March 17 to 25 under the supervision of Y V Jhala, CCF G S Bhardwaj, CCF Anoop K R and famous scientist and census enumerator  . 

 The survey is set to be a mammoth effort by volunteers and front-line staff to systematically sample 20,000 sq km landscape within seven days following occupancy and distance sampling designs. Trained field biologists who will volunteer for this exercise are also reaching Jaisalmer.
 
 CCF Anoop K R said that the census at national level of Schedule I wildlife, which is on the verge of extinction including the Great Indian Bustard and many other rare species will start from March 17 at the Desert National Park, which is spread over in Barmer, Jaisalmer and Jodhpur including Pokhran field firing range, and will continue till March 25. In the census, many biological researchers, bird scientists and officers of DNP will take part in coordination with the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun.
 
 Eight ramps have been identified for the survey at Myajlar, Sudasari, Ramgarh, Mohangarh, Rasla, Ramdevra, Pokhran, Bhaap. Around 20,000 sq km area has been identified for the census and 120 grid blocks of 12 by 12 sq km have been made, Anoop K R said.
 
 He added that as the GIB breeding season has started we will get help in the census.
 
 The entire census will be done in a scientific manner and birds will be tracked through GPS under the supervision of Sutirtah Dutta. 
 
 In total, 40 teams have been made. The teams will also speak to villagers for the census. 
 
 CCF   said that this census is very important from every aspect, especially for GIB, because 70% of the GIB population in the world is in Jaisalmer and many schemes are going on to conserve GIB, which is on verge of extinction and results have been good. Last year, two godawans hatched from eggs.
 
 He added that this time, special arrangements have been made for the census. Counting of chinkara, black buck, rabbit, wild cat, desert fox and many desert wildlife will form part of the survey.
 
