It was said to be   and Nefertiti’s secret to looking beautiful, Alexander used it for healing purposes, the Romans and Greeks employed the powers of the green gelatinous plant, and it has been in use in ancient Chinese and Indian medicine. Here’s more on why you should choose the nourishing properties of   in your   regimen, today...

 
  
  
 Aloe vera works wonders on inflamed areas as it has a cooling effect. Says   Dr Soma Sarkar, “It’s a must to have at home as you can use it on burn areas or even for irritation. It soothes the area for the time being. But avoid using it on open cuts. Aloe is also a good moisturising gel. It’s also used for post-laser treatments as it can cool down the skin.” 
 
 
 With summer coming up, it may be a good idea to keep a tube or jar of aloe handy in your purse as it effectively removes skin tan. Laser expert Dr Apratim Goel says, “Aloe hydrates the epidermal cells and balloons them. Tanning is nothing but the redistribution of pigment (melanin) in the skin. When you apply aloe vera on the skin it becomes lighter due to this effect and the epidermal skin starts shedding out. Aloe also contains vitamin A, C and E (vitamin C helps to lighten the skin). I’d advise adding other sources of vitamin C to it, too, like lime juice, to aid brightening and tan removal. Anyone can try this.” 
 
 
  
  
 Says dermatologist Dr Shefali Trasi Nerurkar, “Aloe vera has a calming action and is apt for irritated and dry skin. The gel also helps battle inflamed acne (red coloured pimples). One of aloe’s biggest advantages is that it is accepted by most skin types. When used in face packs, it soothes down the face. It can be used in a variety of preparations, depending on the skin type, like with honey or with fruit pulp or even with yoghurt. But you have to see what suits you best. It can also be used in anti-aging cream as it builds the water content of the skin.” 
 
 
 
  
  
 To treat tired and wrinkled skin under the eyes, gently rub aloe gel or cream into the skin area. It reduces puffiness and moisturises the skin, keeping it supple and smooth. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Want bouncy, silken hair? Try aloe. Says skin and hair expert Nirmala Shetty, “Usually, hair follicles don’t receive benefits of a product easily, but aloe works as you can massage it into the scalp. It has vitamins B and C and as well as different minerals. I always prefer using it over commercial products. Aloe helps with hair fall. If you feel itchy while using aloe that is because the scalp is dry. So, first massage the scalp with coconut juice and then add aloe to it. To use it, freshly cut from the thick leaf.” How often can one use it on the hair? “Even once or twice a week is great, as long the quality of the aloe is good,” she says.
  
 
  
  
 The green juice is prized for its medicinal properties. Says   Tripti Gupta, “Aloe vera juice makes the body more alkaline as it neutralises   levels and maintains the right PH balance of the body. Take it early in the morning as it acts as an antacid. For someone with heartburn or acid reflux this is especially helpful. It also helps is alleviating any constipation when combined with fiber in the form of vegetable juice or fruit. Organic aloe juice is recommended as it has been treated for impurities which are present in the natural aloe vera leaf.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Many people make the mistake by cutting the plant and using it on the skin, but do not do so. “When you cut open the plant, other secretions in it also come out and those may irritate the skin. Instead use aloe in a cream or gel base,” advises Dr Sarkar.
 
 
 
  
  
 Here’s an acne-fighting mask. Mix aloe vera and pure honey in a bowl. Leave this on the skin for 20 minutes. Rinse off with warm water.
 
 Grind aloe vera, coconut milk and curry leaf together. Extract the juice, sieve it and massage this into the scalp after a hot oil therapy. 
 
 
 
 
