MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Wednesday directed the   ( ) to take action and pass final orders for demolition or deduction of height of 110 buildings which are inside the approach funnel of the Mumbai airport, within two months. The approach funnel is a space earmarked for safe landing and takeoff.

 These buildings are situated in areas such as Ghatkopar, Chembur, Vile Parle, Santacruz, Bandra and Andheri. A bench of Justice Vidyasagar Kanade and Justice C V Bhadang passed the order after it was informed that obstacles in respect of 110 buildings were identified in a 2010-11 survey conducted by the   and the list was forwarded by  , the airport operator, to the DGCA, but no action has been taken.
 
 
 
 
 The court heard a PIL by ad vocate   regarding the danger posed to aircraft by highrises near the airport. Shenoy argued that no action was taken until the HC earlier had directed to complete the procedure for demolition. “Despite knowing the obstacles they have not taken remedial measures. The appro ach path in the funnel is sacrosanct,“ he said.
 
 The bench said it is “serious“ and the DGCA must act.“Hasten the process,“ said Justice Kanade. Senior advocate Pravin Samdani, appearing for MIAL, submitted that a total of 317 buildings were identified in a 2015-16 survey and even thereafter no action has been taken by DGCA. The judges then directed the DGCA to pass final orders in respect of the remai ning buildings within three months.
 
 Senior advocate Rajiv Chavan, appearing for DGCA, told the court that is too short a time to complete the exercise. The judges said the aviation regulator must at least start the process. “You can't sit and wait for an accident to happen. You have to deal with it ruthlessly . You can't feel bad for builders or residents,“ said Justice Kanade.
 
 The court directed that on ce a final order is passed by the DGCA, the planning authority or the owner shall demolish the obstacles. The judges took note that under the Aircraft (Demolition of obstructions caused by Buildings and Trees etc.) Rules, 1994, the order has to be served on the owner as well as on the collector so that the order is implemented immediately. It directed that the collector shall ensure compliance with the rules.
 
