CHENNAI: At one of Business Network International’s meetings, Nandhini Priya found herself fascinated at the way the leading networking and referral organisation expanded the scope for advocates, businessmen and traders who participated in it. And she envisioned how the same template could be used to empower women. “Especially those running micro-businesses and lacking the platform to get their share of clientele across the country,” she says.

 So she formed the   a month ago to bring women entrepreneurs together under one network. On May 7, PeN will organise its first trade fair at   in   - hosting about 90 stalls by women entrepreneurs, financial service and insurance agents, and craftswomen.
 
 “There are women who have little free time in their hands after working for their families all day; there are stay-at-home moms with tremendous potential. All they need is a purpose and a platform to keep them engaged, and PeN Association aims to be that,” says Priya, , who also runs a free IAS study circle for aspirants in the city. “The biggest challenge staring at any micro-business entrepreneur is customers. While they typically start with their immediate neighbourhood and go on to cover their friends and family, getting their products and services to hit prospective markets is a tough task.”
 
 Yasha Krishna of Lucknow, who came to Chennai five months ago after getting married, has been looking for a platform to sell the famed chikankari work. What started small with a Facebook page a few months ago will face its first real test at PeN’s trade fair. “I used to sell kurtis, dress materials and sarees online. There is already much publicity for the trade fair. For the first time in a new city, I will get a sense of what real business is about. Following the exhibition, I’m hoping for an increase of at least 40% in sales,” says Krishna.
 
 While for startups the trade fair is expected to double up as a lesson in marketing, competition and clientele, for those such as the women of vocational training from The Banyan, it translates to sheer recognition. Jute products, baskets, handloom and jewellery created by these inmates will be displayed at the expo and according to Mary Sasikala, their skill development and production manager, 'be a validation to how far they have been mainstreamed.' 
 
 “This platform is much bigger than the IT companies and schools we’ve been selling to all these years. It will show these women they are respected for their work,” she says.
 
 “In the future, we would like to create a website exclusively for these women to exhibit their products, skills and services. It will be an alternative to portals such as Flipkart and  , which come with their own terms, conditions, and costs,” says Priya.
 
