Visakhapatnam: With accidents becoming a frequent affair in the city limits, the police department has proposed to the state government several new measures including enhancement of the number of traffic wing personnel. If the proposal is approved, then the Port City will have an IAS officer posted as deputy commissioner of police (DCP) for the traffic wing and more   stations. 

 The city has seven notified traffic police stations of which only two have circle inspector rank officers. The present strength of the city traffic wing is 561 including one additional commissioner, one assistant commissioner of police, nine circle inspectors, 25 sub-inspectors and 36 assistant sub-inspectors. But thanks to the recent transfers in the city police department, the number of traffic personnel has come down even further. 
 
 According to sources, the shortage of personnel is making it difficult for the traffic wing to man the 73-km stretch of national highway passing through the city as well as the busy junctions. Moreover, the lack of service roads on either side of the national highway and foot-over-bridges besides insufficient illumination near sharp turns are increasing the risk of accidents. 
 
 According to statistics provided by the traffic wing, more than a hundred major and minor accidents occur in the city each month in which on an average, at least one person dies and more than a hundred people are injured. Around 1,450 accidents have been reported in 2016 of which 352 people died and 1,477 sustained injuries. 
 
 Sources said there are nearly 8 lakh vehicles in the district of which 80 per cent ply within the city. Though traffic cops collected Rs 9.25 crore as fine by registering 4.96 lakh cases under the Motor Vehicle Act in 2016, it has not helped in reducing the rate of accidents. The number of drunken driving cases also increased with 37 persons getting convicted by the court last year. 
 
 “Traffic management is not only a traffic cop’s responsibility. There are many issues involved in it. Cars being parked along the roads due to absence of cellar space, hawkers occupying the roads, occupied footpaths, no approach road to cellars, and absence of important sign boards lead to accidents and traffic chaos. The concerned departments should work together to solve the problems,” a senior traffic cop told TOI. 
 
 “The National Highway Authority of India does not maintain the national highway properly and motorists often flout norms and get away with it. All these add to the increasing number of accidents,” the cop said, adding that the fine imposed on violators is minimal and does not make a difference to most motorists. 
 
 
