HOSHANGABAD: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief   has expressed concern over the rise of the banned terror outfit ISIS while addressing a gathering at Bankhedi in Hoshangabad on Thursday. Bhagwat said fundamentalist groups like ISIS are a threat to the world. “They are killing innocents and there seems to be no solution to the crisis”, he said.

 Earlier, on Wednesday, Bhagwat had said that Indian Muslims are Hindu by nationality—a statement that caught wide attention. He made the statement during his visit to Betul. The chief had also visited the jail where former RSS leader   was kept after the Sangh was banned following the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi.
 
 In Hoshangabad, he spoke about ISIS and the dangers the terrorist groups pose to humanity. During the speech, he also stressed on the need for organic farming. Bhagwat had arrived in Bankhedi ( ) on late Wednesday night to mark the silver jubilee year of Bhau Saheb Bhuskute Smriti Lok Nyas run by RSS.
 
 “India is poised to become ‘guru’ - a global power in the coming days. The nationalism nurtured in the country will lead to global well-being. The spirit of nationalism here does not mean creating a control over other nations,” he said. “To become a force to be reckoned with in the global sphere, our country needs to emerge as a more powerful nation,” the RSS chief added.
 
 Bhagwat also called for ending caste discrimination and said only an equitable society can lead to a strong and proud community. “The development of family and village is key to a country’s economic prosperity,” he added.
 
 Bhagwat said it was important to remove the social ills.
 
 RSS chief pitched for societal unity. “Our languages are different, regions are different, creeds are different, but we all have the same culture. The world recognizes us as the Hindu culture,” he said. “History of our country has been such that none of our rivals won here on his own, but due to differences amongst us. Hence, if we don’t forget our differences, then the Constitution won’t be able to protect us,” he said
 
 Bhagwat said the RSS was not opposed to other faiths and that its followers should offer help to anyone who needs it, even as they work towards building a strong and global Hindu society.
 
 
