MUMBAI: The famous verses of poet  , 'Dekh baharein Holi ki', rang in the air as the festival of colour unfolded on Monday. Theatre director Salim Arif as well as the announcers of Vividh Bharati used this classic to greet friends and listeners.

 Sunday evening small groups of people gathered in temple compounds, housing societies and street corners to light the  . "The mahurat ended at 8.23pm so we started shortly before 8.00pm. Since it was Sunday more residents could join," said Advait Narayan from Sion.
 
 On Monday the squeals of little children erupted in the air as early as 8.00am. "They will laze in bed on any other holiday but rise eagerly for Holi," laughed Andheri resident Pradnya Jore who followed her kids two hours later. She was careful to oil her children's hair and smear their arms as well so that the colour would wash off easily.
 
 This year the civic authorities had not imposed a water cut anywhere in the city owing to a good monsoon in 2016. Yet Mumbaikars do seem to have developed a conscience against wasteful use of water. On Monday revellers made the most of water guns, and buckets in a few cases, but the once omnipresent rain dance with lavish artificial showers is a thing of the past.
 
 The growing demand for safe eco-friendly colour has prompted manufacturers to affix labels on their packs. Customers scarcely know whether the costly bright powders that smell and feel exactly like regular gulal are in fact herbal or organic as they claim.
 
 Ritu Rawat, a manufacturer of herbal colour from Ghatkopar, explains the difference. "  made from fruit, vegetables and flowers are very expensive, often Rs 800 per kg, so they are out of reach of the common man. Herbal colours on the other hand come for Rs 100 per kg," she said.
 
 Housing societies purchased jalebi, ghear, gujiya and thandai from the regular counter of the local halwai but were directed to a discreet back door to pick up their consignment of bhaang.
 
 Law enforcement authorities who work 24/7 kept a hawk eye on revellers albeit with a light baton.
 
 Mumbai Police joined in the fun as well using its Twitter handle to say, "Your every unholy action will have an equal and opposite reaction from us.Gentle reminder today before you indulge in something unwarranted, We Are On Duty."
 
