NEW DELHI: The cops were fighting no ordinary man at the   on Sunday.  , who had stabbed his father and attacked neighbours, had rigged up the kitchen into which he had bolted as a gas bomb. A cop recovering from burn injuries at   said that Matta behaved like a fidayeen terrorist for 45 minutes before being overpowered.

 Sub-inspector Pawan, formerly of Indian Navy, said that aided by his training on dealing with gas fires on the high seas, he improvised a fireproof armour for sub-inspector Nishakar, one of the first to enter the house. As soon as the cops struck down the main door at apartment number 32, in which Matta had taken refuge after murdering his father, the ex-merchant navy man locked himself in the kitchen.
 
 Sub-inspector Sanjay said, “When we asked Matta to surrender, he told us to leave saying he would do something dangerous. He claimed that having killed his father, he would do anything to save himself from arrest.” An FIR was registered against Matta on Sanjay’s statement.
 
 Another constable narrated how the police team rescued house owner VK Sharma from the balcony, where he was hiding, and then decided against any drastic action fearing that Matta would blow up the apartment. “There was a strong stench of LPG gas gradually filling the entire house,” the constable said.
 
 “Nishakar and   took positions while constable Gajender kicked the door open. There was a loud blast and Nishakar was blown backwards. The bulletproof vest and helmet saved him from severe burns, though he hurt his arms and face,” said Omvir Singh DCP (east)
 
 Pratap and two others grappled with Matta, who desperately swung cleavers at the cops despite burns on his arms and face. Sources said that Matta, trained in self-defence in the merchant navy, put up a strong fight until pinned down at gunpoint. 
 
 The cops then rappelled down from the balcony to help their colleagues out of the blazing apartment. Three of the injured men were admitted to Safdarjung Hospital with over 40% burns. They are still not out of danger. Six others were discharged after treatment and have been advised to go on medical leave. All nine will be recommended for rewards.
 
 
