MUMBAI:   Kumars appear like any doting parents as they cradle their crying newborn. Their grief and tears become apparent only when the 13-day-old baby’s wrap is removed to reveal his malformed hands and feet.

 “He has no fingers or toes,” said software engineer   while repeatedly wondering how his son would ever eat on his own, hold a pen or handle a computer, like others.
 
 Doctors say the absence of all 20 digits is extremely unusual and rare, but 35-year-old Jitendra finds that far from comforting. The rarity, he feels, should have shown up long before the child’s birth in diagnostic scans. “Why didn’t any of the six ultrasound scans my wife underwent during pregnancy show such disability,” he asked. He found out only when the gynecologist called him during the caesarean section delivery in a Thane nursing home on July 12 to tell him about the absence of fingers and toes.
 
 Amid the trend of pregnant women moving Supreme Court to medically terminate advanced pregnancy due to late detection of a  , the Thane couple is struggling with an ethical dilemma. “Would I have brought such a special needs child into the world when I know half my life is over? I won’t be there to help him as he will need to be throughout his life,” said Kumar.
 
 The couple has in the last fortnight gone through several web searches to find out that fingers and toes should be visible between the fourth and fifth month of pregnancy. Foetal medicine specialist Dr Chander Lulla told TOI internal (transvaginal) scans should be able to show the digits in the third month. “Normal scans on advanced machines should be able to pick up such anomalies in the fourth month,” he added.
 
 At the end of each of the six scans, the Kumars would ask radiologist Dr Dhanashree Joshi if everything was well. “We don’t blame anyone for the child’s problems, but we should have been informed about it,” they say. The family is considering various actions but has been busy managing the  . “Moreover, we need to concentrate on our child’s rehabilitation instead of pursuing legal battles that could take decades,” said Jitendra.
 
 When contacted, radiologist Dr Joshi said sonography has its limitation as a modality of diagnosis. “Of the six scans, only the 19th week scan looks at anomalies while the rest are mere growth scans,” she said. She further said that as per the anomaly scan protocol, doctors first look for major life-threatening anomalies and, if found, they look for other minute details like fingers.
 
 “Looking at fingers isn’t easy because the child’s fist may be clenched. Moreover, just because fingers couldn’t be visualised doesn’t mean they are absent,” said Dr Joshi, adding that isolated digit problems in the absence of any other associated abnormality is extremely rare.
 
 Dr Jignesh Thakkar of the Indian Radiological and Imaging Association said scans can at times not reveal finer details. “In a situation that the child’s turned and we can’t see too well, it would be best to ask the mother to return for a scan a few days later,” he said. Dr Lulla said doctors should ensure the open hand is visible in at least one of the scans. Radiologist Bhavin Jhankaria said misses can happen.
 
