TRICHY: They are easily available, look sleek and are gradually eating up the sale of domestic brands. But not many seem to know that   in any form are banned from selling in the country. Brands like Black, Mond, Karaam and Sampoerna are widely being consumed and easily available in Trichy. 

 What’s more, most of these brands do not display details of ingredients on the packs in blatant violation of the law of the land and causing more damage to public health than the domestic brands. However, since they are cheaper compared to the domestic brands, sales have been going up in recent times. While poor monitoring from authorities is largely blamed for their availability, lack of stringent regulations in the Cigarettes & Other Tobacco Products Act 2003 too has been encouraging their penetration in the market. These cigarettes largely enter the state from Chennai and Tuticorin ports from where they are supplied to various parts of the country by road. Airports are another vital entry points for these products. 
 
 Apart from heath department officials in the district and city and food safety department, the police too can crack down on the illegal sales of banned tobacco products, but hardly is it done. “Imported cigarettes are seized at least twice a month by customs officials from passengers in the Trichy airport. This is just the tip of the iceberg as a large chunk of the packs makes its way to the market for illegal sales,” says president of   S A Sayeed. 
 
 While frequent incidents of seizure hint at Trichy being a potential market, there are no stringent provisions to create fear among the smugglers too. Since it is not a criminal offence under the act, the guilty cannot be punished for the crime, added Sayeed. 
 
 Petty shops across the city depended on the sales of such tobacco products for their livelihood, said honorary member of Trichy intra city development endeavor (Tides) H Ubaidullah. He said these shops were being forced to promote such banned cigarettes and tobacco products in the city. Although consumption of gutka and pan masala is not common among the residents, it is mostly brought from north India and consumed in some parts of the city. Areas around town hall, Woraiyur and Gandhi Market witness good sales of gutka and pan masala but food safety department denies this. 
 
 Designated Officer, food safety wing of Trichy, Dr C   says there was no seizure of gutka and pan masala in the city limit in recent times. However, he admits that there are several new products which look similar to gutka that are available. Former city health officer   M   says that many of the districts have not constituted the vigilance committee which is mandatory under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003 or COTPA, 2003. Headed by the district collector, the team needs to keep a check on the sales of such banned products, she said. 
 
