MYSURU: The   will have to wait for some more time to get a new vice-chancellor. 

  The meeting of the search panel constituted for selecting the names of three professors for the post on May 22 has been postponed, which is attributed to the controversy surrounding the decision of the committee to hold the meeting at New Delhi. 
 
 Though there is no bar to hold the panel meeting outside  , the panel's decision had come under the scanner and has invited criticism. Following objections, the governor-chancellor Vajubhai Vala stepped in and asked the government to hold the meeting in Karnataka, sources told TOI. After the panel's May 12 decision, the governor received a report and he acted, they stated. While all the preparations for the meeting was complete, it was put off following the governor's directive.
 
 The University of Mysore, which turned a hundred years in July 2016, is serving without a VC for four months now. Though the varsity's headquarters is located in CM Siddaramaih's home town, the government has failed to nominate the VC since January 10. This comes amidst the controversy surrounding the two heads of the varsity-the in-charge VC Dayanada Mane and registrar R Rajanna-at loggerheads with each other. They have accused each other of maladministration and approached the government seeking action.
 
  The VC's post is vacant after K S Rangappa demitted office after completing his four years term on January 10. After Rangappa demitted the office, Yeshwanth Dongre served as the in-charge VC for six weeks. Mane is officiating as the VC since February 20. 
 
  The panel met on May 12 for the first time where it vetted over 150 applications received and shortlisted twenty candidates. The second meeting was scheduled at the UGC headquarters at New Delhi. "The meeting is postponed by the government, which has not assigned any reasons for its decision," sources in the varsity told  . The next date for the meeting is also not specified in the communication received by the varsity late on Friday evening, they noted. 
 
  The panel headed by former VC H P Kincha had met at Bengaluru in which two members-- Professor H M Maheshwaraiah, who is the VC of the   and V S Chauhan who is a member of the UGC-were present. Another member Hari Gautham, who is the former chief of the UGC, was absent as he was not well. 
 
  As Chauhan is officiating as the in-charge chief of the UGC, and Hari Gautham is from Delhi, the meeting was scheduled at the UGC headquarters, which was a first in the annals of history of the varsity. Given Chauhan's engagement at New Delhi, the meeting is not likely to be rescheduled anytim e this month, sources noted. 
 
