BENGALURU: At a time when India is putting in place new policies to curb   and deaths, discrepancies in data relating to road deaths, released by two different Central agencies, point to gaps in the system that can affect effective planning and policy implementation.

 According to data accessed by TOI, the difference in the number of people who died in road accidents according to the   (NCRB) and the   (MoRTH) is 2,574.
 
 The latest compilation made public by the NCRB shows that in 2015, India lost 1,48,707 lives to road deaths, while the MoRTH data puts the figure at 1,46,133.
 
 The World Health Organization (WHO), which has mandated that countries must halve the number of road deaths by 2020, says that discrepancies in data are a major fallout of data collection methods, and that they impact implementation of   policies.
 
 And, even as India tries to put in place policies, such as the Good Samaritan Law, 2016, the country overtaking China so far as deaths in road accidents go has been a pain point.
 
 Experts say that such discrepancies in data highlight the need for a uniform data collection method and scientific road crash investigation mechanisms in India.
 
 Shaji Cherian, director of operations at SaveLIFE Foundation says
 
 “When we say scientific investigation, it should reveal why that happened and who or what was the main cause. The easiest way cops get out with is by slapping a case of negligence on the driver. How many times have the contractor been penalized for constructing a poor quality road?”
 
 Tamil Nadu, which he says witnesses the highest number of road deaths, has prepared a detailed questionnaire that an investigating cop has to fill. Experts also point out that it’s very important to understand why accidents are happening because the ground realities will help in framing the right type of road safety policies.
 
 “Most countries have a legislation which makes road safety implementation mandatory, which is still underway in India. Now that India has signed the Brasilia Convention to halve the road deaths by 2020 and aims to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SGD) 2030, it is framing one but is still being debated by the standing committee of Parliament. We need to have hefty penalties for offenders but that should be rationalized as well,” Cherian added.
 
 -----
 
 Road Accidents cost 3% of GDP
 
 The erstwhile   (now NITI Aayog) had estimated the annual cost of road crashes in the country to be around 3% of India’s GDP. SaveLIFE, a Delhi-based NGO that helped the government frame the Good Samaritan Law, has analyzed that it translates to about Rs 4.07 lakh crore — going by the size of the GDP in 2015-16, which was Rs 136 lakh crore. The loss, it says, is five times the budgetary allocation of MoRTH.
 
