KOLHAPUR: Milk farmers and opposition members of the milk district cooperative held a meeting to explore legal options to challenge the validity of the annual general meeting ( ) of  .

 Farmers will submit a petition to the milk registrar questioning the validity of the annual general meeting (AGM) on Tuesday.
 
 Former minister of state and member of state legislative council   said, “We were asked to submit written questions before September 9. But some people took control of the mic. As per the cooperative act, the chairman and secretary of the cooperative can read out Gokul’s annual account report. But this time it was read out by Mahadev Mahadik without having any right to do so. Farmers were not allowed to ask question and suddenly the national anthem was played at the end of the meeting.”
 
 Patil said, “Executive directors of Gokul tarnished the great 55 year tradition of the milk cooperative. Though the directors failed to answer the question raised by us last year, they at least listened to them. This year however, farmers were deprived of their right.”
 
 He further added, “Gokul is being run by Mahadev Mahadik as private company when he bears no office in the milk cooperative. We have decided to meet the milk assistant registrar on Tuesday to ask the AGM was legally valid. Then we will approach the court.”
 
 Veteran leader of   and   Sampatrao Pawar Patil said, “The   district has flourished through the cooperative movement. It has a great progressive tradition.”
 
 He also said, “The Gokul AGM killed the spirit of the cooperative movement. Wrong people have entered the cooperative sector and they have lead the movement astray. Farmers should not neglect such things. They should come forward. The cooperative movement will collapse otherwise.”
 
 The veteran social worker and cooperative expert   said, “Section 75 of State Cooperative Act allows the holding of annual general meeting. It is mandatory to read out annual accounts by the auditor. As per various articles of the section directors can be disqualified for not allowing farmers to ask questions as well as not reading out the annual and audit reports.”
 
