MOGALTUR: A day after  ,   in Mogaltur mandal awoke to the tragic news of the death of five of its youngsters at the Ananda aqua food processing unit on Thursday.   are even more rankled as they had been complaining about the unit after several workers were injured in the past, but all their pleas had fallen on deaf ears.

 Villagera said that Thursday’s tragedy was waiting to happen and was by no means the first. Fifteen workers were seriously injured earlier due to the negligence of the management. This includes three workers who were injured while handling chemicals inside the storage unit in 2012 and four workers who suffered burns two years later.
 
 Cases had been filed against the unit in the Mogaltur police station, but no action was taken to stop the rot. “When we approached the police, they wanted us to settle the matter with the management instead of fighting,” said  , a villager.
 
 Villagers said that workers labour in hostile environments inside the unit, which does not follow safety standards and protocols. “It is mandatory for the management to provide safety masks to workers who are engaged to clean the chemical tanks. Five innocent workers have died only because of the unit’s negligence,” B Balaram, president of Aqua Food Park Vyathireka Samithi, told TOI.
 
 The food processing unit, located in the middle of the village, has been spreading pollution from the start. The unit started with shrimp processing in 2004 and soon, villagers saw that the water in the canal flowing throw the area was getting increasingly polluted. “The unit was releasing effluents and poisonous chemicals into the canal, but who cares about our lives?” an angry villager asked.
 
 The processing unit belongs to Ananda group of companies, which is now setting up the Godavari Mega Aqua Food Park Ltd (GMAFPL) at Tundurru village in Bhimavaram mandal. “We are opposing the new aqua food processing unit. These units release chemical wastes into the water and gases into the air,” Balaram said.
 
