Madurai: In the case relating to a giant well that allegedly belongs to wife of the former Tamil Nadu chief minister O Panneerselvam, Theni district collector N Venkatachalam filed his inspection report before the Madras high court Madurai bench on Tuesday. It said there was no statutory prohibition on granting electricity connection to the motor pump set in the land which was in the name of one R Suburaj. 

 However, the court directed Panneerselvam’s wife Vijayalakshmi to respond to the case that sought direction to the Tangedco to disconnect electricity supply given to her alleged land, as the petitioner said that the said Suburaj was the benami of Vijayalakshmi. 
 
 A Rengasamy of Lakshmipuram filed a PIL saying that Vijayalakshmi had purchased 18 cents of land in Lakshmipuram village using her husband’s influence and dug a well there. When the villagers opposed the digging of a well there, the former chief minister’s aides pacified them and assured that drinking water would be supplied to them. But, she not only breached the promise but is also drawing water by laying separate pipeline and transporting the same from one village to another for commercial purpose, which was against norms. 
 
 As per the norms of the electricity board, electricity supply should not be given to land situated within 200m from riverbanks. Here, the land and wells were situated within 15m and 17m from the riverbank. And one well is situated quite near the riverbank. However, the Tangedco officials gave electricity connection to the owner of the land, the petitioner said.
 
 Following it, the court directed the Theni district collector to inspect the well. On Tuesday, the collector gave his report. He said “The land is at present in the name of one R Suburaj. The public works department has given proper permission to lay pipeline for transportation of water from the well in question to the land of the same owner. 
 
 Since the land in which the well is situated lies adjacent to odais (streams) no need to follow 200 metres distance criteria for getting electricity connection to the motor pump set. Hence, there is no statutory prohibition for granting electricity connection to the well,” and wanted the court to dismiss the petition. 
 
 The petitioner side raised a dispute over the ownership of the land by saying that Suburaj was the benami of the wife. Following it, the court directed her to respond to the case and adjourned it to August 21.
 
 
