GURGAON: A) Do you feel unsafe when travelling alone in Gurgaon? B) What needs to improve?

 TOI asked women across the city these two questions. These are the answers we got.
 
 My Family prays when I’m driving
 
 1. Dr  , AGE, medical officer, Civil Hospital, Sector 10 
 
 Even when I have evening/night shifts, I need to come home at least once to feed my toddler, when I drive from Sector 9 to Palam Vihar after midnight. Though the distance is not much, the dark streets give me the shivers. It’s a risk I take and my family is on tenterhooks till I reach home safe. Ever since the cops started patrolling on PCRs and putting up barricades on Railway road and street lights were fixed, it’s become more comfortable, though I still drive at full speed.
 
 Do guards have backgroung checks?
 
 2. Atipriya Sarawat, 35, communications professional
 
 There are basement car parks across Gurgaon, in condos, malls and offices. It’s important these are well-lit, manned and secured through CCTV. The city must also invest in CCTV cameras at busy intersections and public places, including parks. The city is bustling with private security guards, but who does their background/security check, like verification for maids, etc? Most importantly, communities need to come together to support and encourage a safe environment. Our attitude has to change from “it’s not my problem” to “it’s my problem, because tomorrow it can happen to me”. And could we curb the mushrooming of liquor shops at every corner, with ‘car-o-bar’ on the road? Probably a heavy fine like Delhi could work.
 
 Patrolling has to increase, but can we trust the cops? 
 
 3. Neha Sood, 34, Ask Wealth Advisors
 
 There’s nothing in the city that gives you confidence as a woman. This morning, the cab driver I’d hauled would not stop talking on the cell phone, despite several requests. We were crossing a derelict area, and couldn’t ask him to stop so that I could get down. Metro gives me the jitters, as the poorly-lit car parks next to the stations, which you have to cross, are places where women are harassed regularly. Then you have the gangs that stop you to tell you that your car is leaking coolant, and then rob you. Till some years ago, I used to feel such harassment probably diminishes once you cross a certain age. But these days, you hear stories of 80/90-year-old women getting raped. For  , women should learn self-defence, but police patrolling has to increase. And hopefully, law-keepers are not law-breakers.
 
 Could we have self defence volunteers?
 
 4. Parul Singh, 39, HR consultant
 
 Gurgaon is notorious for being highly unsafe for women at any time of the day. I’ve lived all my life here. Never before did I feel so insecure and unsafe while walking down a road. When I was studying in DU, I used to get down at a bus stop half a kilometre away and walk down to my home. But I can’t think of doing that now. We could have volunteers in plainsclothes, trained in self-defence, to help people in need, like we have civilian volunteers to manage traffic. Also, more  , more street lights and police patrols would help. Women should also learn some form of self-defence.
 
 Make   responsible for streetlights, slum removal
 
 5. Twinkle Bhayana, 34, homemaker
 
 In the last month alone, we’ve read of several abduction, loot and snatching cases in Gurgaon. Some measures I’d like to suggest to improve security of young women in Gurgaon would be: RWAs should take responsibilities for keeping street lights in working condition and of security. RWAs must ensure removal of jhuggies in construction sites near residential sectors. The police must have more patrol vans and checkpoints, with at least one female staff in each. All companies that have shifts should mandatorily provide cabs to female employees at all times of the day. Police need to be sensitised so that they don’t casually dismiss complaints. 
 
 Security is not a luxury, but a necessity
 
 6. Megha Jha, IT 
 
 If women are not safe even at 7pm — and that’s the case now — then I think this is a matter of grave concern. Considering that Gurgaon is an industrial hub with 35% women employees, the government must take strict action to make it liveable for us. We can’t just wait for the mentality of people to change. We need strict enforcement. Security is not a luxury, it’s a basic necessity. I’m sure every woman today is forced to think whether they are really independent. We’re educating women to go out and stand by themselves, but the news headlines tell us we’re better off at home. 
 
 Cops need to be much more responsible
 
 7. Anjali Sharma, 33, finance manager 
 
 I work at   on Sohna road, and have earlier worked at Cyber City. I’ve always felt vulnerable in basement car parks, especially while working late. Public parking lots are worse, especially the secluded ones. Most of all, the police force needs lots of sensitisation. Often, they are flagrant law breakers themselves, and their attitude towards crime against women is atrocious. They also need to become much more responsive. We were involved in a major accident three days ago — the Uber driver was on the phone despite our complaints — but we escaped miraculously. When we called up the ‘100’ helpline, we were asked to call up the nearest police station. Shouldn’t the call get routed automatically? Cops from the police station, which is hardly two minutes away, turned up after 15 minutes, and were dismissive. 
 
 Improve footpaths, install CCTVs
 
 8. Jasmine Singh, architect
 
 Well-lit and continuous sidewalks, with access for strollers and wheelchairs, dedicated bus stops, drastic reduction of car speeds in residential streets are among things I’ll recommend. Properties adjoining streets should not to have high boundary walls. Instead, these walls should be perforated, so that there are additional eyes on the street. Authorities must focus on making the streets lively by introducing mixed-use spaces. Install easy-to-read signage for directions. Make the footpaths clear, continuous and well-kept, where pedestrians can see each other. Improve general visibility by eliminating hidden/blind corners and dark spots, along with well-lit parking lots and CCTV surveillance.
 
 We always avoid empty roads
 
 9. Jagriti Motwani, 31, PR manager 
 
 Women’s safety is a big concern in Gurgaon. My women colleagues and I always avoid secluded roads, even if that means getting stuck in traffic jams for hours. I’ve been lucky enough not to be a victim, but stories of harassment or molestation of other women gives me the jitters. I feel better deployment of police on roads and ensuring better lighting will help our roads become safer for women.
 
 
