MYSURU: Chief minister Siddaramaiah on Wednesday directed the   ( ) to complete the process to   off the Outer Ring Road to develop a layout. Initially, 2,500 sites will be developed and distributed.

 The plan is to acquire 484 acres of land in the southwest of Mysuru and develop 4,846 sites. But since the land acquisition has run into trouble, the CM asked the MUDA to acquire land in stages and develop the layout. The new MUDA layout will spur growth in the southern parts of the city, which is slated for development given the availability of land and water. 
 
 During the   on Wednesday, MUDA commissioner M Mahesh said that the project to create 4,846 sites at Ballahalli village on the outskirts of Mysuru, with a 50:50 share basis where the farmers whose land will be acquired for the project will be given developed sites, had encountered trouble.
 
 There are issues with acquiring gomala land and other private lands which had caused the delay. A total of 484 acre 24 guntas of government land is available in survey number 24. As marking of the boundary was not done earlier, a preliminary notification was issued on June 2016 to just 381 acres 1 guntas of land, which had clear ownership records. 
 
 As per the land acquisition act section 17, the farmers from whom the land will be acquired, had been issued cognizance letter and as per the available land, a total of 4,846 sites will be developed. “By the end of July this year, MUDA will develop and distribute 2500 sites,” Mahesh said.
 
 RT Nagar sites to be distributed soon 
 
 The MUDA is also developing RT Nagar second stage layout at Kergalli in 89 acres 16 guntas of land, where around 1,078 sites is expected to be developed. The government had approved the project three years back and MUDA which has prepared the estimate list, has sent for technical inspections to PWD, Pollution Control Board and KUWSDB. “KUWSB and pollution board had approved after technical inspection. MUDA will take up the development of sites at RT Nagar,” Mahesh said. 
 
 When CM Siddaramaiah questioned whether there is any legal issues which is causing delay in developing the sites, Mahesh replied that he had changed the advocate for MUDA cases. “The earlier advocate was not competent enough and had to be changed,” he said.
 
