NEW DELHI: Poet, literary critic and professor of English at Jawaharlal Nehru University, Makarand Paranjape emerges as the frontrunner for the post of head of the   (IIAS), Shimla. According to sources from the ministry of human resource development, Paranjape’s name has been considered for the post of director of  , established in 1964 to ‘to provide an environment suitable for academic research in the humanities, and the social and natural sciences.’

 He has over 120 academic papers to his name, and is the author of several poems and short stories and over 200 essays, among other academic credits. He has been a teacher for over 30 years now, of which, the major part has been in the US and India. He started as a teaching assistant at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1980 and returned to India in 1986 as a lecturer with the University of Hyderabad. In 1994, he joined the department of humanities and social sciences,   as an associate professor. Since 1999, he has been a professor of English at JNU’s Centre for English Studies.
 
 According to sources in the ministry, “His name is there as the front runner and in all likelihood is going to be approved soon.”
 
 Paranjape is known for his divergent views in the left-dominated   and has also attracted rants from the "left-liberals" in the campus and outside as well. 
 
 He gave a new twist to “the teach-in series of lectures on nationalism” organized by left-groups of JNU after the arrests of   president Kanhaiya Kumar, and PhD scholars   and Anirban Bhattacharya on charges of sedition. In the 15th lecture of the series, Paranjape started with an epigraph from  : “Revolutions devour their children, nationalism eats its parents,” and went on to question Kumar on facts through his lecture on “India’s Uncivil Wars: Tagore, Gandhi... JNU and what is ‘Left’ of the nation”. In fact, his was the first lecture to be put up by the “Stand With JNU Media Group” on its   page.
 
 "When Kanhaiya came out of jail and gave this talk, I was a convert: I was also swaying and dancing around with everyone. It was a great moment. But what I am going to do today is to emphasize the other performative – where we talk about ideas, we are objective, we are critical, we do not get carried away, we are open-minded, we interrogate and critique ourselves and not just mount attacks on people we disagree with,” said Paranjape during his speech. 
 
