ROHTAK: A final year student at Indian Institute of Management, Rohtak, has opted out of campus placement process to start his venture. Srinikith Raparthi, 23, claims he is keen on creating jobs in energy conservation sector.

 Over 57 companies, including JP Morgan Chase, ICICI Bank, RBL Bank,  , Arcesium, SBI, Yes Bank, Amazon, L&T, Azure Power, IDFC Bank and  , have visited the IIM Rohtak campus this time to hire fresh pass-outs from the post graduate programme in management (PGPM). Students of the 2017batch of PGPM at the institute have got an average salary of Rs 12.3 lakh in the campus placements.
 
 “Working for something, which I believe in, gives me greater satisfaction than working for an MNC. I believe in creating a sustainable business that can have a social impact. I believe in creating employ ment rather than seeking one.And when you believe something is important enough, you do it even if the odds are not in your favour,“ said Srinikith.
 
 Hailing from Hyderabad, Srinikith did his engineering from   (NIT), Agartala, before cracking CAT. He said he was almost ready to set up his prototype of installing solar panels on house rooftops at his hometown initially . Once it succeeds in Hyderabad, he plans to replicate the model at other locations. “Experience and expertise are two things that are needed to get a big project. I believe my start-up would give me both,“ claimed Srinikith, whose father is also a businessman in Hyderabad.
 
 Srinikith said his company will provide energy solutions to residential households and businesses through grid-connected solar rooftop systems.The company will also sell solar power to government distribution companies.
 
 Bizdome Incubation Centre at IIM Rohtak, which has already approved his solar project, has offered mentorship and patching up with prospective investors to adopt the idea.
 
 “Every one of the wannabe managers from IIM Rohtak would like to start an own venture but doing it right after the PGPM degree remains a big challenge,“ Bizdome Incubation Centre managing director Prof   said.
 
