NEW DELHI: Industrial projects in the "non-polluting" category will not have to obtain the "consent" certificate under the air and   control laws - a move intended to reduce clearances and quicken rollout of projects. 

 The decision, likely to attract criticism for diluting green norms, looks to simplify procedures to fast-track real estate projects as well. In building, construction, area development and township projects, proponents will not be required to obtain mandatory 'consent' if they have 'environment clearance'. 
 
 The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has asked state pollution watchdogs to spare such proposed units or establishments from 'consent' under existing Air and Water (Prevention and Control of pollution) Acts. 
 
 Though the move will cut procedural delays as part of the Centre's attempt to spur growth through improved 'ease of doing business', the order covering real estate projects may well be challenged in court. Similar cases are pending in the   (NGT) since early last month. 
 
 According to the CPCB order, issued on February 2, non-polluting industries (white category) will not be required to obtain 'consent to establish' certificate from respective state pollution control boards (SPCBs) whereas the less polluting ones (green category) will automatically be issued 'consent' if they inform the Board in advance the expected date of start-up of their commercial production.
 
 As far as building\construction, area development and township projects are concerned, the proponents will not be required to obtain mandatory 'consent' if they already have 'environment clearance' (EC) for the same. In fact, all the projects, requiring 'environment clearance' either from state authority or Union environment ministry, will be exempted from obtaining 'consent to establish'.
 
 "Such projects may be directly granted consent subject to EC and installation of pollution control devices", said the CPCB order. It has also rationalised consent fee structure for various proposed projects in its order.
 
 The move is, in fact, consistent with the environment ministry's December 9, 2016 notification which brought small projects (size of 5,000 sq metres to less than 20,000 sq meters) within the ambit of 'environmental conditions' through an easy 'self declaration' procedures while spared the bigger ones of time-consuming 'prior' green clearance route.
 
 "One can understand such relief to non-polluting industries. But, what was the hurry to spare the real estate projects when the similar matter under the December 9 notification is pending in the NGT. It's also a violation of the Environment (Protection) Act as well as the 2006 EIA notification", said the Noida-based environmentalist Vikrant Tongad.
 
 "We will challenge the order in the court. It seems the environment ministry wants to bypass the NGT which has already asked the rationale of such concession to residential projects", said Tongad, founder of the Social Action for Forest & Environment (SAFE).
 
 In his note to all SPCBs, the CPCB member secretary A B Akolkar observed that the modification to the mechanism for granting of consent was done to streamline the modalities after discussing the issue in the Board's meeting on December 21, 2016.
 
 
