KOLKATA: Most pub and bar owners in the city seem to be at a loss to comply with the new police rules on using breathalysers on guests and deploying a pool of drivers to drop inebriated ones home.How to bell the cat, seemed to be the question doing the rounds and the owners have decided to go into meet on Tuesday , hoping to find a solution.Though representatives of five-star hotels, such as Park Hotel and ITC, said they were ready to carry out the instructions, the smaller, standalone bars and pubs did not know how to meet the cop stipulations. "As we don't have our own parking lot, guests leave their cars on the road. All that we can do is request the guests, who are high, not to drive back but what if they don't eventually listen? Will we be held responsible for his accident," Surya Sarkar, floor manager of WhatsUp Café, whose representative attended the Lalbazar meeting on Saturday . “Say , someone does leave his car behind with us. Then, if something happens to the vehicle, will we be blamed for the damage?“ Sarkar said they had started requesting their guest not to drive if they were drunk but he wasn't sure how they would react if asked to take a breathalyzer test. “How and who will tell guests to use breathalyzer will be our main agenda at the Tuesday mee ting. Also, since many go pub hopping, it is difficult for us to provide drivers to them as we don't know if they will head home directly ,“ said Abhijeet De of Myx. De, however, added they had approached Ola and Uber to set up kiosks at their pub.

 The debate followed a meeting on Saturday , when cops, led by additional commissioner-I Vineet Goyal, met 30 nightclub and bar officials at Lalbazar and handed out a to-do list. The owners were told their applications to extend bar hours past midnight would be denied if they did not comply with the norms within a fortnight.
 
 The Park GM   said, “It's a good move by the police. At The Park, we provide drops to guests incapable of driving back. We are also tying up with cab companies. We are are running social media campaigns to spread awareness.“ Atul Bhalla of   also said they offered drops. But Sudesh Poddar, president of Hotel and  , said smaller pubs and bars htclubs faced the probems.“ How can smaller places without parking facilities follow the rules? Also, do we have the right to force a guest to use breathalyser?“ said Poddar, who owns   and Song Hay bars.
 
 Sonika, Vikram's friends called to cop station
 
 In an attempt to piece together the events that led up to the fatal car crash, which led to the death of model Sonika Singh Chauhan, the police on Sunday called up Sonika and actor Vikram Chatterjee's two common friends, who were with the duo at a pub hours before the collision last Saturday. The two friends had been called to the Tollygunje police station to record their statements according to their convenience.
 
