CHENNAI: Only a handful of his cabinet colleagues stood up as a sign of respect when he entered the House to resume business in June. Four months after assuming charge as chief minister in the midst of a  , when   entered the assembly on Tuesday, most of the ministers and MLAs in the treasury benches got up to greet him -- a sign of changing times. 

 “Annan Edappadiyar,” as he is popularly addressed by his partymen has comfortably settled into his new role as chief minister. No doubt, Jayalalithaa’s absence is felt. But, Palaniswami has tried to win the confidence of his party legislators and the opposition with his easy accessibility, in a bid to change the “rigid and inflexible” house culture evident during Jayalalithaa’s tenure. 
 
 He got a number of bills passed, including the significant delimitation commission and Goods and Services Tax, with his fractured party remaining united in the assembly. He got his cabinet to clear Bills like Tenancy Act to regulate the rights and responsibilities of landlords and tenants.
 
 In the initial days, the Times Now expose on alleged payoffs for MLAs during his February trust vote sent the house into a tizzy with frequent walkouts by opposition. The gutka scam embarrassed him further, but camaraderie is visible between the treasury benches and opposition. DMK MLAs, who normally remain seated when Jayalalithaa entered the House in the past, cheerfully greet Palaniswami when he makes an entry. “Unlike Jayalalithaa, EPS is very accommodative. We are allowed to speak and they are more amenable,” said a senior DMK MLA. 
 
 When former school education minister Thangam Thennarasu drew attention to the Centre’s plan to merge Central Institute of Classical Tamil, an autonomous institute of Union HRD ministry, with Central University of TN, the chief minister said he “as chairperson of the governing board” had no information about such a move, nor did his government. “I was totally surprised,” Thennarasu said. Jayalalithaa never acknowledged the institute upgraded by DMK chief M Karunanidhi and did not attend the governing board meet as chairperson. EPS, however, religiously follows his mentor on one count – reeling out announcements under Rule 110.
 
 In an attempt to keep the flock together, Palaniswami is generous in praising his colleagues who do their job well. Once he patted R B Udhyakumar saying, “Nalla pesuninga” (you spoke well) when his long ode to MGR saw DMK walking out in protest. Duraimurugan retorted that it resembled an   meeting. But the CM came to the rescue of his minister, drawing applause from the treasury. “We would not be sitting here if not for   and Puratchi Thalaivi. What’s wrong in praising our leaders?” he said. 
 
