DARJEELING: Pro-strike   supporters torched a passenger vehicle in Lebong early on Sunday and another in Sonada late in the evening to send out a strong message to traders and shopowners who had resolved to open shutters after 101 days of shutdown. That, however, couldn’t stop several, including Glenary’s, the popular restaurant-cum-confectionary outlet, from opening doors. Traders, however, are not sure about opening shutters on Monday.

 In Darjeeling’s upper town area, a few roadside stalls opened in Toongsoong, leading off the horse stable in Chowrasta. A few business establishments selling winter garments were also open near the Chowrasta but shut shop by the afternoon. Barring Glenary’s, however, prominent restaurants did not attempt to open.
 
 “The chamber of commerce had taken the decision to open shops and requested us to start business from today. We are also members of the chamber, and obliged. More than that, we have responsibilities towards our 120 staff members, who have to be given their salary and Puja bonus. We have extended support to the strike for over 100 days. We will remain open but if the CoC asks us to close, we will do so,” said Ajay Edwards, the establishment’s owner.
 
 Lalit Gurung, member of the Path Paseli Sangh, expressed gratitude to the traders for opening their shops and helping restore normalcy. “Most of our members opened their shops today. Those who did not did so because they didn’t have raw food or stocks. But we hope they will open on Monday,” he said.
 
 Traders are having second thoughts about reopening their shops on Monday, although around 10% shops opened in the main town. “We took the decision to open on Sunday but the situation does not seem conducive [to opening on Monday],” said a shoe shop owner at  .
 
 On Saturday, the Chamber of Commerce and the Path Paseli Sangh, after consulting with 19 trading associations, had decided to open their shops from 9am on Sunday. The decision turned to apprehension when a taxi ferrying commuters from Darjeeling to Siliguri was set on fire at 5am at Lebong. Shopowners converged on the market at Chowk Bazar and the Motor Stand since 7am, waiting patiently to open their shops. The Lebong incident, however, made the situation tense.
 
 It was then that the cops and district administration intervened. “Police and district administration are there for you. Don’t be afraid of the posters,” Darjeeling DM Joyoshi Das Gupta told the gathered shopowners at Chowk Bazar.
 
 The assurance had an effect, as some traders started opening their shops on Hill Cart Road in Chowk Bazar around 11.30am. A few small shops selling vegetables, clothes and groceries also started opening, in the presence of cops.
 
 Similarly, a handful of sweet shops and tea shops in Beech Galli also opened. However, business was nothing much to speak of because of few customers and no food stock. As soon as the police presence thinned by 2.30pm, most shops downed shutters, with only a handful staying open.
 
