NAGPUR: The atmosphere was charged with emotions and elation with fans of Mohammad   occupying all the seats in Vasantrao Deshpande Hall while others standing in the corridor and sitting on the floor, clapping and applauding, as artistes belted out superhit songs of the legendary singer on Thursday evening. The programme ‘Hits of Mohammad Rafi’ was organized by Swarvedh to mark his death anniversary. 

 The programme started with ‘Man tadapat Hari darshan ko aaj’, followed by ‘Chhalke teri aakhonse’ and ‘Kya hua tera wada’ and encompassed the songs of Rafi highlighting various shades of life. Niranjan Bobde, Nandu Andhare, Akshay Kapse, Isbabul Hassan, Parvathi Nair and   presented solo and duet songs.
 
 Bobde, who conceptualized the event, stole the show with ten solo and duet songs. He also presented ‘Mere mehboob tujhe meri mohobbat ki kasam’ on popular demand. Qawwalis like ‘Parda hai parda’ and ‘Hai agar dushman’ drew tremendous applause from the audience. Andhare presented ‘Chhalke teri aankho se’ and ‘Lakho hai nigaho mein’.
 
 Nair, Kashikar and Hassan presented ‘Aaja aaja mai hu pyar tera’ along with many classics like ‘Acchaji main hari piya maan jao’, ‘Abhi nah jao chhodkar’ and ‘O hasina julfo wali’.
 
 Songs like ‘Gham uthane ke liye', ‘Kuhu kuhu bole koyaliya’, ‘Zindagi bhar nahi bhulegi wo barsat ki rat’, ‘Sai gai gali meri maa’, ‘Aye watan’, ‘Kar chale hum fida’, ‘Badan pe sitare lapete huwe’ and ‘An evening in Paris’.
 
 The singers were accompanied by Gaurav Tagsaye on guitar, Parimal Joshi and Mahendra Dhole on synthesizer,   and Pankaj Yadav on ‘tabla and Deepak Kamble on drums.
 
 Bobde said, “Rafi sahab is like a God for me and paying tributes to him by presenting his songs is like worshipping them. His ability to change tune while singing for different actors was marvellous. He was a gifted singer who sharpened his singing ability with clarity in rendition. There can never be another Rafi. His simplicity reflected his greatness. He would provide each and every word a meaning while singing,” he added. 
 
