HYDERABAD: A core station in the  , the iconic   is scheduled to undergo a   to gain an airport-like ambience with shopping arcades and restaurants. Even as the Centre has cleared the modernisation plans for the 143-year-old station, commuters are readying their wish list.

 The station has been included in the list of 23 stations across the country which will be ‘overhauled’ by private players at a total investment of Rs 4,000 crore. The zonal authorities will chart a blueprint of the new layout soon, but passengers are hoping that the station surroundings will also get a new look.
 
 High on their list of expectations is a clutter-free approach road to the major junction. “It took me exactly 15 minutes to reach the approach road to the station from Punjagutta. But navigating the road outside the station cost me 15-20 minutes. Also, the entrance to platform 1 is a picture of chaos unlike platform 10. This needs to be changed,” said Jayanth Reddy, a passenger.
 
 
  
 
 Passengers also want more parking space and waiting rooms at the station. “If the station is being improved, I would suggest having reclining chairs in waiting rooms. Currently, there is limited space in the retiring rooms,” said Poojitha Rao, another   passenger. 
 
 The station had already seen some development over the last few years under the Centre’s World Class station plan. 
 
 The authorities had built escalators on majority of the platforms, built lifts and set up electronic display boards, surveillance cameras and drinking water kiosks. Facilities such as restaurants, book stalls, waiting halls, cloak rooms, inquiry counters and foot bridges were already in place. What the redevelopment failed to fix was the levels of noise pollution on the platforms. “The noise pollution is quite high because of the constant announcements and also the sheer number of passengers and vendors. I would really like a more relaxed ambience. Also the occasional beggar seen at the station should be removed,” said Lasya N, a techie.
 
 
