MANGALURU: Astrologer Pandith Ramakrishna Sharma has become the latest victim of sting operations by Prof Narendra Nayak, president of Federation of Indian Rationalist Associations. Nayak has reportedly exposed the astrologer, who allegedly   by promising cure for reproductive problems.

 Adding to Sharma’s woes, a woman came forward on Saturday claiming that the astrologer had swindled and also molested her. 
 
  station has registered an FIR against the astrologer under Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property).
 
 Nayak had conducted the   along with Pramila, a DYFI activist, who posed as his daughter, last week. He said they --as “father-daughter duo” -- had gone to the astrologer saying the woman was married for eight years, but was sent home as she could not conceive. The pandit assured them that he could solve her problems and demanded money. Nayak later called police and got Sharma  , when the latter failed to see through Nayak’s deception.
 
 After the sting operation, Nayak had given his cell number to the employees and owners of a laundry and a hotel near the building where the astrologer operated, requesting them to direct any victims who wanted to fight for their rights, to get in touch with him.
 
 On Saturday, Nayak got a call from a young woman, who claimed that she had paid the pandit Rs 9,000 and wanted to recover it from him. Narrating her ordeal, the woman said she was sexually harassed by the pandit. According to her, the pandit told her that her “bad time” would continue until he performs some magic ceremony, which requires her to sleep with him. She said she had escaped two attempts of molestation from the astrologer and his “guru.”
 
 The woman, daughter of a separated couple, is staying with her mother. As her father was not paying for their maintenance, their financial condition was not sound. She was also unemployed and hence decided to seek the services of the pandit, after seeing his advertisement on a TV channel. 
 
 After the case was filed, two members of the Janvadi Mahila Sanhgatane have come forward to help the women in her fight for justice. “We are supporting her and I have promised to take her wherever needed. The people who exploit helpless women should get maximum sentence under the law,'' said Nayak, adding a big racket is thriving in the state.
 
