After their maiden venture, the gritty ' ' (2015), and the recent family entertainer, ' ', actress   and her brother Karnesh Sharma are all geared up for their next. The film, which will be made under their banner, Clean Slate Films, will be co-produced by KriArj Entertainment. Scheduled to go on floors this summer, the untitled love story will be shot in Mumbai and Kolkata. 
Anushka says, “Our endeavour is to tell stories that are not only meaningful and different, but touch hearts as well. This is yet another step in that direction.” The Sharmas are pushing the envelope in creating relevant, entertaining and engaging cinema across genres with not just diverse stories, but also excellence in all departments of filmmaking. 
 Meanwhile, KriArj Entertainment, founded by  , is all set for its second outing (after ' ') with  , 'Toilet — Ek Prem Katha'. For their first association with Anushka-Karnesh, the production house will also be collaborating with KYTA Productions. 
 Says Arjun, “My partner   and I are delighted to start our association with Clean Slate Films. Anushka not only brings on board her talent as an actor, but also astute sense as a producer. Their passion for films is something that we too identify with. We are certain that our partnership will create content that will further the reputation of our young companies and stand out from the crowd.” 
 Karnesh adds, “Our search for a suitable title is on. This film marks the beginning of our association with people, who share our vision to create engaging, content-led cinema.” Ajay Kapoor of KYTA Productions, with which Arjun’s company is collaborating on multiple ventures, starting with Anushka’s new film, says, “It is indeed a pleasure to work with like-minded people, who believe in the power of content and entertainment value.” 
 Zee Music has also come on board as the music partner on the project. Anurag Bedi of the music label, says, “We are excited about this upcoming venture with Anushka-Karnesh and Arjun-Prernaa.” 
 
  
  
 
 
