New Delhi: Private equity giant   Pincus on Wednesday said it has acquired around 14% stake in   for around Rs 820 crore, valuing the country’s largest film and retail entertainment company at a little under Rs 6,000 crore. 

 The stake is being acquired from affiliates of private equity firm Renuka Ramnath-founded Multiples, which will remain a long term investor with a 14% equity stake and current promoters will continue to drive the business and remain the largest shareholder with over 25% holding, Warburg Pincus said in a statement. 
 
 From starting out as a single-screen theatre in   in 1978, PVR has a come a long way as it first entered the multiplex segment in the Capital before getting a national footprint, which included acquisitions as well as greenfield assets. PVR currently operates a cinema circuit comprising 562 screens in 122 properties in 48 cities pan-India and has been on an acquisition spree. It bought DT Cinema from DLF in a deal worth Rs 500 crore last year. 
 
 “The Indian multiplex industry is at a cusp of rapid transformation and at the next level of growth driven by consumer demand and experience, convenience and technology. We are delighted to welcome Warburg Pincus as an investor as we continue to accelerate our long term development and expansion. The firm’s global network and experience will be invaluable to us as we go forward,” PVR chairman and managing director   said. 
 
 The PE fund, which counted Bharti Airtel as one of its earliest investments in the country, has bought into several consumer-facing businesses including garment-maker Biba, Kalyan Jewellers and Car Trade, the online classifieds firm. “Warburg Pincus is excited to invest in PVR, and has been impressed by Ajay’s passion and continued commitment to the business. The Indian film and entertainment market is expanding rapidly and we look forward to supporting Ajay and the entire management team during the next phase of growth,” Warburg Pincus India MD and co-head Vishal Mahadevia said. 
 
 PVR shares rose over 5% to close at 1,304 on BSE on a day when the sensex remained flat.
 
 
