AHMEDABAD: A recent study carried out by the Indian Institute of Public Health–Gandhinagar (IIPHG) on   in various slum clusters in the city has revealed that their body temperatures rise sharply during peak summers. The rise is by three to four degrees, up to feverish levels

  The study was conducted among four groups which are likely to be the most vulnerable — including incense stick makers, kite makers, rag pickers, and street vendors. The study shows that 80% of them experienced an increase in body temperatures. “We measured their body temperature in the morning before they started work and after their work (at least up to one hour) was done,” said Dr Abhiyant Tiwari, a public health researcher, IIPHG. “Around 18% of the women reported average high temperatures even in the morning before they started working, which might have occurred due to constant exposure to heat.”
 
 More startling, women working indoors had higher body temperatures by a degree or two compared to those working outdoors. “This was particularly found in women who are involved in making kites or incense sticks,” said Tiwari. “It clearly indicates that indoor temperature is higher than outdoor temperature. Most of these women work in their homes or in spaces with tin roofs.” In fact, according to census data, around 5.13 lakh households in   have roofs made of metal.
 
  Constant exposure to heat and consequent increase in mean body temperatures is hazardous to a woman’s health and can lead to a series of health problems.
 
 These include menstrual disturbances, complications related to pregnancies, dehydration, and kidney-related disorders. Some surveys conducted by researchers also indicate that most women experienced dizziness and headache in addition to excessive sweating.
 
 Yet another important aspect highlighted by the study is the absence of norms to regulate occupational health hazards arising out of heat. “Currently, there are no standards in India to define permissible heat threshold values and safe levels of exposure,” said  , scientist ‘C’, National Institute of Occupational Health. “Therefore, studies conducted take Association Advancing Occupational and Environmental Health standards in tropical conditions into consideration.”
 
 Times View
 
 The lack of norms defining permissible levels of heat exposure poses a great risk to the health of a large workforce in the organized as well as the larger unorganized sector. The latter is exposed to high levels of heat while working, especially during peak summer months. The civic authorities must address this problem urgently as part of their heat action plan.
 
