CHENNAI: The bull is in the ring, but the protesters don’t seem to be ready to back off just yet. While hooves pounded in Pudukottai, Trichy and Erode, the state’s planned ceremonious end to the protests with a race at Alanganallur failed as bull owners refused to see the ordinance as a permanent solution. They got support from the unflinching crowd on the Marina, where the protests entered the sixth day with a crowd which has only swollen over the weekend.

 The resolute nature of the campaign, which has largely been driven by social media and remained ‘leaderless’, took a turn with some of the thought leaders asking people to accept the present dictum as a practical solution as of now and wind down the protests. Some like Adhithya Ramachandran Venkatapathy, also known as Hiphop Tamizha, felt the stir is going off track with political elements and unconnected agendas now extending the protest. "People are bringing unconnected agendas and anti-national agendas. If they want to fight for that, they can do it separately," he said. "Yesterday I came out of the protests. I want a solution but I feel bad that a few people are misleading the protesters," he said through a Facebook video message on Sunday.
 
 He said he was following Jallikattu Peravai Tamil Nadu president P Rajasekaran, former managing trustee of Kangayam Cattle Research Foundation Karthikeya Sivasenapathy and Veera Vilayattu Meetpu Kazhagam president T Rajesh who saw the ordinance as a solution.
 
 While Rajasekaran, Rajesh and Sivasenapathy held a press conference late evening in Chennai to formally announce their take on the ordinance, they had made their stance clear earlier in the day. Giving full credit to the students who spearheaded the agitation to bring back the bull taming sport, Rajesh, who met chief minister   on Sunday at Madurai as representative of jallikattu outfits, said: "The emergency ordinance in its present state is fool proof and cannot be challenged in the Supreme Court. I thank the college students for the wholehearted support and urge them to call off the protest."
 
 Sivasenapathy too urged the protesters to look at the issue holistically. "Our demand was to amend the prevention of cruelty to animals PCA Act. But practically, the amendment is not possible now because parliament is not in session and the state assembly is also not in session. The second demand was that there should be an ordinance. Now that the ordinance has come, we should give some time to the government and fix a time frame. We should postpone the protest and again start protesting," he said conceding that since the movement had grown organically all they could do was appeal to the people.
 
 
