Nagpur: Contrary to the earlier belief that hormonal replacement therapy (HRT) is harmful for   post menopause, the treatment is now being promoted as a positive remedy for many problems in women during and after the   by gynaecologists as the World Health Organization (WHO) too is now for HRT provided it is given to right women at right time and in right dose.

 Dr Laxmi Shrikhande, who would be taking over as the President of Indian Menopause Society (IMS), Nagpur chapter for two years on Sunday, says that though HRT was once abandoned due to many complications like increased risk of breast cancer, these apprehensions now stand outdated. “The WHO has now given a nod to HRT but with certain conditions. There are now some very good new generation progesterone hormones available which can be safely given to women below the age of 60 years for at least ten years. They no longer increase the risk of cardiac attacks. The International Menopause Society too has recommended safe HRT for women beginning right from the premenopausal to post- menopausal period,” said Dr Shrikhande.
 
 There was a time when increasing incidences of breast cancer in women was directly related to HRT. But now if the gynaecologists are careful enough to identify the patients properly who require HRT, it has become a boon for women. “But this doesn’t mean that the risk of breast cancer has been completely eliminated,” emphasized Dr Shrikhande.
 
 Osteoporosis is another common phenomenon associated with menopause. HRT also helps in preventing osteoporosis as well as reduces the risk of spine, back and other factures. Some major symptoms associated with menopause are mood swings, irritability, lack of self-esteem, depression, loneliness, hot flushes, urogenital problems and hypothyroidism. But these problems, more than treatment, require counselling and one-to-one interaction for which the patient should come for regular follow-ups. “A large number of women suffer un-necessarily from problems like pain after intercourse, bleeding, and problem in urination like burning sensation. All these need attention and should not be ignored,” said Dr Shrikhande.
 
 “The science of menopause is very complex and is influenced by physical, psychological and mental issues. Even the doctors need to understand it thoroughly before dealing with patients. Hence we are planning special CMEs focused on menopausal therapy round the year through the IMS,” said Dr Shrikhande.
 
 Talking about pre-menopausal problems like irregular periods to post-menopausal problems like mood swings, Shrikhande says they can be treated using HRT. The treating doctor however has to assess the right dose and the right kind of   for the patient to avoid complications. Women who have stopped menstruating fall in the elderly category and thus their problems require special medical attention. 
 
 “Menopause is a very significant phase in the life of a woman. She is disturbed and stressed too and many women often don’t get the desired family support. Men fail to understand the mood swings and irritability of the wife. They don’t realize that they need to stand by her emotionally as well as get her HRT as medical help,” said Dr Shrikhande.
 
 A significant increase in lifespan has come with its own set of problems and needs attention by a gynaecologist as a basic care giver and a referral doctor. Hence the IMS is planning to train people including post graduate medical students in medical colleges as part of regular awareness activities among doctors. IMS will be running various ‘Gurukul’ projects in this regard where PG students will be prepped to handle elderly patients. Although age related diseases like Alzheimer’s doesn’t have a cure, it can be better managed with training.
 
 
