KOCHI: Chief minister   on Saturday commissioned Cial's latest international terminal, T3. The new terminal is expected to double the airport's capacity to operate international flights. The current international terminal can operate five to seven aircraft at once while the latest terminal is expected to handle up to 12 aircraft as of now. 

 CM also inaugurated a 4.3 km long four-lane and overbridge stretching from Athani to the airport.
 
 Once he arrived at the new terminal, CM went to arrival section of the new terminal where he along with finance minister   welcomed passengers travelling via   flight (9W53J) from Muscat to Kochi, which was the first flight to arrive in T3.
 
 The Jet Airways flight landed in Kochi at 4.25 pm. As per tradition, the flight was given a 90-seconds-long water salute, following which the flight docked the aerobridge.
 
 Airport officials said that all operations from the current international terminal will be relocated to T3 well before March 15.
 
 Cial managing director   speaking at the inaugural function said the new terminal is a great step for the Cial, a project with humble but ambitious beginnings. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the Cial, a Public Private Partnership ( ) endeavour, has proved that the general public can play a significant role in the development of the state.
 
 He said that normally in PPP endeavours, the profits are enjoyed by the private sector and losses are suffered by the public but this has not been the case with Cial. He also praised Cial for their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) imitatives.
 
 Finance minsiter Thomas Isaac praised the Cial management for the cost-effective construction of the latest terminal.
 
 "When compared to the Delhi airport which spend Rs 20,000 per sq ft, the 15 lakh sq ft terminal at Cial was constructed at a cost of just Rs 6,000 per sq ft. This is an incredible task, which has to attributed to excellent management," said Thomas Isaac.
 
 Within a year's time when the second phase of the international airport is commissioned, the aircraft operational capacity will be extended to 25 fights at the same time.
 
 The duty-free store at the latest terminal will be twice the size of the present one at T1. The store at T3 has a combined area of 33,000 sq ft, with 25,000 sq ft allocated at arrival and 8,000 sq ft at the departure. At T1, the store at the arrivals is 10, 000 sq ft and 4,000 sq ft at departures.
 
