Nagpur: A Warli painting on the walls of Nalanda society in Ravi Nagar spreads a message of tree conservation. The painting was made by the locality residents in summers. On Sunday, some trees inside the society were found axed. It is not just infrastructure projects that are a threat to city’s green cover. In posh localities, to get rid of trees, citizens are coming up with unusual reasons such as accumulation of dry leaves, creating car parking space or threat from branches. On Sunday morning, a passer-by noticed chopping of trees inside Nalanda society and alerted the members of NGO Green Vigil Foundation. After reaching on spot, the members found that two Ashoka trees and one Gulmohar tree were completely chopped off while branches of a eucalyptus and Kesia tree were being heavily trimmed. Officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) garden department too reached a spot and conducted a panchnama. “When we enquired, residents said that they were facing many problems due to the trees. The leaf litter makes the compound dirty and chokes the drainage,” said Kaustav Chatterjee of Green Vigil. Residents, however, denied chopping off trees. “We were only trimming branches of some trees. The remaining trees were probably chopped off some days back by workers of electricity department as they were near a transformer,” they told TOI. Trashing this claim, Green Vigil members said that the trees were freshly chopped off. “What remained was hardly few feet of base stem. The leaves were completely fresh. If the trees were felled some days back, the leaves should have turned dry,” they added. A nearby street vendor also said that the trees were cut on Sunday morning. NMC officials said that timber was missing from the spot. “We will be issuing show cause notice to the residents soon,” they added. Last month, a 60-year old tree was completely chopped off behind LAD college. “Owner of a coaching centre had taken NMC’s permission to cut the tree because he wanted space to park his car. He had no plans to do compensatory plantations, he was satisfied that he had deposited money with NMC,” Chatterjee said. The recent amendments in Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Protection and Preservation of Trees (Amendment) Act, 2016, has simplified the process of tree-felling. “In case of less than 25 trees, permission of tree authority is not needed and that of municipal commissioner can suffice. Due to this, officials are not inspecting the spot before granting permission. The law doesn’t stop them from inspections. Even if it is not mandatory in the act, they should ensure if the trees or branches really need to be felled,” said Surbhi Jaiswal of Green Vigil.