MUMBAI: The municipal corporation’s ambitious plan to make citizens partially responsible for their own   disposal from   has created a curious conundrum: The “not in my backyard” ball is being thrown back and forth in a confused game, which could have smelly results.

 A society that has made it a habit to blame the government for everything is suddenly being confronted with the Gandhian idea of having to take responsibility for its own rubbish, literally. Rules that would quietly be followed by people if they were living in western habitats, have turned into a matter of outrage back home.
 
 Many residents say the civic body is abdicating its duty without offering any commensurate benefits or rebates. “It’s their job,” says one angry housing colony resident, shuddering at the idea of fruit flies hovering in his backyard. But civic officials counter that they are simply following the 2016 Central government notification on solid waste management, which requires people to segregate their waste at source. “The dumping grounds are full,” says Ajoy Mehta, municipal commissioner. “It’s as simple as that.”
 
 The notification from the ministry of environment clearly states that waste generators must “segregate and store the waste generated by them in three separate streams, namely bio-degradable, non-biodegradable and domestic hazardous waste in suitable bins and handover segregated wastes to authorized waste pickers or waste collectors as per the direction or notification by the local authorities from time to time”.
 
 As Mehta says, “The aim is to bring down waste going to the dumping ground from the current 7,700 tonne daily to 6,500 and eventually to 5,500 tonne. It will finally be processed only at Kanjurmarg while both Mulund and Deonar will be shut.”
 
 Reduction of garbage is not the only priority. There are several stakeholders in the garbage game, including those at the lowest rung who participate in the vast recycling network. The Central government rules also state that waste generators will “wrap securely used sanitary waste like diapers, sanitary pads etc, in the pouches provided by the manufacturers or brand owners of these products or in a suitable wrapping material as instructed by local authorities and shall place the same in the bin meant for dry waste or non-bio-degradable waste” probably taking into account lakhs of rag-pickers who sift through garbage every day and are forced to handle all kinds of unpalatable material. (http://www.moef.gov.in/sites/default/files/SWM%202016.pdf)
 
 Nearly 4,800 residential and commercial properties in Mumbai identified as bulk generators of garbage—those generating more than 100kg of waste every day—have been served notices to implement the scheme. While   will collect dry waste, societies will have to process their wet waste. While smaller housing colonies do not fall into this net, the BMC hopes they will start taking a proactive stand on their own and research wet garbage   options.
 
 While all new buildings are required to keep ample space for waste management, Mehta says in case of older societies, if space is a genuine issue, they can approach their ward offices. “The BMC will verify this and then allot them community land for waste processing.”
 
 Civic officer Kiran Dighavkar, in charge of the Swachcha Bharat Abhiyan for Mumbai, said officials have been provided training. Besides, exhibitions have been held in various wards to enable residents to make informed choice about various waste management technologies as well as vendors. A help desk on this subject has been set up at each ward office (see box).
 
 Basic questions are still doing the rounds, though: What is the difference between wet and dry waste? How does one handle electronic and medical waste? Which is the best technology for composting and what do you do with compost once created?
 
 Another concern is, given the shrinking of green spaces, what will residents do with the compost generated? Mehta says the Central government has mandated that fertiliser companies buy the compost from the   in whose jurisdiction they have a plant, in return for marketing and tax subsidies. In Mumbai, this would be Rashtriya Chemical Fertilisers at Chembur. However, the BMC will not facilitate sale or purchase of compost. “Residents will have to approach RCF directly. In case of difficulty, the BMC will buy it from the residents,” Mehta adds.
 
 In Phase II, the BMC plans to take up composting of wet waste in the slums at M/East (Govandi, Shivajinagar etc) and Dharavi. The BMC will carry out house to house collection, identify land in the slum for converting waste to compost and implement the process. 
 
 “Unlike the residents of societies the slum-dwellers cannot do it themselves and so BMC will do it through Dattak Vasti Yojana workers.” 
 
