Deep in the throes of jet lag, Janiva   has been moving around in slo-mo all of Friday morning, but bounces back in rhythm when reminded that she's among the fierce group of new contenders nipping at their heels of this year's Grammys.

 “It's unbelievable to me,“ she gushes, recalling that moment when her phone's incessant ring got on her nerves while she was trying to jostle her way through a swarming London airport. “My husband and I had just landed in   for a holiday in  . With text messages flashing and the phone constantly ringing, I was quite irritated at first. I wanted to be left alone until I saw the content. Then I began to weep,“ she says with a smile.
 
 The surprise Grammy nod for Love Wins Again, Magness's twelfth album competing for 'Best Contemporary Blues Album', celebrates not just her genre-defying attempt, but the singer songwriter's journey of making her way into the blues world after half a lifetime of chasing what she calls “demons“ from her childhood. “For me, it's probably the biggest accolade a musician can hope for. You know, I just turned 60, but almost feel like a schoolgirl,“ she says with a broad smile that belies her turbulent past, of having lost both parents to suicide, being trudged around several foster homes and having to give up her daughter for adoption at 17.
 
 “I didn't start singing until I was 19, didn't start writing original material until ten years ago. That's really late by today's standards. Forty-odd years is a long time for a Grammy nomination,“ she smiles.But even as she sits there demurely recounting her life as a late bloomer, Magness, if nothing else, is stubborn and tenacious--traits she believes has helped her keep up the fight and record her first album when she was 40. “It's never too late to seek out your destiny. I believe women are the most powerful creatures in humanity and have a responsibility to follow their heart.“ Her just-finished, yet-untitled memoir has already inspired a musical.
 
 When Magness weaves hurt into her voice, words and melody, she is probably one of the few blues artistes who can do so with an understanding of what that really feels like. Unruffled when asked how much her personal history has shaped the artiste that she is today, Magness says, “Authentically, yes completely. Mercifully much less today,“ she laughs. Magness wears her 60 years lightly, indeed. For the cover of her nominated album she posed with a pair of worn-out boxing gloves on her back.
 
 The album which hit the number one rank on the Billlboard blues chart enshrines elements of Americana, soul, rock, pop, country and blues with a message that is part-manifesto and part-testimonial.
 
 This may be her maiden trip to India, but Magness owes her state of calm to “25 years of practising the ancient Indian healing ritual of Kundalini yoga“. She says this flashing a smile that almost outshines the sparkle of a silver `Om' dangling from her neck. Not surprisingly, she is excited about being in India. “To who much is given, a lot will be asked. I'm very happy to have that pressure, but also want to be able to navigate that as gracefully as I can. That's why yoga is almost as important as breathing is for me. It grounds me, reduces stress and also helps me as a singer. I so wish I had the time during this trip to venture more into it,“ she rues.
 
 For now, some retail therapy should suffice. “Maybe I'll go shopping for some Indian clothes, instead.“
 
