Mumbai: A child who had nothing to do with such matters as buying a   and monetary disputes was murdered along with his father in   earlier this week just because he happened to be returning home with him from school when a   and his aide, a  , decided to resort to bloodshed to end a dispute.

 Solving the   of Chandrakant Kargal (45) and his son Harsh (11), the police on Thursday said the estate agent, Vishnu Patil (35), and the mechanic, Monu Sahani (20), had been arrested. Chandrakant’s wife Sumitra had told the police about her husband’s fights with Patil. The police picked up Patil and he confessed.
 
 The police said Chandrakant had struck a deal for a flat in Virar (west) last year. Patil was the agent. Chandrakant had given Rs 12 lakh to Patil to hand over to the seller, but Patil paid only Rs 7 lakh to the seller and pocketed Rs 5 lakh. Chandrakant was after Patil to pay the Rs 5 lakh to the flat seller so that the sale could take place.
 
 Since the past few months Chandrakant had begun demanding that his money be returned with interest, leading to arguments. The police said that Patil realised he could not repay the Rs 5 lakh and so he decided to kill Chandrakant.
 
 Chandrakant and Harsh, residents of Sahakari Nagar in Virar (east), had gone missing on Monday. Palghar district Superintendent of police Manjunath Singe said Chandrakant was killed first. Harsh was killed as he had seen his father being murdered.
 
 The father and son were abducted in a Swift car by Patil and Sahani, both Virar residents. They were taken to a flat in Boling village in Virar (west) and Chandrakant’s mouth wascovered with duct tape before he was suffocated to death by covering his face with a plastic bag. The body was left in the flat and Harsh was taken in the car to a secluded spot. He was killed in the same manner as his father. His body was dumped in a lake in Dahisar village in Virar (east). The accused men returned to the flat, took Chandrakant’s body and dumped it in a nullah behind the Mhada colony in Virar (west).
 
