Hold on to the love. Not the loss. Well played Team India — that was the message the nation shared and spoke of over social media, as well as in person, after the Eves in blue crumbled under pressure and lost the historic final at Lord’s by just nine runs on Sunday.

 From chief minister Mamata Banerjee to Sachin Tendulkar to thousands of cricket fans in the country flooded Twitter and Facebook, minutes after the heartbreaking loss, with words of praise and support for the Indian women’s cricket team who had cruised to the final of the   but failed to cross the last hurdle.
 
 “A bit sad for the loss but nevertheless I’m immensely proud of the way our team played today. They have made us proud and have made several women cricketers in the country dream to be on a par with the men’s team when it comes to popularity and respect. Thank you Team India, we are proud of you,” said Subhra Bhaduri, former Bengal coach and the head trainer at Rising Star Sports Club, the only all-girls cricket academy in Kolkata.
 
 Bhaduri had tweaked the coaching timings on Sunday and wrapped up classes by 2.30pm to watch the match on a large screen at her academy with all her students. 
 
 “We had a great time. This was the first time we were watching the match together. Our team was in the game for most part of the match. We just lost it in the last eight overs,” said Bhaduri.
 
 For most part of Sunday, roads in Kolkata wore a deserted look as fans stayed indoors cheering for India at home or setting up giant screens at clubs and community halls. The cheers worked wonders when India limited England to a below par total of 228, but while chasing, they lost their way from the second over as the southpaw Smriti Mandhana once again failed in the tournament. The pair of Punam Raut and Harmanpreet Kaur, and then Raut and Veda Krishnamoorthy, steadied the innings in the middle but once Raut was out in the 43rd over with India needing only 38 off 42 balls, the players panicked. They gave away easy catches and threw away wickets running themselves out as the dream run ended at 219.
 
 At the post-match presentation ceremony, the despair was evident on Mithali Raj’s face, who proclaimed that she would not play the next World Cup, but added: “I would like to tell the girls I am very proud of them. Each one of them.”
 
 Lake Road resident and entrepreneur Saroj Sharma felt the same. “I was never a big fan of cricket. But these girls have made me follow their matches and today I sat the entire day watching a cric-ket match, cheering for these girls and was never bored. I am thankful and proud of them.”
 
 At Wabi Sabi café in Southern Avenue, fans had turned up in India jerseys to cheer for the team. “We had planned to give a 10% discount to all women if India won. They fell short, but for me, they won hearts. The discount is still on as a mark of respect to them,” said Sunil Agarwal, who owns the café.
 
 The club of South City Complex, as well as several local clubs in Behala, Beliaghata and Salt Lake, were packed with cricket fans who cheered their lungs out for the first time for women’s cricket. 
 
 National cricketer Saiqa Ishaque was devastated. “I could feel the pressure mounting. I could feel what they were going through. But I still hoped they get to cross the line. A win would have meant a lot for our cricket. But I am proud of what Mithali di and Jhulan di have given to this team. I am proud of all my co-players. They failed but they have made us believe that we can do it in the future and it will be sometime very soon,” the 22-year-old said.
 
 
