NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court has made it very risky for any organisation to publish a survey on alleged corruption in lower judiciary. The court said on Tuesday that the law permitted one or many trial courts to make a reference to a high court to launch contempt proceedings against those responsible for the embarrassing findings.

 This ruling came in an 11-year-old case filed by   India (TII) and   (CMC), which, along with their top management, were asked by a magistrate in Kangan, J&K, in 2006 to show cause as to why   or action under   of the Ranbir Penal Code (RPC) not be initiated against them. 
 
 The magistrate had taken objection to an article in the ‘Greater Kashmir’ daily that quoted a survey, conducted by CMS and published by TII, on “rampant corruption” in the subordinate judiciary. But neither TII’s nor CMS’s representatives appeared before the magistrate, who, later the same year, issued bailable arrest warrants against their brass. The warrants were stayed by the SC in 2006 itself.
 
 On Tuesday, a bench of Chief Justice   and Justice D Y Chandrachud and Justice Sanjay K Kaul rejected senior advocate Jayant Bhushan’s argument that the survey was conducted by asking litigants about their experience in court, and projected the general state of affairs in subordinate courts without branding any single trial court or judge.
 
 Bhushan said, “The magistrate against whom the contemptuous remarks or allegations were made, he alone could have initiated proceedings to refer contempt proceedings to the HC. It was a general survey on the health of judiciary. If the Kangan magistrate’s decision is upheld, then it would mean any or every magistrate throughout the state can initiate such proceedings.”
 
 The CJI said, “If I am a trial court judge and you publish a survey projecting that 90% (of the) people feel the judiciary is corrupt, then I will think it is an aspersion on my integrity. I will be fully within law to issue notice to you and seek your reply on referring contempt proceedings to the HC.”
 
 However, the SC said the magistrate exceeded his powers in issuing bailable warrants to secure the presence of the TII and CMS officials. It gave two months to TII and CMS officials to either appear personally or through their counsel before the Kangan magistrate’s court, and show cause as to why such proceedings not be initiated. The SC also said the petitioners were at liberty not to appear before the magistrate’s court, which could proceed with the case and pass orders on referring the contempt proceedings to the HC. On Bhushan’s argument that the trial court did not have power to initiate criminal defamation proceedings under Sections 499/500/501 of RPC, the SC said the petitioners could challenge any such order before the J&K HC.
 
