PUNE:   has questioned the desire of   ( ) to develop the game of tennis in the `best possible' way.

 His view was supported by outgoing   captain   who, after India's 4-1 win over New Zealand in the Davis Cup tie on Sunday , said: “We need to pump in more money, more time and more resources.“ To this, Yuki quickly added, “If they have the desire.
 
 “I don't know if they have got the desire.“
 
 “Everybody trains by themselves. They are not a product of the system. Because there is no system. Why the questions about developing a strong team for the Davis Cup or creating a strong player base are asked to the players? These should be addressed to the AITA. What are they doing for the players?” Amritraj, once again, nodded in agreement. 
 
 Yuki is not the only one to have come out against AITA recently as players have been taking potshots at the association.   and   have lashed out at the association over various issues. While Bopanna criticised the AITA over team selection for the New Zealand tie, Somdev castigated it over how it handled youngster Sumit Nagal's case after charging him with indiscipline.
 
 Yuki said that in the 1980s, the US had 32 ATP tour events in a year. Now, that has come down to eight, which is still a high number. “The US has four guys ranked between 20 and 30 in the world. Still, they say that tennis is on the decline there due to lack of enough events at home. “ITF Futures (meets) don't give you enough. Challengers is the way to go. This is the right time to start working on that because we have got the players who are ready to take advantage of these events.”
 
 Incidentally, former Davis Cup coach Enrico Piperno, speaking to an agency on Sunday, said that it was nearly impossible for the country's tennis players to make the world's top-50 as there was neither funding nor infrastructure to produce bankable talent.
 
 Yuki said China, Korea and Japan have at least five Challenger events in a year. “In 2013, when we had the Challengers, Saketh Myneni, Prajnesh and me benefitted from them. But where are those events now? We hardly get to play one or two of those in an entire year.”
 
 Amritraj was very happy with the way the win over Kiwis was panned out here on the weekend. “Doubles was always going to be tough,” he said. “I wanted three singles win, but we got four.”
 
 He said that during his three-and-a-half-years stint as captain, India won five ties with all the three losses coming in World Group playoffs against Serbia, Czech Republic and Spain. “Those are one of the top teams in the world and I'm not too unhappy about that.”
 
 Going by the camaraderie and mutual respect between the players and Amritraj, and the latter's pedigree and experience, AITA's decision not to continue with him raises questions.
 
 
