TRICHY: They may have been proven to be durable, eco-friendly and cost-effective, but plastic tar roads are no longer the choice of the district administration, a decision it blames on the non-availability of quality plastic wastes. However, dismissing the claim, professor  , a pioneer on the subject, said this was an excuse to abandon   for tar roads. 

 Trichy district has plastic roads on a stretch of 51.52 kms at 27 places in the rural areas which were laid out since 2011. District rural development agency (DRDA), the agency for laying and maintaining plastic tar roads, put on hold the project in 2015-16. Starting from Musiri during 2011-12, plastic roads were laid in Andhanallur, Thottiyam, Manapparai, Manikandam, Marungapuri, Vaiyampatti, Lalgudi, Mannachanallur and Thuraiyur. The road on a 2.2-km stretch from Sathanur to Kottathur was the last it laid almost two years ago. The non-availability of quality plastic was the reason cited by DRDA for shelving the project in the district. 
 
 “Plastic roads can be laid using shredded plastics above the level of 40 micron. But the availability of plastic wastes in the required quality came down. Since low quality plastic can’t be used for  , we did not take the project further,” executive engineer (EE) of DRDA, Trichy, G Anuradha told TOI on Tuesday. Women self-help groups (SHGs) in rural areas were involved in the business of shredding the plastics to pieces so as to mix them with bitumen for laying the roads. The abrupt stopping of the project put their livelihood also in peril. 
 
 DRDA also claimed that the durability of the plastic roads was not better than that of tar roads. “Normally, a tar road would last five years. However, the plastic roads are also found to have a life of as many years only. It may be due to the use of 8% plastic as specified,” said Anuradha. 
 
 Professor R Vasudevan of Thiagarajan College of Engineering in   this reasoning. “Citing unavailability of plastic as the reason for abandoning the project is not acceptable because plastic waste is in abundance. SHGs are shredding the plastic wastes at several places. Even shredded wastes below 40 micron can be used,” Vasudevan said. 
 
 He also disputed the claim of the officials on the durability of plastic roads. “The first plastic tar road laid in Kovilpatti in 2002 is still in good condition. The use of plastics for laying roads will save on expenditure and it will not require maintenance at regular interval unlike tar roads. The excuses offered are all aimed at avoiding plastic roads and promoting tar roads so that the road laying projects will become routine at the cost of public money,” said professor Vasudevan claiming that his concept had been adopted in laying of plastic roads under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana. 
 
