GREATER NOIDA: A Class 6 student’s eye injury that allegedly went unattended by the school brought a group of parents to the   campus in   on Tuesday to express concern about the safety of their children.

 Schools across the country, particularly Ryan, have been under scrutiny on students’ safety after the murder of Class 2 student Pradhyumn Thakur on the campus of   at   in Gurgaon.
 
 The parents said the girl was injured when a fellow student flung a wooden stick at her. She suffered a cut and was unable to open her eye. Parents of 15 students went to the school on Tuesday morning to meet principal   and ask why she wasn’t taken to hospital, or even given first aid, by the medical teacher.
 
 They alleged the girl was asked to go home and ask her parents to take her to a doctor. “My daughter was injured in her eye by another child when he threw a stick in her eyes. She wasn’t able to open her eyes. When she went to the medical room, she wasn’t given any first aid,” the injured girl’s father wrote in a group message to other parents. TOI isn’t naming the girl or her parents at the request of the family.
 
 “They could have used eye drops. The class teacher didn’t inform us either. There was no teacher in the class, which I think is not right. Isn’t it the school’s responsibility to give first aid or at least inform the parents?” the girl’s father wrote on the group chat.
 
 Shashikant Srivastava, the doctor who attended to the injured girl at Kailash hospital in Greater Noida, said she was brought there around 4 pm with an abrasion and was unable to open her eye. “We helped her open her eye and gave medicines. She has been prescribed rest for four-five days,” he said.
 
 The principal, however, had a different version. “The child rubbed her eye very badly. Her class teacher had attended to her till 6 pm and the father of the child came to thank me for the same. The parents who gathered outside the school are doing it only to gain attention,” she said.
 
 The parents said they would meet district magistrate B N Singh. “This only shows that the school has not learnt any lessons from the recent uproar following the gruesome Gurgaon incident. The principal only met the father of the girl but we want to ensure our children are safe,” said a parent.
 
