JAIPUR: Union helath ministry will send 60,000 inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) to the state soon.

 Ministry officials called up state's health minister   to know about shortage of IPV in the state, health department sources said. The Centre assured that they would send 60,000 doses of IPV to the state soon. 
 
 After TOI published story highlighting shortage of IPV and its related risk factors, health minister Kalicharan Saraf held a meeting with his officials on Tuesday to deal with the situation. 
 
 TOI had highlighted that although polio virus strain has been eradicated as per WHO but the Virus strain does exist in the world in form of   and immuno-compramised Polio virus carriers . All the newborn borne in Rajasthan who have not received IPV are exposed to the risk of Polio type 2 infection in case of any break through infection of olio strain 2 . 
 
 In Tuesday, health department officials pointed put that so far, 2.66 lakh children have been given IPV in the state before the shortage affected polio vaccination through IPV. But, now state will get 60,000 vaccines to end acute shortage of IPV vaccines. 
 
 Talking about oral polio vaccine (OPV), health minister Saraf said that there is sufficient supply of OPV in the state. He said in the state, there is requirement of 64 lakh oral polio vaccine in a financial year. The centre is supplying 70 lakh oral polio vaccine. He said 59 lakh doses of opv has already been supplied to the state and rest of 11 lakh doses will be supplied soon to the state.
 
 Besides, Congress has also taken up the issue as former CM   on Tuesday, sharing TOI report on shortage of IPV in the state, tweeted from his twitter handle @ashokgehlot51 saying, "Govt mst ensure supply of polio vaccine is not interrupted in #Rajasthan in any way. Scarcity of vaccine is a serious health risk for chldn.”
 
 He tweeted, “It is with years of hard work that #polio has been eradicated. It must not be allowed to strike again due to apathy on our part.” 
 
 He further tweeted, "The issue of shortage of #polio vaccine should be immediately taken up with   n supply must be restored #Rajasthan."
 
