MANGALURU: There are enough reasons that bring the spotlight on Dakshina Kannada district jail again and again, and all of them are wrong ones. The recent escape of an undertrial from the jail accentuates the problems bedeviling the jail here: Shortage of staff, lack of fool-proof security and improper location.

 Both Karnataka government and the prisons department are acutely aware of the serious shortcomings the jail is saddled with, but they have done precious little to take corrective steps. This year’s jailbreak is a first in 26 years; a similar incident was reported in 1991.
 
 Mangaluru District Jail’s superintendent   told TOI: “For many years now, we’ve been running two jails — old and new — without enough prison personnel. The government sanctioned Karnataka State Industrial Security Force staff last year, but we are unable to fully take charge of the prison.”
 
 About the undertrial’s run to freedom a couple of days ago, Krishnamurthy said he wasn’t authorized to comment on the incident.
 
 Another prison official said, on the condition of anonymity, that the district prison houses 426 persons, including 13 women undertrials, against its capacity of 210. In other words, the jail has inmates twice its capacity. Because undertrials are crammed into cells, there are incidents like faction feuds between gangsters who frequently cross paths during incarceration.
 
 The district jail has witnessed several unpleasant incidents in the past two years. In November 2015, five henchmen of Akashbhavan Sharan, an associate of fugitive Vikki Shetty, attacked Madoor Isubu, 41, and his friend Ganesh Shetty, 45, with sharp-edged weapons when the duo was outside their perimeter block, fatally assaulting them. The five were lodged in jail as undertrials.
 
 Isubu and Ganesh were associates of underworld don Chhota Shakeel, said to be a rival of Vikki. The incident set off clashes between supporters of Isubu and Ganesh and the five, leaving   grievously injured.
 
 The other incidents include smuggling of ganja into the prison by associates of undertrials, relatives and friends. Such cases are regularly booked at the jurisdictional Barke police station. “And we often hear about witnesses throwing food packets and other consumables into the jail. This is easy to carry out because the location of the jail lends itself into a perfect platform,” a third prison personnel TOI spoke to said on condition of anonymity.
 
 Staff guilty?
 
 Sources with direct knowledge of the probe said the prison department, which ordered a high-level probe into the escape of undertrial Jinappa Parava, 37, has held the jail staff guilty. Two days ago, Belagavi division DIG T P Shesha conducted the probe. 
 
 “The report said night duty staff present at the spot were asleep when Jinappa made good his escape. CCTV footage shows the incident took place at 3.39am,” a source said.
 
 
