NAGPUR: December 12, 2012. Wearing a casual T-shirt and blue denims,   walked to the practice area at the   ground in Jamtha. While his India teammates were honing their skills ahead of the Test match against England, Umesh was just looking on, somewhat lost. He chatted with some of the players and left looking distraught.

 Umesh was desperate to feature in this particular Test which would have been his first in front of his home crowd. A stress fracture in lower back had ruled him out after the first Test of the series in Ahmedabad. The Indian team management was hoping to get Umesh fit before the Nagpur Test. After all, he was the most successful among fast bowlers in Ahmedabad.
 
 That was probably the lowest point in Umesh's career after a very promising start just a year ago. It took another two years for Umesh to play the next Test. “I was doing well, learning a lot in the Indian set-up. That injury was a big blow,” Umesh had then told TOI.
 
 From those frustrating days to the high of Dharamsala has been a roller coaster ride for the ' '. Despite being the highest wicket-taker for India in the 2015 World Cup, he couldn't cement his place in either the Test or one-day side. He was often guilty of leaking runs and losing control. That, however, looks a thing of past now.
 
 The 29-year-old has shown exemplary fitness, genuine pace, good control and maturity in the 2016-17 season. He managed to play 12 successive Tests which is a remarkable feat considering how pace bowlers are breaking down one after the other.
 
 He has swung the new ball, and reverse-swung the old even better. Despite bowling 355.5 overs this season, there was hardly any drop in his pace. He regularly touched 140km plus, even in the last innings of the season.
 
 Inconsistency, however, had been his bane before this season. Umesh knew about it. He often spoke to his mentor, former India medium-pacer  , about it. “Whenever he asked me about the problem in his bowling, I couldn't find many. There were minor changes only. He has a good action, smooth run-up. What he was missing was sufficient matches. Umesh is a rhythm bowler. He gets better when he plays more and more. Fitness has never been an issue for him. He is a natural athlete. Look what he has done when he got to play so many matches,” Banerjee told TOI.
 
 Umesh, in fact, has reaped the rewards of the short stint with Banerjee immediately after the England series late last year. During the Christmas gap after the England Test series, Umesh was back in his home town and decided to spend some valuable time with Banerjee. Umesh had a decent series against England but wanted to use the break to best effect. The pacer worked on his run-up as well as on the length.
 
 “We fine-tuned his run-up which is helping him keep more balance in the bowling action. There were other things we talked about as well which can't be revealed,” said Banerjee, who has been in constant touch with Umesh since his debut.
 
 “We also spoke a lot about bowling at the desired length and Umesh slogged diligently. We had good discussions about the importance of hitting the right length consistently which ultimately earns wickets at the international level,” added Banerjee.
 
 After this workout stint, the change in Umesh was visible during the only Test against Bangladesh in Hyderabad in February. He hit the right areas, leaked less runs and earned batting coach Sanjay Bangar's praise who called him the “most improved bowler”.
 
 Umesh has worked hard on consistently putting the ball in same area after last year's IPL. He cut short his vacations to focus on his bowling. His wife Tanya has seen that frustrating phase. “Umesh is somebody who always loves to play. He didn't want to be just part of the team. He wanted to play for the country regularly, and win matches. We decided not to go for the vacations so that he could focus on his training,” Tanya told TOI.
 
 Experts and his teammates have always called him a strong cricketer. Barring a few niggles, Umesh has never suffered any injury in the last four and half years. The likes of V Sudarshan and Shankar Basu - Team India trainers - have worked hard on him. During the last three-four years, Umesh has worked on mobility, passive static stretches, speed endurance, power and dynamic core stability.
 
 Tanya calls Umesh a disciplined person, who has great control over his diet. “If he is on diet, even if you put his favourite dishes in front of him, he won't touch them.“
 
 That same self-control is reflecting in his bowling now.
 
