Kharagpur: Those owning up to 12 acres of irrigated farmland or 18 acres of rain-fed land (land within ceiling) won’t have to pay agricultural income tax (khazna) from now on. Chief minister   announced this sop to bolster Trinamool’s position ahead of next year’s panchayat polls, following BJP’s spectacular victory in  . 

 The decision would cost the government anything between Rs 120 crore and Rs 200 crore. “The kharif crop has suffered, potato farmers are making distress sales. We are ready to bear the pain despite our financial constraints. Let the Centre show some gesture by waiving farm loans,” Banerjee said after the administrative meeting held at Kharagpur on Monday.
 
 According to sources, the CM’s farmland tax waiver doesn’t apply to the agricultural cess that applies to all landholders irrespective of their holdings. As of now, small farmers having a holding of 4 acres in irrigated areas or 6 acres in rain-fed areas have been kept outside the agricultural tax ambit. But they have to pay agricultural cess like others. The cess is likely to continue.
 
 The salaried class may fret, but the decision sounds more political than economic. Banerjee, who has been accusing the Centre of discriminating against Bengal, has used this sop to take the wind out of BJP’s sails. 
 
 “I don’t mind Andhra Pradesh getting a special package from the Centre. But Bengal was denied its due on the Backward Region Grants Fund (BRGF) in Jangalmahal. The Rs 1900-crore Ghatal Master Plan is awaiting the Centre’s nod. Why this discrimination? Why are banks sitting on projects submitted by self-help groups? The Centre has to give money to the people, not just go on riot-mongering,” the CM said.
 
 Banerjee said her government had covered as many as 11,000 beneficiaries in   under several state government schemes. She also handed over the first 50,000-rupee compensation cheque to a person who lost his job and returned home after demonetisation.
 
 While announcing the sops, Banerjee wanted the people to make a promise. “Wadah koro — danga nehi karunga (make a promise you will not take part in riots),” the CM said in a bid to combat the saffron challenge days ahead of the Ram Navami celebrations beginning in the state from Wednesday, when Hindu religious groups are planning an armed show of strength across the state.
 
 The chief minister also took note of polarisation. “They are using social networking to spread rumours. Can you imagine, a Union minister has been claiming that the Trinamool government has stopped mangalarati in Dakshineswar temple? I request you to cross-check facts before making up your mind,” she said.
 
 Taking on opposition   that has been alleging a nexus between the state government and the Centre, Banerjee gave it back to CPM. “CPM and   are hand in glove. Many CPM activists are joining BJP. Do you know why? They think they can oust   Banerjee by tying up with BJP. CPM has turned out to be BJP’s main advisers. Those who are CPM in the morning turn BJP at night. They won’t be able to remove us as long as people are with us,” the CM said. 
 
 
