NAGPUR: The   (MCI) is on an inspection spree of new colleges and the colleges which have just got an increase in seats. The   (GMC) had a compliance inspection on March 7 whereas   was inspected on March 8 for an increase in seats from 100 to 150. Both colleges fortunately could manage to fulfil the basic requirements. But the fate of   is still questionable if the council takes serious cognisance of the deficiencies.

 The   is expecting an inspection anytime. But it is far from meeting the basic norms yet. And if the experts are to be believed the fate of Gondia GMC is most uncertain as it has not been able to rectify even 50% of the deficiencies. And the chances of them being corrected in immediate future are minimum as the government is not at all in a mood to create posts and fill them at this college. In the last inspection here, the MCI had objected to not just the insufficient number of teachers but also questioned their quality. Many of the teachers here don’t have the required publications to their credit for being on their respective posts. Yet the Gondia Dean Dr A Keoliya says that the college had made a lot of infrastructural developments in construction, procuring equipment and constructions. “The council allows less than 10% of deficiency in teaching which will allow us to clear the teaching posts criteria. There are a few deficiencies of nursing and class IV staff,” said Dr Keoliya.
 
 Sources say that during last inspection the MCI had asked the residents to produce their original certificates. But they couldn’t as they were at their original posting place. The situations remains the same this year too. Hence the sword of de-recognition or conditional recognition continues to hand over Gondia GMC.
 
 The Chandrapur GMC dean Dr C Morey told TOI that the college has brought down the teachers’ deficiency to less than 7.8%. It has clarified that the college medical superintendent has 15 years of required experience during the inspection. The college also rectified the deficiencies of operation theatres. It has also ensured that each ward has a doctors’, nurses’ room and a pantry.
 
 Dr Ashok Rathod of Yavatmal GMC which had to comply with the norms for 150 seats says that the college had the deficiency of a few teachers remained during the inspection as new posts were not created. But college has complied with the lecture room deficiency and the examination hall deficiency of 200 seats. “We have also met the beds deficiency of 100 beds, the X-ray and the sonography machines. But we don’t have a MRI. Construction of a 288 bed hospital is on. Hope MCI will consider it,” said Dr Rathod.
 
