LUCKNOW: Two years past class IX student   was found murdered on the premises of  , questions surrounding his death continue to haunt his family. Investigating officer of the case recorded statement of people concerned, including college principal Carlyle McFarland last week.

 “I am checking the facts mentioned in the case diary by my predecessor and went to meet college principal a week back. He gave names of some persons who have to be questioned yet in connection with the case. I am checking if anybody tried to destroy evidence in the school or acted negligently,” said Ashutosh Tripathi, station house officer of Gautampalli police station who is probing the case.
 
 City police had closed the case in February dubbing Rahul’s death as suicide, while chief judicial magistrate directed Gautampalli police to reopen it and probe the matter again.
 
 Rahul’s parents who work at SGPGI will hold a prayer meeting for him on Monday at their residence. “If college administration had come forward to clarify a few things, it would have been easier for us to move but police have ignored the contradictions in the suicide theory in the course of investigation, which is why we approached court,” said V Sridharan, a technical officer at SGPGI. 
 
 Rahul’s death shocked everyone, more so parents of adolescents. According to police, Rahul was highly influenced by the Japanese Manga series comics DeathNote and decided to take the extreme step emulating its lead character who wanted to eliminate all evil forces from the world.
 
 But Rahul’s parents were not convinced with police probes. “We know he was extremely fond of DeathNote as are lot of other teenagers but we expected police and college administration to tell us the circumstances under which my son died and they have nothing to offer,” said Sridharan.
 
 As injuries noted on Rahul’s body during autopsy examination were not consistent with the suicide theory offered by college administration, Sridharan kept pursuing the case instead of moving on. “Imagine how hard it is to lose a family member without knowing what happened to him,” added Sridharan.
 
 MYSTERY NOT SOLVED
 
 Timeline –
 
 April 10, 2015 – Rahul found dead at the college
 
 April 17 – Gautampalli police station registers FIR under murder charges a week after the incident
 
 July – Police receive three forensic reports
 
 September – Sridharan approaches private forensic lab which states injuries on Rahul’s body suggest he was attacked by a violent group and murdered 
 
 October 29, 2015 – Police file final report to close the case
 
 November – Sridharan moves court highlighting shoddy investigations
 
 February 11 – CJM instructs police to probe the case again
 
