MADURAI: After struggling with severe cash crunch for almost three months, Reserve  's (RBI) order enhancing withdrawal amount from Rs 4,500 to Rs 10,000 in ATMs has come as a breather for the public. However, the catch is not many ATMs are in a position to dispense so much cash. 

 On January 1, post November 8 demonetisation announcement, the RBI had first increased the withdrawal limit from Rs 2,500 to Rs 4,500.
 
 There are around 780 ATMs in Madurai district of which 60% are non-functional. On Tuesday, some of the ATMs were filled with cash in areas near the railway station and   but it vanished in no time as the early birds managed to withdraw the money. In some ATMs, people were seen standing in queues hoping that the machine wouldn't run out of cash.
 
 "Even the ones that are functional, dispense only Rs 2000 notes. There was information that we can withdraw Rs 10,000 from Tuesday onwards but there is no money in most of the ATMs," said M Saravanan, a resident of Reserve Line.
 
 Meanwhile, traders expressed dissatisfaction saying that their industry is taking a heavy hit as liquid cash is becoming dear. "There is no use of enhancing withdrawal limit without making ATMs functional. A lot of industries and traders are struggling to cope with day-to-day expenses," president of   Foodgrains Merchants Association Limited, S P Jeyapragasam, said. 
 
 Bank officials here said the situation will begin to ease gradually. The cash crunch witnessed in the beginning of demonetisation has eased and banks will start stocking adequate cash after Pongal holidays, a   official said. 
 
 However, informed sources from the banking sector said there is no adequate cash with the banks to fill in the ATMs. Each tray inside an ATM can hold 2,500 currency notes and banks could fill Rs 2,000 currency notes in one tray, Rs 500 and 100 denomination currencies in other three trays. In such case, an ATM could be stocked with many lakhs. But banks don't have so much cash, so fill up one or two lakh rupees inside an ATM allowing the machines to function for few hours, an official said.
 
 Without pumping adequate cash for transaction, it is unlikely that ATMs will become operational fully, said C P Krishnan from Bank Employees Federation of India. "Banks don't have sufficient cash to fill ATMs," he said. 
 
