KOCHI: The penalty for non-maintenance of minimum balance and revised service charges will be applicable to customers of former associate banks, which merged with   (SBI), only after April 24. SBI's spokesperson said the merging of data of all the five associate banks with that of   would be complete by April 24 and hence, the new charges announced by SBI would be applicable to them.

 “The   will have to be completed to commence all operations from one common platform. Once this process is completed, SBI's charges would become applicable to these customers,“ he said, adding that the minimum balance of a customer would be calculated automatically by the end of the month. If there is no sufficient balance during the end of the month, the bank will levy penalties as announced earlier, he added.
 
 Former general secretary of   Association   said the possibility of other banks following SBI's path cannot be ruled out. “These are corporate decisions taken at the highest levels. Individual banks are free to levy service charges and penalties on accounts that do not maintain minimum balance,“ he said, adding that in case RBI issues specific guidelines, the banks will have to obey the same.
 
 SBI has fixed Rs 5,000 as minimum balance for metro cities. In urban, semi-urban and rural areas, it will be Rs 3,000, Rs 2,000 and Rs 1,000, respectively . As per the list of revised charges, failure to maintain monthly average balance (MAB) in accounts will attract penalty of up to Rs 100 and service tax. In metro cities, there will be a charge of Rs 100 plus service tax, if the balance falls below 75% of MAB (Rs 5,000). If the shortfall is 50% or less, then the bank will charge Rs 50 plus service tax.
 
 V K Adarsh, an official with Union Bank of India, said that when customers withdraw huge amount through ATMs they would be forced to do multiple transactions. “If there is no money in the ATM (failed transaction) or the customer checks account balance at the ATM, they lose free transactions.“ He said that customer could use the missed call service and check the balance and opt for mobile transactions. He also pointed out that banks also levy cash carrying charge, cash transaction charges, cheque charges and bouncing charges.
 
 However, sources close to newgeneration private sectors banks said that certain banks insisted on maintaining a minimum balance of Rs 10,000. “These banks are interested in maintaining accounts of high net-worth individuals (HNIs). Though the number of account holders would much less than that of public sector banks, fund transaction through these accounts would be huge,“ said a source.
 
