BENGALURU:  , 27, arrested on Wednesday after his Mercedes Benz SUV rammed a Maruti Omni, escaped on Friday morning from  , where his aunt is a director. Police had found 110 grams of ganja in his SUV.

 A day after his escape from the hospital, police served notices to doctors and the management seeking an explanation on how he managed to leave the premises.
 
 Vishnu, the grandson of late MP and industrialist DK Audikeshavulu Naidu, was arrested in Jayanagar, and was brought to the hospital as he was feeling uneasy and his family requested treatment at Mallya Hospital. The constables were posted outside the ICU where he was under treatment.On Thursday night, doctors told them to wait near the main lobby . When the constables refused to move, doctors said nobody is allowed to stay near the ICU as patients may get disturbed and cops left their posts," a senior police officer said.
 
 Vishnu's escape came to light on Friday morning. "We asked to meet Vishnu but doctors said it was not possible since he was in the ICU. We knew his condition was not serious enough to be in the ICU and warned them of legal action if we were not allowed to see him. Then, doctors told us he had escaped," an officer said.
 
  police registered a suo motu case accusing Geetha Vishnu and his gunman of escaping from police custody .
 
 
 
 
 Police, who checked the CCTV footage, said: "Around 6.15am Friday , Vishnu is seen walking out of the ICU with the help of hospital staff. They reach the fire exit and peep and a hospital staffer waves to indicate it's okay to move. They then join Vishnu's gunman waiting in the lobby ." S  , head of operations, Mallya Hospital, told STOI the hospital has no clue about how Vishnu escaped. "We found him absconding around 6am. No IV lines were connected to him but he was in the ICU as constant monitoring can't be done in the general ward," he said.
 
 He added Vishnu had been administered medicine to en sure he relaxed and slept well."When the doctor could not see him on his bed, he first thought he had gone to the toilet. But when he did not return even after 15 minutes, police outside were alerted. That's when we realized he was missing," he said.
 
 On whether hospital staff helped him escape, Mallikarjun said: "We've seen the footage.The person who guides him is not hospital staff in uniform, but an unidentified person wearing a safari suit." He confirmed that Vishnu was the nephew of the hospital director. Stating his family has been trying to get bail, an officer said: "Courts are closed till October 3 which may have prompted him to flee."
 
