LUCKNOW: Government schools in Uttar Pradesh are all set to witness a change from the new academic session beginning from Saturday, April 1. In a fresh set of directives, primary teachers have been asked to be 'punctual’, and to make the morning assembly more 'powerful’ by including moral teachings. Inside the school premises, teachers have been asked to dress formally and make minimum use of mobile phones. 

 The directives, in fact, makes the definition of punctuality more rigorous by instructing teachers to report report half an hour before time. The morning assembly, which are usually avoided, will now not only be compulsory but will be more engaging. While one student (class-wise) will read out a 'shloka’ everyday, teachers have been asked to discourse on morality. 
 
 Top officials in the education department said most of these instructions though have existed since long but never enforced. Sample this: Government schools are well aware of conducting the morning assembly in a proper way, but they tend to either omit it totally or hold it as a mere formality. “This attitude of teachers will now change,’’ said an official, adding “teachers need to maintain dignity of their noble profession. So, they should avoid wearing casual wears like jeans and T-shirts.’’ 
 
 Issued by the assistant director, basic education, Lucknow division (comprising of six districts - Lakhimpur, Hardoi, Sitapur, Unnao, Raebareli and Lucknow), Mahendra Singh Rana, the letter (a copy is in possession of TOI) stated that teachers are supposed to sign the attendance register immediately after reaching the school, and also at the time of leaving. The school principal will examine the absenteeism of teachers through the attendance register and put his signature. For availing emergency leave, teachers will have to inform the block education officer via SMS. 
 
 On the lines of CBSE and ICSE schools, UP board teachers, too, will leave for the day only after all students have left. . Not only this, primary school teachers have been asked not to carry mobile phones inside the classrooms. But in case where this cannot be avoided, mobile phones must be put on silence mode. Teachers are expected to behave properly with the students and develop inter-perosnal skills. 
 
 Cleanliness too have been emphasised upon. All teachers and staff will ensure that the school is neat and clean. Before entering the classroom, teachers should ensure personal hygiene like cutting of hair, nails at timely intervals. Unlike before, schools have been asked to divide the students into four groups and organise cultural and sports competitions for them. Each group (house) to be named after great leaders and scholarly women, will be allotted a colour flag, said officials. 
 
 
