Panaji: There’s nothing ‘Swachh’ about Panaji’s main bus stand. The generally unsanitary conditions around the state’s premier terminus often has shopkeepers and commuters pinching their noses. Even the recent renovation of the toilet and the presence of a   hasn’t made a difference — it isn’t rare to see commuters urinate openly around the premises.

 But while commuters escape the stench as soon as their bus leaves the terminus, shopkeepers don’t have that luxury. For many of them, it’s a full-time hazard.
 
 “The stench of urine reaches its peak during the rush hours,” a shopkeeper said. “I’ve got chest infection due to constant inhalation. At this rate, shopkeepers will be left with a choice of either keeping themselves sick or shutting shop altogether.”
 
 Though there is a board that states that open urination and defecation are punishable with a fine of Rs 500, shopkeepers agreed that there is no one there to monitor this.
 
 Ashok Shetty, president of the shop owners association at the   bus stand, said, “Migrant workers and tourists are usually the ones that openly urinate. When we see them, we ourselves tell them to use the pay toilets. Thus, there is onlywarning so far. I have not seen anyone being fined till date. It is the joint responsibilityof municipality and   staff to sort out the situation.”
 
 Garbage, too, remains a problem, and so does pollution, as some shop-owners burn their garbage at the end of the day.
 
 “There is regular sweeping, cleaning, and, on Tuesdays and Thursday, door-to-door garbage collection,” a shopkeeper said. “But with the amount of garbage generated each day, regular collection is required, else we are left with no choice but to burn the dry waste.” 
 
 Earlier this month,   issued a letter to shopkeepers and bus owners to keep the premises clean. Reacting to it, a shop-owner said: “When commuters don’t have civic sense to not litter, how will we maintain cleanliness? We can’t go after all of them.”
 
 KTCL general manager SanjayGhate told TOI, “Though the board indicating a fine for open urination was installed, we have not levied any fine on any violators. But we shall soon recruit security who will keep a check on such people. The responsibility of garbage check must be taken up by the municipality.”
 
