

 
 
 Conducting an election in such a big state is a satisfying experience. We would rate it as a very transparent,  . Robust polling has taken place and with every phase the police and district administration appeared to be in complete control to maintaining law and order. The commission tried its best to ensure a free and fair poll.
 
 
 
 
 One very important reason is work done on the electoral roll since September last year.The special summary revision was the key exercise wherein all DMs were involved in making the electoral rolls up to date. Genuine voters were added and bogus ones deleted. The target was no voter be left out. Eventually, more than 50 lakh voters got added. Till the first four phases, number of voters exercising franchise went up by over 70 lakh. IT tools and mobile applications came in handy and to us and to people to make the election a very successful exercise.
 
 
 
 
 It appears to be a trend in UP. The western parts had high polling percentage while it was lower in the east even in 2012. Many factors came into play. It may be because of the candidates or the terrain, political issues or voter awareness. We are analysing it. It is intriguing to see that two regions though close to each other have a poll percentage difference of nearly 5% to 6%.
 
 
 
 
 The first challenge was to free the electoral rolls of errors and anomalies. The second was to check violation of model code of conduct which came into effect in January.Defacing of properties by posters and a dve r t i s e ment had to be checked and quantified. The next challenge was of arms deposition, seizure of liquor, identifying criminals and conducting simultaneous raids to put in place other preventive measures. As per our records, almost 22 lakh litres of liquor was seized. You can assume the volume of the whole efforts that were put in over the last one month.
 
 
 
 
 There is a people representative act. The commission has issued certain guidelines.We try to implement it through the district machinery. Sometimes, commission takes cognizance suo motto, takes a report and issue notices. Its a technical and legal issue which needs to be looked into great detail. Its all about enforcement.
 
 
 
 
 Special committee has been taking suggestions from vari ous stakeholders, includ ing people and officers. It would come up with rec ommendations as and when required. Our job is to conduct elec tions in fair and transparent manner.
 
