CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh Commission for Protection of   ( ) in collaboration with   and department of social welfare, Chandigarh Administration, organized a   for police personnel and wardens of childcare institutions at Snehalaya, Maloya.

 Around 60 participants including police officers from the anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU), women & child support unit, child welfare officers of police stations and house mothers & wardens of childcare institutions attended the workshop.
 
 Mahavir Singh, member secretary, State Legal Services Authority (SLSA), Chandigarh, stressed the need for multisectoral efforts and cooperation to improve the lives of children in difficult circumstances and suggested that through coordination of multiple stakeholders and convergences of services, standards of intervention to promote the well-being of children and safeguard their interests is a real possibility.
 
 He also highlighted the key provisions of the various child centric acts such as the Right to Free and Compulsory Education Act 2009, Protections of Children from Sexual Offences 2012 and Juvenile Justice Act 2015.
 
 Nina Nayak, former chairperson of Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KCPCR), and former member, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), spoke about the role of police and wardens and housemothers towards children entering the juvenile justice system.
 
 She emphasized that child friendly measures must be adopted at all stages to promote the dignity of children while being equally supportive of the role of their families.
 
 Harjinder Kaur, chairperson, CCPCR, said, “It is an opportune time to further prioritize our collaborative actions to ensure that we make Chandigarh child-friendly city. She also emphasized the vital importance of mother-child relationship and urged housemothers & wardens to build homely environments for holistic development of children in childcare institutions.”
 
 Prof Jitendra Mohan, professor (emeritus), department of psychology, talked about trauma faced by child victims of abuse and shared case studies and made graphic presentations in an effort to mate attitudinal changes in the stakeholders’ approach to safeguarding children’s rights.
 
 Neil Roberts concluded the session by seeking inputs from participants on challenges they face on the ground and responded through insights on practical experiences in the child welfare committee.
 
