NEW DELHI: The green lobby may see them as giant polluters, but SUVs have powered their way into the 
  , accounting for one out of every four new vehicles sold in the market.

 The data for vehicle sales, released by industry grouping  , shows the growing clout of SUVs and utility vehicles when it comes to new purchases, a trend that seems to be getting stronger with each passing year.
 
 Against a 14% share in the overall passenger vehicle sales at the end of March 2010, the same has crossed 25% at the end of March this year.
 
 And this is only going to get stronger in the coming years, if the trends and new model launches are any indication.
 
 The pace of growth in the demand for SUVs - where diesel is the preferred engine option - has been nothing short of spectacular. SUV sales shot up by 30% in 2016-17, a remarkable performance when compared to the 4% growth in sales of cars.
 
 “SUVs are a global trend and very much liked in India as well. The large and varied spread of the country, with strong challenges when it comes to road infrastructure, makes them a necessity when one wants a stronger, safer and high-seating vehicle,” said  , senior VP (sales & marketing), at  .
 
 “This trend will continue and I feel that the share of SUVs will rise to nearly 30% over the next one year.” The appetite for the off-roaders, which come with higher ground clearance and an extra punch of power to manipulate tougher terrains, has been seen across price points.
 
 So, while there has been a strong growth in the compact SUV segment (priced under Rs 10 lakh and having models such as   and Ford Ecosport), an equally robust buyer pull has been there in the bigger segments for vehicles such as Hyundai’s Creta, which is priced above Rs 10 lakh.
 
 
 
 Companies have recognised the trend and are tailor-making products that 
  . Nothing signified this more aptly than the  , a small car that sports an “SUV-like” design. “It is known as the chhota (mini) Duster in the market,” a leading industry official said, linking the Kwid’s success to its bigger sibling, the Duster SUV. 
 
 And while auto-purists may complain that all products selling in the market do not carry original SUV characteristics — brute raw power, giant proportions and 4X4 (all-wheel drive) capability — the general population does not share the sentiment.
 
 So, cross-overs and mini-SUVs (powered by smaller diesel engines and less than four metres in length) are in great demand. 
 
 “They seem to fit the bill as they are easy on the pocket when it comes to affordability, and also give a sense of off-roaders in their shape and design. The trick works with buyers and we are happy to ride the wave,” an official with a top company said, requesting anonymity. 
 
 A slew of new launches are also planned for the category, and these include vehicles by companies across all segments, ranging from   and   in the mass segment to   and   in the premium segment.
 
