KOCHI: With the probe into the   in the   hitting a roadblock, the   (SIT) is mulling over seeking further custody of prime accused   aka   The investigators on Sunday took the accused to an undisclosed location for further interrogation. 

  The police, on Wednesday, had been granted 5-day custody of the accused in the case in connection with mobile phone usage in jail. The custody period ended on Sunday.
 
  While the Infopark police maintained that there was no need for further custody in the mobile phone usage case, the SIT may demand him in custody again for further questioning with regard to the conspiracy angle in the abduction and rape of a popular actor of the Malayalam film industry.
 
  The SIT is likely to seek Suni's custody citing the need to probe into the theft of SIM card which was handed over to him for using while in jail. Other than implicating a prominent actor in the preliminary stages of the investigation, Suni is yet to spill any concrete evidence in the alleged conspiracy.
 
  Meanwhile, Imran, a Malappuram native, held for stealing the SIM card from Coimbatore, was presented before Kakkanad judicial magistrate on Sunday and was remanded to 14 days in judicial custody.
 
  Also, on Sunday, Infopark police took co-accused of Suni - Vishnu, Imran, Vipinlal, and Mesthiri Sunil - to a shop at Broadway here for collecting evidence. Police found that the accused had bought the shoe used for sneaking the cellphone into Kakkanad prison, where Suni was lodged, from here
 
  The shoe was cut open and was stitched again after placing the phone inside it.
 
  Meanwhile, the defense counsel is set to move the court raising allegations of custodial torture. B A Aloor, the counsel of Suni maintained that they would try record the statement before the magistrate alleging custodial torture of the prime accused. 
 
 While he had refrained from moving a bail plea in the rape case, Aloor maintained that they would move court with the plea in the mobile phone usage case.
 
 
