GURUGRAM: Three men have been allegedly thrashed by a group of 12 armed assailants, police said. Pradeep (27), a resident of Harsaru, was returning home on Thursday night from Basan, a village close to  , along with his cousin and a friend — both are named Deepak — when they were allegedly attacked by the group. The complainant even alleged that they even fired at them. Cops said a rivalry between the two groups would have triggered the attack. 

 Pradeep, according to police, alleged the accused came in two cars — a Polo and a Swift DZire — and stopped their car, which is a Hyundai i20. 
 
 As many as 12 people emerged out of the cars and surrounded Pradeep, his cousin and the friend. Pradeep alleged that Sunil alias Tota, a notorious criminal who jumped parole, was in the group that attacked them. Four of them, including Tota, were carrying pistols, he told police.
 
 Three other people, identified by Pradeep as Varun, Hitesh and Akshay, were carrying iron rods and pipes. He could not identify rest of them, police said.
 
 Pradeep alleged that three of them were assaulted and verbally abused. As the torture ensued, his friend Deepak managed to flee the spot. The accused, according to cops, beat up Pradeep with rods, fracturing his foot. They then fired two shots, one of which hit his cousin Deepak’s nose while the other whizzed past his shirt.
 
 Tota and his gang allegedly snatched Rs 10,000 from the, abducted the two in the Polo car, and later dumped them in Gadoli. The duo was rushed to Balaji Hospital by some residents in the village, police said.
 
 An investigation has revealed the two groups used to work together and were involved in criminal activities, but they split due to an internal feud. Pradeep told police he had rivalry with Tota, who has more than a dozen cases registered against him, including an attempt to murder.
 
 “The gang is accused of harassing builders, and supply water for construction firms. Tota is part of it,” ASI Mahender, investigating officer, said.
 
 A case has been registered under sections 25, 54 and 49 of the Arms Act and sections 147, 148, 149 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (punishment for causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) of IPC.
 
 
