Trichy: Think twice the next time you place pest control chemicals to get rid of rodents in your house as they can put the life of your child at risk. Doctors have warned of severe health complications which may even necessitate liver transplantation in small children who accidentally eat rat killer poison cakes, especially in cases when it happens more than once. 

 Government hospitals including the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy and private hospitals have been receiving such cases quite often. “There are high chances that the liver will be damaged by ingesting the rat killer poison. In such cases, liver transplantation is the only solution for the child’s survival. Hence, it’s an appeal to parents to keep these away from the reach of children,” said Senguttuvan. 
 
 The doctors also highlight the damage caused to the renal system by intake of rat killer poison. “It is quite a common incident here. We have witnessed several such cases at the government hospitals. Besides affecting the liver, kidneys were also affected in several cases. Though it can be treated, we cannot take is lightly,” said Dr D Saminathan, former director of Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children, Chennai. 
 
 He also said that most of the children were saved because they spat out the poisonous cake owing to its unsavoury taste. 
 
 Dr D Senguttuvan of Kaveri Hospitals in Trichy said that the complication by consumption of the poison can be noticed through symptoms such as jaundice. “Though some people bring their children soon after consuming the rat killer cake, several people take their children to the hospitals only after complications arise. Such children may have jaundice as symptom. We have to diagnose and treat them,” said Dr Senguttuvan. 
 
 On the other hand, he said that the frequent exposure to the rodenticide will damage the liver permanently and will require liver transplantation. 
 
 The pediatrics department of the MGM government hospital has been witnessing many cases quite often. Neo-natal specialist Dr K Senthilkumar, secretary of Indian association of pediatrics, Trichy Chapter, put the responsibility on the parents for the harm. “Several children are brought to our hospitals complaints of ingesting of rat killer poison. The treatment in instances when the child has consumed   for the first time itself will last at least 4-5 days and even more when it happens subsequently. Parents should be more careful when placing such poisonous substances in their house,” said Dr Senthilkumar.
 
 
