NEW DELHI: Not everyone is pleased with a provision of the new   policy that, once notified, would require them to pay for parking outside their homes. Residents argue that   must be put in place before a   is imposed.

 LG Anil Baijal on Wednesday reviewed the Delhi Maintenance and Management of Parking Rules, 2017, prepared by the transport department, and asked civic bodies to prepare an action plan within four months of the rules being notified.
 
 According to the draft policy, parking in residential colonies will be allowed in demarcated areas and open surfaces, and civic agencies will have to determine the base parking fee in consultation with  . The three municipal corporations and the New Delhi Municipal Council will be responsible for implementing the rule. 
 
 Illegal surface parking on colony roads is rampant due to unavailability of dedicated spaces. Residents feel that it’s not practical to charge a fee when there is no alternative available. “Most colony roads are encroached upon, as there is no space for parking. It often leads to traffic jams. People have multiple vehicles, but they don’t have enough space to park these. The government and civic bodies should first focus on creating such space before imposing a fee,” said Chetan Sharma, general secretary Confederation of NCR RWA (CONRWA).
 
 He said that while imposing double penalty for parking on street despite availability of stilt parking was feasible, collecting parking fee from colonies wasn’t.
 
 “When there is no limit on the number of cars each household can have, then how can civic bodies plan to manage fee collection? And if a fee is indeed being collected, every household should get dedicated space for parking. Civic bodies have failed to bring all properties within tax ambit. How can they ensure 100% collection of parking fee,” Sharma said.
 
 BM Bakshi, president of New Friends Colony RWA, said a multilevel parking facility in the neighbourhood was lying unused. Civic bodies should focus on developing parking lots first, he said. “It is not practical to collect parking fee from residential colonies. There are several issues that need to be resolved,” said Bakshi. He added: “Footpaths should be cleared of encroachments. The corporations have failed to streamline basic infrastructure.”
 
 The rates will be fixed by a base parking fee committee, which will be headed by the transport department commissioner and will have members from civic bodies and other agencies. As much as 25% of the total revenue collected through the parking fee will go to the Road Safety Fund; the remaining 75% will stay with civic bodies for local development work.
 
 Civic officials, however, said that they would prepare a comprehensive action plan, in consultation with RWAs, before finalising the fees. “We will consult RWAs and incorporate their suggestions. This will take some time,” a senior south corporation said. 
 
 
