Puducherry: A voyage undertaken by 15 tourists including a woman turned out to be a nightmare after their boat developed a technical snag and begun drifting mid sea 20 nautical miles from the Puducherry coast. The tourists escaped with the timely intervention of an Indian coast guard team which rescued them on Monday . 

 Police said a group of 15 tourists from different parts of the country including Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Mumbai set out on sail in a small mechanized boat with a three-member crew from Puducherry at 8am on Sunday. When they crossed 10 nautical miles from the coast the engine of the mechanized boat developed a technical snag. The boat did not have any safety and navigational tools. The standby engine also failed and the boat started drifting.
 
 The tourists panicked but managed to reach their friends in Chennai using their mobile phones. Chennai police alerted the Puducherry police, who sought the intervention of the Indian Coast Guard. A team from the coast guard set out on Sunday night to trace the boat.
 
 “The team had a tough time in tracing the boat, which does not have proper lighting facilities to help in locating it in case of emergency. The boat belongs to a French national and it does not have any valid registration. The crew did not have any permission from the authorities to venture into the sea. There are no safety or navigational tool or even tow ropes,” said a police official.
 
 The coast guard personnel managed to trace the boat, which was about to sink and rescued all the 18 people around 2am on Monday almost after 16 hours. 
 
 Inquiries revealed that an Indian-French duo has been offering adventurous sailing expeditions charging Rs 5,000 from tourists and local residents each. 
 
 Chief minister V Narayanasamy, who congratulated the police and Indian coast guard teams for rescuing the stranded tourists, ordered a thorough investigation into the episode. He directed the police to initiate appropriate action against the people if found guilty.
 
 
