PUNE: Consumers will no longer have to deal with any discrimination on the basis of caste, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation or dietary choices while buying a property. 

 Housing department officials said this is because chief minister   emphasized on an anti-discriminatory clause in the   (Regulation and Development) rules (RERA), as it is part of the Central act. 
 
 Fadnavis, in reply to TOI's text message, said the rules are pro-consumer and have been accepted as per the Centre's act, without any dilution. 
 
 Officials said the rules, which were cleared by the CM on Tuesday, would be notified within a week and put in public domain. The rules will then come into effect from May 1 in the state. 
 
 President of Credai's Pune chapter Shantilal Katariya said the move is good. "Many builders go by sentiments. We as a builders' body would now advise consumers to approach RERA authority or CREDAI. The builders have to abide by rules," he said.
 
 Despite this, activists say they wouldn't believe this, till they see it being implemented. 
 
 Razia Patel, an activist working for the empowerment of minorities, told TOI, "It is good on paper. However, practically how it will be implemented will have to be seen." Patel added that she has seen several examples of people being turned down because of their surnames or food habits. 
 
 R M Sheikh, who wanted to book a house in the Camp area in a typical Jain society, was denied occupancy. "Our papers were ready, and when we approached the developer, they told us other residents' concerns. Having stayed all our lives in the Camp area, we were aghast by this reaction," Sheikh said.
 
 Consumer forums are glad the chief minister has said the rules will be pro-consumers. "This anti-discriminatory clause is welcome as such discrimination was against the constitutional guarantee," said  's Shirish Deshpande. 
 
 Pune Grahak Panchayat's Vijay Sagar added that there were so many complaints regarding such discrimination that it was high time such a clause was included.
 
 Another consumer who was recently denied a home in a posh locality in the city said the Constitution itself provides for non-discrimination, however it was often violated. "Whether inserting such a clause in the rules will be beneficial will have to be seen," the consumer said.
 
 However, with RERA only covering transactions between builders and home-buyers and not between landlords and tenants, the protection against discrimination would not extend to those looking to rent homes, another consumer said. 
 
 "Unless the rental housing policy is notified, discrimination will continue," a student who is pursuing his doctorate degree from the city said. 
 
