Cleared/Madan

 Coimbatore: With growing vehicle population and haphazard two-wheeler driving,   witnesses five   on an average every day. While not all the accidents are fatal, most result in victims suffering serious injuries, some being maimed for life. 
 
 Avinashi Road is a hub for schools and colleges. Besides, there is an information technology park alongside Avinashi Road near the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. There are many corporate establishments too on the stretch. Avinashi Road is a national highway connecting Coimbatore to Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Chennai and Bengaluru. “This is the reason why the road has heavy traffic throughout the day,” said an officer of the traffic police department.
 
 On Thursday, an accident in front of the KMCH junction resulted in a casualty and two are battling for life. The motorist as well as the victims were at fault - the biker was speeding and the victims crossed the road without taking precautions. 
 
 Speeding is emerging as a big issue in Coimbatore, specifically on Avinashi Road. “Sometimes illegal racing is happening too,” said a traffic police officer. “The stretch from CMCH to Neelambur is wider than the road before CMCH. This gives two-wheeler riders an adrenaline rush and they speed. Speeds of 60-70kmph is normal on this stretch,” said a traffic cop. 
 
 Traffic police department and consumer activists believe that a certain high-speed bike manufacturing company should look into this issue seriously. “At least 90% of accidents involving bikes of this particular brand result in fatalities,” said a traffic police officer. Secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause K Kathirmathiyon feels that parents should firmly refuse to allow their children to buy or drive such bikes. “The 18-25 age group is vulnerable. It is for parents to handle this problem,” said he. 
 
 The biker involved in Thursday’s accident had been in another accident about a year ago. “The inspector investigating the case had warned his father not to let him ride the bike. But his father failed to do so,” said deputy commissioner of traffic police M Durai. 
 
 Another cause of two-wheeler accidents is driving on the wrong side. After Jenneys Residency, the next traffic junction is at SITRA. “This is about 1.5km. I have seen many students trying to drive on the wrong side to avoid driving up to SITRA and taking a u-turn,” said director of GRD College of Science K K Ramachandran. “At GRD, we have organised activities to create awareness about helmets, avoiding mobile phones and speeding,” he added. GRD students involve themselves in voluntary activities such as regulating traffic in front of their college to help students and teachers cross the road.
 
 
