THANE: The slow deterioration of the natural green habitats and toxic waste and rubble dumped in the wetlands in Thane are a threat to the inflow of migratory birds, said environmental experts.

 While migratory birds have made Thane green cover their home for this winter, environmentalists said that there is a noticeable decrease in the overall bird count as a result of rampant   and encroachments on wetlands over the years. 
 
 Though the Yeoor forest and mangroves at Kopri and Kalwa pockets continue to be bright spots, green activists said there is a desperate need to chalk out a conservation plan for these pockets which attract migratory birds and other animal and bird species. They claim that the continuous hacking of mangroves, trees and destruction of wetlands in the name of development has not only killed the habitats of these birds, but also impacted the climate that attracts migratory birds to Thane. 
 
 Nilesh Bhanage, founder of the Plant and Animal Welfare Society (PAWS), said, “I have been visiting forest, wetland and any natural belt for bird watching for over a decade and personally seen wetland patches in Thakurli, bordering the Thane creek and near Bhiwandi bypass road vanish under debris and construction work that are still underway. The bio-diversity-rich Parsik Hill is now covered with slums and used for open defecation. With these bird habitats being wiped out, the birds, too, will start moving soon.”
 
 He added that there was an ongoing tussle between development and environment which is seen through projects like Metro parking lot in the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) forest or tunnels under the SGNP. 
 
 “In each of these initiatives it is nature which takes a hit. Deforestation will eventually also increase the mercury levels, resulting in more birds moving away from this belt,” he said.
 
 A recent survey of the avifauna, conducted by zoologist Clara Correia and evironmental activist   in Thane East’s eco-system revealed that though the number of bird species flocking to the natural habitats has shown a slight rise because of new sightings, the overall number of birds visiting their Thane habitat has come down drastically.
 
 Purushottam Kale, president of city-based Paryavaran Dakshata Manch, said, “There are numerous laws in place for the protection of the environment. However, it is very easy for many to find loopholes through these laws. Trees uprooted in road widening activities and building constructions need to be replaced with five more trees, which does not happen in reality. We need to see stricter implementation of the laws to conserve our city’s environment. Permissions to cut trees should not be so easily sanctioned.”
 
 Parsik Hill is covered with slums and used for open defecation affecting habitat
 
 
