In the latest episode of Tu Sooraj Main Sanjh Piyaji, Kanak is shattered after seeing the footage and thinks about telling all this to Dev and he will be able to handle the situation.
 
  Kanak is in her thoughts when she is about to be hit by an auto. She is seen standing outside a temple and thinking about her father and thinking that there is nobody to help her not even her brothers.
  
  Kanak says she is feeling helpless and wants her father to return. On the other hand, someone is shown praying at the same temple where Kanak is.
  
  Sooraj ( ) finally makes an entry seen cansoling his daughter who is in distress. He guides his daughter saying he would have done what she is thinking.
  
  Sooraj says he can never stay away from his family and that Kanak should be strong.
  
  Kanka tells her father Sooraj, how   framed her and her Bhabho. She tells him how much she hates Uma Shankar.
  
  He tells Kanak that a lie which is said for someone's betterment is not wrong.
  
  Kanak finds a jalebi lying on the floor and she eats it thinking about her parents.
  
  Kanak swears to teach Uma Shankar a lesson for cheating an old woman.
  
  Back at Kanak's home, Vansh is busy selecting a sari for his Bhabho. But then he shows her a new sari that he has bought for his Bhabho. He then sings a song for his Bhabho.
  
  Babasa, Meena and Golu tell   that they will not be able to attend the 60th anniversary of their shop. They make excuses but Ved reminds them that this is an important for them.
  
  Meena tells her son Golu that they should go for their Bhabho, Sooraj and Sandhya.
  
  Bhabho is excited as she wants to see her Kanak Mishthan bhandar's decorations for the 60th anniversary celebrations. She gets emotional as Ved and Vansh sit beside her. Vansh says he is missing Kanak.
  
  It is when the phone rings and Kanak is on the other side. He tells her that he was missing her. She asks them the reason for Bhabho distributing sweets he tells her because of her wedding and starts crying.
  
  
 
  
  Ved and Vansh tell her about Bhabho being unwell and was in ICU. Kanak gets disturbed but they tell her that she is fine now.
  
  Ved tells her that they decided to sell off the shop for Bhabho's sake. Kanak gets angry but they try to calm her down.
  
  Her brothers tell her that she is being missed in these celebrations. Kanak tells them that she will be back soon.
  
  Keep watching this space for all the updates on  .
