LUCKNOW: Over 90% parents of children with   (DSD) reported at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) opt for  .

 “Patriarchal bent of society is a stark reality and a very prominent face of it is visible when we handle cases of DSD. Nine out of 10 parents of such children want son, not daughter,“ said Dr M S Ansari, paediatric urologist in SGPGI. Known earlier as intersex condition, DSD is related to genital ambiguity. The baby born lacks clear features of a baby girl or boy because of a  . It requires surgery for genital reconstruction and hormonal manipulation to assign a sex to the person.
 
 He explained that intersex condition emerges out of a chromosomal defect. “Families are exposed to counselling before they choose sex of their child.90% choose male parts for the baby despite the surgery being multi-layered and complicated and the child growing up into an infertile man,“ Dr Ansari added.
 
 Besides primary surgery and aggressive hormone the rapy , development as male involves cosmetic procedure of implanting silicon testes to give the appearance of male genitalia. One such patient would undergo the knife on the institute's annual inter national paediatric and adolescent ur ology workshop starting Friday.
 
 Informing that as many as 100 ope rations have been performed by SGPGI in the past five years, he said, “Around 75% children with DSD are actually females with undeveloped or underdeveloped genitals. Some of them have a vagina and ovaries as well along with a fleshy mass which gives the appearance of the penis. But when parents are informed they do not want the child to be a girl.“ Aware of this face of sex-selection, doctors at SGPGI wrote to the ministry of health and family welfare and pressed for a policy change but to no avail. “Though the existing framework includes ascertaining if a child is more of a boy or a girl with the help of psychiatric assessment, there is need for protocol as in case of organ donation,“ he said.
 
 Social and anti-sex-selection activist Dr   said, “The decision whether a   should be a boy or a girl after surgery may be taken by a committee including legal expect, paediatric endocrinologist, psychiatrist, sociologist and exclude the operating surgeon (to eliminate bias) as is done in several developed countries.“
 
