SURAT: Millionaire Daman bootleggers are facing tough times with Gujarat police initiating strict action against those who have managed to stay out of police reach since many years despite several summons to them. Arrests of Daman-based bootleggers have not been made in around 400 cases and over 160 individuals avoided being taken into custody. A few arrests were not made in complaints registered as far back as 2007-08.

 The police now mean business and don’t want to delay their arrests any further. The police will be approaching court with request to declare the accused as absconders under Criminal Procedure Code’s section 70. Once an accused is declared absconder and if he fails to surrender within a specified time limit, the police can initiate the process to seize his or her property with the approval of the court. 
 
 “Accused in over 350 cases registered across south Gujarat are out of police reach. Attempts were made in the past to arrest them but they managed to stay out of police reach. Police have powers to take further action since they are not cooperating in the investigation,” said Shamsher  , inspector general of police, Surat range.
 
 “We will be approaching the court with request to declare around 160 individuals, mostly bootleggers from Daman, absconders. They will have to surrender to the police immediately to avoid further action,” Singh added.
 
 Surat top cops have initiated action against bootleggers in Surat and other districts of south Gujarat after hooch tragedy. Cops having nexus with bootleggers were booked and suspended. However, bootlegging business still continues despite strict vigil forcing police to target bootleggers of Daman who control the entire network. Ramesh Patel alias   and his close aide   were arrested in December despite their desperate attempts to avoid it. They have been unable to get bail ever since their arrest due to strong objection by the police in the court. As per the new prohibition law, it has become difficult for the accused to get bail. 
 
 
