Panaji: The 20-year-old river boat, MV Lucky Seven, brought to Goa to be used as an offshore casino, may most likely be taken out of Goa to a dry dock to assess the damage. Mumbai-based Arihant   Breakers will attempt to refloat it on Monday when the tide will be at its highest and unless a dry dock to fit the vessel’s specifications are found in Goa, Lucky Seven will be on its way out.

 Salvage experts and mariners said the longer the vessel remained on the shore of Miramar, the higher the risk for it and a possible disaster.
 
 “The vessel is on the beach at the wrong time. The high waves and strong wind is creating a lot of pounding and with the swells, the vessel hull can be damaged. Once the bottom is breached, sea and sand will accumulate making the salvage task tricky and risky,” a marine salvage consultant said.
 
 Experts and Captain of Ports officials concurred that the vessel would require a damage assessment in a dry dock when the ship is lifted out of water. Given that the propulsion mechanism has been damaged during the grounding, the likelihood of the vessel going into the dry dock also increases.
 
 Due to heavy weather, the Tanzanian flag passenger ship is heaving and pitching, with the front part of the ship rising with the waves and slamming back on the shoreline. This constant stress on the hull structure is called pounding and can damage the hull plates.
 
 “The vessel’s propulsion system has been destroyed. It will go to a dry dock for inspection of damages and repairs and refit,” a member on the salvage team said.
 
 On Monday, chief minister Manohar Parrikar had directed former Haryana home minister Gopal Kanda-owned Golden Globe Hotels Pvt Ltd, the owners of the vessel, to move Lucky Seven back to Mormugao Port Trust.
 
 Vasco-based Sastech Associates has already pumped out all the fuel and oil that was onboard the vessel and is now monitoring its status till the salvage team takes over.
 
 “We are monitoring the beach for any sign of oil and are keeping a constant watch on the vessel’s position. To hold her deeper in the water and ensure she doesn’t come on the beach, we are using ballast water tanks,” an official from Sastech Associates said.
 
 While the marine barge crane, Himmat, is already present at Campal, two powerful tugs from Mumbai are on their way and are expected to reach Goa in a couple of days. Once all the equipment is in place, the salvage team will take over MV Lucky Seven, while the vessel’s crew will be evacuated.
 
 MV Lucky Seven was being brought into the Mandovi on the directions of the Goa bench of the Bombay high court. The vessel drifted off course and ran aground on Miramar beach early on Sunday after its anchor broke due to choppy weather.
 
 
