CHENNAI: In the early hours of Saturday, a video shot in the city began to gain traction online. Unlike the run of the mill concert or wedding stream that usually floods social media, this one was slightly more macabre. A Facebook user ' ' was   of a severely burning car trapped between a tree and wall near  . 

 Later in the day, after the victims were confirmed to be   and his wife Nivedhitha, the video had attracted over 94,000 views. 'Cena', who provides a commentary from the accident site for the entire length of the 3 minute 45 second video, has now drawn the ire of a section of netizens who have questioned the ethics of shooting a video when the occupants were still trapped inside.
 
 "It is cruel to telecast this live as though it's a sport entertainment and commenting so calmly. Sad to see such attitude and action for cheap publicity," remarked one Facebook user,  . His tone was echoed by several others who felt that documenting the incident was distasteful and that help could have been mobilised instead.
 
 'Cena' narrates in the video that he and his friend were on the way to   when they stopped after noticing the burning car on the side of the Pattinampakkam road, but were unable to get close due to the "strong fumes". After a brief explosion is heard a little past the 2 minute mark, his voice notes that it is "too dangerous to get close." 
 
 But while some netizens accepted that it was risky to approach the vehicle, others curtly told off the uploader, remarking that it "wasn't an exhibition to be filmed". 
 
 A few social media users steered the discussion towards preemptive measures, suggesting that car fires should be put out by sand instead of water, and that public spaces including streets should have fire extinguishers, but the criticism of 'Cena' refused to die down.
 
 "Shame on you. You are shooting a video of someone who is dying and not showing any remorse. How could you have the nerve to shoot such an unfortunate incident and post it on the social media for all others to see. Shame... shame... shame," said a social media user.
 
