
Last year, I was at the butt end of public criticism, or as my nephew pointed out, ‘Peeps online are saying your douche quotient is, like, epic.’ I’m of the age where I have to look up ‘troll’ (Being a prick on the internet because you can, according to Urban Dictionary). A piece I wrote pissed off many people. I’ve been writing for eighteen years; occasionally being torn into is par for the course. I have the right to write, you have the right to be offended, and I have the privilege not to care. So what did I learn from my recent takedown, and how has Internet refined my working knowledge of the ecology of hate?
 
 
 Unless a friend, or reader, civilly queries about the work, never respond. To respond to trolls — as I foolishly did in the past — is to go down that rabbit hole where the light at the end of the tunnel is basically God shouting: You died, honey, you lost your mind ranting back at people you didn’t know, and now you’re dead! And yet, asking you to not respond is like chopping off a lizard’s tail but then asking it not to shriek in distress and fury. But as with a lizard’s tail, that grows back, you too will recover.
 
 
 Take stock. What are people saying? Where is it coming from? If you calm down and listen through the ire you may learn something. It’s like grabbing your detractor’s black tongue to make a party purse out of it. Make purses. Fill them with knowledge, reparative conduct, evolution. 
 
 
  Go off   And go on holiday. You accomplish two things: you will not have to like photos of babies, kittens and Pramila Kaki’s decked-up dandiya gear. And as you walk on a tropical beach, with coconut trees and blue water, you’ll see your critics have despised you for an important reason. And the reason had been the beach, your ability to land there, and to relish it. The finest response to any critic is your sustained pleasure in living, and living beautifully in delicious disregard of them. 
 
 If you cannot go on holiday, take yourself to dinner. There are a myriad ways to never let others’ derision come in the way of your delight. But be careful: a crisis is also when you’ll see where you stand with friends. Block folks who cheered as the bull came for you. Watch out for the ones who simply watched from the stadium; one drink with this lot, no more. And for allies who stood up for you, in private, or in public, hold on to them: a good friend is gold.
 
 
 Moral outrage on the internet is like Monopoly money: it can mean something only if you’re very young or extremely bored. To a catfight thread on my piece I noticed a comment from an old buddy. Thank you for saying this, the impassioned young woman remarked on a thread attacking me. 
 
 Having known this woman closely, I wondered why her moral outrage was limited to my writing, when her family was listed among a coterie of Swiss bank account holders with undisclosed offshore funds? She was intrinsically more qualified to write about corruption than my politics. A critic must never sit in front of a mirror: a flawed complexion is least of the revelations. 
 
 
    advanced valuable advice for dealing with, among other things, people who hate you — make good art, he advised in a commencement address, it is your only sensible recourse. Make good art — out of your broken heart, as   exhorted — because all the people who you believe will stand up for freedom of speech, who you think will defend the right to extend an opinion, will just as easily turn against you if your viewpoint diverges from theirs. 
 
 This was my most important lesson during this particular attack: being liberal does not immunise you against a deeply internalised prejudice or a profoundly narrow way of thinking. This trolling is broadcast in sly language that is far more educated than the trolls one assumes work for rightwing nationalists with an agenda. These are the men and women you meet at Starbucks, who write for publications as august as this, who will wear T-shirts that say We Should All Be Feminists and will then think of nothing of employing women in their homes without any respect to minimum wages. Watch your back, buddy.
 
 So you don’t like something I wrote? Well, don’t read it. Does that sound a reasonable way out?   said: When they go low, you go high. To that I’ll always think of Beckett, who wrote I can’t go on, I must go on.
 
 We must go on, you and I, all of us, in spite of what we remember, and because of what we may forget. We can’t all be clever, but most of us can be kind. 
 
