JALANDHAR: Ace fullback of yesteryears Pargat Singh, who is the only player to lead the Indian men’s hockey team in two successive Olympics, has become the first candidate to get re-elected from Jalandhar Cantonment constituency to the Punjab assembly since 1952. Pargat had left SAD months before the elections and joined Congress weeks ahead of February 4 polls.

 Further, the Congress leader has even increased his margin of victory from the 2012 assembly elections. Pargat’s name to contest from Jalandhar Cantonment was cleared just 18 days before the polling – just like the last elections when he was fielded by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) just 15-20 days prior to the polls.
 
 In 2012, Pargat won by 6,798 votes on SAD ticket. This time his margin was 29,124. His votes were in fact more than the combined votes of the contestants of AAP and SAD. This time around, SAD slipped to number three as its candidate Sarabjit Singh Makkar got just 25,92 votes while AAP’s H S Walia polled 30,225.
 
 Congress won this seat after two terms, as in 2007 SAD’s Jagbir Singh Brar had defeated party’s candidate Gurkanwal Kaur, daughter of late Punjab CM Beant Singh. The constituency includes villages, which have produced several hockey Olympians. Sansarpur – cradle of hockey – which has produced over 300 hockey players, including 14 Olympians, is also part of Jalandhar Cantonment constituency.
 
 Pargat was the only SAD leader who rejected offer of being appointed chief parliamentary secretary (CPS) even as it was announced by the party after being cleared by chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and SAD president Sukhbir Badal.
 
 He remained steadfast in his stand on opposing the solid waste management plant at Jamsher village in his constituency. AAP was ready to welcome him along with cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu. However, their talks with AAP failed and both finally joined Congress.
 
 However, it was not a smooth sailing for Pargat as party colleague and former MLA Jagbir Brar was a strong claimant for the party ticket from Jalandhar Cantonment. He had even announced to ensure Pargat’s defeat from Jalandhar Cantonment. Brar finally agreed to contest from Nakodar constituency, where he lost.
 
 
