The day begins with  ,   and   informing   that they would be splitting their six points equally between them. Bigg Boss also announces that their punishment of being tied together ends. Bindu while putting kolam, requests the audience to make the most deserved contestant win. 
 
  
 The housemates of   sit together and talk about the old contestants like Anuya and Namitha. The housemates are given a daily task called 'Kandupidi Ottimudi'. The contestants are split into two teams with  ,   and Harish forming one team while Bindu, Arav and Ganesh form the other team. The teams have to find the hidden puzzles pieces in the house and complete the puzzle properly in the garden area. Snehan, Suja and Harish's team win the task from Bindu's help from the other team. 
  
  
 Later in the evening, Snehan and Arav have fun requesting Bigg Boss to present them with a mobile phone. Suja picks up the ringing phone and is given a task of convincing one housemate to have clips on their body till the next announcement from Bigg Boss. Suja selects Ganesh for the task and while she is putting on the clips, the other housemates are making fun of how she just chose him and not convinced him. 
  
  
 Ganesh sits near the phone to meditate. Afterwards, Ganesh picks the phone when it rings and is given a task of applying maida flour all over their body. Suja volunteers after Harish turns down the offer from Ganesh. While Suja is getting ready for the task, Ganesh asks Snehan if he would have wanted to task as well. 
  
  
 Meanwhile, Bindu, Arav and Harish are not happy with the way Ganesh and Suja are playing the game. They feel they are always near the phone without giving the other contestants a chance to do task and win points. Arav in a sarcastic tone also points out how ganesh couldn't drink coffee because of the clips on his body and Bindu had to feed him the coffee, but he was able to pick the phone while sitting down on the floor. 
  
  
 After Bigg Boss announces that Ganesh's points for the clip task will be affected since a clip was removed and put again, Ganesh and Suja divide the points as one point for Ganesh and nine points for Suja. Later Bindu attends the next call from Bigg Boss and is given a task of convincing a housemate to wear a t-shirt that is cut in different places. She chooses Harish for the task. 
  
  
 In the night, the housemates are given a ticket to finale part 2 task called 'Paathu Bathiram'. Part one of the task is that the housemates will be given a egg and a holder too. They have protect their eggs and should carry them all the time. They will get more points if the steal or break other contestant's eggs. The housemates during this task will also be given other task and they should perform those with these eggs. 
  
  
 Each housemates paint their eggs to identify easily. The hosuemates are given a sack race task and later another hopping task. Suja wins the sack race against Harish and Arav, while Bindu wins it against Snehan and Ganesh. Later Ganesh ask the housemates to move away from the camera near the confession room to announce their splitting of points for the maida flour task since Suja wants privacy. The two seem to be playing smart since they spilt their points this time as Ganesh takes nine points and and Suja takes one point. 
  
  
 Harish wins the hopping task against Suja and Arav, while Snehan wins against Ganesha and Bindu. The housemates discuss who will be winning points depending on the timing of each contestant in completing the task. Meanwhile, Suja thinks about breaking the other contestants house instead of stealing it. The housemates end the day with Suja 58, Ganesh 52, Snehan 48, Bindu 40, Arav 37 and Harish 23 points. 
  
  
 Bigg Boss makes an announcement that the housemates can steal and hide other contestants eggs, but not hide their own eggs. Arav, Bindu, Harish and Snehan make fun of Ganesh asking too many questions about performing a task among themselves. 
 
