LUCKNOW: Responding to the Election Commission’s notice issued to it over the money deposited in its bank account after the demonetisation announcement on November 8 last year, the   has said that the whole exercise was `politically motivated' to tarnish the image of the party and dent its prospects during the ongoing assembly elections in UP.

 Party national general secretary and RS MP, Satish Chandra Mishra in a letter sent to the ECI on March 3 said that the writ petition (M/B) of 2014 (PIL) (Civil) was filed by the BJP through its ‘agents/workers’ with the sole objective to defame the BSP. Mishra said that there have been media reports about large amount of cash being deposited in the bank accounts by BJP, Congress and the Samjawadi Party before, during and after the demonetisation exercise. He also quoted an ADR report which said that an unknown source of income of BJP is Rs 2,125.91 crore, Congress is 3323.39 crore and Samajwadi Party is Rs 766.27 crore.
 
 This, he said, was many times more than genuinely and legally deposited amount by the BSP in the bank. Mishra said in the letter: “In order to ensure transparency and accountability in party funds and expenditure and achieve the laudable object of transparency and to avoid any discriminatory and singled out treatment by asking only one political party (BSP) to furnish the information sought, it would be just proper and also necessary to request the other national and regional parties to disclose the total amount of cash deposited by them during the last 12 months ie before, during and after demonetisation in the financial year 2018-17 and the agencies from which the amount has been received.”
 
 The letter added: That in the view of an interest of justice a formal notice may kindly be issued to all national political parties.'' Mishra said that this is necessary to obviate any inference of discrimination against BSP as the notice dated March 2 was received by BSP later but before that all news channels had already started playing it.
 
 In the notice, the EC has drawn attention of BSP leaders toward the commission’s transparency guideline and the Allahabad high court order over a writ petition filed in the court, in which the petitioner alleged that large notes of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 denomination were deposited in the party’s bank account within a short period on different days after demonetisation. 
 
 Directing the BSP president or general secretary to submit their reply by March 15, the EC had said that under the transparency guideline issued on August 29, 2014 for political parties contesting elections, it was made clear that any amount or donation received in cash shall be duly accounted in relevant account books and deposited in the party’s bank account within a week of its receipt. Mishra said that the party would be filing its detailed reply by the due date.
 
 
