I’ve never done it before. Not likely to do it again. I actually handed over my review to my guest for his expert comments. The reason?   is a health café and bar with a difference. And my guest is an internationally recognised expert in integrative and lifestyle medicine, who consults out of NYC, London, Dubai and India. Not only has the charming and knowledgeable   co-authored a bestseller on Indian diet with   but also specialises in holistic nutrition (from obesity to cancer). So other than the taste, is it really healthy? Is 212 All Good really All Good?

 
 
 It’s tucked into the bustling Phoenix High Street, done up with wooden tables, white garden chairs and has an airy, cheery pleasant feel. Also has pots of microgreens (which will be served up, too).
 
 
 
 Did we say health café? A hurrah for the (believe it or not) Burger... in-house made gluten-free bread encasing a protein-rich delicious lamb patty, raw enzyme rich salad with tofu and cashew mayo. “Finally a healthy burger,” opines Luke. We love the tasty Sweet Potato Fries, which “beat the normal potato fries any day… Loaded with vitamin C, an immunity booster and a super option for kids,” he adds.
 Vegan delight. Unusual low carb Cauliflower Risotto with its base of cauliflower and cashew sauce, with microgreens. The Baked Fish (with protein-rich chickpeas and grated coconut) is a “super blend of protein and essential fats”. 
 “I like the house carrot ketchup and the spice sauce, bursting with flavours, and no sugar,” says Luke. End with the Pumpkin Pie wholegrain crust with no refined sugar. Orange and Almond Flour Cake is “complex carb, a nice mix of protein, no refined sugar… and it tastes like dessert!”
 
 
 
 Though the idea of “homemade cola” sounds super, the infusion of raw sugar caramel, palm jaggery and herbs has an avoidable bitter aftertaste. 
 Pad Thai maybe a good attempt at replacing the noodles with tender coconut but it lacks the Thai punch. The Cauliflower base of the pizza is unique but lacklustre.
 Dairy-free coffee (The almonds, oats, coconut milk didn’t go too well with the coffee). No Portobello available.
 
 
 
 What comes out of its kitchen are healthy, tasty options. What goes into its kitchen are top-notch ingredients from relatively local sources and everything is homemade (from sauces to cashew cheese, dairy-free milk to colas). In addition to a head chef with obvious talent, 212 All Good had on board a consulting nutritionist who is a maestro at healthy substitution and makes certain that dishes have optimal ratios of meats to vegetables and are loaded with nutrition. Kudos Romil Ratra, Chef Paul Kinny and Moina Oberoi for this open through the day (breakfast and a stocked bar, too) café. 212 All Good carves out a zone of its own, championing a gastrointestinal Feng Shui and more than lives up to its name.
 
