SURAT:   problems are acute in rural areas of Gujarat compared to urban clusters. Doctors claim that their finding was in sharp contrast to national observation as the number of people found suffering from   in rural areas was double than those in the state’s urban clusters. The recently held National Mental Health Survey (NMHS) in the state found that around 10 per cent population in the rural areas suffered from mental health problems compared to 5 per cent in the urban clusters. The NMHS found that 1.80 lakh adults in the state were suffering from severe mental disorders and that 5.5 lakh had experienced it at least once in their lifetime. The survey also revealed that around 42 lakh people above 13 years of age were suffering from one or more mental morbidities and required immediate treatment. On an average, 7.37 per cent people surveyed were suffering from mental illnesses which included addictions. 

 The survey was conducted in 12 states across the country. It was conducted in Surat by department of psychiatry and department of community medicine,   (GMC), Surat. The survey was conducted as per the national plan in Narmada, Navsari and Surat districts. A total of 950 households were surveyed and responses of 3,168 individuals considered. Of them, 234 people were found suffering from mental illness.
 
 “The districts were selected at national level as per the model prepared and based on their results, we are projecting the average mental illness prevailing among the population of the state. Majority of the findings happen to be similar to national findings,” said Ritambhara Mehta, head of psychiatry department, GMC, Surat. 
 
 “It was a surprise for doctors of psychiatry to know that rural areas had higher mental morbidity compared to urban areas. This is in contrast to the medical and general belief,” said  , associate professor, GMC.
 
 “The findings of this scientifically conducted survey will help the government to prepare a plan for treatment of those suffering from mental morbidity,” said Jayesh Brahmbhatt, dean, GMC.
 
