After 42 years,   will get the chance to visit the reel Ramgarh aka  ! A new proposal jointly mooted by the Ramanagar district administration and   has been submitted to the state government to recreate the Ramgarh village. As per the plan, an auditorium will be built at the Ramgarh village and visitors can head to the auditorium, which will offer them a three-dimensional virtual tour. This way, the audience will get a real feeling of Sholay, the movie.

 Speaking to Bangalore Mirror of the ambitious plans, an official said, “Even after 42 years, some of the iconic dialogues of Sholay like Ye Haath Humko De De Thakur, Kitne Aadmi The, Basanti In Kutton Ke Samne Matt Nachna, Tera Kya Hoga Kaaliya or Jo Darr Gaya Samjho Marr Gaya are still popular. So our plan is to make it either a sound-and-light show or a walking tour around the Ramgarh village. We had discussed the idea in social media and got excellent support.”
 
 The Ramadevara hills near Ramanagar was the place where most of Sholay was shot. Initially, it was planned to convert the place into a Sholay spot. In fact, the Ramadevara Hills was pasteurised as Gabbar’s hideout in the movie. However, the Ramadevara Hills plan had to be shelved as it comes under an eco-sensitive zone and is a part of Karnataka’s only vulture sanctuary. So, the plan shifted from Rama-devara Hills to Ramgarh village, which was created for the movie. The plan has been proposed under a PPP model at a cost of Rs 7.5 crore.
 
 Currently, the proposal is being considered by the state government. “If the state approves the plan, we are planning it to take up with the private people including Sholay director Ramesh Sippy. We are really proud that even after four decades, Sholay is still one of the most popular movies. We are proud to have
 
 associated with it and want people to enjoy more of it,” the official added.
 
 Tourism minister Priyank Kharge is excited about the project, and said that the government was considering it and as cinema was a powerful medium, one that can attract a lot of tourists. In fact, every weekend hundreds of tourists head to Ramangara hills.
 
  
  
 
 The place is not known just for the Sholay shoot but also for adventure tourism. A number of caves and boulders here enthral visitors.
 
 The Sholay touch will only add to it. The officials hope that the Sholay village will do to Ramanagar what Dilwale Dulhaniya Lejayenge did to parts of Switzerland. Officials maintain that thousands of people from India visit Switzerland just to see those places where   shot DDLJ.
 
 
 
