In preparation for a long, dry summer in Bengaluru, and in lieu of the plummeting water levels at the   (KRS) Dam, the BWSSB is in the process of putting together a plan to ensure that the city’s water needs are met. Parallely, several venues in the city are hosting   parties this weekend and many are looking at attracting revellers with a rain dance. With the water supply in the city already hit, how are these venues arranging for so many litres of water that will literally go down the drain?

 
 
 Event organizer Vishal Ramesh, who is planning a Holi party for a city resort, says that they need elements like a rain dance to attract people, but at the same time, he feels a sense of social responsibility to ensure that not too much water is wasted. “We are not using the swimming pool in the resort, and are actually promoting a dry Holi with organic colours. To ensure that not too much water is wasted, we will use nozzles for the rain dance. The party will be from 12 pm to 5.30 pm, during which we will be using the water of just one tanker, which we will be hiring. Also, the resort has a facility to drain and recycle the water, which can be used to water the lawn the next day,” he says.
 
 
 
 But not all venues have plans of recycling water. Sagar Bhat, who is organizing a party at a star hotel, says that there will be a separate setup for the rain dance, for which fresh water will be used from huge water tanks. “The rain dance will be held for 30 minutes, with 20 minute breaks in between. The consumption of water will be high, so we don’t want to waste too much water. We are expecting around 3,000 people and the rain dance should go on for a total of around three hours, for which we will probably need two large tanks of water,” he says.
 
 Shubhobrato Ray, General Manager of a star hotel where a party with rain dance is being held this weekend, says that they are relying on water collected through rain water harvesting. “Our event is from 10 am to 4 pm, and the rain dance will probably be for around two hours. We do rain harvesting at our hotel throughout the year and will be using the excessive water collected from that for the party,” he says.
  
  
 
 
 While most venues are going ahead with their plans to host a rain dance, one high-end lounge bar has decided to do away with it just a couple of days before the party due to a fear of backlash. “The rain dance stands cancelled at this point in time as the organizers are apprehensive that it may upset some people and we may face issues along the lines of the   protest last year,” Dhana Lakshmi, an event organizer, revealed.
 
  
 
 Event planner   suggests alternative ways to celebrate the festival of colours
 
 
