THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Claiming a 99.12% achievement under its total electrification project covering houses even in remote belts, the electricity department is hopeful of declaring Kerala a fully electrified state by end of April. "Only 12,000-13,000 houses are left to be electrified, which include connections requiring sanctions from forest department and some houses which are unwired," power minister M M Mani told reporters here on Friday. 

 "This is a great achievement and a proud moment. We will declare the state totally electrified only after bringing power to those houses left to be electrified, which can be achieved within a few weeks," he said.
 
 The project has been implemented spending Rs 174 crore, 50% of which came from  's own fund and the rest contributed from   and MP funds and allocations from SC/ST department and LSGD. "I contributed Rs 1 crore from my MLA fund. I think all the MLAs have contributed to this project. If anyone has not done so, we will be revealing their names," said Mani.
 
 The minister, who visited Edamalakkudy, the remote tribal village in   the other day to review the electrification works, said the KSEB was doing a great job in covering remote areas and tribal belts to achieve the total electrification target. 
 
 "Around 40 employees including those deployed from other districts were working hard in Edamalakkudy, where cable had to be laid in a tough terrain over a distance of 30 kilometres, spending Rs 5 crore," he pointed out.
 
 KSEB chairman   who was present at the press conference along with additional chief secretary  , said around 77,000 houses out of the total 1.34 lakh houses to be electrified were found unwired. "Solar power plants and small hydel projects were executed in forest areas where laying cables was found impractical. As of now, 124 assembly constituencies have been totally electrified," he said.
 
 The KSEB chairman also said though scant rains had increased the expenditure, the board's financial position was better compared to those in other states.
 
 
