NEW DELHI: Why are Delhi government’s two super-specialty   not being put to  , the high court demanded on Wednesday.

 Taking a serious view, a division bench of Justices S Ravindra Bhat and Yogesh Khanna summoned the directors of   and Janakpuri Super Speciality Hospital to appear and explain their failure to operate at full potential.
 
 The court was surprised to find that despite being ready eight years ago, both the hospitals are still not fully operational.   also ordered both the hospitals and Delhi government to file a comprehensive affidavit detailing number of beds, sanctioned strength of staff and patients admitted till now. It also sought how much funds have been allocated to the hospitals by the government with details of its spending.
 
 When the authorities tried to pacify the court by claiming that OPD unit is running successfully from the hospitals, the court demanded to know why in-house proper treatment of patients is not being done. It pointed out that thousands of poor people wait for days outside AIIMS and other government hospitals.
 
 The court intervened on a PIL filed by Ramesh Chander, whose counsel   highlighted before the bench that despite several chances to clearly indicate the number of sanctioned posts of doctors and their appointments, neither the government nor the hospitals have filed a detailed response.
 
 Filed in 2014, the PIL complained that the two super-specialty hospitals built by Delhi government at a cost of over Rs 150 crore were still not ready to take in patients, 16 years after the projects were started.
 
 The 650-bed Rajiv Gandhi hospital in east Delhi and 300-bed Janakpuri hospital in west Delhi have been repeatedly touted by successive state governments as an example of enhanced specialised healthcare facilities. The PIL argued that despite these claims, not a single patient had been admitted in the hospitals and urged the court to issue directions.
 
 Delhi government had initially planned to run them on public-private partnership model, but failed because the private players remained aloof fearing that the revenue model was not profitable. Later, the government appointed directors at both the hospitals.
 
 
