CHANDIGARH: The enthusiasm of local fans may have gone down due to the absence of the hosts and defending champions Punjab Warriors in the knockouts, but the four   (HIL) semifinalists are focused on the task at hand. This season's two in-for teams ­   and   will take on   and  , respectively, at the Sector-42 Sports Complex on Saturday.

 Title-holders Warriors finished at the bottom of the league table, winning just four of their 10 matches. They were accompanied by 2015 champions Ranchi Rays, who finished in the fifth position. That allowed the Wizards and Waveriders to sneak into the semis behind No. 2 Lancers and table-toppers Mumbai.
 
 In the first semifinal on Saturday, the Lancers and Wizards will face off, with the scales loaded in favour of the former on current form. The Lancers, who had five wins, 4 losses and 1 draw in the league stage, finished with 28 points, followed by the Wizards at No. 3 with 25 points from 3 wins, 4 draws and 3 losses.
 
 Despite being walloped by the Wizards 10-0 at home and then being held 2-2 in the away fixture, the Moritz Fuerste-led Lancers have played better hockey this season. But having not beaten the Wizards this season will surely be at the back of Lancers' minds.
 
 German Fuerste has led the Lancers from the front, sitting at No. 3 in the list of goal-scorers with nine strikes. Ahead of him in the list is team-mate Glenn Turner, who has struck 10 goals.
 
 In comparison, UP's attack has been led by Indian recruits Akashdeep Singh and Ramandeep Singh, who have scored 8 and 7 goals, respectively. If PR Sreejesh can block out Fuerste, Turner & Co., aided by VR Raghunath in defence, the Wizards will have enough teeth to continue their unbeaten run against the Lancers. 
 
 The battle between Mumbai and Waveriders will decide the second finalist. Like the Wizards, Delhi too have just three wins in 10 matches and got through only due to a better goal difference (+6) than Ranchi (-1) who also finished with 23 points. But in Mumbai, Rupinder Singh's boys will face a superior-looking team.
 
 It will be Mumbai's maiden appearance in the HIL semis, which comes on the back of a brilliant home run, which helped them win six of their 10 matches and finish on top of the leaderboard with 35 points.
 
 In  , Mumbai have a captain leading from the front ­ sharing space at top of the goal-scoring chart with Turner at 10 goals. And then, they have FIH Goalkeeper of the Year,  , in the post, proving to be an impregnable wall. Delhi have scored the least number of goals (29) among the four semifinalists. 
 
