CALANGUTE: A gram sabha of Calangute panchayat on Sunday unanimously adopted a resolution to ‘fight tooth and nail’ any attempt to convert the arterial Candolim-Calangute road, also known as major district road (MDR) 10, into a national highway. 

 The gram sabha, attended by a large number of people, was chaired by Calangute acting sarpanch Joseph  . 
 
 Sequeira pointed out that the road is approximately 500 metres from the beach, and in view of the recent   order banning all liquor outlets within 500 metres of all national and state highways, all the bars and restaurants besides liquor outlets located within 500 metres on either side of the MDR 10 would have to be shut down. “This will finish tourism in Calangute,” he said. 
 
 “People living by the side of the road will be the worst affected as their houses and structures will have to go, if the road is made into a national highway which will have to be 45 metres wide. If the houses are demolished where will the people go?” he questioned. (As per guidelines, a four-lane highway should have a width of 23.5 metres and a six-lane highway should be 43.6 metres.) 
 
 Sequeira quoted various media reports to highlight the ambivalent stance of the state government. “Former PWD and transport minister has been quoted saying this would benefit the state. This is a serious issue. We will, under no circumstances, allow any road in Calangute to be declared a highway. The   government had first finished off mining, and now they want to finish off tourism,” he said.
 
 Other speakers at the gram sabha also expressed similar fears, as many of the coastal roads, especially in Calangute, have been widened as part of the ‘Sagarmala’ project. 
 
 “A national highway passing through Calangute would not benefit us in any way,” said another speaker, vowing to physically prevent the PWD or any other agency from carrying out a detailed project report, which needs to be prepared before any road is declared a national highway. “Nothing can be done against the sentiments of the people,” he said.
 
 
