LUCKNOW: Referring to Lucknow Cantonment seat as the VVIP seat where top leaders from the   and Congress were milling to pitch for SP nominee  , chief minister   said Lucknow should set an example by voting decisively and in favour of a government that has delivered on all its promises. 

 Accompanying senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad to campaign for ‘chhoti bahu’ Aparna, Akhilesh said, “Lucknow VIP sheher hai aur Cantt vidhan sabha double VIP. Netaji se leke Dimple aur ab main aapse vote maangne aaya hoon. Aparna Yadav ko ek-ek vote deke jitaiye.” (Lucknow is a VIP constituency and Lucknow Cantonment seat even more VIP because it has had top leaders - from Mulayam Singh Yadav to Dimple and I come and campaign. Every vote should be cast in favour of Aparna this time.)
 
 Coinciding his campaign programme for Aparna with a full-fletched trial run of the Lucknow Metro on Thursday, Akhilesh also played up the SP government’s ability to deliver on its promise of development. Responding to prime minister Narendra Modi’s barb earlier in the day that the Centre would give an account of its achievements in 2019, not before, Akhilesh quoted socialist ideologue Ram Manohar Lohia and said people did not wait for 500 days to seek an account of work delivered. “Hum hisaab-kitaab isi chunaav mein leke rahenge,” Akhilesh said. (We will seek accountability in this election only.) 
 
 The CM also said the people of UP should be wary of the PM’s I-am-UP’s-adopted-son emotional plea and not vote for a set of people who promised the moon and delivered nothing. Attacking both Modi and BSP chief Mayawati as leaders who could get together to form a government despite Mayawati’s emphatic assurance tht she won’t, Akhilesh said, “God liye hue beton se bach ke rehna. Bua se bhi bachna...Holi ke baad kahin raksha bandhan to nahi aata? mil ke sarkar bana saktey hain.” (Be careful of adopted sons and bua. Who knows, after Holi (on March 13) she may tie the rakhi to BJP and form the government.) 
 
 The CM also attacked the PM for alleging the Samajwadis ran UP police stations. “The prime minister made multiple visits to foreign countries but brought back nothing to India. SP government sent its officers abroad and they came back to implement UP 100, the 24-hour help line that has no parallel in the country.” 
 
 Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, who also campaigned for Aparna on Thursday said the country and its people had suffered at the hands of Modi’s demonetisation move, killing many, rendered scores of people jobless, and hurt the economy. Saying that the SP-Congress alliance was an attempt to bring together two youthful, secular ideologies, Azad also said this was a coming together meant to defeat divisive forces. 
 
