INDORE: Speakers of six countries will deliberate on ways to achieve   during a two-day South Asian Speakers’ Summit beginning here on Saturday.

 The summit, to be inaugurated by Lok Sabha Speaker   on Saturday, will be attended by presiding officers and delegates from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Sri Lanka, Maldives and Nepal. It will conclude with the adoption of an ‘Indore Declaration’ - laying down the outcome of the discussions and action points agreed upon by the participants - at a closing ceremony on Sunday.
 
 Among those who arrived in Indore on Friday evening were Lok Sabha deputy speaker Dr M Thambidurai, Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) president Saber Chowdhury, National Assembly of Afghanistan Speaker Abdul Raouf Ibrahimi, Parliament of Bangladesh Speaker Dr Shirin Sharmin Chaudhury, National Assembly of Bhutan Speaker Jigme Zangpo, Parliament of Maldives Speaker Abdulla Maseeh Mohamed and Parliament of Nepal Speaker Onasari Gharti.
 
 The Speaker of the Sri Lankan legislature, Karu Jayasuriya, is expected to reach Indore on Saturday morning, official sources said.
 
 The summit will have a plenary session on ‘Identifying Resources for SDGs Implementation in South Asia: Opportunities for Parliamentary Cooperation’ on the inaugural day. The session will inform the delegates about the implementation of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the South Asian region and will discuss ways in which legislatures can ensure that adequate financial and other resources accompany implementation of national and regional strategies.
 
 A working session on ‘Gender Equality As A Critical Factor For Sustainable Development’ will discuss opportunities that the SDGs present to strike a better gender balance, and to determine the gender impact of sustainable development policies. The delegates will also participate in a session on climate change, discussing how parliaments of the region can cooperate and share resources to address the challenges posed by this very crucial act of nature.
 
 The delegates will leave for Mandu on a post conference tour on February 20.
 
