PATNA: Even as lakhs of college and university teachers in the country, including those from Bihar, are seething with discontent over the inordinate delay in their pay revision, the union HRD ministry is reportedly sitting on the recommendations of the seventh pay review committee. The pay of university teachers was last revised in 2006 and its next revision was due in 2016.

 All India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (Aifucto) general secretary and Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar (Futab) secretary Arun Kumar told TOI on Wednesday that the pay review committee constituted by the UGC submitted its recommendations to the HRD ministry more than three weeks back, but the same are yet to be made public. The recommendations are not being shared with the representatives of teachers and neither any step has been initiated for its implementation. 
 
 “The Union government has already approved revised pay for all its staff and officers in the country,” he said.
 
 The Aifucto functionary regrets that despite frantic efforts made by the teachers’ bodies, the pay review committee’s recommendations have been kept confidential. However, parts of the recommendations are coming out in newspapers at regular intervals. This is a dangerous precedence and the manner in which the entire subject is being handled raises suspicion in the minds of teachers. 
 
 Kumar said the entire report of the pay review committee should be made public at the earliest so that the salient features of the recommendations could be discussed by all the stakeholders before their implementation. 
 
 The Aifucto has repeatedly stressed throughout its struggle that an attractive payscale is needed to attract the young talent to the teaching profession and also to improve the standard of higher education in the country, he said.
 
 The national executive of Aifucto will be meeting on March 18 and 19 at Periyar University in Tamil Nadu to discuss the situation arising out of the delay in implementation of revised pay and decide the future course of action, added Kumar.
 
 
