GURUGRAM: A city court has ordered a fresh probe into the death of Kuldeep Singh (25), who was found hanging in an abandoned house at   — some 10-15km from Gurugram — in May 2015. Though the police had closed the case then claiming it to be a case of suicide, the court of judicial magistrate Ashish Arya has passed the order on a petition filed by Kuldeep’s mother Pushpa Devi, who alleged that her son was murdered.

 Pushpa alleged that Rekha and her family, with the connivance of police, had killed Kuldeep for rejecting her and marrying someone else.
 
 Pushpa claimed that they belonged to the SC category and thus, she had advised her son, the sole breadwinner of the family, against marrying Rekha, who was from a different caste. Kuldeep had conceded to it, and married Geeta in November 2014. 
 
 But, according to Pushpa, Rekha kept meeting him and threatening him. Also, she allegedly threatened Geeta once, saying she knew Ajit, a cop, and other police officers, who would help her kill Kuldeep.
 
 On May 7, 2015, Kuldeep went missing. Next morning, a police officer from   police station called her and said they had found a man dead and asked her to go to the site for identifying the body. Kuldeep’s father   went and saw the body hanging. However, according to Pushpa, her husband was tricked by the police into signing some papers, which stated they accepted it to be a suicide and did not suspect foul play.
 
 Moreover, the police did not hand over the body to the family and allegedly cremated it in a hurry. None of the family members was present during the cremation. Pushpa further alleged that the investigation officer SI Atmaram and the then SHO accepted bribe from Rekha’s family and refused to register any FIR in the case. When her repeated pleas to the police commissioner, the home minister and the chief minister went in vain, she moved Punjab and Haryana high court, demanding a CBI/SIT investigation. The high court in February last year sent the case to the lower court.
 
 Rekha’s father Bir Singh and the village sarpanch allegedly offered Kuldeep’s parents Rs 1.5 lakh to settle the matter outside court, but she refused to withdraw the case.
 
 Finally last month, the lower court ordered the police to file an FIR in the case. Accordingly, on Thursday, an FIR was filed against ASI Ajit, SI Atmaram and Rekha and her family members under various sections of the IPC and the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.
 
 
