NEW DELHI:   is planning to celebrate   of the   government in a grand way.   will be spread over almost a fortnight, when chief ministers, Union ministers,   and   will reach out to people to propagate how various programmes have helped the people and educate them about the government’s achievements.
 
  A meeting of BJP office-bearers and party’s senior-most leaders were held on Saturday to discuss details of the programmes that will be held to mark the third anniversary of Modi government, which assumed office on May 26, 2014. Programmes will be held in the national capital and across various state capitals and districts.
  
  “Each BJP chief minister is likely to address four programmes, of which some will be held in a different state. Each Union minister is likely to participate in one programme in his or her constituency and another in some other district. The focus of celebrations will be on how the government schemes have benefited the people,” a senior BJP central office-bearer told ET.
  
  The celebrations will begin on May 26 and are likely to last a fortnight. The party is mulling over a slogan to mark the occasion. A programme at India Gate is also in the works. It is not yet revealed where Modi and BJP president Amit Shah will spend the day. Shah is likely to hold a press interaction in Delhi on May 27, party insiders said.
  
  The programme will be given a final shape by May 12, say party leaders. Information and broadcasting minister M Venkaiah Naidu, away in Kenya on an official tour, is spearheading the government programme preparations. BJP general secretary Arun Singh is in charge of the party programmes. BJP is in power in 13 states and these state units will actively participate in the programmes. “Even our party MLAs will be sent to programmes in different states,” a BJP office-bearer said.
  
  The party is making all-out efforts to increase its political footprint in south India and the northeast and states where it has been traditionally weak. Shah, who spent two days in Tripura last week, is headed to Tamil Nadu for a three-day visit from May 11. The NDA government’s third anniversary celebrations will also be held in constituencies where BJP has not fared well in elections. “The aim is to make this year’s celebrations unique and different from last two years,” a senior party leader said.
