JAIPUR:  , the man who first invented the word   made a presentation at the   on Tuesday, ahead of the two-day   at Mansagar Lake in the city.

 This year will mark 20 years of the birding fair at Mansagar. Harsh Vardhan, who has led the initiative to conserve Mansagar and make it a birding site, said it was from Appleton that he took the cue and began the birding fair in Jaipur 20 years ago, with support from volunteers. 
 
 In his presentation, Appleton, who for over 40 years served as manager of the Rutland water reserve near Leicestershire in the East Midlands of England, spoke with passion about how the fair has now come to be a huge conservation event – the money generated by it is ploughed into conservation efforts across the world, through Birdlife International, a global partnership of conservation organizations. 
 
 The Rutland fair was first held in 1989. Since then, it has grown to become a major event. “This is now an industry,” Appleton explained, saying that the fair is now visited by companies seeking to attract wildlife tourists, people selling or needing birding equipment like binoculars or cameras, or just looking for interesting lectures and discussions. Over 20,000 visitors from across the world arrived at the fair last August, Appleton said.
 
 Appleton said people from across the world gather for the sake of wildlife conservation – showing one slide, he commented that those in the photograph came from Israel, Palestine and Jordan. Even when nations do not get on comfortably with each other, people are drawn together by a common interest in wildlife, he said.
 
 He said that 12,725 sites have been identified across the world as IBAs – Important Bird Areas. Funds gathered at the fair have so far been channeled into conservation efforts in Malta, Cuba, Peru, Spain, Myanmar, Ethiopia, Australia and several other countries. Over four million UK pounds have so far been contributed to the conservation effort globally through the annual Rutland fair.
 
 Appleton spoke of how some simple measures could go a long way in conservation – of the 22 species of albatrosses in the world, 18 were in the endangered list by 200, because of what is called ‘longline’ fishing. These are fish boats that go out into the sea and lay a long line behind them, with hooks holding baits that floated. The albatrosses would swoop down thinking the bait was prey, but get hooks in its beaks. “Now, these fishing boats lay lines that go deep into the sea, not far out on the surface,” Appleton said, adding that this had helped to save the albatrosses. 
 
 Appleton spoke of the need to save forests across the world – some endemic species are found nowhere else, and the destruction of a particular forest in Madagascar, for instance, might mean the extinction of several species found nowhere else, he said. 
 
 
 
 
