BALASORE/BERHAMPUR/KENDRAPADA: In a sequel to the first two phases, attacks to trigger terror among opponents continued in two key coastal districts as the state polled in the third phase of rural elections on Friday.

 Senior BJP leader and former MLA Pratap Chandra Sarangi was allegedly assaulted late on Thursday when he was with his supporters at the Raj Berhampur party office in Balasore's Nilgiri block. Sarangi and eight of his party supporters were injured. 
 
 Sarangi alleged that more than 50   members, including Akshya Behera, an aspirant for panchayat samiti member assaulted him and his supporters with sticks, stones and sharp weapons. They also damaged two vehicles belonging to BJP. Members of the saffron managed to escape and report the matter to police.
 
 "Miscreants forcefully entered our party office. They used slangs and attacked us with sticks, swords and stones. I was injured severely. panchayat samiti member aspirant Akshaya Behera, 46, attacked us. We lodged police complaints against 38 BJD supporters, including Behera," said Sarangi. He and his supporters staged an overnight dharna in front of Raj Berhampur police station demanding arrest of the miscreants. Countering the allegation, BJD district president Anata Das said Sarangi distributed money among voters late in the night. He said no BJD supporter attacked him. Sub-divisional police officer (Nilgiri) Swapneswar Mohapatra said police are probing the incident.
 
 Violence was also reported from politically-sensitive Ganjam district, the home turf of chief minister   and many ministers. One person was killed, two injured and vehicles, including that of BJD MLA (Polasara) Srikant Sahu, damaged in election-related incidents in Buguda block on Thursday. 
 
 The deceased, Sisir Nayak, 38, of Belapada village in Pangidi panchayat, was the supporter of a rebel BJD sarpanch candidate. He along with his associate Prahallad Swain was returning to the village when some miscreants attacked them. Nayak died at   and Hospital, where Prahallad is battling for life. 
 
 In another incident, some miscreants, supposedly   supporters. pelted stones at the vehicles of BJD MLA (Polasara) Srikant Sahu and his supporters at Bhamasiali village. The legislator was not hurt in the incident, police said. In the counter attack, his supporters allegedly hurled bombs in front of the house of Congress leader Gokulananda Mallck at Buguda on Thursday night. Police said no one was injured and forces were deployed near his house. 
 
 In another incident in the same block, Santosh Bhola, husband of Bijayalaxmi, a sarpanch candidate in Antarapada panchayat was injured as her opponents attacked him.
 
 In Kendrapada district, 12 persons were injured in poll-related violence. 
 
 In a related development, Ganesh Kundu, the kidnapped son of Sabitri Kundu, a zilla parishad candidate, was rescued in Kendrapada. 
 
