KOLKATA: Bhutan has been celebrating its 400th year of formation since July, but with a tinge of sadness. But this week onwards, the festivities will reach a feverish pitch. The most-awaited spiritual figure, without whom the celebration was incomplete, has finally arrived in Thimpu. The city, which had housed him for over a century-and-a-half, has finally given him a send-off, though not for good. 

 Known as   to scholars across the world, this larger-than-life statue had almost become synonymous with the 233-year-old Asiatic Society ever since it was "gifted" at the end of the landmark   in 1864 by the British army. Though the Society treated the brass statue as its icon and one of its most precious antique items all these years, no one had researched on the etymology of the statue, beyond what was already there in the documents that were handed down by Captain Hidayat Ali, who had led the victorious British army. 
 
 The Buxa Fort was held by Bhutan till it fell to the British on December 7, 1864.
 
 A year ago, a letter from the Bhutan government to the external affairs ministry got everyone do a double take. It said Dhurm Rajah was none other than  , its founding father, who unified the small tribal entities to form  , 400 years ago! The letter clarified it was in 1616 that Namgyal came to Bhutan from Tibet and gave it a sense of national identity, laws, system of governance, the Dzong system and everything Bhutan was built upon. Naturally, he is revered to this date as a deity and while the Society treated it respectfully, it was much more than just a relic.
 
 Bhutan's official request to India to send back the statue put the Centre in a spot not only because valued at Rs 5 crore, it is part of the country's heritage. At the same time it was a matter of foreign relations with a country known to be India's friend for years.After much debate, a middle path was arrived at. The country won't have to give up the statue for good, but would be "loaned" to Bhutan for the celebrations "for a year". 
 
 
