CHENNAI: It is a textbook constitutional crisis in Tamil Nadu. Chief minister O Panneerselvam, whose resignation has been accepted by the   and told to continue as caretaker chief minister, now says he might take back his resignation letter if people wished so. His afterthought has pitted him against his own cabinet colleagues and party MLAs, whose confidence he no longer enjoys fully.

 His prospective successor, V K Sasikalaa, who has been elected new legislature party leader by the   MLAs, is yet to hand over the letter of support to the governor in person and formally stake her claim to be invited to firm the government. Her claim of having already “sent” the letter of support by MLAs would not hold water now, since many of the signatories were seen standing next to Panneerselvam a day later.
 
 Since the political drama is still unfolding, whatever letter both sides had sent to the Raj Bhavan might neither be the last nor latest document. This would entail the incharge governor to verify the claims and if necessary, demand proof to be demonstrated on the floor of the assembly. Significantly, Tamil Nadu assembly is yet to be prorogued by the governor, meaning technically it is in session.
 
 “The governor is constitutionally bound to convene the assembly and test the strength at the earliest, otherwise, it will lead to horse-trading,” said Justice D Hariparanthaman, former judge of Madras high court. He should fix a day at the earliest, and test it on the floor of the assembly, the ex-judge said.
 
 Senior advocate and former additional solicitor-general of India P Wilson said, “governor has to apply his mind, have subjective satisfaction and take a decision. For that, he may require reasonable time. Even in cases of insolvency and bankruptcy of MLAs, even if he receives intimation of competent courts passing orders, governor has to conduct his own inquiry.”
 
 Legal experts are divided over whether Panneerselvam’s resignation can be revoked. A senior jurist said law was very clear that once accepted, a resignation could not be taken back. Quoting service law jurisprudence, he said the defence of obtaining resignation letter by force is normally not entertained in the case of employees against employers. Even if it is done so, then Panneerselvam must have disclosed the coercion at the earliest opportunity, not two days later.
 
 However, another senior law officer told TOI that as per General Clauses Act, which is a general law, universally applicable to all situations, accepted resignations could be revoked in view of subsequent developments. “The governor can very well exercise his review jurisdiction,” he said.
 
 Tamil Nadu today is finding itself in a piquant situation, where all topmost three constitutional posts are tentatively poised. It has an in-charge governor in C Vidyasagar Rao, caretaker chief minister in Panneerselvam and its third highest constitutional authority, the chief justice, is also under transfer by elevation to the Supreme Court.
 
 The state’s grassroots democracy is in a shambles as the term of local bodies ended on October 24, 2016 and they are being administered by special officers.
 
 
