GUWAHATI:   weather has made a sudden comeback to the northeast with city residents too feeling the scorching   

 The mercury soared to 36.2 Celsius in the city on Saturday, while Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur too recorded a rise in temperature above normal. Coconut water, sugarcane juice and soft drinks brought relief to commuters as humidity too climbed up to 90 percent during the morning. 
 
 "Day temperature rose over Assam, Meghalaya and Manipur, but no major change was recorded over rest of the northeastern region during last 24 hours. Temperature was appreciably above normal over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Manipur, whereas it was normal over Meghalaya and Tripura during the same period," said an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official.
 
 However, he said it is heartening that rains are likely to provide respite in many parts of the region during the next couple of days. According to the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) weather forecast, heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places over Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura on Sunday.
 
 "After enjoying the pleasant days of Rongali Bihu, the   heat is really irksome. It's difficult weather for company executives like us who have to travel across the city for official purposes. Unless rains lash Guwahati, it is going to be difficult to cope with the summer," said Sudarshan Bora, who works for a telecom company here.
 
 In the state, the upper Assam town of Lakhimpur recorded the highest temperature on Saturday with a maximum of 36.8 Celsius, followed by Guwahati (36.2 Celsius) and Silchar (35.5 Celsius). 
 
 Itanagar and Imphal too felt the heat, with the mercury inching up to 36 and 32.3 Celsius in the two state capitals respectively on Saturday. 
 
 Sources in IMD said the rise in temperature is quite normal considering present weather conditions. 
 
 "During the month of May, the day temperature usually starts soaring to a level where residents start feeling uneasy. But, as soon as rains lash, the temperature cools down," said a Met official.
 
 
