SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh government has a debt burden of over Rs 45,000 crore, as opposition loves to point out and chief minister  's move to make   second capital of the hill state has given it all the ammunition it could ask for.

 The new capital would require huge infrastructure, besides shuttling of ministers, secretaries and officials between Shimla and Dharamshala would also require huge expenditure, BJP leaders have already said. They have already called the decision politically motivated.
 
 As of now, Dharamshala already has has a mini secretariat and secretariat besides Vidhan Sabha. In addition, a new building, coming up at a cost of Rs 5 crore, is slated to be completed by March.
 
 However, both the parties, government officials and Dharmashala residents are tightlipped as it is not clear exactly what shape will the proposal take. All eyes as of now are on the notification, which is still being readied.
 
 BJP has said that in its re port tabled in the state assembly in April 2016, CAG had stated that the state government was taking new loans to repay the old ones while the amount available for capital expenditure was decreasing each year.
 
 Opposition is claiming the state was number one with over 75 awards during their regime and now it has dropped to 22nd position with debts of over 45,384 crore. They said with farmers under stress, unemployment at its peak and failed governance with no vision,   government should have addressed such burning issues instead of making politically motivated announcements.
 
 Many feel that with assembly elections due this year, Virbhadra has played the “Kangra card“. They said Kangra district has 15 assembly seats out of total 68, while entire KangraChamba parliamentary constituency has total 20 seats.
 
 Announcement is being seen as an attempt to woo voters of Kangra, Chamba, Una and Hamirpur districts having total 30 assembly seats. In the past, Himachal   was shifted from Shimla to Dharamshala and now, more offices are likely to be shifted to Kangra and to ensure year-round activities.
 
 “Week-long winter session here costs around Rs 1.5 crore to Rs 2 crore to state exchequer, then how much it would cost to run the government from Dharamshala for two months,“ asks Shimla BJP MLA Suresh Bhardwaj. He said even Congress minister G S Bali is questioning his own government for failing to pay unemployment allowance after promising the same in the election manifesto.
 
 Urban development minister Sudhir Sharma said the decision to make Dharamshala second capital of the state would not put much burden on state exchequer as Dharamshala already has a mini secretariat and secretariat besides Vidhan Sabha. He said the decision would benefit the residents of Chamba, Kangra, Una, Hamirpur and Mandi districts. He said the construction of accommodation for ministers and staff would be completed by March this year.
 
 “The only expenditure would be on the travelling of government functionaries while rest of the infrastructure is already available here,“ he said.
 
  leader and Shimla deputy mayor Tikender Singh Panwar supported the decision. He said the second capital is need of the hour as in winters from December to February, no activity takes place in Shimla.
 
