PUNE: The   on Tuesday  , wanted since October 25 last year for an alleged fake   in Pune district collector’s office, after the Bombay high court questioned why she was not arrested so far despite being denied any protection by the courts. 

 Justice Mridula Bhatkar of the high court had rejected Anita Devanand Bhise’s anticipatory bail application on March 10. “The applicant-accused was not given any protection by the sessions court or by this court. Despite such circumstances, I am surprised why the applicant-accused was not arrested,” Justice Bhatkar said and directed that a copy of the court’s order be sent to Pune rural superintendent of police and Baramati sub-divisional police officer. 
 
 Baramati’s additional sessions judge R B Deshpande had rejected Bhise’s anticipatory bail plea on December 21, 2016. Prior to this, the sessions judge had also rejected her plea for an interim protection against arrest on December 6, 2016, observing that the suspect’s custodial interrogation was required considering the huge amount involved in the matter.”
 
 Sub-inspector S P Gaikwad, who is investigating the case, told TOI, “Bhise is being probed for duping 18 job aspirants of Rs 62 lakh by promising them government jobs and issuing bogus appointment letters bearing Pune collector’s round seal and signatures. Bhise was never in government service, but would move around in government offices to impress upon her victims that she was a revenue officer.” The alleged offence occurred between December 28, 2015 and June 6, 2016.
 
 Incidentally, the police got a clue about Bhise’s whereabouts from the documents she had furnished along with her pre-arrest bail plea to the high court’s registry. “She was reported untraceable ever since the matter came to light as she changed her original residence address at Tingrenagar in Pune. The HC officials shared with us the documents relating to the school of one of her two daughters. We pursued this clue and arrested Bhise from her present house at Dew Drops Society in Vishrantwadi,” said Gaikwad. “We will produce her before a sessions court in Baramati on Wednesday for her custodial remand.” he added. 
 
 Justice Bhatkar observed in her order, “This is a very serious offence. Under any circumstances, no anticipatory bail can be granted to the applicant-accused, who has cheated many people.” The court also dismissed Bhise’s argument that she was innocent and that, she had lodged a counter-complaint with the police stating that the alleged job racket was operated by the complainant and his associate. “The applicant-accused did not give her complaint immediately, but the complainant’s plaint is first in time,” the court observed.
 
