Mumbai: The   ( ) and   are likely to be the first off the block with their initial public offering (IPO), following the government’s decision to allow state-owned non-life insurers to list. However, both companies will list only in the next financial year as the process required for an  , is expected to take six to eight months.

 Speaking to TOI, GIC Re chairman  , said that the corporation has a net worth of Rs 40,000 crore, and assets close to Rs 80,000 crore. The public issue would be combination of offer for sale of shares by the government, and issue of fresh equity by GIC. Vaidyan added that it would take six to eight months to complete the process required for an IPO.
 
 “We will be using the capital to fund growth. The Indian insurance market is set to grow at a fast pace due to crop insurance. We will be also be able to grow our international business,” said Vaidyan.
 
 The Cabinet on Wednesday cleared the listing of five non-life insurance companies, which includes  ,  , and  , in addition to New India and GIC. The cabinet approval is for a 25% dilution with the government holding the residual 75%. While GIC is the largest reinsurance company in the region, New India Assurance is among the largest non-life companies with a book value of Rs 50,000 crore.
 
 “Although we have done the groundwork for an IPO it would take close to eight months for a listing,” said New India Assurance chairman G. Srinivasan. He said that New India would be issuing fresh equity as it will need capital to fund growth of around 20%, and growth could accelerate if the government decided to introduce some sort of universal health insurance. New India is among the companies with the largest international operations.
 
 “This move will unlock the potential of the insurance companies, and the general public at large would also get the opportunity to hold equity shares in these companies which have been in the general insurance business for a very long time. This announcement also leads to the belief that LIC India may soon be directed to get listed,” said Grant Thornton Advisory director Khushroo Panthaky. At present ICICI Prudential is the only life insurance company to be listed on the bourses. There is currently no listed non-life insurer in the country.
 
 
