Panaji: It could be a tiny fraction, but non-resident Goans from other parts of the country and even abroad have taken an effort to travel back home to cast their ballot on Saturday.  Many like Bernice Desouza, a Mumbai University student, travelled overnight to reach Vasco in time for the elections, despite having exams in two weeks. And she has got it right, when he says, “I want a sustainable Goa where its ethnicity and beauty are not destroyed in the name of tourism. My vote is therefore my weapon that will help choose a better leader.” Taleigao native Michelle Godinho, who has come down from Dubai to cast his vote also shares the same sentiments. “I expect good and honest governance which is why my vote matters,” she said. Many move out of Goa in search of better lives and employment like Bengaluru-based quality analyst Raisa Carvalho, who voted in Siolim. “ Instead of cribbing, if we just voted for the right leader, we can have a better state. It is this thought that urged me to come down especially to vote.” Whereas, Ravindra Mohite, who had moved to Pune with his family five years ago after retirement, believes in keeping up the values of democracy. He was among the first to queue up at a Merces polling booth. “I make it a point to cast my vote every election, be it municipal, state or parliamentary,” he said. A few others had come down to help the elders in the family and also made a good time of it. Adeline Araujo, who is 82 years old, lives at St Cruz, whereas her daughter Sandra Mathias and son-in-law Thomas are Mumbai residents. They made it a point to drive her to the polling booth on Saturday. “My mother is politically aware and understands the importance of her vote. As a citizen, she always ensures her vote doesn’t go waste ,” Mathias said. Portugal-based photography student Harsh Kamat couldn’t make his vote in Curtorim due to visa-related issues. Exasperated over his helplessness, he suggested, “It should be made available to vote from embassies or through an online portal. This way we can contribute too.”