HYDERABAD: What was supposed to be a smooth three-hour journey from  , with a quick stopover in Hyderabad, turned out to be an over 13-hour-long ordeal for a group of 20 passengers booked with  , on Thursday. 

  If three frustrating delays in Chennai were not enough, the travellers, on reaching the Shamshabad facility, were forced to remain confined inside a stationary Indigo bus for hours with no food and water. But this was not before being "unceremoniously" deplaned by the airline staffers.
 
 Speaking to TOI from the stationary bus, furious passengers said how the "harassment" began much before their scheduled time of boarding from Chennai. 
 
  "Around 9.15 am we received a message stating that our 11.15 am flight was rescheduled to depart at 1.40 pm. It was again delayed by an hour (to 2.40 pm) subsequently, before finally leaving at 3.55 pm," said   a musician, on her way to Goa for a gig.
 
 Turns out, while some passengers were told that the delay was a result of "bad weather at Kolkata airport" (cascading impact on all routes), others were cited a medical emergency, as a reason for the same.
 
 "As per the schedule, our flight that reached Hyderabad at around 5 pm (as opposed to its actual time of 12.20 pm) was supposed to halt here for half an hour before resuming its onward journey to Goa. But after waiting inside the aircraft for a while, we were asked to deplane immediately for no apparent reason. Our questions to the staff failed to yield any satisfactory answer," complained Siddharth P, another passenger. Accusing Indigo officials of ill-behaviour, he said how they were then "shoved into a bus" and made to wait endlessly.
 
 In the interim, passengers were offered no food or water. It was only around 8 pm when fuming passengers demanded a refund or an alternate arrangement, did Indigo finally issue them fresh boarding passes for an 11.25 pm flight to Goa - 6E 988. "My friend and I were supposed to jam there (in Goa) tonight. Now that plan looks bleak," Paul said, adding, "I am disgusted with the way Indigo handled the situation. We had to scream to even get a bottle of water."
 
 A group of travellers from Australia too said they were "deeply hurt" with the behaviour of Indigo officials. "We have come for a holiday to India after 40 years. And our experience so far has been very upsetting. It'll be over 24 hours of travel by the time we reach Goa now," said Raymond D'Silva who was stranded in the bus with a group of friends.
 
 When contacted an Indigo spokesperson said: "Yes there was some chaos because of bad weather in Kolkata, which led to multiple diversions. However, Indigo did everything to compensate the inconvenienced passengers by seating them in the lounge at Shamshabad airport, providing food and and assuring local transport in Goa - from the airport to their destinations."
 
