THANE: As many as 228   including disgruntled party workers pulled out of the election race in Thane on the last day of withdrawal of nominations for the   polls which will be held on Tuesday, February 21. With nominations of another 53 rejected due to various reasons, the battle for the 131 seats in the TMC House will now be between the remaining 805 candidates.

 Several independents, including those who had defected from the BJP, the Shiv Sena and others last week who had decided to fight solo recalled their respective nominations after cajoiling by party seniors on Tuesday. As many as 1183 nominations had been filed by aspirants for the TMC elections scheduled on February 21 of whom 228 pulled out of the poll race. 
 
 Among those who had withdrawn their respective nominations included sitting corporator Pooja Wagh, Namrata Bhosale, Ashiwni Jagtap who had contested as independents after the Shiv Sena denied a ticket to them. Rebel and former corporator Sangita Ghag, also known for her proximity to Eknath Shinde’s family ties also withdrew her nomination, but her husband Chandragupt who left the party after he was denied over Shinde’s sibling will fight on the NCP ticket.
 
 As many as 20 party workers and aspirants from the BJP who had rebelled and applied for a ticket independently withdrew their respective applications on Tuesday after intervention from party senior leaders. Former deputy mayor Subhash Kale, who had led a group of disgruntled party workers on Sunday after raising question on the selection process for candidates in the party also took back his nomination. BJP corporator Jaynath Purnekar also withdrew his nomination from the civic polls and decided to join his brother Chattrapati, who is contesting on a Congress ticket from panel 3B in Manpada. 
 
 Political observers say such nominations and subsequent withdrawals is nothing but a gimmick to either embarrass the party leadership or bargain for a better position in the next polls. Every candidate has aspirations but often the party has to take appropriate decisions that suits its strategies for the future. Such disappointments and subsequent resignations are often kneejerk reactions, say analysts from the city. 
 
 “Every party wants to ensure their leaders and workers to stay but compulsions like probability of winning a seat is paramount. The leadership often has to take appropriate decisions to fulfill the party strategies even if it means denying a ticket to a deserving candidate. Often, these situations end up giving a perfect bargaining opportunity for leaders with respect to their positon in the party.” said Mridul Nile, associate professor at the department of civics and politics at Mumbai University. 
 
 Meanwhile, another 55 nominations filed by 53 aspirants got rejected due to various reasons including tax defaults and questionable certificates filed along with affidavits, the battle for the Thane Municipal Corporation will now be between 805 candidates for the 131 seats. 
 
 
