GUWAHATI: Villages in Barpeta district have come up with an innovative idea to counter floods. By using plinth rising made of earth, at least 50 families reduced their losses by 80% this year. 

 Plinth rising is a high platform made of earth where villagers can build their houses. These platforms are measured and fixed at a height of at least three feet above the level the floodwater reached the previous year. 
 
 The people of Tapajuli Pather, Mazidbhita, 4 No Bhera and Balikuri among others have been affected by flood every year. And the loss was huge. But this time, they heaved a sigh of relief. "Almost every year, floods used to affect our paddy and livestock. But the plinth rising of my house has helped me to harvest the paddy and store fodder for livestock," the 65-year old farmer Biren Das told TOI. 
 
 Thanks to   for making this happen for the villagers. Jhai Foundation has selected 50 poor families and decided to experiment the method to get rid of flood. 
 
 "We conducted a baseline survey in the char villages to have a deeper understanding of the issues. I went to Bangladesh and studied various flood coping and adaptation programmes in the char areas of the country. We designed the model after going through a rigorous process and we are happy that it has been able to minimize the suffering of flood-affected char dwellers," said  , secretary of Jhai Foundation.
 
 Before they organized series of   (FGDs) with various stakeholders like char dwellers, teachers and Cluster Resource Centre Coordinators (CRCC), government officials and   (PRI) representatives, experts and academics and sought their suggestions. 
 
 After ground study and field work, they finally started the project in 2016. Rs 4 lakhs and 50,000 was spent to raise the plinth of 50 households at an average Rs 9,000 was spend against each household. 
 
 After the platform was made, the villagers were also distributed vegetable seeds and other saplings to grow. "These have grown up and we didn't have much problem this time during the flood," said Amirjan Khatun, a housewife. 
 
 The plinth rising of 50 families and community mobilization has inspired almost equal number of economically capable families to raise the plinth of their house by their own, said Kalam.
 
 
