KOLKATA | NEW DELHI: It is an Indian   all right for those promising the big chill.
 
  The early onset of the hottest season, evident in the mercury touching mid-forties across vast stretches of peninsular and central India in March, has come to the rescue of the manufacturers of  ,  , and   and   — goods long battling consumer fatigue and competitive intensity.
  
  The   has ensured the best-ever   of air-conditioners and refrigerators in March that witnessed a more than 20 per cent on-year sales growth for both products. Ice-cream sales demonstrated a similar growth pattern, while soft drink demand has seen a steady expansion—trends encouraging to support expansion plans.
 
  "Sales in the last ten days of March have been phenomenal due to the heat wave, and we posted our best-ever performance," said airconditioner maker Voltas’ president Pradeep Bakshi.
  
  "Dealers are building inventory, and we have increased production on predictions for a harsh summer. The industry is bullish about posting 20 per cent growth in the next quarter."
  
  Videocon chief operating officer CM Singh said several retailers have no AC stock, with some large retailers selling four times their usual volumes. "Even refrigerator sales are among the best and all companies are placing their bets on these two categories."
  
  The revival in demand follows the negative-to-flat growth in appliance sales since November, when the government’s demonetisation drive had hurt discretionary purchases. Sales growth for soft drinks has tapered off for five quarters amid a shift among urban consumers toward low-sugar beverages, and lower discretionary spending by rural buyers. Both Coca-Cola and PepsiCo have been reporting low single-digit sales for the past one year, and have been pushing alternate drinks such as juices and flavoured waters, besides introducing portion control with smaller packs.
  
  Beverage maker Coca-Cola said it is enhancing the range of its portfolio for the season with more products and pack sizes. “We have now launched a range of products in almost every category of relevance to the Indian consumer. This summer, we will make these products available widely, besides continuing to broaden the footprint of Coke Zero, Diet Coke and Sprite Zero,” a Coca-Cola spokesperson said.
  
  Ice-cream maker Mother Dairy reported a 20% increase in March sales. This year companies expect a record April-June quarter.
