NAGPUR: In good hands, the best of tools get better. Pianist and keyboard artist   is a classic example of this. Having learnt keyboard since childhood, he got his friends to record his music performance and began uploading them on   way back in 2007, when not many musical shows were happening in the city. 

 “I used to play popular Hindi film songs on piano and put them on YouTube just for the heck of it. By 2009, these videos began to get views and comments,” says 27-year-old Bagul.
 
 Today, Bagul has started online piano tutorials on his own website http://www.10magicalfingers.com, and has 43,000 subscribers from across the world and more than a crore views.
 
 Eager to share his success with the less privileged, Bagul has now extended support to less privileged people who are talented but don’t have the means to showcase it. “I am keeping some money aside from the subscription money, and will be holding weekend workshops at places like   or train individuals who approach me.”
 
 “I have made a training capsule for blind children. I plan to make albums of the really talented ones and upload them on my website,” he says. The mentoring will be extended to dancers, singers and instrumentalists also. “I will rope in singers and dancers to train them,” he says.
 
 Cashing in on the trend of YouTube tutorials, which gathered momentum in 2009, Bagul began learning software like Photoshop, Aftereffect and Pro Tools, when he was in Std X. “I could learn them very fast and thought I should make my own piano tutorials for those who wish to learn,” he says. The first musical tutorial was titled ‘Kal Ho Na Ho’. “It was a 20 minute video and got a lakh views. I was in Standard XII and even began to get projects to edit music videos since I had been editing my videos with software I had learnt on YouTube.”
 
 Taking the popularity of his videos to another level, Bagul formed a band named Jallosh in 2013 with two other singers from the city, Shrinidhi Ghatate and Puneet Kushwaha. “Puneet was the finalist in a Marathi reality show. We also asked flautist Arivind Upadhye to guide us, and under his guidance we uploaded our first music video, which went viral and got four million hits in a few months,” Bagul says.
 
 However, the real power of online platforms was realized through a recent collaboration with singer Shirley Setia, who is currently the top YouTube artist in India, and Darrel Mascarenhas, who is a sound engineer in Canada, says Bagul. “I recorded my piano in Nagpur and sent it to Shirley in New Zealand. She recorded her voice on my piano and sent it to Darrel in Canada, who did the mixing and mastering of the song. We shot our videos separately without meeting and the final output was uploaded on YouTube in the form of ‘Soch Na Sake and Sab Tera unplugged mash up cover’, he informs.
 
 Bagul adds that this video was uploaded on Setia’s website and it too went viral. “Shirley began to get offers to do shows and we performed with her at   in 2016.” Bagul now plans to do stage shows in the city and is also providing background score for a movie being made in Nagpur.
 
 
