MYSURU: Alice Gimblett, a soloist from London, is eagerly looking forward to perform at a charity show organised in the city on Saturday at the Open Air Theatre to raise funds for the refurbishment of the 110-year-old Holdsworth  , popularly known as  .

 Funds raised through the show will be donated to the hospital, which wants to build a new operation theatre complex that is equipped with an intensive care unit (ICU), post-operation wards and private wards. The refurbishment of the hospital is estimated to cost Rs 3 crore.
 
 Alice is in the city, along with more than three score musicians who are associated with the Toccata Musical Productions (TMP), United Kingdom, which has organised the event in Mysuru. The international troupe, with members from England, Northern Ireland and Kenya among other countries, will be joined by the Bengaluru Children’s Choir.
 
 Alice said, “I am delighted to be able to make a difference in people’s lives with music.” The artists will be performing popular numbers, including songs of Michael Jackson, Eagles,  , Abba and Queen among others.
 
 Founder of TMP, Dr Sunil Paulraj said that the organisation had just two members in the beginning. “Now, we have more than 100 members, and still growing. In the past decade, we have travelled to 18 countries including India, Sri Lanka, etc, trying to raise funds for various causes,” he added.
 
 Sunil, a paediatrician in Belfast, Northern Ireland, said that he formed the group in the wake of the tsunami that hit India and Sri Lanka in 2004. A passionate musician, Sunil added, “I had no idea it would grow into such a big family. We have a full team of professional musicians, who are willing to give their time for charitable causes.”
 
 Sunil said that this was the TMP’s fourth visit to India. “We performed in Kochi to raise funds for a blind school, in Chennai for the Little Sisters of The Poor and in Bengaluru, to raise money for an orphanage,” he said.
 
 “Holdsworth Memorial Hospital has been working for the betterment of society for the past 110 years, and we wanted to do something for the institution,” said Sunil, who has been designated Northern Ireland’s cultural ambassador. TMP has also been conferred the Golden Rule award by the United Nations, in acknowledgement of its service to humanity. 
 
 ‘I always feel like coming back to India’
 
 This is the fourth time I’m coming to India for a charity show. I have also travelled to Sri Lanka to perform with TMP as a vocalist. I always feel like coming back to India. I work as a teacher of a primary school in Belfast, but I also remain engaged in musical and theatre performances round the year.
 
 Fiona Keegan | Vocalist from Northern Ireland, TMP
 
 ‘We are grateful to all volunteers for coming forward to help us’
 
 We have plans to build a three-floor operation theatre complex, equipped with all the advanced facilities. Toccata Musical Productions, which has raised money for various causes, has come forward to help us. We would particularly like to thank Dr Sunil Paulraj, and all the other volunteers.
 
 Dr SC Karat | Director, Holdsworth Memorial Hospital
 
 About the hospital 
 
 Church of South India Holdsworth Memorial Hospital (HMH), popularly known as Mission Hospital was founded in 1906. It was built by Reverend George Sawday, to honour the memory of a missionary Mary Calvert Holdsworth, who wanted to ensure that the needy could avail of healthcare facilities.
 
 The then Maharaja of Mysore, Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar donated seven acres of land for the hospital which was named Karunalaya. For 45 years after its inception, the hospital was only for women and children. In 1951, the doors of the hospital opened for male patients.
 
 
