NAGPUR: The   and telecom major   have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for providing   to students and teachers for educational purpose.

 However, the move raised concerns as the company would be in a position to easily market its brand among over four lakh students and hundreds of university officials. 
 
 NU insiders admitted that the company, which made waves after its nationwide launch of 4G services free of cost, is indeed targeting the ‘next generation user’. “But, the university is not concerned about that as it is getting the service free,” they said.
 
  (BCUD) director   didn’t comment on the promotion issue, but said commercial issues have been addressed. “The university is already equipped with high speed Internet. This would be an option in case our lines break down or get congested. We have made it clear in the pact that university properties won’t be given for setting up Reliance towers. In case they seek permission to set up towers on our roof tops, then Reliance will be charged for the same.” 
 
 He added all teaching and non-teaching departments would be Wi-Fi-enabled within the next three months. Wi-Fi services will be available at all NU properties and also to all the affiliated colleges of the university, provided they give consent. “The service could start in colleges depending on when they give consent, but that would shouldn’t take more than three months,” he said. 
 
 Reliance Jio would be distributing free sim cards among students and teaching and non-teaching staff. Besides educational activities, NU’s administrative work too would get a boost because of high speed Internet.
 
 As per the pact, students will also be imparted short term online skill-based course for a limited period. This is likely to open job opportunities in technical, sales and consumer industry for the students. 
 
 The students would require principal’s approval to avail the free Wi-Fi and sim cards. Vice chancellor SP Kane stated in a press statement that students would get access to vast information and knowledge in educational and research areas through the facility.
 
 Reliance Jio vice president   stated that the group’s Teachers’ Day Jio Scheme is committed to fulfil Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of development in the educational sector.
 
 
