GURUGRAM: The verdict in the 2012   in due on Friday. With workers threatening to protest if the verdict goes against them, the entire district has been put on alert and the local administration has imposed   CrPC and deployed additional policemen at all sensitive spots. 

 In July 2012, Awanish Kumar Dev, the then general manager (human resources) at the Manesar plant, was burnt to death during a labour unrest. Both his arms and legs were broken and he could not escape when the building was later set on fire. His charred body could only be recognised through a tooth implant.
 
 In all, 94 managers and supervisors and nine policemen were injured in the attack. Around 145 workers were charged with rioting with weapons, murder, attempt to murder, unlawful assembly, assault, and trespass, among others. Eleven of them are still in jail, while the others are out on bail.
 
 Workers have circulated an appeal to all unions across Gurgaon to join their protest. “We’re apprehensive about a Pricol-type verdict (in which eight former employees of Pricol, the Manesar-based automotive ancillary manufacturer, were sentenced to double life imprisonment for murdering the company’s HR vice-president in 2009 following workers unrest),” read the appeal by provisional working committee, Maruti Suzuki Workers Union.
 
 “Fearing similar life sentences and long-term convictions of hundreds of workers, we’re preparing a call for unity of workers and pro-worker forces. We appeal to you to be present in the Gurgaon sessions court premises on the day of judgment. Stay united and take solidarity actions in support of justice for all Maruti Suzuki workers facing repression by the central and state government and the company,” the workers said in their appeal.
 
 The administration is anticipating various unions of IMT Manesar and Gurgaon may join the protest, leading to tension, breach of peace and danger to life and property. Therefore, gathering of five or more people, carrying of weapons, etc, has been prohibited in the district courts and in Maruti Suzuki’s plants. 
 
 “The SHO of the area’s police station is responsible for implementing this order. Violators could be prosecuted as per law. The orders will continue till March 15,” said Hardeep Singh, district magistrate, Gurgaon.
 
 Police, too, have taken steps to deal with the situation. Over 20 companies of reserved police forces have been deployed at sensitive spots, including the four Maruti Suzuki plants — two in IMT Manesar and one each in Kherki Daula and Gurgaon Sector 18 — as well as district courts, Nehru Park, NH-8 between Rajiv Chowk and Kherki Daula and Civil Hospital. The arrangements are being supervised by police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar.
 
 “Cops will be equipped with anti-riot equipment, including body protectors, helmets and cane shields. All DCPs and ACPs will be on surveillance and will report to the police commissioner,” said ACP Manish Sehgal.
 
 Meanwhile, in a display of solidarity, workers at all Maruti Suzuki factories boycotted the company lunch on Thursday and asked the management to secure the release of all workers. “Around 20,000 workers, including permanent, contract as well as cleaning staff in the four Maruti Suzuki plants and two associated companies — FMI and Bellsonica — did not eat the meal provided by the company,” said Kuldeep Singh, general secretary, Maruti Udyog Kamgaar Union.
 
 
