NEW DELHI: The International Court of Justice's ( ) decision to ask Pakistan to 
  could allow Pakistani PM Nawaz   to try and wrest some leverage from the army and prise open the door to diplomacy.

 The ICJ decision puts a lot of pressure on Pakistan, and more particularly its army, to not carry out the death sentence handed out to Jadhav on alleged charges of spying ,and weakens the military’s grip on events.
 
 Though no political party in Pakistan has spoken against the death sentence, it has been clear that Sharif and the government have largely been bystanders as the army held and tried the Indian. In fact, the Pakistan army’s aggression along the Line of Control and the death sentence handed to Jadhav by a secret military court with no access to the normal judicial procedure left Sharif with few options. But now, the ICJ order provides a reason to argue that the matter has assumed larger proportions, with Pakistan risking serious international opprobrium if it carries out the death sentence.
 
 Though the argument will not be made so plainly, sections in Pakistan could point out that the army’s heavy-handed ways have once again resulted in embarrassment and dented the country’s image.
 
  
  clearly indicates the priority PM   attaches to the case and Jadhav’s safety, and the Indian government is expected to make a strong case for a more binding interim order on Monday, when the court hears the case.
 
 Sharif has reportedly been keen to restart the political process with 
  decision gives him the room to take the initiative and reduce the military’s say on the Jadhav case.
 
 So far, the Pakistan army under Gen Qamar Bajwa has seemed determined to carry out the death sentence, given a string of statements about Jadhav’s alleged complicity in terrorist acts.
 
 Executing Jadhav — like the beheadings of Indian soldiers on May 1 — would serve to further shut the door on talks and up the hostility with India in keeping with the Pakistan army’s intent to stoke violence in J&K. Sharif can begin to explore the possibilities of a negotiated settlement to the Jadhav case, starting with ensuring the death sentence is not carried out and moving to providing consular access to India. This would undercut the Pakistan army’s agenda, which entails reckless confrontation with India over the ongoing violence in the Kashmir Valley.
 
 
 
 
