LUCKNOW: Hailing from India’s biggest political family which boasts of 22 members as elected representatives— including a chief minister, six MPs and his wife who is contesting assembly elections—he doesn’t even hold a primary membership of the  . Over the four months his family was in the middle of a bitter turf battle for the control over the party, he was busy following his passion—fitness, business, tending to helpless animals and, of course, fast cars. Meet  , SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s younger son.

 His occasional appearances in a political do are just for his wife Aparna, who is pitted against former state Congress chief and now BJP candidate Rita Bahuguna Joshi, in Lucknow Cantonment. But those too are few and far between. He was at the Collectorate when Aparna went to file her nomination, but will he accompany her to regular campaigns in the constituency? No. 
 
 “She expects me to accompany her. But we both are so busy in our respective spheres that it is difficult to match the timing,” he says.
 
 However, as Aparna is out in the field for nearly 12 hours every day, he is the one who plays the role of a doting parent to their four-year-old daughter Prathma. “She accompanies me wherever I go, even to my office,” he says, adding “it’s not a new phenomenon. Apart from her routine of studies and meal times, she always spends most of her time with me.” Prateek, who has completed his MBA from Leeds University, London, is into real estate business and has an office in Lucknow, besides running a state-of-the-art fitness centre in the city.
 
 The 28-year-old also devotes his time to an organisation that rescues abandoned and injured animals. “During the past four years, we have rescued over 10,000 animals. Right now, we are working in Bundelkhand’s Mahoba to rehabilitate drought-stricken livestock, especially cows,” he says, narrating how Netaji (Mulayam) had bought him two cows when he was just 12. “I would spend my entire time after school with them. I also had seven dogs.”
 
 Between September and mid-January, an internal power struggle had afflicted his joint family. That period, naturally, was a stressful one.
 
 “I don’t run away from problems. But I have this natural ability to never take stress,” he says. “When you overcome a problem, it expands your sphere of influence. It’s good to have a problem.”
 
 If he has been a disciple of success coach Anthony (Tony) Robbins, it’s showing in his responses. Prateek has been a regular to Robins’ seminars and gives full credit to him for being able to avoid the temptation of joining politics.
 
 “He (Robbins) teaches one to always do what one is passionate about. He has taught me to identify my passion and pursue it whole-heartedly,” Prateek says. And politics is not his passion by any means.
 
 “After completing studies, I directly went into business. Before the 2012 elections, there was an immense pressure on me to join the party but I did not budge. Then, before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, people from Azamgarh assembled at the party office and shouted slogans for my candidature. I made it clear to them and also to media that I didn’t have any political ambitions and I was keeping away from it intentionally,” he clarifies.
 
 But, given the family scenario, where every single member of GenNext is ready to don khadi, how long will he be able to resist?
 
 “For as long as I can,” he says, and adds, “So far, I have been able to do it successfully. In business, I have gone so far that it is not possible to leave it and do something else,” he says.
 
