PATNA: People have started opting for a healthier life. Various gyms have sprung up all over the city. But the residents are now looking beyond weight training that has been in vogue in the city for years.

 An advocate in Patna high court, Vipula Kanoria loves outdoor activities. “I do not like the claustrophobic ambience of usual gyms with weight training machines. I opted for   training, instead,” she says. The kettlebell studio where she practises provides a mix of CrossFit training as well.
 
 Nitish Khetan, a businessman, hates fixed routine and exercises of the regular gyms. To him, it becomes monotonous and boring and does not give the raw training experience he was looking for. “I have recently joined a fitness studio where I work with atlas balls or tire drag and pull exercises, which are difficult yet interesting. It is actually the sort of labour that I was looking for,” he adds. 
 
 Bloomy Ambasht (32) runs a corporate guesthouse. After a busy day, all she wants to do is relax. So, she has opted for yoga. She says, “Yoga is the answer to all fitness problems. It soothes and energizes you. A toned body is an added advantage. Yoga has also given me spiritual peace. Unlike weight training, I can just do yoga for 3 to 4 days in a week and get long-lasting results.” The mother of two, she hates training in a gym and says it drains her and she feels tired after a rigorous workout.
 
 Vikas Srivastava is another yoga enthusiast. “I had previously joined a gym, but the excessive sweating caused skin infections. So, I opted for yoga which is hygienic and I feel refreshed. Even if I leave yoga for some time, it doesn’t cause any abnormal weight gain as I experienced after leaving gym,” says Srivastava.
 
 The product head of a multinational telecommunications company, Himani Dubey is also spending time on unconventional workout after office hours. “I work out after office hours. I love aerobics. It keeps me energized. I enjoy the fluidity of the movements. I have unbound stamina now,” says the mother of one. 
 
 “Most of the people who visit our studio are looking for something other than the monotonous regime offered by gyms. As told to us by some of our visitors, a major problem with most of the city gyms is the lack of professional trainers, which sometimes results in injury or nagging pain,” said Divya Kothari, owner of a kettlebell studio while citing reasons why more people are opting for unconventional training.
 
 
