CHANDIGARH: While incumbent Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) suffered a huge debacle in entire Punjab, it also failed miserably in the two districts in Malwa region where incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015 had become the epicenter of people’s protest. The Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) shared the spoils in Faridkot and Moga districts as Akalis drew a blank.

 The Congress won four out of seven seats in both districts and AAP took the remaining three. AAP won two out of three assembly constituencies in Faridkot district and Congress took the third seat. AAP’s Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Baldev Singh got elected from Kotkapura and Jaito, respectively. Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon of the Congress won from Faridkot assembly segment.
 
 In neighbouring Moga district, Congress candidates won from three out of four constituencies and AAP took the fourth. Harjot Kamal Singh, Darshan Singh Brar and Sukhjit Singh were elected from Moga, Bagha Purana and Dharamkot assembly seats, while AAP’s Manjit Singh won from Nihal Singh Wala. Akali heavyweight and sitting minister Tota Singh lost from Dharamkot while son Barjinder Singh alias Makhan Brar finished third in Moga.
 
 Further, sitting MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki of the Congress had resigned from Khadoor Sahib constituency of Tarn Taran district in protest against the sacrilege incidents in his area on October 18, 2015. He did not contest the byelection later and SAD’s Ravinder Singh Brahmpura was elected from there. However, Sikki has made a strong comeback this time by getting elected from Khadoor Sahib, defeating Akali candidate Brahmpura by over 17,000 votes.
 
 
 
 
 Desecration of the Sikhs’ holy book was first reported from Burj Jawhar Singh Wala village in Faridkot on June 1, 2015, and later torn pages of Guru Granth Sahib were also found lying outside the gurdwara in Bargari village on October 12, 2015. Police inaction in both the incidents led to huge protests in both Faridkot and Moga districts. During one such agitation in Behbal Kalan village of Faridkot on October 14, 2015, police opened fire on the protesters that resulted in the death of two Sikhs — Krishan Bhagwan Singh and Gurjit Singh.
 
 
