MYSURU: After nearly 21 years, the   broad gauge line may be operational from mid-March 2017. The project for the 172-km stretch between   and   was sanctioned in 1996 when HD   was the Prime Minister. 

 In 1996, the project cost was Rs 295 crore but now due to delay for various reasons, including land allotment and sanction of money, it costs Rs 1,289.92 crore. Once operational, the travel distance from Bengaluru to   will be reduced by 50km via Arsikere and about 87km via Mysuru. The distance between Bengaluru and Hassan is 259km via Mysuru and 213km via Arsikere. 
 
 The new line will connect Bengaluru (starting point Chikkabanavar) with Hassan via Nelamangala, Kunigal, Yediyur and Shravanabelagola. The track is almost parallel to National Highway 48 (Bengaluru and Mangaluru). The Hassan-Shravanabelagola line, a 44km stretch, was opened in 2006, but the project didn’t proceed until 2010 due to shortage of funds and land. The project gained momentum in 2010 when the state government agreed to bear half the project cost and by then, railways had spent Rs 335 crore.
 
 It will also reduce the travel time between Bengaluru and Mangaluru. The 368-km route from Bengaluru will be 10.5 hour till Mangaluru and will help the existing route via Mysuru and Hassan which takes nearly 12 hours and Arsikere and Hassan take 11.15hours. The new line will also help devotees going to Shravanabelagola. 
 
 It was a long-pending demand of the Jain community.
 
 The Commissioner for Railway Safety (CRS) conducted statutory inspection of the section from Nelamangala to Shravanabelagola. The section from Bengaluru and Nelamangala on one end and Hassan and Shravanabelagola on the other has already been commissioned for passenger traffic. The stretch from Nelamangala to Shravanabelagola will be operational after CRS authorization. 
 
 Sanjiv Agarwal, divisional railway manager, Bengaluru Division, South Western Railway, said, “For most projects, funding and land are the two bottlenecks. There was no proper assured funding for this project and there were some land issues which were later resolved. Now, we’re awaiting authorization from the Commissioner of Railway Safety. We require more staff, at least 100 to start with.” 
 
 
