Tired of thinking up new outfits for Holi? Don’t end up looking bland and uninspiring. White on white, florals and tees-and-shorts combos are so yesteryear. This year, we bring you the latest trends, so you can infuse them right into your   file. Why spend a lot of money to look like everyone else at Holi bashes? Take our cue and swap the same old style for bright hues, happy prints and dressy textures. Read on...
 
  The stylish take on the otherwise casual shirt-dress is not for holidays anymore. It’s taken a giant, fashionable leap and it’s time for you to be a game-changer. Choose one in a bright blue colour that’s just perfect for Holi, like our model here. Go off shoulder because it’s time to embrace the trend — literally in full-bloom. Mix this sexy-without-being-obvious trend with ripped jeggings and tasselled flats for a casual yet chic look. Model Diti gets the look right!
  
  This Holi, the combination to go for is grey with a hint of festive red — and there’s nothing drab or boring about it. Have fun in monochrome breezy kaftans and give your look the streetstyle touch it needs. Let your hair loose in beachy waves and you will be the talk of the party.
  
  Okay, we get it. White tees and blue shorts have been worn to death. But then,   is nothing if not confortable and fun. Pair your good old ripped shorts with a boxy white shirt. The edge? Tied up gladiator sandals that run up close to your knees, taking the look from drab to fab!
  
  Watercolour prints are as Holi as it can get. If it’s hard for you to pull off an all-white ensemble, opt for a twist in the colour palette and go ahead with grey. Our model Saachi slips into a comfortable grey tee paired with blue shorts. The pair of white sneakers adds a youthful freshness to the look.
  
  Holi is as much about looking like a leprechaun as also about sizzling at the afterparty. And at a party, nothing stands out like an impactful shift dress. A statement dress is a staple in every girl’s wardrobe. Swap your bodycons for a silk, busy-printed dress and slay!
  
