 NAGPUR: The cops have found a way around the problem of gangs being prosecuted under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA) getting respite from the courts over procedural norms or  . The city police now plan to enforce section 55 of  , 1951, to extern or ‘tadipaar’ entire gangs from city limits.
 
 The   is generally associated with an individual under section 56 of Maharashtra Police Act, 1951. However, the related section 55 will now be increasingly used against gangs too, to send a gangster and his aides out of city limits for up to two years at a time. The cops have realized that the basic policing concept enshrined in the law book could tackle gangsters and stem their activities.
 
 Generally, MCOCA is projected as an effective tool to reign in gangs and keep them behind bars for substantial period. However, an effective case under MCOCA provisions requires proving that the crimes were for pecuniary gains, two charge sheets must have been filed against at least two members in the last one decade, and the commission of any offence by couple of them together in the last few years. This often created hurdle for the cops.
 
 The courts too would have to drops charges of MCOCA against gangs if they reached a conclusion that MCOCA was not appropriately invoked, which has seen many gangsters walking out of jail without much hiccups even after being booked under the stringent provisions.
 
 Addl CP (in-charge), crime, Ranjan Kumar Sharma said the act of 1951 empowers a superintendent of police in the district, and his equivalent rank of zonal DCP in city, to invoke section 55 to extern an entire gang. “It is an effective tool against an entire   and not a single one. The effective enforcement of the   has been already discussed in the senior officers’ meeting,” he said.
 
 Zonal DCP Sambhaji Kadam, Zone-III, said he has already zeroed down upon several gangs in his jurisdiction comprising Pachpaoli, Tehsil, Shanti Nagar, Lakadganj, Ganeshpeth and Kotwali. “Invoking section 55 is easier as a procedure than MCOCA. In MCOCA, one has to take approval of the Addl CP for initiating investigation, and then Addl DG to submit charge sheet after complying with many requirements. In invoking section 55, no prior permissions are required from any level of officers and the grounds are also simpler to apply,” said Kadam. He also said that police stations have been given specific targets to work on gangs and send their proposals for further processing.
 
 Kadam said gangs who have got relief from the judiciary in MCOCA cases would be targeted on priority basis, as there is already documentations done against them and records assimilated. This would make it easier to invoke the group externment provision against them. “Unlike in MCOCA, it would not be easy to quash externments, since the appeal has to go through first divisional commissioner and then home department followed by high court and Supreme Court,” he said.
 
 
