HYDERABAD: Although seats are specially earmarked for   in the   (TSRTC) buses, the rule is observed more in violation. Probably for the first time, a district consumer forum here has directed the state-owned corporation to pay Rs 10, 000 as compensation to a 64-year-old man who was forced to stand while travelling in a bus. The forum observed that `it as a 'negligence' and 'deficiency in service'.

 Ch Nagender, a senior citizen, boarded an   bus on September 23, 2015, from   to   and paid Rs 20 for the ticket. He contended before the forum that he could not get a seat allotted for senior citizens in spite of the existence of a circular issued by the authorities in 2013.
 
 He said that he had also sent a legal notice on September 26, 2015, for which he received a reply a few days later from the state corporation saying that the circular had been reissued to all the authorities concerned di recting them to see that senior citizens get their allotted seats in buses.
 
 “Within a month, I was put in same situation and the conductor did not even bother to implement the circular issued by his higher authorities. I felt that the conductor needs to be counseled properly and that the corporation is liable to pay a compensation for the above said negligence,“ said Nagender before the forum adding that he had health issues related to kidney and back.
 
 In their written version, the opposite parties No 1& 2 (regional and depot manager of Medak district) said that RTC was a public utility service and that Nagender should have availed the `courtesy service' provided by them by boarding another bus. “The question of deficiency of service did not arise. The bus was full of passengers and, on the other hand, even other senior citizens were standing,“ they said and requested the forum to dismiss the case.
 
 The bench said, “This complaint must be taken as a representation from all such regularly aggrieved persons in the society but not as a single complaint. Hence from this angle, it is viewed that there is negligence and deficiency in service on the part of the transport corporation."
 
