NEW DELHI: It took a late-night   led by deputy chief Manish   to expose the unsavoury happenings in the capital’s municipal schools. After entering the school in Block 19 of Kalyanpuri on Thursday night, Sisodia was able to confirm reports that the school guard had let out a few rooms for the use of some people.

 Chokhe Lal, a retired government servant who lives opposite the school, told TOI that he regularly conversed with the guard, Subhash, and had once asked him about the two men who seemed to be living in the school. “I used to see them coming out of the school early in the morning and returning in the evening every day for the past few months. I asked Subhash about it and told him that this was illegal, but he assured me that they were his relatives there to help him with the school’s security at night.”
 
 When the raid took place, Subhash was nowhere to be seen. Sisodia said the guard had to be summoned to the school on phone. When the gates were unlocked, the raiding team found the desks and chairs had made way for a gas cylinders, cooking implements and vegetables. “The cupboards in the classrooms meant for children’s notebooks contained spices and other ingredients. This is a serious security concern,” said Sisodia.
 
 The two men residing in the school were taken into custody. The state chief secretary met the school administration and action has been initiated against the school guard too. The East Delhi Municipal   subsequently transferred the principal of the school, while a show-cause notice has been served to the civic body’s deputy director for education and the school inspector.
 
 “How is it possible that nobody would know of such a thing as this?” asked Sisodia, implying a possible complicity of the school administration in the racket. He has asked the chief secretary, along with the EDMC commissioner, to probe the matter. “I know there are several other schools where this happens and I have asked for a report,” the minister said.
 
 The school had earlier been raided by the Kalyanpuri councillor, who is also a member of the Aam Aadmi Party. The local residents pleaded they were not acquainted with the pair who turned the classrooms into living quarters after school hours. “We variously heard that they were brothers, that they were called ‘Mishra’ and they used to work in the market or pulled rickshaws,” said Sandeep, who owns a cyber café in the vicinity of the school.
 
