KOLKATA: Three members of a family from Bangladesh suffering from a life threatening muscular dystrophy disease that forced their parents to seek for mercy killing, today reached Mumbai on an Air India flight from Kolkata where they would undergo treatment at a private stem cell therapy institute for the next two weeks.

 Abdus, Rahinul and Shorab Hossain aged 24, 14 and 8 were diagnosed with  , a severe hereditary disorder where body muscles starts weakening from the age of three and by the age of 12, a person is completely bed-ridden, often dying by the time he reaches adulthood. Among the three Abdus and Rahinul cannot move by their own and confined to their beds. Shorab can still move by himself to the washroom but his condition is worsening.
 
 Tofazzal Hossain, a fruit vendor from Meherpur in Bangladesh and father to Abdus and Rahinul and the grandfather of Shorab had written to the local district administration earlier this year pleading for them to either help care for his loved ones or “allow them to be put to death with medicine”.
 
 The plight of the family was reported in different newspapers that caught attention of Meditourz - a Mumbai-based organization specializing in such diseases in collaboration with NeuroGen- a Brain & Spine Institute based at Navi Mumbai who came forward to help in their treatment free of cost.
 
 “We have treated several such patients in the last few years. Many of them came to us bedridden and immobile but now they can walk slowly. The disease is incurable but we treat in such a manner that the muscles get back the lost strength and make the living comfortable and lengthier for a patient,” said Nandini Gokulchandran, head of medical services at the institute.
 
 The trio along with three relatives came to Kolkata by road on Sunday and took an Air India evening flight to Mumbai. The air fare was waived by Air India. The airlines also deputed dedicated personnel to ensure hassle free and smooth boarding and deboarding, on wheelchairs and ambulances.
 
