LUCKNOW: The new   government in UP appears to be in a hurry to bring   on the centrestage of its  .

 While the out-of-court settlement between disputing parties for the construction of   has been initiated on the intervention of the  , the BJP government is soon to come up with a series of developmental projects, including a digital production on the life and times of Lord Rama. The central government has also almost finalized a Ram museum on a sprawling 25 acre of land.
 
 When chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi, addressing a function during his visit to the Gorakhdhaam Peeth on March 26, had rent the air with his Jai Shri Ram slogan, the stage had been set for Ayodhya, as not only the CM, but saints and seers from Ayodhya and the functionaries of the Gorakhdham Peeth had also demanded immediate construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya and government’s focus on the birthplace of Lord Rama. 
 
 In fact, the department of tourism had submitted proposals for the same projects to the previous government, but the projects were dropped by the Samajwadi Party, wary of losing Muslim vote bank.
 
 In the first project costing Rs 133 crore, the major component is digital production of ‘Living Experience of Lord Rama’ at Rs 90 crore, while the rest would be renovation of Naya Ghat, Ram Ki Paidi, Hanuman Ghari, Guptar Ghat, Janki Ghat and Harish Chandra Ghat.
 
 Principal secretary (tourism), Navneet Sehgal told ToI that the project has been in principle cleared by the Centre. He said that his officers had held detailed discussions with the central government, which has okayed the project.
 
 Sehgal said he had sought time from the CM for making a presentation on the project. Once approved, the ‘Living Experience of Lord Rama’, depicting the entire journey including his struggle in the 14-year long exile would be produced by the world’s best companies, he said. 
 
 The second project of Rs 30.52 crore would take care of a tourist facility centre, last mile connectivity, Panchkoshi Parikrama, upgrading of Ayodhya Urban Haat under the Centre’s PRASAD scheme for beautification of pilgrimages. 
 
 
