Ask this to someone: List five films based on travel. You’ll be flooded with names of movies that make a memorable celluloid treat for their romantic journeys, just as much as they are for endearing scripts and characters. But cut to movies that focus more on the tour guide instead, and you’ll probably have to rack your brains to come up with a few! Imtiaz Ali’s upcoming romantic-comedy film Jab Harry Met Sejal, starring Shah Rukh Khan and Anushka Sharma, puts the spotlight back on the travel guru in Indian cinema. Intrigued by the buzz around the film, we have strung together a few old and new movies, in which the tour guide takes the centre 
stage…
 
 
 
 The character of Raju Guide, essayed by Dev Anand, is counted as a memorable one in the history of  . Inspired by RK Narayan’s novel The Guide, the movie is directed by Vijay Anand. A vital part of the film revolves around Raju giving a tour of the Chittorgarh Fort in Rajasthan to Rosie, played by  .
 
  
  
 
 
 Another of Govinda’s comic delights and quirky dance numbers, this Deepak Sareen-directed film portrays the actor as a happy-go-lucky tour guide, with   playing the pretty tourist. The film also stars Jackie Shroff and Namrata Shirodkar, and was mostly shot in Mauritius, Austria and Bengaluru.
 
 
 
 A tourist guide in New Delhi,   falls in love with a blind girl, essayed by Kajol, who comes to the city from Kashmir. The film is directed by Kunal Kohli and also has Tabu, Rishi Kapoor and Lillete Dubey in the cast. The film was partly shot at the Tatra Mountains in Poland, apart from various historical sites in the Indian capital.
 
 
 
 Mostly remembered for its catchy dialogues and songs, this Aamir Khan and Karisma Kapoor starrer romance-drama film was quite a heart-winner in the ’90s. Directed by Dharmesh Darshan, Aamir plays the role of a taxi-driver and tourist guide at a hill-station town named Palankhet, in Himachal Pradesh, where Karisma goes for a vacation.
 
 
 
 The film is mostly shot in the vibrant locales of Jaipur, Rajasthan, where   earns his living as a tour guide. The Maneesh Sharma-directorial also features Parineeti Chopra and Vaani Kapoor. The film’s music was quite a hit, while the title track was picturized at the scenic Mehrangarh Fort in Jodhpur.
 
 
 
  2002 (Kannada) – starring Upendra and Sakshi Shivanand
 
  1990 (Telugu) – starring Chiranjeevi and Sridevi
  
  1991 (Malayalam) – starring Mohanlal and Jagathy Sreekumar
 
