LUCKNOW: Savdhani hati, durghatna ghati...' At  , people enter at their own risk. Covering the busiest  ,  ,  ,  , government offices and scores of important establishments fall under Lucknow Central.

 With electoral population of about 3.4 lakh, issues plaguing the dense assembly constituency are somewhat unique. “Miscreants indulging in fraudulent activities roam the busy market areas and come up with novel tricks to dupe people,“ said Tilaknagar, Aishbagh resident Anuj Srivastava, who is supporting actively a political candidate who promised to install CCTV cameras in the local market. According to police, highest number of tricking and duping cases are reported from Hazratganj, Hussainganj, Aminabad and Naka Hindola, where population is relatively dense.
 
 “Recently, a person stopped me in Vijaynagar and said oil was leaking from my car so I got down to check and by that time my laptop bag had been stolen,“ said Sankalp Rastogi, who owns a store in Naka Hindola. “Such incidents have been recurring on that stretch,“ said Rastogi, member of the traders association in Naka, adding, “If crime takes place in the same place repeatedly , it shows there is a gang at work and that local politicians are not doing anything to safeguard us.“
 
 Since most banks and ATM booths are located in this part of the district, tricksters target gullible persons. Advocate Rohit Kant said the MLA should mount pressure on police to control crime.
 
 The problem is not limited to old localities and incidents of locals being tricked by bikeborne miscreants have been reported from Viram Khand, Vishal Khand, Vipul Khand and Nehru Enclave areas of Gomtinagar and from Jopling road. “Posing as policemen in plain clothes, bike-borne miscreants stop and loot women in isolated colonies,“ said Vikas Khand resident, Daksh Sharma.
 
 Tricking women by telling them that roaming with jewellery was unsafe, miscreants coax them into handing over the gold items to them. They offer their handkerchief to wrap the jewellery and replace it with artificial ornaments and hand them back.
 
 The other issues voters raise their voice against is traffic. Since roads are encroached, public has to struggle through chaotic traffic conditions while crossing Rana Pratap Marg, Burlington, GPO, Parivartan Chowk, high court and collectorate complexes in Kaiserbagh.
 
 “Every other day , minor accidents result in major brawls in Hazratganj,“ said Prafulla Pandey , owner of a famous eating joint near GPO crossing.
 
