VADODARA: The   Pollution Control Board (GPCB) finally seems to have detected the source of gas stench that gripped the city thrice in just 15 days.

 The pollution watchdog has held Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (ICO) Gujarat Refinery at Koyali responsible for the problem and issued notices asking it to improve systems in the next 15 days.
 
  GR management on the other hand said that they will take necessary steps but it is not right to blame them solely at this stage. 
 
 “The gas stench was caused by some fault in the flare stack of the refinery. The team of GPCB and disaster management, which investigated the case, will visit the refinery again after 15 days to check if they have taken corrective steps,” said Lochan Sehra, district collector. 
 
 When contacted, GR executive director, Sudhir Kumar said, “We will follow all the directions given by the GPCB and plug the system wherever it is required. We have been cooperating with the investigating team.” 
 
 Interestingly, GR management had said on Wednesday that the refinery is not responsible for the stench. 
 
 Kumar, however, added that it is not right to blame the refinery alone at this stage.
 
  “The GPCB team that visited our premises in last week of March had submitted a report to district collector. They had a doubt that the stench was emanating from GR. A team of GPCB and   professors again visited our premises a couple of days ago and made another report that is yet to be submitted to the collector,” Kumar told TOI. 
 
 “I am not saying that GR is not responsible but it is too early to blame us. I will meeting the GPCB chairman soon to present our point of view,” Kumar said. The GPCB team had earlier visited several industries including GR, Alembic Ltd, Transpek Silox and Nandesari GIDC to take air samples and the initial reports had pointed fingers towards GR following which another special committee was formed. This committee included GPCB’s regional officer CA Shah and vigilance officer from Vadodara, Irfan Kagzi, deputy engineer from   and two external experts - Dr P A Joshi from Dharmsinh Desai University and J N Joshi, retired professor of environmental engineering from LD College of Engineering.
 
