SURAT: The small and medium diamantaires may experience   in the secondary market following the largescale hoarding of rough diamond by the importers in Surat and Mumbai. 

 As per the latest figures published by the Gems and   (GJEPC), import of rough diamonds rose to $15.46 billion, an increase of 22.17 per cent from April-16 to February-17 as compared to $ 12.66 billion a year earlier. 
 
 In volume terms, imports rose by 10.63 per cent from to 136.5 million carats in April ’16- February ’17 to 123.4 million carats in the same period this year.
 
 Market sources said the increase in rough diamond import is attributed to the slashing of prices by the diamond mining companies and the Indian diamond companies going in for huge purchases of raw material post-demonetization. 
 
 The diamantaires, especially small and medium ones, purchasing raw material from the secondary markets in Surat and Mumbai, fear that the increase in rough diamond import is likely to trigger higher prices in the local market in the coming days. The prices, according to the traders, are likely to increase by 5-7 per cent in the local market. 
 
 Surat is the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre with around 90 per cent of the diamond mined across the world are cut and polished. The small and medium diamantaires are dependent on the rough diamond traders in the markets at   and   for the regular supply of raw material.
 
 A small diamond unit owner,  , said, “The big companies can afford to buy rough diamonds in huge quantity as they have been financed by the banks. We have to purchase rough diamonds in cash post-demonetization. Since huge quantity of rough diamonds have been imported, it is likely that the prices will increase in the local market.”
 
 Diamond analyst   said, “The rough diamond mining companies, this year had slashed prices in various categories, especially in the small sizes, to suit the Indian buyers post-demonetization. However, many importers saw this as an opportunity to hoard on the diamonds. Now, they will sell the diamonds at higher rates in the local markets.”
 
