Do you notice dark spots? Uneven skin tone? This may indicate signs of skin pigmentation. Our skin colour is defined by pigment and with sun exposure, the UVA rays stimulate the production of melanin. This melanin is what is creating the brown (darker) patches on your skin. These patches, spots can show up after 10 to 20 years of sun damage. So, if you were in Goa in your teenage days, your skin might be showing the sun damage signs now. These brown patches can result on upper lip, eye area and the forehead.
 
 Dr Jamuna Pai, Cosmetic Physician, SkinLab explains the signs of pigmentation and the solutions for a brighter skin
  
 
  
 Since pigmentation patches usually come up on the face-cheeks, nose, forehead, one can watch out for the signs in these areas. Any form of discoloration, uneven appearance of skin could be the beginning of a pigmented patch in that area. If you spot such signs of pigmentation, you should consult a dermatologist.
  
 
 
  
 Pigmentation, unfortunately cannot be completely undone, but this skin issue can be kept in check. It requires a proper skin care regime. Always keep these things in mind:
  
 
 
 
 
  
 You can try making a skin-brightening mask at home:
 For anti-pigmentation DIY mask, you need half lemon slice and half medium sized potato. Now grate the half potato and squeeze out the juice. Next, mix it with lemon juice. As lemon is rich in citric acid, it helps to bleach the skin. While, potatoes contain catecholase enzyme, which brightens the skin.
 
 
 
  
 A lot of products claim to treat pigmentation. Look for topical agents like berry extracts, arbutin, Vitamin C and glycolic acid, kojic acid, arbutin and azelaic acid. 
 These ingredients are good to use, but the right concentration can give you the best results. Also, using night creams can heal skin overnight. For best guidance, always consult a dermatologist, so that you don’t harm your skin with the wrong product and use. 
  
 
 
  
 For any skin condition, it is best to start the treatment as early as possible. So is the case for pigmentation.
 Besides the topical agents suggested, exfoliation, some laser treatments and skin peels of varying strengths can help to lighten pigmentation. These below treatments can help:
 
 
 Melanin pigment (which is concentrated in the pigmented area) absorbs the laser light. Heat is generated and the darker cells that are being targeted are destroyed, which reduces pigmentation. This may depend on the depth of melanin and colour of the lesion. 
 
 
 It is one of the most efficient and fastest ways to reduce pigmentation. This peel influences the melanogenesis (pigment producing) process. It contains: Kojic Acid, Phytic Acid, Ascorbic Acid, Arbutine, Titanium Dioxide and Retinyl Palmitate. This can block the formations of melanin (pigment) by inhibiting the tryosinase – an essential enzyme involved in the formation of pigment.
 
 (Lede image: Shutterstock)
 
