BENGALURU: Five years after the second phase of Namma Metro was approved by the state government and Centre, work on the 15.5km Byappanahalli-Whitefield corridor is set to begin by the second quarter of the year.

 The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. ( ) has already acquired land worth Rs 900 crore for the corridor and floated tenders for construction of six stations from Jyothipura to Visvesvaraya Industrial Area.
 
 “The Byappanahalli-Whitefield Metro corridor will be constructed in two sections — one from Byappanahalli side and the other from the ITPL end — to complete the corridor faster. The first section of six stations will cost Rs 670.72 crore,” said an official.
 
 The company, however, is yet to acquire a key land parcel between Tin Factory and Lowry Group of Institutions, where an interchange for   Metro and Outer Ring Road Metro, already been finalized under Phase 2, will come up. It has to acquire 20,000 square metres of land at Lowry. “It will take another two to three months to acquire land for the 1km stretch and finalize tenders for construction of the viaduct and stations,” the official said.
 
 BMRCL has faced criticism for not giving priority to the Whitefield corridor despite hundreds of techies going there for work every day.
 
 Residents afraid Metro work may hit traffic in Whitefield
 
 Residents, office goers and industry stakeholders are apprehensive about Metro work throwing traffic in Bengaluru’s IT hub, the bustling Whitefield, out of gear.
 
 BMRCL, as per the contract, plans to widen the roads along the corridor by 30 metres. But the residents want a suburban rail until the Metro corridor becomes operational. R N Hegde, former president of Whitefield Area Commerce and Industries Association (WACIA) said, “We are waiting to meet the Metro authorities to discuss how they will divert traffic, create alternate roads and widen the roads so that commuters are not affected.”
 
 Explaining how employees coming late reduce man hours at work and affect productivity in a longer run, Hegde said, “Staggered timings may work for company employees but not for industrial labourers.”
 
 Whitefield Rising, together with WACIA, has been demanding extension of the suburban rail network, which is expected to reduce the traffic mess in the area. “The civic agencies, whether BMRCL or BBMP, will not just have to widen roads but also complete a lot of pending projects to ease commuting to Whitefield. Suburban railway is a great alternative but the government does not seem to be keen on that. There are couple of trains from Byappanahalli to Whitefield in the morning peak hours but that is not enough. Commuting is a problem not only for those living in Whitefield but also for the thousands who come to work here every day,” said Zibi Jamal, member, Whitefield Rising.
 
 Whitefield has a number of entry and exit points — like the Alpine Eco road from Doddenakundi on ORR where BDA is constructing a multi-directional flyover — but aren’t of much benefit to commuters. “We have learnt that work on the flyover has slowed down. The junction is already a choke point. The road is a short-cut used by those coming from south Bengaluru, but two more tech-enclaves are coming up along this road. The chaos will only increase if Old Airport Road to Mahadevapura is hit by Metro work,” Zibi said.
 
 Whitefield residents, on the other hand, are also worried about the BBMP’s road widening work, underway in patches. “It needs coordination between the two civic agencies, project implementation authorities, residents and industries,” Zibi added.
 
 
