KOLKATA: The three-member panel mandated to fix blame for the death of   at   has found three doctors guilty of medical negligence, sources privy to the development said. The panel members visited   on Friday afternoon and held a two-hour meeting with health officials. Chief minister  , however, said the panel was yet to submit its “full report”.

 Acoording to sources, the probe has revealed that the doctors concerned did not do enough to stop the bleeding from Roy’s liver. Also, the probe panel has reportedly found that though Roy was administered local anaesthesia only once, the family was billed for four anaesthesia procedures. 
 
 “The panel will submit a consolidated report once they are done with it. The police and the committee are looking into it. Let them work freely,” the chief minister said at Nabanna.
 
 Earlier, Kolkata Police commissioner Rajeev Kumar met health department officials at the state secretariat. Sources said the meeting dwelled on possible steps that can be taken against the erring persons, both doctors and administrative staff,
 
 Sources said Phoolbagan cops had called four doctors and an   official on Friday to record their statements. After they were questioned for three and a half hours, the investigating officers were summoned to Swasthya Bhavan where they met the probe team and shared investigation details. Police said they are waiting for an assessment from Lalbazar before proceeding any further. Around 18 Apollo officials have been grilled so far.
 
 The cops said they were investigating three important aspects for which they have evidence: whether excessive tests were prescribed, who had conducted these tests and whether there was pressure on the family to pay up. “These are not technical questions since we are not qualified to understand that part. Each statement is being forwarded to concerned doctors of health department,” said an officer.
 
 Police sources said they were probing the role of some officials who are not visible in the CCTV footages. “We want to map the role of each official on that floor. Merely recording a statement does not make anyone a suspect,” said an officer at Lalbazar after allegations of a witch-hunt by police against hospital staffers. Sources said questioning of Apollo officials will continue even on this weekend.
 
 
