AMRITSAR:   unit is apprehensive of a split following former MP   formally joining the Congress. His wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu, BJP MLA from Amritsar (East) constituency, has already shifted loyalty to the Congress ahead of the assembly polls. A group of Sidhu's loyalists held a meeting on Monday to decide their future course of action.

 Seeking anonymity, leader of a faction of BJP told TOI on Monday, "We are supporters of Sidhu not because he is a celebrity but because he is a sincere leader having vision for Punjab."
 
 He said that sooner or later they had to decide whether to stay with BJP or join Sidhu's bandwagon with the Congress.
 
  However, he didn't disclose what transpired in their meeting. "Let the time come, everything will be out in the open," he said. Expressing ignorance about any meeting of Sidhu supporters, one of his loyalists and a staunch BJP worker, Somdev Sharma said, "There is no question over his sincerity, but he never thought about his supporters who worked for him day and night."
 
 Sharma, a former spokesperson of Amritsar BJP, said there was much resentment against Sidhu but not because he had shifted loyalty but he kept his supporters in dark.
 
 On the other hand, Amritsar district BJP president Rajesh Huny said, "Navjot Kaur joined the Congress nearly a month ago and not a single BJP worker went with her. Likewise, no dedicated worker will side with Sidhu. Everyone's realized they're opportunists."
 
 After Kaur's resignation, BJP top brass is facing a tough time in selecting a candidate since several leaders, including Huny, Rama Mahajan and Sukhminder Singh, have staked claim to the ticket. Huny said, "Yes, I am one of the aspirants, but will abide by the party's decision." Meanwhile, there is a tough competition for ticket for Amritsar   seat, which was vacated after resignation of   chief Captain  . BJP's former state vice-president Rajindermohan Singh Chhina is lobbying for the ticket, but sources in the party said the top brass was interested in a celebrity.
 
 Sources said that party leaders were in touch with Bollywood actors Sunny Deol and Anupam Kher and some former cricketers as well. "We want to bring a person of Sidhu's stature at least," said a senior BJP leader.
 
