BAREILLY: “Salaam,” says the man at the other end of the phone in farmer Jameel Ahmed’s hand. “Yes, my name is  . I am about to cross the  . I am in my truck. But network is weak here and I don’t understand anything of what you are saying. What Audi, what accident? Itminan se samjhaiye (Please explain properly.)”
 
  The   of January 27, in which Safdarjung hospital surgeon Dr Manish Rawat’s Q7 rammed an auto-rickshaw in Indirapuram (Ghaziabad), killing all four passengers inside, has taken a curious turn.
  
  Three days after a man named Ishaq Ahmed from Labheda (Hafizganj) in Bareilly mysteriously popped up to tell the Ghaziabad chief judicial magistrate that he was the one driving the killer SUV, got bail and disappeared thereafter.
  
 One of the two Ishaq Ahmeds in Labheda told TOI on Friday that he has never seen the inside of a “luxurious car”. He said he drives a   that transports heavy machinery. The other Ishaq Ahmed is a daily-wage labourer. He said he doesn’t own a TV and can’t read. So he has no idea “what is happening in Dilli”.
  
  But the address is the same as the one furnished in court -- Labheda village,  , Bareilly. In the little cluster, about 30 km from Bareilly, very few have heard about the deadly accident. Ishaq, the truck driver, however, says he got a call “from someone” asking about the incident.
  
  
  "I drive a truck," Ishaq, 32, said. “What will I do with an Audi? I have never met Manish Rawat or heard of him. On that midnight of January 27, when the accident is supposed to have happened, I was in Gujarat. On 31st January, when the person impersonating me took all the blame, I was at home. How could I have surrendered in court? Even now, I am travelling and am in Bengal. I will return to Bareilly in a week and find out what is happening. I will go to court myself and charge the man sullying my reputation.”
  
  Jameel is equally bewildered. “Someone close to our family could have used my son’s documents to frame him,” he said. “Ishaq is a class III dropout. He has two children – one is 7 and the other 4. He remarried two years back following the death of his first wife and lives in Peer Bohra village with his in-laws. His kids are with us. Can you give us details of the other Ishaq?”
  
  Kaloo Qureshi, the owner of the truck that Ishaq drives, vouched for his employee. “Ishaq has been driving my vehicle for a year. He has never given us any trouble.” Before Kaloo, Ishaq drove Kaloo’s relative Afzal Qureshi’s truck. No issues there either.
  
  Inspector at Hafizganj police station Rakam Singh said, “I have not heard about the Audi-auto accident. No police officer from Noida or Ghaziabad has contacted me regarding the records of Ishaq Ahmed.”
  
  Shifting uneasily in her plastic chair that’s kept outside the broken wall of their half-built house, Ishaq’s mother Shehra Bano said, “Not even an ant has ever come under the wheels of my son’s trucks. If his vehicle had met with an accident, he would have informed us. He is a good man, a good father who frequently gives money to us to take care of his children.”
  
