MUMBAI: Shiv Sena strongman   had prior knowledge the   in Ghatkopar in which he had three flats was weak and needed immediate structural repairs, yet he neither took the BMC's permission to carry out   or repairs nor was it done under the supervision of an  , which led to the building’s collapse. This and other damning allegations are listed against the main accused, Shitap, and others in the police   that runs into over 2,000 pages.

 Siddhi Sai Apartment, a ground-plus-four-storey structure, collapsed on July 25, killing 17 people, including two infants. Residents of the ill-fated building have given statements they knew Shitap was carrying out work illegally, but feared him due to his clout and political connections.
 
 Last Friday, Parksite Vikhroli police submitted the chargesheet before the Vikhroli Metropolitan Magistrate. Police have chargesheeted Shitap, interior designer Ranjit Aagle and civil contractor Anil Mandal under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 Curiously, police have added IPC sections 201 and 511 pertaining to destruction of evidence only against Agale, the interior designer, who passed himself off as an architect, and also tried to conceal the contract agreement signed between him and Shitap.
 
 Police said Agale had signed a contract to carry out repairs of the three flats for Rs 75,000. Shitap was to provide the material. Agale had given the contract for civil work to Anil Mandal who had engaged eight-10 labourers.
 
 Citing BMC’s inquiry report, the chargesheet states the 38-year-old Siddhi Sai building was weak and Shitap was aware of this. Yet, he carried out several structural changes without informing BMC. It further states Shitap had taken permission to run a nursing home in 2009 on the three flats he owns on the ground floor. He carried out repairs as well as structural changes on the property on several occasions without any permission from the BMC. In the latest round of repair work, police said under the pretext of carrying out plaster work, he allegedly tampered with the RCC pillars and even knocked down walls to make the rooms bigger, leading to the structure being weakened. The chargesheet states instead of appointing a structural engineer/architect, Shitap had appointed an interior designer, Ranjit Agale, to carry out the repairs.
 
 In the chargesheet, police have attached the First Information Report (FIR), 17 death certificates, post-mortem reports, the BMC reports, structural audit reports, statements of witnesses (residents), BMC officials, six labourers who have given statements under CrPC 164, more than a dozen photos of Shitap's flat before the collapse (which TOI was the first to publish), CCTV footage of the collapse and Call Detail Reports (CDR) of Shitap, Agale and Anil Mandal.
 
 Police have also attached screen shots of WhatsApp messages between Shitap, Agale and Mandal. “Shitap had created a WhatsApp group called ‘Shitap Hospital’ where they discussed day-to-day developments of the repair work. This is an important piece of evidence to prove each person’s role,” said an officer.
 
 
