KOLKATA: On Friday evening, Prerna stepped into unchartered territory, moving forward gingerly knowing she carried on her shoulders the expectations and hopes of 5 million Howrah residents. Sibling Rachna will follow suit a fortnight from now. 

 Prerna and Rachna are the names of the two   (TBMs) that are constructing the underwater tunnels. Nameless and faceless when they arrived from Herrenknecht AG plant in Schwanau, Germany, the machines were christened last March after two real-life siblings residing in a Sodepur locality. 
 
 Prerna Saha, 15, studies in Class X at St Xavier’s Institution while her sister Rachana, 9, studies in Class IV. On Friday, they were aware that Prerna was heading into the river bed, a development that evoked both joy and sadness. Excited as they were at the progress of the monstrous machines named after them, they were also distraught at their father’s absence from the scene of action 18km away.
 
 “Bimal was the billing manager at the Afcons project. Apart from being a diligent worker who was loved by his colleagues, he was a doting father whom his daughters adored. We were all so proud he was part of this project that promised to change the face of Howrah. Then, fate played its cruel trick and snatched him away last February,” recounted wife Ratna, breaking into sobs as the moment of reckoning overwhelmed her. 
 
 On February 25, 2016, Bimal, who was riding a two-wheeler on his way to the East-West Metro construction site in Howrah Maidan, met with a fatal accident. Rain had made the road slippery. As his motorcycle’s wheels hit a tram track at the MG Road-Central Avenue crossing, it skidded. Bimal fell on the road and was run over by a bus. 
 
 “The accident shook all of us up. He was such a lively person and so gentle-hearted that it was difficult for us to accept he was gone,” recounted Afcons project Virinder Kaul. Not only did Bimal do his job — quantity survey, costing and billing — with utmost seriousness, he also spread good cheer among his colleagues. 
 
 “This was Bimal’s second stint at Afcons. He had joined the project five years ago. After three years, he left for another company. We were so glad he had returned. He had this saintly quality that made everyone calm, even when there was stress during the trying times. It was really sad he died just before the TBMs got rolling. So when the company decided to name the machines, we were asked to suggest female names. The first names that struck us were Bimal’s daughters Prerna and Rachna. Since Prerna was elder, we named the TBM that had started first after her,” said Satya Narayan Kunwar, the project design head.
 
 Afcons had called Ratna and her daughters when Prerna and Rachna was launched in March 2016. A year has passed since and the machines are now poised to make the crossing. At the Sodepur home though, the moment brought back memories of Bimal’s laughter and left everyone in tears.
 
