GURUGRAM: Haryana’s version of Uttar Pradesh’s “anti-Romeo” drives has come to Gurugram, and brought with it the fear of moral policing in the Millennium City.

 The UP campaign was marred by controversy as the drive to make roads safer for women degenerated into moral policing and harassment of couples by cops. It also led to several cops being suspended.
 
 In Gurugram, however, the police claimed they were not officially involved in the first round of  , the name Haryana has given to the drive. As many as 15 men were arrested by the CM’s flying squad, which included   sleuths and some police personnel.
 
 While 11 men were picked up from various points on MG Road in the early hours of Thursday on charges of harassing women, four were nabbed from outside   in Sector 14 on Wednesday afternoon on similar charges. They were produced before a magistrate on Thursday morning and released on bail, cops said.
 
 “FIRs have been lodged against 11 of them arrested from MG Road under Section 160 (punishment for affray) of IPC at DLF Sector 29 police station,” said sub-inspector Mool Chand from the police station. Similarly, FIRs were lodged against the four nabbed from outside the college under the same section of the IPC at Civil Lines police station, another police official said.
 
 Police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar refused to take responsibility for the raids. “We did not carry out any raids,” he told TOI on Thursday. When reminded members of the city police were part of the “anti-Romeo” teams, he jovially said, “It is not  . Why give the poor guy a bad name!” 
 
 According to him, Gurugram police is yet to receive instructions as to how these teams will be constituted and who will form a part of it. Considering the police force is already facing a personnel crunch, it will be a difficult task to have dedicated teams for the purpose. 
 
 As of now, there are no designated spots, where the teams might raid, but the commissioner informed it will focus of places where instances of harassment are common. “The purpose of this initiative is to boost women's safety,” he said.
 
 The commissioner said that he is still waiting for instructions from the state level, and that the police will make its own modus operandi to find such culprits, which could include “boorish behaviour in the open, or on the basis of the complaint of a woman, or by using decoys”, he said, referring to the women constables dressed in civil dress, who are harassed by men, then booked by the police.
 
 “We will use a right mix of officers for the purpose, those with perceptive skills” when asked about the chances of the drive ending up harassing people.
 
 The commissioner also denied that the initiative will not be used for purposes of moral police or to target consenting couples. 
 
 "We will act on the basis of the law, and will respect people's rights and privacy,” he said. “There is this thing called perception. The intention is to bolster public confidence,” he added.
 
 
