BHOPAL: Village panchayats in Madhya Pradesh would prepare their own budget from the 2017-18 financial year. This would ensure steady development in rural areas. The decision has been taken in view of slow pace of development in villages despite proper allocation of funds.

 The panchayat and rural development department finalised the concept and initiated training programmes of panchayat members, including sarpanch, to make them aware of their requirements and priorities.
 
 “Villages have their own priorities which include school buildings, sports ground, supply of drinking water, underground water recharge and irrigation, construction of crematoriums, cemented roads connecting state highways, e-connectivity centres, pucca toilets besides anganwadi and panchayat buildings. For integrated development of villages under smart village concept, there should be proper allocation of funds and their disbursement too. Hence, the concept of village budget has been initiated,” state panchayat and rural development minister Gopal Bhargava told TOI.
 
 He said panchayats would only be able to work effectively if they have sufficient financial resources commensurate with the functions assigned to them. They also need financial resources for local planning and to implement projects for meeting local demands. Financial resources available to them could be divided into two categories — resources from central and state governments in the form of grants and schemes while their own that comes from taxes and user fees collected by them, he added.
 
 It was also said that funds granted to panchayats could also be tied or untied. Tied funds would be strongly linked with the schemes for which they are granted, thus panchayats could not use their discretion while spending them. Untied funds provide them more autonomy to spend as per the local needs, said officials of the panchayat department.
 
 “As of now, we have allocated Rs4 lakh each to all 23,000 village panchayats for 52,000 villages under them through the 14th Finance Commission. Funds from state finance commission are yet to be disbursed. In case panchayats require more for some specific purpose, the government will provide the same,” said Bhargava, and added that other sources of funding to panchayats include   (BAGF) and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). 
 
 It was noticed that despite allocation of funds, the panchayats were not granted permission to spend on development works which resulted in delay in several beneficiary schemes. This was caused due to lack of awareness among panchayat representatives and also callous attitude of the officials.
 
 As per the new plan, village panchayats would assess their requirements and plan for their own budget in the gram sabha (general meeting) on the basis of their income and expenses. Since the planning would being done from 2017-18 financial year, panchayats could also decide to impose taxes and prioritise areas of expenses.
 
 Madhya Pradesh had enacted the Panchayat Raj Adhiniyam, 1993 to establish a three-level Panchayati Raj system in the state. It was the first state to hold elections to the panchayats after the 73rd Constitution amendment. In 2001, the Panchayati Raj Adhiniyam was amended by the Gram Swaraj Adhiniyam, which brought about significant changes in the structure of Panchayati Raj, by strengthening gram sabhas and directly constituting committees at the gram sabha level to plan and implement programmes. Recently, the law has been further amended to restore the position of the gram panchayat as the executive arm of self-government.
 
 The state has now decided to replace the separate village-level committees for development, education, health, infrastructure, security, agriculture, public property and social justice with two new committees — the Gram Nirman Samiti and the Gram Vikas Samiti, both chaired by the sarpanch. 
 
 Question is whether panchayat representatives could plan their budget as per their requirements. “No, not exactly. It was in 1998 when the panchayat representatives were given financial powers to plan their development and expenditure regarding various programmes, but most of the panchayats failed to send their plans. They were dependent on the state government as they lacked planning and implementation strategy,” observed financial expert Dr R S Tiwari.
 
 He said with the current three-tier arrangement of gram panchayat, janpad panchayat and zila panchayat, most of the proposals are not attended to by the officials or the representatives. Government will have to find ways to check corruption if this is implemented, he said.
 
 
