NEW DELHI: With Punjab and Goa elections out of the way,   is getting its act together for the  , which are less than two months away. It will start a   campaign by next week, using the second anniversary of the AAP government in Delhi as a starting point to advertise its achievements. The party will also highlight the “misrule” in the three corporations led by BJP in the past one decade.

 AAP functionaries said that work on ground started several months ago, but now a sustained, more visible campaign would be undertaken. “With AAP completing two years in government on February 14, we will conduct an audit of our work. Two pamphlets, one describing the government’s efforts and another talking about the achievement of the MLA representing a particular ward, will be distributed in each ward by our volunteers. Each MLA has, therefore, been asked to prepare a list of works they have done in their areas and get pamphlets printed,” said Dilip Pandey, AAP’s Delhi convener.
 
 Pandey said that sanitation and corruption will be the two major issues on the basis of which the party would campaign. “BJP has been in power in all three corporations for the past 10 years. We have since then seen frequent strikes by the sanitation staff, extremely poor standards of cleanliness across the city and financial mismanagement of a massive proportion,” Pandey added. 
 
 He claimed that BJP had, in some ways, already paved the way for its departure. “People are fed up with the state of sanitation in the city and AAP has been raising the issue in the form of campaigns, etc, through last year. Along with our own achievements, we will also highlight the massive corruption in the corporations under BJP’s rule,” Pandey maintained.
 
 Delhi, which has been witnessing a major tussle between the state government and the Centre since AAP came to power in 2015, has also seen several projects stuck due to this deadlock. AAP, however, contests the fact that little has been done in the city because of this. “In fact, if one were to analyse our work, it will seem that despite all the hurdles, we managed to do much more than what any other government has delivered and we still have three more years to go,” said a senior party member.
 
 “AAP has delivered on promises like water, power, education, healthcare, etc. What has not happened till now will be achieved before the term is over. Our strength lies in door-to-door campaigning and our volunteers will engage with each household to explain the situation to them.” 
 
 
