BENGALURU: Assembly elections next year and a nationally resurgent BJP were expected to make chief minister   deliver a please-all budget. He did pretty much that on Wednesday , keeping taxes largely unchanged, making bumper allocations to his political base of backward castes and minorities, and, in several cases, taking leaves out of the books of popular Tamil Nadu chief ministers.

 Bengaluru's middle and upper middle classes will remember this budget most for its proposal to make multiplex tickets no more than Rs 200. The rate is higher than the Rs 120 prevalent in Tamil Nadu, but it is significantly lower than the usual weekend rates, and also lower than most weekday rates. Drinking beer and wine at restaurants will become cheaper though there will be no difference in pricing if you enjoy liquor more.
 
 The lower-income segments in Bengaluru will remember the budget most for the   that intends to pro vide breakfast for a mere Rs 5 and lunch and dinner for Rs 10. A similar programme in Tamil Nadu -called Amma Unavagams -endeared many to J Jayalalithaa, who had implemented it during her stint as CM in 2013. Siddaramaiah said there would be one canteen in each of the city's 198 wards and allocated Rs 100 crore for the scheme. The city and other towns in the state can also take heart from the 91% increase in capital allocations for urban development. Exactly how much is going where is not clear. Among some big projects indicated is yet another attempt to ease the congestion at   junction, the idea of a steel flyover having been abandoned.The budget has allocated Rs 88 crore for the construction of an underbridge and widening of the overbridge at the junction.
 
 The budget's biggest increases in allocations are for irrigation and for the welfare of scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward classes. The former was necessary given the successive years of drought that has broken the backs of farmers, but it also addresses perhaps the single biggest concern of a large base of voters.
 
 Power is another sector that receives a major increase in allocations, a recognition of the severe power situation in the state.
 
 For two years now, Siddaramaiah has increased budgetary expenditures. This has been made possible by the increase in open market loans, which rose by 73% this fiscal and will rise by 24% next fiscal. Despite this, he has been able to keep the fiscal deficit within the limits of fiscal prudence because of the revision in the way state domestic product is estimated nationally (the change has been in the way IT sector's contribution is estimated).
 
