Having spent nine months inside the mother’s womb, a child’s journey outside of that safe cocoon is filled with trepidation. The right environment for the baby right after birth, is not in an incubator but on her mother’s bare chest, skin-to-skin. The baby needs her mother’s comforting voice, smell and touch. However, much against the nature’s order, both mother and child are separated at birth. The new born is immediately sent for assessment and even cleaned before she is returned to the mother, ripping her off the familiarity of the smell of its amniotic fluid and familiarity of the rhythms of her mother's heartbeats and respirations. 

 The first skin-to-skin contact helps regulate baby's heart rate, blood sugar, respiration and even body temperature. It helps the baby as well as the mother feel more secure and calm. Dr Vijaya Krishnan, CPM (Certified Professional Midwife) USA, LCCE, FACCE, DPF, Healthy Mother Wellness & Care, Member of Medela India Lactation Consultant’s Club says, “The "golden hour" after birth, and the first 48 hours are absolutely crucial for both the mother and child. It is extremely important that the child is breastfed as much as possible in this duration. For the fear of infection, most nurses take a spirit soaked cotton and clean the mother’s nipples, without realizing that they are removing the familiar smell, making it difficult for the new born to latch. They clean the child, wash the mother’s nipples, inadvertently removing every familiarity that the child can hold on to.” They don’t realize that the mother’s bacteria called microbiomes are indeed important for the baby.
 
 
 
 How many of you actually exceeded your due date and were told (or themselves chose) to go ahead with an induced delivery? It isn’t an uncommon practice; and is extremely erroneous too. You ask why? Dr Vijaya explains, “Estimated date of delivery (EDD) is just a date - but the care-provider, the mother, and her whole family take it extremely seriously. And this alone is the reason that most women go for induced labour or a cesarean section, once they cross the date. We cannot be absolutely accurate about gestational dates. I personally tell all expectant mothers to not worry until 42 weeks, which is two weeks past the due date, as long as mother and baby are well. If the baby is taking longer, it is most likely because it is not ready to come outside yet.” If the baby is forced to come out before time, it can lead to increased incidences of respiratory distress.
 
 
 
 On one hand, the mother is sedated and groggy after the delivery, especially if it is caesarean. On the other hand, the infant, new to the surroundings, resists breastfeeding, because the initiation has been delayed. This leads to the mother feeling distressed, the baby wailing uncontrollably and to make matters worse, the new born is given formula milk to soothe her hunger. Dr Vijaya warns, “This is absolutely unnecessary. The mode of delivery should not affect bonding and breastfeeding. If we just follow nature’s way, the baby will on its own latch on to the mother’s breast. It has to survive and will do so, provided we do not severe the bond.”
 
 We should never forget that the newborn’s environment before birth was her mother. The baby is completely dependent on her mother and severing that connection at childbirth is against the very science of birth.
 
 
 
