BENGALURU: On January 28, the   auctioned a special number, KA-5-ML-0007 for Rs 1.95 lakh. Apart from the auction amount, the owner of the vehicle had to pay an additional Rs 75,000 before he could drive around with the  .

 But most politicians have access to coveted numbers such as these without paying a rupee. Fisheries, port and youth affairs minister  , for instance, registered his official vehicle KA-50-GA-8 soon after he took oath in June 2016 without paying anything. Reason: All government vehicles are exempted from paying taxes or fees for registration of vehicles.
 
 The demand for fancy   is based on numerology, and has provided an avenue for the transport department to rake in the moolah. Such is the rush for these fancy numbers that at auctions organised by the transport department in 2015-16, it raised as much as Rs 10.64 crore.
 
 However, due to a series of government orders, all government vehicles have been exempted from paying any fee and so most ministers have been able to get a fancy number for their official cars no matter how short their tenure is.
 
 Former excise minister Manohar Tahsildar received a brand new Toyota Fortuner car with a fancy number of 007. But his term was only for three months, which he allegedly blamed on the ill luck brought by the car.
 
 “Almost all ministers have requisitioned a fancy number while registering a car for their official use, considering each gets a brand new car on taking oath,” a senior department of personnel and administrative reforms (DPAR) official said.
 
 In 2016-17, the state government purchased 12 new Innova Crysta model cars at a cost of Rs 19.5 lakh each. Most of the cars were registered with fancy numbers based on requests from ministers.
 
 “When it comes to government vehicles, a lot of registration series are open. If there is an option available, we provide the registration numbers the government wants. There is no fees or taxes to be paid for these vehicles,” said joint commissioner (e-governance) for transport department M P Omkareshwari.
 
 As of date, two government series of A and B have been opened for the state government to take their choice of fancy numbers. As many as 25,327 government vehicles have been exempted from paying taxes or fees to the transport department, which includes these vehicles with fancy numbers.
 
