  , who won the Nobel Prize for Peace in 2014, was in the city in connection with  , an awareness Yatra from Kanyakumari to Delhi, during which he will be requesting people to lend their voice against child trafficking and child abuse. 
Satyarthi admits that when he discussed the idea of the Yatra with his Nobel Peace prize-winner friends, they were not only surprised, but also shocked. “They told me, ‘Going to villages, meeting farmers, workers and public, no Nobel winner has done that’. But I told them that I have been doing it for the past 40 years and am still working on it.”
 Recalling that working for the cause of child safety has not been an easy one, he says that he has learnt to wage war in a non-violent way. “If your enemy is in front of you, you can at least react. But they are invisible. Two of my friends were killed, my office was burnt and home ransacked. I was attacked many times and my limbs and back were broken by the criminals. But that has not deterred me. I am a strong believer of love and I know that reacting won’t work,” he asserts.
 Child abuse and trafficking are not confined to our country alone, he says, and adds that he has been working to stop this ‘moral epidemic’, across 144 countries. “But the evil is on the rise,” he says.
 A decade ago, Government of India along with an international NGO had released a report, which stated that 53% of children were sexually abused before they turned 18. I don’t think that the numbers have come down. In all probability, it should have gone up due to reasons like fearlessness of the predators and the fear of the society.”
 Saying that predators are everywhere, he wants the speed and conviction rate to be upped. “POSCO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act) is a very strong law but the enforcement is pathetic and convictions are very low. There are cases running for about 40 years and imagine the trauma of the victim, who might be in 50s, attending the court even now?”
 Pointing out the irony in the cases of child abuses, he says, “In 70 % the cases, the predators are known to the child. I have understood from my meetings with the victims that they live in fear and are traumatised, while the culprits go around fearless. I want this culture to be changed.”
 He says that Tamil Nadu is not isolated when it comes to child abuse. “Un fortunately there are no exact figures and we depend on National Crime Records Bureau for the data.”
 Talking about the influence of Thiru valluvar’s works in his life, he says, “I had read his work as a child. He is a great poet who taught us the value of compassion, centuries ago. Compassion is the most powerful virtue which can change the society. I am calling everyone to connect through compassion as it drives to change the sufferings of others.”
 Quite impressed with the fight late Periyar had put up decades ago, he says, “Tamil Nadu has the history of fighting the longest struggle against discrimination and injustice, under Periyar. Taking a cue from there, I want people to stop showing discrimination towards children and consider every child as theirs.”
 He says that he strongly believes that the electoral representatives can bring about a change. “My appeal to the politicians in Tamil Nadu is to go and visit their schools. I want every one of them to visit the school they studied in and the schools in their constituency, not as a celebrity, but as a parent and see whether the schools are safe for children. They should listen and feel the pulse of parents.”
 Talking about the way good touch and bad touch are taught to children in schools, he says, “Age and culture-appropriate sex education is a must in all schools, including the government and rural schools, and teaching good touch and bad touch alone are not enough.”
 Ask him whether he thinks that he will be able to get the government and system acting quick against the predators through the Yatra, pat comes the reply. “Bharat Yatra is not new to me. In 2001, I took up a similar journey, Education March, from Kanyakumari to New Delhi, for creating awareness on the right to education. I was not a Nobel Prize winner then. But the March prompted the government to amend the constitution and make education a fundamental right, within five months. In that way, this strategy is a time-tested one.”
 This time Satyarthi is emphasising on a stronger law against trafficking. “In India, eight children go missing every hour. In Kashmir, children are used as shields to terrorism. After education becoming a fundamental right, now, I want children to know their rights through education. For the first time in the world history, such a huge social movement has been launched against the evil of sexual abuse. I have great faith in the power of civil society. I believe in the power of common people and youth, and together we are going to insist on a stronger law. The uniqueness of this Yatra is that for the first time, for the cause of children, religious leaders are joining together. We are going to have three round tables with the participation of faith leaders. And I dream of an India where any child in distress is able to step into any religious place and seek safety.
 He adds, “Many people think that after winning the highest prize (Nobel), one can sit idle and talk like a celebrity. But I can’t. My journey is a call from the fear because my children are not safe. I want to tell the abusers to stop now. I will do everything possible to stop them. I will knock every door, the doors of corporate leaders, artists, politicians, bureaucrats and judiciary. If one single child is in danger, India is in danger and I want to stop that.”
 
