BENGALURU: The   ( ) has asked bankers to start the recovery process of Rs 6,203 crore at 11.5% interest from liquor baron   and the companies run by him. The debts are with respect to the loans taken by   (KFA), which ceased its operations in October 2012. The consortium of bankers, led by  , has been fighting the case at various courts across the country and has managed to sell only a few shares so far.

 Banks say that this order is a victory for them as it is one more hurdle out of the way for recovery through sale of assets. A spokesperson for the UB Group, however, said that it is awaiting a copy of the order passed by the DRT, following which it will go in for an appeal.
 
 The banks had previously tried to auction Mallya's bungalows and private jet without success.   moved to Britain in March last year after being pursued in courts by banks. Government authorities have been trying to have Mallya -who denies being an absconder - deported back to the country by Britain.
 
 "I hereby ask the bankers to start the process of recovery of Rs 6,203 crore at the interest rate of 11.5% per annum from Mallya and his companies, including   (UBHL), Kingfisher Finvest and Kingfisher Airlines," DRT presiding officer K Sreenivasan said in the order.
 
 The presiding officer also disposed of as many as 20 interloculatory applications, including several by banks, Mallya and his companies.The proceedings have been going on at the DRT for more than three years. During this time, Mallya had several runins and breach of trust issues with DRT, courts, and the bankers.
 
 In 2014, Mallya had given an oral undertaking to the DRT that he would not alienate assets of himself and his indebted companies, UBHL and KFA. But Mallya was later sent a notice for contempt proceedings by the Karnataka high court for breaking the oral undertaking he had given to a judicial body.
 
 SBI had filed three other applications also, including one seeking Mallya's arrest and impounding his passport for "defaulting" on loans.But, Mallya has contended repeatedly that he cannot be blamed for the failure of KFA as a company .
 
