INDORE: There are still several challenges that   (IMC) faces in keeping its number one rank in   as officials feel that receiving the   is just half of the work.

 "  needs to improve to make it more effective and increasing the number of collection vehicles is a solution," IMC commissioner Manish Singh said.
 
 He added three transfer stations will start to function from next one month. It will take three to four months to develop five more stations for the secondary garbage collection processing stage to streamline.
 
 "Apart from strengthening bio-remediation at the trenching ground, IMC work is underway to establish a waste-to-energy plant in the next year and a half. The civic body is also working on Khan and Saraswati River cleaning project in three phases and on the sewage line tapping project in two phases," Singh said.
 
 He also emphasized that spot fines will be imposed for littering and IMC employees' work will be properly monitored to ensure cleanliness is maintained and they remain motivated.
 
 While several cities have assigned private companies to manage cleanliness and garbage collection systems, IMC managed to clinch the award by its own hard work.
 
 "Dedication by sanitation workers, the support from all six unions of sanitation workers, citizens' civic sense and the support of public representatives worked in our favour. Any other city can get the same result with this sort of a combination," Singh said.
 
 IMC had assigned the   to A-to-Z Company but after it failed to yield results, the civic body sacked the company around two years ago and took up the work on its own. 
 
 Mayor Malini Gaud said the award for being the cleanest city is a big achievement. It demands dedication and strict work.
 
 "We will remain committed to this style of work to maintain our first position," Gaud said.
 
 She added that IMC has undertaken the work of Smart City project. Work to develop gardens, roads, drinking water facilities and drainage pipelines in the 29 villages that recently came under the civic body's jurisdiction as well as two water-pumps at Jalud station to fetch 15 MLD water is in full swing.
 
 She added this award will attract investors and industries to establish their units in Indore.
 
 
