She may be doing a daily soap after 10 years, but   still exudes the same enthusiasm as she did when she was a part of popular shows like 'Saaya', 'Gharwali Uparwali' and ' '. As she makes a comeback with TV show 'Dhaai Kilo Prem', which is a not a conventional saas-bahu soap, but slice-of-life drama, she talks about television then and now. Excerpts... 

 
 Honestly, not much has changed. The set of a daily soap feels pretty much the same. I was really nervous and apprehensive on the first day of my shoot, but by the end, it felt like home again. I didn’t feel like I was returning after almost a decade. Also, though I had not faced the camera after 'Kkusum', I was working behind it, producing content. I think the whole process of shooting a daily soap is more fine-tuned and people know the mistakes or problems that can occur; everyone is more savvy with the whole process now.
 
 
 My daughter  , like any regular urban teenager, doesn’t watch Indian television, but she’s aware of the naagins and the makkhis. So, when she figured that I was going to start doing television again, she said, ‘I hope you are not going to turn into a   or some such thing!’ I laughed and told her ‘No’, but I also explained to her that there’s nothing wrong with it because these things are popular in our country, just like shows on vampires and werewolves are common abroad. If they watch Twilight, people here watch 'Naagin' and other such shows from the supernatural genre. Personally, I prefer shows like 'The Good Wife', 'House of Cards' and 'How To Get Away With Murder'. But I’m an Indian television actor and I will do stuff that’s happening in my country. So, if I were offered a role like that, I would take it up as a challenge. I believe that as an actor, it’s your job to evoke those emotions to become the character you have to play, no matter how far-fetched or removed it may be from your reality. And if the audience likes you, your job is done.
 
 Definitely! It would be so much nicer if there were different kind of stories being told across channels, but then people think that if a particular concept is working, why rock the boat? To be fair, channels have made attempts to do something different. Slowly, Indian television will also undergo a metamorphosis, especially with the advent of web series and changing viewing patterns.
 
 
 That’s because we are a vast country with a hugely varied population. So, it’s bound to be challenging. But the fact that ratings are now being evaluated differently… perhaps things will change. And as an actor, I would love it if different content is produced. 
 
 Absolutely! Rohit and I have worked together in the past in a couple of ad films and a dance reality show. Also, we worked as a team when we started our production house and made a lot of non-fiction stuff, as well as a feature film, 'Pankh', 10 short films for TV, some of which Rohit directed, and we acted in together. So it’s been a good creative journey and we’d like to keep collaborating. Since we both love travelling, food and adventure, we have been toying with the idea of a show called 'Mr & Mrs Roy', where we’ll explore different parts of the world with our unique take on it. A fiction show will also be fun I think; we both love 'Packed To The Rafters', the Australian show about a couple and their kids.
 
 
  
