JALANDHAR: The BJP reached out to the poor and industrialists in its manifesto released on Sunday for the February 4 assembly elections in the state.

 Union finance minister   and state BJP president   released the election document in Jalandhar on Sunday. In the manifesto, the party has promised to provide employment in each household under ‘Ek Parivar, Ek Rozgar’ programme, a house for every poor, 2kg desi ghee and 5kg sugar for ‘blue card’ holders, free education till PhD for daughters of ‘blue card’ holders, loans for education of youth, rapid VAT-refunding process for industrialists, and implementation of the goods and services tax.
 
 Jaitley said while a lot of development had already taken place in Punjab under the SAD-BJP government in the past 10 years, the alliance was committed towards economic and social strengthening of the state. “When there is a coalition government, then programmes too are unified. Hence, keeping in mind the economic and social development of Punjab, we have come up with unified programmes in our manifesto. Our priority will be to carry forward works initiated by the coalition. Policies would be carved out for economic upliftment of Dalits, backward classes and weaker sections, so that we move towards the social strengthening,” he said.
 
 When asked if demonetisation would be a poll plank of the alliance in Punjab and pointed out that BJP minster Anil Joshi had reportedly been telling people during his campaigning in Amritsar that he should not be blamed for demonetisation, Jaitley said more than 75% of people had appreciated demonetisation, and it was actually the foundation for the economic strengthening of the country. “This drive which has been initiated to weed out corruption and black money will show results in coming months in the form of economic expansion of the country. Taxation will be simplified after implementation of GST from July 1,” he said.
 
 The Union minister later addressed a gathering in Ludhiana. Attacking the Congress, he said the party had lost its stronghold in many states and had started bending over backwards for an alliance with state parties, referring to its alliance with   in Uttar Pradesh. 
 
 Jaitley, who was on a whirlwind tour of the city to meet party workers, asked party workers to work hard and ensure the victory of SAD-BJP candidates from the district. 
 
 Jaitley said the Congress, which was the largest party in the country, was now confined to five states. “In the forthcoming elections, it will be wiped out from Manipur and Uttarakhand,” he said.
 
 He added that the Congress was in such a bad condition that it was ready for any kind of alliance for a handful of seats. “The BJP is the best alternative. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has the will to work for the welfare of the common man. In the past two and a half years, we brought in many public-friendly policies,” he said.
 
