CHANDIGARH: Sri Guru Singh Sabha Southall, the largest gurdwara outside India, is going to elect its new management committee on October 1. Despite being a religious organization, the election to the gurdwara management has always been full of masala akin to political pot-boilers in Punjab. What’s more, for the first time European Sikhs living around Southall will be allowed to vote too.

 The main contest for the management for the past few years has been between present gurdwara president Gurmail Singh Malhi-led Sher group and the   group led by Himmat Singh Sohi, who was at the helm of gurdwara affairs for the longest time since elections for the gurdwara were made a norm in 1993.
 
 A third group, Tera Panth Vasey, set up in 2014, is a group of largely young UK-born Sikhs who say they “want to bring the focus back to gurdwaras becoming centres of learning and not political arenas”. The gurdwara has a membership base of nearly 10,000 Sikhs from the boroughs surrounding Ealing Southall.
 
 While the manifestos of all three groups largely address issues like educational institutions, sports and other cultural activities, the social media mud-slinging has taken the discourse to a new low.
 
 According to sources, the Sher group is alleging financial improprieties by the Baaj Group and the latter is targeting Sher group members personally, including allegations of the gurdwara president having shares in a striptease club.
 
 In the latest incident in the run-up to the election, police had to be called outside Sikh Missionary Society, Southall, where KTV, a Sikh television broadcasting in UK and Europe, invited the main contesting parties to a debate.
 
 “KTV had invited all three parties to a TV debate at Norwood Hall on Wednesday evening. However, the venue was changed due to threat of violence by the supporters of Sher Group to Sikh Missionary Society. Despite the invite, no one attended the debate but in the middle of it started banging doors and windows. The police had to be called. I was personally threatened by   and Harjit Singh Sarpanch. I lodged my complaint to the police saying that these two as well as Gurmail Singh Malhi and Surinder Singh Dhatt had threatened me,” said  , former Ealing councilor and a nominee of Baaj group, who was part of the TV debate.
 
 Talking to TOI on Thursday, Manjit alleged, “The Malhi group has not accomplished even a single thing for the gurdwara. And despite being in the gurwdara committee, he bought a striptease club in 2012. I have never heard a Sikh anywhere in the world investing money in such a venture which disrespects women.”
 
 Refuting the allegations, Gurmail Singh Malhi said the gurdwara trustees at the last moment ordered the debate to be held away from the gurdwara property. “The Baaj group and KTV colluded and secretly started the show without letting the Sher group sewadars know. The presenters and the panel falsely said that windows were broken. We patiently waited and repeatedly asked to be let in. The whole debate was set up,” he added.
 
 Responding to the question about Manjit’s police complaint against him and his group, Malhi expressed ignorance. He, however, claimed that it was in fact Manjit who had threatened him and Dhatt in front of the police officials present on site, including Constable Shaun Sharif.
 
 In a social media message by Baljit Singh Malhi, brother of the current gurdwara president and his partner in the alleged gentlemen’s club, said the property was bought to be converted into a residential complex. The tenants were given notice to vacate since the takeover.
 
 Expressing disappointment over the level of allegations on social media, Balwinder Kaur Chahal, a noted community activist, said, “The discourse should not go down to the level of character assassination of women by bringing in daughters and sisters and daughters-in-law. Gurdwaras should be place for collective good and personal stakes should be kept away from these.”
 
