MUMBAI: Keeping people ‘happy’ with the right kind of mixes is an art only a good bartender can master. The right twist of lemon in a martini or a punch which is personalised to an individual’s taste, is what keeps people coming back to a pub or bar, which makes   key to their success. Demand for bartenders is, however, on a highball in the   with the mushrooming of pubs and   which has led to a shortfall of sorts. As a result, bartender salaries too have shot up.

 According to QuikrJobs’ blue-collar job market bulletin, which showcases the demand and supply side of recruitment in the job industry, demand for bartenders recorded a neat 42% jump in December 2016 over the previous month. On the other hand, the rise in demand for a construction labourer or a mechanic was a mere 5% and 1%, respectively. 
 
 Bartender salaries recorded a 54% increase over the previous month. On the other hand, the blue-collar jobs which witnessed a decline in average salaries from November to December 2016, were warehouse executive (-24%), mechanic (-21%), carpenter (-10%) and construction labourer (-2%).
 
 A person starting his bartending career earns about Rs 10,000 a month which subsequently goes up to Rs 25,000. Additionally, s/he earns from formulating drinks at external events such as weddings and birthday/office parties.
 
 Amit Jain, head, QuikrJobs, said: “While 50% of our traffic comes from towns beyond the top metros, demand for bartenders is predominantly from the metros. Proliferation of pubs in metros is a key contributor to this demand. What is interesting is since we opened these categories (bartenders, maids, etc.) on our platform last year, we have noticed 20-30% month-on-month increase in the number of candidates looking for these opportunities."
 
 Going by these numbers, there's certainly a large pool of bartenders to choose from. However, bars and pubs are anxious about talent shortage on this front. “Just take a look around, so many outlets/brands have come up in the last one year. There is actually a shortfall of bartenders,” said Mihir Desai, co-owner of Corum Hospitality, which runs The Bar Stock Exchange of India, which has nine outlets in Mumbai, Pune and Bengaluru, with each drinking joint employing 10 bartenders.
 
 The average age of bartenders is 25 to 28 years. There is no qualification or degree required to be a bartender. Typically, people do a bartending course and then join a bar. “Bartending is an art. You have to create new flavours,” said  , manager, Verbena BrewPub & SkyGarden, which has six bartenders. “For instance, with people these days becoming very health conscious, bartenders are also infusing herbs/fruits into cocktails," said Khhavle.
 
 Interestingly, even as bars struggle to get the right bartenders to grow their business, these jobs are already on an upskilling turf driven by innovation. "Talent has been refining themselves, transforming from bartenders to mixologists. They are also increasingly moving towards creating innovative drinks, thus building excitement around cocktails. Bars too are charging a premium to special fusion drinks and hence the increase in demand for specialist drink mixers and rise in their salaries," said Khhavle.
 
 So while other jobs reel under post-note-bandi blues, for bartenders, it's party time.
 
