BENGALURU: The number of motorists booked for   (DUI) of   is one of the highest in the country. However, city traffic police can’t rest on their laurels given that there have been several complaints, including that of flawed readings by breathalyzers.

 Following such complaints, city police commissioner Praveen   on Sunday tweeted that motorists can refuse to get tested for DUI if a fresh straw isn’t provided to blow into the machine to check alcohol content in blood. In his tweet, the top cop also made it clear that all policemen deployed for DUI tests have been provided with disposable straws.
 
 Bengaluru police booked 59,028 motorists for DUI in 2016. Licenses of several of these motorists were recommended for suspension.
 
 Talking to TOI, Sood said: “Many have disputed the readings, and it has even been used as an excuse. We want this process to be transparent. Policemen have been told how to operate the machines. Now, we are giving people the power to refuse to take the test if cops don’t follow the instructions.” 
 
 At present, a DUI check is done in two parts – checking whether a motorist is drunk, and then identifying the amount of liquor in his or her blood. Though the same machine is used on both occasions, the straws are used only in the second part. Initially, the motorist is asked to blow into the machine. If the person is found drunk, he/she is given a straw and asked to blow into the machine again. 
 
 Motorists say cops provide straws that have been used earlier, and if those tested earlier are drunk, liquor traces on the straw end up inflating their blood alcohol levels. 
 
 There have been a few incidents in Bengaluru where motorists who haven’t consumed alcohol have been booked for DUI, and they have returned with medical reports to prove the cops wrong.
 
  Sood said that if anyone feels the reading is incorrect, they can ask for a second check. “You can always go for a second test. Also, we are in the process of having at least two machines at every checkpoint. Once it’s done, people can test on a different machine as well,” he added. 
 
 
