CHENNAI: For 33 years, she lived in the shadow of J Jayalalithaa, in silence. Then, on Saturday, V K   spoke for 22 minutes, leaving the   leadership convinced: The queen is dead. Long live the queen.

 For many in the 45-yearold party, it was the perfect New Year gift — the loyal Chinnamma in place of the benevolent Amma. Taking charge as the sixth general secretary of the party, Sasikala made it clear that she needs the cadre more than they need her. “I accept this responsibility with the confidence that crores of party cadres will stand by me,” she said. Having undergone a subtle yet unmissable makeover — her blouse a cut up her nape, her hair now in a chignon — Sasikala was at once emotional and resolute.
 
 “We must proceed at the same speed with which Amma ran the party ... We will take the party forward in the same military discipline that Amma maintained,” she told the gathering of party leaders. Her speech in Tamil was punctuated — 52 times to be precise — by the name ‘Amma.’ The serving CM’s name found no mention. Sasikala said under her leadership the party will uphold the ideals of former CMs C N Annadurai, M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa. “They will be our icons. No one else will gain prominence here,” she said. 
 
 This had some leaders discussing, after the speech, whether she meant she would keep away her relatives who took centre stage at Jayalalithaa’s funeral, or that she would not allow anyone else to emerge as a parallel power centre. The speech opened on an emotional note. “When those who spent just a few seconds or met her for a few minutes are grieving, I who have spent 33 years with her cannot describe my emotions,” she said before highlighting the circumstances of her assuming the new role. 
 
 “For 33 years I attended several meetings along with Amma. Today a situation has arisen when I have to address you from this stage ... (this is) something that I never dreamed of.” Sasikala said Jayalalithaa’s well-being was her sole wish. “Is she ready to leave for Fort (secretariat)? What will she have for lunch? These were my daily thoughts,” she said, reminiscing how she walked into Poes Garden at the age of 29 and that she was 62 now. It was a struggle for 75 days, she said. “I was confident that I would take her back to Poes Garden, but Amma breathed her last when she was recovering.”
 
 
