KOLHAPUR: The house break-in menace continues to loom in the city with culprits entering a flat in Nagala park in broad day light on Tuesday.

 They made their escape with booty worth Rs 8 lakh, including 250g gold jewellery and Rs 40,000. The incident has been reported with Shahupuri police station. Police officials maintain their stand and claim that they have increased patrolling to keep a check on such activities.
 
 According to the police, the complainant   owns a flat in an apartment complex located on   road in Nagala Park. Magdum owns a stone crusher and his wife works at a government office.
 
 On Tuesday Magdum’s wife left for work after dropping their son at school. At around noon, Magdum locked his flat and went outside.
 
  Two hours later, when Magdum returned home, he saw the door of his house open. Assuming that his wife and son had returned, he entered to find all the house items strewn on the floor.
 
 He checked the lock on the main door and found that it was broken. He later checked the house and found a wooden cupboard in the bedroom open and valuables worth Rs 8 lakh and the cash inside the cupboard stolen. He immediately alerted the police.
 
 Praveen Chougule, Sahupuri police inspector in-charge said, “Immediately after the incident, we reached the spot with a dog squad and fingerprint experts. The dog sniffed and travelled some distance up to main road from the apartment. This indicates that the culprits may have used vehicles to flee the scene. We have some fingerprints and are verifying if these match with our database and culprits on record.”
 
 “There is one hotel at the apartment’s basement, but it was closed on Tuesday. The watchman on duty had also gone for some work on Tuesday afternoon. His wife was on duty, but she had been busy in some domestic work so she did not notice the culprits that entered the apartment and committed crime,” he said.
 
 “We are gathering information from residents of the apartment if they had spotted any person moving suspiciously around the apartment in the last few days. We are also checking the footage from   cameras in nearby areas and if the culprits are caught in any of them,” he said.
 
