PANAJI: A BJP core committee meeting with the Mayem mandal, held on Thursday to decide on a candidate for the constituency, took a heated turn with workers entering into an argument with defence minister   over speculations that speaker and   may be denied a ticket for the February  .

 Since the meeting was not conclusive, Parrikar called for a meeting of BJP panchas of the Mayem and Chorao panchayats and BJP Mayem mandal on January 8 and told the mandal that he will announce the name of the Mayem candidate on Sunday evening. 
 
 BJP commenced the second round of its candidate selection process on Thursday and around 90 BJP workers from Mayem had come to Panaji to attend the meeting. The BJP mandal took up cudgels for Shet, opposing a ticket any other candidate.
 
 A BJP senior leader present for the meeting said that when Parrikar saw the workers from Mayem entering the headquarters he immediately asked them why they had come in such large numbers.
 
 Parrikar, referring to out a media survey report, told the Mayem mandal that Shet is weak in some areas and that he needed to improve in those areas, the BJP senior leader said, and added that Parrikar further told the Mayem mandal that former congress candidate Pravin Zantye has a slight edge over Shet according to the media survey report. 
 
 The Mayem mandal told Parrikar that the survey was carried out post the Sesa Goa mining strike at Bicholim and that the situation had changed.
 
 The party has also completed assessment of the Pernem, Calangute, Quepem, Poriem and Curtorim constituencies. 
 
 The BJP core committee has received two name for the Pernem constituency including that of forest minister Rajendra Arlekar. In Calangute, sitting MLA Michael Lobo’s name has been cleared by the core committee. 
 
 The party has received three names for the Quepem seat, including that of former MLA Prakash Velip and Fatorpa panch Senzil D’Costa. For Curtorim, one name was received, that of Margao municipal council counsellor Arthur D’Silva 
 
 BJP has decided to contest in 37 constituencies and has so far heard out its  . 
 
