NEW DELHI: In what could be termed as maturing of India’s online market, Amazon’s global seller network will work with Amazon’s Indian sellers to present a combined voice in a marketplace when confronted with common issues.
 
  When asked how it will help sellers in India,   ( ), which is a bunch of over 6,000 top sellers of   in the USA, said it will help Indian sellers deal with compliance issues in the marketplace, which are common globally, such as account suspension of sellers, blocked listings and infringement issues.
  
  “My goal of unifying all sellers is to work with Amazon and help them communicate with us as well. Amazon and sellers are partners and if we show them areas of improvements for sellers without compromising on the buyer experience, we all win,” said Ed Rosenberg, founder of ASTG, who has over 20 years of selling online.
  
  Apart from sellers on Amazon, ASGTG will also help other sellers which operate in India such as  ,   and  . They also work with online sellers in European countries and Israel.
  
  
  
  
  “It will help sellers (in India) make a knowledge base of international best practices and problems. Also, there is a growing trend of retail exports, sellers selling on international sites will able to optimise business by hobnobbing with top sellers which ASGTG has,” said a spokesperson of All India Online Vendors’ Association (AIOVA), which is a group of over 1,500 online sellers on different platforms.
  
  AIOVA started off as a small group of online sellers which would unsuccessfully write letters, emails and seek appointments with government officials to highlight their concerns as sellers on   sites.
  
  Now a registered entity, they had to tweet their way to land some meetings with ministers and top government officials. An Amazon India spokesperson said that the company maintains open channels of communication with all its sellers.
  
  “We have created several feedback mechanisms that help us innovate on behalf of our sellers and continue offering a world-class seller experience. We are a transparent marketplace offering a level playing field to sellers of all sizes with no privilege support streams for any entity.”
  
  Internationally, online sellers have been selling online on Amazon and eBay since the ‘90s and have more experience of working with marketplaces than Indian sellers.
  
  While eBay entered the Indian market as early as 2005, competition in India’s ecommerce space intensified only after Amazon entered the market in 2013 and Flipkart diversified from just selling books to electronics and other products.
  
  Small and medium sellers on Amazon, Flipkart and Snapdeal have been complaining about marketplaces armtwisting them with policies that favour consumers and larger sellers.
  
  They have written to several government bodies seeking intervention and want a regulatory body established for the sector.
