COIMBATORE: The state government has sanctioned Rs 5.4crore for installing 12 mobile phone jammers at the   of Coimbatore, Puzhal, Vellore, Palayamkottai, Salem, Madurai,  . As of now Coimbatore   has six CCTV cameras. Prison authorities had requested the government for 30 CCTV cameras, but for now the government has sanctioned just ten CCTV cameras.

 As of now, over 1900 remand and convicted prisoners are lodged at the Coimbatore central prison. Prison authorities had provided two mobile phone jammers to the central prison, Coimbatore, in 2002-2003. However, the jammers had not been working due to technical snag. Prison authorities did not repair these jammers. Neither did they install jammers inside the high security blocks of the central prisons.
 
 A few years ago, prison authorities had requested the state government to allot Rs5.4crore to procure mobile phone jammers. The state   the amount a few weeks ago. Prison officials will use these funds to install two mobile jammers in block 01 and 02 in Puzhal prison -II, blocks 10 and 11 at the high security block at Coimbatore central prison and two blocks at Vellore central prison. The rest of the prisons would get one jammer each. Officials expect to get the jammers within one month.
 
 According to prison department sources, Coimbatore serial bomb blast case accused Ansari and few other Al-Umma cadres have been lodged in Block 10 and Al-Umma founder S A Basha and few other members of Al-Umma, have been spending their days behind bars in Block 11. 
 
 As of now, Coimbatore central prison has five CCTV cameras and one speed dome camera. The prison authorities had sent a proposal to the state government to sanction enough funds to procure 30 CCTV cameras for Coimbatore central prison but they were sanctioned funds for only ten CCTV cameras.
 
 More than 110 central reserve police force (CRPF) personnel are camping at the central prison to protect the outer periphery of the central prison, Coimbatore. The prison has a superintendent, one additional superintendent, one jailor, six assistant jailors, 33 chief warders, 88 grade one warders, 80 grade two warders and 18 female warders. 
 
