JODHPUR: Police are yet to arrest the accused and wrap up their investigation in the case, where a woman was allegedly set ablaze by the villagers while protesting the widening of the road adjacent to her family farm and felling of trees. However, different groups and communities, both pro-victim and pro-accused, have started taking to road and staging demonstration with their demands alleging police of working under pressure. 

 Terming the victim Lalita Dadheech, who succumbed to burn injuries on March 26, a martyr who died for trees, Bishnoi organizations staged a demonstration here on Thursday. They submitted a memorandum to the district administration demanding immediate arrest of the accused.
 
 On the other hand, Rajput community, in favour of the accused sarpanch and patwari have been regularly claiming that, both of them are innocent and are being framed under pressure of the community the victim represented and wildlife and environment vigilant Bishnoi community.
 
 Meanwhile, Rajasthan Brahmin Mahasabha has started building pressure for declaring her a martyr and construction of a memorial in her name.
 
 President of the Marwar Rajput Mahasabha, Hanuman Singh said that police have been deliberately framing some persons from Rajput community under political vendetta, .
 
 Similarly, patwaris of the region also warned of agitation, if the accused village patwari in this case, was arrested. They said that the patwari followed the directions of the administration for executing work in the village. They refused to believe that he, along with the sarpanch set Lalita ablaze.
 
 Meanwhile, the police have arrested four persons so far and have been hunting for the other accused, including the sarpanch and patwari, who have been absconding since the incident.
 
 SP ( ), Harendra Kumar said that these four accused arrested last week comprised only one accused, named in the complaint, while 3 others are villagers, not mentioned by the complainant.
 
 "We have been investigating the case and have come to the conclusion that Lalita was not set ablaze by these accused but was forced to take this step as the road in question was illegally being widened and felling of trees at the fence of the agricultural farm," said Kumar. 
 
 
