CHENNAI: Six weeks after taking a suo motu note of a vernacular daily report about a cancerous tumour on an eight-year-old boy’s leg, apparently caused by a   injection, the Madras high court set the record right and said such a cancerous growth was not at all a result of the immunisation injection.

 A division bench of Justice S Nagamuthu and Justice Anita Sumanth, which has ensured that the boy got proper treatment and then made personal visit of the boy at the hospital, said: “Now it has been made clear to us that the cancerous growth on the right thigh of the child in question was not at all as a result of immunisation injection given when the child was hardly four months old.”
 
 On March 21, 2017, a   published an article with a photograph of the boy carrying a big cancerous tumour on his right leg. Besides getting the boy admitted to a Chennai hospital, the bench had directed all officials of health department, including director of public health and preventive medicine, to offer expert opinion. 
 
 It also called for special and expert opinion from the head of the department of oncology, AIIMS, New Delhi, and head of the department of oncology, Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, asking them to explain whether the present condition of the child could have been due to the immunisation injection.
 
 After going through the reports from all experts, which clearly stated that there was no medical literature/evidence to prove that   in the child was caused by immunisation, the bench disposed of the suo motu habeas corpus petition, saying: “In our considered opinion, it is essential for the government to reach out the people through the press and electronic media explaining them that immunisation has got nothing to do with cancer. People should also be informed that from various studies conducted across the world, vaccination protects the children from childhood cancer.”
 
 The judges gave a piece of their mind to the media as well. They said: “Without clarifying the correctness of such apprehension, the Tamil daily has reported as though the cancerous growth was as a result of immunisation injection. The news item will undoubtedly create apprehension in the minds of people that there was at least, a close nexus between immunisation injection and the cause of paediatric cancer. We apprehend that, in future, the people more particularly, innocent, ignorant and remote villagers may be reluctant to take their children to the government institutions on time to immunise them. This will have a disastrous impact on the society.”
 
 
