GHAZIABAD: The crackdown by the state government on illegal slaughterhouses has jeopardised the jobs of many employed in meat shops in Ghaziabad. 

 The precondition of obtaining a licence has directly impacted the livelihood of many workers, who are scared of losing their jobs to the given crisis. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, employees of meat shops complained about the sudden crackdown of the government, which left them unprepared and vulnerable.
 
 Faizan Qureshi (22), a helper in his uncle’s small shop selling chicken and fish in Nyay Khand-1, Indirapuram said, “I don’t know what the government wants. I am a daily wage employee and my uncle pays me Rs 300-400 a day. But since the ban three days ago, we have not had any sale so far. Hence it’s hard for my uncle to pay me money when he is not earning anymore.” 
 
 Faizan further said, “I live in a family of five and I have two younger sisters, my mother and a younger brother. I have not earned more than Rs 200 in the last three days. If the ban lasts, we will not have anything to eat.”
 
 Rashid Ali, another worker affected by the ban, said, “The police came three days ago in the afternoon and suddenly asked us to wind up our produce. We could barely sell of the stock of broiler that we had and at the end, due to the sudden orders, there was a fall in our customer base and a lot of it went to waste.”
 
 The smaller meat shops have witnessed a significant decline in their sales, as the customers are no longer interested in purchasing fish, chicken and mutton from the smaller, roadside sellers. “For the last three days, I have not seen many customers approach us. As for the ones who ask for chicken, we have to send them back empty-handed because we don’t have any,” said Sufiyan Muhammad (19), a meat vendor from Indirapuram.
 
 The meat shopowners have a different ordeal. They are facing the music from two angles. Mohommad Sad, the owner of a slaughterhouse in Nyay Khand-1, told TOI, “I do not own this shop because it is on rent. Being the only big shop in the loacality my business was good, due to which I could easily pay my employees and my landlord. But the ban has left me extremely worried. What if this is permanent? I will be severely indebted,” he lamented.
 
 The government has also issued a warning to the registered meat shops in terms of getting the quality of the produce right and also sell it at a reasonable price. 
 
 While many residents seem unfazed by the ban, there are many others who have expressed their reservations about the sudden shutdown of meat shops without any prior notice. Speaking to TOI, Indira Verma, a resident of Indirapuram said, “This is a nonsensical thing to do. My butcher has lost his only source of income and had to shut down his shop. This is no way of curbing non-vegetarianism, when meat is eaten by so many people in this country.”
 
