PUNE: As many as 189 passengers waiting at the airport had to face hardships on Wednesday after the flight they were supposed to fly in was delayed by more than seven hours because of a snag.

 The   (SG-999) flight landed at Pune from Bengaluru around 6.45am. It was supposed to take off for Delhi at 7.20am.
 
 The outbound passengers had checked into the airport and the security check of most of them was complete. At this juncture, the pilot noticed one of the windshields of the aircraft had developed a crack. The flight was immediately stopped.
 
 “We were waiting to board the flight when the airline officials said the flight had been delayed due to some technical snag. They were not providing information about the take-off. They said the flight was expected to fly around 10am. At 10am, the airline officials suddenly announced that the flight will take off at noon,” R.  , a passenger, said.
 
 Many passengers got angry but the officials did not share details of the snag. “Around 11am, we were told about the nature of the snag. The official concerned said the flight could be delayed more,” Aiyer added.
 
 With the delay testing the nerves of the passengers, around 42 fliers cancelled their tickets and left. A source said many of the passengers were businessmen and important engagements in Delhi.
 
 Entrepreneur  , who was among the passengers, said the airline was not ready to give proper information for a long time.
 
 “I had a meeting at the Prime Minister’s Office at 11am. But seeing the delay, I knew I would not be able to make it. I sent an e-mail to the people concerned about the problem and requested a fresh appointment. The airline’s employees were not giving information and many of them were rude. It was only after the passengers started asking questions that they told us about the problem and provided some refreshments,” Shekhar said.
 
 Around 3.30pm, a   (SG-184) arrived at Pune from Kochi and the passengers were told to board the flight. It left for Delhi at 4pm. The morning flight, which had developed the snag, was sent to Delhi at 5pm.
 
 SpiceJet, in an official statement, said, “A slight crack on the pilot side windshield of the flight SG-999, dated February 22, operating from Pune to Delhi, was noticed while preparing for departure. As standard measure, it was decided to replace the windscreen. The men and material required for replacement were moved from Delhi and Chennai, but as the Pune runway was closed from 8am to 10.30am, the flight carrying spares landed at only 11am.”
 
 It stated, “Some of the passengers have been moved by other airlines’ flights and the rest will be moved by the next scheduled SpiceJet flight. The passengers have been served refreshments and have been accommodated in the airport lounge. Safety is of utmost and primary concern at SpiceJet and we shall always ensure that at no point safety is compromised,” the statement said.
 
