NEW DELHI: While   have continued their reliance on domestic talent but this time around, for Indian Premier League's tenth season, they have packed themselves with fast bowlers and allrounders as well. Will they be able to strike the perfect balance needed to go all the way to a maiden title?

 TOI Sports looks at their latest acquisitions on which they are banking for a turnaround.
 
 
 
 
 South African sensation Rabada is the most exciting fast bowler currently on offer in international cricket. Delhi shelled out Rs 5 crore for him at the auction in February which speaks of the faith that the team has in his express pace. Rarely are fast bowlers the talking points in T20 cricket in India and Rabada, having made his Test debut here, knows it very well. He will shoulder the responsibility of Delhi's strike bowler along with captain Zaheer Khan and Mohammed Shami. In 30 T20s, Rabada has picked up 39 wickets at 21.76.
 
 
 
 
 Cummins recently made his Test comeback after a gap of six years during Australia’s tour of India and impressed with his pace. In two Tests, Cummins took eight wickets including 4/106 in the second innings in Ranchi. After a long absence from the international stage and that too on Indian tracks, that counts for something. Cummins’ last   gig was with Kolkata Knight Riders and he will aim to clock more matches under his belt this time around. He has just four IPL appearances to his name in two seasons and has two wickets to show for. Will we see him bowling in tandem with Rabada? 
 
 
 
 
 The Sri Lankan allrounder returns to Daredevils after being purchased for his base price. He was released last year and went unsold. It looks like Mathews will miss most the season due to a hamstring injury, and considering that the Sri Lankan cricket board wants him fully fit with the Champions Trophy in June, they wouldn't want to risk him. Mathews’ best IPL season was in 2010 when he scored 233 runs and picked up eight wickets for KKR in 14 appearances. In his last season, he played 11 matches, scoring 144 runs and taking seven wickets.
 
 
 
 
 In the absence of Quinton de Kock and JP Duminy, Anderson automatically becomes their top-rated overseas player. He has the second fastest century in ODIs to his name and a career T20 strike-rate of 137.53 and bowling strike-rate of 23.5. His 95 for Mumbai Indians against Rajasthan Royals in an incredible run chase in 2014 is still afresh in the minds and DD would expect more of him this season. In 2017, he has played four T20Is and to his credit has an innings of 94 not out in a 27-run win over Bangladesh. Will Anderson prove to be DD's biggest match winner? 
 
 
 
 
 Mumbai Indians bought Tare for Rs 1.6 crore in 2014 and two years later he went to Sunrisers Hyderabad for 1.2 crore. The price-tag suggest teams have faith in him. The wicketkeeper-batsman is a reliable performer who shot to fame with a six off the last ball for Mumbai against Rajasthan in 2014 which pushed them into the play-offs. Last season, Tare played in just three matches for SRH, scoring just eight runs. The presence of Naman Ojha scuttled his chances. The story might continue this season as well as DD have a good supply of hard-hitting wicketkeeper batsmen. However, their propensity of rotating players opens a window for him, however small it seems as of now. 
 
 
 
 
 An unknown quantity, Singh is a top-0rder batsman who made his T20 debut in April 2015. His one notable performance was in a world T20-warmup match for the Mumbai Cricket Association against South Africa where opening the bat, he hit a 21-ball 29. While in 2017 he didn't get much chances to prove himself, in the one opportunity that came his way, he smashed a match-winning 47 not out against Saurashtra in the Inter State Twenty20 Tournament.
 
 
 
 
 A young Delhi paceman, Saini featured in a tour match for India A against Australia in February earlier this year. He picked three wickets including that of David Warner, Matt Renshaw and Glenn Maxwell in the match. Gautam Gambhir has backed him to the hilt, even confronting Delhi coach KP Bhaskar who had a problem with Saini's selection in the T20 team. In the Vijay Hazare Trophy, he finished with eight wickets from five matches. In a squad tpacked with pacers, it is highly unlikely that Saini will break into the playing XI. Nevertheless, the experience of training with international bowlers and the mentoring of Rahul Dravid will prove invaluable for him.
 
 
 
 
 The legspinner made headlines when his cost shot from 10 lakh to an astronomical 4.5 crore at the 2016 IPL auctions His performance in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy that year earned him that price-tag. He was bought by Rising Pune Supergiant and managed seven wickets in ten matches. A promising performance but he was released for the next season and DD then purchased him for his base price. In the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, he finished with four wickets at an economy of 7.87. While Amit Mishra would be the first-choice spinner, his chances of making the cut are slim.
 
 
 
 
 Just 24, Bawne has the experience of 69 first-class matches and its a reliable performer in all formats. A middle-order batsman, Bawne was Maharashtra's top performer with the bat and the second highest run-getter in the Inter State T20s, hitting 235 runs at 78.33 with three fifties. Form is on his side but he's fifth in the pecking order as far as the domestic Indian batsmen are concerned (Rishabh Pant, Shreyas Iyer, Sanju Samson and Karun Nair being the other four). However, Iyer is down with chicken pox and will miss the initial stage of IPL meaning Bawne has the perfect opportunity to climb up the pecking order.
 
 
