AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court on Monday appreciated the work carried out by the   (AMC) to  , but also pointed out that it should   and mere patchwork will not do. 

 Appreciating the road repairs, a bench headed by Justice M R Shah said, "At present, we appreciate the work carried out so far, which will be ultimately in the larger public interest as well as the corporation also."
 
 Reminding the civic body that instead of indulging in patchwork, AMC should resurface the damaged roads. To AMC's submission on number of roads resurfaced and repaired in such a short span, the HC said, "It is emphasized that what is important is not the number of roads being resurfaced but it should be qualitative also."
 
 From the affidavit filed by AMC, the HC opined that some progress is made in right direction. It further said, "Looking at the area and the number of roads, we can appreciate that some further time might be needed and/or required to resurface the roads in the city , which seems to be a herculean task. However, at present it can be said that the work of resurfacing the roads seems to be in right direction and all serious efforts are being made for resurfacing the roads."
 
 AMC has promised the HC that its vigilance inquiry will not only be limited to transactions and work orders, but on the quality of roads. It promised to furnish certificates issued by its officials for the construction work after some time. It also promised that the defect liability period for the contractors would be increased from the present three years to five years.
 
 AMC told the HC that to make contractors more responsible for quality work, it is going to incorporate new conditions in tenders by which the security deposits would be increased from 5% to 10%, and the amount would be considered as performance guarantee till the expiry of defect liability.
 
 AMC submitted that in last week, it resurfaced 135 roads measuring 23,418 rmts (km) and aims at resurfacing another 122 roads measuring 23,380 rmts in the next week.
 
 The civic body supplied a preliminary inquiry report by vigilance committee to the HC, and said that it has assigned eight more officers for the inquiry.
 
 AMC is asked to place further compliance report on October 4.
 
 
