HYDERABAD: At 9.43 pm on February 22,   could not resist posting a pic on Facebook. “Crazy night here! At Austin's when shots rang out,” he said. The pic was of the road in front of Austin’s Bar and Grill, Olathe, Kansas, US. But what happened inside was an act of bravery amidst mayhem. Linda Allen Kreifels’ comment on FB says it all — Great job Mark! You were at the right place at the right time.

 After Srinivas collapsed after being shot, 57-year-old Mark Hinojosa who was sitting in Austin’s with his family was jolted into action. TOI speaks to former military medic and now pastor about the fateful night.
 
 
 
 I thought the shooter was right up ahead of us and I ran in that direction. I intended to stop, subdue him if possible. I then found Srinivas lying, face up. That is where I stayed.
 
 
 
 
 I felt no fear because God was with me. When shots rang out, I knew I had to do something.
 
 
 
 There were three of us by his side. Vince and Skip and myself. We worked together to stabilize him till paramedics were able to enter the building. As a pastor, my most important role was to pray for God’s peace to surround us. And I wanted Srinivas to know we cared for him. As we tried to help him, I felt a sense of who he was. I said to myself this is a good man. I am so grateful to the other two men who worked alongside me.
 
 
 
 
 I never met him till that night, but consider him my friend and brother. We kept talking to him, but he had lost consciousness. Twice, Vince tried to resuscitate him. Skip held a dressing over the wound. I helped turn him on his side several times, hoping to help him to breathe. I just prayed for God's presence to envelop him and comfort him.
 
 
 
 
 Two things crossed my mind when I looked at him. It was disbelief that Srinivas was dying. I was filled with a sense of goodness of this man. Let me just say that Austin's is a family joint. There were many children present at the time. When we come on Mondays or Wednesdays, we are treated like a family. I'm sure Srinivas felt that too.
 
 You are being appreciated for your act of kindness
 
 I am not a hero. I am a man who cares for people and follows Jesus. Please send my love to his wife if you can. Let her know, we cared for him. Tell her he wasn't alone.
 
 
 
 
 There is goodness and hope here, and all around the world. At last night’s vigil Pastor Derrick said to all people — You are welcome here.
 
