 Bareilly: It was the first case of its kind in the city when a Muslim woman gave talaq to her husband on Thursday. Suhana Bi, 24, said she got married in 2011 at the age of 18 but after having a girl child in 2013 her husband abandoned her in 2015. She alleged that neither did her husband give her ‘mehar’ (alimony) which is mandatory under Sharia nor did he give her any maintenance money. Now, invoking Sharia law, Suhana has sent her husband a ‘talaq-e-tafveez’ (delegated divorce).   At a time when Supreme Court is hearing a batch of cases regarding validity of unilateral triple talaq, the case assumes significance. Few have heard of ‘talaq-e-tafveez’. Throwing light on delegated divorce, Bareilly city Qazi Asjad Raza said, “The practice of talaq-e-tafveez is not very common among Muslims as very few people know about it. Only well-educated people mention it in the marriage contract at the time of the wedding. This is a law under Sharia that protects a woman’s right after her marriage. If talaq-e-tafveez is mentioned in the marriage contract, the husband has no right to give talaq as the right is supposed to be delegated to his wife. In case of a dispute when the woman feels that her marriage has become unacceptable, she can use the method of delegated divorce.”    Narrating her ordeal to TOI, Suhana said, “On March 22, 2011, I got married to Zameer Ahmed of Meerganj tehsil. At the time of my marriage Rs 50,000 was decided as mehar. After my marriage, my in-laws and husband started harassing me for dowry. They mounted pressure on me to ask my parents to give a motorcycle and Rs 1 lakh. When my poor parents couldn’t fulfill their demands, my in-laws started beating me. The level of torture simple increased with time even after two years of marriage when my girl was born. Finally, on May 21, 2015, my husband abandoned me and I now live with my parents.”     Suhana said in her marriage contract, it was mentioned that in case her husband failed to fulfill her needs to live a normal life or subjected her to any kind of cruelty or failed to give her mehar money when she desired, she would be able to call off the marriage by invoking the delegated divorce clause.    Suhana’s counsel, Zuber Ahmed, told TOI, “My client has lodged an FIR against her ex-husband through court under IPC sections 377 (carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any man, woman), 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) in December 2015. Her husband says that he will neither give her a talaq nor will he live with her. In such a situation my client has no option other than to give delegated divorce to him.”