MADURAI: The   State Rural Livelihood Mission ( ) programme has enabled as many as 8,449 people to get   apart from enhancing the livelihood of many others in the past five years. 

 The TNSRLM is implemented in the rural regions for poverty alleviation, where new self-help groups are established, bank loans provided, job melas conducted, skill development training for youth, entrepreneurship programmes for women, and panchayat level committees are given an incentive of up to 1 lakh for co-ordinated efforts and special livelihood programmes for families led by women. 
 
 In Madurai district, the programme is implemented in panchayat unions where village poverty alleviation committee offices are established and funds released for basic training provided to members, training for new self-help groups, loans are provided to individuals, including in differently-abled people.
 
 In the past five years from 2013 to 2017, a sum of 411 lakh was provided to 137 associations including 36 associations in Madurai east block, 38 in   block and 36 in Melur block. In 2014-2015, 98.15 lakh was given to these village poverty alleviation committees as community   fund. 
 
 Also, 17 job camps were conducted under the TNSRLM and Pudhu vazhvu thittam in Madurai in the last five years and 8,449 people have got jobs. K Indira of Othakadai, one of the beneficiaries, said that she never dreamt that she would be earning 15000 after she completed her Plus Two. "I joined the three-month tailoring training programme conducted by the TNSRLM and now have set up my own unit, apart from giving employment to two people. I also earn 15,000 a month," she said. 
 
 Uma Maheswari of Veloothupatti said that she never thought she would work on a computer. Her husband is a driver and they were struggling to maintain the family with his income, when she underwent training for data entry under the programme. "Now, I am earning 7,000 a month and we are able to pay for our children's education without any problem," she said. 
 
 
