Porvorim: Chief minister Manohar Parrikar on Wednesday said his government would outline its   on casinos during the discussion on demands for the home ministry, which is scheduled for Monday. Speaking on the floor of the House, Parrikar indicated that the Public Gambling Act of Goa, Daman and Diu 1976, could be amended to reflect the coalition government’s stand on offshore and onshore casinos.

 “The government’s policy on casinos will be laid before the House during the home demands. The comprehensive policy on casinos will come to you on Monday, so wait till then, and I will give you the exact idea about what I intend to do with casinos. The policy will actually come into the picture because some amendments to the Act may be required, and some rules and regulations will be required,” Parrikar said.
 
 Taking an aggressive stance, the chief minister managed to silence the opposition benches, at times even raising his voice to silence Congress legislators who were spoiling for a fight.
 
 Stung by the disruption in the assembly on Tuesday and the attempts by the opposition to pin down the BJP-led government for its stand on casinos, Parrikar put the Congress on the back foot when he said that the Congress, especially former home minister Ravi Naik, had brought offshore casinos into River Mandovi.
 
 “All six permissions were granted by Ravi Naik when he was the home minister. I am saying on record, all six licenses were issued by him,” Parrikar said and added that he “cannot abdicate on the earlier government’s policies”.
 
 While asserting that he was serious about opposing casinos, the chief minister also pointed out that investor sentiment was vital to the state, which is looking to attract investment.
 
 “Once a person makes an investment (based on policies) it is for the government to ensure that there is continuity in the policies. Investment comes only if you continue with the policies. That means I cannot just throw him out. You made people buy vessels for Rs 150-200 crore and then want me to remove the casinos,” Parrikar said.
 
 
