AHMEDABAD: Six months after leaving Gujarat, to comply with his bail conditions,  , the convenor of   (PAAS) , is set to return. The Patidar organization has prepared to welcome back their agitation spearhead in style. 

 Hardik, who later controlled the agitation from Udaipur in Rajasthan, will be felicitated near the border at Ratanpur and will address a public meeting at Himmatnagar.
 
 Hours before his departure from Rajasthan, Hardik began lambasting the BJP-led Gujarat government and alleged that the state would either eliminate him in an encounter or put behind bars for 14 years. 
 
 “If they (the BJP government) cannot kill me, I may be sent to jail for 14 years. But then when I come out at 36, I will have ample time to serve the community,” Hardik said at a press conference held at his temporary residence in Udaipur, ahead of his departure on Monday.
 
 “Rajasthan home minister   may get me killed in a fake encounter, as he has been asked to do so by Amit Shah. They have here an officer who was an accused in the Sohrabuddin fake encounter case,” Hardik added.
 
 Speaking to ToI, Hardik said, “My only aim is to serve my community and I will make every possible effort for the best interests of my community.”
 
 Back in Gujarat, PAAS teams have started preparations for Hardik’s grand welcome back. Hardik shot into the limelight in August 2015, when he held a large rally of Patidars at the GMDC ground in the city and violence broke out in the state as soon as he was detained after the rally.
 
 Dinesh Bambhania, PAAS co-convener and a close aide of Hardik’s, said: “Hardik will be welcomed by Patidars at the Ratanpur border at around 11am. After that, he will address a public meeting at 2 pm.”
 
 A large number of Patel youth from Rajkot, Surat and Ahmedabad left for Himmatnagar, where Hardik will address his first public rally after his exile ends on Tuesday. The Patidar agitation, which had become dormant in Hardik’s absence, will likely be reignited as state enters election mode.
 
 Top police officials said Patidar-dominated areas will be closely monitored and cops will be deployed in sufficient numbers to avoid any law and order problem. SRP companies have been asked to remain on alert, said sources.
 
