Funny, exasperating, scary and illogical – moms can be all this and more. For comedians, things moms say make for the best material, 'coz 'maa toh sabki ek jaisi hoti hai'.

 I am 5'4" and 100 kg... Punjabi mothers are the most optimistic species on this earth. They are amazing. Like main apni maa ke liye kabhi mota hua hi nahi. I was healthy, pleasantly plump. Horizontally challenged. Ab woh kehti hai, mera beta sooja hua hai," stand-up comic Jeeveshu Ahluwalia says in one of his acts.
 
  
  Jeeveshu in Maa Ka Phone
 
  "Mothers, no matter what part of the world they are from, exhibit the same characteristics, especially Indian mothers. An Indian mother's love for you is directly proportional to whether or not you let her put oil in your hair," goes a crack in stand-up comedian Varun Thakur's video.
 
  We have all heard these things about and from our moms, but when comedians post videos on how Indian mothers behave, they still get lakhs of views. 'Sh**t Punjabi mothers say' by 'Superwoman' Lilly Singh, who has immortalised the Indian mom through her videos, has some seven million views on  . An online search of ‘things Indian mothers say’ brings up hundreds of stand-up comedy videos by different artists. You will also realise that there is hardly any comic who has never cracked a joke on their mother. Comedians tell us that "mummy jokes are always the safest and best bet – there's a thin chance of anyone getting offended and everyone relates to what you say, kyunki maa toh sabki ek jaisi hoti hai!"
 
 
 Jeeveshu, a Delhi-based stand-up comic, has established his USP through acts that are mostly about his conversations with his mother. "The best part is that whatever I say, someone in the audience will have experienced the exact same thing. The connect with the audience is instant when you include your mom in your act," he says. 
 
  Comedian Zakir Khan says that while in the their acts, comics might need to explain the kind of girlfriend, boss or wife they are talking about, they never have to explain when the joke is about mothers. "As a comedian, one might describe ki kaisi girlfriend ya biwi ki baat ho rahi hai, par maa ke case mein toh sawaal hi nahi uthta. Chahe maa duniya mein kahin ki bhi ho, ameer ho ya gareeb ho, they all think the same way and say the same things," says Khan. 
 
  Ssumeir Pasricha aka Pammi Aunty says that it is a combination of characteristics like cute, loving and illogical that makes conversations around mothers interesting. "When Pammi Aunty speaks as a mother, she addresses the insecurity that every mother has. Each mother is possessive and doesn’t really like it when she has to share her time with her son or daughter with someone else, but at the same time, they want their children to get married. Most things that moms do, you just have to describe them in a certain way, and that’s something the audience will remember you for," says Pasricha.
 
  
 "Every Indian mom has a three-second rule. If she asks you to do something, you have three seconds, if you cross that, she will do something unimaginable…she will do it herself!"   says in a routine on mothers. 
 
  
  
  Stand-up comic Kenny Sebastian
 
  "You know you can forget everything about Indian mothers, you can forget her birthday, her anniversary, Mother's Day, but you cannot, and dare not, forget her dabbas," said Varun Thakur in one of his popular acts on Indian moms. 
 
  
  Varun Thakur in Indian Moms
 
  Comedians say that mothers' insecurities with the wife or the girlfriend, their obsession for cleanliness and the sarcasm with which they point out your shortcomings often feature in their acts. "When I talk about my mom, I mostly talk about the situations when you eat out without telling her or compare her food to someone else's mom's," stand up comic Amit Tandon tells us. Neeti Palta, another stand up comedian, adds that apart from "illogical things" like "you better be home by 7 or you don’t come home at all" that her mother tells her, she sometimes also uses her mother's example to say certain things that she can't say herself. "Sometimes, I talk about how we are told 'itne baje bahar mat jao', 'aise kapde mat pehno'. Even though my mother never said all this to me, I still use these in my jokes as many people relate to it," says Neeti.
 
  
  Sumukhi Suresh in Girliyapa's 'Mom Wars'
 
  
 Since Jeeveshu's mother features in most of his acts, we ask him if she knows that she is his main subject. "Are you kidding me? She just has an idea about it. If she comes and attends any of my acts, I'm sure she will start asking for royalty!" replies Jeeveshu. 
 
  Tandon says that his mother is very cool about the mom jokes while he's performing, but once they return home, she makes sure she asks him, "Maine aisa kab kiya hai beta tere saath?"
 
  Neeti narrates an incident from when her mother didn't know how to react, when people around her were going crazy on the jokes her daughter was cracking about her on stage. "I was performing in Bangkok, and my mother was seated in the front row. When I started to speak about her, there was this sardarji sitting behind her, and on everything I said, he laughed so much that he kept knocking over my mother's chair. It was hilarious and my mother didn't know how to react," says Neeti.
 
 
  
  Kenny Sebastian in Indian Parents, OCD and Electricity At Home
 
