CHANDIGARH: For all those who think that Sector 17 is all about   weekends over  , you are probably wrong. The place is a treasure trove for tree lovers. Have you ever paid attention to the Bargad tree that stands tall in the Sector 17 ISBT  ?

 Did you know that the kidney shaped elevations, which houses cluster of trees in front of the DC office, were the part of the Le Corbusier's original plan for the Sector 17 plaza? Many of these unknown facts will no longer remain unheard of now.
 
 Chandigarh Tree Lovers (CTL) in collaboration with the city-based NGO Yuvsatta on Saturday started the docu mentation of important heritage trees in the city. The documentation includes profiling of 30 prominent trees of Chandigarh. The present status and features including species, spread, height, trunk, age and photographic record of these 30 trees will also be created.
 
  This will eventually be turned into a booklet supported by the Chandigarh Administration, which has already agreed to. Founder member of CTL and tree expert   said that such a step will help in keeping a record of C the city's green cover and landscaping besides ensuring their up keep and mainte nance. “We are going to docu ment 30 prominent trees of the city.
 
 The idea is to make people aware about the green heritage of the city. Each of these 30 trees has a history of its own. These trees have been here even before the city came up. These trees are around 250 years old and some are in bad condition.Besides maintaining a record, we want the authorities to maintain them,“ said  , coordinator of Yuvsatta.
 
 After documentation of these trees are done, the forest department of the UT administration will then take up the task of conservation and preservation of these trees. A board with the history of the tree and its specifications will be installed around them. Besides, Sharma said that UT administration has agreed to conduct heritage tours and tree walks to make people aware about the green cover of the city .
 
 Chandigarh's  
 
 Chandigarh Tree Lovers (CTL) is a group formed to discuss ideas and take steps to protect trees of Chandigarh and let people of the city know about the green treasure trove the city has. Despite being one of the greenest cities of India, where each and every tree was planned, the city did not have any interest group to focus on trees of the city. TOI has joined hands with the residents to support the cause of having a group of tree lovers to share and disseminate knowledge about trees of the city
 
