Chennai Metro’s first underground line — Thirumangalam to Nehru Park — was opened to the public recently. Though it was inaugurated only a few days ago, it is already milling with people. Commuters on this   line had a surprise visitor at Anna Nagar East station on Tuesday. Actor  , whose house is just a few metres away, took a ride on the new metro line. 
“This is not the first time I am taking the metro. I used to wear a mask and travel. I have taken the metro many times from Koyambedu to Airport to avoid the city traffic. Now, I can just reach airport in 30 minutes from this station, which is near my home,” he says. 
 
 The actor’s cycling friends — Vijay Kumar, Naga, Prabin, Ravi and Madhan — joined him for this ride. “He used to call us at around 4am for cycling rides. This is the first time, he has called us for a ride in the afternoon,” joked Naga. 
 
 At around 2.45pm, Arya boarded the Metro train. The underground Metro station, including the platform, is completely air-conditioned. One has to get down to three levels to reach the platform. 
 
  
 Arya took the stairs to reach the second level of the station, where one has to buy the tickets. When Arya quizzed about the tickets, the station controller explained, “Underground lines alone work differently when it comes to tickets. One has to buy a rechargeable metro card to commute. This card, which costs around `100, can be recharged at any Metro station; if a user doesn’t plan on using it anymore, the card amount will be refunded.”
 
 After buying the card, the actor underwent a security check and then he took an escalator to go to the platform, which is on the third level. Arya had to wait for four minutes for his train. During this time, he looked at the map to decide his destination. The actor decided to go till Nehru Park, which is three stations away from the Anna Nagar station.
  
 The best part about the underground Metro platform is that it has a locked-door system, which opens only when the train arrives. This has been installed for safety and security purposes. 
 When Arya boarded the Airport-to-Nehru-Park Metro, the passengers were surprised to see a star on board. The thrilled passengers wanted to take a selfie with the star. In fact, he was almost mobbed by his fans, inside the train, and the station controllers had to step in and help the actor settle down.
  
 When he sat down, Arya asked about the manpower that was involved in the construction of the underground metro. Kirubhakaran, manager — operations, who travelled with us, informed, “More than 10,000 workers worked on the construction of the Metro. The drilling of the tunnel alone took almost a year. We were particular that it should be on par with international standards. We are working on the mobile networks and commuters will get that, too, in three months.” 
 
 “I have travelled in the metros in the UK. Ours is no less than theirs. In fact, it is even more beautiful with our people around,” chipped in Arya. 
 
  
 But unfortunately, the actor couldn’t finish his ride till Nehru Park as the train got crowded and he got mobbed for selfies. So, he cut his trip short, and got down at the next station, which is Shenoy Nagar. But he took the Metro again to get back to the Anna Nagar East station. After stepping out of the train, the actor said, “The   is a beautiful thing… I sincerely request everybody to use this facility. During my trip, I could see so many people using it, and I’m happy about it. Once we get full-fledged connectivity, I think ours will be one of the busiest metros. I’m sure it is going to be a huge success.” Bidding goodbye, the actor described the short trip as “good fun.”
 
  
 
