MUMBAI: The state government has been consistently burdening taxpayers by increasing various duty and surcharge to fill its coffers, but it seems it has not been keeping its book of account in order.The   ( ) has raised questions over the state's accountability in spending public money for various works.

 According to the CAG, many departments--including urban development, planning, tribal development, cooperation, marketing and textiles, rural development, and water conservation, revenue and forest--are yet to submit utilization certificates for Rs 63,089 crore grant disbursed over the last two to three decades for various works. Of the Rs 63,089 crore, Rs 27,000 crore “unexplained“ grant was from only 2015-16. Utilization certificates are issued by the guaranteebanking institution after scrutiny of how the money was spent.
 
 “The pendency indicates lack of monitoring of utilization of grants and loans by the state departments. Similarly , major pendency in submission of accounts is visible with higher and technical education department, the school education and sports departments, besides several autonomous bodies including  ,   and state maritime board,“ pointed out a recent report of the CAG. It said many departments have not submitted vouchers for Rs 4,081 crore expenditure after drawing the money from the treasury over the years.
 
 The authority also found that the government had fai led to implement its directives to shut down 20 loss-making public sector units (PSUs).CAG had declared 22 PSUs `non-working', but the liquidation process to wind them down has begun only in case of two PSUs. All 22 PSUs set up with investments worth Rs 938.92 crore, of which Rs 63 crore was spent by the government last fiscal.
 
 The CAG also pointed out that the government had not taken action on 357 cases of misappropriation, defalcation and losses involving Rs 81.69 crore. “What about an excessive expenditure of over Rs 44,000 crore incurred on dams even as the actual irrigation remains unchanged,“ a government source pointed out. Another source said that for several years, state de partments have not respon ded to queries made by CAG demanding action in cases of wasteful and non-billed expenditures. “Thousands of action-taken reports are still pending,“ he said.
 
 Despite its own `unacco untibility', the govern ment continues to bur den taxpayers. Accor ding to experts, sur charge or VAT is usually increased once in two to three years, but the state has hiked cess on petrol twice in 25 days.According to senior state officials, this was done to make up for the revenue loss incurred following withdrawal of liquor licences of bars and wine shops located along highways. Surcharge on petrol is collected to extend relief to farmers as the state coffers are getting empty , said an official. At present, Mumbai pays the highest petrol price--nearly Rs 77litre--in the country . Maharashtra is the only state which collects cess on petrol.
 
