JAIPUR: Congress state president   on Thursday said the party would reconsider its strategy for the 2018-19 elections in the light of its defeat in  . Pilot, at the same time, said Congress did not lose the by-poll to BJP but to the “Rajasthan government”, as the ruling party “massively misused” government machinery.

 The Congress state chief stressed that the Dholpur by-poll victory was neither a reflection of people’s mood in the state nor a vote for development, as was being claimed by chief minister  .
 
 “If it were a vote for development, why did the CM stay in Dholpur even after the election campaign ended? Why she had to camp there, along with all her ministers, after the elections were declared?” Pilot said at a press conference here. He added, “If the BJP had indeed carried out development works in Dholpur, or anywhere in the state, the CM would have been confident of winning the election while remaining in Jaipur and by fielding a BJP worker instead of an outsider. The truth is, in nearly eight-and-half-years of her tenure as a CM twice, she never bothered for Dholpur.”
 
 Alleging misuse of office by the chief minister, the Congress leader said projects worth thousands of crores of rupees were announced just a day prior to March 9 when the by-poll dates were declared. “People were lured and even forced to vote for BJP. Check posts were removed and Bajri mining was opened to all. Police seized tractors of those who did not support BJP. We have evidence and will take up these cases with the election commission,” said Pilot.
 
 On being asked if he still stood by his pre-poll statement that   will be a referendum on the Raje-government, Pilot said, “All elections are a referendum. But if BJP thinks one victory, which was massively government managed, reflects the mood of people in the state, it is mistaken.”
 
 The Congress state chief countered claims that the party lost because it had been promoting just one Dholpur family, that of its candidate Banwari Lal Sharma, for past several decades. “BJP candidate is wife of ex-MLA, so why did the ruling party go for that family only while overlooking its own party workers? Our candidate had won few elections in past and had even defeated the ‘Maharani’ (Raje) once, so we believed he would easily defeat the ‘Rani’ (Shobharani),” Pilot said.
 
