Dubbed the giant killer in Indian  ,   HS Prannoy came agonisingly close to an all-Indian final at the Indonesia Open Grand Prix a few months ago before he fell short. In a similar setting on Sunday in California, the 25-year-old Malayali defeated his compatriot Parupalli Kashyap in a hard fought final to win his maiden   title and also finally conquer the “demon of inconsistency” that has been hounding him for the last 18 months.

 Hours after clinching his third Grand Prix Gold, the World No. 23 talks to us about his strategy for the tournament, the golden run of Indian shuttlers and more…
  
 
 It was a good tournament for me. I grew in confidence with each match and I felt happy just to reach the final. And facing Kashyap made it all the more great because he beat a lot of good players to reach the final. Winning the hard-fought match doubles the joy.
 I had two weeks of preparation in Hyderabad before I headed to Canada Open Grand Prix earlier this month. I had a few nagging injuries in Canada and the lack of a physio or proper facilities didn’t bode well for me in that tournament. However, the conditions in the US Open Grand Prix were more suitable. I could adapt well and I am glad I could finish on a high.
  
 
 I have always had that feeling of wavering. But this time, I made sure I remained disciplined. Even when the games stretched to the third set, I focused on the moment and didn’t let thoughts of what the ultimate result would be distract me. For the final too, my focus was on winning each point than the match itself. I think that’s what worked in my favour.
  
 
 Of course. Of late, I have made it to the last eight, which itself is tough but it’s been close to one and half years since I won a major tournament. So this victory is definitely a boost for me. However, I am not taking anything for granted. I can’t afford to relax and I am hoping I can take this form to the next tournament in New Zealand, for which I would be leaving tomorrow.
  
 
 All of us – be it Kashyap, Kidambi Srikanth or Sai Praneeth – we are all professionals. That’s one of the reasons why the men’s division has seven Indian players fighting it out to be the best. There’s obviously competition among us but we don’t let what happens on the court affect us when we are off it. After the match, Kashyap and I had a chat about how the game was played, what went wrong and areas where we both could improve. When you have such a chilled out relationship off court, there’s not much pressure even while you are playing each other.
  
 
 This year has been exceptional for Indian players, especially the last six months. But this is just the start of something really good. All of us are focused on being consistent and take this winning run forward. 
 
