CHANDIGARH: If experts are to be believed there is nothing for parents and students to worry about regarding delay of CBSE Class XII results as the mark sheets are not required any time soon, in case of those appearing in competitive exams. Those looking forward to admission in universities that do not hold an entrance exam, like  , will require class XII results, but that too next month. In most cases prospectus are released only after results are declared. According to experts, the result in any case should not be delayed by more than 10-15 days.

 Dr Arvind Goyal, a city-based academician, said, "Undergraduate courses where admission is based on Class XII result will get delayed. Even   applications for admissions to courses based on Class XII results have opened from May 22."
 
 B K Vermani, dean (admissions), DAV College-10, said the delay in Class XII results would not affect the admission schedule as the results were usually declared around this time of the year. "We will release our prospectus only after the results are declared," he added. "There is stress and anxiety among parents and children. Many state board results are out and Delhi University has started giving the application forms for admission. If CBSE result is delayed, seats in popular courses may fill up and students will have to suffer," said  , principal of Ajit Karam Singh International Public School in Sector 41.
 
 This year Class XII holds no weightage in join entrance exams, which is a major relief for the students.
 
 Rushil Gupta, a JEE (mains) topper from Chandigarh, said, "There are speculations as to what will be the result. But as it has no weightage in any entrance exam like   and NIITs, it will not have a major impacthowever, for counselling there is a requisite of a minimum percentage in Class XII that is the main worry. But this happens after result of JEE is declared and there is time for it. CBSE shouldn't declare the result soon." 
 
 Officials from CBSE office in Panchkula said they had not received any information about declaration of the result from the board's Delhi office.
 
 CBSE had decided to do away with moderation policy (practice of giving grace marks) this year
 
 However, on Tuesday the Delhi HC prohibited the board from scrapping it to evaluate classes X and XII students this year 
 
 It is said that CBSE plans to move the Supreme Court against HC decision
 
 Though there are talks that result is expected in 2-3 days, there is no confirmation from CBSE
 
