Cupid’s arrow works best when fired with a  .

 You could look fetching in that DP, launch a thousand likes with every post, or flaunt an Instagram feed that looks like a Lonely Planet guide but the quickest way to a person’s heart is through a native quality that you either naturally have or don’t — the ability to draw a smile.
 
 A pre-Valentine’s Day survey conducted by US-based   app Tinder among its Indian users dispels the notion that men and women (of Mars and Venus lineage!) think very differently when it comes to choosing a partner.
 
 If the preferences of both groups are to be rated collectively, sense of humour is the most desirable quality in a prospective partner, followed closely by shared interests. The survey was conducted for a week, on the  , and taken by 15,000 users across India. It did not have an age specification but most respondents were between 18 and 35.
 
 Women are also more likely to be attracted to a person who is well-read and can make good, intelligent conversation. The category, ‘well-read/intelligent’, was the third most preferred attribute in a prospective partner among women with 22.9% respondents voting for it after ‘sense of humour’ (24.5%) and ‘shared values and interests’ (24%). “I think it is really important that I am with someone who can make me laugh during good and bad times and that is why sense of humour becomes a very important trait in men,” said a 26-year-old woman who took part in the survey. She did not wish to be named.
 
 Men, though, will still lose their wits to a pretty face but the attraction could prove to be an ephemeral one if there is no wit in the romance. Most voted for ‘good looks’ as the top draw (30.6%) but that was no runaway winner as ‘sense of humour’ finished a close second (25.2%), followed by ‘shared values and interests’ (24.1%). ‘Intellect’, surprisingly, did not figure in the top three among men.
 
 “The results of this survey were certainly interesting,” Taru Kapoor, head of Tinder India, which is based in Gurgaon, told TOI. “We are often asked how men and women differ in their behaviour and preferences in online dating, But we’ve now found that men and women value the same characteristics in a partner.”
 
 Taru felt this was quite a revelation for people who are seeking to forge meaningful connections online. The Tinder India app saw a 20% increase in traffic in the run-up to  .
 
 The survey also shed some light on how Indian men and women see their ideal first date. The top preference for men (30.2%) is doing something low-key or causal as opposed to eating or drinking out (should we blame service tax?). Women, on the other hand, prefer a wine-and-dine first date (32.6%) but doing something low-key is also good (30.8%). This is followed by learning something new together (men, 27.7% and women, 22%).
 
 
