LUCKNOW: With barely 12 days left to the scheduled public opening of Lucknow Metro as promised by the  , it is highly unlikely for the   (LMRC) to follow all the lengthy procedures and take the necessary approvals in the limited time frame. 

 Though officials are keeping mum over the possible delay, there is a high likelihood of Metro missing its March 26 deadline to commence commercial operations because of two reasons — seeking approval of RDSO and that of the commissioner of Metro Railway Safety and the team has to wait till the new government is in place to take the chief minister’s approval. 
 
 Though RDSO (Research Designs & Standards Organisation) is done with the testing part, preparation of draft report, getting feedback on same and preparing final speed certificate of Lucknow Metro would take at least 14 days, that too only if the RDSO team bucks up. A senior RDSO official told TOI, “There is so much data to tabulate that it will not take less than a week. Around 200 types of data is recorded every second and we have to prepare a second-wise data analysis of almost 30 sensors installed at different places.”
 
 Once the data analysis is over, RDSO will prepare a draft report and submit it to various directorates for feedback. “A week’s time is given to the directorates for approving the report which may take longer in case they find a problem. Once we receive feedback, we would take about 4-5 days to compile inputs and furnish a final speed certificate to the LMRC,” the RDSO official added. After RDSO, LMRC’s major task will be to seek approval from the commissioner of Metro Railway Safety. 
 
 Generally, the commissioner takes around 15 days to 2 months for approval, depending on the preparedness of the project. An LMRC official said, “We are trying our best to meet the deadline, but the impact of the changes in current political scenario cannot be ruled out. We are pushing the RDSO to prepare the certificate soon.”
 
 LMRC said it had invited the chief commissioner of Railway Safety once during trials to see the project’s readiness so that he didn’t take much time during actual inspection. Officials said, “Since he is already introduced to the project, he might take 5-6 days for handing us approval.”
 
