BENGALURU: The   terminal may give way to a glitzy commercial mall, with finance minister Arun Jaitley proposing to monetize assets belonging to the   (AAI). 

 Sources said the budget proposal to amend the AAI Act to enable authorities to monetize land resources is a precursor to the procedure for commercial exploitation of terminal buildings of airports closed for passenger flights. As such, HAL Airport in Bengaluru and Begumpet Airport in Hyderabad are in focus. Officials said one of the proposals being considered is to turn these terminal buildings into commercial malls through private partnership. Another idea is to lease out office and commercial spaces in these buildings.
 
 Sources said the ministry of civil aviation had already taken a details from the AAI’s Bengaluru office on the extent of land, terminal building and other properties at HAL Airport, and a plan is being worked out. 
 
 “We have given a report on properties we own in Bengaluru to our southern headquarters. The monetization exercise includes 50,000 acres across the country. However,at this point I cannot talk about the exact plan for HAL Airport terminal, and land in the surrounding area,” said S K Swami, general manager, AAI, Bengaluru. 
 
 Swami said the AAI owns a land parcel that was acquired for parking space, but the main property is the terminal building. “There’s no clarity as yet. We are waiting for clear instructions from the higher-ups,” added Swami.
 
 The plan for commercial exploitation of the terminal building, however, is likely to face security hurdles as the runway belongs to HAL (Hindustan Aeronautics Limited) and is being used for military flying, test flights, chartered and VIP flights. Moreover, HAL is still in favour of reopening the airport for commercial flights, in which case a mall at the terminal building won’t be feasible.
 
 “The terminal building belongs to AAI. But, I hope they’ll consult us before embarking on any plan regarding the terminal or any part of the airport,” said P Saravanamoorthy, chief manager of HAL.
 
 A petition filed by HAL seeking reopening of the airport for commercial operations is pending before the Competition Commission of India (CCI).
 
 HAL Airport was closed after the Bangalore International Airport (BIA) was commissioned in 2008; the closure was in accordance with the concession agreement signed between the ministry of civil aviation and Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL). The concession agreement stipulates that no other airport should be allowed for commercial operations within 150km radius of BIA. 
 
 A petition filed by the Airports Authority of India Employees Union (AAIEU), seeking reopening of the HAL Airport was dismissed by the Supreme Court. 
 
 “The government’s plan to monetize HAL Airport terminal won’t be proper, given that a case is pending before the CCI. The government should at least wait for the final verdict,” said B C Thiruvengadam, senior advocate, who appeared for AAIEU at the Supreme Court.
 
 PSU INCURRED HUGE LOSS
 
 Till 2002, HAL Airport was meant for domestic flights, after which it was upgraded to an international airport at a cost of Rs 200 crore. However, the airport was shut in six years of it being developed into an international airport. HAL, in an affidavit filed before the hight court in the AAIEU case, has submitted that the PSU had incurred a loss to the tune of Rs. 1,200 crore till July 2015 because of the airport’s closure.
 
