GURUGRAM: Jyoti (25) starts her day early. She leaves home by 4.30 am and heads for villages, where her job is to discourage people from defecating in the open. 

 Jyoti is a volunteer working with the government to spread awareness. And while governments are keen to declare cities   free, experiences of volunteers on the ground show that is no easy label to affix to a place when one is dealing with not just logistical complexities but also a mindset. This also explains the difference between a place being labelled ‘open-defecation free’ and the ground reality. 
 
 More than 100 ‘swachhagrahis’, as these volunteers are called, are regularly visiting slums and rural areas in the district to educate people against open defecation. Jyoti says morning is the right time for the campaign as one can spot many people going out to   with bottles in their hands. The conversations, she says, are rarely easy. She recalls how sometimes people argue and say ‘hum to khule mein shauch karenge (we will defecate in the open)’.
 
 Jyoti says the desire to have a clean country someday is what keeps her going. She works in the area around   and Gwal Pahari.
 
 “Most people start arguing and demand that the government build them a toilet. They can afford mobile phones, televisions and cable connections but won’t build a toilet themselves,” says Sunil, a government official who works as a volunteer in areas under ward number 32.
 
 MCG officials say the volunteers come from all strata of society and include changemakers,   members and even corporate executives.
 
 Over the last month, thousands of people have been educated under the campaign in Gurgaon. MCG started the campaign by identifying 60 areas in the city where open defecation was prevalent and forming teams to tackle the problem areawise.
 
 Rakesh Dayal, a 58-year-old retired government officer, says he gets immense happiness from his morning rendezvous with people in the slums. He works as a volunteer in Sikanderpur, Gwal Pahari and neighbouring areas. He says that people do argue but sometimes, they have valid arguments.
 
 “In the slum areas, people complain of non-availability of toilets. Where there are toilets, they aren’t clean. I remember a person from Sikanderpur village telling me that if they had clean toilets and sufficient water, who would prefer defecating in the open?” says Dayal.
 
 He adds that wherever they find dirty toilets, they take the matter up with the authorities. Most volunteers believe that the government needs to ensure access to clean toilets and sufficient water supply.
 
 Anu Sheokhand, MCG joint commissioner and nodal officer for the campaign, agrees with the volunteers and says that for a few people, resistance to change is normal, but the lack of toilets is a reason forcing people to defecate in the open.
 
 “The working class, for instance, lives in areas where there are only three toilets for 100 people. This forces people to defecate in the open. However, many people, especially, women and young girls get the message early when you bring in the dignity angle,” says Sheokhand.
 
 She says at many places, including  , portable toilets have been installed by the government or landlords or owners. 
 
 Officials from the district administration have also been working on ODF Gurgaon. However, given the lack of community toilets and a large labour population, the city has way to go before it is open defecation free.
 
