MUMBAI: Suspended army officer  , an accused in the 2008   case who is seeking bail, on Wednesday submitted through his counsel a number of letters of appreciation from his superiors in the army and even the  , whose jurisdiction covered Malegaon, for his valuable work as an army intelligence officer. His counsel   said, “It is most disheartening for him that despite doing the toughest work of getting evidence against jihadi activities as an intelligence officer, he is being branded a terrorist.”

 Arguing before a bench of Justices Ranjit More and Shalini Phansalkar Joshi, Shivade said that as an intelligence officer, Purohit associated with co-accused and anti-nationals to get information for the army. “The Anti Terrorism Squad has fabricated the case against Purohit and is unwilling to accept his story. The National Investigation Agency, too. This is a desperate attempt to call for documents from the court of inquiry which show that he was doing his job in gathering intelligence against terror outfits,’’ said Shivade. He said Purohit was working not only in Jammu and Kashmir but also in Mizoram and read out a note where his work in getting information on a “hardened terrorist in Mizoram’’ was commended. The then Nashik police chief, Himanshu Roy, had expressed his gratitude “for sharing vital information’’ which helped the police detect terror related crime, he said.
 
 Shivade argued before the court that Purohit is the “one of the most successful intelligence officers of the Indian Army and in the past he has gathered information about SIMI and Naxals for Indian Army based on which several successful operations have been carried out. He also argued that the first rule of gathering intelligence is to infiltrate in those groups and become one of them because ‘to gain their confidence and get information from those kinds of people you need to be one of them’. “I (Purohit) associated myself with co-accused, anti-nationals, to get info for the Indian Army,” he further said.
 
 Advocate Shivade reiterated that Purohit had been duly informing his then superiors about his activities but still he was made an accused in the case. Purohit, through his counsel, produced a copy of the court of inquiry conducted by the army to prove he was informing his superiors of all meetings, which ATS has claimed were conspiracy meetings, and also who attended those. 
 
 Purohit’s lawyer’s arguments are expected to get over on Thursday.
 
 
