PUNE: Over 35,000 applications have been received for over 15,000 seats available in schools to fill the   under the   Act, 2009. Thursday is the last day to fill the forms.

 In schools where the number of applications is more than the number of seats available, seat allocation will be done through a draw of lots, said officials. There are about 849 schools in the district accepting students under the RTE.
 
 However RTE activist   said that this time too, the process was marred by confusion due to lack of publicity on part of the local body and government regarding RTE admission. “While the number of applications is more, actual admissions will be only up to 50%,” he said.
 
 Many problems too remain unsolved, said Kirdat. “Parents have complained about at least four schools which have not got any recognition from the education department. When the parents went and enquired about the UDISE (Unified District Information System for Education) number of the school, they came to know that the schools were not recognised. These schools charge hefty fees from parents of students studying there. Despite filing complaints last year against these schools, nothing has been done,” said Kirdat.
 
 When asked about the claim by some city schools that they had recently been accorded linguistic minority status, and thus would not participate in the RTE process, Mushtaq Shaikh, Education officer   said, “They should have the certificate of minority status with them. Otherwise, we will not consider their minority status as valid and they will have to implement RTE in admissions to their entry level classes.”
 
 When asked about schools which had not registered themselves on the RTE portal, Shaikh said, “We had already sent them a notice 15 days ago. Now we will take action against them within two days. We had sent a committee to verify their claims.”
 
 As per the government resolution of January 10, derecognition is the punishment for schools that refuse to register themselves, despite being eligible. RTE is applicable to all private and non-minority schools and 25% of the entry level seats need to be reserved for students belonging to socially, physically and economically disadvantaged classes. Such students will also get free education from entry level classes, pre-primary or standard I till standard VIII.
 
