BHOPAL/INDORE: Saffron supporters booed   when he and Sunny Leone passed by Ratlam railway station on the August Kranti Express in the wee hours of Tuesday, even as BJP leader national general secretary   kept up his barrage of tweets at Rahul Gandhi and, apparently, SRK’s soon-to-be released ‘Raees’.

 ‘Raees’ clashes with the release of Hrithik Roshan’s ‘Kaabil’ on Republic Day. Two days ago, without naming  , Vijayavargiya tweeted: “Jo   desh ka nahin, woh kisi ka nahin… Aur ‘Kaabil’ desh bhakt ka saath hum sab ko dena chaiye’ (A Raees (wealthy) who couldn’t be of his own country is of no good…. We all should support ‘Kaabil’ (worthy) who is patriotic).”
 
 He followed it up with a more pointed barb on Monday night: “Kaabil ho to chaiwala bhi Pradhan Mantri ban jata hai, varna chandi ka chammach muh main lekar paida hua ‘Raees’ bhi phate kurte pahanta hai (If someone is Kaabil (worthy) then a tea seller can also become Prime Minister, otherwise a ‘Raees’ (wealthy), born with a silver spoon, wears a torn kurta).” He posted a photograph of pm Narendra Modi and Rahul Gandhi with his torn ‘kurta’.
 
 And then another on Tuesday: “Our country’s ‘Kaabil’ is better than the ‘Raees’ of other country.”
 
 As if taking cue, activists of Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM) were waiting at Ratlam station when SRK arrived on his way to Delhi on a promotional tour of ‘Raees’. As the train chugged into the station at 2.20am, saffron workers shouting slogans against SRK, protesting against the death of a fan at Vadodara a few hours earlier.
 
 Khan, who was in A5 coach with Sunny Leone, refrained from meeting his fans at the station, further enraging them. Some people threw shoes at the coach, giving the GRP a tough time although they were out in full force.
 
 This is not the first time that Vijayavargiya has tweeted against King Khan. On November 3, 2015, when the entire country was debating intolerance, Vijayavargiya tweeted: “Shahrukh Khan rehte hain Bharat mein hain par unka man Pakistan mein rahta hai. Unki filmein yahan karoro kamati hain par unhe Bharat asahishnu nazar aata hai (SRK lives in India but his mind is in Pakistan. His movies make crores here but he sees India as intolerant).”
 
 Reacting to Vijayavargiya’s latest barbs, Congress said that the country doesn’t need a certificate of patriotism from BJP. “Kailash Vijayavargiya is calling one dishonest and anti-national while supporting the other. No one needs a certificate of patriotism from Vijayavargiya. In fact, all those films he had attacked earlier were declared tax free by the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh,” said Congress state spokesperson K K Mishra.
 
 Incidentally, Vijayavargiya’s first ‘Raees’ tweet hit the social media on the same day that chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced the Aamir Khan-starrer ‘Dangal’ tax-free.
 
 The BJP has officially distanced itself from Vijayavargiya's tweet. Party leaders refused to comment on it, saying it was his personal view.
 
 
