For those looking for it, help will now be just a gallop away. After Cheetahs and Hoysalas, the city police will now have Bungee Dancer, Locked Away, Resham and Thoran on patrol. These four horses from the stables at City  , Mysuru Road, will join the city patrol team on Thursday.

 The horses and their riders in reflective gear will patrol Commercial Street, Brigade Road and   from 3 pm to 9 pm to assist the public on certain days of the week. The Bengaluru police are also planning to have a full-fledged mounted police company on the lines of their counterparts in Mysuru city in the near future.
 
 “We will be deploying these mounted patrolmen in their designated spots on specific days, depending on the number of people in given areas. They have been instructed to help pedestrians or anyone who approaches them for assistance,” said Praveen Sood, Bengaluru City Police Commissioner.
 
 
 As of now, a four-member mounted patrol squad will be deployed at Commercial Street on Tuesdays and on Brigade Road on Thursdays. They could be spotted in Cubbon Park on Saturdays and Sundays. The city police chief said the initiative was aimed at ensuring quick and effective response to citizens in public spaces.
 
 As of now, the police stables at the CAR facility have five horses, but only four of them have been selected for city patrol squad as the fifth one is over 15 years old. The horses will be transported to their patrol areas in horse floats (vehicles used for transporting horses) from their stables. There are proposals for making alternate stable facilities for the horses in the coming months.
 
 The Bengaluru police are also looking to increase the total number of horses from five to 11 in the coming days. The additional horses are expected to be brought from the Mysuru mounted police company.
 
 Apart from the mounted personnel, the city police have also charted a schedule as per which its specialised vehicles, including the Vajra water jet vehicle and armoured cars, would be parked on standby mode on designated spots.
 
