BENGALURU: After throwing in the towel in the title race, defending champions   would now be looking to work on fresh strategies aimed at bolstering their   Cup campaign when they take on I-League trophy contenders Aizawl FC at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium on Sunday.

 Coach Albert Roca, who would have managed to soothe nerves with two consecutive victories in the continental competition, hinted that he would be testing the bench strength again, which meant resting the top players and getting more youngsters into the playing XI.
 
 "All the games that we play from now on will be important for us. We know that we can't win the title again but we have important goals ahead and the only way to achieve those goals is by doing well in the I-League," Roca said.
 
 "I would like to give opportunities to our young players as I did against  . The result is important tomorrow but the performance is even more crucial. But if you are looking at the Federation Cup and AFC Cup then you have to improve," he said. "We have a debt to our supporters and we have to do everything to make them happy against a side looking to win their first title."
 
 In the match against Bagan, which   lost 0-3 in Kolkata, Roca rested skipper Sunil Chhetri and gave the season's first start to Malsawmzuala. The Spaniard had also left out   and Serbian striker Marjan Jugovic. It is expected to be a similar starting line-up on Sunday, with the team missing the services of injured defenders   and Rino Anto.
 
 
 
 
 While BFC is analyzing what went wrong, their opponents Aizwal would be looking to make the most of Blues' lack of focus. But when asked about his team's title chances, coach Khalid Jamil was clearly not interested. "Our focus is on tomorrow's game. We are not thinking about anything else," the former   coach said.
 
 Starting Sunday, it would be four tough games for the Mizo team, with only one home fixture scheduled against Bagan on April 22. They need to add up few points on road against Bengaluru and   (Apr 15) if they have to go all out to topple Bagan at home.
 
 It will be an early start at the Sree Kanteerava on Sunday as the prime time goes to the Kolkata derby between Bagan and  .
 
 
 In Bengaluru: Bengaluru FC vs Aizawl FC (4.30 pm, Live on TEN Network)
 
 
 Mohun Bagan vs East Bengal (7 pm, Live on TEN Network)
 
 
  DSK Shivajians: 2: (Milan Singh 58, Bhumji 63) lost to Shillong Lajong: 3 (Vanmalsawma 14, Lalmuanpuia 53); 
 Mumbai FC: 0 drew Churchill Brothers: 0; 
 Minerva Punjab FC: 0 lost to Chennai City FC: Soosairaj 41, Charles 90).
 
