LUCKNOW: “I have your letter of October 7. I gladly agree to the suggestion made in it and convey to you my acceptance of the membership of   which the union was good enough to offer me.“

 The letter from the Prime Minister's office,  ,  , ends with these words. Signed by then-PM Jawahar Lal Nehru, it is an acceptance of the   of Lucknow University Union (LUU) by him. The next step was to adorn a register with his signature.
 
 Like Nehru, several other prominent leaders such as Lal Bahadur Shastri, Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan, Jai Prakash Narain, Morarji Desai and Indira Gandhi were awarded the union's lifetime membership.
 
 The register which contains the signatures of all these dignitaries is part of LU's rich history . To preserve the heritage, it will be digitised and uploaded on LU's website.
 
 “LU followed the tradition of awarding honorary memberships to eminent public figures from 1961 to 2005 till the students' union was active. The first such person to accept the membership was the first PM, Jawahar Lal Nehru. The last signature on the register is that of national president of Samajwadi Party and former CM Akhilesh Yadav,“ said Prof NK Pandey , LU spokesperson and senior librarian of the union.
 
 The tradition was started by LU's students' union through a resolution in 1961. It was acknowledged by LU's executive council and the invitation was sent to `Panditji' by the then vice chancellor AV Rao, in his capacity as the patron of the union. Nehru came down to LU to accept the honour. Since then, 17 personalities till 2005 have been honoured by the union. While some actually visited the campus for the reception, others sent an acknowledgement by post. The register also bears the signature of the second Prime Minister, Lal Bahadur Shastri, who visited LU to inaugurate the union for that year on November 19, 1964.
 
 In 1970, then-PM Indira Gandhi was awarded membership for her administrative capabilities. She visited LU in 1974 to attend a function.
 
 Gandhian socialist ideologue and freedom fighter Jai Prakash Narain also visited LU in 1974 soon after he launched the social transformation movement called Total Revolution in Bihar and was conferred the membership on August 25, 1974, for his contribution to society and politics.
 
 Recalling the golden era of the student union, former LUSU president (1958-59) Jagdish Gandhi said that when he had won the LUSU elections, he and his wife had requested Nehru to inaugurate the union.
 
 “Then VC Prof KAS Iyer could not believe that the PM was coming to the university to inaugurate the union. It was only after I presented the letter received from the PM office that they believed us,“ said Gandhi, the founder manager of the City Montessori School chain. He recalls how the then Canning College arts quadrangle was jam-packed with students and teachers to get a glimpse of the PM. From the stage, he addressed students and said: “Don't be proud of coming to power by winning students' union elections. Use this power for promoting healthy academic activities, organise lectures, debates and seminars.“
 
