The capital city is set to embrace the green protocol for its prestigious religious festivals —   and  . 

 The 11-day Uroos festival at Beemapally Dargah Shareef will begin on February 28, while Attukal   will be held from March 3 to 12. To make the festivals eco-friendly, the city corporation is working closely with the religious institutions.
 
 
 
 Say goodbye to plastic bags, cups and plates during this festival season. The religious institutions have started strict surveillance and cleaning practices to make sure that plastic is not part of the festival at all.
 
 The Uroos, which will have a procession, prayer and feast on its concluding day, is expected to see the participation of more than 10,000 people. To make it a plastic-free event, the Jamaat authorities in association with the corporation has earmarked the mosque and its premises under green zone.
 Sajena, councillor of Beemapally East, says, “Corporation will distribute free steel utensils for the devotees to prepare food during their stay inside the mosque premises. On the festival days Jamaat and corporation staff will increase surveillance and will make sure that devotees are not polluting the area with non-biodegradable items and food waste.”
 
 Meanwhile, Attukal Bhagavathy Temple Trust secretary, K Shishupalan Nair says that the Pongala festival too will follow the green protocol regulations. “We have notified the devotees through the festival book and advertisement boards about the strict ban of plastic in and around the temple premises. The Pongala is performed within 10 km area around the temple. So we have made it very clear that instead of plastic and Styrofoam, devotees should use steel plates and cups provided by the corporation, temple authorities and independent groups.” The civic body has also asked the voluntary organisations and individuals who distribute food and water to the devotees to refrain from using disposable glasses and paper. “Instead steel tumblers and plates will be distributed to the devotees,” says Shishupalan Nair.
 
 
 
 Banning of plastics is not the only measure the authorities have taken to implement the go-green scheme. The Attukal temple trust has decided to distribute cloth bags from the temple prior to the festival to the followers who throng in. Trivandrum Mayor VK Prasanth says, “We are making an attempt at managing waste in a scientific manner after the Pongala and Uroos. The waste will be segregated into biodegradable and non-biodegradable ones. While the plastic will be send for recycling through the waste management agents, the civic authority will handle the bio-degradable waste. If the devotees could bring a steel plate and glass along with their Pongala kits and for the feast of the Uroos, the mission could be a huge success. Last year through sponsorship from individuals and various groups, we were able to distribute more than 10,000 steel plates and cups to Attukal devotees. But it was not a success during the Uroos. As the civic body has strictly prohibited the use of plastic from March 1, the festivals should also practice the same.” 
 
 To encourage devotees to stick to the plan, the corporation has also announced awards for the best five individuals or groups who practice 100% green protocol during the Pongala festival.
 
 To increase the green cover the Jamaat officials plan to plant saplings around the mosque. The general secretary of the Jamaat, M C Najumudeen says, “To keep the compound clean and tidy we are planning to plant trees and develop a garden as a part of Uroos arrangements.”
 
 
 
  It isn’t an easy affair to eliminate plastic completely from the city and according to the Mayor, religious festivals can act as a tool for green awareness. “Both these prestigious festival see a massive public participation. These can serve as the right place to spread awareness on going green and avoid plastics. We plan to set green protocol to all the festivals and events including the Vettucaud Church Feast. ”
 
