The face of a locality once famous for its lush green fields full of vegetables changed with farmers coming together and pooling land to develop Magarpatta City — boasting of world class infrastructure and attracting IT companies. But beyond the Magarpatta model, Hadapsar is finding it hard to catch up with the infrastructure demands of rising population and shed its “negative” image.

 Citizens blame the “apathy” of the civic administration towards the area for the bad name to Hadapsar. Politicians, on the other hand, are busy debating if it should have a separate municipal corporation for development.
 
 Major parts of Hadapsar became a part of the city limits in 1950. The remaining part of the erstwhile village was merged in 1997. But the development of Hadapsar gained momentum after Magarpatta City was developed. Today, it has become one of the busiest places of the city.
 
 “There are IT companies, big housing societies and employment opportunities. But at the same time, Hadapsar is getting chaotic. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is treating it as a garbage dump yard. It has become an experimentation ground – be it the failed Bus Rapid Transit System, wrong designing of roads and flyovers or stinky garbage processing units,” says Sayaji Patil, a local youth.
 
 Local corporator and   leader Chetan Tupe echoes Patil. “In the past 10-15 years, Hadapsar has developed rapidly. But the civic administration is keen on introducing all failed projects here and bring bad name to the locality. More garbage processing units are being planned here. Why Hadapsar and not Kothrud?” he asks.
 
 He disagrees with the   leaders’ demand for a separate municipal corporation for Hadapasar, though. “The new corporation will get grade ‘B’ or ‘C’ status, meaning little funds.,” says Tupe.
 
 Former mayor Rajlaxmi Bhosale says, “There are infrastructure problems. But Hadapsar has its auditorium, civic hospitals, open spaces and good roads. Hadapsar will develop only in Pune limits.”
 
 In contrast, Hadapsar MLA Yogesh Tilekar insists that the new municipal corporation would give more power to local leaders and Hadapsar would develop in its own speed. 
 
 Citizens are not interested in political wrangles. “A 24-metre wide DP Road from   to   is still pending. Flyovers have failed to provide solution to the traffic congestion,” says Kalika Joshi, a college student.
 
 Citizens feel that Hadapsar has the potential to become the next IT hub, but PMC must create infrastructure everywhere.
 
