NEW DELHI: Delhi's   chief minister   just cannot stop tweeting and commenting about the Election Commission (EC) criticizing him last Saturday for "asking Goa voters to accept bribes." That's because he finds its criticism illogical.

 He tweeted about it again today, in reply to party colleague Ashutosh's saying that he witnessed a car distributing money to the poor in Cumbarjua in Goa, which goes to the polls on February 4.
 
 First, Ashutosh said: 
 
 
  
  . 
 
 To which Kejriwal replied: 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 To recap, explain and elaborate on the issue: The EC is annoyed with Kejriwal because he told voters in Goa to take bribes from those political parties that are offering it, but vote only for AAP. He also told the voters to ask for Rs 10,000 when offered Rs 5,000 by workers of rival parties and to accept only new currency notes. 
 
 The EC said that was an exhortation from Kejriwal to accept bribes and that if he doesn't stop making such statements, it would derecognise AAP.
 
 The Delhi CM sees it as quite the opposite - his remarks are actually to do with stemming corruption and bribery. Being asked to not say what he did amounts to saying, 'Accept bribes and vote for the person who bribed you," Kejriwal believes. That is akin to promoting bribes, he thinks.
 
 That is why the Delhi CM can't stop hammering on about the issue.
 
 Yesterday, too, he said that the EC misinterpreted his comments. He further urged the poll panel to make him the brand ambassador to put an end to bribery in elections. In that spirit, he wanted to repeat the very comments the EC scolded him about.
 
 "Through this comment, I am trying to stop bribery. In fact, the Election Commission should make me its brand ambassador," Kejriwal said in a letter to chief election commissioner Nasim Zaidi.
 
 "I hope you (the EC) will review the issue and will allow me repeat my comments," he said.
 
 
  
 
 "We have shown this in Delhi election. People took money from BJP and Congress, but voted for us. If the Election Commission uses my statement and propagates it then in two years, the political parties will stop distributing notes," Kejriwal said in the letter.
 
 
 Of course, tt remains to be seen how much more patience the EC can show in the face of Kejriwal's relentlessness.
 
 
 
