JAISALMER:  , Rajasthan State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams are being exposed to Chemical,  , Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) related training under   of the Army. The   are undergoing training to provide relief and rescue operations with regard to chemical, biological,   

 The training is going on at Bikaner and Kota and will continue for a month. Similarly, SDRF jawans along with National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are undergoing a six-week training in Ajmer.
 
 Defence spokesman Lt Colonel Manish Ojha said, “SDRF units of Rajasthan are undergoing crucial basic orientation training in disaster management under Gandiv Division at Kota Military Station and Ranbankura Division at Bikaner Military Station. The training started on 27 March.
 
 “As part of the training, the SDRF team has been introduced to the basics of Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CRBN) environment and familiarised with the Individual Protective Equipment (IPE) & detection instruments. Mock exercises are being conducted to train the SDRF personnel in disaster relief operations in CBRN contaminated environment,” Ojha said.
 
 He added that, this is the first time that the SDRF teams are being exposed to CBRN-related training under qualified instructors of the Army. In the next phase, they will be trained in flood relief, fire rescue and medical related issues. The SDRF team has shown great interest and initiative in the conduct of the training so far.
 
 SDRF additional DG B L Soni said SDRF jawans are being trained at Bikaner and Kota to deal with many kinds of disasters and how to provide relief to affected people by immediately responding to the situation. Indian Army is imparting training in four modules, one per week.
 
 He added that in the one-week module on biological and radiological attacks, jawans are being taught how to deal with the situation. In biological attacks, they are being trained how to provide relief to people affected with bacteria, anthrax and plasma, etc. 
 
 They are also getting training for rescue operations during radiological attacks and demolition of nuclear plant reactor.
 
 Soni further said that in the one-week army training module, jawans are being trained in army medical first responder (MFR) and collapse structures search rescue. Army is training them for rescuing people from structures and buildings during earthquakes and collapse during other disasters. Moreover, the Army is training jawans in general module for ropeway rescue, use of equipment and water-related disasters, activated disaster rescue during floods.
 
 
