NEW DELHI: While India has got the provisional measures it had sought from the   when it had initiated proceedings against Pakistan in the   case on May 8, a much tougher test lies ahead at the international court which will now consider the issues involved in greater detail.

 As per the procedures involved,   president Ronny Abraham is now expected to meet representatives of both nations to prepare a timeline for filing of written submissions to take the case forward. Pakistan is likely to challenge the ICJ’s jurisdiction and, in that case, the court may want to settle this issue first before going ahead with India’s petition.
 
 India’s final objective is that the ICJ set aside Jadhav’s conviction and order his release.
 
 According to international lawyer and former law clerk at ICJ Shashank Kumar, who had predicted that ICJ was not going to be influenced by Pakistan’s arguments about jurisdiction and lack of urgency in the matter, it is far from clear whether or not the court can grant such a request by India. The ICJ, which has acknowledged Pakistan’s violation of Vienna Convention, may simply ask Islamabad to review and reconsider the   case, possibly through a domestic process.
 
 “In past cases concerning denial of consular access, the court has usually ordered the respondent country to undertake a ‘review and reconsideration’ of the sentence and conviction by a means of its choosing, e.g. through the domestic judicial process, taking into account the violation of the rights under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations," Kumar said.
 
 “Leaving aside the fact that all the previous cases involved the United States as the respondent, were the court to award similar relief in this case, Pakistan could simply undertake such review and reconsideration under its domestic legal system," he added.
 
 There is, of course, no guarantee that such review by Pakistan would lead to Jadhav's release, as desired by India. According to Kumar, at this stage, it would probably be in India’s interest to stretch the ICJ case as long as possible, as this would at least ensure that in keeping with today’s order Jadhav is not executed by Pakistan while the case is pending before the ICJ.
 
 If Pakistan does challenge ICJ’s jurisdiction, said Kumar, the international court in the Hague will possibly consider the possibility of holding separate hearings for jurisdiction and India’s petition. Following the hearings, the ICJ judges are expected to hold internal deliberations, before they issue their final judgement.
 
 “A reversal of Jadhav’s conviction and sentence and his subsequent release is far from a foregone conclusion," Kumar said. legal system," he added.
 
 
