HUBBALLI: Even though police are creating awareness about attention-diversion tactics of miscreants, women in the twin citues are still falling prey to them.

 Incidents of   posing as policemen and   has increased in recent weeks and triggered panic among those going on morning and evening walks. In the past four months, several cases of women being robbed of gold chains have been reported. In most cases, miscreants have also targeted  .
 
 On April, 4, Sharada Kulkarni, of Venktesh Colony, who was on a morning walk at Suryanagar, was stopped by two miscreants, who introduced themselves as policemen and requested her to remove her gold chain and other valuables worth Rs 1 lakh. They told her that thieves had murdered a woman after robbing her. She fell for the trick and handed over her valuables to them. They promptly fled the scene. A case was registered at Keshwapur police station.
 
 On February 20, Vimalbai Jartarghar, 65, of Laxminagar, was jogging at Tolankere Garden early in the morning. She was approached by a person, who said he was policeman and took her to his senior, another miscreant. Both advised her not to wear valuables and took her gold chain worth Rs 70000 and gave it to her in a cover. When she opened the cover later, she found only stones. 
 
 The third such incident occurred on January 29. Parvva Sullad was deceived by miscreants who posed as policemen and took her valuables worth Rs 1.15 lakh on Akshya Colony Road when she was jogging. A few months ago, a man posing as a policeman fled with the car of a businessman’s son on the pretext of booking a traffic violation case against the youth. None of these cases has been solved.
 
 Dr Umesh Sullad said, “My mother was robbed of valuables worth Rs 1.15 lakh by miscreants posing as policemen when she was jogging. Though we provided CCTV footage from the area, no action has been taken. Miscreants are targeting older women and police should increase patrolling to stop them.”
 
 Women joggers like Shanta K and Pavitra Bandi said, “We’re worried about our safety while out jogging. We’re so terrified that even if real policemen approach us, we doubt their credentials. Police should put in place measures to tackle this issue.”
 
 Police commissioner P H Rane said, “We have already created awareness among citizens and women to be cautious about chain-snatchers and their attention-diversion tactics. Our officers are working hard to curb such incidents and nab miscreants. I appeal to women and others not to hand over valuables to anyone in uniform. If they’re suspicious about someone in the neighbourhood, they should immediatley call the police control room (100) for help. We’ll increase patrolling in joggers’ parks and other places.”
 
 
