HYDERABAD: In good news for diabetic Muslims who wish to fast during  , the   (SAFES) has come out with a consensus statement on the use of novel drugs to keep the blood sugar levels under control during this period.

 These new drugs called sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors have been found to act well on people suffering from type 2 diabetes while they are on fast. 
 
 These drugs were first successfully tested on diabetics in India during the Ramzan of 2016. After a series of meetings with eminent endocrinologists from different cities around the world, including Hyderabad, in the last nine months, the SAFES has recommended safe and pragmatic use of the new medicines. Ramzan, the ninth month of Muslim calendar, will begin on May 27 or 28 in India depending on the sighting of the moon.
 
 The new drugs include canagliflozin, dapagliflozin, and empagliflozin. They have been found to keep the blood sugar levels under control though they cause loss of wa ter. Dr   of the department of endocrinology,  , was part of the team of endocrinologists that studied the efficacy of the new class of drugs on the management of type 2 diabetes. The consensus statement was published in the recent issue of the scientific journal,   and Metabolism.
 
 Dr Sahay told TOI that the new drugs increase urinary glucose excretion by lowering renal glucose reabsorption. They also improve glycemic parameters with a low risk of hypoglycemia (low blood sugar). “People with type 2 diabetes preferring to fast during Ramzan should discuss with doctor on the safe use of the medicines. Those with hypoglycemia risk should not fast. Blood sugar tests should be con ducted during the fast as Islamic scholars allow such tests. If they notice hypoglycemia, they should consult doctor and act on the medical advice,“ Dr Rakesh said.
 
 He said those dependent on insulin should discuss with doctor for a change in the schedule of insulin administration and dose, if any. The new drugs were also tested in different parts of the world. There was not much problem.
 
 The SAFES guidelines suggested that there should be adequate fluid intake to prevent water depletion.
 
 According to the SAFES statement, “South Asia faces a high burden of types 2 diabetes, coupled with a unique metabolic phenotype and macro-environmental challenges“ as many people across religions fast for long hours.
 
