MUMBAI:   chief   has said that the bank has developed the capability to service the smallest value payment transactions in rural areas, where it sees the next round of growth. The bank is building new platforms for this segment which enables customers to transact in eleven regional languages.

 Speaking to TOI, Kochhar said that the bank could service the low-value segment without partnership with payment banks or other entities. “We are very much equipped to do the payments part within the bank itself — from the smallest value to large value payments. We are also providing all the linkages from the source of money to the smallest kirana store so that customer does not have to use cash,” she said.
 
 On Tuesday the bank announced that it has successfully transformed 100 villages into digital villages and would increase the number to 600 by the end of the year. Speaking at the event, finance minister   said that he expected other banks to follow ICICI Bank in rural areas.
 
 The digital villages’ programme involves three initiatives — digitising financial transactions, providing skill training to people based on local needs and providing credit and market linkages. “While payments and credit facilities are provided by the bank, training is provided as a CSR activity by ICICI Foundation so that villagers can get the money, stand on their feet and start earning,” said Kochhar.
 
 “We have made sure that the digital bank is not a technology box which no one understands. We are saying that this is not all about smartphones, this is also about feature phones through which customers can transact in a regional language. In less than five months over 39,000 transactions in these villages have happened just through  ,” said Kochhar. The 100 villages which have been transformed into ‘ICICI Digital Villages’ are located across 17 states in India. These include 16 in Gujarat, 14 each in Maharashtra & Madhya Pradesh, 12 each in Tamil Nadu & Karnataka and 11 in Rajasthan, among others.
 
