NOIDA: A day after the district administration asked the private   to strictly adhere to CBSE guidelines and Supreme Court’s guidelines for school buses/vans,   have started receiving letters from schools seeking “authorisation letter” from the former saying that they permit the driver/transporter to pick and drop children via private buses/vans/etc.

 Schools have also said they do not endorse the use of private buses/vans for commuting to schools and will not take the responsibility of the children travelling in these vehicles. Hundreds of children travel in private  , buses, etc with virtually no monitoring. Parents and schools seem to be divided on the responsibility to be shared by them on the children travelling in these vehicles.
 
 In a circular issued to parents by Apeejay Public School, Sector 16A, the school said that it “does not endorse the use of private buses/vans for commuting to school.”
 
 “We further request you to either use the school transport or make arrangements to drop the child personally,” reads a point under the section “regarding school/private transport”. 
 
 “We request parents of students travelling by private transport to get the police verification of drivers and conductors, check the mandatory requirements regarding the bus/van CCTVs, GPS, fire safety, number of students allowed to travel etc as per the guidelines laid down by the Honourable   of India,” reads another point.
 
 It further asks the parents to submit an authorisation letter (with a photograph and required details of the person dropping and collecting the child) to the class teachers by Monday. The circular further states that no student is allowed to travel in any bus other than the one that has been allotted as per the parents’ request at the time of admission. “We request you not to send in applications to allow a change; we will not be able to entertain such requests,” reads the circular.
 
 Yatendra Kasana, president,   (ANSPA), who also received the circular from the school on Thursday, told TOI that the circular is contradictory in nature.
 
 “It seems the school is not ready to provide any buses for transporting the children. If they are not encouraging use of private buses/vans, then they should provide alternative arrangement. It is clear that if we want to change the mode of transport right now, there is no option,” he said.
 
 A parent from Ryan International School, Sector 39, told TOI the school has sent a circular to the parents on Wednesday saying that only they will be responsible for the children who use the school buses. “There are hundreds of children who travel by private vans/buses. Parents opt for these vehicles because they are convenient and drop children at their doorstep while the school will only drop the child at a particular bus stop,” said a parent.
 
 
