KOCHI: Dealing with  , sexual abuse, depression, addiction to electronic   and   are the most crucial issues faced by adolescents in the state, shows an analysis of cases that came up before adolescent friendly   (AFHCs) in the past four years.

 Officials with adolescents' friendly heath centres, where around 35,000 children have sought counselling in the past four years, said the state government has decided to roll out 21 more centres this year.
 
 As of now, there are around 50 adolescent-friendly health centres across the state. These centres are functioning mostly from taluk hospitals. “The number of cases are shooting up. So, the government has decided to start 21 more centres this year,“ said Dr Amar Fettle, nodal officer for adolescent friendly health centres.
 
 “Most common issues are learning difficulties, relationship issues with friends, depression, love affairs, addiction to tobacco, alcohol and drugs, reproductive health issues, being underweight, obesity, lack of self-esteem and addiction to electronic gadgets,“ he said.
 
 “Of these, dealing with love affairs, sexual abuse, depression and addiction to   and gadgets and drug abuse are crucial.Releasing the children from the clutches of these problems is a difficult task,“ Dr Fettle said.
 
 When the adolescent-friendly health centres were started in 2013, very few cases were reported. Later on the number of cases started to go up. Given lack accessibility to proper adolescent health care in the districts like Palakkad, Malappuram and Wayanad, the government has allotted more centres. In Palakkad, there are 14 centres while the number is seven and five respectively in Malappuram and Wayanad.
 
 In order to tackle the issue of manpower shortage, the government has started forming peer groups in schools. “Students can first approach the members of the peer group for clearing their doubts and seek advice. If the student requires counselling and treatment, he or she will be sent to the adolescent friendly health centres. There, the counsellors would give advice to the children as well as their parents,“ an official with the project said. The members of peer group would also help to track the supply point of drugs, he said.
 
 The project was originally started with aid from the Union government. “W started 39 centres in 2013.Last year, the Centre allotted 10 more centres but refused to provide adequate staff for running them. As per the government, there is enough staff strength in the health sector in the state. So, we were forced to deploy counsellors for HIVAIDS patients and family issues for counselling students,“ an official said.
 
 Later, the state government stepped in and decided to vitalize these centres. “It was after considering the rise in the number of cases that the state government decided to strengthen these centres. The government has decided to roll out new centres with its financial assistance,“ he said.The staff of other welfare projects including tribal welfare will be used for the purpose.
 
