Surat: Following TOI report about rickshaw menace at Chowk Bazaar heritage square, the traffic police department has swung into action and deployed additional cops to clear these vehicles.

 Talking to TOI, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) traffic P F Sangada said, “I personally visited the spot and monitored the situation for an hour. The rickshaw menace at Chowk Bazaar is a genuine problem. We are in the process of finalizing the parking stand for certain rickshaws there, which would be done in the next few days”
 
 Sangada added, “The parking facility will be for a limited number of rickshaws. It will be set up keeping in way that other traffic is not hindered. We are closely working with the civic body to finalise the parking slot.”
 
 On September 12, TOI had highlighted the plight of the commuters and the auto menace that is foiling the concerted efforts of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and the city police to ease traffic woes in the Walled City, especially the heritage square project.
 
 “I was surprised to find traffic cops managing the traffic as well as the auto drivers at heritage square. There was no traffic jam on Thursday and the vehicles passed through the intersection easily,” a marketing executive Nimish Mogera said. 
 
 Some months ago, the Chowk Bazaar intersection was closed with permanent barricading and dividers to ease the traffic movement. But the rickshaws haphazardly parked around daily. Commuters say the situation has worsened. The rickshaw drivers occupy half of the road towards Nehru Bridge during peak hours, resulting in traffic jams. During the peak hours, the auto drivers lay a siege of the entire road, leaving little space for other vehicles
 
 As per the arrangement made by the city police few months ago, the Chowk Bazaar intersection was barricaded. The traffic coming from Bhagal and going towards Rander is diverted from the Kamal Gali via Athwalines police station to State Bank of India (SBI) and Nehru Bridge. The autos are not allowed on Rajmarg from Chowk Bazaar to Bhagal for two hours, each in the morning and evening. 
 
 The traffic coming from Mughalsarai and going towards Adajan and Rander have to take a U-turn from Mahatma Gandhi statue and drive through the SBI and Nehru Bridge. 
 
 The autos could be seen parked outside the SBI building and the compound wall of the heritage square and Sir J J College Road too.
 
 
