NEW DELHI: As far as electoral turmoil goes,   has seen it all. Splits, betrayal of alliances, mass defections, hung legislatures, President's rule, mid-term elections, and ruling parties flipping chief ministers.

 Since 2007, two successive governments completed their terms and so a sense of 
  seems to have edged out of public memory. But this smooth stability was the exception rather than rule. So, it will not be surprising 
  .
 
 Of the 16 assemblies elected since 1952, a single party got the majority of seats and ruled for the full term only seven times. On the remaining nine occasions, governments came and went in rapid succession, some lasting two to three years and others collapsing within days.
 
 UP was the first state in the country to get a non-Congress government. Back in 1967, Charan Singh and his socialist colleagues left the Congress, formed the Bharatiya Kranti Dal, and took over the reins of office. This was a big event then because the   had a near invincible hold over governance across the country . Rising food prices and droughts fuelled sharp political discontent and people's desire for change.
 
 As a result of the political instability, President's rule was imposed in UP 10 times, a record of sorts. The last time the state went under Central rule was in 2002.
 
 Another consequence of the instability was the need to seek fresh mandates through mid-term elections. This happened seven times in the past, the last time in 1998. A parsing of this topsy-turvy history shows that in the early years, UP , like most of the country , was captivated by the Congress, more so because some of its biggest political figures were from the state. After the 1967 upheaval, the Congress's invincibility came into question. Alternatives were searched for by the people.
 
 In the 1970s, despite the Emergency, Congress rule was fragmented repeatedly by a parade of CMs who got miffed and either quit or were axed.
 
 Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna quit during the Emergency, bringing President's rule, and after the Emergency was lifted, Bahuguna joined the Opposition. Earlier, Kamlapati Tripathi had to quit after a Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) revolt rocked the state. Then, in 1977, the Janata Party formed government.
 
 Although the Congress won again in 1980, and had luminaries like V P Singh and N D Tiwari as CMs, all that came to nought as a restless electorate refused to be pacified.The Janata Dal won in 1989.
 
 Then began a phase of deep turbulence, helped along by the Mandal effect and 
  which was a way of the deprived sections flexing their political muscle. This phase lasted till   won a majority in 2007. 
 
