CHANDIGARH: Byelection for the Gurdaspur   seat will be held on October 11. Sitting BJP MP and former   star Vinod Khanna had passed away on April 27 necessitating the fresh election. With this announcement, the model code of conduct comes into force in   and Pathankot districts of Punjab with immediate effect.

 The Election Commission has also decided to use voter verifiable paper audit trails (VVPATs) in all polling stations, making it the first for any Lok Sabha constituency in the country. Stakes are high in this election for all key parties. 
 
 For the Congress, this will be the first election after Captain   took over the reins in the state in March while BJP would like to hold on to the seat, having won it four times since 1998 with Khanna as its candidate. 
 
  In 2009 the seat was won by former Punjab Congress chief Partap Singh Bajwa. AAP, on the other hand, had contested the 2014 Lok Sabha election with Sucha Singh Chhotepur as its candidate. Chhotepur has left the party since then, but sources said AAP is keen on clinching the seat by fielding a fresh face and showing that it still has some L appeal among voters in Punjab despite the dismal performance in the last assembly election.Sources said AAP's central leadership has given a free hand to the state unit to decide on a candidate. The five shortlisted names are expected to be out by next week.
 
 Punjab Congress too has sent its feedback to the party leadership and an announcement is likely in the coming days. After toying with the idea of fielding a celebrity, local Congress leaders had pro posed names of Punjab Con gress president Sunil Jak har and former Patiala MP   for the seat.
 
 During the 2014 Lok Sab ha election, Khanna had won the seat by 1.36 lakh votes. The constituency comprises nine assemb ly segments and has over 15 lakh voters.
 
 It has a 44% majority of Hindus closely followed by Sikhs. With a literacy rate of 82%, Gurdaspur has over 13 institutions offering higher education in the fields of en gineering, hotel manage ment and other degree courses.
 
 Before Khanna, Con gress had retained the Gur daspur seat four times in a row winning back-to-back elections from 1980.
 
