MUMBAI: The question of constitutional validity of the Maharashtra government’s rules for providing reservations in promotions will be placed before a third judge or a larger bench of the Bombay High Court, following dissenting views by two judges of a division bench. At stake for the government is not only its existing policy of reservations in promotions in its departments as well as in public bodies like the BMC and BEST, but also in direct recruitments. 

 The challenge before the court was to the constitutional validity of the   (Reservations) Act enacted in 2001 and a May 2004 government circular. The Act provided for reservations up to 52% for scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, denotified tribes (vimukta jatis), nomadic tribes, special backward category and other backward classes. The circular provided for 33%   in promotions for these communities. 
 
 Hearing a petition by employees, the   in 2014 had held both the Reservation Act as well as the circular were unconstitutional. This was challenged by the state and another group of employees before the HC. 
 
 A division bench of Justice Anoop Mohta and Justice   differed in their views on the issue. Justice Mohta held the state’s rules—both the Act as well as the circular—were constitutionally valid and MAT had exceeded its jurisdiction. Justice Sayed agreed with Justice Mohta and said the Act was legally valid. However, the judge in his dissenting view ruled that the circular was “bad in law” and gave the state 12 weeks to take corrective steps. The judge also questioned the state extending reservations up to 52%, despite the   capping it at 50%. He asked the state to examine the 2% reservation provided to special backward castes.
 
 More importantly, Justice Sayed said the state will have to carry out an exercise to collect quantifiable data with regard to backwardness and adequate representation of marginalised communities in government jobs by December 31, 2017. If the government fails to carry out this exercise, the backward communities will be treated at par with open categories in the matter of appointments to government jobs both in direct recruitment as well as promotions. Justice Sayed pointed out that no comprehensive survey covering all backward classes was carried out after the BD Deshmukh Committee report more than 50 years ago, and census figures considered were for the year 1931. 
 
 “To determine the backward class amongst the backward caste, an exercise is required to be undertaken by the state government by collecting data...Until such exercise is carried out, the state government cannot grant benefits (of reservations) to a person merely because that person happens to be from the backward caste communities viz. ST/SC/DT/NT/SBC/OBC,” said Justice Sayed. In light of the dissenting views, the division bench has directed the petitions be placed before Chief Justice Manjula Chellur, who will decide if the issue will go before a third judge or a larger bench.
 
 
