NAGPUR: In a major respite to eligible ATKT   (BE) and   ( ) students, the university has permitted them to appear for seventh and eight semester summer exams as per the old pattern.

 Many ATKT students were facing the risk of losing an academic year because of the new credit-based semester pattern that was implemented in 2013-14. Besides, the students would have had to bear the burden of additional tuition fee and other expenses for a year.
 
 Many students had been approaching vice-chancellor SP Kane seeking one more attempt to appear in the exam as per the old semester pattern.
 
 In a notification uploaded on its website,   (NU) stated, “The vice-chancellor has decided to allow the students of 7th semester BE and BTech to appear for the summer 2017 exam as per the old pattern, as these students have completed their term work.”
 
 ATKT students have also been allowed to appear in seventh and eight semester exams simultaneously.
 
 Besides the students’ grievance, the NU too was in a dilemma over issuing mark sheets to such students.
 
 The university had introduced the credit-based semester pattern in 2013-14. It had provided five attempts, including the regular exam, to ATKT students in the old pattern. It had also asked students to complete their term work even if they failed in previous semesters.
 
 However, some students couldn’t clear some subjects even after exhausting the five attempts. Meanwhile, many students cleared the eight semester but still had seventh semester backlog. After exhausting the five attempts, they couldn’t appear for the seventh semester exam in the old pattern any more.
 
 This rendered them virtually ineligible for the entire final year comprising the seventh and eight semesters. “While appearing for the seventh semester as per the new pattern invited tougher preparation, the efforts put in for eight semester would have gone in vain. In addition, the university couldn’t issue mark sheet if seventh semester was completed in the new credit-based semester pattern. Thus, to overcome this obstacle, the students were required to repeat the entire year which would have resulted in a bigger loss of an academic year as well as funds,” an NU official said.
 
 Another issue dogging theses students was the burden of studying additional subjects if they had opted for credit-based semester pattern to clear the final year.
 
 Kane couldn’t be reached for comments on the issue.
 
