HYDERABAD: There seem to be no respite in sight for post-graduate medical and dental aspirants in the state. Private medical colleges are now insisting that candidates submit a bank guarantee and 50% of their fee for admissions. If this was not enough, students allege that have even been asked to forego a stipend, made mandatory by the Medical Council of India. On May 18, the   directed private college managements to continue the admission process after accepting 50% payment of fee along with a bond stating that students would adhere by the revised fee structure as and when the court issues its final verdict on the matter.

 Despite the order, students alleged that colleges were forcing them to not only submit bank guarantees (as per the GO issued on May 9) but also sign a piece of paper stating that they would work as a junior residents without stipends until the completion of course. Students claimed that the colleges demanded that they furnish their bank guarantees within one week's time.
 
 "Private colleges justified the fee hike by saying that they would give Rs 30, 000 per month as a stipend to students. But now they are asking us to sign a document saying that we will work for free for three years. I don't know what to do as I cannot afford the fee without the stipend," said Sujatha, a PG aspirant who secured a seat in a reputed private college.
 
 Another student Ramakrishna Reddy said, “Colleges are completely going against rules and are asking us to sign a bond and give bank guarantee. This is unacceptable. Concerned authorities must immediately initiate action.“
 
 Members of Health Reforms and Doctors' Association (HRDA) and Telangana Junior Doctors' Association issued a legal notice to the Telangana Private Medical and Dental Colleges Management Association on Saturday accusing colleges of disregarding the court order. “This is clear case of contempt of the order passed by the High Court,“ the notice read, while demanding colleges resume the admission process. “We did not know that colleges said that they won't give a stipend to students or else we would have raised this issue as well,“ said Srinivas, general secretary of HRDA.
 
 B   , vicechancellor of the   (KNRUHS) said that if students sign a paper saying that they don't need a stipend, it would not stand in court. “ As per the MCI guidelines colleges have to give a stipend to students. So, if they force students to sign bond regarding this issue, it won't hold good either in court or before the MCI,“ Reddy said. He added that nothing can be done when it comes to bank guarantee as court did not say anything about it.
 
 When asked if the varsity would initiate action against private colleges for not following varsity orders, he said, “Although we are getting oral complaints against private colleges, not a single student is ready to give a written complaint. Hence we have no basis for initiating an enquiry .“
 
 On May 9, the Telangana government issued a GO revising the tuition fee for postgraduate medical and dental courses in private unaided and nonminority colleges. Students moved court the very next day and got a stay on fee hike.
 
 Notification out for 3rd phase of medical counseling
 
 Hyderabad: The Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS) on Saturday issued a notification for third phase of counseling to fill about 350 seats that were not filled during the second phase of counseling.
 
 According to the notification, 242 students failed to report to their respective colleges after seat allotment. Another 100 seats were not allotted in the second phase of counseling as no students opted for them.
 
 “Eligible candidates, whose names are notified in the final merit list on KNRUHS website only can exercise web options for admission ...from 6am on Sunday to 2pm on Monday,“ the circular read.
 
 B Karunakar Reddy, the VC of the varsity, rued that many students, despite being allotted seats, did not report to colleges. He said that this would be last counseling for service candidates and in the next phase seats reserved for service candidates will be moved to the general pool.
 
 The varsity also issued a notification to fill seats under management quota seats in private non ­ minority medical & dental colleges and un-aided minority medical colleges. 
 
