NOIDA: A 35-year-old man, fleeing with a   car and Rs 1.5 lakh which he   from a driver, was shot dead in an   on Tuesday night in  ,  . He has been identified as  , a resident of Aligarh. Bawendra and his two accomplices had robbed a driver in Sector 62 when the police gave them a chase.

 According to police, a constable, Subodh Kumar, received bullet injuries in his left arm during the shootout and is undergoing treatment at Kailash Hospital.
 
 Bawendra was wanted in nearly two dozen criminal cases, including one murder and six attempt-to-murder cases, police said. Investigations revealed that he was involved in crimes since 2000.
 
 SSP Love Kumar said a person identifying himself as Vinod Kumar telephoned police at 11.06pm on Tuesday and told them that three bike-borne men overtook his Honda City car and robbed him of the vehicle and Rs 1.5 lakh in cash near NIB Chowki, Sector 62. 
 
 Vinod, a driver with a private company, was going with the cash from Dasna to Saket in Delhi. The accused had held him at gunpoint and snatched the car keys. Two of them got into the car, while the third started following them on a TVS Apache motorcycle. Vinod immediately reported the robbery to police.
 
 Police launched a search and found that the accused were heading towards Greater Noida. A police team from Sector 58 police station chased the criminals and alerted their counterparts in neighbouring police stations. Soon, the Bisrakh police received information that the accused had reached FNG roundabout and swung into action.
 
 SSP Kumar said cops intercepted the Honda City car and signaled the accused to stop. “They instead accelerated and tried to speed towards Cherry County, Noida Extension. The accused opened fire at the police team in a bid to escape. The police returned fire, in which one criminal, Bawendra, was shot,” he said.
 
 The police immediately overpowered Bawendra, who was in the car, but his accomplice managed to escape in the darkness. Bawendra received three bullets and was rushed to district hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. The identity of the second accused could not be established as Bawendra could not be questioned. The third accomplice, who was following the car on bike, fled when he witnessed the encounter. 
 
 A .32 bore country-made pistol, three live cartridges, three used cartridges, the stolen Honda City car and Rs 1.5 lakh in cash were recovered from the spot. The car, however, had no damage or bullet marks. 
 
 SSP Kumar later visited the injured constable in hospoital. Doctors said he is out of danger.
 
 Bawendra’s family was informed about the encounter on Wednesday. “Devendra, Bawendra’s father, was so upset over his son taking up crime that he took to ‘sanyas’ several years ago,” a police officer said.
 
 Police teams are combing nearby areas to arrest the two absconding criminals. The DIG (Meerut zone) has announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for the police team.
 
 
