After a long time, there was finally a government announcement that made people happy – paying service charge at a restaurant will now be voluntary and customers can choose not to pay it if they are not satisfied with their dining experience. If the list of charges on your dinner bill often left a bad taste in your mouth, the government has now clarified that the service charge cannot be mandatorily applied by restaurants. The Centre has also asked states to ensure that hotels and restaurants display this information on their premises. “A number of complaints from consumers have been received that hotels and restaurants are following the practice of charging ‘service charge’ in the range of 5-20%, in lieu of tips, which a consumer is forced to pay irrespective of the kind of service provided to him,” the Union Consumer Affairs Ministry said in a statement.

 While diners are delighted and waiters hopeful that this might bring their tips back, many restaurants in NCR, as well as the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), still maintain that they will not make the service charge optional, and will give the option to the customer of not eating at their venue.
 
 
 
 Riyaaz Amlani, president of the NRAI, stressed that what has come from the ministry is a "press advisory and not an order." He says, "There are judicial pronouncements to support that the service charge can be charged by hotels and restaurants. It is for restaurants to decide as a policy if they want to charge service charge or not. The information about the service charge should be clearly mentioned on the menu and displayed in the restaurant, and then customers can decide if they want to dine in and pay it. If they don’t want to pay the service charge, they can go to some other place. My point is, someone can’t have a pizza and then decide after eating that the pizza wasn’t good they won’t pay for it. What we have received is not a judicial order."
 
 Many other restaurants also say that they will continue to levy service charge and that this will be displayed on the restaurant premises, and the customer can decide if he/she wants to dine there or not. "We put up a board starting Tuesday that service charge is part of our menu, and if the customer doesn’t want to pay it, he/she can walk out of the restaurant. We can’t leave it to the customers to decide after they have dined if they want to pay service charge or not. That will lead to more confusion," says Sahil Sambhi from Molecule Air Bar in Gurgaon.
 
 
 
 When asked about the legal implications of restaurants still mandating service charge, Nitin Gaur, advocate, consumer affairs, tells us, "The department of consumer affairs in the notification has asked restaurant owners to display information about the service charge not being mandatory, and that it will only be paid at the customers’ discretion. The restaurants/bars’ monopolistic approach of informing dinners beforehand, that if they want to dine, the service charge will be applicable, or else services cannot be provided by them, is totally arbitrary and illegal, diluting the intent of the notification, which gives powers to the customer to judge the services and pay service charge. Unless this notification is either stayed or quashed by any court in India, the restaurants/bars cannot deny customers from availing their services solely on the grounds of payment of service charge."
 
 
 
 
 
  
  (BCCL/Picture for representational purposes only)
 
 
 
 
 
 It’s application being questioned or not, the news still comes as a breather to many who have often been reluctant to argue even when dissatisfied with service. "Even if we would point it out to the management that we didn’t like the service, or if we asked them why we should pay service charge, they would put things in such a way that it would become embarrassing in front of other guests. Now, at least there is clarity, people know that they can refuse to pay service charge," says Rashi Kukreja, who works in a Noida-based IT firm. “Agar Rs 1000 ka khana khaya toh uske upar tax aur charges itne saare lagate hain that it looks like another list on your bill. The other thing is that service charge varies in different restaurants, leaving customers confused. Now at least there’ll be some control and regulation," says Sarabhjot Singh, an entrepreneur.
 
 Feroz Khan, a Noida Sector 44 resident, says, "The bills used to be so inflated with these taxes and charges ki agar 600 ka bill hai toh taxes ke baad Rs 1,000 se upar ho jaata tha. And I’m ok with taxes, but why should I pay service charge unless I'm happy about the service? And even then, shouldn’t it be the guest’s discretion as to how much service charge or tip is to be paid?"
 
 
 
 Apart from diners, it’s the waiters who are glad about the notification. Anand Singh, who has been working as a waiter for two decades, says, "Before the service charge was in place, people did leave tips but after that, they had the excuse ki ab toh service charge diya, tip kaisi? So I hope more people start giving tip now. I have found that the expats and corporates living in Greater Noida and certain posh Noida sectors are more generous in their tip. But the trouble is with students, woh kabhi nahi denge. Of course, the waiters will now be on their toes because you want to serve the customer better so that you get a bigger tip."
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Another waiter, Rajat Verma, says, "Waiters surely will concentrate more on the jobs now, since they have the chance to earn good money through tips. Pehle chahe kitna bhi bada restaurant kyon na ho, 90% log tip nahi dete thay ki service charge toh de hi rahe hain. Par ab shayad aisa na ho."
 
 But not all waiters are hopeful. Prateek, a waiter at a restaurant in Sector 18, Noida, says, "Delhi-Gurgaon mein toh log tip de dete hain, but I don’t think Noida people will leave a generous tip now that they don’t have to give service charge. Noidawallahs have never had the reputation of being generous tippers."
 
 
 
 Restaurateurs maintain that though this may sound as good news to customers, the service charge was for the common interest of all. Priykant Gautam, director of The Smoke Factory in Sector 38A, says, “Of course it stands to benefit the customer, but it has a two-way effect. The service charge is completely for the staff and hence, we will have to increase their remuneration, else their morale will go down. I don’t suppose Noida folks will be very forthcoming with tips. The city differs from Gurgaon and Delhi in that regard.”
 
 Rishi Aggarwal, owner of   in Sector 18, says, "I think it's a wonderful step. We levy the service charge for the staff's benefit, so that they don't have to depend on tip. But if the customers don’t want it, they need not pay it. The staff – waiters and attendants – will be affected because their additional income will all depend on tips now, and we all know how generous Noidawallahs are when it comes to that. Of course, the biggest impact of this will be that more people might be tempted to dine out now, given that they will have to spend less for the same meal."
 
 Restaurateur Priyank Sukhija says that internationally, service charge is a common practice. "But now we will keep it as part of the menu, and have it optional for guests. We will come to know how good or bad in days to come," he says.
 
 But Restaurateur  , also the honorary secretary of the NRAI, asks, "Across the world, service charge or gratuity is common practice and accepted by the consumer as they know this is for the entire crew - front of house, kitchen, housekeeping, security et al - which works through odd hours, holidays and weekends to provide a perfect dine-in experience. Home delivery or coffee chains don’t levy this charge as it is an over-the-counter transaction. The service charge is levied in other facilities also, even while booking tickets online, so why just single out restaurants?"
 
 
 
