GOA VELHA:   will play host to a decagonal contest just like Cortalim on the other side of River Zuari river. Velim with 12 candidates takes the cake, but two less here is still confusing for the voter and a daunting task for the main parties, especially the   (BJP) who is trying hard to retain the seat.

 Vishnu Wagh had created history, winning the seat for the BJP for the first time, nudging out Congress sitting MLA Francis Silveira by 1,219 votes in the March 2012 polls. The multi-faceted legislator used his eloquence to impress in the Goa legislative assembly, but some of his voters and supporters were disappointed that he was not allotted a berth in the cabinet. 
 
 A bit of his frankness, in often throwing sharp barbs at his party, raised doubts whether he would get the ticket. Much has changed now after his cardiac and health problems in August 2016. His brother Ramrao Wagh will wage the battle for him to retain the seat. But Ramrao, an associate professor in the department of computer science in Goa University, being a novice in politics has some ground to cover before February 4.
 
 Two-time MLA, Silveira who lost on the cusp of an anti-Congress wave in 2012, stands a good chance of reclaiming his seat. But the 10-candidate conundrum is likely to create some uncertainty in this constituency which hugs the southern part of Tiswadi. 
 
 AAP, as a new outfit here, has done its groundwork well and early. Its supporters have already covered a few rounds this segment, wedged partly between the Cumbharjua canal and River Zuari on one side and a hill range spanning from Azossim to Siridao on the other. 
 
 “The picture is a bit confusing with so many candidates in the fray, but three key figures among them could be the main competitors,” a voter in Neura said.
 
 Both Ramrao and Silveira face competition from AAP’s Rama Kankonkar, Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) nominee and Goa Velha sarpanch Jagdish Bhobe. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has fielded Dattaram Chari and   (GSP) Leocardio Monteiro. In addition, zilla panchayat (ZP) member and MLA Pandurang Madkaikar’s brother, Dhaku Madkaikar and Simon Caiado make up the tally of four independents to six party candidates in the eight-odd village segment which has a large scheduled tribes (ST) population. 
 
 Kankonkar and Madkaikar will also look to carve out a large slice of the ST vote. Dhaku, though not a resident of St Andre, still managed to bag the St Lawrence (Agasaim) ZP seat, getting more than 6,000 votes and easily beating the BJP nominee in the March 2015 polls. This goes to show which side the wind is blowing in the constituency, but assembly polls may be slightly different, agree poll analysts.
 
 MGP nominee Bhobe has gained some ground through his connect with the youth. MGP has not won this seat ever and Bhobe will emulate Wagh if he does it for the oldest regional party. 
 
 The constituency may not have many issues for the election, but employment is an emotive one. A large number of youth, especially in Agasaim and Siridao, have migrated abroad for jobs. Farmers are not cultivating their fertile khazan lands, which skirt the the entire constituency, due to ingress of saline waters. Many cashew farmers have lost their tenanted land on Kadamba plateau to real estate. 
 
 The segment has the site of old   port and Raj Bid, a royal passage spanning from Agasaim to Old Goa, but heritage is losing its importance and value due to development.
 
 In the final analysis, the main fight may be restricted to a few while others are only making up the numbers. The move of Caiado, a staunch BJP supporter, to enter the fray as an independent has raised doubts about his intent. Will it add more suspense and confusion to the contest? When counting day comes around, the voters will know.
 
