THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Vigilance and   (VACB) has stated before the vigilance special court here that there was no evidence to prosecute its former director N   and SP R Sukesan on allegations of scuttling   probe against K M Mani, who was the finance minister in the UDF cabinet. The   said this in the preliminary inquiry report filed before the court. 

 The court had ordered a preliminary inquiry on September, last year based on petition filed in this regard by  . The allegation was that Reddy, who currently serves as DGP of state crime records bureau, gave instructions to investigation officer Sukesan to make corrections in the case diary with the intention of sabotaging the probe in favour of K M Mani. However, VACB maintained in the preliminary inquiry report that though Reddy had given certain instructions to Sukesan, those could not be considered as a corruption under the Prevention of Corruption Act.
 
 Interestingly, the same report also has R Sukesan’s statement putting the blame on Reddy. It is learned that Sukesan gave his statement to VACB that the refer report in the case filed before the court on his behalf was actually not prepared by him, but, by Reddy and kept in a pen drive. Sukesan told the vigilance team that Reddy handed over the pen drive to him with a directive that that report should be filed. Sukesan also spoke about the mental trauma he had to face during the period of probe. 
 
 It could be assumed that VACB went ahead and concluded the report in favour of Reddy overlooking this statement. 
 
 The court has granted the petitioner time till February 7 to file objection, if any. 
 
 On Friday, Reddy maintained that as former vigilance director he had only pointed out contradictions and sought clarification regarding the bar bribery probe by Sukesan.
 
 Vigilance special investigation unit-I SP Sukesan alleged that Reddy had manipulated the enquiry report of the bar bribery case, but the former vigilance director denied the allegation citing that even Sukesan had reached a conclusion that there was no scope to prosecute former finance minister K M Mani.
 
