CHENNAI: The O   in the AIADMK – the AIADMK ( ) -- has approached the Election Commission seeking stringent action against the ruling party workers and appointment of impartial polling officials for the April 12 R K Nagar byelection. 

 A team of party leaders led by Rajya Sabha member V Maithreyan met chief election commission Nasim Zaidi and other senior officials of the commission and presented a set of demands.
 
 “On March 23, the vehicles of all other party candidates were stopped 100 metres away from the election office when they went there to file their nominations. However, the vehicle of AIADMK (Amma) candidate T T V   alone was allowed to go up to the office. This shows that the polling officials are not impartial,” Maithreyan told TOI from New Delhi.
 
 He said chief minister K Palaniswami was holding an important post in the party’s election campaign team. “When the chief minister is holding a post in party’s election campaign team, polling officials will not be impartial and they will naturally be taking orders from him. We pointed out this to the chief election commission (CEC) and wanted him to take action,” said Maithreyan. The MP said the CEC and other EC officials had promised to act on the complaints.
 
 The OPS team wanted the EC to order deployment of central forces in the constituency. “In the normal course, the EC deploys central police force in any constituency two or three days before polling. But as the state machinery is fully involved in polling work, we wanted the EC to direct deployment of CRPF in the constituency immediately,” said Maithreyan.
 
 On the alleged distribution of money and other goodies to voters, he said money and promises flowed freely. “We told the EC team that money and gold are being promised to be distributed to voters by the Dhinakaran team. We wanted the EC to prevent the flow of money in the constituency. We also wanted a special election observer to monitor the byelection,” said the MP.
 
 He said there are precedence of the EC appointing special observers as it happened during the Kancheepuram and Gummudipoondi byelections in 2005. “The election observer must stay put in the constituency and monitor the happenings and report to the EC at the earliest.”
 
 Apart from Maithreyan, the team also had former state ministers K P Munusamy and Natham R Viswanathan and former MLA Manoj Pandian.
 
