NASHIK: With the municipal corporation, Zilla Parishad and panchayat samiti elections coming to an end, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) is all set to conduct the examinations of Class XII ( ) and Class X ( ) across the state from February 28 and March 7, respectively.

 In Nashik division, a total of 1,68,287 students will appear for the HSC examination while 2,12,576 students will appear for the SSC examination. According to an official communication issued by the Maharashtra board, the HSC (higher secondary certificate) exams will end on March 25, while the SSC (secondary school certificate) exams will get over on April 1.
 
 Junior colleges are already conducting practical and oral examinations for HSC from February 9 and it will go on till February 25. Schools are conducting SSC practical and oral exams from February 15 and it will end by March 4.
 
  Marwadi, divisional secretary of Nashik board, said preparations for both the board examinations are in final phase. “After elections, all teachers are now available for the examination-related work and we are ready to conduct examinations in Nashik division with full force,” he said.
 
 Nashik divisional board includes Nashik, Dhule, Nandurbar and Jalgaon districts. There are 218 centres in the division for conducting the HSC examination, and 480 centers to conduct the SSC examination.
 
 The teachers’ organisations had raised the issue of excusing the teachers involved in SSC and HSC examination work from the election duty. However, the authorities could not make it possible at most of the locations in Nashik district.
 
 “The   had issued directives to election officers to relieve teachers involved in examination duties from the election work. However, it could not be possible at most of the places in Nashik as the election authorities was already falling short of staff. However, considering our duty towards nation and students, the teachers are now ready for the examination work,” said S C Kedia, secretary of teachers’ union.
 
 As the board examinations are scheduled to begin from coming Tuesday, farewell functions are being organized at junior colleges, schools, tutorials and classes across the city. The board has also issued 10 helpline numbers for students who want counseling during the examination.
 
