MUMBAI: Whenever seven-year-old Mayuresh Sardesai came across a food item, he would reflexively ask his mother, Bhavna, “Can I eat this?" Cakes, chocolates and fish were among the goodies denied to the Panvel child because of a rare condition called citrullinemia, triggering his ask-before-you-eat habit. Bhavna had a reason to be vigilant: she lost three children between 1999 and 2004, each within a week of birth, to the condition.

 Bhavna has now lowered her guard--but only after she donated a portion of her liver to her son on June 6. A month after the transplant, doctors at   in Nerul say Mayuresh has improved appreciably.
 
 Due to cirtullinema, the levels of toxic ammonia would increase in Mayuresh's system instead of being processed by his liver. “The minute he turned sluggish, I knew the ammonia levels had increased and rushed to the doctor,“ recalls Bhavna. In the last six months, he was hospitalized four times.
 
 Operating on Mayuresh was a challenge. The fluctuating levels of ammonia through his seven years have had an effect on his nervous system.
 
 “He was extremely hyperactive and was labelled as attention deficit hyperactive syndrome child,“ said liver specialist Dr Aabha Nagral.
 
 The medical team was worried about how the child would react post-operation to the tubes and IVs attached to his body. This is when paediatric liver transplant surgeon Darius Mirza, who operated on Mayuresh at Apollo Hospital, decided to seek help from   in the UK, where he is a consultant. “To calm Mayuresh, we needed some drugs that aren't available in India. The plan was to give him the medicines before surgery," he said.
 
 A doctor from the Birmingham hospital travelled to Bengaluru with the medicines-sodium benzoate, sodium phenyl acetate and arginine. “Mayuresh's father Hitesh picked up the medicines and travelled to Mumbai on June 4. We gave him the medicines the next day,“ said Dr Mirza, adding that the Birmingham-Mumbai transfer took less than 48 hours.
 
 Mayuresh had his first chocolate bar in hospital. “He had a piece of cake too for the first time," said Bhavna. There has been no build-up of ammonia like before.
 
 Another plus point of Mayuresh's transplant is the behavioral change. “He is much calmer as compared to before," said Dr Nagral, adding that many atimes metabolic problems like cirtullinema are misdiagnosed as psychiatry problem.
 
 For Mayuresh's parents, the transplant ended a sad chapter.After their three children died, Vashi-based geneticist Dr Anil Jalan helped them zero down on citrullinema, an inherited disease, as the cause. Both Bhavna and Hitesh were carriers of the genetic condition, said Dr Mirza.
 
