MUMBAI: The   (ACB) has informed the Bombay   that it has sought permission from the Maharashtra government to conduct an “open inquiry” into allegations of irregularities in the tender for   and  . 

 The ACB’s statement was made in an affidavit in response to a public interest litigation filed by activist Pravin Wategaonkar, who had sought an investigation into alleged corrupt practices in the tender process. A division bench of Justice Ranjit More and Justice Shalini Phansalkar-Joshi has scheduled the case for hearing on February 10, 2017.
 
 The affidavit filed by Bhagwat Sonwane, deputy superintendent of police, ACB (Navi Mumbai), revealed that following a complaint, the agency had conducted a preliminary inquiry into the allegations. In September 2016 and again in December 2016, the ACB sent letters to the additional chief secretary, home department, “seeking permission to conduct an open inquiry regarding the tender process for the Sion-Panvel highway and toll collection.” 
 
 The affidavit justified the need for a probe. “Construction of the Sion-Panvel highway is connected with the public works department (PWD), MSRDC and other related private and government agencies. Also, the process of tendering and construction involves highly technical issues. Hence an open inquiry is necessary to take appropriate action against the persons involved, if any,” the affidavit said.
 
 In November 2008, the state PWD, then headed by former minister Chhagan Bhujbal, had proposed to widen the 20km Sion-Panvel Highway with a new toll naka at Kamothe. In June 2009, a tender notice was issued and the IVRCL-Kakade Infrastructure Pvt Ltd (KIPL) joint venture—Sion-Panvel Tollways Ltd—bagged the contract by offering the lowest viability gap fund of Rs 390 crore. KIPL is owned by BJP MP Sanjay Kakade, and the petitioner alleges the company had no prior experience in such projects. 
 
 According to Wategaonkar, other eligible firms were not allowed to bid for the project. KIPL increased its equity in the venture and then made a “windfall” gain by selling off its equity to a third company. “A company that did not participate in the bidding now de facto controls the toll collection whereas IVRCL was used only for tendering process. The object of the conspiracy is now apparent—of manipulating the tendering process, enabling Kakade Infrastructure secure 49% stake and make windfall gains by selling the stake,” the petitioner alleged. 
 
 The petition has sought an investigation into “the connivance” by government officers and urged the court to conduct an audit of the records to check if bribes were paid to persons. 
 
 
