NEW DELHI: Love in the air is okay with Indian   but not rudeness. An in-flight behaviour study by  , one of the world’s biggest online travel companies, has found that Indians are tolerant of “flirting singles” and “amorous couples” and their pet peeves are rear seat kickers, “boozers” and loud passengers.

 Expedia’s 2017   Etiquette Study shows that a majority of 
  to be seated in a quiet section if offered by the airlines they choose as they “dread sitting next to someone who talks too much on a flight”.
 
 “According to Expedia Flight Etiquette   2017, when sitting next to someone they do not know, 65% of them often engage themselves in conversation and talk during the flight. 62% of the North-Indians feel comfortable talking about religious or political topics and 45% of them fall in the category of 'Chatty Cathy' - the neighbour who strikes up a conversation and won’t stop. If there was a passenger misbehaving incident on a plane, 75% of such passengers would alert the flight attendant and ask them to handle it, they are the last ones to remain quiet/ignore such incidents. They are also more helpful than others, with 69% of them helping others with their luggage and 63% of them offering seats to fellow passengers’’, said Manmeet Ahluwalia, marketing head, Expedia in India.
 
 The pan-India survey finds “passengers are particularly considerate to the airline crew and generally follow regulations.”
 
 The things that annoy Indian flyers the most are: “rear seat kickers”; disruptive passengers who have had too many drinks before or during the flight; “audio insensitive” flyers who talk loudly or listen to music at a volume that others around them are also also forced to listen to the same; inattentive parents who pay no attention to their “crying, whining” children; queue jumpers who rush to deplane before those seated ahead of them; neighbours who start a conversation and then don’t stop; “seat back” passengers who recline their seats all the way back the moment the plane gets airborne; “armrest hogs”; “aromatic passengers” who have either not used deos or used too much perfume or cologne: “pungent foodies” who get food with strong smell on board and “undressers” who remove shoes and socks.
 
 “Single and ready to mingle” flyers and “anorous couples” drew the least frowns from Indian flyers. Expedia conducted this study based on 1,002 interviews of Indian adults aged over 18. “The data were statistically weighted by gender, age, and region so that the respondents are representative of the Indian online population,” it says.
 
