CHENNAI:   ticked all the boxes last season. While there were no doubt about his wicket-keeping skills, he proved that he can contribute with the bat too, scoring a century each against West Indies, Bangladesh and Australia. What stood out was his ability to bat under pressure. Following a successful home season, Saha is now gearing up for the challenges of India’s overseas tours, starting with Sri Lanka. In a chat with TOI, the 32-year-old told about how captain   has allowed him to bat freely, why it will be fun to work with new coach   and why India cannot afford to take Sri Lanka lightly. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 My preparation for the series took a hit because of the rains in Kolkata. I could only do indoor nets apart from playing in some club matches. So I have to work doubly hard now as we will be playing in an away series after a long time. In our last tour to Sri Lanka in 2015, the conditions were different than what they used to be. The wickets assisted pacers initially before offering turn for spinners. So we have to tread cautiously and adapt quickly. Despite Sri Lanka’s recent performances, we cannot afford to take them lightly. With nothing to lose, they will be highly motivated to do well against us.
 
 
 
 
 It was a crucial season but then I never felt any pressure. I stayed in the moment and always tried to give my best. Even when I got injured, I was confident of making a comeback. It was a result of the positive mindset which Kohli has imbibed in the team. But I am not dwelling in the past. All I can say is that I am more assured of my place in the Test side now.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, we spoke for a bit when he was in the West Indies. He wanted to know about my preparations. I am aware that I have become an important member of the side as Kohli has given me the freedom to alter the field since I have the best view. It is for this reason too that he relies on me and the bowler’s judgment for DRS. He also gives me confidence when I go to bat by allowing me to play in my own style. So in a way, I am playing with more freedom under Kohli. Kohli’s aggressive leadership has also ensured that the players are always highly motivated to perform.
 
 
 
 
 Kumble was all about technical inputs. He told me to change my stance a bit and it helped me immensely. At this level, the coach cannot teach you everything. But then, his role becomes important from the outside. Often, the players would react in the heat of the moment and might not be able to execute the plans. So Kumble used to analyse our mistakes and give us inputs on where we could improve. He was quite frank about his views and I never felt that the dressing room atmosphere was tense under him. We shared a very open relationship.
 
 
 
 
 Shastri has a very positive mindset and is a great motivator. He shares a good rapport with every member of the squad and that helps in improving the dressing room atmosphere. This also encourages the players to give their best. It will be fun to work with him.
 
