A new day, and it starts with Shakthi discussing with Arav about Gaythari being scared of Julie. He reveals that   has been giving him hints that she is scared that she will feel bad if she gets eliminated before  , who is confident of making it to 100 days in the   House. 
 
  
 Meanwhile,   is talking about Bharani to Ganja Karupu. He shares that Bharani came to him and asked to send him out of the house this weekend. They then feel for Snehan who is working in the kitchen all alone. They are upset with the fact that none of the other from the cooking team is there to help him. 
  
  
  is full of energy and she is seen discussing with other in the bedroom on what dress she could wear. She says she is in love mood and wants to wear something romantic. While   suggests to wear a saree, Oviya doesn't know to wear it and hasn't brought one either. Finally she decides to wear a salwar kameez with all the other traditional accessories. 
  
  
 Adding drama to the show, Gayathri is on a hunger strike until she gets chocolate powder so she can have chocolate milk everyday in the morning just like others have coffee or tea. She explains this to Bigg Boss when she is summoned to the confession room, but her request is denied stating that coffee and tea are also luxury items that we bought during the luxury budget task. 
  
  
 Oviya shows her dress to the ladies in the house and then goes to spend time with Arav. Gayathri and Raiza are seen requesting for nice boys to be sent into the house for them as well. Looks like Arav too has started to have some fun in the relationship with Oviya. He compliments her for her nice dress and says today is best she has looked so far and is looking gorgeous. 
  
  
 In the afternoon, Arav pull Gayathri from her bed and drags her to the dining table to have lunch. After not eating since the previous night, Gayahtri finally ends her hunger strike. Raiza, Gayathri and Harathi are seen having fun talking about Ganesh Venkatram on how he practices diligently for everything and is very serious about tasks.
  
  
 Later in the day, Gayathri is given the chocolate power she asked for by Bigg Boss, but he had revealed that it would affect the luxury budget points this week. Wondering how the housemates would take this, she has decided not to open the chocolate powder until the luxury budget points are revealed and will return it if this affects the points too much. But despite Bigg Boss saying that her calcium level from the blood reports are normal, she goes out and tells the housemates that the calcium level is very low and that is the reason she had been given the chocolate powder. 
  
  
 As a part of the luxury budget task, the housemates are split into three teams and celebrate the Bigg Boss school annual day. Snehan, the Head Master of the school will decide and distribute the prize. While the teams are preparing for their performance, Arav and Oviya are seen discussing about Harathi and how most people in the house are not happy with her. Oviya goes to say that Harathi is the one who is acting fake thinking that the audience want to see her doing comedy in the show, but her real face is the one where she got angry with Julie the previous day. 
  
  
 Raiza, Ganesh and Vaiyapuri form the singing team and perform on stage. While the dance team is made of Arav, Oviya, Shakthi and Gayathri, the skit team comprises of Harathi, Julie, Ganja Karupu and Bharani. Snehan announces the dance team as the best performing team and Shakthi & Raiza as the best students of the school. Oviya is given the best improving student in the house and Ganja Karupu is given the award for helping everyone. 
  
  
 After the event, Julie tries to clear any misunderstanding with Gayathri and even apologises if she had spoken without respect. Even then, Gayathri only tried to counter what ever Julie says and continue to blame her. Wonder why Julie is trying so hard to impress Gayathri and make friends with her. Meanwhile, Oviya tries to help Bharani who is upset with all that is happening with him in the house. 
 
  
 Julie later tries to clear things with Harathi, but even before she starts, Harathi is being her usual sarcastic tone with Julie. She continues to call her fake even when Julie tries to explain her that she is feeling bad about it. Harathi continues to be harsh and sarcastic and looks like she is in war with Julie. 
 
  
 Later in the night, the housemates are given daily task called 'Kitchen Kiladi', where they are split into two teams and supposed to cook one veg and non-veg dishes. Oviya, Raiza and Gayathri are the judges for the task and will announce the best cooking team after tasting the dishes. 
 
  
 Namitha, Snehan, Ganesh, Arav and Bharani form one team, while Ganja Karupu, Shakthi, Vaiyapuri, Harathi and Julie form the other team. While Ganja Karupu team cooked Beetroot Biriyani, Paneer and Chicken, Namitha's team wins the task for the taste and presentation of their dishes of Chicken and Paneer. Later in the night, Julie narrates her conversation with Harathi to Gayathri. 
 
  
 What will happen in the weekend show? Who will be eliminated from the show? 
 
