CHENNAI: If destiny had had a different plan, patriotism could have made a soldier of   V P Dhananjayan. His attempt to run off to the army cantonment in Avadi was cut short by his teacher at Kalakshetra. But his love for the country brought out the creative best in him. It was in a fundraiser for the Indo-China war in 1962 that Dhananjayan, with his classmates at Kalakshetra, choreographed a   and   dance production ‘Aikyabharatam’. It was the first of the many innovative creations of the 78-year-old dance guru. And through it all was his critic, supporter and wife Shanta.

 “At Kalakshetra it was about the classical form, but I along with my friends came up with this programme of folk dance forms from Kashmir to Kanyakumari. We collected 10,000 from the ticket sales,” recalled the veteran dancer at a talk about the journey of the dancing couple — Dhananjayans — on Saturday. The talk, ‘The Artist’s Soul’, a series of 90-minute conversations curated by author AVIS Viswanathan at Wandering Artist, a cultural space.
 
 A partnership on stage for 65 years and counting, the couple credit their passion for dance (or natyam as they call it) for their seamless chemistry, and enduring relationship. “Married for more than 50 years, we still have a good understanding because we grew up together at Kalakshetra and most importantly we know each other’s strong points,” said 74-year-old Shanta. She was the first girl 13-year-old Dhananjayan met when he joined Kalakshetra in 1953. Somewhere between playing Ram and Sita and reading the Upanishads at Kalakshetra, their love blossomed, and out of it were born two artists who shared a passion for the art form.
 
 Despite their bond with Kalakshetra, they moved on to break new ground through collaborations, group performances and paid performances. “I believe that art is a profession and the artist should be paid remuneration. So I began performing at marriages and conferences. I considered myself as an art entrepreneur but others accused me of marketing,” said Dhananjayan, whose dance school   -- in its 49th year -- is known for its unique abhinaya, costumes and style. The school, which started with one student, went on to make internationally renowned productions like the Jungle Book for the Ohio Ballet Company and Pandit Ravi Shankar’s magnum opus ‘Ghanashyam’.
 
 Although artists first, the creative crossroads strengthened their bond as husband and wife as well. “I like to call myself the architect and planner and she is the engineer who executes the idea,” said Dhananjayan with a laugh.
 
