CHENNAI: The cobbler’s beedi break and the flower seller’s afternoon banter in this largely working-class constituency are focused on the ongoing political crisis. While residents here are not sure who should lead the   or become the chief minister, many reject the newly appointed party general secretary, V K  . Two months after her demise, it is Jayalalithaa who still occupies the hearts and minds of RK Nagar’s voters. 

  Prema, a popular bajji seller round the corner of one of the slums, and a contented beneficiary of Jayalalithaa’s freebies, says, “We voted for Amma. And during all the times she visited us, Sasikala was always in the shadows. Not once was she promoted by Amma as someone we should recognise as our leader.”
 
 The only memory RK Nagar residents wish to nurture – and, to a large extent, hold conclusive – are the times that Jayalalithaa spent amidst them, promising them alternative housing to the asbestos maze they’ve built and rebuilt several times in the last few decades, and are currently huddled into. 
 
 “She visited us thrice. We told her that our tar sheet homes were repeatedly catching fire and she assured us of new, concrete homes. But barely months later, she passed away. Now, we’re not getting anywhere out of this slum,” says a disgruntled senior citizen living in the neighbourhood. “In fact, since her death, we haven’t even received our pensions and the ration we previously did,” she adds.
 
 Formed in 1967, RK Nagar rose as critical ground for the AIADMK in the by-election held in 2015, after Jayalalithaa’s acquittal in the disproportionate assets case. She won by a margin of 1.5 lakh votes that year. A second victory — although by a smaller vote share due to the DMK’s entry into the fray — reinstated her position in the 2016 assembly elections. The former AIADMK chief responded by giving the constituency a facelift with several infrastructure and civic benefits. For the poor residents of the late chief minister’s pet constituency – also its principal demographic – life thrived solely in her shadow and now stands stagnated in her death.
 
 Acting chief ministerO Panneerselvam’s unexpected outburst on Tuesday night may have spurred the future of the politicos into uncertainty, and even managed to trickle on to the collective conscience of the passion-driven RK Nagar voters, but he still seems to hold lesser credibility than Deepa Jayakumar, whose seeming role play of the late chief minister has tugged at their heartstrings. “She looks just like Amma, talks like her and therefore understands her wishes for us,” they say.
 
 However, Shimla Muthuchozhan, propaganda secretary of the DMK’s women's wing and the candidate who faced Jayalalithaa from RK Nagar in the assembly election in May 2016, is a naysayer who stands her ground.
 
 “People here voted for the AIADMK, hoping that as the chief minister’s own constituency, it would witness exponential growth. We in the DMK have clear targets marked for the area; it continues to have no proper housing or drinking water, which is contaminated by the petroleum factories present in the area. Homes with thatched roofs frequently catch fire and there is a dire need to bring in the housing board,” she says, and adds, “It is also the only constituency within city limits that continues to have a railway crossing. We had repeatedly allotted funds for the construction of a flyover and it’s still struggling to be materialised,” she says.
 
 
