The latest season   is on air, and since its launch three weeks ago, one person who has been wowing everyone with his performance is the lively   saab. Be it on the small screen or social media, he is being widely appreciated and has already amassed a sizable fan following. All of 22, Mahboob is visually impaired but he never let it become an impediment in his life.
 “I was born blind. But music became my window to the world. Even as a child, I used to hum film songs that played on the radio. Once I turned nine, an uncle who is also a music teacher, did a voice test for me. He declared me good enough to pursue it full time and I joined an ashram in Davangere to learn music,” shares Mahboob. His forte is Hindustani classical music and it became such a passion that he even passed up going to school preferring to dedicate all his time to the craft. “My guru Putraju is visually-impaired, too. But he is clearly one of the best teachers I could have got. He’d wake us up at 4 am to practise our music and it is his dedication that has brought me such a long way,” says he.
  So how did a traditional music lover like him find himself on a reality show like Sa Re Ga Ma Pa? “Music has no boundaries. I have been following all the seasons of Sa Re Ga Ma Pa and every time I heard a contestant sing, my mind and soul would come alive with various emotions. Music has the ability to touch you in indescribable ways. I had made up my mind a long time ago to participate in this show, but due to certain constraints, I couldn’t make it earlier. I’m so glad that I’ve finally made it here,” Mahboob tells us.
  For those who may have the slightest doubt about whether him being visually impaired has ever denied him access to higher learning or opportunities, Mahboob says a firm no. “For music is all about feeling it from within. I listen to it with not just my ears, but my whole body. It is what helps me give my performances. Everyone has been really encouraging and the society has never ever made me feel like I lack something. And that is what I’d like to tell fellow music lovers who may have a condition like me — don’t ever underestimate yourself. You have to be able to see beyond the obvious; vision has nothing to do with music. Put your soul into it and you’ll see the difference,” sums up Mahboob who dreams of opening his own music academy one day.
