ETAWAH/BHARTHANA/JASWANTNAGAR: The   faces tough challenge from its arch rivals   and   in Etawah, Bharthana and Jaswantnagar seats. 

 While SP president and chief minister  , through his speech on Thursday at Numaish Maidan in Eatwah, undoubtedly made an attempt to bring all Samajwadis on a common platform appealing supporters to "give more speed to the cycle", only time will tell whether the party is able to save its fortresses amidst ongoing family feud and resentment over ticket distribution.
 
 In all the three assembly segments, the SP has galvanized resources to ensure smooth sailing for its candidates, who are facing tough challenge from both BSP and BJP. With speculation on election mood dominating bazaar conversations, there are many who say it won't be surprising if the result is a shocker for the SP camp. Even a victory with a sender margin would be akin to defeat because SP had wiped out its rivals in all the three seats of the district in the 2012 assembly polls.
 
 Both BJP and BSP camps, meanwhile, are of the view that their candidates would be a winner either way. This is because SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, who had only held a public meeting for his brother Shivpal Singh Yadav in Jaswantnagar assembly seat, is likely to dent the prospects of the party and BJP will be emerging the biggest force in this assembly elections. 
 
 BJP had won Etawah in 2014 LS polls with a margin of over 1.75 lakh votes.
 
 "These three seats have always been an asset for SP when its candidates were successful in getting the combined support of either upper caste and Dalits or Yadav and Muslims. If BJP gets the advantage of Modi wave, if any, SP can land in soup," said R K Mishra, a resident of Bhram Nagar in Barthana.
 
 Local residents are also of the view that SP could have easily won but for the lack of development projects and the negative impact over law and order situation. "Though SP has sizeable strength of Mulayam, Akhilesh and Shivpal fan-following, it is facing internal bickering that could spoil its prospects," feel people.
 
 Putting development of Safai Medical University, Para-medical & Nursing College, Trauma Centre and Burns units aside, residents claim "unemployment, undeveloped villages and law and order still remain the prominent issues of people in all the three assembly seats".
 
 A young leader and BJP candidate, Manish Yadav alias Patre, too is giving sleepless night to former PWD minister.
 
 
