After my first film, none of the actors in the industry expressed any interest in working with me. Most of them thought that I would only direct bittu padams,” begins director  , who is pretty confident that his second film with STR will break all preconceived notions about him in the industry. In this chat with us, Adhik opens up on how supportive   has been, right from his debut film, why he has decided to release   ( ) in two parts, and more… 
 
 
 Actually, a lot of producers were ready to fund my second film as TIN did well at the box office. But then, the heroes were quite hesitant to be a part of my film, as they thought that I am capable of only directing ‘A’ films. It was only Simbu who kept encouraging me, even from my TIN days. And he gave me this opportunity to prove what I am actually capable of.
 
 
 I made TIN only to make the industry take notice of me. That’s not my favourite genre. Moreover, I can’t ask big heroes to deliver vulgar dialogues; they will not agree. I want to direct out-and-out commercial films and be in the league of KS Ravikumar sir, SP Muthuraman sir, and P Vasu sir. My debut film had double-meaning dialogues, I agree, but I did not show my heroines or female artistes in a degrading way. My films will never have skin shows or vulgarity in visuals. 
 
 
 When Simbu was going through that tough phase following the Beep Song controversy, I sent him a long message saying, ‘You have faced a lot in life. These issues are nothing when compared to them. I am there for you and I am looking forward to working with you soon.’ He replied, saying, ‘God bless. Kandippa.’ The next day, he called me for a discussion, listened to my script, and okayed it immediately, as he was completely impressed with it. Simbu was supposed to do a remake film with producer Michael Rayappan, and that didn’t kick off. So, they decided to sign me for their new project. 
  
 
 Simbu is always surrounded by some controversy or the other. After my first film, I was in the midst of a controversy, too. When both of us decided to work together, we intentionally decided to create hype. That’s how we came up with this title. But unlike TIN, this film will be a commercial entertainer. Like how Annamalai was for Rajini, and Thirumalai was for Vijay, AAA will be for STR.
 
 
 I understand if people talk about him not coming to film sets on time, but I don’t know why people are commenting on Simbu coming to the sets on time. Many seem to have a problem with whatever he does. Ozhunga varadhu kooda prechanaiya? Every artiste should be given space for them to understand the director’s vision. I gave Simbu that comfort zone.
 
 
 Who said this film has adult content? I can’t reveal the surprise now, but you need to wait for the film. Also, I have to say that none of the heroes will have the guts to say dialogues that have a connect with their personal life. But Simbu said those without any hesitation. His dialogue, comparing himself with his dad, is a huge hit now. 
 
 
 Releasing the film in two parts was not our initial plan. We promoted the film saying that it will have Simbu playing three characters, but then, Simbu himself revealed on live chat with fans that he will be seen in four roles. I asked him, Enna thalaiva, surprise-a odachitingalae, and he immediately told me that he has other plans. That’s how this idea of releasing the film in two parts came up. I’m sure producers and distributors are happy about it. We have completed the shoot of the film. Only some patch work is left now, mainly because we decided to release it in two parts. 
 
