Rajeev.Mani@timesgroup.com 

 Allahabad: Raja Bhagirath brought Ganga to earth through his worship. These modern day Bhagiraths are making efforts to bring back the Sangam to its original position. With the Magh Mela starting from January 12, the flood control department and the PWD have taken up the task of bringing the confluence of the two river back to its original position. 
 
 The confluence has drifted several metres away (towards Jhunsi side) from the place it used to be a month back. For this task, the flood control department has pressed into service the JCB which is busy removing the silt along the ghats of Ganga (south of the Mahaveer pontoon bridge) so that the devotees get ample water to bathe near the ghats. The silt would be removed from the bed of the river. It would have two benefits, one, the devotees will have more depth for bathing and secondly, the confluence of the two river will move back towards west side (near the place where it lies throughout the year), executive engineer of the flood control department, Monoj Kumar Singh explained. 
 
 Although the officials know that the confluence will not be come back fully to its original place, but they are confident that the distance of the present position of Sangam would be shortened by several metres. “As of now, the devotees and the boatman have to cover an additional distance of around 1 km to reach the new confluence. But after our efforts, the distance will come down drastically,” Singh said. 
 
 Because of the strong currents and the continued erosion by Ganga, traffic at the pontoon bridge at Kali Marg was stopped last week because of which the PWD has started taking precautionary steps. For the purpose, the department is increasing the approach of the Mahaveer Road. “We are adding two more pontoon bridges on the city side approach of the Mahaveer pontoon bridge to have an extended approach. There will not be any problem even if the volume of water increases in the coming days,” he added. 
 
 In order to counter the erosion, carpenters are making crates made of bamboo and tree trunks placing them carefully at selected points on the banks where erosion is taking place. Till now, more than 100 crates have been placed. 
 
 “The currents are too strong and because of constant erosion, we are keeping a constant vigil and have moved behind for safety,” Mahant Ramdas, a prominent seer of Khat Chowk Samiti said. 
 
 
