GURUGRAM: Two women, including a techie, allegedly committed suicide in the city in the last two days over dowry-related harassment. 

  (24), originally from Kaithal, worked in an IT company. She was found hanging from the ceiling fan of her room at her Sector 9A home by her husband, who had just returned from work. By the time she was taken to the hospital, she had already died. 
 
 An FIR has been registered against the husband and her parents-in-law. The husband has been arrested after Anuradha’s parents, who live in Kaithal, told the police that he and his parents have allegedly been demanding dowry since the two got married in 2013.
 
 On Thursday morning, Anuradha had returned from work around 10 am from her night shift. In the evening around 4 when Anuradha’s husband, Ajay, returned home from work, he knocked on the door, but there was no response. Thinking Anuradha may have gone out, her husband went to play football, only to come back again at 8 pm. This time, too, there was no response, becoming suspicious, he forced the door open to find his wife hanging from the ceiling fan with the help of a dupatta. Cops were informed immediately.
 
  On the basis of the complaint of Bansi Lal, Anuradha’s father, a case has been registered against the husband, father-in-law, mother-in-law, sister and sister’s husband under sections 304B (dowry death) and 34 (common intent) of IPC at Sector 9A police station.
 
 “We have registered a case on the basis of the complaint of the victim’s father. The husband, Ajay, has been arrested. Investigations are on,” said Bijender Singh, SHO, Sector 9A police station.
 
 On the same night, another 24-year-old woman, Tabasum, allegedly committed suicide in Sakatpur village, also over alleged dowry demands, according to her family. Tabasum, a native of Salmba in Nuh, lived with her husband Astaf (29) in Sakatpur.
 
 The police informed that Tabasum was found dead in her house on Thursday evening. Her father Sarajuddin, told the police after the couple got married in 2013, the family started harassing the woman for dowry. According to him, they used to send Tabasum back to their house, demanding a Bolero. After one instance of violence, the two parties were called for a settlement in front of the panchayat, but the violence continued, Sarajuddin told the police. A case has been filed against the husband, a staf, and five other people, including the parents-in-law. No arrest has been made so far.
 
 
