CHANDIGARH: The trial in the murder cases of former manager of   Sacha Sauda (DSS) Ranjeet Singh and journalist Ram Chander Chhatterapati, who had first published reports about two sadhvis’ rapes inside dera chief   Singh’s gufa in 2002, took a curious turn on Saturday with three accused persons moving several fresh applications before the special   court at Panchkula seeking reinvestigation.

 The murder cases are in the final stages of trial now and the dera chief, who was recently awarded 20-year jail term for raping the two sadhvis, is an accused in both the crimes.
 
 Both Chhatterapati and Ranjeet Singh were murdered in 2002 and these cases were also probed by the CBI.
 
 The 106-page fresh applications, moved by the three accused Kuldeep Singh, Nirmal Singh and Krishan Lal, have also sought fresh inspection of the crime spots “for a fair trial”.
 
 However, Gurmeet Ram Rahim has not sought a fresh probe.
 
 The plea moved by Krishan Lal, an accused in Ranjeet Singh murder case, has sought inspection of the spot near Kurukshetra town, from where, according to prosecution witness Raj Pal, the accused got into a car after shooting Ranjeet. “Inspection of spot/road and its side from the agricultural field will clarify that the witness was pressed into service by the CBI to depose falsely,” says the application.
 
 Another application, moved by Kuldeep and Nirmal, both accused in Chhatterapati case, sought inspection of the spot where Chhatterapati was shot and the distance from there to Hanuman Mandir, where then police post incharge sub-inspector   noted down the complaint on a statement by the deceased’s 13-year-old son Aridaman.
 
 “It will be duly appreciated that by no yardstick of reasonability the name of accused Kuldeep and Nirmal would have been mentioned in the complaint recorded at Hanuman Temple without due concurrence, rather a conspiracy, of certain vested interest against the accused persons and dera people,” the application said.
 
 It has also been claimed that the 13-year-old complainant may describe the incident as to who shot whom, but it is unlikely that he would remember the names and specific actions of alleged assailant under a traumatic state of mind without the help of other sources.
 
 The plea also sought further examination of Aridaman and CBI officers Arman Deep Singh, Satish Dagar, then DIG M Narayana and SI Vijay Singh.
 
 Yet another application by Kuldeep and Nirmal urged the court to order further investigation into the case “to bring out real and unvarnished truth” in the case.
 
 Claiming that all is not well with the entire investigation, it has been alleged that CBI officials committed a crime against truth to subvert fair probe and implicated Gurmeet Singh and the other accused.
 
 When asked about the filing of multiple applications at this stage of the trial, the accused’s counsel Bankim Kulshrestha told TOI that further examination is extremely essential to help the court come to a fair decision.
 
 However, CBI counsel H P S Verma said the accused can move any application. Advocate Kulshrestha has written to the Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana high court last week, submitting that “there is a legitimate apprehension that given the commonality of constructs of all cases and CBI inquiry into these cases, the guilty verdict already handed down in one case on August 25, 2017, the defendants would be faced with a presumption of culpability . This is a Kafkaesque situation“.
 
