By 
 

 Somnath Jha, a retired major general of the Indian army, the   is a   that have lost their lives in  
 
 Jha who started on the epic journey on October 19 last year has already covered 18 states, with Karnataka being the 19th.
 
 Speaking about the main objective of the mission, Jha, who retired from the army in September last year, said he wanted to honour the martyred soldiers (20,600 at last count) who have made the country worth living in.
 
 “There are so many soldiers who hasacrificed their lives for us and before I completely hang my boots, I wanted to go on a last mission and this time not for the country, but for the people who made the country worth living in,” said Maj. Gen Jha who reached Bengaluru on February 1.
 
 Before setting off on the journey, Jha set up a couple of mandates for himself.
 
 “I have two mandates that I am determined on following – I will be cycling for two minutes for every fallen soldier and I am going to cover the entire country by travelling to all the 29 states by cycling.”
 
 Maj Gen. Jha was in the infantry and witnessed many combat situations that have left scars on his life that will be hard to get rid of.
 
 “Being a part of the infantry, I have seen many peers and friends fall in front of my eyes and have occasionally carried their injured bodies on my shoulders, which for a human being is never an easy esxperience to forget. So, before I put my military career behind, I wanted to take up this last mission for all my fellow army men across the nation.” Jha has decided to dedicate 42,000 minutes of his ride to the 21,000 fallen soldiers.
 
 “The number of kilometers that I will be cycling will add up to 12,000. But while I am riding alone, I have a team of three members consisting of two boys that drive behind me and help me with my requirements. My wife has been supporting me throughout,” Maj. Gen. Jha said.
 
 Jha has decided to take a break for a couple of days before resuming with his tour. “Both my body as well as my cycle need some rest and hence our maintenance stop would be somewhere in Bengaluru,” he said.
 
 His estimate of completing his journey within seven months was pre-planned as his friends and acquaintances made arrangements for his stay everywhere he went.
 “I have planned my journey in such a manner that I don’t have to cycle at night and I have many friends who had made arrangements for our stay,” he said.
 
 Maj. Gen.   has already paid homage to 10,000 soldiers and takes pride in his mission.
 
