PATTAN (BARAMULLA): Over 2,000 youths in their twenties travelled all the way from South Kashmir's Anantnag to take part in the   recruitment drive that was held on Tuesday at Haiderbeig camp in Pattan in Baramulla district of North Kashmir. The development assumes a major significance as separatists have been asking the people of the Valley to oppose the Indian forces. Three thousand youths from Anantnag had registered for the rally. 

 Brig J S Samyal, deputy director general recruiting (  and J&K), who was present on the occasion said the rally is a step by the Army to ameliorate the condition of unemployed youth of the Kashmir region. The huge turnout for recruitment reflects the level of motivation and patriotism amongst the youth of Kashmir region, he said, adding that said more such rallies would be held to give greater opportunity to all aspirants of the state.
 
 Aijaz Ahmad from Anantnag, who came for the recruitment drive with a plus-two qualification, said "I was also part of stone pelting mobs in 2016, so I don't feel any threat from those fellows. I don't fear anybody. I have to seek an Army job because we don't have avenues in other sectors of the government," Aijaz said.
 
 Saahil Ahmad, a BA second year student, said, "I have a family to look after and without job cannot survive. Frequent stone pelting back home cannot deter me from seeking a job in the Army."
 
 The youths would be screened for their physical fitness, medical examination and documentation. 
 
 Recruitment officer Col. Kapil Kumar told TOI that 3,000 youths from Anantnag district had registered for the job camp, but only 2,186 could make it due to heavy rainfall in the Valley on Tuesday. Kumar said, 426 candidates have qualified.
 
 He said, there are over 1,000 posts in several categories for which 18,931 candidates have registered.
 
 Col. Kapil said while candidates from Anantnag appeared for tests on Tuesday, youths from   and Srinagar are required to come on Wednesday. Candidates from Bandipora, Shopian, Budgam, Pulwama, Kupwara, Baramulla and Ganderbal will appear for tests held from Tuesday till April 12,   added. The common entrance examination of those candidates who pass the three stages of screening will be held on May 28.
 
  (With inputs from agencies) 
 
 
