AHMEDABAD: The CBI carried out searches at 16 locations in the city on Friday in connection with the   of   worth Rs 100.57 crore in accounts of   in   CBI sources said cases had been registered against 12 persons, including three top Axis Bank officials of the Memnagar branch — operations head Abhimanyusingh Naruka, branch manager Yashkumari Mehta, and customer relationship officer Rita Kumari.

 The other nine persons named are Sanjay Soni,  , Samirbhai,  , Jaydeepbhai, J D Sharaf, Afzal, Kiran Parekh, and Hitesh Parekh. “Searches were conducted at offices and residential premises of the accused persons,” said a senior CBI official. “We have seized some incriminating documents.” Earlier, the the enforcement directorate and the income tax department had probed the matter. 
 
 According to CBI sources, bank officials allegedly abused their position by allowing unauthorized transactions of huge amounts, between November and December last year, in accounts of shell companies in violation of Know Your Customer (KYC) norms, anti-money laundering laws, and other banking guidelines. CBI sources said the persons shown as the owners of the companies do not appear to be so, from their financial status as well as other parameters. They were reportedly depositing old notes for a commission.
 
 CBI officials said it has come to light during investigation that one person deposited huge amounts in the bank several times during a single day by submitting multiple deposit slips mentioning amounts less than Rs 9 lakh to avoid scrutiny. “The deposits were immediately transferred to the accounts of bullion traders and jewellers, ” said the CBI official. “Most slips bear forged signatures of account holders, an important detail which was overlooked by the accused bank officials.”
 
 Deposit slips for Rs 13 cr are missing
 
 CBI sources said that cash deposit slips for approximately Rs 13 crore were not available with the bank. “This shows the involvement of the three bank officials in the scam,” said a CBI source.
 
 Unaccounted for wealth not disclosed
 
 The CBI has said that the accused in the scam, in active connivance with bank officials, had allegedly failed to disclose their unaccounted for wealth, which they could have under amnesty schemes declared by the Government of India. The CBI said that the accused converted black money into white by misusing banking channels. 
 
