PUNE: The famous small onions commonly used in   and grown in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh may soon be grown in places like Maharashtra and Gujarat as well. What’s more, it may also be sweeter and better than the current crop. 

 The Directorate of Onion and   (DOGR) of the   (ICAR) has developed a new onion variety called ‘multiplier onion variety,’ which would make this possible. 
 
 It is presently undergoing tests at multiple locations in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat to evaluate its performance in different weather conditions. Scientists said initial findings of the tests are positive and have achieved the desired results so far. 
 
 They added that the variety is expected to be released nationwide in 2019.
 
 Project leader Amar Jeet Gupta of DOGR told TOI, “There is no special variety of onion for south Indian dishes that has been released at the national level. So far, farmers of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh are cultivating varieties developed by Tamil Nadu Agriculture University (TNAU). But the yield of these varieties is limited. Hence, we decided to develop the special variety, which can be recommended at national-level for other states farmers to grow it.”
 
 The variety, named DOGR-1549-Agg, is the first multiplier onion genotype registered with the ICAR-NBPGR ( ) in New Delhi.
 
 Commenting on the variety’s strength, Gupta said, “It matures early and is suitable for both Kharif (July-October) and Rabi (October-March) seasons. It has an average yield potential of 22 tonnes to 24 tonnes per hectare.” Gupta added that the variety has six small bulbs per cluster.
 
 Presently, farmers in South India are growing TNAU-developed onion variety called CO(On)5, which can grow only in Rabi season and has a yield capacity of 18.9 tonnes per hectare. Each cluster of this variety produces three to five bulbs, Gupta said.
 
 TNAU’s horticulture department head T Saraswati told TOI, “This is a positive development for growers as they can get high harvest. Secondly, if this variety is released nationally, states other than the southern ones can also grow it.”
 
 When specifically asked about the taste of the newly-developed variety, Gupta said, “Total Soluble Solids (TSS) is a crucial factor as it defines sugar percentage in the onion. The TSS of CO(On)5 is around 12%, whereas TSS in our variety is between 16% and 22%. Hence, it will be suitable for South Indian dishes.”
 
