KOCHI: The tourism department will tie-up with NGOs for cleaning and upkeep of important tourist destinations in a systematized and structured manner.

 Clean Kochi Foundation, an NGO formed by the   police and business owners, has been involved in regular beach cleaning activities in Fort Kochi and will associate with the district tourism promotion council (DTPC) for protection and improvement of the environment.
 
 “The department of tourism is set to have a permanent system to sustain the Clean Fort Kochi Foundation. Expression of interest (EOI) has also been called from NGOs and associations for professional support and partnership to execute the cleaning and greening initiative on a 24x7 basis as a part of ‘Clean Destination’ campaign by the tourism department,” Vijayakumar S,   secretary, said.
 
 The foundation has been carrying out regular cleaning activities on Saturdays. It has been successful in mobilizing the public in and around the city to contribute towards the same and bringing vendors on board along with its members making rounds to prevent garbage dumping in the area.
 
 The EoI, invited on Friday, will be receiving responses till August 7.
 
 “The Cochin Shipyard Ltd has also expressed interest in providing support under their CSR initiative,” Vijayakumar said. 
 
 The objective of the EoI is to execute cleaning activities on a 24x7 basis at   area, public spaces like the parks and walkway around the area, in a professional and sustainable manner. This is to ensure ‘Destination Fort Kochi’ as a model clean and green heritage beach destination. The secretary stated that for the cleaning activities, the DTPC and Cochin Heritage Zone Conservation Society, will provide workers, who will be given professional training.
 
 Sufficient trained housekeeping supervisors shall also be deployed at sites depending on the nature and scope of cleaning works required at the destination.
 
 The selected organization will be requested to carry out the work for a period of three months on an experimental basis and further period of operation will be extended for a minimum of three years.
 
