A woman plays a plethora of roles & this can be overwhelming at times. Of all the roles, the key one is that of being a Mother. While Motherhood is one of the biggest boons to Women it’s a crucial & demanding role. A Mother is known to be the epitome of sacrifice, selfless love, nurturance & support. 

  It’s that time of the year again when we can celebrate the biggest blessing of one’s life- Mother. A mother always put her family & loved ones first, hence, however, in the process of balancing her home & family she often overlooks her health. The focus on women’s health has increased fourfold in the last decade and rightly so. No matter how many times it is discussed; women’s overall wellness deserves all the awareness it gets and more.
 
  Right from her childhood through puberty, teenage, marriage, pregnancy, post-pregnancy and menopause - a woman’s body and mind undergo innumerable changes. With unprecedented changes in our lifestyles today, the repercussions are first seen on our health and body. It is therefore vital to know the right ways in which a woman can keep staying ‘well’, through all the physiological and psychological alterations in her lifetime
 
  Some of the common lifestyle diseases that affect women are:
 
 
 
  Lifestyle diseases can stem from factors such as Lack of exercise, poor nutrition, mental health etc. A wellness getaway is the perfect way to celebrate love for your mother. Everyone needs a vacation now & then and mothers deserves it the most. A day full of activities such as Zumba, Yoga, Spa, meditation, gardening, treks etc would help your mom unwind from the hassles of daily life. A wellness retreat is a holistic approach to health & well-being. It helps integrate the mind, body & soul. This experience would leave your Mom empowered & re-energized. 
 
  A wellness getaway with customized fitness plans which are right for her & healthy cuisine prepared will leave her transformed. Mothers often forget to pamper themselves & what better than them indulging in a unwinding spa treatment. There are tons of spa treatments available such as Master Cleanse Spa,  ,   etc Many-a-times mothers forget about their health & a wellness retreat could just be the perfect experience to re-focus on health & overall welfare. Activities such as swimming and meditation bring a state of tranquility. So make your Mom feel very special this Mother’s Day by gifting a wellness retreat.
 
  
 
 
 
