CHANDRAPUR/ NAGPUR: A tiger killed a   posted near Tadoba Lake by   (FDCM) inside   (TATR) on Thursday morning. This prompted warnings by experts, urging tourists not to get too close to tigers.

 This is the first death of a forest employee in a tiger attack inside TATR in at least a decade. Victim Mangal Choudhari (45), a native of rehabilitated Navegaon village in Chimur tehsil, had been working with FDCM as fire-watcher in Tadoba for more than 15 years.
 
 Mangal was killed by a tiger early in the morning when he and two others had gone to attend nature’s call near Tadoba Lake. Coincidently, the attack took place when volunteers participating in waterhole census were still on their machans near the site. 
 
 The news of the tiger attack went viral on social media, with people linking it to the machan census, since Mangal was on a machan and was attacked when he got down to attend nature’s call.
 
 However, GP Garad, chief conservator of forests (CCF) & field director of TATR, said the place where the attack took place is not visible from any of the machans around the lake. He also dubbed reports of Mangal being engaged in the census as baseless. “How can we deploy a fire-watcher for census work?” he asked.
 
 FDCM shoulders the responsibility of controlling forest fires in TATR. Mangal’s job was to keep a watch on forest fires. He used to live with two other watchers in quarters near the lake.
 
 Garad said the two fellow fire-watchers were witness to the attack. The tiger attacked Mangal and dragged him over 100 metres into the forest, where staff later discovered his body. The body was taken to Chimur rural hospital for post mortem and then handed over to his kin.
 
 Garad admitted that open defecation is wrong. “We have built toilets for these staff. I fail to understand why they went into the open. This is a regular practice it seems,” he said.
 
 Reacting to the incident, Bilal Habib, tiger scientist from   (WII), who has worked extensively in Tadoba, said, “It is just an accident and not conflict. The victim was attacked since he came in critical distance of the tiger.”
 
 “At the end of the day, I would now suggest that tourists should restrain themselves by not going too close to the tigers, who have for the first time learnt that they can kill a man. Till now, they were only familiar with people walking and Gypsys. We never know what is in their mind,” said Habib.
 
 Habib said tigress Maya and Matkasur are mating these days. There should be restraint by tourist vehicles. “We should not at all consider them as friendly,” he said.
 
 Wildlife conservationist Kishor Rithe said the issue raises many questions. “Public should not be allowed in high tiger density area like Tadoba for machan census.”
 
 In the meanwhile, forest officials released Rs25,000 as ex gratia to the victim’s family for last rites. FDCM officers said the victim’s family will get service benefits while TATR authorities will look into monetary compensation formalities.
 
 This is the ninth death in tiger attacks in the forest areas in the district this year. Summer being high season for tendu leaves and mahua flower collection, incidents of humans being attacked by tiger are on the rise. Forest department has warned people against venturing deep into the forest.
 
 
