DHANERA: When   saw four bodies of Popatlal Joshi’s family in Barotwas from the rooftop, tears welled up in his eyes, but he was also seething in anger. Despite being persuaded by Kapdi and other neigjbours to move out before floods, Popatlal and his family members remained adamant and refused to budge from their house. 

 Ultimately, Popatlal (46), his wife   (42), daughter Bhavna (25) and her son   met the watery grave inside their house. 
 
 “When I knocked their door and fervently appealed them to come along with us to safer place, his wife threatened to call the police. An alert was issued after waters of Banas started swelling dangerously on July 25, but they refused to heed and said they were leaving it to their fate,” recalls their next door neighbour Kapdi. 
 
 In fact, when the water levels started rising in the town, Kapdi and Soneji Barot, a prominent person in the town, again went to Joshi’s house and furiously knocked the door asking them to move out quickly. “But no one answered for a long time and ulimately we gave up and left the place,” Barot said. 
 
 “When waters receded, we came back to the town, but Joshis were nowhere to be seen. As their house was locked,   climbed the roof and broke it only to see their bodies,” Barot said.
 
 Joshi, a native of Rajasthan, was living in Dhanera for many years. He was a priest in the temple, but had quit about a year-and-a-half back. The family on lived on the alms he received in the form of food grains, flour and cash, Barot said.
 
 The death of Joshi family has raised a complicated compensation situation for the district administration. “Bhavna was a divorcee and her husband lives in Rajasthan. If he stakes claim to compensation, we have to give him because he is the legal father of the couple’s son. But Bhavna’s brother, who is a peon in local municipality, can also claim the compensation,” assistant collector, Banaskantha, Dr Navnath Gavhane said.
 
 The death tragedy is not limited to Barotwas locality. A farm labourer and his family Bhabhutram Mali were also swept away in the floods. The bodies of Mali, his wife Sharda (35) and daughters — Guddi (six years ) and Paapu (five years) — were recovered from the field near Dhanera railway crossing.
 
 Sources said this family from Jhalore in Rajasthan also did not heed to the warnings and slept in their hut at the farm. However, Sharda’s parents went along with the rescue team to safer places.
 
 Others who were swept away in the floods were identified as Parbatsinh Rajput (45), Ajba Patel (40), two-year-old boy Himmat Koli, Kumbhar Ravta (65), Aja Dhuniya (44), Sant Kishorekumar (16), Bhangari Samir (7) and Rajesh Thakor (39). Most of these victims lived near Dhanera railway station.
 
 “The flooding in river Banas was so much that the waters broke the railway underpass and inundated the entire town,” officials said.
 
 Dhanera, which gets an average 660 mm average annual rainfall, has received nearly double this monsoon. As many as 5,000-6,000 people were shifted in the nick of time, while another 450 rescued by various agencies.
 
 
