Three years after doctors told Jacinta that she would probably never be able to conceive, she experienced a miracle – but it was a fraught one. A fortnight after she gave birth to a 1.5- pound premature baby, via an emergency C-section, she found herself struggling with a feeling no parenting book prepared her for – she began to have thoughts of harming herself and her baby. Worried, Jacinta’s husband took her to a psychologist and that is when they discovered she was suffering from   ( ), which is a type of depression that occurs after childbirth. “This mood disorder affects new mothers within the first 24 hours of childbirth and can last up to one year,” says Dr Shilpa Agrawal, a consultant specialist in high-risk pregnancy and fetal medicine. 

    include sudden changes in weight, appetite or psychomotor activity, irregular sleep, decreased energy, feelings of worthlessness, difficulty in concentrating, loss of interest, recurrent thoughts of suicide, and even attempts to harm the baby.
 
 
 
  The role of a mother has been idealised to such an extent that there’s a stigma attached to conditions such as PPD. Agrawal says, “PPD can affect any mother – studies show that one to six Indian mothers per 1,00,000 births have ended their lives.” Care in the early postpartum period is crucial to ensure health and survival of the newborn and mother, yet the World Health Organisation reported that the postnatal period received less attention from healthcare professionals than the prenatal stage.
 
 
 
 
  Current research suggests that PPD has salient but selective effects on the mother-infant relationship, and also on child growth and development. Young children of mothers with PPD have greater cognitive, behavioural and interpersonal problems compared to children of non-depressed mothers. Agrawal says, “There are reports of a higher risk of serious emotional functional disability in children of mothers affected with PPD.”
 
  
  Accepting the fact that one is suffering from some form of depression and that things aren’t going the way they should is the first step towards battling PPD.
 
 
  Families must help mothers realise that it is a temporary phase. They should be cooperative and empathetic.
 
 
 Mothers should make themselves a priority and take frequent breaks from their new ‘mom duties’. 
 
 
 The idea that change doesn’t occur quickly is unacceptable to someone in desperate need of relief. But one has to deal with PPD patiently.
 
 Making women aware of postpartum depression is similar to preparing an army for battle. With better preparation comes greater resilience 
 — Dr Shefali Batra, cognitive therapist
 
 
 Model and social media maven Chrissy Teigen recently wrote a powerful essay on her struggles with PPD. She said: “I have a great life. I have all the help l could need...But postpartum does not discriminate: I couldn’t control it.”
 
 
 
 
