New Delhi: With a spurt in farmers' suicides in the recent past, the   on Thursday questioned the Centre's much-hyped crop insurance scheme but upon the intervention of attorney general K K Venugopal, it agreed that the problem was far too deep rooted to be solved overnight. 

 Appearing for NGO 'Citizen Resource and Action Initiative', senior advocate Colin Gonsalves said, "The PM Fasal Bima Yojana is an excellent policy but the implementation is lethargic as only 20% of farmers have been brought under its ambit. The government is not infusing enough funds for payment of insurance premiums and a large number of private insurance companies are not disbursing the assured amount to farmers in case of crop failure, leading to huge spurt in suicides."
 
 A bench of Chief Justice   and Justice D Y Chandrachud turned to Venugopal and said the government must focus on implementation of the insurance scheme. "It is agreed that what needs to be done is being done, but only on paper. We want results on the ground level. You (government) are moving in the right track but then why are suicides increasing?" the court asked.
 
 Venugopal said the insurance scheme was unveiled last year and within one year, 5.3 crore of the country's 12 crore farmers (44%) and 40% of the crop area had been covered. "This is a massive exercise. After the US and China, India has undertaken the largest crop insurance exercise. By 2018-19, the government expects to cover 50% of farmers and crop land. The insurance covers only those crops which the states notify. The states are equal partners in this scheme. They must pitch in to solve the age-old problem that has in the past forced farmers to approach money lenders, who squeezed them into indebtedness leading to suicide," the attorney general added.
 
 "The government is doing all within its means and power to prevent this centuries-old malaise (suicide by farmers). The Supreme Court appears to assume that all allegations made by the petitioners are correct. This scheme is just one year old. Allow some time to the government and then examine whether the rate of suicide has come down or not. What is the hurry for the court to bother so much about it?" Venugopal asked.
 
 The bench immediately brought the heat down and said, "It is not an adversarial hearing. There is a motive behind this hearing. The officials concerned must understand what is going on in the court hearing. Once they understand, they will be in a better position to implement the scheme."
 
 To further assuage the government, the bench said, "We are of the view that an issue as serious as this (farmers' suicides) cannot be dealt with overnight. The AG is justified in seeking time for the government to implement it."
 
 The SC asked the government to take into consideration the suggestions made by Gonsalves and  , the latter talking about the ground situation faced by farmers and formulating ways to implement the insurance scheme better, to make PMFBY effective.
 
 
