MADURAI: Warning that severe punishment would be meted out to the side which has given false information in the ongoing elderly couple-actor  , the   bench of the   on Friday asked the actor to reveal his identification marks to the court.

 “Dhanush’s side is directed to file an affidavit with regard to the actor’s identification marks, before it. One in a lakh people may have a same mole mark on their body. Scar may be created, but mole certainly not. One thing that the court wants to inform both the parties is that it would impose a severe punishment on the side which has given false information to the court,” the judge said and adjourned the case to February 22. 
 
  filed a petition seeking to quash the proceedings pending before the judicial magistrate court in Melur based on a case filed by a Madurai-based R Kathiresan, 65, and his wife Meenakshi, 53, seeking maintenance from the actor by claiming that he was born to them.
 
 On Friday, the actor’s side, as per an earlier direction of the court, produced a counterfoil of the transfer certificate claiming that the actor studied in a private school in Chennai, before Justice G Chockalingam. In the earlier hearing, it had filed a photocopy of the transfer certificate. It said the school did not have a column to mention the student’s identification marks. The couple’s side on the other hand had claimed that their son studied Class 11 in a private school in Tirupattur for one month but it refused to issue original transfer certificate. To this, the judge directed the school to provide original transfer certificate.
 
 The judge also said government schools are having a format to mention student’s identification marks in the transfer certificates and scrutinised the Class 10 transfer certificate produced by the couple, by which he came to know the identification marks of their son. According to it, there was a mole on the chin and scar on the left hand.
 
 Besides, the actor’s side produced the certificate of the Central Board of Film Certification for Dhanush-starred Tamil movie ‘Thulluvadho Ilamai’ released in May 2002 said the certificate would prove the couple made a false claim.
 
