JAIPUR: A minor scuffle over a traffic dispute took an ugly turn when a furious milkman smashed the head of a 36-year-old auto driver with a boulder in   town of   district.

 As the incident took place in a crowded market people witnessing the ugly confrontation were shocked the moment victim auto driver fainted. The accused milkman was apprehended while the auto driver who was profusely bleeding after severe head injury was rushed to the hospital. A day after the incident, the minor scuffle turned out to be a murder case when the auto driver succumbed in the hospital and milkman was arrested.
 
 The whole incident was captured on   in the market area which clearly indicated that minor argument was taken too seriously by both the victims, identified as   and the accused milkman, Hiralal (40). According to police at 8.30am, Mushtaq was taking a turn when his auto hit Hiralal’s bike, there was a small scratch on Hiralal’s bike which made him seething with anger.
 
 “At once, Hiralal sat on his bike to leave the place when he spotted Mushtaq holding a big screw driver. That’s when he thought it was a life threat and he too picked up a boulder lying on the road and smashed it on the head of Mushtaq,” said O P Godara, station house officer, Sardarshahar police station of Churu district.
 
 The accused milkman was immediately apprehended as per the video footage and even after this incident he appeared to be confused and clueless. “We have also seized the blood stained boulder which would be used as the prime evidence against the accused. We are also looking for independent witnesses who were seen at the market place when the incident took place. The accused is already been sent to the jail and now we are aiming at filing the charge-sheet in 10 days,” he added.
 
 Some locals have also alleged that local bodies should also ensure that boulders should not be lying on the road just like that. “At one end we talk about cleanliness and on the other hand we witness such shameful and shocking incidents in which a boulder became the prime weapon in a freak murder,” said  , a local at Sardarshahar town of Churu district.
 
