HYDERABAD: As if the initial Rs 50 crore (approx) spent on building the palatial structure wasn't enough, the government is now preparing to spend another Rs 8 lakh from the state coffers for the chief minister's camp office-cum-residence in Begumpet. This time, it's for the construction of 20   (RWH) pits within the premises.

 The decision has been taken based on the GHMC rule making it mandatory for buildings to have RWH pits. To kick-start the mega 'project', a team of senior officials from the water board -including R Srinivasa Rao, deputy general manager, Operations & Maintenance Division-VI (S R Nagar) and J Satyanarayana, officer on special duty (Rainwater Harvesting Structures wing) -recently visited the CM's house “to conduct a feasibility study for selection of suitable sites for construction of RWHs".
 
 Justifying the move, officials of the   politan   said that the sprawling home demanded 20 such structures. “Based on the study conducted on the nearly nine-acre land, we found that the premises is covered with `Red Sandy' soil followed by weathered, semi-weathered, fractured and hard grey granite. The roof area of three buildings, including CM's residence, multi-purpose conference hall and camp office is 4,500 square metres. We have taken the roof area, rainfall and formation of the area into consideration to identify the volume of the proposed RWH structures,“ J Satyanarayana told TOI.
 
 Out of 20, only 14 structures are recharge pits while the remaining six are recharge pits along with injection wells. We have earmarked the sites at different locations to construct them, he said.
 
 But who will foot the bill?
 Turns out, it's either the irri gation department or the water board itself. A final order is still awaited to ascertain the same, officials said.
 
 “Though water board has proposed the construction of the RWHs, it is only likely to help with the technical aspect of the project. However, the board is also ready to spend money if required. A final decision will be taken by the managing director of the board, M Dana Kishore,“ said Satyanarayana.
 
