KALIMPONG/DARJEELING: The death of a   worker — the ninth death in Darjeeling since June — and the Centre’s continuing “strategic silence”, despite the clearly worsening situation in the Hills, prompted Gorkhaland proponents to decide to take their agitation to Delhi from August and push the Bengal governor and the “friendly government” in Sikkim to take up the Gorkhaland statehood cause.

 The Gorkhaland Movement Coordination Committee (GMCC) will have its next meeting in Delhi on August 1 when it will start the next phase of its agitation, which will include a hunger strike and coincide with the Parliament’s monsoon session. Its leadership admitted that the shift to Delhi was prompted by the “increasing feeling of hopelessness and restlessness” at the Union government’s lack of any response to the agitation that would be entering its seventh week on Thursday.
 
 The decisions followed the death of Gorkha Janm-ukti Morcha supporter Ashish Tamang in Mirik late on Monday.   spokesperson Binay Tamang said the 36-year-old was killed in police firing after a clash between GJM and Trinamool supporters. “The police opened fire at GJM supporters near Mirik Market,” Binay said. The clash, he claimed, broke out after Morcha supporters demanded that seven Trinamool members of Mirik Municipality resign immediately. GJM president Bimal   termed Ashis another Gorkhaland martyr.
 
 Police officers, however, denied any firing. A large contingent of police rushed to the spot around 8 p.m. and charged tear gas shells to disperse the mob when the crowd started pelting stones. “Our forces baton-charged and lobbed tear gas shells,” a senior officer said.
 
 Trinamool Congress claimed a supporter,  , was injured in the attack and was battling for life at a Siliguri nursing home. Nawaz, Trinamool leaders said, was injured in a clash in Mirik’s Ward 7 area on Monday night. 
 
 State tourism minister Gautam Deb said, “The GJM allegations are false. There was no police firing and, instead, the forces exercised a lot of restraint in the face of provocation. The agitators attacked our supporter. He is on life support.”
 
 But what seems to be testing the Gorkhaland leadership’s nerves is the fact that the agitation has not led anywhere so far. Monday’s more-than-five-hour-long GMCC meeting in Kalimpong, besides deciding to take the agitation to Delhi to garner more eyeballs and prod the centre into taking some action, also decided to “take the statehood demand” to Bengal governor Keshari Nath Tripathi, Sikkim chief minister Pawan Chamling and Sikkim governor Sriniwas Patil.
 
 Gurung later urged all GMCC constituents to push the   and its Darjeeling MP and union minister, Surinder Singh Ahluwalia, into some sort of action. “Nothing else besides a separate state will be discussed with our alliance parties,” he added, demanding that the Gorkhaland issue be placed in Parliament this monsoon session itself. GJM has already air-dashed its general secretary, Roshan Giri, and four other senior leaders to Delhi.
 
 The GJM desperation for some action from Delhi instead is not without reason. Gurung's statement admitted, albeit in a roundabout way, that people had started feeling the pinch of the shutdown: “Despite the shortage of food, vegetables and essential commodities in Darjeeling, our people are willing to continue the bandh till the Gorkhaland demand is fulfilled.”
 
 
