The next time you walk around   in Bengaluru, don't fail to notice the many loosely hanging boards that inform you that the sprawling stadium cum sporting complex is home to the headquarters of as many as 49 state sports associations -  ,   (KSBBA) among them. One would be surprised by the number of sporting bodies - though some of them are not very active - that exist in Karnataka. An even closer look at the functioning of these associations brings yet another aspect into stark relief: most of these bodies are run by individuals who have been at the helm of affairs for years, if not decades.

 There are sweeping changes being effected by the   in New Delhi. It has asked national sports federations to fall in line with the  , which prescribes an upper age limit of 70 for principal office bearers (president, secretary and treasurer), besides enjoining on them that no individual should hold these key posts for more than two terms (8 years) at a stretch. The results of this churning process, which gathered momentum after the 2010 Commonwealth Games in New Delhi, is yet to filter down to the state sports bodies, which continue to remain fiefdoms of a few decorated officials.
 
 Not too far from the Kanteerava Stadium is another tank, one that was converted into a stadium to nurture footballers. The Football Stadium in Bengaluru is home to the Karnataka State Football Association (KSFA), which is headed by AR Khaleel, arguably one of the oldest serving sports administrators in the state. The 84-year-old has been the president of the KSFA for the past 27 years; getting elected unanimously every four years since 1989, when he first took charge.
 
  
  
 Khaleel, a former state player, hails from a reputed business family that sold Swiss watch brands such as Feverluba and Longines in Chikpete. He forayed into football administration, when he took over the reins of Jawahar Union FC. "Khaleel started his administrative career in the KSFA as early as 1953 as a member of the Bangalore District Football Association, and subsequently as treasurer of KSFA from 1961 to '81. He served as the vice-president from 1981 to 89," writes Abdul Rahman in his recent book "Football in Karnataka ­ A Historical Perspective". According to the author, Khaleel is the 15th president of the body; the first was Major F Ward. Some of the other KSFA presidents who served long tenures are Mir Iqbal Hussain (1965-76; '81-'88) and D Gunabhushanam (1950-51; 54-61).
 
 Matching Khaleel's longevity is Karnataka Swimming Association president Neelkant Rao Jagdale, who took charge of the federation in 1989. Only SM Sait, who was secretary of State Hockey Association for 32 years between 1948 and 1980, enjoyed a longer tenure in the state's sports bodies.
 
 
 
 
 If the KSFA, which failed to get the U-17 FIFA World Cup to the city despite its tall promises, has the dubious distinction of being run by one of the oldest administrators, the other bodies are not far behind, with many of them failing the test of the Sports Code on the age and tenure clauses.
 
 The Karnataka Olympic Association (KOA), the umbrella body for all Olympics sports in the state, is headed by Congress MLC K Govindraj, who is also the secretary of the KSBBA. His name can also be found on the list of office bearers in other sports bodies too, including the KSFA, of which he is one of the vice-presidents. Similarly, KOA secretary Anantharaju is also associated with the archery (secretary) and boxing (vice-president) associations.
 
 Govindraj, who is pushing 55, has been the president of KOA for the past 14 years. In May 2002, he defeated former sports minister Ajay Kumar Sarnaik 33-23 in a keenly contested election that was held at the State Youth Centre. The third candidate in the fray for the president's post in 2002 was K Nandakumar, who has held the post of the Karnataka Volleyball Association's secretary for nearly two decades. In April last year, he was elected to the office of the general secretary of one of the factions of India's volleyball federation.
 
 The scene is hardly any different in many of the other state sports bodies, including the Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA). The incumbent secretary of KSCA, Brijesh Patel, 64, had previously occupied the post for nearly 12 years at a stretch which goes against the age tenure clause included in the sports code, which is yet to be implemented in the state. On the other hand, K Krishnamurthy has been the secretary of Hockey Bengaluru, the erstwhile Karnataka State Hockey Association since 1996.
 
 
 
 
 Lamenting the sorry state of administration in many sports bodies, including those for tug-of-war and tennis ball cricket, a former officer in the department of youth services and sports said that those who were holding offices in violation of the clauses in sports code should vacate their posts. "These people have no business to stay in office. Democratic norms should be put in place so that fresh faces can occupy these posts. New individuals will come up with new ideas, which will benefit sports," he said.
 
 Court judgments point out that sports associations are public bodies, since they receive regular grants from the state government - barring the KOA - to the tune of nearly Rs 2 crore.
 
 "The system will change only when there is transparency, and the organizations function democratically. Sports associations should be process oriented, and not focus on individuals. The organizational set up, decision making process, et al should focus on the overall improvement of the institution. However, what has happened is that an individual has become larger than the organization.
 
