ROHTAK: Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Rohtak, had celebrated induction of the 2013 batch of post-graduate programme in management (PGPM) when it had got 73 girls against 79 boys, almost matching the 1:1 ratio — highest for institute. Shockingly, for the 2016-18 batch of the same programme,   got nine girl students against 145 boys, leaving the institute struggling for gender diversity.

 Sources in IIM Rohtak said last year’s Jat agitation for reservation coincided with their admission process and had left a huge impact on the decision of parents of the girl students.
 
 Several of the girls from different states, who were interested in joining IIM Rohtak due to its proximity to New Delhi, had backed out due to the volatile situation, sources added. 
 
 The admission process in IIMs starts in February. The Jat agitation was at its peak, which started from February 18, 2016, paralysing the state for 10 days leaving many dead. 
 
 An employee, who is associated with IIM Rohtak, told TOI that parents of the girls, who belonged to other states, were also concerned over the safety after violent scenes shown on electronic media.
 
 “Rohtak city also drew lots of media attention for negative reasons in the last couple of years like the infamous gang rape case of a Nepalese woman, honour killings cases and bizarre diktats of khaps clipping the freedom of women,” he said.
 
 Jagmati Sangwan, central executive committee member of   (AIDWA) who hails from Rohtak, said Haryana was still known as the land of unwanted daughters. “When you see the agrarian state in the national perspective, it is seen as economically forward but socially backward,” Sangwan said.
 
 She said the premier institute was at its evolving stage and reputation of Rohtak in suppressing women’s right play in the mind of girls’ parents. She said sustained efforts by the government can only transform the image in securing more females admissions in IIM Rohtak. 
 
 Experts, however, said boys always perform better than girls in the Common Admission Test (CAT) exam and eventually land up in the IIMs. In a way, it can be said that engineering background was being seen as the qualifying mark for cracking the prestigious CAT exam, they said.
 
 In 2016, CAT exam out of 20 candidates, who bagged 100 percentiles, all were boys. In 2015, out of 17 candidates who got 100 percentile, there was only one girl in the list. 
 
 An IIM Rohtak official said to balance the gender ratio, the institute, which is hosting the Common Admission Process (CAP) for new IIMs, has offered special weightage to girl and non-engineering background candidates.
 
 According to IIM Rohtak website, the institute has made an amendment in admission policy to ensure balance in gender diversity. It has increased grace score to girl candidates by 25% extra than 2016. Girl candidates would get 75 grace points in admission process than 50 grace points last year.
 
 On the reason, the official said that gender diversity readies students for corporate environment.
 
 “After the course, they have to work in the corporate world where men and women work together. Plus, girls presence in makes the environment better and brings egalitarian perspective in the class,” he said.
 
 Expressing concern, a member of admission committee at IIM Rohtak said the Jat bodies call for January 29 to hold protests in all districts was of Haryana was giving them sleepless nights as the admission process was set to begin in February for 2017-19 PGPM batch.
 
