CHENNAI: Supply of pulses and palmolein to fair price shops is not expected to resume until end of March as the state government has yet to purchase these commodities, according to   officials. 

 The government is in a crisis. In the last two months, it has not been able to provide ration card holders urad dal, tur dal and palmolein it supplies under the Special   (SPDS). Residents across the state have complained that the supply, erratic since December 2016, altogether stopped in January.
 
 There also seems to be little clarity with regard to extending the SPDS, kept afloat as a temporary scheme and requiring annual renewal for the state to purchase pulses and oil for disbursal. The scheme ended on December 31, 2016 and was not renewed further.
 
 Civil supplies department officials remained non-committal when asked about the status of the project. K Gopal, managing director, told this correspondent he "would get back" on a set of queries TOI posed but did not. 
 
 "We have received the GO (about SPDS extension) today. We had also called for tenders for purchase of these commodities earlier and we will be opening them on March 10 (pulses) and March 13 (oil). After that, it will be another four or five days before we receive the stocks. Supply to fair price shops will begin by end of March," said  , general manager (business).
 
 However, the   has not listed a tender as claimed by the official. In fact, the last tenders called with respect to these commodities, according to the TN Tenders website, was for the purchase of 16,000 tonnes of tur dal, 7,000 tonnes of urad dal and 30 days worth stock of palmolein, which were called in November and December 2016 respectively.
 
 DMK working president M K Stalin and   founder S Ramadoss had criticised the government for failing to ensure uninterrupted supply of pulses and oil. Ramadoss, in a statement on February 26, alleged that there was lack of clarity on the extension of SPDS scheme. Stalin conducted a spot visit of fair price shops in his Kolathur constitutency on Sunday and released a statement saying residents had not been receiving pulses and oil.
 
 Last week, civil supplies minister R Kamaraj said the PDS had ensured uninterrupted supply of rice, wheat and sugar to 1.96 crore card holders but did not offer comment on the pulses and oil situation.
 
 
