As homage to Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary,   asks staff of govt and grant-in aid schools to  
Khadi seems to have taken the fancy of the government. After Prime Minister   was accused of replacing Mahatma Gandhi spinning a charkha with his own photo on   Udyog's latest calendar and diary, now comes a “humble request“ by the state education minister asking over 3.12 lakh teachers and non-teaching staff of government and grantin aid schools to wear khadi once a week.
 
 Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama had held an informal meeting with the heads of associations of primary teachers, secondary teachers, higher secondary teachers, principals and non-teaching staff earlier this month. At the meeting, Chudasama had suggested that teachers wear khadi once a week, to which the heads of the associations nodded in agreement. Bolstered by the response, the minister went ahead and made a formal announcement on Sunday.
 
 Chudasama said, “To pay homage to Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary on January 30, I have ma de this announcement. Wearing khadi is voluntary for teachers but the teachers have to purchase it on their own, the government won't bear the expenses.“
 
 Over 3.12 lakh teachers and nonteaching staff have the option of wearing khadi once a week. There are around 2 lakh teachers in primary schools, 60,000 in secondary schools, 32,000 in higher secondary schools and 20,000 non-teaching staff across the state. The announcement made by the state education minister is applicable to government and grant-in aid schools.
 
 Pankaj Patel, president of   said, “Presidents of all associations had given their consent to the idea of teachers wearing khadi once a week. However, it is voluntary and no action will be taken against the teachers who do not wear khadi.“
 
 Digvijaysinh Jadeja, president of Gujarat Primary Teachers Association said, “The minister has taken this decision to promote khadi and also promote Gandhiji's thoughts in schools. After official announcement, we will now inform teachers under my association and hope to completely implement it within a month.“
 
 
