MEERUT: It was some five years ago that  , then in his mid-30s, decided to learn shooting. After he saw district authorities at the Palheda shooting range in Meerut, he suddenly wanted to learn the sport.

 His first coach, Mohd Sualeyheen Sheikh, one of the country’s most renowned shooters and coaches, took him on readily, but recalled that he found the son of a retired Army colonel suspicious, and had to let him go.
  
  “Just like any other student I take in, I interviewed him thoroughly and found him very enthusiastic. But it was only after taking him on board that I realized there was somehting suspicious. He had started learning shooting with a Remington-make or a Winchester-make semi-automatic weapon, which has been banned by the Indian government for years now,” Sheikh, father of 10-time national shooting champion Saniya, told TOI on Monday.
  
  “I had pointed out to him that the gun was banned, but it was a matter of pride for him to have it. Some six to eight months later, I refused to coach him further, when I realized that instead of learning the sport, he was more interested in making contacts,” Sheikh said. A semi-automatic weapon has a higher rate of shooting and can fire two shots in just one second, the coach explained. 
 
 “Most of the weapons that have been seized from his house are heavy calibre rifles, from which bullets, when fired, can reach as far as 1-1.5 km. These weapons are dangerous and a threat to national security,” Sheikh added.
  
  Local shooters, on condition of anonymity, said that Bishnoi was not very secretive about the weapons he owned and even showed them to his guests. “Since he never made any efforts to hide them, all of us thought he had authentic documents and permits for them,” a shooter said. Locally known as ‘Pasha’ among family and friends, Bishnoi even practiced at the shooting range in Kailash Prakash Stadium in Meerut a few times.
  
  “Bishnoi had come to the stadium quite a few times to practice before the National Shooting Championship Competition that took place recently in Gurgaon. He had approached me to learn shooting when he was in his mid-thirties, but I refused, because I only train children who are at least 12 years old. Later, I got to know that he used to offer lakhs of rupees to people to let him try shooting with their weapons. I found him suspicious and kept my distance. He had brought his younger daughter – nearly eight years old – and asked me to train her, to which I had agreed. But she hardly came twice and then stopped,” said Ved Pal Singh, shooting range in-charge,   (MDRA).
  
  Shooters said the case has brought bad name for the sport and the players. “Bishnoi should be investigated and banned for life by National Rifle Association of India. He has disgraced the whole fraternity. A renowned shooter can keep at the most 10 rifles. There are nine shooters in my family and even then we don’t have 44 firearms at home. I am just stunned at the haul from his house,” said Sheikh.
