Coimbatore:  , the mobile payment and commerce platform, will expand the range of offerings under its recently launched ‘Digital Gold’ product by allowing   transfers,   (systematic investment plan) in   purchases and redemption of gold in standard 22-carat coins soon, senior officials said.

 The company, which currently has a user base of about 220 million and is backed by Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, has sold about 40 kgs of gold by signing up around 1 lakh users since launching the product on April 27 in association with gold refiner MMTC-PAMP India. ‘Digital Gold’ allows users to buy, store and sell pure gold instantly for as low as Re 1. Users can buy gold both in rupee and gram denominations. “We want to make it more convenient for the consumer. SIPs and online transfers (under digital gold) are also in the pipeline,” said Krishna Hegde, senior vice president, Paytm. “We will soon introduce an option to get redemptions in the form of 22-carat gold coins,” said Harshit Pande, head, business development and strategy, MMTC-PAMP India.
 
 Paytm, which is targeting 100 million users for the product, currently provides redemption only in the form of 24-carat gold coins. “We have sold gold that covers nearly 4000 pin-codes in the country in the last two weeks,” Hegde said. “We have seen a lot of traction as there is convenience and transparency. A lot of jewelers from small towns are also buying gold on our platform,” he stated.
 
 Users can get a maximum of 20 grams of gold delivered at their doorstep with the yellow metal available in the form of 1-gram, 2-gram, 5-gram and 10-gram coins. The digital wallet company has fixed 1 gram as the minimum quantum for home delivery, which can be availed only by showing the OTP (one-time password) sent to the registered mobile number. While average ticket size is hovering around Rs 500 now, Paytm has fixed a ceiling of Rs 1.5 lakh per transaction.
 
 Indians are estimated to hold more than 24,000 tonnes of gold valued at about $900 billion. “Indian households bought more gold in 2016 than any other financial asset despite the challenges ,” Paytm said.
 
 
