NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   sharpened the raging debate over triple talaq on Saturday exhorting “enlightened” members of the Muslim community to take the lead for abolition of the controversial practice and help women who have been at its receiving end. 

 “They should live up to the great tradition of the country where the initiative for eradication of outdated practices as well as for evolution of modern ones has come from enlightened members of different communities. I will urge you not to let this become an issue of partisan politics,” he said. 
 
 Modi’s remarks, at a function in New Delhi to mark Basava Jayanti celebrations in honour of Kannada philosopher Basaveswara where he lauded the 12th century reformer for his campaign against regressive practices, touched off a political slugfest. Political opponents attacked the PM saying that it is him and BJP that are seeking to politicise the issue. BJP, however, defended the PM saying he was motivated by the consideration of providing justice to Muslim women who have been victims of triple talaq.
 
 
  
  
 
 This was the second time in a fortnight that Modi had referred to the triple talaq issue, the last occasion being 
  in Bhubaneswar. Referring to the practice, Modi said, “I am sure enlightened people will also emerge from among Muslims and come forward to end this practice, liberating our Muslim daughters and mothers from the scourge. I am sure enlightened Muslims will take this responsibility upon themselves. “I appeal to you not to view the triple talaq issue from a political perspective. Come out and find a solution. That solution will have its own majesty and generations will remember you... That is the kind of power and energy this land gives to all of us.” 
 
 According to a news agency report, Modi walked up to the audience to meet the family of Kannada scholar and rationalist M M Kalburgi, who was killed in Dharwad (Karnataka) in 2015. During his speech, the PM also expressed confidence that Indian Muslims will not only lead their community members within the country, but also show the “path of modernity” to Muslims worldwide. 
 
 He released a digital volume of Basaveswara's works —Vachanas of Basavanna — in 23 languages. The works comprise 2,500 sermons delivered by the philosopher. The event assumes significance in view of the 2018 assembly elections in Karnataka, where ‘Lingayats’ are a formidable community for whom Basaveswara, also known as Basavanna, has been a powerful icon. 
 
 Describing Lord Basaveshwara’s Vachanas as a basis for good governance, Modi said the fruits of development such as housing, electricity and roads should reach one and all, without distinction. He said this is the true essence of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas”. 
 
 “Call it loopholes in our education system or our propensity to ignore our own heritage, the youth today would know nothing of how eminent and evolved Indians like Basavanna spoke against evil social practices and in favour of women's empowerment as long back as 700 years,” Modi said.
 
