GAYA: Taking serious note of the   of his orders, Magadh division commissioner Jitendra Srivastava has initiated action against the electrical executive engineer of Jehanabad and the district education officer (DEO) of Aurangabad. 

 While hearing public grievances earlier, the commissioner had directed Jehanabad electricity officials to respond to the charge of a power consumer that his connection was disconnected without any prior notice and a false FIR regarding power theft was registered against him.
 
 Finding the consumer’s complaint prima facie true, the commissioner sought to know as to why power was disconnected without proper notice. On Saturday, during the review of the complaint, Srivastava asked the electricity officials to furnish a copy of the notice claimed by them to have been served to the consumer.
 
 Sources said the electricity official produced a piece of paper, which appeared to be “concocted” as it did not carry either any memo number or the signature of the official authorised to issue disconnection notices.
 
 Moreover, the power officials could not produce proof of the notice having been served to the power consumer.
 
 When the divisional commissioner pointed out the anomalies, the assistant engineer representing the power distribution company said such discrepancies used to occur on account of paucity of staff. An infuriated commissioner directed the Jehanabad executive engineer of the South Bihar Power Distribution Company to personally explain why action should not be taken against the officials concerned for wrongful power disconnection and harassment of the power consumer.
 
 Another official against whom the divisional commissioner initiated action on Friday was the DEO of Aurangabad. Earlier, the commissioner had directed the DEO to inquire into the allegations of corruption against a school principal who allegedly took Rs 250 each from government school students for granting permission to appear at the exam and take appropriate action against the principal.
 
 However, neither any inquiry was done nor any action taken against the principal. The divisional commissioner ordered the regional deputy director to frame charges against the DEO.
 
 Complaints of blatant violation of ban on pressure horns in the Belaganj police station area of Gaya district and harassment of scholarship seekers in Nawada district have also been received by the divisional commissioner. Srivastava issued directives to the Gaya district transport officer and Belaganj SHO and directed them to ensure the implementation of the ban.
 
 A scholarship applicant of Nawada district submitted details of the calls made by welfare department officials seeking bribe to release scholarship and also produced a CD of the purported talk between the student and the bribe seeking officials. The commissioner directed the Nawada DM to get a police inquiry done in the matter.
 
 
