KOCHI: As many as 80 families in   stay in houses  , a proper road or   because the buildings fall in the safety zone of Naval Armament Depot (NAD), Aluva. Around 30 families, who live in the 500m radius of the southern side of the NAD, have abandoned their houses as they could not sell it. Besides difficulty in selling land and houses, residents cannot   on roads, pledge land documents in banks, or ask for repair of roads which are in a bad condition. 

 While the residents in southern side languish without facilities, people living on the northern and western sides of the depot do not face such problems. Private parties have even constructed multi-storied buildings close to the compound wall of the NAD on the other side of the village. “The Edathala panchayat allotted Rs 4.5 lakh to lay asphalt on 500m of ThevakkalKunchattukara Periyar valley canal road, which falls in the safety zone of the NAD.
 
  When the workers brought raw material, defence officials reached the spot and blocked the work in 2015. We do not know how a road can pose threat to the security of the depot? We were not even allowed to take  ,” said Ratheesh N A, a resident in the area. Santhosh K D, a resident of Edathala panchayat, was forced to take loan from a cooperative society at an exorbitant interest rate as he could not pledge documents of his five cents in a bank, for the treatment of his mother, a cancer patient, and his bed-ridden father. “We came here 36 years ago and got trapped. We don’t have the NOC to repair this house,” said Sarada V K, mother of Santhosh, pointing to the leaking concrete roof of the house. 
 
 When the depot was set up in 1958, severe restrictions on the general use of land within a distance of 2,000 yards from the outer periphery of the compound walls were imposed. “The safety zone circle differs depending upon where the ammunitions are kept. The safety zone falls within the compound wall in northern and western sides of the NAD. While it is not like that in southern side as the safety zone line is asymmetrical,” a Navy spokesperson said.
 
