Panaji: Acknowledging that the number of beggars in the towns of Goa is increasing every day, chief minister   proposed to make the state beggar-free by establishing a full-fledged rehabilitation centre, as he presented the state budget on Friday. 

 “Although the Goa, Daman and Diu Prevention of Begging Act 1972 is in force, we see the number of beggars increasing day by day. It will be an endeavour of my government to make Goa the first beggar-free state of the country,” Parrikar said, adding that the government will establish a similar rehabilitation centre for the destitute. Parrikar allocated Rs 978.84cr to the social welfare, women and child development, and the tribal welfare schemes. Out of the total amount, Rs 312.27 crore have been allocated under social welfare, Rs 475.59 crore under women and child development and Rs 190.98 crore under tribal welfare. 
 
 The government also laid its emphasis on creating special homes, established through institute of public assistance (provedoria), for senior citizens suffering from diseases such as Alzheimer, Parkinsons and dementia. These special homes will be established at existing government premises in Mapusa and  .
 
 “Provedoria runs 10 homes and two centres with an in-house capacity of around 495 inmates. In this financial year, I propose to undertake a total renovation of these homes,” the chief minister said. 
 
 Highlighting that there are over 5,800 children in the state who are suffering from autism, the chief minister proposed to set up multiple complexes which will run with the help of NGOs, who are already working in the field, and also the  .
 
 The government has promised to undertake a comprehensive study to understand the socio-economic conditions, educational and employment status of the scheduled caste, scheduled tribe,   and persons with disabilities. 
 
 “Based on this exhaustive research, the government will implement future schemes and projects for the overall development,” Parrikar said, adding that the retirement benefit scheme for anganwadi teachers and helpers will be further strengthened.
 
