AHMEDABAD: The   busted a   in Ambawadi last week but that has not put the fear of the law in those running the illegal but highly lucrative business. A joint team of   (PCB) and city crime branch raided two call centres in Sarkhej early on Tuesday and rounded up 13 people, including a girl from Manipur.

 The raid comes soon after the Thane police’s recent visit to the city as part of the ongoing investigation in the widespread network of con call centres run by Sagar Thakar and others. 
 
 The joint team visited Signature-II near   in Sarkhej after a tip-off, and checked an office on the fifth floor where they found a functioning call centre. Police nabbed six, including a girl, and seized a laptop, eight computers, switchboard and router, all worth Rs 1.35 lakh. 
 
 “We got to know that an adjoining office was also running a similar call centre,” a cyber cell official said. “The raid led to the arrest of five more youths who were involved in making fraudulent calls to the US through VoIP and offered loans at lucrative rates. Both the call centres were involved in providing loans and charging verfication fee, loan agreement fee and other charges.” 
 
 Police said the call centres were functioning for the past four months and each was suspected to be making Rs 3 lakh a month. The first call centre was run by  , 29, a resident of Dariapur while the second was run by Tariq Hashmi, 29, a resident of Sarkhej.
 
 J S Gedam, inspector of cyber cell, said that the call centres were running Pay-Day scam in which US citizens were offered loans at lucrative rates. 
 
 “The call centres used to make calls on the basis of a database and offer loans saying they were a US-based finance company. They would charge processing fees and get money through iTunes and other prepaid cash cards and later launder the money,” Gedam said.
 
 The call centre had asked the building watchman to raise an alarm if he saw anything suspicious. Nobody was allowed into the centre without a direct phone from Shaikh. Hence, the raiding police team had to sneak into the building evading the watchman and nab the group red-handed. 
 
 
