JAIPUR: The   (public assembly) held near Karauli on Saturday ended without any decision as community leader Kirori Singh Bainsla’s health deteriorated onstage and he had to be rushed to a nearby hospital. Bainsla (80), who is said to have age related ailments, was brought to Jaipur late night for further treatment.

 The Mahapanchayat was organised at village   near Karauli by the Bainsla-led Rajasthan Gujjar Aarakshan   to finalise the community’s course of action following the high court judgment that struck down 5% quota for Special Backward Classes (SBC.) The community blamed the Centre and the state governments for losing its quota since the demand for placing it under Constitution’s Schedule IX, which could have granted the quota law immunity against court scrutiny, remained unmet. The Sangharsh Samiti had boycotted the state’s cabinet sub-committee meeting to resolve the matter amicably early this month.
 
 “Bainsla ji fell ill while the Mahapanchayat was on, so we could not take any decision on the quota issue today, though, thousands from the SBC community (including Gujjars) turned up for the meeting,” said Himmat Singh, the Samiti’s spokesperson. Bainsla was initially treated at a hospital at Karauli and later referred to Jaipur for further treatment.
 
 “Once our leader recovers, we will organise another Mahapanchayat at Dausa or some other place. The date will also be decided later,” Singh said.
 
 Before Bainsla fell sick, several leaders from the SBC community had addressed the Mahapanchayat and placed their suggestions. The suggestion to demand 5% SBC within the 50% cap was prominently made. Another suggestion was to ask legislators from SBC dominated constituencies to raise the issue in the state assembly during the ongoing budget session. “Some leaders suggested that the government should act on our demand within the budget session or face agitation,” said  , an advocate from the community who defended the SBC quota before the high court.
 
 Other suggestions related to asking government to grant appointment letters to SBC candidates who had been selected against the quota vacancies before December 9, 2016 when the court pronounced its judgment. Granting scholarships and other benefits under Dev Narayan Yojana was also suggested.
 
 The community members’ hunger strike at Sikandra near Dausa and protests at other places in the state were continuing. Four persons were on indefinite hunger strike at Sikandra since February 16, while 11 persons joined them on relay hunger strike every day.
 
 
