NAGPUR: When most of the   see an escalation of cost, Mahametro (earlier  ) has done a wonderful job by actually reducing the project cost from that envisaged in   (DPR). Preliminary estimates   will be built for almost Rs 400 crore less than estimates due to various measures taken by the company.

 The actual reduction may be somewhat less because a slight delay in completion of the project. While the saving is in the range of 5%, the escalation due to delay is not expected to be more than 2%. This still leads to a saving of 3%.
 
 A Mahametro official said reduction had not been achieved at the cost of efficiency or safety. “We have done away with only unnecessary things or have used more efficient methods of doing things than that envisaged in the DPR,” he added. According to the official, cost reduction measures could be classified in eight categories: viaduct, right of way, stations, depots, signalling and telecom, electrical, traction and rolling stock.
 
 The official said, “A major reduction was achieved by lessening the viaduct segment width from the conventional 10.3 metres to 8.5 metres. Due to this the weight reduced by 60 tonnes per span.”
 
 The length of station platforms has been reduced from 140 metres to 75 metres as Mahametro trains will only have three coaches. The size of the two maintenance depots has been reduced to half compared to that envisaged in the DPR. “Trains are to be maintained in depots only once in three days. Only trains (a third of the total) requiring maintenance will be kept here. Remaining trains will be parked at terminating station during night. The overall track length of depots has been reduced to 8 kms from 10 kms,” the official said.
 
 There are many other measures to cut cost. Signalling rooms from stations not having interlocking have been eliminated. Only LED lighting will be used in entire Metro system. The number of traction receiving sub-stations has been reduced from four to two. Transformer ratings have been reduced and cable sizes have been optimized.
 
 Shirish Chakradeo, former president of   (VIDC) Contractors’ Association, praised the Mahametro officials for achieving cost reduction. “Any saving of public money is extremely welcome. Agencies doing similar work should take a leaf out of Mahametro’s book. VIDC is also reducing cost of projects by using pipes instead of canals,” he said.
 
