Panaji: Due to the lack of access to sanitation facilities, more than 20% of girls in the country drop out of school once they hit puberty. Now, sanitary napkin vending machines and incinerators are not only ensuring that girls stay in school but also providing some relief to the government by preventing the sanitary napkins from ending up in landfills where they are eventually manually segregated.  Two separate units have recently been installed at Shri Shantadurga Higher Secondary School, Bicholim by the Rotary Club of Bicholim. Units have also been fitted at the Panaji police station, Narayan Zantye College of Commerce, MES College and the Goa College of Home Science among other higher secondary schools and colleges, by the Rotary Club of Panaji Riviera. At the Goa College of Home Science, Panaji, students who travel from as far as Bicholim and Sanquelim no longer have to panic in the case of an emergency. They just have to slip a Rs 5 coin into the vending machine that has been fitted outside the ladies bathroom, to receive a sanitary napkin. The incinerator has been installed inside the bathroom and the college has made it compulsory for students to dispose off their pads there.  Assistant professor of food, nutrition and dietetics, Gauravi Shirodkar, who is also in charge of the health watch club of the college, says a demonstration is held for the students no sooner they join the course. “They are also encouraged to dispose off pads in the incinerator by themselves, instead of leaving it for the cleaners,” she says. Once incinerated, the ashes collected in the machine are disposed off.  The machines have been sponsored for girl students’ convenience and to ensure proper disposal of sanitary napkins after use, immediate past president of Rotary Club of Panaji Riviera, Raja Melvani said.  The club invests in the machine and it is up to each institution to replenish the pads.  A large quantity of sanitary napkins and pampers are disposed off every month, proving to be a major challenge in garbage disposal for civic authorities. 