Amritsar: Nine persons sustained injuries in four different incidents of violence in Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts on the polling day. Barring some minor incidents, voting for the 2017 assembly elections remained peaceful in Majha region on Saturday. Four persons sustained injuries at Padda village under Dera Baba Nanak assembly constituency in Batala police district during a scuffle between two rival political groups.

 Congress candidate from Dera Baba Nanak Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said that an elderly party worker, Kulwant Singh, suffered head injuries during a scuffle, which broke out after he objected to alleged casting of fake votes. He said that Shamsher Singh and two more persons were also injured. Kulwant was referred to a hospital in Amritsar, where his condition was said to be critical. 
 
 Batala SSP Deepak Hilori, however, said the police had information of only two injured persons. He said they were waiting for them to get stable to take their statements, following which they would register an FIR.
 
 At Kalanaur village in Gurdaspur district, gunman of AAP candidate Gurpartap Singh Khushalpur alleged that he sustained injuries. However, the police deny the claim and have instead recommended his suspension for misbehaving with a police officer and obstructing some cops from performing their duties. Khushalpur on the other hand told TOI that he had objected to casting of fake votes, following which Congress workers allegedly thrashed his gunman Kamaljit Singh. 
 
 Meanwhile, Gurdaspur SSP Jasdeep Singh denied reports of any injury to Kamaljit. He said that the latter had entered the polling booth with Khushalpur and misbehaved with the presiding officer as well as with senior police officers. He further said that the police had recommended his suspension and registered a case under Sections 153 and 180 of the IPC against Khushalpur and others.
 
 Meanwhile, the AAP candidate, along with his supporters, sat on a dharna in front of the police station, which was continuing till the time of filing of this report.
 
 In Taran Taran district, four AAP workers, including a woman, were injured at Manochal village after a few Akali workers allegedly tried to cast fake votes. The injured have been identified as Gurwinder Singh , Malkiat Singh, Dalbir Kaur and Charan Singh. They have been admitted at Civil Hospital, Tarn Taran. In yet another incident, an Akali sarpanch, Desa Singh, allegedly opened fire over poll rivalry, in which a Congress worker Jagjit Singh received injuries on leg.
 
 Meanwhile, despite inclement weather, there was enthusiasm among voters as they started queuing at the polling booths from 7.30 am. At Majitha, polling was delayed by over an hour due to faulty EVMs. Voters waited to get these repaired but later a few started returning to their homes. They were seen being persuaded by workers of different political parties. 
 
 Not only voters, but even SAD candidate Bikram Singh Majithia had to return due to faulty EVM. When he went again to cast his vote, he came face to face with his opponent Congress’ Sukhjinder Raj Singh Lalli Majithia. He objected to Lalli’s action of bringing his vehicles inside the polling station, which led to a verbal duel between the two.
 
 
