MUMBAI: A 14-year-old student, who had complained of bullying at school in Nalasopara, attempted to hang himself at home on Monday evening. He is in a serious condition.

 He had joined the school in July after his family shifted from Malad.
 
 On Monday, when he returned from school, his father, an autorickshaw driver, was at work and his mother had gone to the market. Finding himself alone, he changed his school clothes, climbed a chair, tied two dumbbells, each weighing 15 pounds, to his feet, and hung himself from an iron rod on the ceiling using a nylon rope.
 
 His elder brother Vivek, a first-year degree student, came home at this moment and rescued him. The doctor treating him in hospital said the next 48 hours is crucial.
 
 His family said soon after the teenager enrolled in the  , his torment began. Five to six boys began by elbowing him, hitting him on his head. It progressed to hiding his tiffin box and spilling water from his bottle. They would even throw away his school bag and books.
 
 A month ago, the boy, described as shy and non-assertive by his family, confided in his parents about the bullying. They met the school authorities, who reprimanded the boys, said school secretary SP Singh.
 
 The parents claim the bullying continued and the school did not take their verbal complaints seriously. “We told the school frequently about the bullying, but no action was taken," said the boy's father. The teen's brother said he would not want to go to school on most days. Singh said he meets pa rents between 10am to 2pm every day and the victim's parents had not visited him after the first reprimand. “As there was no complaint from the boy, we assumed everything was fine," said Singh.
 
 On Friday, the boy returned home with unexplained bruises on his neck. He told his parents that the boys had scratched him. The next day, after the parents visited the school with their complaint, the teacher made the boy sit on the front bench. The alleged bullies were seated at the back and were reprimanded again, said Singh.
 
 He said the boy was seated on the front bench even on Monday and did not have any complaints. Singh said he saw him leaving the school at 5.30pm. “By 7.30pm, we got news that he had attempted suicide," said Singh. He said he questioned the alleged bullies when they came to school on Tuesday. They denied having made fun of the victim.
 
 The Tuling police have registered an accident case and said the school authorities have been called for their statement. Action will be taken after the boy identifies the students who bullied him.
 
