AURANGABAD: Almost a week after   unearthed in its jurisdiction,   (Bamu) has slapped a notice on  , marking the beginning of its  , on Tuesday. 

 The Sai  , which is at the centre of the entire controversy, has been given 30-days time to reply as to why its affiliation must not be cancelled.
 
 Stating that the stern action would be invoked against the institute, Bamu vice-chancellor B A Chopade, said, "We have served official notice despite its obvious involvement established by the police to ensure the procedure of natural justice."
 
 "We have to follow laid down procedure for disaffiliation process and cannot merely go by what police have established so far. By issuing official notice to college in question, we are fool-proofing our side in future battle," he said.
 
 Established in 2011, Sai Institute of Engineering and Technology is located at Bilda in Phulambri taluka of Aurangabad district. As per the Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) records, it has an intake capacity of 300 students for five different streams besides additional intake of 120 for direct second-year admissions.
 
 P P Kalwant, deputy registrar attached with academic section of Bamu, said, "Disaffiliation notice of Sai Institute has been initiated as per newly introduced legislation for public universities." 
 
 "As per the new Act, a time of 30 days is to be given to the institution to reply in case of proposed disaffiliation. The official reply submitted by the college would be submitted to VC and other authorities for necessary action," he said.
 
 As per Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, in the event of disqualification or de-recognition or closure of the college, the college shall continue to function and discharge its duties till the last batch of students registered for various programmes are trained, assessed or evaluated, their results are declared by the university and they are given appropriate certificate of completion of the programme.
 
  Also, in such cases, the management shall abide by and execute the decision of Academic Council regarding the damages or compensation to be recovered from management.
 
 Meanwhile, a three-member inquiry panel formed by Bamu to probe the incident of answer-sheet rewriting was also served with official letter for initiating the inquiry. The fact-finding panel, led by former registrar and senior faculty M D Shirsath, is given 15-days to submit its report. 
 
 In a major crackdown, Aurangabad police on May 17 had raided a local Shiv Sena corporator's residence where the blank answer sheets of a civil engineering exam paper, held a day earlier, were being written. 
 
 
