PANAJI: With the election code of conduct in force, Goa coastal zone management authority (GCZMA) is unlikely to issue no objection certificates (NOC) to private shacks for yet another month despite having begun to receive applications.   had been unable to issue NOCs ahead of the beginning of the tourist season in November 2016 as the beach carrying capacity study was not ready. Although the study has since been completed and a report regarding the same submitted to the government, the code of conduct remains a hurdle.

 GCZMA’s newly appointed member secretary   said he was not in a position to comment on the matter as he had assumed charge only on Tuesday. But, a source confirmed that GCZMA has started accepting applications from private shack operators but, there was no clarity as to when they will be processed.
 
 Savio Messias, president of travel and tourism association of Goa (TTAG), said they had consulted advocate general Saresh Lotlikar who has informed that GCZMA is not in a position to issue permissions with the election code of conduct in force. 
 
 While GCZMA is the main authority to issue NOCs to private beach shacks, applicants also have to obtain the local civic body’s permission besides registering the outlet with the tourism department.
 
 While many private operators have started operations for the season, albeit illegally, the fate of the majority hangs in balance with continued delay on GCZMA’s part.
 
 Over 500 private shacks -- temporary structures which include huts, cafes, eateries -- are set up on private properties along the periphery of beaches every tourist season. The seasonal structures have to be demolished by May 31 which marks the end of the tourist season.
 
 Commenting on the sorry state of affairs, Dharmesh  , president, private shack owners association, said, “The government has fixed a date (May 31) for removing all shacks, but there is no particular deadline for issuing permissions at the beginning of the tourist season.”
 
 “Every year we are made to wait. Every year, we get our permits only after the tourist season starts, but this year they have crossed all limits,” he said.
 
 “Tourism is the one industrysustaining the state’s economy, but the government does not appear to be not interested in protecting it,” Saglani also said.
 
 A government official said it is only after a   (NGT) order two years ago that GCZMA has swung into action to crack down on private shacks operating without NOCs. NGT had also ordered not to issue any permits until a beach carrying capacity study and sand dunes mapping was done. The study done by a Chennai-based agency was submitted to the government last week.
 
 
