TRICHY: Work on the   Sludge Treatment Plant (FSTP) which would manage sludge from over 10,000 households in the areas not covered by the underground sewage system (UGSS), has begun. The plant, to be raised at a cost of Rs2crore, is being funded by   and is expected to be completed in 6 months. 

 Faecal sludge management refers to the removal, treatment, and disposal of faecal sludge from holding tanks (septic or networked through sewerage pipes). While only 34 percent of the city is connected to the UGSS, households in other parts of the city release their sewage into nearby water bodies, resulting in pollution. The Uyyakondan river flowing in the middle of the city is worst affected by discharge of faecal matter which has been causing health hazards.
 
 A site in Kasi Vilangi has been identified for the project. Taking cue from Devanahalli in Karnataka, Trichy Corporation was keen to construct a FSTP to treat the faecal sludge, so that water could be reused for irrigation and the sludge for fertilizer. The treatment plant would also prevent unauthorized dumping of faecal waste.
 
 Tamil Nadu Urban Sanitation Support Program (TNUSSP) has selected Trichy Corporation to demonstrate the functioning of the treatment plant to maintain a safe and hygienic environment. The pilot project is going to be implemented by   (IIHS), Gramalaya, the Government of Tamil Nadu and Bill &   Foundation. 
 
 City corporation commissioner N Ravichandran said that the remaining core area of the city will be covered by UGSS under phase II which is expected to be implemented in 2017-18. Funds have been sanctioned for the project under AMRUT scheme. Uncovered areas in the east and west side will be covered under phase III which may take 8 to 10 years. Sludge from areas to be covered under UGSS in phase III are currently managed by de-sludge trucks and are disposed at a decanting facility. 
 
 As a complementary solution for Phase III areas, TNUSSP has proposed FSTP –Fecal Sludge Treatment Project in Kasi Vilangi. The areas in wards 40, 45, 53, 57, and 60 will be fully or partially covered under this project and disposal will take place at the FSTP. An estimated 10721 households with a population of 53,606 will benefit from this facility. Estimated to be constructed at a cost of Rs3.27crore, the treated water could be used for gardening purposes. Bio-gas generated from the digester can be used for cooking. 
 
 
