NEW DELHI: A woman, arrested for allegedly attacking two Armymen near Rajokri flyover on Monday in an apparent case of road rage, was granted bail on Friday. A video showing the   thrashing one of the men had gone viral on social media. After a junior commissioned officer filed an FIR, police had taken in 44-year-old Smriti Kalra from her home in Gurgaon.

 The incident took place around 1.30pm on September 11 when an Army group was on its way from the National Security Guards base at Manesar to Nizamuddin railway station. The subedar leading the party told police that the woman overtook them near Rajokri flyover and started driving in a zigzag fashion in front of the Army truck.
 
 When the Army driver honked a few times, the FIR claimed, Kalra slowed down and refused to allow the truck to pass. “She kept blocking the way as we tried to overtake her car,’ alleged one of the men in the FIR. “She then slammed the brakes and forced us to stop.”
 
 When the truck driver walked up to the car and tried to reason with Kalra, she apparently held him by the collar and slapped him. “She hurled abuses at the Army,” the FIR said. The soldier walked back to the truck and sat in the driver’s seat only to find the incensed woman slamming her fists on the truck door, all the while shouting abuses at the soldiers.
 
 One of the JCOs got off the vehicle and talked with Kalra. The Army group claimed that she similarly held him by his collar and slapped him too. A passer-by clicked a video of the incident in which she is seen acting in an angry manner even as the Armymen remain cool and cordial. She is seen walking back to her car glaring at the person who shot the video.
 
 Chinmoy Biswal, additional DCP (South), said, “We arrested her from her house in Gurgaon and registered a case against her for assault and preventing public servants from conducting their duty.”
 
 After her arrest, the woman told the cops that she was a graduate in home science and was married to an Army officer’s son, from whom she got divorced in 2008. She currently lives with her parents in Gurgaon. Police officers said that Kalra was stuck in a traffic snarl just before the incident and had tried to reverse her vehicle and overtake another car, but was stalled by the Army truck stopping behind her. This made her lose her temper, the cops explained. Kalra’s Tata Indica car has been seized.
 
 
