Are you one of those who curse Sunday evenings because Monday morning is too close for comfort? Or drag yourself to office every day just for the sake of the “salary credited to account” at the end of every month? Or let’s get this straight, you have lost your focus and don’t feel like working in office anymore? Well, if you are silently nodding to any of these questions and brooding what are you doing with your life—fret not, we feel you!

 That’s the thing about being a corporate slave. Most of us start as an over-enthusiastic bloke and as the years slip by, we lose the zeal and start finding everything monotonous. Here are some simple yet pragmatic ways to get you out of this rut…
 
 
 
 Apart from keeping you fit as a fiddle, starting your day with any physical activity- whether it is meditation, jogging or yoga- gives you the feeling of accomplishing a task even before entering the office. It also releases dopamine, a neurotransmitter that helps you feel happy, optimistic and energised. Ergo, you start your day on the right note.
 
 
 There is a difference in merely doing your work and doing it with utmost dedication. Try to make a commitment to yourself to give your best shot in whatever you are doing and you will start noticing the difference in your motivation level. Zankhana Joshi, a counselling psychologist and dance therapist explains, “There is nothing more terrible than thinking “What did I even do today?” at the end of the day. Even if the colleagues around you are mediocre and not interested in doing their job; make a commitment to yourself and try to take ownership of what you are doing. It not just keeps you driven, it helps you to focus on what you are doing and makes you feel satisfied with your  . It all boils down to the thought that you did something constructive in the day that you can take pride of.”
 
 Alka Jain*, a government employee shares, “I go to an office where people take their job for granted and work as per their convenience. This used to irk me to the core initially. I could have been a part of this group and lead a relaxed life. But I soon realised, this job is my identity and I must justify my work to live a content life. No matter how much my colleagues chit-chat during office hours, I immerse myself in my work and try to make the most out of the time. It adds a purpose to my life.”
 
 
 
 Instead of looking at the bigger picture always and ranting questions like where will I end up after a year, I am not liking what I am doing, I am not justifying what I am doing, et al—start taking baby steps to conquer this plateau. Set short-term goals that will keep you determined and be the reason for you to wake up every morning.
 
 For instance, challenge yourself and take up new projects. Vikas Sharma, a marketing professional tells, “I try to keep pushing my limits and taking up new assignments. Initially, they might give me jitters, but they keep me excited too. When you push yourself out of your comfort zone and excel in that task, you explore what you thought you were never capable of. Trust me, there is no substitute of that feeling of accomplishment. It’s your own and nobody can take that from you.”
 
 If not work, look for something that helps you to break the monotony. Neha Sharma, an IT professional shares, “I like what I do, but honestly, I won’t do even a bit of it if I was not getting paid for that. Hence, I travel to keep myself inspired and motivated. I plan my trips and make targets to make them happen. I save for them and keep on changing my desktop wallpaper to stay enthused. I even keep on reading about my travel destination whenever I get time during my office hours. It’s my secret of staying happy.”
 
 
 
 We invest eight hours (or even more) of our day at workplace, and if one spends that time in a negative atmosphere…the day is bound to get screwed up. Try to cultivate a healthy workplace culture, and mind you, it all begins with you. Avoid being part of office politics and always have a positive, cheery attitude—it’s contagious. Kalpana Sharma, a media professional explains, “It is really important to cultivate a light atmosphere in your team. It helps cheer other team members who may not have started their day on a good note. Since we spend so much time at work, creating a positive environment goes a long way in ensuring everyone works in sync and with equal dedication and motivation.”
 
 
 
 It’s important to be ambitious and strike to be a better version of yourself every time but one must practice gratitude. The next time you crib about your job, think about those who got fired due to cost cutting! Or those who have a degree from a reputed college but are still sitting at home applying incessantly on job portals. Worse, those who could not even afford education and ended up doing blue collar  . You are blessed in countless ways, you just need to see around and realise it.
 
 “It’s all in your mind on how you see things. Life has to be more than just about constant anticipation of Friday night…right?” opines Zankhana.
 
 (*Name changed on request)
 
