GURGAON: A group of ‘gau rakshaks’ stopped four trucks carrying buffaloes on the Jaipur-Gurgaon expressway on Wednesday night and beat up the transporters, sending one of them to hospital with injuries.

 The latest episode of violent vigilantism in BJP-ruled Haryana by self-styled   groups unfolded on the Jaipur-Gurgaon expressway, a few hundred metres from the Kherki Daula toll plaza. The violence went on for nearly half an hour as the mob of ‘gau rakshaks’ rained blows and punches on the five men transporting the buffalos.
 
 Gurgaon, incidentally, is where the state government’s cow protection task force operates from, but police claimed to have no information on the trucks or the attack till officials at the toll plaza reported the violence to the local cops. 
 
 The transporters — contractor Suvalal and the four truck drivers — were booked on charges of animal cruelty because of the way the buffalos and calves had been packed into the trucks but police filed no case against the ‘gau rakshaks’. Inspector Yashwant of Kherki Daula police station said there was no need to do so as the injured man had reached a “compromise” and not registered a complaint against the vigilantes. 
 
 Investigating officer   said the police came to know about the attack, on the Jaipur side of the toll plaza, after the toll collectors called Kherki Daula police station. When the police arrived, they found 135 buffaloes and calves, of which one buffalo and 3 calves had died. By that time, though, the ‘gau rakshaks’ had fled and the injured man had been taken to SRS hospital. Seeing the state in which the animals were being carried, an FIR was registered for animal cruelty under Section 429 of IPC and clauses of the Prevention of Cruelty Against Animals Act.
 
 Amit Chaudhery of People for Animals, Gurgaon, said the animals were stuffed into the trucks because of which some of them are going to be “unable to stand up” while some “are suffering from internal bleeding/organ damage and are likely to succumb to injuries”. Sources said the buffaloes were being illegally transported without a licence but police did not confirm this. 
 
 Bharti Arora, officer-in-charge of the cow protection unit in Haryana, said it was a case of buffaloes, not cows, and that she was not aware of it. After it came to power, the BJP government in Haryana enacted a law to protect cows and also set up a police wing to stop slaughter and smuggling of cows in the state.
 
 But simultaneously, small groups of ‘gau rakshaks’ mushroomed across the state. These groups, with the advantage of local intelligence, have been involved in several cases of violence against cattle smugglers or people they believed to be so, and not hesitated in doling out punishment themselves rather than inform police and let the law take its course. 
 
 Recently, sessions judge Kumud Guglani had ordered an FIR registered against the head of a cow protection group and a policeman investigating after it found allegations that an alleged cattle smuggler had tried to run over people who tried to stop the truck false. 
 
 The judge lambasted the vigilantes for taking the law into their hands by putting up pickets and disrupting traffic. The judge noted the information could have been passed on to police. 
 
 
