JAIPUR: After a gap of 13 years, state government will conduct a physical survey to identify homeless in Jaipur and other cities. 

 In this regard, a roadmap will be submitted to the committee constituted by the   within 10 days. The department will also construct permanent night shelters for homeless and prepare a draft report for its maintenance for next two years. 
 
 Under   ( ), the civic body will equip night shelters with essential services. A meeting between committee members and civic body officials was held at directorate of local bodies ( ) office Tuesday where possibilities to upkeep nigh shelters were discussed. 
 
 An official informed, “There are 383 nigh shelters in the state. Other than mattresses and quilts, the civic body would have to provide reverse osmosis (RO) water, first-aid kit for homeless. A kitchen would also be set up along with deputation of a care taker at every shelter for 24 hours. Moreover, CCTV cameras will be installed for safety of women.” 
 
 After witnessing poor condition of night shelters in state, committee president Kailsah Gambhir (retired judge) directed the state government to maintain shelters as per the (National Urban Livelihoods Mission) guidelines set by the Supreme Court. 
 
 It was informed that shelters would be constructed on the basis of survey after learning number of homeless in the state. The last survey was conducted for homeless in 2003. 
 
 After constructing shelters, the department will have to provide information of shelters at bus stands and railway stations. Also, hoardings will be erected in the city for public information. 
 
 Apart from this, the department will have to upload details of every   on state web portal as well as website of National Urban Livelihoods Mission. “We have been asked to provide contact numbers of the care takers at shelters. Details such as number of shelters in every city, capacity of the shelters will also be uploaded on website.” 
 
 Sources present in the meeting said the committee has inspected night shelters in different cities and expressed disappointment over poor condition.
 
 
