Chennai: From Shillong to Kanyakumari, white label operators have a wide network and service rural pockets, undeserved by banks. But even three months post- demonetisation, many players say they are receiving only 1/3rd their daily requirement.  “Of this cash flow, more than 75% notes are Rs 2,000 notes which are no use to our customers. In the first place, a sizeable number number of customers are weekly wagers and don't have Rs 2,000 balance to withdraw. And even if they did, they would still have been stuck with a Rs 2,000 note that they can't get change for,” said the CEO of a white label operator, under anonymity as the banking system is under severe pressure from RBI to maintain a positive spin on cash flows. It has become common for ATMs, loaded with Rs 2,000 notes, to remain unused for days on end. “Our staff go to check ATMs only to find that people have not withdrawn the notes - meaning fewer cycles of cash replacement,” said the CEO. At BTI Payments, which has more than 4,200 ATMs in its network, their per day cash requirement is Rs 100 crore. But today the white label operator receives only 60% of its requirement. “More than 90% of our ATMs are located in semi-urban and rural areas, where the preferred denomination is Rs 100 and Rs 500 notes. What is the point in us getting 80% of notes in Rs 2,000 denomination? When ideally it should be the other way around. The denomination should be in sync with customers needs in rural pockets,” said K Srinivas, MD and CEO, BTI Payments. White label operators said that their distribution network was fairly seemless before demonetisation across over 25 states and more than 630 districts in India. "Earlier, we were moving cash from 220 locations to service remote villages in Bihar, Jharkhand, the North-East down to Tamil Nadu. Today, we are able to collect cash in only 100 locations. Now moving the cash to multiple locations become arduous. There is inadquate supply versus demand," said Srinivas. ATM operators said that ideally cash should be sourced closer to location. “For instance in Andhra Pradesh, today we are only getting cash only at a few centres like Vishakappatnam, Hyderabad, Vijayawada for the whole state’s needs,” said Srinivas. The RBI has stepped in and helped circulation of cash with ATM operators in rural areas, but players said that this was not enough. While operators are able to get cash, with the help of their partner banks from the RBI’s regional offices’ currency chests this has not been enough to tide over the crisis.  As to the Central Bank's suggestion that white-label operators can approach large retailers and shopping outlets to source cash, this has not really taken off on the ground. Another white label operator's chief operating officer said, "Banks take stringent measure to detect fake currency and weed out soiled notes. Retailers might not have such elaborate security measures in place, so we cannot out of the blue switch our cash sourcing to them." "It would help if we are able to get the network with retailers operational for sourcing cash. But, that will only solve 5% of our problem," added Srinivas of BTI Payments.