New Delhi: Cops have busted a human trafficking racket and have rescued three women, including a minor. The accused used to abduct girls from railway stations in Delhi and sell them off to traffickers in Haryana. 

 Police said that the inter state human trafficking syndicate was busted by the Special task force from South District after a team from Assam police had briefed the senior police officials about the human trafficking case in which an Assamese woman was trafficked by members of the  .
 
 The gangs would also traffic women to several districts in Haryana through a courier based system. After the Assamese women disclosed that the gang would abduct women and sell them and to Haryana based traffickers. Two more human traffickers- Payal and Sunil Jha were arrested by Assam Police.
 
 “The police team from Assam had informed us that the Assamese woman was abducted from Nagaon district in Assam in the month of May. We then constituted a special task force headed by ACP (Operations), Palwinder Singh Chahal to investigate into the matter,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Ishwar Singh.
 
 The investigating team had mounted a technical analysis, and two others were identified as Altaf and Ram Kesh. They were both residents of Ghaziabad and operators of the trafficking gang.
 
 When the accused got to know about a manhunt being launched to find the girl, they sent her off to her hometown, where she disclosed information about the gang members to the cop, following which they were traced and arrested. 
 
 They were interrogated by the police and it was found that the two accused had abducted the woman from New Delhi Railway Station and had, thereafter, sold her off to other members of this syndicate, Payal and Sunil Jha, who had been operating from Munirka in Vasant Vihar area.
 
 “The accused further disclosed that they had abducted several women from various railway stations across Delhi and sell them to Haryana based traffickers. Later two more abducted women, one resident of Kolkata, West Bengal and the other, a minor and resident of Bhagalpur, Bihar, were rescued,” Singh added.
 
 
