Kodinar: In a glaring oversight, the geology and mining department of   district has revealed the names of informers who tipped them off about illegal mining in the region, exposing them to the danger of being hounded by some miscreants involved in this nefarious activity. 

 The department has specifically named the informers as ‘references’ in the notices seeking explanation issued to several suspicious miners.
 
 Recently,  , an ex-Army personnel from Lodhva village near  , was flooded with phone calls from miners. “They asked me why had I given their names and the reason behind writing to the geology and mining department about their activities,”   told TOI.
 
 Initially, Solanki, an environment activist, could not understand how these people got to know about his letter to the department. It was later that he got to know that his name was mentioned as ‘reference’ in the letter of notices issued to the units. 
 
 “This is to inform you that you are operating a mine and Bhagvan Solanki has written that these mines are being operated without environment clearance certificate in Gir-Somnath district. If you have obtained it (certificate), you are hereby asked to submit it within 15 days or your virtual account would closed,” one of the letters written by the department to a miner reads.
 
 Solanki said that he had passed on details of nine mines operating without the environmental clearance to the geology and mines department. 
 
 “My duty was to inform them about irregularity and illegal mining and they should verify and take action against those violating the rules. But the department mentioned my name as ‘reference’ in the letter to all those mine operators. This is a serious lapse on their part which compromises an informer’s safety,” Solanki said.
 
 Anil Uniyal, geologist, Gir-Somnath district, admitted the blunder claiming that it was unintentional and his oversight. “Usually, we are extremely careful in such sensitive issues. I have communicated with Solanki and regretted the error.”
 
 Sources said that the geology and mining department does it routinely and pass on such sensitive tip to illegal miners with ‘reference’.
 
 The department has not spared forest department officers too, who have routinely informed them about illegal mining.
 
 “Few months ago, a forest officer wrote a letter about illegal mining in the 5km periphery around Gir Sanctuary to the department and asked them to stop it. But the department wrote letters to concerned operators naming the forest officer. This can put the life of our officer in danger as several people with criminal antecedents are involved in illegal mining. The department should take action on the basis of the information received and it is immaterial who provides the details,” a senior forest department officer told TOI.
 
 Rajkot-based environment activist   too shared a similar experience. “Last year, I wrote about illegal mining in a river in   village near Rajkot to the department. First, they imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on the miner but the second time, they gave away my name in a letter to the firm.”
 
