MUMBAI: Among the top ten   of the country last year, Mumbai has dropped to the 29th place in   2017, though   is much worse at 116. The only bright spot in the region is  , which stood 8th in the  . Other municipal areas in MMR, like Mira-Bhayander (130) and Vasai-Virar (139), are behind Thane.

 Mumbai’s poor showing is glaring given the hype with which the BMC launched the city’s Swachh campaign in November. From roping in actor Salman Khan as Mumbai’s face for the   (SBM), to declaring the city open defecation-free, the BMC seemed to be pressing all the right buttons. Except that reality didn’t keep pace with image-building.
 
 To be fair to the BMC, it did take a few positive measures: night sweeping was started at a few places and clean-up marshals were brought back to penalize those found littering. 
 
 Expressing disappointment at the rankings, Kiran Dighavkar, the BMC’s nodal officer for SBM, said, “We made all efforts from our side, like placing mobile toilets at various locations, especially in parts of Bandra and Juhu, painting walls with cleanliness messages, creating a short film showing how solid waste management workers clean the nooks and crannies of the city, and creating general awareness.”
 
 He said the survey’s changed criteria for this year and the inclusion of hundreds of small cities affected Mumbai’s rank. “In this survey we scored 1,535 marks, while last year it was 1,534—almost the same. So why has our rank dropped? While the last survey was conducted only at 75 cities, this time 434 were considered. Those that are now in the top ten have much smaller populations than Mumbai. Therefore, it’s unfair to compare these two different categories of cities—big and small.”
 
 He said that when compared with other mega cities like Chennai (rank 235) and Bengaluru (210), Mumbai emerges as having done very well.
 
 Dighavkar said one aspect of the survey where the city was hit the most was ‘direct citizen feedback’, for which 600 marks were allotted. “We scored the least (299) among all categories in citizen’s feedback, which shows that people didn’t come out and vote for Mumbai, which is unfortunate. People were required to call a number and vote for the city. That didn’t happen, affecting our scores. In other areas of evaluation we managed to score high. Like in ‘data provided by the municipal body’, we got 823 out of 900 while in ’direct evaluation’, we scored 415 out of 500, which again is a good score.”
 
 Activists say the fact that the people of Mumbai did not show any enthusiasm to root for the city in the survey is a reflection of just how bad things are on the ground.
 
 To survey the city’s cleanliness quotient, a team from the Quality Council of India (QCI), which is under the Union ministry of urban development, visited Mumbai during January 7-9. Out of the total marks of 2,000 on which cities were marked, 500 were for data collection through direct observation and independent assessment by surveyors, 900 was for data provided by a particular municipal body, and 500 for collection of direct feedback from citizens.
 
 
