Even before the sun makes its appearance from the East, the women of Bhattier ward in Nerul rise up and begin to hustle and bustle in the kitchen. The ungodly hour on the second Sunday of May does not deter them from singing and sharing jokes as they prepare for one of Goa’s quaint tribute to seafood and the tradition of fishing.

 Nerul is a small fishing hamlet famous for being surrounded by the Sinquerim river and the beautiful palm -fringed Coco beach. Situated opposite the state capital Panaji on the northern bank of River Mandovi, Nerul shares borders with the historic village of Verem-Reis Magos, where the famed Tisreachem Fest is also celebrated, albeit in a smaller way.
 
 Tisreachem Fest or the feast of clams is a community celebration that is held once a year at the tiny chapel of St Anthony in Bhattier vaddo of Nerul. Interestingly, the feast is also celebrated at Dandadi vaddo and Fortavaddo, indicating that the culinary celebration has nothing to do with a specific date.
 
 As the village wakes up, each home pulsates with activity. Residents scramble to open clams and prepare the ingredients as fast as possible so that the Sunday Eucharist at the Our Lady of Remedies Church is not missed.
 
 “There is no specific day for the feast and Tisreachem fest is not associated with any Christian or religious feast. There is no religious significance to it. It is just a chance for the community to come together,” Nerul parish priest Fr Bolmax Fidelis Pereira says.
 
 While there is no religious significance behind the tradition, Nerul’s idyllic surroundings have a lot to do with the feast. The nearby creek and the cove at the mouth of the River Mandovi was a thriving location for clams and mussels and the villagers, most of whom were fisherfolk, soon took to collecting the tisreos (clams), and shinaneo (mussels) and the village soon gained popularity in Bardez.
 
 Tisreos used to be collected in large numbers and distributedin the early days. “This is a tradition that pre-dates the Portuguese rule. Nerul and Verem were known for a rich harvest of Tisreo and since the locals were mainly fishermen they decided to dedicate a day of thanksgiving for the abundance of tisreo,” heritage activist and historian Prajal Sakhardande explains.
 
 Another unique facet of the Tisreachem Fest is that it showcases the communitarian and secular fabric of Goa. This age-old tradition, over centuries, continues to be celebrated with equal gusto by both Hindus and Christians.
 
 Once the Eucharist is over, the Catholics join their village brethren at a common place to continue the cooking. And cooking for Tisreachem Fest translates into the sambaracheo tisreo (a tasty delicacy prepared from tisreo) or tisreo xacuti.
 
 While the women busy themselves with large quantities of shellfish and coconut grating, the men chip in by chopping large quantities of onions, chillies and tomatoes. The kids are left to run errands or to purchase missed out ingredients.
 
 Apart from the few mansions and resorts built in Nerul, the village still retains its original charm, relatively untouched by modern tourism. There is still a strong fishing community and the villagers also grow watermelons, ground nut, rice and vegetables.
 
 “This feast is celebrated in other villages also, but not on as big a scale as in Nerul. It was started by the village forefathers and we continue this tradition. One of the reasons why this festival is celebrated in May is because many people used to come down to the coast for the summer and this became a celebration,” Nerul sarpanch Shashikala Govekar explains.
 
 According to the local tradition, each feast has an appointed president in whose house the sambaracheo tisreo curry is prepared. Continuing the age-old tradition of giving thanks for God’s blessings, the president or host of the feast offers the banquet of clams as a personal thanksgiving.
 
 “The feast has to be booked one-year in advance. The tradition of this feast has been going on for generations. In the olden days, the tisreo were served in bowls made out of banyan leaves, but we have switched over to ready made silver foil bowls. There is also a tradition of serving mangoes or jackfruit along with the tisreo,” local resident David D’Souza, who hosted the Tisreachem Fest last May said.
 
 
