A dead person has reportedly come alive in the records of   ( ) not once, but four times, to “facilitate” fraudulent constructions by a local real estate developer, who not only allegedly indulged in unfair means to get the requisite approvals, but also took up projects at wrong sites.
 
  Bizarrely enough, officials of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) “failed” to detect the purported irregularities in the papers submitted by the realtor. An internal probe is already on to unearth their complicity, if any, in the alleged building scam. The realtor has denied all the allegations. The allegations against Nand Kumar Salvi have been levelled by   and  , owners of the plots at Thane’s Parsik Nagar in Kharegaon, which are at the centre of the land-grab row.
  
  Vijay and Balaram, whose dead father Madhav Bhagat has been apparently shown alive by Salvi, claimed to have detected the fraud in 2009. They filed complaints with the TMC, and are also fighting several court cases. According to Vijay, it all started in 2002 when a developer called Anant Tare approached TMC for developing a plot at Parsik Nagar that belonged to Madhav. The builder took out a power of attorney purportedly signed by Madhav, who died in 1996.
  
  “That was the first time that Bhagat’s father was shown alive. But as Anant did not submit other documents, the plan was scrapped. However, he sold that plot to Salvi in 2004 by invoking the false power of attorney. Salvi then used the same trick when he submitted building plans to the TMC. This time, the deceased was shown to have signed the power of attorney a month after he died. The gaffe went unchecked by corporation officials,” Vijay claimed.
  
  But instead of taking up constructions in the said land, Salvi allegedly started work in an adjacent plot, 100 metres away, belonging to Vijay. A seven-storey building by the name of Shrijee was raised.
  
  “I complained to the TMC and found out that a plan was passed for a different plot . I approached the builder but he said that he could not do anything as construction had begun. Through my sources, I got documents of the plan and informed Balaram. To my surprise, even he was unaware of the developments,” Vijay claimed. Salvi apparently didn’t stop there.
  
  He is said to have once again used the fake power of attorney and other documents to get another plan approved for a nearby plot that is also owned by the Bhagats. A 17-storey plush tower, Keshav Heights, with two wings was built on this land. In this case, the land revenue office had initially rejected his proposal, saying the said plot did not exist on the site shown in the building plan. But the builder allegedly got the same approved on the basis of fake agreements.
  
  “We also got an order from the sub-divisional office in 2013, asking the TMC commissioner to cancel the plan and demolish both the buildings. As the current TMC commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal has started a drive to demolish illegal structures, we have submitted fresh complaints to him,” said Pramod Patil, a lawyer representing Balaram in the court cases.
  
  In an   reply obtained by Vijay from the TMC, the civic body has said that there is no evidence of valid papers presented by Salvi and despite that, the building plans were cleared by TMC officers — Narendra Rane, who was the town planning officer and is retired now, Anil Berud (rtd), Sadashiv Mane, who still works in the town planning department, and V.N. Basagare, the present surveyor. A private architect,  , had allegedly prepared the bogus plans.
  
  TMC has initiated an inquiry against these officers, which is pending since the past three years. Asked for his comments, Additional Municipal Commissioner Sunil Chavan said, “The complainants met me earlier. The matter of land demarcation can be sorted out by the land revenue department. We will write to the department for a fresh survey. Action will be taken after that.”
  
  Salvi said he was innocent and that blackmailing tactics were being applied against him. “We have all the permissions and the power of attorney was taken before Madhav Bhagat had died. In fact, we procured the power of attorney from all 27 members of the family and they have sold the land to me. There is nothing illegal in the projects. The complainants have been turned away by all government offices and also the courts. They have been harassing me since long.”
  
  Asked why he took up constructions on Vijay’s plot if he had requisite approvals only for Bhagat’s land, Salvi said it was not true.
  
  “I got the plan for that plot cleared by the TMC as well. This is negative propaganda against me,” he said.
