JALANDHAR: Much like   assembly elections, the contest in Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Managing Committee (DSGMC) polls is set to be multi-cornered. Again, like Punjab, and the groups opposing Badal clan-led SAD have failed to come on a common platform. However, efforts are still on to work out some understanding among the groups.

 At present, five different groups are fielding their candidates: SAD unit headed by DSGMC president Manjit Singh GK; Paramjit Singh Sarna-led SAD (Delhi), which earlier controlled the DSGMC; Panthak Sewa Dal headed by AAP MLA Avtar Singh Kalkaji; former Akal Takht jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh’s Akal Sahai Welfare Society; and former Darbar Sahib Hazoori ragi Beldev Singh Wadala’s Sikh Sadbhawana Dal.
 
 The last date for filing nominations is February 8. SAD has already released two lists of its candidates — 26 in the first list released on Sunday, which included five present office-bearers of DSGMC and 13 other members of the committee, and 10 in the second list released on Monday evening.
 
 Panthak Sewa Dal was formed recently by Sikh activists sympathizing with AAP and it is headed by party MLA Avtar Singh Kalka. Sarna is considered close to the Congress. In fact, he got closer to Congress leaders, especially Punjab Congress president Captain  , after he severed tied with Parkash Singh Badal.
 
 Sources revealed that even as there have been attempts to bring Sarna and Bhai Ranjit on board but till now the attempts have not succeeded. Sources close to   said that he wanted that three groups – his own, one led by Wadala and the third led by Kalka – should have a seat sharing arrangement but there were still some glitches. 
 
 Speaking to TOI on phone from Delhi, Bhai Ranjit said that he was trying to bring the other groups together so that those having hegemony on gurdwara affairs and having shady record could be defeated. 
 
 GK said that they would get advantage of the multi-cornered contest.
 
 Around four lakh Sikhs have been registered as voters for DSGMC in Delhi and the number is believed to be half of the total eligible Sikh voters in Delhi.
 
 
