PUNE: Most would think of retirement as a time to finally relax after years of hard work. But for Major   (retd), it meant he finally had the time to honour those who had laid down their lives in the line of duty.

 After serving in the Army for 37 years, Jha retired on September 30, 2016. He began his   across the country on October 19 and reached Pune on February 24, where he paid homage to martyrs at the   at Southern Command.
 
 The 59-year-old veteran has already covered 20 states on cycle and Maharashtra is the 21st. His wife, Chitra, has been supporting him throughout the journey by following him in a car and taking care of logistics.
 
 An Infantry man, Jha has been through many a combat situation and witnessed the loss of many peers and friends who passed away defending the integrity and freedom of the country. He thus took upon himself to honour these bravehearts in his own unique way by cycling over 12,000 km.
 
 Jha said, “Just before retiring from the service, I was thinking of all those brave soldiers whom I could not save. I felt that I should do something different to pay my respects to their supreme sacrifice and I devised this plan.” Jha is the third generation of soldiers from his family in West Bengal to serve the Army. He had joined the force as a second lieutenant in 1979. 
 
 Not a man to waste words, Jha described his new mission simply, “I have two mandates that I am determined on following. I will be cycling for two minutes for every fallen soldier and I am going to cover the entire country by cycling through all 29 states”.
 
 He said the idea of the cycle mission had struck him before he retired. “But many colleagues dissuaded me, citing my age as a concern but I have realised that this journey is more about will power.”
 
  Chitra, a writer and holistic health coach, has been looking after the logistics of the journey. “It is my duty to give company to him,” she said. The car follows Jha with two drivers and a spare cycle.
 
 The route for a day’s cycling is finalised in advance. Jha begins cycling early in the morning and the support team starts only one or two hours after Jha hits the road. On a day, he cycles anywhere between 60-150km, depending on the terrain. A day’s cycling is over by 3 pm.
 
 On the 119th day of the expedition on Friday, Jha had covered 22 states travelling 7,100 km.
 
 Jha commenced his journey from Ambala, heading eastwards he covered the states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, the North East, Central and Eastern Coast. He entered Maharashtra after touring Karnataka and Goa.
 
 The cycle expedition is a journey of more than 12,000 km, which, if all goes according to the plan, will end at the Amar Jawan Jyoti (India Gate), New Delhi, by April. When asked about his experience so far, he said: “This journey has redeemed my faith in Indian citizens. Civilians are just as patriotic as the men in uniform.”
 
