LUCKNOW: Having played the “deciding factor” on   for decades and reduced to a non-entity by the Modi wave in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Muslims in the state are on a wait and watch stance ahead of UP elections. The ongoing battle of supremacy in the Samajwadi Party’s first family and BSP chief Mayawati’s history of aligning with the BJP to come to power has also kept them cautiously waiting. 

 Apart from the time-tested formula of supporting the candidate who can defeat the BJP, Muslims so far have shown an inclination towards the   with Akhilesh Yadav as the chief ministerial candidate. But the ongoing pari-war within the Yadav clan has left them confused. 
 
 On the other hand is BSP, which is looking at a formidable Dalit-Muslim combination and is reaching out to the Muslims like never before, fielding 97 candidates from the minority community to appeal to the 19% Muslim electorate.
 
 A divided Muslim vote translates to poll gains for the BJP while a consolidation will spell trouble, as minorities play a crucial role in at least 125 of the 403 constituencies in the state that goes to the polls in early 2017. Aware of the impact that en-block Muslim support could leave, the community is treading with caution. 
 
 “There is confusion within the community over the political drama unfolding in the SP,” says Maulana Salman Nadvi. 
 
 “If the confusion continues, then Muslims obviously will start turning towards the BSP and possibilities of other secular parties like the Congress. Smaller outfits looking for their share from the minority pie would only mean division of the minority vote which will only benefit the BJP,” said Nadvi, a senior faculty at the renowned seminary Darul-uloom Nadwatul Ulama in Lucknow. The seminary is seen on a par with the world-renowned Darul Uloom Deoband seat of learning in Saharanpur. Most senior clerics at Deoband also said that the community was yet to make up its mind for the upcoming elections.
 
 Imam Bukhari of Delhi’s Jama Masjid shares a blow hot, blow cold relationship with Mulayam and Akhilesh and had come out in the open to call upon the community to teach a lesson to the SP. Barelvi cleric Maulana Tauqeer Raza fears that the Muslim votes are likely to get split because of the prevailing confusion among the Muslims and the situation has come as a blessing in disguise for BJP. Maulana Ashraf Kichhochhvi of All India Ulama and Masaikh Board, a body of Sunni Sufi Muslims, said it was time for the community to make up its mind and vote for the party which can keep the communal forces at bay and also provide effective governance in the state.
 
