NEW DELHI:   (37) was pleasantly surprised when the police gave him his phone, an hour after it was stolen from his friend’s car when they stepped out to have ice cream outside   station. Speaking to TOI, Ali said that he had to attend a meeting at   around 6pm and had asked his friend,  , to pick him up from the Metro station. 

 The two parked the XUV 500 there and came back after two hours. They then decided to have ice cream and started walking towards a vendor. “We stepped out of the car and walked towards a stall nearby when we realised that both of us had left our phones in the car. We went back to get them but found them missing,” said Ali. 
 
 Ali added, “We borrowed a phone from a passerby and called on our numbers, but both the phones were switched off. We kept trying. A little over an hour later, we tried again and this time, a policeman answered the phone. To our surprise, he asked us to come to the IP Estate police station and collect our phones. When we reached there, they told us how they had nabbed the criminal,” Ali added. According to the police, after taking away the phones from Abhishek’s car, the accused had gone towards a narrow lane nearby. 
 
 An hour later, he snatched the phone of a man who was in an auto. However, the man,   (44) got off the auto immediately and chased him down. He then immediately took him to the police station and handed him over to the police. Rajesh was walking towards   from the ITO traffic signal when the snatcher attacked him. He told the police that he had come to the area to attend a function and was returning when the incident took place. 
 
 Rajesh told the police that as soon as his phone was snatched, he did not waste a moment and started chasing the accused. In his complaint, Rajesh also said that he raised and alarm and kept shouting ‘chor chor’ because of which several other people started chasing the snatcher. The snatcher was finally caught after almost a two-kilometre chase. The phones stolen by the accused in both the cases were found and given back to the owners, police said.
 
