NEW DELHI: A 20-year-old student at a school for the blind was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly sodomising a 11-year-old boy inside the campus at   after the victim’s parents lodged a complaint with the school authorities. Children of classes III to XI studying at the school, most from UP and Haryana, stay in the hostel above the school premises.

 Sources said that the accused was caught trying to drag another child from Class VIII to his room last year. However, he was let off with a warning by the principal after his parents apologised to the victim’s family. 
 
 The school principal is being questioned as to why a sexual assault matter was wrapped up and not reported to the police. Action may be initiated against the school staffers as well.
 
 On February 6, the victim’s parents registered a complaint against the accused youth at the principal’s office. The boy, who is 100% visually challenged, said that the accused stayed in the same hostel room and often made him do chores. He said the accused had also abused him on January 1 after which the matter was reported by his uncle to the vice-principal, S P Singh.
 
 The principal called the family members of the accused who apologised to the victim’s parents in writing. “We decided not to expel him since the Board exams were due in a couple of months,” Singh said.
 
 However, on February 6, the youth against forced himself on the child. The victim told the police that he even threatened to strangle him. He did not reveal this to his guardian, an employee at the school, until the next evening following which Singh informed the police.
 
 The accused youth is partially blind and used this to his advantage to assault the other children. He is mediocre in studies and often required assistance from the teachers after classes. His family is being questioned to know if he had this trait since childhood. “A case under POCSO and IPC Section 377 (unnatural sex) has been registered against the accused. Both the victim and accused have been medically examined,” said DCP (southeast) Romil Baaniya.
 
 Police suspect that the accused might have assaulted other children too, which were not reported to the principal fearing stigma. A counselling session is being conducted with the other children to identify more victims.
 
 
