
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  This is a massive initiative and the digital landscape is going to dramatically transform India. This is a wonderful statement that you have made, but I believe this is a dramatic change in Indian banking. And thanks to Aadhaar, account opening has become very simple and on mobile. We seriously started working on this project in November last year and then RBI came out with OTP. You see how dramatically some sectors have changed, like telecom. Thanks to biometrics you can open millions of accounts. This is like creating a bank in a bank and will lead to a mindset shift. We think through this we can double our current customer base of 8 million in 18 months.
  
  
 
  
  We think it's sustainable and at this point there is no intent to charge. Picture this: We are sitting in India, which has huge number of customers; when you move money from your wallet to your bank account you pay charges, there are several charges associated to branch banking. We have said let us make this simple and stupid. Zero balance and zero charges for 811 customers. As they go down the journey if they want the physical world then those charges will apply, but the choice is with the customer. If a customer wants to do cash or ATM transaction then we will give a physical debit card separately, but that is unbundled. That is the customer's choice.
  We are not forcing anyone. But if you want to be in the virtual world, there is a virtual debit card with this account. The biggest issue with charges is that a customer did not have a choice; they had to pay.
  
  
 
  
  First of all, the board will take a view whether to do it, how much to do it, and you have got to keep in mind the broader vision as we see it...So when the board is evaluating, it has to figure out what are the opportunities for growth. And that's why I shared the bigger picture about what are the bigger opportunities. In banking industry, additional `4 lakh crore hit has to be taken and there are `10 lakh crore stressed assets that have to be resolved. And even if stressed assets get 3:1 leverage you still need `2.5 lakh crore of equity. So when you are looking at such humongous numbers of capital in the system here we are sitting with strong strategic management. And ratios are finally ratios, they don't give you the absolute picture of capital the Indian economy needs, and the opportunity for transformation is huge.
  
  
 
  
  Capital is capital, it's fungible. If the board decides to raise funds, it will be available for everything. Bank can deploy capital for organic growth as well.
  
  
 
  
  On the whole, in consolidation space at this stage we are not doing anything or making any announcement at all. So we are not at a stage where we need to announce anything or share with investors and you. However, I am a big believer in the consolidation theory.Therefore, as consolidation opportunities come, if they make sense and create value for our shareholders, our board will consider this.But there is nothing as of now.
  
  
 
  
  There are three big opportunities: first is digital transformation, second is the whole opportunity in the stressed asset space, and third is down the road there needs to be consolidation. If you take these three big opportunities and consider a platform where formal financial savings are growing rapidly, the opportunity is huge.
  
  
 
  
  Don't read any message into this, but look when we acquired  , we immediately moved their stressed book to our bad bank and we ran it as a bad bank. Private sector's ability to take these calls is much stronger. So if we can acquire a bad bank portfolio of ING Vysya Bank, the whole portfolio of stress in the system we are open to looking at. But on what basis, when, and how, only time will tell.
  
  
 
  
  The whole area of stressed asset resolution in Indian banking is massive and it has been delayed for so many years. Crunch time has come. I thought RBI deputy governor Viral Acharya's paper was very interesting and he has also talked about significant private sector initiatives. We think in the private sector we will have the ability to have strategic capital or raise strategic capital as also to be able to have strategic management, because we have been one of the earliest players in the distressed assets  .
  
  
 
  
  You have to look in the context of what your objective is. Historically, people went for branches because you got customers. Therefore, whenever you are looking at anything, look at your objective. If the objective is to get customers, earlier branches used to be the primary way of getting more customers.We are now saying that it is not the only way to get customers. The digital world is enabling customer acquisition outside of branches. So if you combine these two, you have to see customer acquisition as the basis of your lens, not physical infrastructure alone. 
