BENGALURU: Karnataka is planning to adopt the Gujarat town-planning model in order to solve the problem of escalating land cost, in addition to easing the land acquisition process. 

 Under the  , land that belongs to different owners is pooled together by the local development authority, before developing layouts or townships. The sites are subsequently redistributed among the owners.
 
 Although the idea of land pooling has existed as a provision o f the   1963, it was ignored for long owing to political reasons. Inspired by the efficacy of the Gujarat town-planning model, the Andhra Pradesh government decided to adopt the same to design and develop the state's new capital Amaravathi. However, a minor alteration to the scheme, wherein the land owners were partially compensated monetarily, while the remaining amount was compensated in developed sites, resulted in the scheme not working out as efficiently in Andhra Pradesh. Consequently, the response to the model was mixed in AP. 
 
  "This process enables the local planning authority to develop the pooled land, without forcing the owners to sell it to the government at throwaway prices. Also, it is a transparent process, which ensures freedom in design and control on growth and development," said additional chief secretary, urban development department (UDD), Mahendra Jain. 
 
 UDD secretary V Ponnuraj s aid, "We will first convince those who own land in fragments in the vicinity to come together, and work as partners with the local development authority to develop townships. Subsequently, they will sign an agreement with the farmers, and develop the entire township or layout. The compensation will be given only in land." 
 
 Ponnuraj pointed out that the local authorities would retain at least 10% of the developed land for revenue generation. "Based on an agreed distribution ratio, a portion of the land will be handed over to the farmers, while the revenue from the pooled land will then be divided among the farmers equitably," he added.
 
 Besides the   (BDA), the scheme will also be implemented by the Belagavi Urban Development Authority, before it is extended to other bodies, Ponnuraj said.
 
 According to the UPA's Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 - adopted by Karnataka - the government has to pay four times the land value as compensation in rural areas, and twice the value in urban centres. This has proved to be a huge stumbling block for local development bodies in the state, looking to take up affordable housing schemes.
 
  "The cost of land acquisition wasn't too high, and creating layouts and townships cost a quarter of what they do today. It yielded a lot of political dividends, and generated revenue for the state and the local authority,." an official said. 
 
