SURAT: The   Limited (ICEX) is all set to debut the   from April that will allow the traders, merchants and common individuals to trade in the precious stones in a transparent manner. 

 With this India will become the first country in the world where polished diamonds will be traded on the commodity exchange. Diamond polishing hub Surat will be the delivery centre for diamonds starting from April.
 
 “We are launching diamond contractors starting from April. Polished diamond will be traded for the first time in the world on commodity exchange and Surat will be the delivery centre,” said managing director of ICEX, Sanjit Prasad. 
 
 After the government of India notified diamonds as the commodity for trading, the   (SEBI) gave ICEX permission to launch diamond contractors. The ICEX team have been organizing workshops at various location across the country, specially in Mumbai and Surat—the diamond hubs—to educate traders, merchants and general public about the benefits of diamond contracts. 
 
 ICEX will be initially launching three contracts for the stones sized 30 cent, 50 cents and 1 carat. It has also tied up with International Institute of Diamond Grading and Research (IIDGR), a fully-owned subsidiary of global major   based in Surat, for grading and packing of the diamonds.
 
 Prasad informed that ICEX will be launching mock trading starting from February 14 to March 15. Once the contracts will start trading on an exchange, it will become a financial investment product. Diamond has never been able to become an investment product due to low transparency in pricing.
 
 The South Gujarat Share Brokers’ Association (SGSBA) has become the member of ICEX. However, all the members of the SGSBA wanting will have to register through them to become the members of ICEX. 
 
 Sources said that there will be a minimum physical delivery lot at one carat (1 carat equals 100 cents). It means that if someone buys a contract for a 1-carat diamond, he or she would get the physical delivery of the stone too. Individuals investing in smaller lot sizes would be able to trade in electronic units representing the value of the diamond. 
 
