MYSURU: Former MLC and BJP leader   has written a letter to Union minister for Human Resources Development (MHRD), Prakash Javdekar, demanding a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the   (KSOU) scam. But K S  , former Vice Chancellor of the KSOU, stated that G Madhusudana's allegations are like old wine in new bottle and baseless.

 Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, G Madhusudana alleged that officers from All India Council for Technical Education ( ), Medical Council of India (MCI), para medical board, University Grants Commission (UGC) and two former vice chancellors of the university i.e. K S Rangappa and M G Krishnan are involved in this scam which has affected the future of more than 3.25 lakh students.
 
 "This scam is spread across the Asian countries with bogus certificates were issued even in several foreign countries. UGC, MHRD, MCI officials who are aware of this scam are silent and trying to protect the culprits," he alleged.
 
 "Since 2015 university has been closed following de-recognition by the UGC for various illegal Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) it signed. University entered into illegal agreements with various companies both within the country and outside the country without UGC or AICTE approval. Private companies are allowed to hold examinations and announce results and issue marks cards and degree certificates. Marks cards were sold in huge numbers for money every where. It is one the biggest scams of the post Independent era," he alleged.
 
 "KSOU had illegally launched four bridge courses. Now these course marks cards led to a massive marks cards and admission scam. Even after the reports of massive corruption in the various courses, KSOU still continue to hold examinations and issuing certificates," he alleged.
 
 G Madhusudana also stated that state government is not acting against the KSOU scams due to K S Rangappa's close proximity with few politicians.
 
 G Madhusudana also urged the JDS national president H D Devegowda not to give party ticket to K S Rangappa in the forthcoming election from any of the constituencies of Mysuru.
 
 When contacted K S Rangappa stated that G Madhusudana has become job less and that is why he is making wild allegations against him. "Let him write letters to all. I don't fear about any kind of investigation. I don't want to react to his allegations which are baseless and defamatory. They are like old wine in new bottle," he said.
 
