NEW DELHI: The AAP’s government proposal, floated a year-and-a-half ago by   minister Satyendar Jain, to redesign 10 roads under a pilot project to overhaul city infrastructure is likely to take some more time to bear fruit. PWD secretary   has raised concerns about certain aspects of the designs submitted by the consultant and will soon meet traffic police to iron out the issues.

 Among the major issues raised by Kumar about Vikas Marg and Narwana Road -- both in east Delhi -- which he inspected recently, are the necessity of having a non-motorised vehicle lane and the problem of  . This holds especially true for Vikas Marg, which sees a high volume of motorised traffic through the day. Kumar has also asked whether it’s practical to designate a 1.5m stretch from the main carriageway on Vikas Marg as a multi-utility stretch.
 
 “Out of the stretches identified, I inspected two roads. The designs submitted for these are not entirely satisfactory in light of their impact on the existing traffic scenario. Reducing carriageway for the sake of creating a multi-utility zone may adversely impact traffic flow,” said Kumar.
 
 Experts, however, said the proposals were made as per UTTIPEC guidelines and Supreme Court directions on creation of footpaths and   for safety of pedestrians and cyclists, and that removing these components may not be possible.
 
 Of the 11 stretches initially identified, DG Gupta Road has been included in the east-west corridor project and will be taken up separately. The proposal for the 11th stretch is yet to be finalised. For the remaining nine stretches, proposals have been made and estimates prepared based on the designs.
 
 According to initial plans, the stretches were to have streetscaping and provision for pedestrians and users of non-motorised vehicles like bicycles. Redesigning would also include development of public spaces on these roads through benches and proper lighting to ensure safety of pedestrians. Other components included multi-utility zones, drainage, a clear central verge, greenery on side of the roads, plazas for multiple use, standardised signages, etc.
 
 The changes, said officials, would also solve the problem of congestion by eliminating bottlenecks. “Fluctuating road width creates bottlenecks and slows traffic. A major reason for uneven width of a road is encroachments and the design for each road will keep in mind its needs and local conditions,” said the official.
 
 
