PUNE: Residents would have to wait a few more days to be supplied water twice a day. 

  on Saturday said the civic body was still in the process of finalising the schedule, and it is expected to be released only next week.
 
 The decision to provide twice-a-day   was announced by district guardian minister Girish Bapat at the canal committee meeting on January 3. Citizens were expecting the administration to act fast to resume the supply.
 
 “We do not know why the administration needs a week to reschedule water supply. People have been demanding more water for a long time, so authorities should not delay it further,” Neeraj Wadekar, a resident of  , said.
 
 The civic body on Saturday said the irrigation department has given its consent to lift additional 100MLD water from the dam every day through a pipeline. With this, the city will receive 1,350MLD water every day against its earlier quota of 1,250MLD.
 
 An official from Pune Municipal Corporation’s water department said a meeting was held on Saturday, and another is expected on Monday to chalk out the plan for additional water supply and ensure equitable distribution. The new plan will come in force mostly after Wednesday, officials said. 
 
 City’s water supply was curtailed to alternate days in September 2015 due to scarce rainfall. The supply was increased to once a day in August 2016 after an excellent monsoon, especially in the catchment areas of dams.
 
 The civic body and elected representatives have been demanding 1,350MLD water everyday. Mayor Prashant Jagtap had alleged that Bapat was not allowing   to lift its daily quota of water and instead the water was being released for agriculture.
 
 “We had increased the water supply to 1,250 MLD in August after water stock in Panshet, Khadakwasla, Varasgaon and Temghar had reached maximum capacities. Now the supply will further go up to 1,350MLD,” an official said.
 
 Water stock in dams at 20TMC
 
 The collective stock in the four dams that supply water to the city Panshet, Khadakwasla, Varasgaon and Temghar was recorded at 20.07TMC as against last year’s stock of 12.17 TMC. The stock in Temghar, which is expected to undergo repairs, has been depleted to 4%. The repair works are expected to begin this month.
 
 
