NEW DELHI: In a rare surgery, doctors at AIIMS recently replaced both the hip and knee joints of a 21-year-old patient suffering from   in one sitting.

 Simply put, juvenile inflammatory arthritis is an uncommon disorder that causes inflammation of the joints since childhood. Its etiology is not known. Dr  , professor and head of orthopaedics at AIIMS, said most such cases do not require multiple joint replacements. However, in case of Guddu, the 21-year-old patient from Bihar, this was needed because all four hip and knee joints were fused together, making it impossible for him to walk or even sit comfortably.
 
 The surgery, Dr Malhotra said, was conducted last month and there is already significant improvement in mobility because of physiotherapy. “He is able to walk with support. We are hopeful he will be able to do so himself soon,” the AIIMS surgeon added. Doctors said usually two joints are replaced in one go but in this case, four joints had to be replaced so the surgical team was divided into two groups.
 
 “First, the left and the right hip joints were replaced. After that, two teams separately operated on both the knees to replace the joints promptly,” said Dr  , one of the surgeons involved in the case.
 
 Guddu’s bones, he added, were fused to the extent that locating the joints in the knees and the hips was a task in itself. “Experience of dealing with such cases and the support of a good anaesthesia team, led by Dr  , helped us tide over the risks of conducting four major surgeries in one go and most importantly, the risk of blood loss,” Dr Malhotra said.
 
 He said the whole process took nearly four to five hours. “Surgery was completed in 2 hours and 50 minutes and rest of the time was spent in preparing the patient for surgery and giving him anaesthesia,” a doctor said.
 
 Inflammation of the joints due to arthritis is a serious condition but it can be treated with medicines and minor surgical intervention if diagnosed early. “Unfortunately, poor patients do not have access to basic healthcare. Many of them opt for alternative therapies or resign to their fate leading to complications, as was the case with Guddu. This case highlights the need for urgent attention in arthritis cases in children and awareness about surgical options available,” the AIIMS professor said.
 
 
