BHOPAL: Congress may have stalwarts like Ajay Singh, Mahendra Singh Kalukhera and Ram Niwas Rawat sitting in the state assembly, but when it comes to appointment of Leader of Opposition (LoP), these senior legislators might fall behind in the competition, because they belong to the “wrong’ caste. Four months after the demise of Satyadev Katare, the   is gearing up to appoint the new LoP a day before budget session starts next Tuesday.

 Those in the race are former LoP Ajay Singh, former minister Mahendra Singh Kalukhera, acting LoP Bala Bachchan, senior MLAs Ram Niwas Rawat and Mukesh Nayak. However, sources in the state Congress said a dark horse could emerge as the choice of the high-command simply going by the party’s caste equations. And chances are he would be a Brahmin.
 
 Out of power for three terms in January 2014, the Congress spilt its limited positions in such a way that it gave representation to every caste. Arun Yadav, an OBC, was made state Congress president while Satyadev Katare, a Brahmin was made LoP. Bala Bachchan representing the tribal community was made deputy LoP and Rajendra Singh was appointed deputy speaker being from the powerful Thakur lobby.
 
 “After Katare’s demise, the high-command might be under a compulsion to appoint another Brahmin face, just to be fair to all castes and communities,” a senior state Congress leader told TOI. “We were thinking there could be a reshuffle and new faces brought in. Less than two years to next assembly election, seniors like Ajay Singh, Mahendra Singh Kalukhera, Ram Niwas Rawat should have been the obvious choice. But the strange problem has arisen with the post of deputy speaker.”
 
 Congress leaders explained that both Ajay Singh and Kalukhera are ‘Thakurs’ so is another former minister of the Digvijaya Singh government Dr Govind Singh. “Two persons from the ‘thakur’ community cannot be given top post, it would upset the caste balance. And Rajendra Singh cannot be moved out of deputy speaker because the ruling BJP might refuse to give the post to the Congress again,” the senior Congress leader said. It is a tradition in Madhya Pradesh assembly that the deputy Speaker comes from the Opposition party. But since the Narendra Modi-Centre refused to give the deputy Speaker position to the Congress, the party is wary of moving out Rajendra Singh.
 
 “Hence, Thakurs no matter how powerful or eligible, could be kept away from the seat of LoP. No OBC can be appointed because state president Arun Yadav is from the caste. The only option is a minor reshuffle of LoP and deputy LOP,” a Congress MLA said. “Bala Bachchan, who has been leading the Congress legislative party (CLP) in the House since Katare fell grievously ill, could get the job of LoP. Meanwhile, a Brahmin face either of Mukesh Nayak or Sundarlal Tiwari could emerge for a new role.
 
 Nayak may have difficulties getting the job since he is relative of a senior bureaucrat known to be extremely close to chief minister  . Sources said party central leaders already view him as chief minister Chouhan’s candidate. The dark horse here is Sundarlal Tiwari, son of former Speaker Shriniwas Tiwari, an erstwhile MP and is personally known to AICC president  . His performance in both Lok Sabha and state assembly has been impressive.
 
