LUCKNOW: A pre-poll alliance between the Samajwadi Party and Congress is expected to be formlised early next week. Insiders told TOI chief minister Akhilesh Yadav will travel to New Delhi on January 9, where he is expected to meet Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi -- who returns to India from his overseas trip on January 8 -- and sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to thrash out the nuances of the alliance. A joint announcement may also be made after the meeting. 

 Akhilesh’s meeting with the Gandhi brother-sister duo follows the preliminary talks between Akhilesh and Priyanka held in the second week of December, when both camps reportedly made their keenness to ally, known. The SP-Congress combine is even more significant now -- even imperative -- in the backdrop of BSP chief Mayawati’s wily Muslim manoeuvre, in which she has fielded 97 Muslim candidates, the highest ever, as yet, by any political party in Uttar Pradesh. 
 
 Akhilesh has, at many public appearances recently, said that the SP will benefit from an alliance, and that such a combine would bring them more than 300 seats. Congress leaders, though, initially hesitant to comment on the possibility of an alliance have also, since, admitted that “secular parties are under pressure” and must come together to defeat a common, communal enemy: the BJP. Signalling that a formal announcement is around the corner, Congress’s chief ministerial face, former Delhi CM Sheila Dikshit said she was willing to make way for Akhilesh if the SP and Congress entered into an alliance. 
 
 January 9 is also the date given to the Samajwadi Party warring factions to submit their affdavits of support to the  . Party insiders said that it is likely that there will be more clarity on the ongoing family feud before January 9. Sources told TOI there have been several attempts to broker peace between chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav.
 
 Pollsters see the SP-Congress alliance as a winning combine in the   because of its ability to cement the minority vote, and to garner a section of upper caste votes that have traditionally sided with the Congress. In UP, where a winning party typically needs nothing more than 30% of the total votes polled to form a government, both the Congress and SP -- even with their comparatively poor poll performances of 7.53% and 22.35% respectively, in 2014   elections -- are project a successful alliance. 
 
