MUMBAI: Over a week after a 27-year-old man allegedly flashed a teenaged collegian and her friends at  , police tracked him down through his past criminal records and arrested him from   on Tuesday evening.

 Police claimed  , a school dropout who is employed as a driver, was a   who had been released from jail a few months ago in a similar case lodged at Govandi police station. 
 
 “The accused has at least 10 molestation cases registered against him at D N Nagar, Dindoshi, Goregaon, Govandi, Kandivli, Parksite, Powai and Vikhroli police stations since 2011,” said DCP (zone X) Navinchandra Reddy. “In the Powai case, we retrieved the CCTV footage from cameras in front of Eternia building near Galleria mall in Hiranandani Gardens and got an image of the  .” A police team browsed through the criminal records and identified Deodhare, who had been arrested a few months ago from Govandi. 
 
 “We got his address from the criminal data and the RTO. We reached his Malad residence at Jivdayani Chawl in Chincholi Bundar on Tuesday and got information that he was in Govandi. We then arrested him,” said a Powai police officer. He was produced before Andheri metropolitan magistrate’s court, which sent him to police custody till July 21. 
 
 Reddy said, “Besides charging him with stalking and insulting the modesty of a woman under the Indian Penal Code, we have also booked him under the IT Act as we found lewd messages and obscene pictures on his mobile phone.” Deodhare’s phone has been se-nt to the forensic lab to retrieve the obscene messages and images he sent to several women. 
 
 On July 13, around 11.45am, the complainant and her friends were returning home from their Powai college when they noticed Deodhare following them on his bike. 
 
 In her complaint, the teenager said he flashed them and made obscene gestures, but they ignored him and walked ahead. But when he again flashed them, they raised an alarm and he sped away. She then called the police control room and two patrolling constables reached the spot. The complainant claimed the policemen ‘shooed’ them away. But later, following media pressure, a female police officer went to the teenager’s house and took her complaint. Departmental inquiry has been initiated against the two cops. 
 
 
