BATHINDA/AMRITSAR/LUDHIANA: Anger spilled onto the streets of Punjab on Friday, a day before the state was set to vote for the 2017 assembly elections. Parties of all hues accused each other of trying to kill their supporters, distributing cash to voters and breaking the model code of conduct, in an ominous sign that voting on Saturday could well be a violent and highly-charged affair. 

 In Ludhiana, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) & AAP candidate Simarjit Singh Bains alleged that he was attacked by supporters of Hira Singh Gabria, SAD candidate from Ludhiana South constituency, outside the latter's office. Gabria too accused Bains of attacking and firing at his men.
 
 Serious allegations came from Punjab's political heartland of Bathinda with AAP's youth coordinator Robin Brar being shot at and injured, allegedly by a   activist in Rampura Phool town.
 
 Brar, who was admitted to a local medical college with a bullet wound to his thigh, had accused Akali activists of distributing cash and started chasing them with other AAP workers. They entered the house of Akali candidate Sikandar Singh Maluka's close associate Parveen Kansil where the gun was fired. Akalis, on the other hand, accused AAP workers of entering Kansil's house to kill him.
 
 Rampura Phool DSP Karanvir Singh said they have registered an attempt to murder case against Gurpreet Singh of SAD while a trespassing case has been registered against AAP workers. “Three shots were fired and one hit Brar. We believe that an AAP worker also had a firearm.” Some 75km away , sleepy Hakkuwala village in Lambi saw high drama when Congress supporters intercepted a white SUV driven by Akali Dal supporters and accused them of distributing cash among voters. “(Local Akali leader) Tejinder Middukhera's brother Gurbakhshish Singh and nephew Gurlal Singh escaped with a bag from the car,“ alleged local Congress activist Gurdeep Singh. “A flying squad searched the vehicle but found nothing,” said Lambi returning officer Anmol Singh Dhaliwal.
 
 After a couple of hours Captain Amarinder Singh with his son Raninder and others reached the village. Both AAP and SAD have complained to the EC against Amarinder for violating the model code of conduct by moving in the area with large number of supporters. Congress and AAP on the other hand have accused SAD of distributing cash. Middukhera told TOI that his brother and nephew had gone to Hakuwala to condole the death of a veteran Akali activist. “They had no money with them,” he said. “Congress workers led by Captain Amarinder Singh and his son indulged in ‘gundagardi'. We are approaching the Election Commission to cancel Amarinder's candidature.”
 
 In Khanna near Ludhiana, BSP candidate Shashi Vardhan complained to the police that he was attacked by Congress leaders after he tried to stop the auto-rickshaw being used for campaigning. BSP leader Gurcharan Singh Channi said the vehicle was seized by the police after they lodged a complaint. “Frustrated by the incident, supporters of Congress candidate Gurkirat Singh Kotli attacked our candidate,” Channi said.
 
 Khanna senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh said he has received the complaint from the candidate and it was being investigated.Congress leaders have refuted the allegations. Bains told TOI, “On my way back from a meeting, I saw the road outside Gabaria's office blocked by two-wheelers. As our vehicles slowed down, Gabria's supporters started pelting our cars with stones, and then opened fire. My guard then fired in the air and the driver sped off.”
 
 He also alleged that he was getting threatening calls from Gabira's supporters after the attack. In Tarn Taran, two former sarpanches of Sadar Patti village clashed, allegedly over cash being distributed. In the scuffle, Congress supporter Harjinder Singh received injuries to his hand with a sharp-edged weapon allegedly wielded by Sukhdev Singh. While Harjinder has been hospitalized, Sukhdev and others are on the run.
 
