BHOPAL: Handing a shock to students less than two weeks before the   start, the   (MPBSE) on Sunday said it will allow only five minutes for them to read the question paper, not 15 minutes as was the norm, because this period was being “misused by some examinees”.

 On the other hand, examinees will get 20 minutes to fill in their details in the answerscripts, making students wonder if the board has its time management priorities clear. 
 
 Sources say the question reading time was drastically cut short because some examinees used the window (often literally) to pass the questions outside and cheat the test. “But doesn’t it mean that the board is penalising students for its own inefficiency in tackling cheats,” asked the parent of an examinee.
 
 MPBSE started the practice of granting 15 minutes to read the question paper three years ago. But after a “review” this year, it decided to cut down on this generosity. “We want to ensure that the examination is conducted in a fair manner across Madhya Pradesh. It has been noticed that some students misused the additional time granted to them prior to beginning of the paper. Hence, we have reduced it by 10 minutes,” board chairman   told TOI.
 
 Asked whether it would affect students, he said five minutes “were enough to read the paper and organize oneself to attempt the questions”. Answersheets would be given 20 minutes prior to exam time so that students get ample time to fill details, he assured. “How does it compensate for the time we are losing,” wondered a student.
 
 Students and parents have opposed the move, saying examinees need the full 15 minutes to study the question paper and calm their nerves. Speaking to TOI, Class XII student Amit Jain said that it was highly disappointing to learn about the reduced time. “I agree, cheats might be using this time for out-of-the-hall solutions, but what about those who really need the 15 minutes? It will have bad impact on bright students,” Jain said.
 
 Another student, Fiaza Khan of Class X, said: “I don’t know if the reduced time will have any impact on cheats, but I must say it’s not in a good taste for meritorious students.” Malvika Khare of Class XII said the board’s decision has no logic. “Officials could have found other ways to curb cheating. Why reduce our precious 15 minutes?” she said.
 
 Opposing the move, general secretary of MP Parents’ Association, Prabodh Pandya, pointed out that the government can’t blame students for everything. “It is very unfortunate that the government is shifting the blame on students for its own inefficiency in curbing cheating. Five minutes is very little time to prepare the mind,” he said.
 
 Some 18.96 lakh students will be appearing in the board exams from March, 1. The government has set up 252 flying squads to keep a watch on all 3,851 centres. Vigilance committees, headed by district collectors, will oversee the operations and the administration may even clamp Section 144 CrPC at troublesome centres. The question papers and other confidential documents will be sealed and kept at police stations. They will be handed over to the examination superintendent in the presence of a collector’s representative. Students will have to be seated in the hall 30 minutes before exam time. 
 
