NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate on Monday attached assets worth around Rs 12 crore in connection with the '108 Ambulance Service' scam in   in which the CBI registered an FIR against former chief minister Ashok Ghelot in 2015. 

  Apart from Gehlot, the other accused in the case are  , son of former finance minister  , and Congress member  . The two were directors in Ziqitza Healthcare Ltd, the firm which was awarded the contract to run the ambulance service. 
 
  Pilot and Karti Chidambaram have since claimed that they resigned as directors from Ziqitza Healthcare in 2010. The ED claimed Ziqitza Healthcare made illegal gains of Rs 23 crore from the contract. 
 
  The agency attached movable and immovable properties worth Rs 11.58 crore of Ziqitza Healthcare and its directors Sweta Mangal and Ravi Krishna. The two were directors in the company along with Pilot and Karti Chidambaram when it bagged the contract. 
 
  The ED's property attachment order has also been served to Karti  , mentioned in the order as independent director of Ziqitiza Healthcare headquartered in Dadar (West), Mumbai. 
 
  The ED registered a money laundering case against all the accused mentioned in the CBI FIR of August 2015. Gehlot, the then CM, and Daru Miya, the then state health minister, were accused of criminal conspiracy and cheating along with Pilot, Karti Chidambaram, Krishna and Mangal. 
 
  Ziqitza has been accused of submitting exaggerated invoices, making claims on behalf of non-operated vehicles and fake multiple trips. The company has also been accused of generation of fictitious reports to claim operation of the ambulance service. "Due to these irregularities committed during execution of '108 Ambulance Service' in Rajasthan, Ziqitza Healthcare Ltd made illegal gains to the tune of Rs 23 crore," the ED said in its investigation report. The illegal gains acquired by Ziqitza and its directors were the proceeds of crime, the agency noted. Its investigation further found that funds were laundered through the accounts of the company in acquiring movable and immovable assets. 
 
 
