KOLKATA: Arindam Pal, the manager of a confectionery chain in Jodhpur Park was surprised when he found a posse of policemen next to his shop on Thursday. About 10 minutes later, the police were asking him if there was a   camera at his shop as they wanted to check the footage to identify some dacoits who had allegedly decamped with gold worth Rs 20 lakh. 

 A day later, when he met TOI, Pal was still incredulous. His neighbour  , a graphic designer, who lives in a multi-storeyed building claimed he came to know of the incident only from the newspapers after he returned late from a trip outside the city.
 
 At 2.30pm, exactly 24 hours after the armed   at Chandrani Jewellers, most of Jodhpur Park locals expressed surprise at the precision with which it was executed. “The kepmari at the UBI bank opposite this jewellery store did not involve weapons. To think that someone can walk away with gold worth Rs 20 lakh after holding shopkeepers hostage is surprising given the area has never witnessed another incident like this,” said Mukherjee.
 
 The owners of four shops and a petrol pump interviewed by TOI claimed they were all inside their establishments because of the rain and had no idea what was going on inside the jewellery store. “I had no clue until I saw cops swarming the area. This is the second incident this year and we are planning to sit down with local police to discuss how we can boost security here,” said  , owner of a food joint near the jewellery store. 
 
 Police said they have collected CCTV footage — from a fitness centre and an optical store located next to Chandrani Jewellers — to help with the probe.
 
 Locals said that with Durga Puja round the corner, the police need to prove that this was only a one-off incident. Many residents have already started doing whatever little they can to keep themselves safe. “We are ensuring that the main gate remains locked every time someone is entering or leaving the complex. While hiring a security guard might be too costly, we will ask all residents to come up with their own ways to stay safe,” said Oindrilla Dutta, a resident of 95 Pally.
 
 Ratan Dey, MMiC (roads) and the local councillor, said that many locals contacted him on Friday asking him to speak to the police about the incident. “Yes, if there is such an incident in broad daylight, there will always be surprise mixed with apprehension. But I am in touch with Lake police and we will work together to solve the issues” Dey said.
 
