LUCKNOW: A   between   and Varanasi is set to boost spiritual tourism in UP and Bihar. Not only will the flight make the journey from PM Modi’s constituency to the Sri Lankan capital cheaper by 40%, it will also reduce travel time to just about five hours.

 Industry stakeholders say that tourism activity in destinations of the Buddhist circuit will be fuelled significantly as over 70% of Sri Lankans follow Buddhism. For them, a visit to   and Bodh Gaya is as important as Haj to Muslims across the world.
 
 “This is going to be a win-win situation for pilgrims who will have to pay at least 40% less than before,” said Prateek Hira, state president,   in India. 
 
 Various tours and travel websites suggest that a pilgrim from Colombo to UP and Bihar has to spend at least Rs 25,000 on airfare per person if bookings are made four weeks in advance. “A 40% dip in cost (which saves Rs 10,000) is jaw-dropping,” Hira added.
 
 The time saved will translate into longer stays in India which can mean a higher chance to explore places beyond Sarnath. Patna-based travel and tourism consultant UN Mishra shared that operators and hoteliers in Bodh Gaya look forward to better business.
 
 “Bodh Gaya is just a five-and-a-half-hour drive from Varanasi. The move will eventually turn Varanasi-Bodh Gaya into a twin-city tour for pilgrims,” he said. Mishra has already been contacted by local tour operators to design packages to make the most of the change. Those who just want to visit Sarnath and Bodh Gaya can come and go in two days while those looking for a leisurely stay can pick an eight-night trip to Varanasi, Bodh Gaya, Rajgiri, Vaishali, Kushinagar, Lumbini, Kapilvastu, Sravasti and Varanasi. 
 
 Former director of Institute of Tourism Management Prof Manoj Dixit said that UP was best suited for religious and spiritual tourism. “UP is the birthplace of three lords – Rama, Krishna and Buddha. People come here either to fulfil their religious duties or in quest of peace. The perception is our potential,” he explained adding, “intelligent moves like this will help in boosting tourism economy.” 
 
 Tourism department statistics also hint towards higher footfall. Over 55% of foreign tourists who visit Varanasi go to Sarnath and Kushinagar. Estimates from Buddhist organisation Bhikku Sangh in Kushinagar show that one-third of the foreign tourists are from Sri Lanka.
 
 “Sri Lankans come and pray in these places. But authorities must realize that air connectivity alone won’t help. Investments must be made in road networks and other infrastructure,” remarked Tarit Roy, chief of Yama Café in Kushinagar, a reliable resource centre for foreign tourists. Minister for tourism Rita Bahuguna Joshi said a number of plans were in the pipeline.
 
 “For Shravasti, for example, proposals like sound and light show, a Buddha theme park, tourist facility centre and beautification of world peace bell have been cleared by the Union tourism ministry. Similar proposals have been approved for Kapilavastu as well,” she said.
 
