AURANGABAD: The saffaron allies turned foesShiv Sena and BJPare putting their best foot front to win as much seats as possible in the upcoming zilla parishad (ZP) elections. The   that has only 6 seats in the current   was trying to double its tally while the Sena that represented 18 seats out of 62, is making efforts to retain its hold while trying to outsmart the BJP in its strongholds of Gangapur, Paithan, Phulambri and Sillod. 

 The ZP elections in the district are scheduled on February 16. Aurangabad was once considered a   stronghold but the BJP has made a dent in its bastion. Though Sena’s main focus is Mumbai, the party has always had a strong presence in the  , including Aurangabad. However, in 2014 assembly elections, BJP made a huge inroads all across India. 
 
 Interestingly, the BJP had contested 17 ZP seats out of 62 in Aurangabad district five years ago and managed to win only six seats. The Sena had won 18 seats. “This time around, our strength has increased manifold, we have two MLAs in the district. In addition to that people have elected two of our workers as Paithan and Gangapur municipal council presidents, while Sena nominees have failed to register victories in council presidents polls,” said  , the state BJP spokesperson.
 
 Boralkar said “Elections apart, the people in general have accepted the BJP. We wanted the Shiv Sena to share at least half of the 62 seats, but they insisted that we be content with the 17 to 18 seats. Due to which the alliance in the district for the ZP polls fell apart,” he said adding that this time around we are hopeful of winning more seats than the Sena. “We have fielded a Muslim candidate for a ZP seat in the district. The party has fielded its candidate in all the zilla parishad and panchayat samiti seats,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, the Sena is making all-out efforts to retain its seats and win more than what it had done five years ago. “We have a strong base at these places. The BJP has forgotten that Aurangabad district is a strong Sena citadel. We are set to win majority of the seats in the ZP and pancyayat samiti polls,” said a senior Sena leader. The party was much ahead of the BJP and other parties in terms of campaigning and its a matter of few days before the BJP realises its place in the district,” he added.
 
