PUNE: The voting percentage, as determined for the civic polls, may not be presenting the true picture, experts from the   stated in a postpoll analysis.
“Duplication of names or names of deceased or those who have migrated to other cities still figure in voters' list here.This puts a huge question mark on the final polling figures,“ project director Manasi Phadke from the institute said. Phadke was assigned with the electoral analysis by the  .
 
 “Same person's name appearing for voting in different wards shows that the electoral roll is not pure (free of errors) and this is a cause of huge concern in any election. It holds true for all the corporations that went in for elections on February 21. These (errors) need to be rectified and for this to happen a dedicated team of officials need to be put in place to waork around the year and not just the election season. Only then will we be able to a true picture of the polling percentage.“
 
 Phadke added. The election day on Tuesday turned out to be a disappointment for the election machinery in Pune. Despite aggressive campaigns exhorting people to vote, election to   (PMC) registered only a 55.5% voter turnout.Though PMC turned out to be a huge dampener, its neighbour   registered a record 65% voter turnout, which was highest among all ten corporations in the state that went for polling on Tuesday .
 
 The expert added the lack of interest of urban population is another factor that needs to be looked into. “If the number of people from the urban areas who gave voting a miss are exact, then it would require a whole new analysis,“ they added.
 
 There are a total of 26 lakh voters in the city, of these only 14.3 lakh exercised their right to vote on Tuesday for the PMC polls. The people who went out to vote complained about duplication of their names and confusion which prevailed thereafter. “I was registered at two places and even after putting up a request to the administration to delete one of the names, it continued to appear at two places,“ Payal Rohtagi said while showing two voter slips she had re ceived. Besides, there were people who have stayed in the city for over a decade now, but could not find their names in the voters' list.
 
 Pushpa Waghmode, a maid who had voted for all the elections till now, was disappointed after not being able to exercise her right on Tuesday since she could not find her name in the electoral roll. “I have my voter ID card, but still I was not allowed to vote. They (officials) told me that my name was missing from the list,“ Waghmode said.
 
 The analysis by the experts also centred around perception of voters in Pune, Mumbai, Nashik, Amravati, Nagpur and select ZPs. The analysis was done on 13,000 voters, about on the issues they faced during the elections.
 
 “We have an overall analysis where it has been found that the voters found the process before polling a troublesome affair. This included finding names in the list and finding the right booths. People complained of some confusion due to the multi-member system for the wards,“ Phadke said.
 
 Also, the analysis found that the process was not friendly for the differently-abled.
 
