CHENNAI: The much-hyped   against sand mining baron J   and his associates might peter out, as the central agency is unable to net any public servant or bank official as an accused so far.

 Citing this as prime reason, a special court for   cases here ordered the release of sand mining baron Sekhar Reddy and his two associates -- V Srinivasulu and Prem Kumar -- on conditional bail, on Friday.
 
 Special judge for CBI cases, K Venkataswamy, granted them bail, 87 says after their arrest.
 
 An accused is eligible to be released on ‘statutory/compulsory’ bail, if an investigating agency is unable to complete probe and file chargesheet within a stipulated period. The normal statutory period available to agencies to file chargesheet is 60 days. Thanks to invocation of Section 409 IPC (breach of trust involving a public servant or a banket), the CBI had 90 days to complete it in this case.
 
 Pointing out that the CBI could not lay a chargesheet despite the lapse of 87 days, the special judge said that in the remaining three days the agency could not identify a public servant or a banket, complete investigation and file chargesheet.
 
 The charge against the trio was that they deposited or exchanged demonetised currencies worth several crores of rupees illegally with the connivance of ‘unidentified’ bank officials. The CBI had seized Rs 140crore, including Rs34 crore in new currency, besides more than 170kg   from places owned by Reddy and his associates.
 
 However, the special judge on Friday said the CBI was unable to identify even a single bank official in connection with the alleged fraud, and added that it would leave the court to believe the defence argument that the seized money came from legitimate business income/transactions. In this regard, he accepted the defence narrative that just as trades like textile and Tasmac, the accused too had a business which generated huge sums of money on daily basis.
 
 If at all an agency which needs to be concerned with the income or seized money, it should be only income tax department and not CBI, the court said.
 
 The judge then directed the three accused to surrender their passports to CBI and asked them not to travel outside India without permission. They shall appear before the CBI personnel at 10.30am daily for inquiry until further orders. They shall execute a personal bond for Rs5 lakh each, and furnish two sureties each for equal sum.
 
