CHENNAI: They overcome challenges every day. And what gives them the strength to do it with a smile is their passion for art. Differently abled artists R Udhayakumar, K Narasimhalu, Suvedha Ganesh and Uttam Kumar Bhardwaj will showcase their work at a show that will be inaugurated on September 27.

 The charity   and sale, ‘Never Say Die Art & Artists’, is being organised by Artworld Sarla’s Art Centre and  . 
 
 “I started this foundation along with my wife   in April 2014,” says V S Ramana, founder-trustee HeART BEAT Foundation, adding that the seeds of it were sown way back in November 2012, when they organised a show, the proceeds of which went to Little Drops, a Chennai-based NGO.
 
 “Amongst people with disability, there are many who are very artistic and creative and have a passion of art,” says Ramana, adding that he was inspired to organise such art shows after he saw one in Delhi. 
 
 “The works were up for sale and I saw that the parents of the differently abled children were moved to tears when they saw people buying the paintings,” says Ramana, adding that art shows like these serve a dual purpose. “The people are able to showcase their work and also get money needed for treatment etc.”
 
 This is the eighth such art show that the foundation is holding, having earlier conducted six shows in Chennai, one in Puducherry and one in Delhi. 
 
 “Udhayakumar has spino-muscular atrophy and can only move the right thumb and index finger of his right hand. He uses it to paint every day for it is therapy for him,” says Ramana.
 
 Born with cerebral palsy, Narasimhalu does painting as well as tapestry embroidery with his feet, while Suvedha, who is speech and hearing impaired, does acrylic on canvas. While the other artists are from Chennai, Bhardwaj, who has cerebral palsy, is from Udhampur, J&K. He does large format oil on canvas with his left foot, spreading the canvas on the floor.
 
 “All of them are fighters, which is why we have titled the show ‘Never Say Die Art and Artists’. All the money from the proceeds will go to the artists, and buyers will get an 80 G donor receipt,” says Ramana.
 
 The show will be inaugurated at 5:30pm on September 27. It will be held at Artworld from September 28 to 30 and October 3 to 5.
 
 
