PANAJI: Having travelled in trains across Europe, Adarsh   was sceptical of undertaking a nine-hour rail journey from Mumbai to Goa. His assumptions gained strength when the scheduled departure from the CST got delayed by 40 minutes. However, when the wheels of   rolled, the perception changed for the better, as India’s first premium superfast express finished the journey 15 minutes before its scheduled arrival in Goa. 

 “I have travelled in trains in England and other European countries as well. It was the same experience with Tejas. The journey was completed in eight and a half hours and the train is equipped with LED screens where one can watch movies. The food was tasty and of good quality and the staff was quick to respond. It is a better option than taking a flight,” he said. 
 
 Adarsh’s opinion was shared by other passengers also, who were particularly impressed with features such as WiFi, on board availability of movies and music and a GPS-based passenger information display system.   started off at 4pm on Monday evening and completed the 552 kilometres journey at 12:20am.
 
 “I have booked my return journey to Mumbai with this train only. The experience was on a par what one gets in airlines. There were delays in the start but the train covered the distance easily and the behavior of the staff was polite and understanding,” Hitesh Kothari, who came with his family, said.
 
 Declared as the ‘aeroplane moving on the ground’ by railway officials, Tejas has been morphed into one by introducing features like food trolleys rather than the usual chore of manually handing out food packages. Designed at the   coach factory, the train has automatic doors which won’t open if the speed crosses 15km/h. Bio-vacuum toilets have been installed in all the 20 coaches of the train. The inter-car gangways have been sealed to ward of any dust coming in. 
 
 A fire suppression system, smoke detection and fire detection systems are also installed at various parts of the train. 
 
 Talking about its maiden run, the railway officials who were on board the train, along with a team of engineers from Kapurthala, said the train touched 130km/h. 
 
 “There were no technical problems during the journey. There are many bridges and tunnels in the way and also there is single line of tracks at many stretches. Because of this, the speed was kept in control. During the monsoon, the average speed would remain between 75-80km/h,” a railway official said, adding that the fire alarms went off once just before Ratnagiri probably due to the train’s air conditioning system inhaling diesel smoke in a tunnel.
 
 The train has received wide positive reception and that has been mirrored by the bookings it has received. Latest data supplied by the railways showed that all 990 seats were booked on Monday. There is a waiting list for the executive class till May 27.
 
