GURGAON: A  , a railway station and an   — all under one roof that seeks to inspire innovation and promote perseverance while ensuring a fun-filled working atmosphere.

 Spread over 140,000 sqft over two floors — 18th and 19th — of DLF Epitome building in Cyber City, the head office of   reflects a city with a mix of varied themes, elements and ideas. The merged entity, with around 1,800 employees, moved into the new office in April.
 
 If the reception area has been done up like an airport, the corridor leading to the cafeteria on the 19th floor reflects a quaint little street dotted with turquoise doors and windows and marked by graffiti walls. The cafeteria, on the other hand, resembles roadside food joints bustling with people.
 
 At the entrance, one of the walls has been decked up with colourful collages — each having a central theme like food, people or places. Besides, a large LED screen, throwing up live feed on bookings made on the company website, is hard to miss.
 
 “The whole office has been done up in way that reflects different aspects of a city. For example, the corridor next to the cafeteria looks like an urban street with a countryside feel,” said Ramya Iyer of Via Designs, which has designed the new office to suit the brand image of the travel company.
 
 “Most offices, nowadays, are designed based on a neighbourhood concept, where every work hub is followed by a break-out area. However, at MMT, we have done the fun zones differently,” Iyer added.
 
 While one of the break-out areas has been built as a basketball court with low flooring and staircase, another looks like an indoor park. Also, there is a small railway station inside the office with cemented pavements and a tea stall, Majnu Ka Tila.
 
 The meeting rooms are vibrant, well-lit and made of glass walls. Each corner gives out a different vibe with molecular lights, which seem to be straight out of a chemistry lab, adding zing to the atmosphere.
 
 “With a break-out area looking like a corner in a pub and small airplanes sitting on workstations, I guess the word that describes the office best is ‘eclectic’,” said Ravi Prakash Tyagi, VP, administration, Go-MMT.
 
 “As an organisation, we are aggressive… things move at an extremely fast pace here. Hence, most of the office has been designed in a way that can drive work and allow breaks in between work,” said Tyagi.
 
 Deep Kalra, the CEO of Go-MMT, sits on the 19th floor, along with other business heads. The bosses’ cabins are lined up on one side of the office, just ahead of the ‘wall of fame’. There is a specially designed conference room, equipped with all the latest technologies and a small kitchenette, only for the bosses.
 
 The 18th floor, slightly smaller in size, has a huge work hub, a small break-out area and multiple training rooms. “While the 19th floor is a city, the 18th floor is based on a safari theme with birds on the roof and animals painted on the walls,” said Tyagi.
 
