Ahmedabad: Tarak Mehta was 87 but never missed the Hindi and Gujarati films he liked. He went to watch them in his wheelchair with along four people. He even caught the latest shows in the middle of the night, sometimes just out of habit when he would be writing into the night. A fan of Jyotindra Dave, Charlie Chaplin and P G Wodehouse, there was never a dull moment for those around him, his relatives said.

 Prabhakar Shukla, Mehta’s nephew, told TOI that while Mehta was not well for the last few months, he had stopped taking solid food for the past week. “On Wednesday, he suffered a bout of asthma after which he passed away. His body may have been weak but his will was strong. He made it a point to move about in his wheelchair in the evenings and chat with the fellow residents of the apartment block,” he said.
 
 As his long-term associates and well-wishers poured in to his residence near  , reminiscing of how Mehta touched thousands of lives through his art and writing.
 
 Vinod Bhatt, a fellow humourist, said Mehta can’t die as he will live on through his writings. “I feel like humour has left us. We met two years ago on his birthday and spent hours together. There was not even an ounce of acrimony towards anyone and he encouraged budding humourists,” said Bhatt.
 
 Mehta’s body was handed over to   on Wednesday as his last rites will be performed after his daughter and son-in-law arrive from the US on Thursday or Friday. Noted TV personalities from Mumbai are also expected to fly down on Thursday. On Wednesday, Union minister Parshottam Rupala and city mayor   were among those who visited Mehta’s Ambawadi home.
 
 Asit Modi, creator of the TV show “Tarak Mehta ka Ooltah Chashmah” told TOI that he had been apprehensive about whether Mehta would approve of the changes he has made in his adaptation.
 
 “He gave his blessings and became associated with the process. One of the biggest compliments he gave us was when he said he now gets confused about the world he had written and the world being shown in the serial. He was a father figure to us all and his departure has left a void,” said Modi.
 
