TRICHY: A city-based college student has triumphed in a   after reciting all the 1,330 couplets in a record 53 minutes. She stood first in a competition conducted by a private trust at Coimbatore on Sunday which was attended by over 13,000 school and college students from across the state. 

 While clear pronunciation of Tamil words is the key to win the competition, the time taken to recite Thirukkural - the classic   comprising 1,330 couplets - was another criteria to assess the participants. 
 
 Born in a peasant family in  , R Sathya, 17, a first year student of BSc Physics at  , came out trumps by not making a mistake while reciting all the 1,330 couplets in 53 minutes and 32 seconds. Her nearest contender could do it in 58 minutes. But what made her stand apart was the error-free recitation.
 
 It was her interest in Tamil language which prompted her to develop interest towards memorising Thirukkural. "I could do it with ease," Sathya told TOI while recalling that when she was reciting 522nd couplet, a dignitary from the audience offered a cash reward of Rs 8,000. He was impressed by the way she delivered the classic with excellent pronunciation. 
 
 She crediting her achievement to 'Tamilamma' (Tamil language teacher Vijayalakshmi) who identified her interest when she recited 500 Thirukkural verses to her while studying in 11th standard. While studying at Keelaveliyur government higher secondary school near Uyyakondan Thirumalai, she used to attend weekly Thirukkural classes along with a few of her classmates.
 
 Though she has attended several Thirukkural recitation competitions in Trichy, Sathya says she was initially hesitant to appear for the competitions as she had no exposure on stage. However, she gained confidence after winning competitions. Aspiring to join civil service, she said she could improve her learning ability once she started reading Thirukkural. "Every problem that we face in our daily life has a solution in its couplets," says she. 
 
 "Memorising a whopping 1,330 couplets isn't a child's game, even every child cannot do so," says principal   adding that Sathya had excellent IQ level. While she has achieved this fete, we are now planning to get her into record books by improving the timing of her recitation," she said.
 
