Noted writer Perumal Murugan today released an unusual music video titled 'Chennai Poromboke Paadal' featuring   that highlights the   as an environmental crime scene. Shot in and around the Ennore creek, the campaign film conceived by city-based environmentalist   focuses on the encroachments by Kamarajar Port and the rampant flyash pollution by TANGEDCO. The video, which is directed by Rathindran Prasad is unique in many ways. The song, written by up-and-coming singer, songwriter  , was originally sung as a Tamil rock song and later rendered to Karnatik by RK Shriramkumar. 

 'It is the first time a Karnatik song has been sung in Madras Tamil, and the first one to deal with a contemporary local environmental issue,' said singer TM Krishna. 'The artistic appeal was only one factor that prompted me to be a part of this collaborative arts project. I felt compelled to respond to the horrendous things that were being done to the Ennore wetlands in the name of development.'
 
 'Poromboke is a public space, the property of the entire community. Not just in Ennore, in no placeelse should Poromboke spaces be encroached,' said Perumal Murugan. The devastation left by Chennai floods and the Vardah cyclone and the disaster to come in the form of heat waves and water scarcity are all a result of how society has abused its poromboke commons. 'At a time when Tamil culture is the subject of a national debate, it is worth remembering that protecting the Poromboke commons is also a revered Tamil tradition,' said Nityanand Jayaraman.
 
 'Poromboke is an old Tamil word meaning shared-use community resources like waterbodies,seashore and grazing land that are not assessed for tax purposes. Today, it has become a badword used to describe worthless people or places,' he said.
 
 'Art and artists have a major role in shaping society and its cultural values. That is why I took on this project to restore and reclaim the lost respect for Poromboke commons in general, and Ennore in particular,' said director   The video ends with a request to viewers to sign a petition to the National Green Tribunal asking it to take action against 'inept, corrupt and unaccountable regulators' like Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), State Coastal Zone Management Authority (SCZMA) and the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA).
 
 Click here for the link to the song
 
 
 
