LUCKNOW: Not just for the BJP,   is a matter of aastha (faith) for the entire country, said Union minister of state for commerce and industry (independent charge)  , Rajya Sabha member from Karnataka, who was in the city on Tuesday. Talking exclusively to TOI, she she made no bones about the temple, triple talaq or slaughterhouse issues. 

 When asked if after election, will BJP wait for court verdict or go for parliamentary Bill on the matter and eventually build the temple, she said, “After election, we will build Uttar Pradesh. Mentioning Ram temple in election manifesto only means we are committed to the cause and anybody will have to wait for court verdict.” 
 
 Citing Muslim dominated Indonesia, or Buddhist Thailand, Ramayan is part of national culture, she said, “If there is no Ram temple at his place of birth, where in the world will you build it? But whenever we talk about Ram temple in India, it is seen as an election issue.” 
 
 On the question of temple finding mention in the manifesto, she said she would like every party to commit itself to the cause. “Many organisations are for Parliamentary Bill on the issue and they are free to do so. But if someone thinks we have forgotten Ram, we have not,” said the minister. 
 
 Speaking about the triple talaq issue and the party taking opinion of Muslim women though Centre has already given an affidavit clearing its stand, Sitharaman said, “We are only saying we will consult. We are only taking the stakeholders’ input and if it is part of what the court is going to decide, we are going by the law of the land.” She skirted the issue of discussing the matter in other BJP-ruled states, saying, “I am saying this with regard to the manifesto, in context of UP. Wherever relevant, there will be consultation.”
 
 The minister denied categorically that by putting in its ban of slaughterhouses in its manifesto, saying that the law states proper procedure for meat export and there is total ban on beef export. “By beef, I mean cow meat. A bull or calf of cow. There is no ban on export of any other meat, even of buffalo. Meat export has to be only through authorised abattoirs or slaughterhouses and authorised by Agricultural Products Export Development Authority which is part of ministry of commerce. It is a state subject and it has to be certified which animal is being slaughtered. BJP manifesto says it will ensure illegal slaughterhouses are closed.”
 
 On her party’s manifesto mentioning even modern abattoirs, she said, “Illegal export through slaughterhouses should be stopped first. Eventually, we want to see whether they are legitimate or not. I can’t close them tomorrow as there is a process involved. 
 
