BENGALURU: The thick cover of clouds that hovered over Bengaluru may have masked the stars, but a galaxy of superstars, past and present, lit up Wednesday evening at the   and the BCCI annual awards function at a city hotel here.

 Former wicketkeeper-batsman  , whose sense of humour remains as sharp as his reflexes when on the field, in a short and enliven ing speech walked down memory lane about the times when the Indian cricket team tried to stretch a Test match to its full course of five days in order to earn a daily allowance of Rs 50 and spoke fondly about pulling MAK Pataudi's leg about  .
 
 The affable former cricketer, who turned 79 a few weeks ago, was witty and his short time on the stage, lasting less than 15 minutes, was a departure from the previous lectures.
 
 To skipper  , he said: “Kohli, you are a marvellous batsman and a man second to none.
 
 “I remember back in those days we used to get Rs 50 per day as match fee. So for five days it used to be Rs 250. Kohli, are you listening?“ Engineer, who played alongside Pataudi, re called a few incidents on and off field. “Once, all his teammates put a patch on their right eyes and tried to field,“ he said. “The results were absolutely disastrous.“ Engineer also spoke of a time when he dropped Pataudi on 95 during a first-class match and the Nawab went on to score a double century . “Sharmila (his wife) was cheering from the stands. She put me in my place that day ,“ he said exchanging smiles with the lady herself.
 
 
 
 
 Addressing the  , Engineer, who played 46 Test matches for the country , wished the CoA luck and said their job was cut out.
 
 “Vinod Rai,   and fellow administrators, you've certainly got your job cut out sir in the next four months. We wish you luck. We are all so passionate about Indian cricket. We are cricket lovers, we not only want but demand nothing but the best for Indian cricket,“ he said.
 
 Engineer, who said he hoped to get the CK Nayadu award during his life, suggested the setting up of a cricket board with former greats.
 
 “ A suggestion about having an elite cricket board, comprising a few great cricketers -Shastri, Kumble, Laxman, Srinath, Sachin, Vengarkar, Gavaskar -people you've got many to choose from, people who are completely transparent, who have no axe to grind, have total integrity , completely impartial. They are around,“ he said.
 
 On the suggestion of neutral curators for international matches, Engineer said: “Someone has proposed neutral curators (for Test matches). I (instead) suggest that the visiting captain should decide whether to bat or field.“
 
 
