BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister Naveen   in his current term is being seen as an exercise to counter BJP in 2019. Political analysts were surprised that despite the threat from the saffron party, the regional satrap did not give enough   and the   (KBK) region where BJP had made inroads in the recent panchayat elections. 

 Naveen's 21-member new team has only one cabinet minister (Niranjan Pujari, Sonepur district) from the 11 western Odisha districts, down from three earlier. If the western Odisha and eight KBK districts are taken together, the 15 districts have only two cabinet ministers, the other being Ramesh Majhi (Nabarangpur district), who got a promotion from minister of state status earlier.
 
 Naveen seems to have given no serious thought to regional balancing act either, which is evident from the fact that 18 of the 30 districts don't have any representation in the ministry, said a political analyst. The left-out districts include Malkangiri, Rayagada, Koraput, Balangir, Kalahandi, Nuapada in KBK besides, Sambalpur, Jharsuguda, Deogarh, Boudh and Sundargarh in western Odisha, tribal-dominated Mayurbhanj, Kandhamal, Gajapati apart from Angul, Kendrapada, Jajpur and Nayagarh.
 
 Six of the nine districts where the BJP formed zilla parishads (ZPs) in February go unrepresented. They are Kalahandi, Sambalpur, Balangir, Deogarh, Mayurbhanj and Gajapati. 
 
 "It was widely perceived that Naveen would try to consolidate the party's presence in western Odisha, but that did not happen. It will give the surging BJP an added advantage," said a BJD MLA from western Odisha.
 
 The CM dropped Puspendra Singh Deo from Kalahandi, which was swept by BJP in rural poll, but inducted no new face from there. In a last moment change, he did not take on board Bijay Naik from Mayurbhanj, whose name was already sent to Raj Bhawan, because he allegedly featured in a sting video negotiating bribes with a decoy industrialist for facilitating investment last year. The reason behind nobody getting berths from Jajpur and Nayagarh is that outgoing ministers from these districts, Pranab Prakash Das and Arun Sahoo respectively, prevailed upon Naveen not to give powers to anyone else on their home turfs, said the analyst.
 
 Leader of opposition Narasingha Mishra pointed out that 13 backward districts remain unrepresented and said, "This is an insult to the people's mandate."
 
 Unlike Naveen's past reshuffles in previous terms, signs of revolts have started showing up as regional party MLA Mangala Kisan from Rajgangpur in Sundargarh district openly resented no berth to his district. Supporters of Sambalpur MLA Raseswari Panigrahi staged a protest there.
 
