JAIPUR: Independent legislator   on Tuesday alleged in the assembly that, like the Uttar Pradesh police’s anti-Romeo squads, the Rajasthan police have begun harassing couples. Beniwal referred to a video going viral about a married couple that was roughed up allegedly by drunken policemen in Jodhpur on the night of March 22.

 Raising the issue under the ‘point of information’ rule, the legislator demanded action against the Jodhpur policemen. Home minister   assured action in the matter but suggested that the couple could be faking the charges.
 
 “The police report that I have tells a contradictory story. It says the couple was caught in a ‘suspicious condition’ at 1 am in the night and they indulged in ‘snatching’ with the policemen. Therefore, to ascertain the truth, I will send a senior police officer to probe the matter,” Kataria told the house.
 
 The home minister emphasised that if the Jodhpur police’s claims were found true, he would take action against the media that tried to sensationalise the matter.
 
 Outside the House, Beniwal told reporters, “The couple is married. How can the home minister say they were caught in a ‘suspicious condition’?” Beniwal added, “The home minister just repeats in House whatever his police officers tell him. When we try to reason, he raises his voice to scare us.”
 
 The legislator said the Jodhpur police have repeatedly failed to uphold the law. “First it failed to arrest those who set ablaze a woman trying to protect trees. Now we learn that it beat up the married couple,” said Beniwal.
 
 Gang-rape of minor
 
 BSP MLA Manoj Nyangli and Congress MLA   too used the ‘point of information’ rule to raise issues relating to gang-rape of a minor in Churu and the desecration of an idol at a temple in Toda-Bhim.
 
 Home minister Kataria replied that the Churu police were trying to arrest the accused for the gang-rape of an 11-year-old Dalit girl. He assured action in the temple burglary and desecration case too.
 
 Co-op loans for farmers
 
 Congress whip Govind Singh Dotasra moved an adjournment motion to demand that the deadline for repaying cooperative banks’ agriculture loans be shifted beyond March 31. Cooperatives minister Ajay Singh Kilak, however, ruled out shifting the deadline and reasoned that the farmers can easily get another loan of equal amount on April 1. Kilak said that the banks insisted on repaying the loan by March 31, so as to maintain their cash-ratio.
 
 Dotasra argued that the deadline should be shifted as the farmers were cash starved due to demonetisation, besides suffering crop damage due natural calamities.
 
 The cooperatives minister said, Rajasthan was among the frontrunners in providing agricultural loans to farmers and that the cooperative banks were charging the least interest in the state. “We will provide loans to 3 lakh farmers,” said Kilak.
 
 
