It may have been said many times before, but ever since the incidents of   came to light and put the spotlight on Bengaluru for all the wrong reasons, the collective voices have become stronger — the only way to ensure that such incidents are not repeated is to raise our children right. We may still be a patriarchal society, but it is high time we tell our sons that it is not OK to mistreat a woman — be it your sister, friend, mother or ayah at school. Film personalities, who are parents as well, share their views and experiences of bringing up their children in today’s world…

  
  
 
 
 Children today are very mature. My eight-year-old son had many questions when he saw the news about the molestation on TV. It is very important to tell children what’s happening around them. They should be taught to respect other kids, never raise a hand on women and to be respectful of ayahs at school. None of this happens in a day; you need to teach them a little every day. It is also very important for parents to not fight in front of their kids, because they grow up thinking that it’s OK to behave that way. A good atmosphere at home is vital. Although it is easier to talk to a girl, I try to be a good friend to my son. I always leave the door open to discussions.
 
  
  
 
 
 From my grandma, mother, wife and daughter — I come from a family of strong women. There are no curfews at home and no one is told how to dress. It has worked that way for generations, and I don’t see why that should not continue. Having said that, I have been telling my daughter that she should learn self-defense, but she would rather talk to people and make them understand right from wrong. It all boils down to how you make them feel. If you make girls confident about their abilities and intelligence, and to feel good about their bodies — just as you would with a boy — they won’t feel ashamed about dressing in a certain way or doing certain things. It’s liberating.
 
  
  
 
 
 I have always told my two sons to respect girls. While school education is important, the education that parents give their kids at home is equally important. Sons need to be taught to treat their sisters, cousins or female friends with equality. Of course, being a role model is important. Kids learn from their parents’ behaviour, so you need to watch how you treat women as well. Many decades ago, Gandhiji said that there will be freedom in India only when a woman can walk down a street safely at night, but unfortunately, that is not the case. And this is only because of the way we are bringing up our kids.
 
  
  
 
 
 I am forced to tell my daughter not to go out late or be out alone by herself, but I would like to give her the freedom to do what she wishes to. The world is bad, but you can’t overprotect your kids. All parents have a strong need to protect their daughters in particular, but the fact is that they are going to go out into the world, party and wear the clothes they like. I have been groped in the past, but I always turned around and slapped my assaulter. Unfortunately, since we are being overprotective, we are not letting our daughters be bold enough to do the same. It’s a Catch-22 situation. We have dug a pit for ourselves. 
 
