Ride through Lokmanya Nagar’s narrow lanes, towards the joggers park, and you’ll be met with by huge bamboo torsos and papier-mâché heads. All these wait to be assembled into what will soon be a towering 40 foot tall effigy of Ravan, the primary antagonist in the epic, Ramayana. This will be set aflame against Dussehra day’s setting sun.

 Given that the city has a countable number of places where one can witness   on Dussehra, the   could well and good be one of the oldest. “We’ve been celebrating Ravan Dahan consistently for the past 20 years,” says  , founder-president of Shivgarjana Pratishthan’s Pune Lokmanya Festival.
 
 What started being held in the Lokmanya Nagar neighbourhood, this celebration has travelled across locales of the old city; the Abasaheb Garware College campus and the riverbank being other venues in the past. But ever since permissions for the programme at the riverbed have been refused, there’s been a change in venue again. “This time, the celebrations will take place at the New English School grounds on Tilak Road,” says Ganesh, who adds that the programme witnesses a footfall of 50,000 or more, every year.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Work on the effigy has been on for the past 10 days. When we visited the place, artist Shekhar Magoloo and his team of artists were busy giving final touches to their artwork. Shekhar, who has been in the business of making effigies for over 25 years, has been making Ravan for Lokmanya Nagar’s festival for the past 18 years. “The effigy might take just 10 minutes to burn, but there’s a lot of effort that goes into making it. We start working on it a week in advance,” says Shekhar. Using metallic frames, bamboo, wood, straw, paper, the effigy will weigh about 200 kilos. “When we started 20 years ago, Ravan was just 10 foot tall. With time, it grew from 15, 20 and 30 feet, to the 40 foot tall effigy it is today,” says Ganesh.
 
 Interestingly, every year, the effigy also holds a placard of ‘problems’ or ‘issues’ that are contemporary. “It’s our way of saying that we’d like to do away with that particular evil. We’ve employed subjects like unemployment, terrorism and violence against women, in the past,” says Ganesh. Ask him what this time’s subject would be, and Ganesh gives us a witty reply, “It would be the names of Asaram Bapu and   for sure!”
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
