BHOPAL: School Management Committees (SMCs) in Madhya Pradesh have come a long way, but have never succeed in realising their purpose. One might think   school education department is doing some serious work by conducting SMC meetings, mandated under RTE act but the ground reality, reveals the bitter truth.

 On Saturday morning, a visit to government middle and primary schools revealed that SMCs are just mere eyewash and burden on teachers who are ‘fed up’ with the ‘unwanted’ exercise. “Government has given some teeth to SMCs, but has eventually failed to implement it properly in schools. Now it has become a mockery and a huge burden on teachers,” said  , who teaches at Chandra Shekhar Azad middle school in Bhopal.
 
 After conducting SMC sabha at her school, Devi notes down the names of SMC members who had turned up after a number of persuasive calls from teachers. Students in class are meanwhile busy talking to each other about the regular stuff. They don’t have anyone to teach, as their teacher has been tasked with other official work. Annoyed over the worsening quality of education, she said that SMCs are just a waste of time of students and teachers alike.
 
 “Why can’t a teacher teach in class instead of filling up registers? As you can see, I am not in class just because I have to maintain this register and this annoys me because I see my students suffer in front of my eyes,” she said. Another teacher said that it is a futile exercise which they have been doing since 2011.
 
 “It has not yielded any good result since past years because the members of SMCs belong to slum areas; they are hardly motivated and are uneducated too. We are fed up now, as we have to plead before them to come and participate in the meetings,” she adds.
 
 The Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009 however mandates formation of SMCs in all government schools, with 75% of its strength from among parents or guardians of children, school principals, elected local representatives, teachers, social workers and educationists.
 
 Although, the community members have far greater say in how a school should be run, but due to lack of qualified members like educationists, social workers, the SMCs in state schools have become a “mockery.”
 
 “The true purpose of SMCs is to bridge the gap that exists between the state, school and society by making parents take responsibility of education in schools, but this is hardlyhappening,” said a primary school teacher on condition of anonymity. He said the members of SMCs comprise of only parents and headmasters. The bad news is “parents do not come and headmasters are often out for training every month.”
 
 The teacher said that like most government policies, SMCs have largely failed to live up to their potential with the mandated monthly meetings either not taking place or becoming a sham exercise.
 
 “No doubt, the SMCs were organised in more than one lakh schools in state on Saturdays, but the true purpose has not been fulfilled,” said a headmaster of middle school wishing not to be named. He insisted that had SMCs been successful, dropout rate and enrolment in classes would have witnessed a drastic change.
 
 Besides, during the meeting the schoolchildren are made to sit on floor due to lack of benches and chairs. Many of them dodn’t know what exactly is going on. Many assume that ‘bal sabha’ is going on and many think that minister is about to visit their school for distribution of cheques for school uniforms.
 
 “I don’t know what is going on, teacher said we are holding bal sabha,” Khushi Sharma of Kasturba middle school said. “It is a function for mantraji, he will come to give us cheques for uniforms,” said  , another student of government model school.
 
 
