If the Trump administration’s   that was tabled in the House of Representatives this week becomes a law, there is going to be blood. No, we don’t mean to exaggerate, but there ‘IS’ going to be pain, not only for those herds of folks who nurse dollar dreams, but for all of us. Don’t believe us. Consider these scenarios that may not even have crossed your mind yet. Seriously!

 
 
 You think you can’t handle  , wait till the exodus happens from the US. You will have to not only grin and bear those accents, but the observations are going to blow your mind. “Oh mah gaahd! Why do people honk so much in India?” “Look there’s cattle in the middle of the road”. You can remind them that things aren’t so different from when, well, they grew up here for 25 years! Oh and don’t forget that you might need to recaliberate the vocabulary, because football isn’t football any more, it’s soccer!
 Just prepare to control the urge to roll your eyes every time they roll their ‘Rs’.
 
 
 
 What makes a love story sweeter? Tollywood has the answer — when the abbai returns from the US and falls in love with the palletooru ammayi, his oh-so-innocent maradalu. There will be no more Gauthams (  in Shankarabharanam), the NRI who returns to fall for a village belle who loves everything about the West. There will be no more Robin Hoods (  in Kick 2) who returns to Hyderabad to deliver justice in a fight against a land grabber. And of course, there will be no more reel or real life Subramanyam’s (  from Subramanyam for Sale), who move to the US to earn big bucks!
 So, ladies of T’town be prepared to wear those skimpy clothes and shimmy in the snow of Switzerland.
 
 
 
 We don’t know of Trump’s vision of making America great again, but we can vouch for the fact that New Jersey will be great again. With the current migrant population in this state, sometimes Indians speak to each other and remark, “Ee roju foreigner vachaadu”. Guys, no, just stop. Ahem, reality check here: You are the foreigners. 
 
 
 
 The matrimonial ads will have to perhaps do away with the US-based grooms all together. The day won’t be too far away when you will read the line: “H1B visa holders need not apply.” Let’s observe a moment of silence for those families of grooms, who carefully calculated the repayment of student loans, using dowry. 
 
 
 
 For most Telugu teens, who survive on 4-hours of sleep, lack of social life and an unnatural lust for text books, guides and question banks, there is only one, just one motivating factor — “US ki velli baaga sampadisthe, life set ayipothudi,” they say. Yes, the American dream is as real as it gets in this part of the country. Mothers tell their sons “US ki vellaka, mamalni marichipovu kada?” Sons tell their girlfriends, “America teskeltha ninnu!” And fathers tell their sons, “Foreign ammai toh matram tirigi ra vaddu.”
 But guys, not to worry, you just need to close those engineering books and just sit with a world map and brush up on some geography. There are so many more countries in the world other than America. 
 
 
 
 When those cousins or even friends are returning from the US, you know that you are going to be showered with gifts, errr, those meaningless tourist momentos and of course the us flag baseball hats bars and not to forget, Lady Liberty on everything — fridge magnets, keychains, you name it. Even your dog’s gonna miss this one. For this one, though, we genuinely shed a tear.
 
