NEW DELHI: In a first, a court on Wednesday   the   and   of a city-based school to two-months’ imprisonment, besides asking them to pay Rs 2.5 lakh each as compensation, for cruelty and causing mental   to a minor student by stopping her from entering the classroom.

 The sentencing, however, was suspended by additional chief metropolitan magistrate Ankur Jain for four weeks in case the accused wanted to appeal against the order. The court had earlier held that the act of not allowing the class III student to sit in the classroom amounted to “wilful neglect”. 
 
 Lawyer of the girl’s father Chandra Suman told TOI, “The court has sent director Kavita Chandra and principal Romi Chawla of the Dwarka-based OPG World School to two-month imprisonment.” The lawyer said that a plea by the accused seeking release on probation was also dismissed.
 
 “The act of not allowing the child to sit in the classroom amounts to willful   which caused unnecessary mental suffering to her, and the trauma that a child undergoes is immense — once the child goes to school and is not allowed to sit in the classroom,” the court had observed during conviction. 
 
 In his complaint, father of the student Dr N Raghuram alleged that his daughter was “ill-treated” and confined by the school management throughout school hours on April 24, 2012, in order to pressurise her guardians to withdraw her from the school. 
 
 The school authorities, on the other hand, said that the student was given a transfer certificate on April 23, on the request of her parents. However, instead of collecting the TC the girl was sent to school the next day. The child was apparently “not feeling comfortable” after coming to school and since she was an asthma patient she was sent to infirmary, the authorities said. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Raghuram said, “It is an excellent judgment. The sentencing sets a legal precedence on mental harassment. Our effort was to create a deterrent towards such activities by school management. A clear signal has been given that no nonsense will be tolerated.” 
 
