KOLKATA: Chief minister   on Saturday asked for a fresh investigation into the death of Sanjoy Roy, the Howarah accident victim who was rushed to a private hospital with critical injuries on February 16 and was finally shifted to SSKM before he died on Friday.

 Health secretary R S Shukla, in his report to the CM and chief secretary Basudeb Banerjee, made a strong mention of the ‘inflated bills’ and ‘inhuman behavior’ of the hospital authorities. The report was submitted after three   officials called on Shukla at Swastha Bhavan on Saturday with Roy’s case report and tried to impress on him that the hospital hadn’t asked for fixed deposits and property deeds as securities from the patient’s family before releasing Roy. They also informed the government of the hospital’s decision to refund the entire Rs 7.23 lakh bill amount. 
 
 “The hospital authorities could have been more humane in their approach. They held back the patient until the family paid the dues and that too after the chief minister asked the healthcare system to be more compassionate. They could have released the patient first,” the health secretary said. 
 
 Shukla added: “They have submitted documents that show the family paid Rs 7.93 lakh against the bill of 7.23 lakh. They have mortgaged their fixed deposit worth Rs 3.5 lakh. Unless there is a pressure from the hospital, they would not have done this. Moreover, the patient party had to pay Rs 20,000 within 20 minutes of his admission. It goes agaisnt the   order.”
 
 Shukla also gave a break up of the bills. “The treatment apart, the hospital has charged Rs 3.3 lakh for investigation, Rs 1.33 lakh for pharmacy and Rs 73,000 as room rent. Their defence on Saturday was not satisfactory and we have asked for more clinical evidence,” Shukla said. “It is very early to say anything but it seems that the hospital could have opted for a low cost treatment,” director of health services Biswaranjan Satpati said.
 
 The government, though, isn’t jumping to conclusions. The state health secretary thus stopped short of spelling out any punitive measures against the hospital. 
 
 Apollo COO Joy Bose said, “We told the patient’s family the treatment was expensive. When they decided to transfer him to SSKM, we transported him in our ambulance free of cost.” When asked about the waiving of bill, one of the representatives said, “We have promised not to charge anything and will get back to the family soon.”
 
