NEW DELHI: The   has decided to conduct   of areas under its jurisdiction for effective collection of  . The exercise is meant to visualise data from different   and study the characteristics of inhabitants. 

 The study will help the civic body ascertain how many people live in different blocks of various colonies, apartments and unauthorised colonies. “It (the exercise) is necessary to effectively plan waste collection and disposal. We want to use our manpower in the most effective way,” SDMC mayor Kamaljeet Sehrawat said. She said the corporation could streamline its efforts better if it had an exact idea of the number of hotels, hospitals, restaurants, residential areas and commercial centres where waste was generated. 
 
 The official position of the corporation is that it gets waste collected from doorsteps and dhalaos — some of the garbage is segregated, compressed and recycled, whereas what is left is dumped at landfills. The reality, however, was different, claimed residents. Vivek Tondon, joint secretary of Vasant Vihar RWA, said: “It is common to find garbage spilling out of the dhalao at the Vasant Vihar club. Despite repeated complaints, nothing has changed.” He added: “The situation at the E Block market in Vasant Vihar is quite the same.” 
 
 Other RWAs, too, complain of poor sanitation services. Residents in Badar-pur, Tughlakabad and Sangam Vihar have similar complaints. 
 
 Sehrawat said despite best efforts, sometimes sanitation services couldn’t meet expectations due to a variety of reasons. “After geo-mapping, we expect to improve the services provided to residents as it would help us deploy our manpower better. The areas that generate more garbage than others will see deployment of more manpower and vehicles,” she said.
 
 South corporation areas generate around 3,000 tonne of garbage daily and the civic body has around 20,000 sanitation workers on its rolls. Work is allocated to these workers on the basis of a rough estimate of the requirements of various areas. The task has been made more difficult by the mushrooming of residential societies and apartments. Also, the civic body is working on the basis of a population census that was conducted over six years ago.
 
 “The number of inhabitants in each apartment and society will be studied to find out how much waste is generated. A private agency will be hired for the purpose, for which a tender will be floated soon,” said mayor.
 
