Jodhpur: Both Congress and BJP are on counter mission in Jodhpur these days. While Congress had been running from pillar to post for making the one-day Jodhpur bandh a huge success, BJP left no stone unturned to call upon people to turn it into a flop show, terming this bandh was called to shield corrupts. 

 It may be recalled that former chief minister Ashok Gehlot had called upon the party leaders and workers to prepare for a one-day city bandh on January 24 to protest the move of the government and ACB against six persons, including the former vice-chancellor of JNV University B S Rajpurohit and ex-MLA Jugal Kabra for their alleged involvement in irregularities in teachers recruitment in 2012.
 
 While protesting this move, Gehlot had openly thrown challenge to the state government to either stop it terming nothing but a politics of vendetta, or face the same treatment, when Congress will be in power.
 
 Gehlot had also downplayed the irregularities terming it not intentional but procedural claiming that none of the accused extracted money out of this recruitment. To respect this call by Gehlot, Congress has been holding marathon meeting on different levels appealing the party men to make this bandh a huge success.
 
 Party leaders have also been striving hard to make the public meeting, to be held at Clock Tower market after the bandh, a historic success ensuring a huge turnout of people. On the other hand, BJP leaders and workers were out to turn this bandh futile. They have also been holding meetings with people, different organizations and associations explaining the purpose of this call.
 
 “By calling this bandh, Congress is protecting the corrupt ones and people should thwart this stand of Congress by giving clear signal that they are with those who are corruption combatants,” said a BJP leader.
 
 According to BJP leaders, this move is a testimony that the party is pro-corruption and has openly seeking support of people on action by ACB against corrupt academicians and politicians.
 
 
