Dharamshala: Panic struck the Tibetan community in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday after a charred body of a man was found in bushes near the residence of Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama in McLeodganj. Tibetans claimed it was an act of self-immolation by a member of the community in protest against the Chinese occupation of Tibet. Tibetan news portals and Facebook pages of activists also shared photos of the spot where the body was found.

 Local police officers said they could not confirm if it was self-immolation or murder without collecting more details. However, if it does turn out to be a case of self-immolation, then it will be the first such instance in Himachal Pradesh and the second such death in a week. On July 24, a Tibetan youth had died in a hospital in Delhi after he had set himself on fire in Varanasi.
 
 “Forensic teams will have to analyse the age and reason of death. Evidence has been collected from the spot,” said Ramesh Chajta, superintendent of police. Neither police officials nor local residents could identify the body till late evening.
 
 Tibetan settlement officer Dawa Rinchen said he had alerted the police after he came to know about the body lying in the bushes. “We suspect that it is a case of self-immolation as a Tibetan flag was found near the body,” he said. Also, the spot where the body was found is known as Lhagyal Ri and has religious significance among Tibetans. They gather there to invoke deities through an incense ceremony.
 
 Although the Dalai Lama has led a non-violent protest to free Tibet of Chinese rule, there have been numerous cases in Tibet of self-immolation since 2009. The Tibetan government in exile which has its headquarters in Dharamshala has confirmed that so far 148 people have set themselves on fire in Tibet. In India, there have been two self-immolation cases by Tibetans so far. The first one was in March 2012 in Delhi when Jamphel Yeshi (27) set himself on fire and the other took place at Varanasi recently.
 
 
