CHANDIGARH: Every day at 5am, a bunch of   would reach the   to   not to defecate in the open and instead get   in their homes. 

 Meet these young crusaders from the Centre for Social Work, PU, who motivated people in nine villages of Mohali and because of whom 230 toilets were constructed. The team was among the young achievers awarded at Panjab University here on Wednesday.
 
 "For six months, we were on duty. The idea was to bring awareness and educate people. Initially, it seemed difficult because the villagers we came across were difficult to be persuaded to construct toilets in their households. We told them that the department of water supply and sanitation, Punjab, would provide money in installments for the construction of toilets in their houses," said Arashdeep Kaur, a team member. 
 
 It was a challenge for these youngsters to achieve the feat. "People had a number of apprehensions. There were some who did not want to install soak pit in the house, which is a requirement for toilets, saying that it would make their entire house stink. So, we had to clear all these apprehensions," said another team member, Sudhir Kumar.
 
 There is lack of awareness and we need to apprise people of welfare schemes, said another team member, Shishpal Sheokant. Before these students set out on this journey to make villages open-defecation free, they were trained to motivate people. They were shown documentaries and made to understand health, hygiene and social issues that revolve around the problem of open defecation. "Six months later, when these women in the villages where we worked, came to us with happy faces and told us we have brought a positive change in their lives, we felt successful," said Ramneet Singh, another teammate. 
 
 Another team of three students from Government College of Commerce and Business Management, Sector 50, was honoured at Wednesday's event for receiving an award from the Union ministry of human resource and development for their contributions to Digital India and cashless schemes.
 
 Post demonetization, when Sahi Agarwal saw her domestic help complaining of her inability to pay for daily requirements since there was limited cash, it made her become a part of the team that went to periphery areas of the Tricity to make people aware about digital payments. "We did a survey first and found out that all these people have smart phones, but they have no knowledge about digital payments. So, we educated them and installed apps on their mobile phones and made them use the apps for their convenience," said another student, Paramjit Singh, who has been an   since 2013.
 
