DEHRADUN: Responding to chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s call to make Uttarakhand fully literate by 2019, the education department has directed the principals of all government schools to make at least four people literate every month.
 
  School principals, students and parent-teacher associations have been asked to identify illiterate people in their vicinity for the purpose.
  
  According to the 2011 Census, Uttarakhand has a literacy rate of 78.82% — including 87.4% male and 70.01% female.
  
   , state project manager, state literacy mission, said, “We have received directions from the education department in this regard. Since we already have 78.82% literacy, if the state government, schools and community people work in tandem, the target will definitely be achievable in the two and half years.”
  
  “In fact, I will be participating in a meeting convened by the   (NLMA) in Delhi on May 25, which is the nodal agency for overall planning, management and funding for adult education programmes and institutions. The future of ‘Saakshar Bharat’ programme is also likely to be discussed there,” he said.
  
  Also, after an illiterate individual becomes literate such that he knows how to read and write the basic language and understand his fundamental rights or beneficial schemes of the government and is able to do simple calculations, the information regarding this should be shared by the school principals with the block education officers who in turn will be required to send the same information to district literacy office.
  
  In fact, education officials cite that what might drive schools to participate eagerly in this vision of making Uttarakhand completely literate is that every year, the school which manages to turn the maximum number of illiterate people towards literacy will be publicly acknowledged and awarded.
  
  Holding videoconferencing session with senior state officers and district magistrates on May 17,   had said, “The responsibility rests with district magistrates of all 13 districts. In the next two years, they will ensure that not a single person is left illiterate.”
  
  Holding DMs accountable for the performance of their respective districts, Rawat stressed on the need of phased campaign to eradicate illiteracy.
