KOCHI: The   on Monday severely criticized   ( ) for exceeding its powers and warned the state government that the ‘Vigilance Raj’ would be the result if the anti-corruption agency is allowed to continue the course.

 A single bench of the court criticized VACB after considering a report filed by the agency’s investigating officer stating that the UDF government was authorized to promote IPS officer N Shanker Reddy and three others to DGP rank and to appoint Reddy as VACB director. The high court is considering a petition filed by former home minister Ramesh Chennithala questioning an enquiry into the promotion of Shanker Reddy alone.
 
 Severely criticizing VACB for exceeding the powers granted to it, the court said in the order, “The VACB will have to explain what is the authority of the Vigilance to comment on or direct the Government to review the administrative decisions and actions taken by the Government. If the Vigilance is given such powers, Kerala will go to Vigilance Raj.”
 
 The court also warned the state government against allowing such abuse of powers by VACB. “In the present report, Sri. Vinod, Inspector, has even gone to the extent of deciding on the legality of the appointment made by the Government. He has no such business and the VACB has no such authority to question or enquire into or report or decide on the administrative matters and decisions of the Government. The Government will have to think very seriously and decide whether the VACB in Kerala should be allowed to reign over the Government,” the court said in the order.
 
 During the hearing, state government informed the court that it has approved the decision of the former government because it is a cabinet decision. 
 
 The court then asked the government to file a written statement to be part of the records of the case.
 
 In the order, the high court also criticized the vigilance court for venturing to decide on the legality and propriety of the UDF government’s decision to promote the police officers. “That is not a subject within the powers and functions of a   established under the Prevention of Corruption Act,” the high court said in the order. The court also stated that the complaint filed by   of   in Thiruvananthapuram before the vigilance court is prima facie mala fide, as only promotion of Shanker Reddy is highlighted, and said it will hear the complainant too. The court has directed for sending a copy of the order to the chief secretary as well as to the vigilance courts in the state.
 
