CHENNAI: Until a year ago, she was known in her village in Kancheepuram as the woman who tried to kill herself and her children after being abandoned by her husband.

 Selvi* now identifies herself as the fiercely independent daughter of two farmers as she helps 80 children in a government home discover the scent of damp earth and the thrill of seeing the first green head of their harvest. On Sunday, as the children tended their plants in the quiet five-acre campus in  , a delighted squeal broke the morning stillness. When Selvi and the others crowded to the farthest corner of their kitchen garden, the source of the noise -a seven-year-old -explained the trigger for her reaction: “My plant nods when I whisper to it,“ said the girl, excitedly.
 
 That was the first time Lavanya*, a sexual abuse survivor, had spoken since she was brought to the home by police two months ago.
 
  had found a confidante in the pomegranate sapling. For 29year-old Selvi, teaching the children to nurture was a way to bury her own traumatic past. For officials, the kitchen garden -which was inaugurated on a pilot basis by social welfare director   on Friday ­ is a source to supplement the nutrition of the boarders in the residential facility, which also operates as a school.
 
 The state government runs six service homes, including the one in Tambaram, for women and girls who have been abandoned and are in need of care and protection.
 
 The facility in Tambaram has 182 women and girls between the ages of 5 to 45. Officials say although the government has allocated `550 for their food every month, it is often insufficient to meet their nutritional requirements.
 
 Anushya Remcy, a counsellor in the home, said many of these girls had little or no support system as their families were the perpetrators of abuse and desertion. “They have little contact with the world outside, save the occasional visits by police or a local guardian,“ she said.
 
 S Durga, 19, who escaped from her family in Krishnagiri after they tried to marry her off when she was 14, said the new activity on campus was relaxing.
 
 “Some of the younger ones instruct the plants to grow up by the time they return the next morning,“ she said, laughing. “For me, learning how to grow my own vegetables is another way to prove to the world I don't need to depend on anyone to feed myself,“ she said.
 
 *(Names changed)
 
