THANE: The   situation in the state since the past few months has claimed yet another life in the   A 10-year-old who tested positive on Saturday for the deadly fever passed away on Monday night in a private hospital. 

 Aaryan Medhekar, a Class V student of St John the Baptist School in Thane, who was in good health till Thursday, suddenly developed a high temperature and began to shiver and complain of a severe stomach ache on Friday. "As the temperature refused to subside till Saturday, he was admitted to a private hospital in the neighbourhood. However, his blood platelet count began to deplete drastically and it touched around 80,000 mcl- which is almost half of the minimum required. After numerous tests, the boy was detected with swine flu," said a relative.
 
 On Saturday, Medhekar was shifted to another private hospital, but his condition deteriorated further. He passed away around 8.30pm on Monday. 
 
 Medhekar, a resident of Khopat, lived with his parents, grandparents and an older brother. His body was sent to a civil hospital for post-mortem early on Tuesday morning. His final rites were conducted thereafter. 
 
 A senior medical official from the health administration machinery said, "From January till date, as many as 320 patients have tested positive for swine flu in Thane's urban pockets. A total of 17 deaths have been recorded. Last month alone saw 185 patients test positive for the deadly disease and there were 13 deaths. Health officers and private practitioners meet on a regular basis to analyze the new cases and discuss how the situation can be mitigated."
 
 The minor's death is particularly shocking since most swine flu fatalities are among middle-aged patients. Last month, a 50-year-old Mulund resident, who was under treatment in a private hospital for three weeks, passed away. A team of officials from   (NCDC) had flown down from Delhi to take stock of the situation arising out of the sudden rise in swine flu and dengue fever cases.
 
 Medical officials have cautioned citizens to adopt precautionary measures against the virus, which can be passed on through sneezing or a handshake. This year, 285 have succumbed to   in Maharashtra.
 
 
