PUNE: If you know your enemies and yourself, you will not be imperilled in a hundred battles -Sun Tzu, the author of The Art of War Taking a cue from the adage, the   has recently set up a “Pakistan Info Room” for providing information to its cadets regarding the  . The main objective behind setting it up is to give out information to cadets about the  , customs and traditions, doctrine, tactics, rank structure, organization and weapons so that they are fully aware and psychologically conditioned to face the not-so-friendly neighbour.

 A National Defence Academy (NDA) authority told TOI, “India has long-standing territorial disputes with Pakistan, which has led to wars and border skirmishes. The Line of Control with Pakistan continues to be active and border disputes are yet to be resolved. The Indian Army has to safeguard the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our motherland at all costs. To achieve this, knowing your adversary is a must, and what better way than to start at NDA — considered as cradle of military leadership.”
 
 A senior officer from NDA told TOI, “This room will be continuously updated with the latest information related to Pakistan — right from the latest photograph to new reports. The room has information about Pakistan’s regions and their internal disputes among others.”
 
 The famous quote of former Prime Minister of Pakistan Zulfikar Ali Bhutto “We will eat grass if we have to but we will make the nuclear bomb” draws one’s attention soon after entering the room.
 
 “This move will certainly make their (cadets’) basics strong. Initially, the cadets used to get information about Pakistan through various discussions, lectures and from available sources. But now, we continuously update the latest developments related to Pakistan so that the cadets get to know. Even if they come to know about Pakistan’s tank potential, war tactics and internal issues, it will not be difficult for them to understand the geopolitics of both the nations before going to the   at Dehradun,” a senior officer from NDA added.
 
 A Brigadier-rank officer said, “It is quite essential to know how Pakistan has changed its conventional war tactics to unconventional. If cadets get to know about it at the academy stage, it will certainly help them understand the intricacies of the Pakistan army’s psychology.”
 
 Brigadier Hemant Mahajan, who has served extensively in Kashmir, welcomed the NDA’s move saying it was a prudent initiative to groom cadets in the right direction. “It is said that knowing the enemy is quite essential to win the war. If we could inculcate this habit right from the academy’s period, it will certainly create a positive difference in the near future,” Mahajan added.
 
 A China room was set up inside the NDA’s Army Training Team three years ago.
 
