Like most siblings, when Rekha (22) and Jayanth (24) were growing up, they were inseparable.

 Unlike most others though, they continue to be so, well into adulthood ­as much out of the bond they share as out of circumstances. The Bengaluru-based brother and sister suffer from a rare genetic condition called Type 4 Mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS), an ailment that affects bones and spine, and results in stunted growth, among other problems.
 
 Jayanth was aged 2 when their parents, Krishne Gowda and Bhavani, first saw the symptoms ­ hearing loss, swelling of the chest, temporary loss of vision, problems with walking ­ but it was wrongly diagnosed as rickets. It was only when Rekha too started showing the symptoms that they did elaborate tests in Bengaluru, sending samples aboard, that the problem was finally correctly diagnosed as MPS. 
 
 The debilitating disease, however, couldn't stop the two. Both were good students and graduated as engineers. They are currently employed at Dell-EMC on contract as associate delivery specialists. They work in shifts because there is only one motorised wheelchair between the two. (They can't stand for more than a few minutes at a stretch). This is also the reason, Rekha had to let go of a great job offer at  . They couldn't accommodate Jayanth too.
 
 “TCS was very impressed with my academic record and I was the first one in my batch to get the offer letter. I was supposed to go to Chennai for two months of training. I would have taken it up but for my brother. I explained our health condition to the company and requested if both of us could be placed at TCS. But the HR policy didn't permit this. I let it go and we are both now employed at Dell-EMC,“ said Rekha.
 
 It would be logistically hard for the siblings to work in different companies because they share the one wheelchair. To buy another, is out of their budget. It costs about Rs 1.85 lakh.
 
 For now, both of them work in different nine-hour shifts and take turns to use the chair. The family, which moved here from Mandya, has taken a house close to the children's office in Mahadevapura so that their mother, Bhavani, is around for any assistance they might need.
 
 “The company has been very cooperative too. Though the office is nearby, we are given a cab for pickup and drop along with an escort for help,“ said Jayanth. For almost everything else, the siblings bank on Bhavani.
 
 “We have permanently kept our motorised wheelchair in the office. But it's old now and giving way. We require a customised wheelchair designed for our height, with adjust able seating and back support. It costs about Rs 1.85 lakh, and we cannot afford another. Our earnings go towards the house rent and other expenses, plus our medicines which cost about Rs 10,000 per month each,“ said Rekha.
 
 The siblings are on a daily dose of painkillers, calcium, eye and ear drops, among medicines. Once in six months, they have an MRI scan and a comprehensive health checkup. A permanent solution to their disorder is an enzyme therapy offered abroad, but the cost of that runs into several crores. For now, it's a distant dream. Their father, Krishne Gowda, is a private school teacher and is about to retire. Bhavani is a homemaker who takes care of their needs.
 
 But despite their financial constraints, Rekha and Jayanth are determined to not let disability get in the way of life. After all, it didn't keep them from consistently earning distinction in studies ­ at school and at  , where they pursued engineering. May be with a little help, they'll continue to roll in style.
 
 Meanwhile, they're open for help on 9632048414.
 
