RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR/DHANBAD: Mohammad Javed’s mutton shop sits just a few meters away from Birsa Munda’s memorial on Old Hazaribag Road in Ranchi. Next to the shop are two others, belonging to Mohammad Rizwan and Parvez. Together, the three draw all the goat meat buyers in Lalpur market. Next to these shops are potholes and drains filled with animal blood, flies and stray dogs. 

 Across the road are four chicken shops. Ramesh Mahato and his counterparts cull chicken in full view of commuters and pedestrians. The stench and feathers flying in the wind compel many pedestrians to cover their nose. 
 
 Pedestrians regularly encounter these scenes while walking across various parts of the state capital. But these have escaped the eyes of the officials. 
 
 But now with the state government ordering closure of illegal  , the   (RMC) is gearing up to remove such “sights” from the city.
 
 The civic body, which is the monitoring agency for meat shops and abattoirs, has been reluctant in keeping a watch on the culling of animals in public view and maintaining hygiene. “The RMC occasionally held drives. But it is not possible to check if every shop has a license. But as it turns out, the meat shops do not want to go through the process because usually they are operating on an encroached land and do not have documents,” another RMC official said.
 
 Many in Jamshedpur also welcomed the decision to close illegal slaughterhouses. Steel City-based outfit Slaughter House Ban Committee, has called for action against the government officials who were in connivance with the traders for the abrupt growth in slaughter houses. 
 
 “Since 1979, the district administration did not issue new licence for establishing slaughter houses nor did it renew the licence of 28 slaughterhouses previously operating. It is surprising how the number of slaughter houses increased in the last four decades,” Babar Khan, a functionary of the outfit, asked. 
 
 The denizens too have welcomed that government’s decision. “The meat shops that have come up in the residential areas carry out slaughtering of animals without any adherence to the environment, health and municipal rules. The authorities need to check the unhygienic condition under which these meat shops operate,” said Kadma resident Mrityunjai Kumar.
 
 In Dhanmad, a DMC official said: “Many owners of slaughterhouses have got themselves registered with the Food Safety & Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) and were under the impression that their papers are complete. Most of them came to the DMC with their certificate of registration and claimed their shops to be legal,” a DMC official said.
 
 Moin Qureshi, who runs a meat shop near Jorapokhar, said a team of police visited his shop and ordered to shut it. “When we displayed our FSSAI registration certificate they did not pay any heed. It is ridiculous that somebody comes out of the blue and asks us to shut our only means of bread and butter,” Qureshi said. 
 
