HYDERABAD: Here's some heartening news for single women in Telangana. In what is the first such instance in the country , the   on Tuesday issued orders paving way for provision of   to single women in the state with immediate effect.

 The scheme will provide a   of Rs 1000 to a woman who is divorced, separated from her husband or unmarried. The yet-to-be-named scheme, launched vide GO No 27, has been initiated with the objective of   (those lacking family and financial support) by providing them an over-arching social safety net.
 
 To be eligible for the scheme, a single woman residing in a rural area should have an annual income not more than Rs 1.5 lakh and for those living in urban areas the income limit is Rs 2 lakh.
 
 But there's a catch -the beneficiary should not have been covered under any other social security pension scheme or be a pensioner under any public or private sector organization.
 
 Also, if the beneficiary remarries or gets   or economic stability after the sanction of financial assistance, the benefit will be discontinued after ascertaining the status.
 
 The guidelines laid down by the government define a single woman as any married woman over the age of 18 years that is separated from her husband for over a year or whose husband has deserted her. Unmarried women above the age of 30 years in rural areas and above 35 years in urban areas too will come under the single women category. “The scheme is aimed at women who do not have any family or financial support.In rural areas, single women are facing severe hardships and the pension will provide them some relief,“ women welfare minister Tummla Nageswara Rao told TOI adding that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is very keen on the implementation of the scheme.
 
 Apart from providing financial assistance, district collectors have also been directed to allot one livelihood support scheme to these women, which include providing land under land purchase scheme or milch cattle or sheep rearing units or self-employment units using bank linkage.
 
