VISAKHAPATNAM: A   is to be held on March 9 and 10 in the port city to attract start-ups, leaders in the space and academicians working on developing FinTech in India, JA Chowdary, special chief secretary and IT advisor to AP chief minister, said. 

 Speaking at a press conference in Mumbai on Wednesday, Chowdary said the event will host an innovation challenge in association with leading partners in the financial services sector under areas of banking, insurance and capital markets. The challenge will host start-ups and disruptive businesses with the three top entries in each area receiving prize money worth Rs 5 lakh each to take forward their operations.
 
 Vizag is being developed as the   or a self-sustained global ecosystem that will host a plethora of businesses looking to expand their capabilities from start-ups to established corporations.
 
 “The FinTech Valley will act as a facilitator for information flow - a playground for innovators to disrupt traditional processes with new, more efficient, economically beneficial technologies that will change the way India does business,” said Chowdary.
 
 In a month since its inauguration in Vizag, the newly-developed FinTech Tower is already housing start-ups such as ValueLabs, Blocktrust, Knolscape, Trasaction Analysts, Genesys Labs and GMS. PayTm too has acquired an office in Vizag with over 200 people currently working in the FinTech Tower.
 
 Chowdary also announced that FinTech Valley has already landed over 10 MoUs for development and resource sharing with companies including the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS),   and Broadridge. These companies are committed to helping develop AP. Broadridge is in the process of setting up the   for Excellence in Vizag. According to Chowdary, AP will create a liberal and easy business environment for blockchain, patents and other fields where FinTech’s scope falls.
 
 Witnessing a convergence of government and innovation, AP chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu has offered support to companies, incubators, facilitators and start-ups, inviting anyone with disruptive ideas to be a part of FinTech Valley on the edge of innovation. According to Neha Puneta, partner and head, FinTech,   India, the state is offering market access and establishing links between various stakeholders to create a sustainable ecosystem.
 
 To support start-ups, the AP government is providing free infrastructure for six months, free fibre (high speed internet) connectivity, and preferential market access to facilitate POCs of the start-ups. Additionally, fund of funds strategy and alternate payment options are being discussed and expected to be on the books soon. An advisory council consisting of global thought leaders from the FinTech space headed by the chief minister is also being planned to handle funds and map out intricacies. Recently, the chief minister had also said that Vizag would be moulded into a FinTech Valley.
 
 The event will host an innovation challenge in association with leading partners in the financial services sector under areas of banking, insurance and capital markets. The challenge will host start-ups and disruptive businesses, with the three top entries in each area receiving prize money worth Rs 5 lakh to take forward their operations.
 
