LUCKNOW: As the first phase of polls draws near, the BJP’s firebrand brigade is out in strength in west  . The attempt appears to make the election discourse much shriller, more radical and polarizing.

 Among those the party has fielded to ramp up the sharpness quotient are Sardhana MLA Sangeet Singh Som and Thana Bhawan MLA Suresh Rana. They and party seniors such as Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad and Smriti Irani are mincing no words in hard-selling provocative issues.
 
 The latest addition to this list of storm troopers is another Union minister Thawar Chand Gehlot. While Irani and Prasad are talking triple talaq and the closure of slaughterhouses, Gehlot has raked up the Aligarh Muslim University’s status.
 
 Both Irani and Prasad have been trying to drag Akhilesh and Dimple Yadav, Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi into the triple talaq debate, demanding to know their stand. Gehlot, too, demands that the SP, Congress and BSP make their stance clear on Dalits and OBC quotas at AMU.
 
 Last Sunday, Rajya Sabha member Vinay Katiyar, a known hardliner, went on record to say that when the BJP wins UP, it would have a majority in the Rajya Sabha. “Then we can take strong decisions on issues such as Ram temple and triple talaq,” he added.
 
 After the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots, which claimed 62 lives and left 50,000 homeless, there were drastic changes in the region’s political dynamics. The Lok Sabha election results reflected a vote divide along the religious lines. Now the BJP appears to be trying to pull back the campaign conversation to the Muzaffarnagar days, says an observer. But, unlike the LS polls, the mood, to an extent, has returned to the pre-riot days.
 
 The BSP is trying to forge a Dalit-Muslim combination. If it succeeds, this could spoil the BJP’s calculations, which has always found in the SP a more convenient opponent. A contest with the SP helps polarise votes along the religious lines, which to an extent, narrows the caste fault lines. A stronger BSP in west UP could increase the BJP’s worry, a BJP insider says.
 
 Adding to problems, Ajit Singh’s Rashtriya Lok Dal appears healthier. It has managed to win back some lost ground, also disturbing BJP calculations, say observers. What’s worrying the saffron pariwar is that rebels from its ranks have crossed over to the RLD and contesting on its ticket.
 
 These complexities probably forced the BJP think-tank to include in their manifesto issues such as the Ram Temple, Kairana and the closure of slaughterhouses, which it expects will get traction in west UP.
 
 Muzaffarnagar riots accused and Sardhana MLA Sangeet Singh Som was the first among BJP leaders to speak the divisive language. Equally controversial Thana Bhawan MLA Suresh Rana, another riot accused, took it a step further. These men are known hardliners. But what has surprised many is that even those seen as moderates within the BJP have raked up touchy issues.
 
 The BJP, it appears, has consciously been asking rivals to clear the air on issues such as triple talaq and slaughterhouses. The strategy could be to commit rivals into taking a position. The party think-tank believes this could cut both ways. If the Opposition doesn’t spell out its stand clearly, the BJP may then claim that its rivals oppose women’s right to equality and dignity. If they do, which is most unlikely, the BJP would appease a large chunk of voters on the religious lines.
 
