Mumbai has elected a 21 year-old woman as its youngest corporator. Women, who enjoy 50% reservation in the civic house, have done well in the open category as well, increasing their representation by 5% from 2012, when the quota was first introduced. The largest proportion of corporators (38%) is in the 41-50 age group, followed by those aged 51-60, who comprise a quarter of the new house. Eighteen corporators (8%) are in the lowest age range of 21-30 years. Twelve (5%) are 61 years old and more.

 The youngest,  , a housewife from Govandi, is representing the   from Shivaji Nagar. She was recently inducted into politics by her uncle, Irfan Khan, who is a local party worker. He insisted on her to contest after the ward was declared reserved for women.Polling 8,343 votes, she defeated her nearest rival, from the Shiv Sena, by 2,648 votes. “My area lacks several facilities and I would like to improve the condition of roads and improve cleanliness here,“ Shaikh said after her victory.
 
 The oldest corporator is the BJP's Ram Barot. Aged 71, he won with over 10,000 votes from Malad. This is Barot's sixth term as a corporator. He was first elected to the BMC in 1992. “The BJP is already in power at the Centre and the state, and now, with our party winning such a large number of seats in the civic polls as well, I am sure we would be able to get development works for the city cleared much faster,“ he said.
 
 Many of the youngest members of the new house won against veterans. For instance, the BJP's Rohan Rathod beat seasoned politician   in Andheri. Amberkar, the leader of the opposition in the BMC before he was replaced mid-term, switched loyalties from the Congress to the Shiv Sena just last month. More remarkably, Sufiyan Niyazahmed Vanu (33) of the Congress beat the leader of the civic house, the Shiv Sena's Trushna Vishwasrao. She was the first woman in the BMC's history to occupy that post.
 
 Other young faces include the BJP's  , who has been elected from Cuffe Parade. She enjoys great support in the upscale area, where she lives in a high-rise.“Perhaps this was the first time that there was a candidate with whom (apartment dwellers) felt they can relate to,“ said Narwekar.Her ward also has slums and villages, including Ambedkar Nagar and Machhimar Nagar.
 
