CHANDIGARH: Punjab Congress   only had a VIP stint in the Army. This caustic remark came from former  , who is most likely the  's candidate from Patiala Urban against Amarinder. If the opening salvos of the two veterans are anything to go by, one can expect the battle for Patiala to get ugly over the next month. .

 Speaking exclusively to TOI from Patiala, where he has already launched his campaign, J J Singh said, "I would have saluted Amarinder during the 1965 India-Pakistan war when he was serving in the Army, but this man, in true Maharaja style, chose to be the ADC to the then Army commander. It's a VIP profile where you do administrative work. The Army is a proud institution and Amarinder hardly served for three years but prattles off his service record like a veteran. Everybody knows how he wrote his last book with one Army man Shergill."
 
 The former Army chief was additional director of military operations during the Kargil war in 1999. He was also the first Sikh to lead the   and had led the Western Command based at Chandimandir in Chandigarh in the past.
 
 The 71-year-old began his campaign on Thursday with an obeisance to local gurdwara Dukhnivaran Sahib. He has now enrolled as a voter from   in Patiala for this election.
 
 "Both Amarinder and I are of around the same age. We both are from NDA and both went to the Infantry,” he added. “This man can’t even walk 10 kilometres. I may be 70-plus but I have the physique of a 17-year-old. I am a mountaineer. I am an adventurer. Dhuaadhar election hoga.”
 
 When asked about his good relations with the Congress, the party that made him Arunachal Pradesh governor in 2008, the veteran said that "it was a well-thought out strategy to be pitted against Amarinder".
 
 "It will be a good quadrangular fight and I enjoy a keen contest. I want to test my skills. I have spent my childhood in Patiala. Let it be known to Patialvis how Amarinder has never entered their local gurdwaras or visited their homes. In fact, in 2012, I was trying to ring Amarinder for two days before poll results. I could never approach him. This, when I was governor. Two days later, he lost the polls. I am glad we never spoke after that," said Singh.
 
