NEW DELHI: As his government completes three years in office on May 26 and   plans to organise month-long celebrations to mark it, PM   on Tuesday told party MPs to go out and “take credit” for all the good work that the government has done, instead of giving the entire credit to him.

 Modi is learnt to have said that they (MPs) too needed to establish their goodwill among the people.
 
 The PM said fatigue generally sets in at the three-year mark but his government had bucked the trend because of its success in implementing policies. “UP results show that,”   said even as he exhorted MPs not to become lazy and zealously promote the government’s achievements.
 
 According to senior MPs, Modi, while referring to the government’s decision to confer constitutional status on  , said it was BJP MPs who deserved credit for fulfilment of the decades-old demand. “You should project it as your own achievement.
 
 There is no need to give the credit to Modi,” the PM said in what was seen by the attendees as an effort to encourage MPs to identify themselves with the Centre’s policies.
 
 “This is a new pitch,” said a party MP who has been a regular at such meetings. Later, parliamentary affairs minister   told reporters that the PM was extremely satisfied with the budget session and called it ‘Vijay Prapti Satra’ (winning session) for the government.
 
 Addressing the meeting, Modi also pitched for pushing the reform and development agenda, asserting that there was a “positive” public mood in favour of the ruling dispensation.
 
 “This is a golden opportunity for us to lift the lives of the poor, the deprived... This is the time for doing more development and reforms,” he said.
 
 BJP MPs were also informed about a one-month programme to celebrate the government's third anniversary from May 24.
 
 Further, Modi said it was the birth anniversary of Hanuman, a devotee of Lord Ram, and asked MPs to dedicate themselves to party work just like Hanuman who was a “dedicated social worker” and did not expect anything in return for it from Lord Ram.
 
