BENGALURU: The   meeting, convened by chief minister   on Monday, failed to end the impasse over the denotification of   in North Karnataka. Sources said that the CM was enraged when he found that   had come unprepared for the meeting.

 Kappatagudda forest is spread across 32,093 hectares in Gadag district. The denotification controversy erupted in November 2016, when the state government withdrew the ‘conservation reserve’ tag given to the forest. While environmentalists alleged that the government withdrew the tag under pressure from mining companies, which were eyeing the rich mineral reserves in the forest range, a few bureaucrats said that the decision was made to protect the interests of the people living in villages in and around the forest.
 
 The issue was intensely debated in in the last two legislative sessions. Members asked the government why a public consultation meeting had not been held on the issue. Finally, a consultation meeting was held at Dambala village in Gadag on January 16, with more than 240 representations being made to the government.
 
 “Of the 247 people who attended the meeting, 221 voted in favour of declaring Kappataguda a reserve forest,” officials informed the CM at the meeting.
 
 Siddaramaiah said, “We will respect the decision of the majority. We are not here to cater to the wishes of groups with vested interests.”
 
 However, officials drew his attention to a legal hurdle. “The previous government granted licence to a major mining company in 2008 to operate in the forest. But we are not sure if the licence was given to carry out mining or exploration for minerals, including gold,” officials told the CM. 
 
 However, when Siddaramaiah questioned them about who the prospective licence had been given to and other details, the officials fumbled for answers, infuriating the CM. “You should come prepared for these meetings. You are sitting in Bengaluru, and have no idea what is happening in which forest. Since you don’t have the necessary documents, I cannot take a decision now,” Siddaramaiah reportedly told the officials. He also ruled out the possibility of convening another meeting to discuss the issue, informing them that he would be occupied with pre-budget discussions for the next month.
 
