HYDERABAD: The   (BAC) of the   on Friday decided to hold the   for 14 working days. The budget for 2017-18 will be presented by finance minister Etala Rajender on March 13. 

 The BAC was chaired by Speaker S Madhusudhana Chary and attended by representatives of all political parties. It was decided that the budget would be preceded by a debate on the governor’s address on Saturday. The BAC has decided to sit on Saturday to complete the business, which include demands of different departments and a motion of thanks to the governor’s address.
 
 The chief minister and finance minister will reply to the budget debate on March 17. The Appropriation Bill will be passed on March 25 and the session will be concluded on March 27. 
 
 Legislative affairs minister T Harish Rao later told reporters that the government is ready to hold the session to the satisfaction of all and meet the constitutional obligations. “Congress walked out of the House when the   was addressing the joint session. This is nothing but escapism. The party does not have any questions to ask, but wants to disrupt the House. We condemn Congress’ attitude even after the government’s clear assurance that it would answer all questions and conduct the House to the satisfaction of all the stakeholders,” he said.
 
 Speaking at the media point in the   complex, Pradesh Congress Committee president N Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged that the governor’s speech had failed to represent the true picture of the state. “The governor said that ease of doing business has resulted in massive investments and establishment of new companies whereas Telangana youth are agitating for jobs. This government did not produce one unit of electricity. The governor only read out whatever the ruling party gave to him,” he said.
 
 TDP working president A Revanth Reddy found fault with the TRS government for not approving the governor’s speech in the cabinet. “Without cabinet’s approval, the governor’s speech cannot be official,” he said.
 
 BJP leader Chintala Ramachandra Reddy wondered why the government did not include central assistance in the governor’s speech when most of its schemes are dependent on funds released by the Centre. 
 
 
