HYDERABAD: National and international companies are likely to vie for making and installation of 125-foot tall statue of Dr B R Ambedkar at   near Necklace road in Greater Hyderabad. But with the bidder yet to be finalised, it remains to be seen whether the statue will be ready for inauguration on April 14 when the nation will observe the 125th birth anniversary of the architect of India's constitution.

 The entire project consisting of the bronze statue and development of Smriti Vanam is likely to cost anywhere between `150 and `300 crore depending upon the require ments to be given by the Telangana government to the manufacturer.
 
 In addition to the 125-feet Ambedkar statue, two more huge statues including 108-feet statue of Lord Hanuman at the entrance of Lord Narasimha Swamy temple in Yadadri and another that of Saint Ramanuja Charya are to be installed in Hyderabad. While the statues of Ambedkar and Hanuman are being promoted by the state government, the over 200-feet statue of Ramanuja Charya has been ordered by the   of Hyderabad. Hyderabad already has 58 feet (18 m) tall Buddha statue installed on the Gibraltar rock in the midst of Hussain Sagar.
 
 Officials who were part of deputy chief minister Kadiam Srihari-led team to China to study the parameters for setting up of a giant Ambedkar statue said the proposal is to invite bids from national and international firms having expertise in manufacturing and installation of huge statues. The team which returned to the city from China recently , had also visited Sikkim where a huge Buddha statue has been installed. The Gujarat and Maharashtra governments are also in the process of installing giant statues of Sardar Patel and   respectively .
 
 When contacted, R&B engineerin-chief I Ganapathi Reddy , who was part of the team that toured China, told TOI that the proposal is to invite bids from expert companies. “We (the team) have been studying the requirements and parametres of setting up such huge statues. The team led by Kadiam Srihari will soon submit report on the kind and size of statues available in Sikkim and China.The CM will take a final call,“ he said.
 
 Chinese firs are well-known for manufacturing giant statues. Several Chinese firms have expressed willingness to make the statue and ship it to project site. If the statue contract is bagged by a firm from abroad, then it would be cast in multiple segments and be brought to city in packed pieces and assembled here. There is also possibility of the statue being manufactured at the project site itself.
 
 Officials were mum as to whether the statue can be ready by April 14 this year as desired by CM. “Since April 14 is only about 45 days away , we do not want to announce a deadline.However, we will aim to execute the project at the earliest,“ he said.
 
