HYDERABAD: If you are weight conscious and want to lead a  , you may now have to revise your  . This is because the calorific value of various foods consumed in India have been revised, and there is a considerable gap between the new Indian values and those fixed by researchers in the West.

 Take the raw white rice for instance. While Western nutritional charts show about 260 calories per 100 grams of raw rice, the revised Indian data has fixed the calorific value of rice at 354. In the case of egg, the calorie difference is about 70 per 100 grams. The calorific value of 100 grams of whole milk is 65 (Western), while it is 107 in the revised Indian charts. Even in case of mutton (shoulder), it is 260 in the West and 188 in India. Ripe banana (100 grams) containS 111 calories in India as against 89 in the West. Due to this wide variation, one has to revise his or her daily dietary chart for optimum results, particularly those on a weight-reduction mission.According to nutritionists, a person with a sedentary lifestyle maintaining a daily calorie intake of about 2,000 should reduce rice consumption from 300 grams to 200-250 grams to maintain a healthy life and avoid weight gain. The number of chapattis should also be brought down. The variation in Western and Indian values ranges from a minimum of 10 calories to a maximum of 150 per 100 gm. Health planners, fitness experts and nutritionists in India have so far been following the nutrition composition tables prepared by the USA, the UK or other developed nations. For the first time, a comprehensive data on over 500 commonly consumed foods in India is also available, thanks to the city-based   (NIN).
 
 Since the NIN data ( ) released last week is based on fruits, vegetables, cereals, oils, meat, fish, egg, poultry produced in India, the values are appropriate to the Indian population. Now, there is no need to depend on the Western data, which is best suited for Westerners.
 
 “The new nutrition tables have far reaching implications to the common man in today's health conscious society. It will be an apt and handy source for making healthy food choices,“ said NIN director T Longvah.
 
