KOLKATA: The Pahlaj Nihalani-led   board isn’t just allergic to all things bovine, it has suddenly grown prickly about ‘Radha’, a reference that has been done to death in film lyrics over the years. 

 Even before the controversy over beeping out words like ‘cow’, ‘Hindutva’ and ‘Gujarat’ in a documentary on   Amartya Sen can die down, it has emerged that the   has sought reference to ‘Radha’ be muted in a song in an innocuous Bengali romcom — Dyakh Kemon Lage. The words ‘Vrindavan’ and ‘rakhal (cowherd)’ in another song in the same film had a narrow escape after the directors argued during a hearing that its promo had been cleared with an uncut U certificate. 
 
 To avoid any trouble, directors Sudeshna Roy and Abhijit Guha have not only deleted ‘Radha’, but an entire line in the song that parodies a popular baul number to get a UA certificate. The film is co-produced by   and Shyam Sundar Dey and has actors Soham and Subhashree in the lead.
 
 The line that the director duo has deleted — ‘Hori din toh gelo sondhya holo Radha kobe ashbe re’ — takes off from the baul number ‘Hori din toh gelo sondhya holo par karo amare’, which was even used by   in the iconic Pather Panchali. In Roy and Guha’s film, a little boy hums the “offending” line to rib Soham as he waits for his lady love. 
 
 Some of the CBFC members felt the word ‘Radha’ was being used in a “derogatory context” in a “disrespectful parody” of the famous lyrics. Guha insists the board just went “overboard”.
 
 It may be mentioned that a Bollywood number currently ruling the waves goes “Mani bani teri Radha” from Shah Rukh Khan-starrer Jab Harry Met Sejal. The 2012 Bollywood blockbuster, Karan Johar’s Student of the Year, had the chartbuster ‘Radha teri chunri’ which had the lines: “Radha on the dance floor/Radha likes to party/Radha likes to move that sexy Radha body”. The song continues to be a party hit.
 
 Indologist Nrisingha Prasad Bhaduri feels such a move only proves the saffronisation of CBFC. “The original baul song has a spiritual significance and embodies a sense of renouncement. I agree that regard towards the writer and the song has to be maintained, but times are changing. If some words are changed, I have the dynamism in me to accept it. Even if the word ‘Radha’ is used in this way, the original song ‘Hori din toh gelo sondhya holo par koro amara’ will stay on for posterity,” he said.
 
 But CBFC members would beg to differ. Bharat Kundu, a CBFC member who was part of the panel that examined the film said: “Over the years, we have lost our self-esteem. I have been a member for over three years and seen people taking liberty in mocking our religion and icons. They don’t do that with other religions.”
 
 Kundu cited the lyrics ‘Krishna korle leela aar aamra korle beela’ from Dev-starrer ‘Challenge’ to claim that when such lyrics enter public domain, they get social sanction. Bhaduri said Hindu religion gives freedom to indulge in coining certain phrases without being disrespectful. 
 
 “If people have accepted this earlier, it doesn’t mean there will be no protests now for insults. It is not that we are against the use of the word ‘Ram’, ‘Radha’ or ‘Vrindavan’. We have no objection if a character’s name is called Radha and it is used in the lyrics. We are only reacting when these words are being used casually to mock the Hindu sentiments,” Kundu added.
 
 “What is the need for using a phrase like ‘Aae chute aae mon etai Vrindavan/Rakhal seje bashi bajai chol’ in context of a womaniser? Why refer to Vrindavan in such a way? Such lines will hurt the sentiments of those who worship Lord Krishna,” Kundu argued.
 
 According to Guha, this song promo has already got 4 lakh views. “We requested the CBFC not to insist on these cuts. Finally, they agreed. The majority of the other cuts were ridiculous. We never wanted to insult our religion by using the word ‘Radha’. By enforcing the ‘Radha’ cut, the CBFC only proved that it is turning into a puppet for the saffron brigade,” Guha said.
 
 Bhaduri pointed out that the Hindu religion gives freedom to indulge in coining certain phrases without being disrespectful. “Our religion gives us the liberty to share an intimate bond with our gods and goddesses. With full regard and a sense of surrender and submission to the Lords, we have still been able to mock our icons in our scriptures and folk lores. That’s why we have accepted proverbs like ‘kolir Keshto’, ‘gobor Ganesh’ and ‘Nyaka Chaityana’ without being disrespectful towards our icons,” Bhaduri added.
 
