GURUGRAM: This coming weekend, the city will be graced by special visitors, qawwals at the dargah of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya who can trace their lineage back to the 14th century, to the court singers of the celebrated   saint.

 The   will be presenting the Khanqahi qawwali, a form of devotional song that was born in the shrines of the Sufis (‘khanqah’, from the Persian for house of devotees; a sanctuary for the brotherhood of Sufis). The Khanqahi   is the original qawwali. It is qawwali in its purest form, the surging melody calling and responding to the words, the words calling and responding to the surging melody, as the qawwal reaches deep inside of his heart and soul to engage with the listener.
 
 “It is only in the last 60-70 years that people have come to enjoy and appr-eciate the qawwalis you hear today, at Sufi nights, and in festivals and programmes,” says Chand Nizami, of the Nizami Bandhu. “Earlier, you would only hear them in the khanqahs and the dargahs.”
 
 It was the Sabri brothers, Ghulam Farid and Maqbool Ahmed, who took the Khanqahi qawwali from the dargah to worldwide acclaim. Then, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan classicised the qawwali, colouring it with Hindustani raags, and driving listeners into raptures. 
 
 They all have been inspired by the songs of devotion sung by the Nizami Bandhu’s forebears.
 
 The tradition of the Khanqahi qawwali goes back more than eight centuries. The Sufi qawwali came from Ajmer, from the mausoleum of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti, but evolved under the love-embracing and humanitarian ideals of Hazrat Nizamuddin and  . And as the tabla and sitar expanded the qawwali’s palette, as raags were woven into the music, more hearts and minds began to derive joy and draw comfort from the qawwali (as, indeed, they continue to do).
 
 And despite the fact that qawwalis have been around in Bollywood, the qawwali’s development in the last 20 or so years, can, believes Chand, be credited to A R Rahman. “Rahman himself has been inspired by the Sufi spirit of Ajmer Sharif, and of the dargah of Hazrat Nizamuddin.”
 
 Those earlier ‘filmi’ qawwalis were celebratory in nature, but Rahman has brought the steeped-in-spirituality Su-fi qawwali to the forefront, with soulful compositions like ‘Khwaja mere kh-waja’ (‘Jodhaa Akbar’), ‘Maula mere maula’ (‘Anwar’) and ‘Kun faya kun’ (‘Rockstar’).
 
 Encouragingly, today the young want to do more than just listen. “The wonderful thing is that, in the last 15-20 years, youngsters have shown a keen interest in learning the qawwali,” reveals Nizami.“Hundreds of boys and girls have come up to me and said, ‘Chand bhai, I want to learn qawwali from you’. They want to learn as well as to listen.”
 
 And the qawwali has enough life to last another eight centuries, and beyond. Because the spirit of Amir Khusro, and of Kabir and Bulleh Shah, will always stay relevant. “Inshallah, we will be performing the very same Sufi qawwalis when we come to  .” On March 26, embrace the rhapsody of ‘The Sufis of Nizamuddin’, at the Aravali Biodiversity Park.
 
 
