JODHPUR: This is an example of negligence by civic bodies in containing   of colonies on the agricultural lands in their jurisdiction and violation of master plan. In one such incident, over three years after the development of a residential colony on the agricultural land and that too in the   area, the   (JDA) learnt about this development. 

 Astounded JDA has now swung into action and besides ordering a detailed survey of the land in Shikargarh area, notices are also being issued to over 50 houses here seeking reply from them in 7 days of the receipt of the notices.
 
 This negligence came to the notice of the JDA officials, a few days back, when some Army officials came to the JDA and complained about the construction of a club house in colony called ' '.
 
 On this complaint, when a team of JDA was sent there to look into the matter, it 'learnt' that the entire colony was developed on an agricultural land without any conversion and notifying the JDA.
 
 JDA commissioner Durgesh Bissa said while notices are being issued to the houses in Vaibhav Vihar seeking reply from them about the layout plan, map and construction permission from the JDA, action against the tehsildar, encroachment inspector of the JDA and the patwari was also to be taken, considering them responsible for this negligence. Besides this a detailed survey of the land has also been ordered by Bissa, which will probably be completed on Monday and would be submitted to him for further action.
 
 Bissa said that the JDA has been sternly dealing with all sorts of encroachment on schemes and JDA lands and has directed the officials to prepare a list of all the encroachments. In a meeting held last week, Bissa had warned the encroachment wing of disciplinary action against them for failing to list the encroachments in their respective zones and remove them.
 
 Bissa said directions have been issued to the officials of the encroachment wing and the zone tehsildars for effective action against the encroachments and the illegal constructions in JDA region and produce its report on daily basis for its effective monitoring.
 
