Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday issued notice to Union minister Rao Inderjit Singh on a plea filed by his brother over the management of Ahir College Society that runs and manages a prestigious educational institution in Rewari.

 While issuing the notice to Rao Inderjit, who is minister of state for planning (independent charge) and urban development, housing and urban poverty alleviation, Justice Rajan Gupta made it clear that on the next date of hearing, the court would hear the plea for stay of operation of state government’s orders regarding appointment of an administrator for the society.
 
 The petitioner’s main grouse is against the appointment of additional deputy commissioner (ADC), Rewari, as administrator of the society and issuance of further proceedings him (administrator) for election of the management committee. He has alleged that the administrator mentioned names of some new society members in the voter list, allegedly at the behest of Rao Inderjit despite the pendency of issue relating to filling up vacancies before the appropriate authority.
 
 HC has also asked the Haryana department of commerce and industries, registrar of Haryana firms and societies, Rewari ADC and district registrar of firms and societies to file reply on the issue. Senior advocate Atul Lakhanpal has received notice on behalf of the Union minister.
 
 The matter has been fixed for August 1 for further hearing.
 
 Petitioner Rao Yadevendra Singh, who is president of Ahir College Society, has sought directions for quashing the June 6, 2017 order passed by industries and commerce department Haryana, appointing the ADC, Rewari, as the society administrator. His counsel R S Chahal has submitted before the HC that the state government appointed the ADC as administrator despite the fact that it (HC) had already ordered to keep the decision of appointing an administrator in abeyance in a similar matter. Chahal alleged that the administrator was appointed under the influence of Rao Inderjit to usurp the management of the society.
 
 The petitioner has also sought directions to decide the dispute regarding the membership of Ahir College Society, Rewari, to help resolve vacancies for membership (of society). The dispute relates to supremacy in the governing body of the Ahir College Society, which was established in 1972 for promoting education by founding and managing Ahir College Rewari. Elections for the management committee of the society are held every three years.
 
 On December 16, 2011, a meeting was held under the chairmanship of Rao Inderjit, who was the vice-president of the society, and the election announced for January 16, 2012. In these elections, the vice-president was elected unopposed and Aarti Singh Rao, daughter of Rao Inderjit, was elected treasurer. As the management committee poll was due, few vacancies had occurred following the death of some members. 
 
 
