SURI: A day after villagers demonstrated at the site of a proposed township and   at  , on the outskirts of Bolpur, Trinamool leader   invited the agitators for discussion on Tuesday. However, eventually they didn't meet him. Construction of boundary wall at the site was restored under police protection.

 On Monday, a group of villagers assembled at the site, damaged the walls and halted construction work. The agitators tried to organize a rally but it could not be held on Tuesday. Apart from police force, the presence of some unknown people raised the eyebrows of the agitators. The 200odd “outsiders“ created a panic-like situation. The villagers alleged these people were brought from nearby areas to frighten them.
 
 Mondal said: “If the villagers do not come to me, I'll go to them to discuss the matter and convince them how they will benefit if the proposed township and university is set there.“ Mondal accused CPM and a section of the media of inciting and misguiding the local people against the ongoing projects. “The CPM leaders who have no guts are inciting the innocent villagers from behind the curtain. And a section of greedy media persons is creating all this nuisance. The people of the area can not understand to what extent the entire area will be developed. Thousands of people will earn a livelihood from the projects. When they will understand all this, they will not oppose any more.“  , a leader of Monday's agitation who didn't receive compensation, said: “Mondal through his messengers informed us he would come and meet us here.But today morning we found the outsiders gathered at the site. We sensed some trouble. Today we were told to go to Mondal's house for discussion but we refused to go there. We told them we want neither extra money nor a football ground.They have to either set up industry or return land.“
 
 He said a case had been filed in Calcutta high court on January 17, seeking stay on the proposal of setting the township and university . The case would be heard on February 3.
 
