BHOPAL: The   has launched an   in Amarkantak ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to convince a huge crowd, which would gather for darshan and a dip in holy Narmada river on May 15, to avoid the dip to save the sacred river from pollution. As the major turnout is expected on the day that will mark the culmination of Narmada  , the BJP workers launched a campaign to discourage use of plastic and polythene bags in the area.

 The party initiative comes in view of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directives to the state government on preparedness to handle crowd at the culmination of Narmada Sewa Yatra. 
 
 “We are expecting a huge crowd on May 15. So, we have initiated a cleanliness drive from last week to prevent use of plastic in Amarkantak and kept waste containers and jute bags in the town to collect garbage,” said BJP state general secretary Vishnu Dutt Sharma. 
 
 As a huge turnout at the meeting spot, hardly 150 metres from the Narmada temple, is expected, party workers will appeal to pilgrims to avoid taking a holy dip in the river to prevent water and air pollution, he said. 
 
 “BJP workers will appeal to people in Amarkantak to avoid using plastic and desist from taking a dip in the sacred river to save it from pollution. It would be under the awareness campaign without any compulsion,” Sharma said.
 
 The state administration has prepared a list of guests and deployed 5,000 jawans as additional force in the area during PM’s visit. The administration has made two camp sites in Umaria and Shahdol, where arrangements of food and lodging will be made for public.
 
 “We have 22 camps in Shahdol and Umaria each for people’s stay. People can perform daily chores in these camps besides having meals. Form these camps, people will proceed towards the venue where Prime Minister will address the public,” said Shahdol divisional commissioner B M Sharma.
 
 He said during festivals more than one lakh people would gather in Amarkantak for a holy dip and the administration could not stop them from going to the temple. In view of the huge gathering, alternate arrangements have been made in other parts of the district to divert the crowd.
 
 While the BJP is focusing on   and environment conservation, the party has prepared a team of 1,000 volunteers, who will clean up the meeting area on May 16 after Prime Minister’s visit. 
 
 “We are dedicated to environment conservation. After Prime Minister’s visit, our team will clean up the entire area the next day to make the river pollution-free. We have taken initiatives a week ahead and would continue till the mission is accomplished,” Sharma said. 
 
 
