Following the terror attack at the end of a concert in  , BT reached out to filmmakers to know whether the United Kingdom is still a safe shooting location.The United Kingdom has always topped Bollywood filmmakers’ bucketlist of hot-spots for shooting as well as holidays. Even as we speak,   and David Dhawan have just wrapped a schedule of   2 in London with   and Taapsee Pannu. A few days ago, Alia Bhatt was holidaying there with her mother. A host of films continue to be shot in United Kingdom. Given the recent turn of events at Manchester Arena, will Bollywood still make its way to their favourite shooting destination? Here’s what the filmmakers had to say: 

 
 
 I’m heading to London on June 14 for a location recee for Saina Nehwal’s biopic. I had to check out Wembley, apart from some other crucial locations as they are important to the narrative. We can’t do a cheat shoot in any other part of the world because by doing that, we are only showing how scared we are and that authenticity in a story doesn’t hold relevance. I want to shoot at real locations. It’s a shame what happened at the Manchester Arena. It’s scary but can we stop living? London has been in a vulnerable condition for a while now. We don’t know if and when these attacks would stop. The sad part is we don’t know which city could be on their target list next. Do we lock ourselves in a room then?
 
 
 
 London is a pivotal point in this biopic which Shoojit Sircar and I are working on. How can we not shoot in London? Terrorism is a global problem and we have to learn to fight it and go on with life. We can’t just bring everything to a halt because of that. Yes, it’s easier said than done. But we have to get on with life. Our choices can’t be driven by terror attacks. I’m sure those who were at Manchester Arena didn’t go there thinking they would end up becoming part of a nightmare. There is no guarantee that London or any other city won’t be attacked. Everyone is at an equal disadvantage and risk. It’s unsafe to shoot in London at this moment, but that can be an argument for any and every city in the world. There’s no alternative except fighting the situation and surging ahead.
 
 
 Urban terrorism is a social evil which people all over the world will have to accept and live with. The UK cannot be isolated from its occurrence and the filmmakers who desire to shoot in London and its surroundings are as vulnerable as they would be in their homes.
 
 
 Why should we encourage terrorists by a show of fear? If a story demands to be shot in London, so be it. It has to be shot there. Yes, attacks like the one that happened at Manchester can only stop the authorities from giving us due permission to shoot at certain places, but not all of London. I shot 'Housefull 3' there two years ago. Even India has seen terror strikes. Nothing stops anyone in the world from coming to our country for whatever their purpose is. Why should London go off our wish list for locations then?
 
 
 I had shot one of my Tamil films in London and it breaks my heart to see the city targetted by terrorists. First, the attack near Westminster and now, at the Manchester arena. England is one of the safest countries, but it's also among the power centres of the world. I think the government and intelligence agencies have to beef up security measures. I will not think twice before shooting my film there again because it's such a beautiful city. Except for racism, which unfortunately is very prevalent there, the people are very warm.
 
 
 
 Incidents like the one at Manchester can happen anywhere. We are not safe anywhere in the world which is sad. This incident, however, doesn’t make London any less safe than it was. It’s safer than a lot of cities in the world. A few weeks ago, I was shooting ' ' in London. A decade back, stepping outside your home didn’t make you feel so insecure. These incidents were rare. But today, if you think top hotels are safer than open spaces, haven’t we seen the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks? I don’t know what kind of a world we are leaving behind for our children. Earlier, if someone forgot a bag, we’d look for its owners name on it. Today, we don’t step near it, lest it contains a bomb. I’m reminded of Gandhiji’s words, ‘An eye for an eye makes the whole world blind’.
 
 
 My film 'Namastey London' was shot there. Sadly, terrorism has become a part of our society world over. We can either choose to live in fear or not get deterred by it. If I need to shoot a film on a foreign land, such a heinous terror attack won’t force me to alter my plan. 
 
 
  
 
