BENGALURU: With numbers becoming the deciding force, 42   Congress MLAs, holed up at a luxury resort 25 km from Bengaluru, put up a show of unity on Sunday, extending support to the party's   candidate  . His nomination has created a storm in the party unit. 

 The party had, on July 28, flown 44 of its MLAs into Bengaluru to stop them from switching over to the  . Two returned to Gujarat citing personal and political reasons, a source said. The   on Sunday "paraded" 42 legislators backing Patel before the media, at a resort close to the one where they have been staying since Friday night, following criticism that the party is holding the MLAs hostage. 
 
 National spokesperson of the Congress and Gujarat   Shaktisinh Gohil claimed that the BJP came up with an "irresistible offer" - Rs 15 crore to each MLA, a party ticket in the upcoming Gujarat polls and funds to contest. "The BJP has resorted to low-level politics and is using money, muscle and state machinery to win polls. We have decided to stand by the party, and not allow the BJP to murder democracy," he added. Substantiating his allegations, Kaminiben B Rath ore, MLA of Dahegam in  , who is here Gandhinagar, who is here with her family, alleged that she too had received the offer of Rs 15 crore from the BJP but had rejected it outright.
 
 Gohil also claimed the numbers are in their favour as they have managed to establish contact with six of the seven legislators who resigned from the party to join the BJP. “In the 182-member Gujarat assembly, we have guaranteed support of 57 members though we need only 47 to elect Ahmed Patel.Three NCP and JD(U) legislators have agreed to support us, taking our strength to 60," Gohil added, ruling out any possibility of cross-voting.
 
 
 
 
 Earlier, Gohil exhorted the media to support the Congress and report the party's point of view. "Today it is us, tomorrow it may be you (media). Democracy is passing through trying times. I would request media owners, channels and newspapers to save democracy. This responsibility lies with you too," he added.
 
 
 
 
 High drama prevailed soon after the Congress paraded its 42 MLAs at a resort on Sunday. Soon after their show of unity, the legislators were whisked away from the resort under police escort. This was after national spokesperson and MLA Shaktisinh Gohil promised the media one-onone meetings with the MLAs.But there was a ruckus as electronic media persons made a vain attempt to interview the MLAs soon after the parade. Some were also injured when they were pre vented from meeting the MLAs by police and politicians. Fearing negative reports, the MLAs were brought back to the resort for one-on-one interviews and later, it was a free-for-all as the MLAs mingled with reporters on the sprawling resort lawns.
 
