JAMSHEDPUR: The state’s leading   hub, Adityapur industrial area has pinned its hopes on the two-day   scheduled to be held in Ranchi on February 16 and 17. 

 Expecting   to inject a fresh lease of life in the ailing automobile hub the entrepreneurs have planned to cash on the maximum from the available opportunity in pushing up business prospects for the local industry.
 
 “Important thing is that several entrepreneurs have been invited for B2B (business to business) session at the investors summit where we shall have the opportunity to enlighten the global investors the potential of Adityapur industrial area,” said Adityapur Small Industries Association (ASIA) president,  . 
 
 In the light of ancillaries’ representative body, ASIA, getting a window of 10 minutes to present their case before top corporate honchos at the summit the local ancillary owners are working overtime to prepare a compact yet effective document for presentation. 
 
 “The paper will showcase progress of the industrial hub since its inception five decades ago and give vital information pertaining to its characteristics and strengths,” said ASIA general secretary,  . 
 
 Referring to the outcome of the meeting of the delegation of ASIA with chief secretary, Rajbala Verma on February 10, a senior functionary of the body said, “The meeting was a total success as on our request CS instructed the concerned officials to allot a dedicated pavilion to ASIA.” 
 
 Besides, the pavilion is apparent to come up at “Focus Area” segment identified by the state government for automobile manufacturing industries. He also said that the idea behind clubbing all the units of Adityapur under one pavilion is to showcase different types of small industries that are operating in harmony for several years besides, investors visiting the pavilion will get a sense of how rainbow of units are operating under one umbrella. 
 
 Despite the summit taking place amid the global trend of economic slowdown, the local entrepreneurs are confident the event will open new avenues for the ancillaries. “All through last several years we have been looking for opportunities beyond Tata Motors hopefully the proposed event would ensure our wishes are fulfilled,” said entrepreneur, Saurabh Chaudhary. 
 
