THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As women from various parts of the state started flocking to the city for  , various government departments are all set to ensure proper facilities for them. The   (KWA), which has a tough task of ensuring   to lakhs of devotees, has stored around 25 million litres of water in four major tanks in various parts of the city. 

 Despite the depleting water level in Peppara dam, which could cater to the needs of the city only for less than 50 days, the KWA has been storing water in four tanks - three at Vellayambalam and one at Iranimuttam for the past one week. In addition to this, 60 million litres of water from regular distribution will be diverted for the drinking water needs of devotees participating in pongala. Other areas in the city are expected to feel water shortage due to diversion of water. 
 
 As many as 1,650 temporary taps have been installed at various parts of the city for pongala devotees. On the banks of  , the KWA has installed five showers for devotees to take bath. The authorities have kept in mind that demand for water will be more this year as the summer is hotter and there is shortage of water as several traditional sources have already dried up. 
 
 KWA has also agreed to supply water for four fire hydrants of fire and rescue service near Attukal temple. It will also serve 100 water tankers in the area.
 
 It has also taken up initiatives to clean sewerages in the city. Senior officials of KWA said that cleaning of sewage lines, manholes and wells was completed ahead of the festival. The department has also arranged generators to ensure pumping to prevent sewage overflow. 
 
 The intense summer heat along with heat from pongala hearths is likely to cause discomfort to the devotees as most of them set up the hearths in open places and on roadsides. India meteorological department, Thiruvananthapuram, said that rains are expected on Saturday. "The southern districts are getting rains for the past few days and temperature has come down compared to last week. Maximum temperature will be around 33-34 degree Celsius. Even if there is rains, it will be only for a short duration," said   director S Sudevan.
 
 The state government has made elaborate arrangement for pongala, spending Rs 2.76 crore. As part of implementing green protocol, use of disposable glasses and plates will be discouraged.
 
 KSRTC will operate 400 services each from urban and rural areas. The Railways will run special trains on Thiruvananthapuram-Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram-Nagarcoil routes. There will be stoppage for trains in all stations till Kottayam on Saturday.
 
