CHENNAI: When it took only 14 days for election commission of India to settle leadership and symbol row that rocked Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh, why should it take more than five months to adjudicate intra-party tussle of  ?

 Raising this question, Madras high court has directed the election commission to take a decision on the AIADMK general secretary election and two-leaves symbol issues by October 31. It also referred to the first bench’s ultimatum that local body elections in Tamil Nadu should be completed by November 17, 2017, and said immediate resolution of AIADMK issue is critical to comply with the ruling.
 
 Invoking the ‘measure of promptitude’ to be shown by the election commission in such matters, as mandated by the Supreme Court, a bench of   and Justice  , said on Friday: “Election Commission is not expected to keep proceedings of this nature indefinitely. This is more so in this case, on account of the direction given by the principal bench of this high court directing the government to hold elections to local bodies by November 17. Any delay in the matter would seriously hamper the functioning of the political parties in their political activities.” Justice Sasidharan, writing the judgment for the bench, cited the Supreme Court order that said the election commission inquiry should not get bogged down in a quagmire. Citing the example of election commission decision in Uttar Pradesh, the bench said: “It is worth mentioning that dispute (by Samajwadi Party) was raised only on January 2, 2017, and it was disposed of on January 16, 2017. This shows the sense of urgency and measure of promptitude shown by the commission in matters like this.”
 
 Reiterating that the AIADMK symbol issue had to be decided before the civic polls, the bench fixed October 31 as the outer time limit for ending the dispute. The commission shall dispose of the dispute on merits, as per law and after hearing all the parties to the dispute as expeditiously as possible, the bench said.
 
 The petition sought a direction to the election commission to hold joint sitting of all MLAs, MPS and members of executive and general councils of AIADMK to ascertain support enjoyed by rival groups, so that party leadership and symbol could be allotted to those who enjoyed the majority.
 
 It all started with the nomination of   as temporary general secretary of AIADMK at its general council meeting on December 29, 2016, after the death of its general secretary Jayalalithaa on December 5, 2017. The presidium chairman of the party E   moved the commission challenging her nomination on March 16, 2017, setting in motion the lengthy adjudication proceedings.
 
 On March 22, 2017, the commission restrained both sides from using the party name and symbol, and they prepared to fight RK Nagar byelection under independent symbols. The bypoll was, however, on April 9. Though the commission gave both sides time till June 16 to file affidavits and documents, the issue has not been decided yet, prompting Adityan to file the present petition for early resolution of the dispute.
 
