JAIPUR:   Kirori Lal Meena on Thursday alleged there was a nexus between   and government officials because of which   (ECs) for mines were deliberately being kept in abeyance. 

 “In the absence of ECs, the state government cannot have lease agreements with bajri contractors. This condition is being exploited by the contractors to continue mining around river Banas without any time limit, while the state is losing out Rs 10,000-cr annually in royalty,” Meena said.
 
 The NPP MLA and independent MLA Hanuman Beniwal both raised the matter through adjournment motion and demanded probe in the matter by the state police’s Special Operations Group.
 
 Mines minister Singh refuted the charges saying the contractors were mining bajri with the Supreme Court’s permission. “Whatever is happening in this matter, it is under the court’s directions,” Singh said. 
 
 Meena, however, asked the minister to appeal against the court permission obtained by the contractors.
 
 The minister, on the other hand, informed the house there was no loss of revenue to the exchequer, as the government collected Rs 1140-cr in past three years from bajri contractors.
 
 Singh said a committee under additional mines director was examining Meena’s complaint about illegal mining going on in 60 villages in Tonk-Sawai Madhopur. “We will take action once the committee report comes in,” Singh said.
 
 The minister, at the same time, accused the previous Congress government of favouring bajri contractors. “Auction of bajri mines got us Rs 467-cr in revenue but the previous government kept the reserve price at just Rs 51-cr. Keeping the reserve price so low shows the previous government’s intended to either cause loss of revenue or favour someone in particular,” Singh said.
 
 When the minister was concluding his reply, Meena suddenly got into a heated argument with speaker Kailash Meghwal. Parliamentary affairs minister Rajendra Rathore and chief whip Kalu Lal Gurjar objected to Meena’s remarks, which were later expunged from the house records.
 
 
