TRICHY: A 34-year-old   (VAO) allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a moving train near Thanjavur on Friday evening. The   (GRP) identified the deceased as M Venkatesan of Rettipalayam in Thanjavur. He was working as a VAO in Thalayamangalam in Orathanadu taluk in the district and had additional charge of   village too.

 Though the victim's family had not mentioned work pressure in their petition, functionaries of the Tamil Nadu Grama Nirvaga Aluvalar Munnetra Sangam, alleged that work pressure and humiliation from higher officials had forced Venkatesan to kill himself.
 
 Venkatesan allegedly jumped in front of the   train near Vannarapettai railway station while he was returning home after work. Some railway employees found his body lying on the tracks. His wife V Ilak kiaya and his father Mohandass, a retired tahsildar, rushed to the spot and identified his body . Venkatesan and Ilakkiya had got married six months ago.
 
 On the basis of a complaint lodged by Ilakkiya, the GRP registered a case and sent the body to   for postmortem, said railway special sub-inspector and investigating officer Jayakumar.
 
 State secretary of the association S Sundarrajan said revenue officials had been pressurizing VAOs to complete the process of enumerating farmers for the purpose of distributing drought relief. He alleged that the officials wanted the VAOs to “complete the process overnight.“
 
 “We are required to collect photocopies of farmers' Aadhaar cards, bank passbooks, patta and chitta and other required documents in support of their land as well as their identification. It is not possible to collect these details overnight. The additional task of uprooting seema karuvelam trees, has taken up much of our time,“ he said.
 
 While speaking to reporters, Thanjavur tahsildar Gurumurthy said that VAOs are assigned to execute distribution of freebies like saris and dhotis to beneficiaries, eradication of seema karuvelam trees, enumeration of farmers for drought relief. However, they are never given adequate time to complete the work. Many of them work overtime and this adds to the stress.
 
 “The district collectors should explain the ground reality to their superiors. Most VAOs have been assigned to look after at least two or more villages beyond their dedicated panchayat. Thus, they are struggling to meet targets,“ he added.
 
