PATNA: Bihar chief minister  , who sent out on Tuesday a loud and clear message to his deputy,  , to resign from the state cabinet, is now faced with the “burning question of the hour” on the fate of his grand alliance government following Tejashwi’s refusal to step down voluntarily.

 Nitish, as usual, sat beside Tejashwi in the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday morning and even chit-chatted with him a couple of times, but a few members of the cabinet sensed the slightly “grave expression” on the face of the CM, who had told his partymen on Tuesday that he would not compromise on action against corruption.
 
 “Nitish normally shares a few light conversations with Tejashwi when the two sit next to each other on the sidelines of cabinet meetings. But he seemed to be quite serious today,” one cabinet minister said on condition of anonymity.
 
 The CM avoided speaking to mediapersons as well after the cabinet meeting.
 
 Nitish’s silence of the past six days is perceived by senior JD(U) functionaries to be quite obvious as they claim that though the CM does not want to allow any dent in his image as someone with “no tolerance” for corruption, he also does not want to take the blame for breaking the alliance. “That is the reason he sent out a message on Tuesday that the RJD should go to the people and explain the charges of corruption levelled against the Lalu family in the FIR lodged by the CBI last week,” a senior JD(U) functionary and former minister told TOI.
 
 Nitish “suddenly” cancelled the state cabinet meeting last Wednesday, the day the CBI had lodged an FIR against Lalu, son Tejashwi and wife Rabri Devi, among others, in a case related to anomalies in the bidding process for allotment of two railway hotels when Lalu was railway minister. The next day he went to Rajgir, citing health reasons.
 
 Sources, however, claimed that in Rajgir he had held detailed deliberations with a couple of close aides, including R C P Singh, on the fate of the coalition government.
 
 BJP had alleged a couple of weeks ago that Lalu had sent emissaries, including close aide and former Union corporate affairs minister Prem Chand Gupta, to meet a couple of central BJP leaders to seek protection for his family from Central agencies in return for toppling the coalition government in Bihar.
 
 Meanwhile, JD (U) leaders do not appear satisfied with the explanation given by Tejashwi following Wednesday’s cabinet meeting. “We are not asking whether he had a beard or moustache when the alleged corrupt action was committed. He should explain whether he is not a shareholder in the firm that owns the land allegedly given as quid pro quo. Our party has only asked him to give point-wise explanations in public and he must do so,” JD(U) national general secretarty Shyam Rajak told TOI.
 
 RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari, on the other hand, said Nitish’s mind does not work straight. “Nitish ka dimaag tedha-medha chalta hai … Nitish kya nirnay lenge gathbandhan pe wahi jaanein (Nitish’s mind works in a haywire fashion.. Only he knows what decision he will take on the fate of the alliance government),” Tiwari said.
 
 
