DHANERA (BANASKANTHA): A tractor would be required for salvage if you are stuck on any road in this flood-ravaged town of Banaskantha. A thick layer of muck about one foot to two feet muck has stuck on every road and lane, making it almost impossible to walk. This is just one picture of massive devastation that the recent heavy rains and floods have caused in this town bordering Rajasthan. 

 The noxious stench of rotting grains and dead animals that can leave anyone asphyxiated grips the air five km before Dhanera. Most people are donning masks to get whatever little relief from the stink
  
  
 You are clueless how to go about in the town as all the roads are broken and the fear of getting stuck in the muck lingers continuously. The roads that were 15 feet broad have been reduced to just four feet and vehicles of all sizes – tractors, bikes and cars – struggle to negotiate their way.
 
 People, who were shifted to safer places are returning gradually only to find their houses dilapidated and belongings untraceable. 
  
  
 When TOI team entered the town, the sight was pitiable. Locals with worry writ large on their faces and drained out of energy were throwing out rotten grains and other belongings rendered useless by the floods.
 
 Severe scarcity of food is resulted in scenes that are familiar in war-ravaged countries. The hungry and famished sprint like mad as soon as they see a vehicle with relief material in the town. There are countable shops that still have packaged snacks and namkeen and one odd tea kiosk in the town.
 
 “We don’t even have fresh pair of clothes to change. Everything is washed away,” says Bhamraji Devaji, a resident who comes here only in the day time and spends the night in safer locations like Deesa and other places.
 
 The reason why they are scared to live in the night is the muck. “There is so much muck in the entire town that we won’t be able to escape if there is another spell of heavy rain or flood,” Bhamraji adds.
  
  
 Soneji Barot, a reputed person in the town says, “It will take at least two months for Dhanera to stand up again. This is the worst-ever devastation by floods.”
 
 Locals are spending dark nights as most electricity poles and transformers are badly damaged. Adding to the woes of cleaning efforts are the large number of trees that lie scattered on the roads after being swept into the town in the swelling waters of river Banas.
 
 As the threat of diseases outbreak looms large, a massive clean-up operation has been launched by the district administration with teams from Surat, Vadodara and other cities joining in.
 
 “As many as 20 earth movers are working overtime to clear the muck from roads. Two mobile health vans have also been activated along with the staff of primary health centres and community health centres,” assistant collector Dr   said. 
 
