HYDERABAD: In a first, consultants appointed by the planning department used findings of the Integrated Household Survey to gauge the number of women who are “unmarried, single and aged over 30". The move was mandated following chief minister  's announcement of Rs 1,000 monthly pension for single women.

 In a telling revelation, women in this category were found living in predominantly urban districts such as Hyderabad, Medchal and Ranga Reddy. There are 1.45 lakh women in the state who are single, unmarried and over 30. If Hyderabad tops the list with 36,659 single women, Medchal and Rangareddy districts, that are contiguous with Hyderabad, follow with 16,112 and 12,127 women respectively.
 
 Experts say the reason for this demographic spread is that women from major cities and towns are more focussed on their careers as opposed to those from rural areas. In rural areas, social, financial and other factors are main reasons for women remaining unmarried or for them being deserted. The pension scheme announced by chief minister will primarily focus on rural areas because illiteracy levels and social stigma here are far higher.
 
 Rekha Lahoti, former chairperson of  , feels women these days are taking their time to become financially stable and then settle down. “Social trends such as parents looking for a match when the girl turns 21 has taken a dip. Work has assumed importance with aspirations among women high from all strata of society ,“ she said.
 
 Speaking on the state pension plan,  , director (pensions),  , said the scheme will be implemented from April. Eligibility criteria will be finalised by month-end. Among other things to be decided are minimum and maximum age, annual income limit, status of women i.e. whether they are unmarried, Joginis, destitute or have been deserted.
 
 After finalisation of guidelines, a notification will be issued for eligible single women to apply and officers at the village level in rural areas and ward level in urban areas will list out eligible women. B P Acharya, special chief secretary, state planning department said this is only one category of single women. Instructions are being issued to district collectors to collect details and numbers of all single women and ensure those most in need of the scheme are covered. There are widows who are already being given pensions under Aasara scheme and a cross verification of beneficiaries will be done.
 
