RANCHI: The school education and literacy department has issued toll free numbers where people can call up to complain about irregularities in the sale or purchase of benches and desks or their quality in government schools. 

 The toll free numbers are 1800-345-6542 and 1800-345-6544.  , project director of   said, "If the common people find any irregularities in the sale or purchase of desks or find the quality of the desks unsatisfactory after purchasing, they can complain on these toll free numbers and immediate action will be taken in the case, after an enquiry."
 
 The department plans to ensure that every   across the state has proper benches and desks by March this year. The school management committees (SMCs) have been given the responsibility of purchasing the desks. 
 
 There had been a demand of around 10 lakh benches and desks from approximately 32,000 schools. School education and literacy department secretary   said, "We had got a model for benches prepared by a carpenter in Ranchi and circulated it among the SMCs. The cost for construction of each unit is Rs 4000 and the budget amount has already been sanctioned to the accounts of SMCs." 
 
 "The SMCs will have to place an order for the construction of benches and desks with the local artisans and craftsmen, under the state government's scheme 'Har Haath ko Kaam'. Almost all schools have placed the order now," said Kumar. Many SMCs are getting the desks made in the school premises itself.
 
 "We started getting complaints from several places that big suppliers have been approaching schools and pressurizing them to buy the desks from them instead of getting it made by the local carpenters. The steps to conduct inspections and releasing the toll free numbers have been taken to keep a check on any such activities in future," Patnaik said.
 
 The   (DSEs) have been directed to keep a tab on the SMCs and ensure that the purchase is carried out properly. 
 
 A three-member committee has been formed under the deputy commissioner of every district to keep a check on the SMCs' work. "DCs have been asked to take action against those who are found flouting the norms in the purchase," Kumar said.
 
 Meanwhile, a state level three-member committee has also been constituted which will start visiting every district from this week itself to check the progress of the work.
 
