NAGPUR: It took over four hours for an injured bluebull ( ) to get treated on Friday, thanks to the callous approach of the forest department. Bluebulls are listed under Schedule III of the   Protection Act, 1972.

 Around 7am, businessman Dhiraj Sonkusare was walking his dog when he spotted an   near Butibori railway over bridge (ROB). Upon enquiring, Sonkusare found out that the animal was hit by a speeding car in the wee hours. 
 
 “I was told that three persons, who were in the car got injured too. The animal was bleeding and had internal injuries in the limbs. I started making calls to some NGOs but got no response. Somehow, I managed to contact officials of Butibori forest range,” Sonkusare said.
 
 After almost one-and-a-half hours, two forest staffers reached the spot. “Instead of facilitating immediate first-aid to the animal, they started completing formalities of spot panchnama,” he added.
 
 Frustrated by the inaction, Sonkusare called for a local pick-up van in which the animal was taken to Butibori range forest office, which was about 10kms away. 
 
 “We reached there around 10.30am and waited for half an hour, after which the animal ambulance from   transit centre came,” he said.
 
 After being treated by veterinary doctor at the transit centre, the bluebull was shifted to Gorewada rescue centre. “Since we don’t have an enclosure for bluebulls, the doctor suggested to shift it to Gorewada,” said forester LG Gedam, who is holding additional charge of Seminary Hills transit centre.
 
 He added that the ambulance was sent to the animal’s rescue as soon as they received a call. “We got a call around 9.45am. Due to the Metro work, it took a while to reach Butibori. We did not delay in going there,” Gedam said.
 
 Butibori range forest officer Ravindra Gadge could not be reached for comments on the issue. 
 
 A forest staffer of Butibori range said they were not equipped to treat the animal. “We don’t have an ambulance or a veterinary doctor. So, we were waiting for the ambulance to come from Nagpur,” he said.
 
 This is not the first time that the forest department failed in providing timely treatment to injured wild animals. Last month, a nilgai calf that was abandoned from its mother, was juggled between the Gorewada rescue centre and Seminary Hills transit centre. It was finally admitted to the transit centre but had died within a week, allegedly due to negligence.
 
 
