Panaji:   has protected his turf in style but Indian football now has more than a handful of crorepatis. At last count, there were five of them and by the time the Indian Super League (ISL) concludes its domestic player draft in Mumbai later this month, there could be three more.
 
  The   ( ) decision to play the   and Indian Super League (ISL) concurrently means India’s best footballers – and there are not too many of them – have been in huge demand with clubs eager to tie them down with extended contracts.
  
  Chhetri, as always, was the most sought-after and emerged as the best-paid footballer this season. The India captain and   striker penned a three-year contract worth Rs 4.6 crore and will take home Rs 1.5 crore for the first season after Bengaluru FC opted to retain him along with young Udanta Singh (Rs 55 lakh).
  
  The only footballer who could have dethroned him from the top was Jeje Lalpekhlua but the Chennaiyin FC striker fell short in the end. Jeje, according to sources, will be richer by Rs 1.4 crore this season, which includes Rs 10 lakh as bonus at the end of his first year contract.
  
  Jeje’s three year deal with Chennaiyin FC is worth Rs 4.3 crore, inclusive of bonuses.
  
  Kerala Blasters were not far behind with their spending this season; the Sachin Tendulkar co-owned franchise were forced to break the bank as they managed to retain Sandesh Jhingan and CK Vineeth, though at a huge cost. While Jhingan is now quite easily the best-paid defender in Indian football with an annual earning of Rs 1.2 crore – unless topped by Anas Edathodika whose asking price this season is known to be more – CK Vineeth will pocket a cool Rs 1 crore.
  
  Goalkeepers have been in high demand this season. This year, the number of foreign players allowed in the starting eleven for ISL has come down from six to five, and not many clubs find it worth wasting one of their slots on a foreign goalkeeper. The biggest beneficiary of this thinking has been Amrinder Singh, who has been retained by Mumbai City for Rs 1.2 crore. According to sources, Amrinder was offered a lucrative contract by Bengaluru FC too, prompting Mumbai City to offer the goalkeeper a substantial hike.
  
  Karanjit Singh (Rs 70 lakh with Chennaiyin FC) and Debjit Majumder (Rs 60 lakh with Atletico de Kolkata) have also laughed their way to the bank as clubs are willing to shell out fortunes for the one guarding their goal.
  
  Even a young goalkeeper like Vishal Kaith will pocket Rs 25 lakh this season, while Laxmikant Kattimani has settled for a Rs 40 lakh contract, choosing to continue with FC Goa for the fourth successive year.
  
  
  CROREPATI FOOTBALLERS
  
  Sunil Chhetri: Rs 1.5 crore
  
  Jeje Lalpekhlua: Rs 1.3 crore
  
  Amrinder Singh: Rs 1.2 crore
  
  Sandesh Jhingan: Rs 1.2 crore
  
  CK Vineeth: Rs 1 crore
  
  
  
  
  
  
