GREATER NOIDA: Six persons were arrested after a clash between a group of workers and security guards over layoff of employees on the premises of Chinese mobile maker Vivo at Tech Zone in Ecotech 1,  , on Tuesday. 

 The arrested men have been identified as Nakul, Yashpal, Bhupendra, Pushpendra, Somdev and  . They were picked up from the company premises for their alleged involvement in vandalism. The police are also scanning the footage of CCTV cameras to identify more suspects.
 
 On Wednesday, the management decided to keep the campus shut and asked the workers not to report for duty. “The company management said they were assessing the losses and busy in maintainance work. They told us not to report for work on Wednesday,” said an employee, requesting anonymity.
 
 The protesters alleged Vivo had abruptly terminated the services of nearly 500 workers in the past two months. On Tuesday evening, the protest started when the management decided to layoff 50 more workers.
 
 However, sources said that the matter escalated due to ‘rumours’ as some workers misinformed others that there was ‘mass termination’ and many would be sacked. “Believing the information, the employees stopped their work, and started gathering inside the premises. They soon started raising slogans against the company management. The officials tried to pacify them but they did not listen,” said an official.
 
 The workers then vandalised the company premises and also broke some equipment and fled with some mobile phones. Nishank Sharma, CO II, Greater Noida, said the company management has registered an FIR against unknown persons for rioting, intentional insult with intent to breach of peace and also for criminal intimidation under Section 147, 148, 504 and 506 of  . “The police team conducted a search at the company premises and arrested six persons. The accused were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” he said. Police said the workers have not filed any complaint against the company management.
 
