GANDHINAGAR: With   just two months away, the state government, on Thursday, invited six religious and social organizations of Patidars to discuss demands raised by   (PAAS), and its leader, Hardik Patel. The   did not invite PAAS or any other group involved in the quota stir, like Sardar Patel Group (SPG).

 Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister, said, “The meeting with Patidar religious and social organizations was delayed due to the PM’s visit. So, the government has decided to invite six Patidar institutions, namely, Umiya Mata Sanstha, Unjha, Khodaldham, Rajkot, Sidsar Umiya Mata trust, Vikshwa Umiya Foundation, Ahmedabad, Samasta Patidar Samaj, Surat, Sardar Dham Ahmedabad and others.”
 
 Giving reasons for the meeting, Patel said, “Hardik Patel had written to the religious and social institutions and the CM for discussions. The religious and social institutions may talk with PAAS and SPG and may invite them to join the discussions. The government is considering possible solutions on all four demands.”
 
 The four demands referred by the deputy CM, were raised by Hardik in a letter dated July 28 and sent to the CM. These include constitutional reservation for Patidar community, action against police officials for atrocities against Patidars, jobs and compensation for like that given in Haryana for those who died in police action, and forming a Patidar Aayog (commission).
 
 When contacted, Hardik said, “We have not been invited by the government for any discussion.”
 
 Claiming the move by the government was a ploy, Hardik said, “As elections are getting closer, it seems the government is creating gimmicks to sow confusion in the community and divert attention to save itself from political damage.”
 
 Pointing out that PAAS only wanted solutions, Hardik said, “None of the religious or social organizations invited by the government took part in the agitation for reservation. It was done by Patidar youth only. But if the organizations can convince the government to give reservation to Patidars, then we have no objection. But we will not support, if this is meant to divert attention from the issues.”
 
 
