GHAZIABAD : Moninder Singh   and   were sentenced to death on Monday in the eighth of 16 cases that have or will go to trial in the notorious   of 2005 and ’06.

 The verdict was delivered by Ghaziabad CBI court special judge Pawan Kumar Tiwari, who said the case could be classified as “rarest of rare” and that Pandher and   “had exhibited a trait which is not even found in animals and so had no right to live”.
 
 The two were found guilty of the rape and murder of Pinky Sarkar, a 20-year-old who went missing in Noida’s   village on October 5, 2006. Koli, who was sentenced to death in six of the seven other cases that went to trial before, was held guilty under sections 364 (kidnapping), 376 (rape), 302 (murder) and 201 (disappearance of evidence) of the IPC.
 
 Pandher was convicted for conspiracy. The businessman, in whose bungalow (D-5) the crimes took place, wasn’t named in the chargesheet filed by CBI in this case but was summoned during trial by the court, which made him a co-accused.
 
 A total of 19 cases were filed in the Nithari killings, to correspond with 19 murder victims. Three cases were closed for lack of evidence. Verdicts in eight more cases are to be delivered.
 
 Prior to the sentencing, CBI judge Tiwari asked Koli to say something in his defence to which an agitated Koli said “there is no witness against me”, “CBI could not prove anything against me” and that he was being “victimised”.
 
 Pandher was charged under sections 376, 302 and 201 read with section 120B. His lawyer Devraj Singh pleaded with the court for leniency, saying he was suffering from multiple ailments and had already spent eight years in jail. Pandher had also been convicted in 2009 in another Nithari case, relating to the killing of 14-year-old Rimpa Haldar. He was acquitted later by the Allahabad high court, which said there wasn’t enough evidence against him. 
 
 Speaking to TOI after the judgment, Pandher’s son Karandeep Pandher said, “The grounds under which the high court had acquitted my father in the earlier case are more or less the same in this case. So, we will appeal against the CBI court’s judgment.”
 
 Pinky’s mother Vandana Sarkar, who was present in the courtroom all through the hearing, said later, “I am relieved that both of them have been given the death sentence but will be satisfied only on the day when both are hanged.”
 
 Asked what tilted the scales against Pandher, prosecutor J P Sharma said Vandana had told the court in her statement that Koli had claimed Pandher used to tell him to get him some girls “as I cannot sleep without them” and, “after raping them, used to hand them over to Koli, asking him to do what he liked with them”.
 
 “This was the statement given in front of court by Vandana Sarkar. So the court felt he was complicit in the crime and awarded the death sentence to him. Secondly, the court found it hard to believe that while Koli was carrying out murder after murder in bungalow, Pandher had no knowledge of it,” said Sharma.
 
 Koli was sentenced to death in all eight cases tried so far but his punishment was commuted to life in the Rimpa Haldar case because of the delay in deciding on his mercy petition, which got rejected in 2013, more than two years after he had filed it.
 
 
