The Budget may bring good news to patients if proposed changes in the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, and regulations for medical devices are implemented. The FM proposed amendments in   to ensure availability of medicines at reasonable prices, and rules for medical devices to reduce costs.

 The action plan for elimination of diseases like leprosy, measles, filariasis and tuberculosis, availability of additional 1.5 lakh health and wellness centres, and increase in specialist doctors will give an impetus to country’s ailing healthcare system.
 
 Industry experts feel much more could have been done. “There is no strong thrust or focused measures to bolster the healthcare sector, apart from a mention about improving rural health infrastructure with 1.5 lakh sub centres being upgraded to health and wellness centres and setting up of two more AIIMS” Satish   chairman Dr Reddy’s said, adding some amendments have been proposed to the Drugs & Cosmetics Act to provide a fillip for generic medicines, but details need to emerge. 
 
 “The Budget has addressed nuts and bolts, and taken small steps, when it should have leapfrogged to stay ahead of the curve. Even for the healthcare sector, there are no big-ticket items which could have become a game changer”  , VC and MD Novartis India stated.
 
 Further details are awaited on changes in the Act or Medical Device Rules, as well on promoting use of generics.
 “However, the statement is too open-ended and the notification spelled out does not seemingly have any details on duty changes. We do hope the coming road map will be in sync with the government’s larger commitment of ‘Make in India’ i.e to develop manufacturing eco-system for the medical devices in the country, boosting domestic industry while ensuring healthcare security of the nation, which implies that cost of medical devices need to be lowered”, Rajiv Nath forum coordinator, Association of Indian Medical Device Industry said.
 
 The Budget also mentions that an action plan has been prepared to reduce infant mortality rate from 39 in 2014 to 28 by 2019, and maternal mortality rate from 167 in 2011-13 to 100 by 2018-2020.
 
 “The launch of   and Aadhar based health cards for senior citizens is a huge step towards digital revolution in healthcare delivery ecosystem enhancing overall patient care and experience”, Amit Mookim GM South Asia, QuintilesIMS said.
 
 The government plans to focus on closing this gap (doctor-patient) by introducing 5,000 post graduate seats every year, and the commitment to take necessary steps for structural transformation of the regulatory framework of medical education and practice in India”,  , CEO of PD   said. 
 
 
