AURANGABAD: The state government has wound up the   of the deputy inspector general (ATS) and shifted it to Mumbai, citing   to make procedures easier. 

 The  , headed by an officer of the rank of superintendent of police, which used to report to DIG ATS in Pune, will now have to report to the Mumbai office.
 
 The Aurangabad ATS office, having jurisdiction over the entire state except Mumbai region, was supervised by Pune office until the state issued a GR dated March 7.
 
 A senior ATS officer told TOI that in the era of internet, one can communicate at lightning speed, but having your immediate boss’s office at a distance of 250 km, where one can reach within about four hours, does make a difference.
 
 “The decision will not affect the functioning of ATS units, except that they will have to reach out to Mumbai instead of Pune. Due to Pune’s geographical location, it remained easily accessible for the four divisions of Konkan, western Maharashtra, Aurangabad and Nashik division,” the officer said.
 
 In the GR, the government has citied the serious surge in activities of terrorist organisations, for which the ATS way of functioning has changed. 
 
 “To oversee investigations, maintain a close vigil on the terror activities and also for coordinating with different agencies and attending high-level meetings in Delhi and Mumbai, the office of the DIG ATS Pune is being shifted to Mumbai,” says the GR.
 
 Along with other ATS units across Maharashtra, Pune too got an ATS unit headed by an officer of the rank of assistant inspector in 2007. In the following year, the strength was increased and soon Pune got the office of DIG-ATS.
 
 Considering the high number of terror-related cases, including the infamous Ellora arms haul case of 2006, being reported from Marathwada, the state, in 2007, appointed a superintendent of police (ATS) for Aurangabad and made it the headquarters for the entire state, except for Mumbai region. 
 
 --addition by asseem--
 
 There were two DIG’s in the state ATS with offices in Mumbai and Pune. The post of DIG, Mumbai was upgraded to the rank of special inspector general of police for covering Kokan range, including Nagpur, Ahmednagar and Aurangabad after IPS   was promoted to the rank of additional director general of police and appointed as police commissioner of Mumbai railways. 
 
 The post of DIG, Pune was lying vacant for quite some time, following which the state home department took a call to shift the said office to Mumbai. 
 
 The ATS will now be headed by an additional director general of police, special and deputy inspector generals of police. The ATS, Pune range, comprising Pune, Kolhapur, Solapur, Satara and Sangli districts will be now be headed by DCP Suhas Kolhe having its office at old CID premises in Pune. 
 
