Madurai: The Oil & Natural Gas Commission on Wednesday opposed grant of bail to eight people who were arrested in connection with the protest against it at Kathiramangalam village in Thanjavur recently. 

 The   argued before the Madurai bench of Madras high court that if the arrested people were allowed to be released they would join the public and intensify the agitation against its oil and gas exploration in the village. 
 
 However, senior counsel M Ajmalkhan representing the jailed protesters said that expressing dissent was the essence of democracy. After hearing both sides, justice A M Basheer Mohamed reserved his order. 
 
 The Panthanallur police in Thanjavur had arrested the protesters including T Jayaraman, D Murugan, S Santhosh, P Saminathan, K Viduthalaisudar, S Silambarasan and R Senthilkumar for the alleged offences under various sections of IPC and the Tamil Nadu Public Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act. Those arrested who are presently lodged in Trichy prison had moved bail applications before the high court bench. The ONGC also got impleaded in the case. 
 
 The counsel for the petitioners said they had raised their voices against the establishment of methane, hydrocarbon projects for which cases had been filed. The activists had been portrayed as anti-social elements. Counsel Muthu Saravanan, who submitted the counter affidavit of ONGC’s superintendent engineer AMP Nair, said that out of ONGC’s 700 wells in Tamil Nadu, 250 were producing oil and gas. Of these, 17 wells were in and around Kuthalam.
 
  The well in Kathiramangalam, drilled in 2000 and named as KUT 35, was producing approximately 38,000 scmd (standard cubic meters per day) gas and 21kt condensate per day. The gas is taken to the gas collecting station through 9.5 km-long pipes, from where it is sent to the group gathering station where the oil is segregated from the water and the waste is treated in ETP. 
 
 He said leakages would occur naturally due to erosion in pipes. Accordingly, leakages were reported in the production tubing well in May and June, which hampered the production of oil and gas from the well. 
 
 When the officials rushed to the spot, one Jayaraman prevented the officials from discharging their duty, he said. The officer also said that though some private companies were doing the same business of ONGC, there was no threat to them. “The protesters target ONGC alone because it is a public sector undertaking,” he said.
 
 The ONGC counsel said so far four cases had been registered against Jayaraman. In one case, the judicial magistrate court in Kumbakonam had granted bail with the condition that he should not enter the village. If the petitioners are released on bail, they would join public and intensify the agitation, the counsel said. 
 
 
