CHENNAI: The Australians arrived almost a week before the start of the first ODI against India at Chepauk starting September 17. It was all about preparations. And one key aspect of their preparation was to figure out a method to counter India's chinaman  .

 Australia consultant and former India cricketer   had his own plans. He brought in a 25-year-old chinaman,  , from Kerala to ensure the Aussies got a hang of facing the mystery spin during the nets session on Friday.
 
 Jiyas had impressed Sriram, an assistant coach with  , in 2015 and it helped him bag a contract with Delhi that season.
 
 The message to Jiyas from Sriram was clear. "Bowl as many variations as you can."
 
 Jiyas, who had bowled about 12 overs, was thrilled after his bowling spell against the likes of  ,Matthew Wade, Marcus Stoinis and  .
 
 "It was a dream day for me. I enjoyed bowling to them. I bowled about 12 overs and I tried all variations. I was able to beat their bats on the outside a few times but at times they whacked me. It was thrilling," Jiyas told TOI.
 
 "They were trying to read my hand. Maxwell defended as well as attacked," said Jiyas, who had bowled with half-sleeves.
 
 "But I know Kuldeep bowls mostly with full-sleeves," chuckles Jiyas.
 
 It was Sriram, Jiyas' coach in Delhi, who had asked him to come from Kerala for the nets in Chennai.
 
 "Sriram asked me to come and bowl. I came here on Thursday night. It was Sriram who saw me bowl and was impressed in 2015. He has been an excellent guide. Bowling to the Aussie batsmen was a great learning experience," he said.
 
 Jiyas had represented Kerala in U19, U22 and U25 level. Before his Delhi Daredevils stint, Jiyas was part of the Development squad of the Rajasthan Royals during 2011-2013.
 
 The likes of Stoinis and   had seen Jiyas in action during their stint with Delhi in  . And the Australian cricketers "appreciated" their work.
 
 "Adam Zampa (leg-spinner) and Faulkner appreciated me for the way I had bowled. I know Head and Stoinis as we had trainer together with Delhi. It felt great to interact with them again," added Jiyas.
 
 Jiyas, who is working hard to make it to Kerala Ranji team, is set to represent a third division team in the TNCA league this season.
 
