The 64th National Film Awards saw Malayalam cinema sweeping away some of the top honours, including Best Actress, Best Child Artiste and Best Original Screenplay.

 The choice of the awards has been applauded by film lovers as many of the actors and films which missed out on the State Awards won over the National Awards jury. Thus actress Surabhi Lakshmi won the best actress award for the film Minnaminungu, while Maheshinte Prathikaram won the Best Malayalam Film award as well as the Best Screenplay for Shyam Pushkaran. Adish Praveen won the Best Child Artiste for Kunju Daivam.
 Anil Thomas, the director of Minnaminungu, tells us, “We are really happy as we had felt that the Academy had done injustice to us at the State Film Awards.”
 
 Jury chairman Priyadarshan said that the jury had to decide between Surabhi and Aishwarya Rai-Bachchan, and Akshay Kumar and Mohanlal in the Best Actress and Actor category, respectively. Another surprise award was for Soumya Sadanandan’s documentary Chembai: My Discovery of a Legend, which got a special mention in the Non-Feature Film category.
 
 Mohanlal, who had a grand run last year, won a special jury mention for his performance in Pulimurugan, Janatha Garage and Munthirivallikal Thalirkkumbol. Priyadarshan says what earned him the award was that he put up versatile performances in two different languages – Malayalam and Telugu. Here is what the winners had to say
 
 I USED TO DREAM OF WINNING AN AWARD- SURABHI LAKSHMI
 Like every aspiring actress I too used to dream about winning an award at some point in my life. And when I got it, I got the biggest one (laughs). I am now in Salalah, Oman, for a programme and had no clue that I would win this. This award is a recognition for the hard work and dedication of the entire Minnaminungu team. We had put our heart, soul and blood into this small movie. I thank God and everyone in the team for helping me make my dream come true. :
 
 
 BEST CHILD ARTISTE: Adhish Praveen (Kunju Daivam)
 I am really excited to bag this award. The director called me after watching my performance in my debut movie, Ben. I enacted the role of Ouseppachan, who helps a chechi to get her kidney transplant done. It was interesting to act in the movie as it is about a virtuous boy. Currently I am working in Mammootty uncle’s movie Streetlights.
 
 
 Best Non-Feature Film: Chembai: My Discovery of a Legend
 I’m still not sure if I actually won the award. But I feel I already won an award when I screened the movie to the residents of the village of Chembai, where the film was shot. After the screening, they all told me they felt like Chembai had come alive.
 
 
 
 It’s a great thing to be considered even
 Awards are always an appreciation. Being a debutant director, it is a great thing for me when my movie is considered for an award, let alone win one. Even Shyam Pushkaran became an independent writer through Maheshinte Prathikaram. When we get such a recognition, our commitment and responsibility also doubles. We are looking forward to doing better films!
 — DILEESH POTHAN
  Director, Maheshinte Prathikaram
 
 Mohanlal
 It is always big whenever a Malayalam film bags an award at the National level. Many a time, awards come as a surprise. As an actor who has been working in the film industry for so many years, I am extremely glad that I won this award. This is an award for all those who have worked behind the films. It is the biggest recognition Pulimurugan has ever received. I am also happy for Peter Hein as he had always wished for an award.
 
 Regional films dominated this year: PRIYADARDSHAN, JURY CHAIRMAN
 The criteria for choosing the Best Film was the content and the making. There is an absolutely encouraging development in Marathi and Bengali cinema with filmmakers experimenting with new thoughts and projecting it effectively. In that regard, only Malayalam films could contest with these brilliant films. That’s the reason why regional languages dominated over Bollywood.
 
 For the Best Actor Award, the jury had unanimously agreed this year not to give the award for a tailor-made role. Those actors would just be a one-film wonder; they would not be able to do any other roles. So, the jury considered the body of work of the actors. And there were only two actors – Mohanlal and Akshay Kumar. Mohanlal got the jury award for his work in Malayalam and Telugu.
 
 For the Best Actress Award, more than the body of work the performance was considered. Also, there weren’t many actresses who were part of a lot of films and put up great performances. Surabhi’s only competition was Aishwarya Rai-Bachchan for Sarabjit. Surabhi clinched the award as she brilliantly performed her role of a non-glamourous Indian woman and carried the film on her shoulders. 
 
 
