NAGPUR: “Einstein dared to challenge Newton’s theories when Newton was a big name in the world of science. He was confident about the accuracy in his formulas,” said   at the   campus on Saturday. The talk on ‘A journey through Einstein’s brain’ was jointly held by the department of physics and Marathi Vidnyan Parishad.

 A retired scientist from Nasa, Moharir discussed interesting facts about Einstein’s life, his struggle and hard-working attitude. 
 
 Moharir spoke about Einstein’s fascination for science since childhood. “His father gifted him a pocket compass at the age of 5 and he marvelled at the fact that regardless of where the compass was turned, the needle always pointed north. Einstein thus demonstrated an interest in science and problem-solving even before he entered school,” he said.
 
 Einstein came up with the theory of light which suggested that it does not need a medium to travel. This obsoleted Huygens theory which said that light propagates through ‘Ether’ (hypothetical substance through which electromagnetic waves travel). “He firmly believed in his conclusions and stood by them,” said Moharir.
 
 Einstein shook the foundations of physics with the introduction of his special theory of relativity in 1905 which completely contradicted Newton’s laws of motion. His work was not approved back then. It was criticized on the grounds of being imaginary.
 
 He later came out with four sheets of analysis which he believed could solve all puzzles of universe. “Einstein was disheartened when the theory was rejected. Finally, the theory was recognized after his death and got proven just two years ago, said Moharir.
 
 Physics department head PM Gade said, “Delivering such brilliant lectures to the youth is a way of paying back to motherland. ”
 
 Minal Gupta, an M Sc student, said, “We knew about the facts but learnt them conceptually today. It was an amazing sneak peek into Einstein’s life.”
 
 Alisha Nanwani, who hosted the event, was surprised to know so many unknown stories about Einstein. “Many theories were not noticed by students through books.”
 
  I am glad that such impactful lectures are organized to make us more aware,” she said.
 
