PUNE: A   were stranded at the   for more than 12 hours after their   was cancelled due to technical reasons.

 The group, which included women and senior citizens, belonged to the city’s Jain community. They were on their way to Kathmandu in Nepal.
 
 Businessman Ravi Suresh Jain, who led the group, said they had booked the flight on IndiGo three months ago.
 
 “We reached the airport at 4am. The flight was slated to depart at 5.10am. After reaching the airport, we found out the flight had been cancelled. A Jain Sthanak (temple) in Pokhara, Nepal, was destroyed due to the 2015 earthquake. Many of us contributed money to re-build the temple. It is to be inaugurated on Saturday by dignitaries like the Prime Minister of Nepal,” Jain said. He added that the group was not informed about the reasons for the flight’s cancellation.
 
 During the time the group spent at the airport, Jain sent many messages and tweets to IndiGo, minister of state for civil aviation Jayant Sinha, Union civil aviation minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 “Some members of the group went home. However, a majority of us sat at the airport trying to find a way out with the airline staff. During the first round of talks with the airlines, they told us they will accommodate us in a flight to Delhi at 4pm but then we had to arrange the journey ahead to Kathmandu ourselves. This further got people angry. I also had a talk with MP Supriya Sule, who took up the matter,” Jain said.
 
 The group finally left for Delhi in a 7.45pm flight. An IndiGo spokesperson told TOI that a special flight to Kathmandu from Delhi has been arranged at 8am. 
 
 IndiGo, in its official statement, said, “IndiGo flight 6E 221, scheduled to depart from Nagpur to Delhi via Pune today (Friday) was cancelled due to a technical reason this morning. All passengers were immediately notified of the situation through SMS and IVR.”
 
 It further said, “The passengers twice turned down alternative flying arrangements in small groups with other airlines managed by IndiGo as they were interested in travelling together as one group.”
 
