PATNA: Rajya Sabha member   expressed his fears on Tuesday that the provisions of Bihar State Prohibition of Dowry Act could be misused in future.

 He also said CM Nitish Kumar should happily share the stage with RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat at the millennium ‘yagya’ being held at Chandwa in Bhojpur to celebrate the 1000th birth anniversary of theologian and philosopher Ramanujacharya (born 1017AD). 
 
 “CMs of several BJP-ruled and other states would come to attend the millennium ‘yagya’. He (Nitish) should also represent Bihar there,” Dr Thakur said. 
 
 Talking at length about the anti-dowry campaign, he said, “The campaign is a very good move on the part of the state government to raise people’s awareness on the issue, but the provisions of the anti-dowry Act can also be misused as it is mandatory for every bridegroom to submit the list of dowry items before official concerned in the district,” Dr Thakur said, adding that there “should be ‘jagriti’ (mass awareness programme) among people that they voluntarily resolve neither to demand nor take dowry”.
 
 Dr Thakur, who gave his mind on a wide ranging issues with which the people of the state are seized, also pitched for the lifting of ban on sand mining, noting that it had stopped all building construction activities, resulting in loss of job to construction workers.
 
 “The government should relax the rules that have bearing on the ban on sand mining, as thousands of workers engaged in mining and construction activities have been rendered jobless,” he said, adding: “The rich can bear with the situation, but the ban has hit the poor hard.”
 
 Referring to the participation of RSS chief in the ‘yagya’ at Chandwa on Wednesday, Dr Thakur said there should be no hesitation on the part of Nitish to share the dais with Bhagwat.
 
 “Why should anybody consider it wrong if CM Nitish shares the stage with the RSSS chief at Chandwa?” Dr Thakur asked and said, “The BJP is one of the several units of the RSS. If Nitishji has formed government with the BJP, he should not have any hesitation in sharing the stage with the RSS chief. There should be no fuss on it.” 
 
 The former Union minister further said, “Nitishji is ‘padhe likhe vyakti hain’ (educated and enlightened person). So is Mohan Bhagwatji. Above all, Nitishji is not a child that he will become a convert.” 
 
 
