Vidushi Swaroop, a Varanasi girl pursuing engineering from a private university in Jaipur, has made it to the top 15 of The Great Indian Laughter Challenge show that will be aired from September 30. The show will feature actor   as super judge, while comedians Zakir Khan,   and writer-actor Hussain Dalal will be seen as mentors. Before leaving for Mumbai on Friday, a visibly elated Vidushi shared her excitement with us, her tryst with stand-up comedy and recalled the moment when she met her idol   on the show.

 
 
 This second-year B.tech student is a member of her college's theatre society. “Theatre has always fascinated me.Thus, in the first-year itself, I joined the theatre society of my college. I was given a role of jamoora in one of the nukkad nataks. I didn't mind doing it.“ Vidushi added, “In fact people complimented me for my performance and that gave me the confidence. One day , a stand-up comedy competition was organized in our university . A few of my friends were planning to take part in it and I too thought of giving it a try. But many of them told me, `Arey stand-up comedy alag hota hai. Isme jamoora nahi banna hota stage pe.' I was hurt with their remarks but it didn't deter my spirits. I took part in the competition and much to everybody's surprise, I went on to win the competition. It was a befitting reply to all those people who thought I couldn't do it,“ said Vidushi.
  
  
 
 
 She added, “Then, I got in touch with Jaipur's stand-up comedy club and started performing at openmics. Constant appreciation from people boosted my morale. Through a friend of mine, I got to know that auditions for The Great Indian Laughter Challenge show are being held in Jaipur. I wanted to go there but my mother didn't approve of it. According to her, this (stand-up comedy) is all wastage of time. Well, I didn't go against my mother.“
 
 
 
 However, it seems that Vidushi was destined to do this show. She shared, “A few months ago, I went to my hometown during my semester break. Again, I got to know that auditions of the show are going on Lucknow. I tried convincing my mother again but she didn't allow me. Since I really wanted to give it a try, I lied to her and went for the auditions.
 
 I cleared the first round but was hesitant to appear for the second round. I had clearly told the team ­ who were taking auditions -­ that agar maine second round clear bhi kar liya to main third round ke liye Mumbai nahi ja paungi. So there is no point in me appearing for the second round. But the team wanted me to appear for the second round. So, one of the team mem bers spoke to my mother on phone and con vinced her to allow me to pursue my dream. Thankfully , she said `yes' this time. I cleared second round as well and went to Mum bai where out of top 47, I made it to top 15.“
 
 
 
 Vidushi, who is mostly into self-deprecating come dy, recalled the moment when she met her idol Zakir Khan for the first time. “I am his huge fan. I missed an opportunity of meeting him when he came to Jaipur for his show. So, I was extremely excited to meet him. In fact, I was so smitten by him that mujhe unke aage koi aur dikh hi nahi raha tha, not even Akshay Kumar,“ she laughingly said. In the show, the participants are divided into three teams; Vidushi is in Hussain Dalal's team. The young girl has already recorded two episodes earlier. Asked about the feedback that she has got from the celebrities, particularly Akshay Kumar, she replied, “He said that I am very raw and I can do much better if I get proper grooming. Mallika (Dua), on the other hand, loves my bubbly nature which I try to incorporate in my performance too.“ corporate in my performance too.“
 
 
 
 Though there is still time for the show to be aired, back in her college, Vidushi has already become a celebrity .“All my friends, particularly my hostel mates, are extremely excited to see me on TV . Woh abhi se mujhe star bolne lage hain. It feels nice and I hope I live up to the expectations of everybody ,“ she said.
 
 
