NEW DELHI: The recent collapse of a portion of a   building has claimed a big collateral damage - rooftop meals at restaurants in the iconic market have been banned. 

 After the cave-in at C block on February 2, the   carried out inspections for structural stability of the market's heritage buildings. It then decided to ban 21 restaurants from using the rooftop area.
 
 Restaurant owners said open-air eating did not pose a threat to the buildings.
 
 NDMC had formed a panel of experts from IIT Delhi and its own structural engineers to check for structural stability of the buildings and submit a report to the chairman within 20 days. 
 
 Senior NDMC officials claimed directions were given to remove generators and big water tankers if required, to ensure the safety of the buildings.
 
 The affected restaurants include Warehouse Cafe, The Vault Cafe, My Bar HQ, Kinbuck-2, Kitchen Bar, Lord of the Drinks, Open House Cafe, Jungle Jamboree, Boombox Cafe, Farzi Cafe, House of Commons, Hotel Palace Heights, Office Canteen Bar, Luggage Room, Cafe OMG, Unplugged Courtyard, Barbeque Nation, TC Bar & Restaurant, Teddy Boy Restaurant and The Niche Restaurant.
 
 Senior officials from NDMC claimed that a few months ago the restaurants were issued a notice not to use the rooftop area as it violated norms. The chief architect office had sent show-cause notices to these restaurants for "misuse of premises beyond sanction" under Sections 250 and 252 of the NDMC Act 1994.
 
 "According to the norms, use of terrace and balconies in heritage buildings is barred for any kind of commercial activity. The traders association has also written several times to NDMC to stop issuing licence to new eateries as it is increasing the load on the heritage building," said a senior NDMC official.
 
 Restaurant owners are agitated by the move claiming that running rooftop restaurants has nothing to do with the building collapse and NDMC is trying to choke their business. If needed, they will protest against the move, the owners said.
 
 Priyank Sukhija, a member of the Connaught Place restaurant association pointed out that all the restaurant owners were paying house tax for the commercial use of terraces and open area.
 
 "We have paid house taxes three months ago for the area we are using and now they have slapped this ban. NDMC is trying to choke our business by banning vehicles and rooftop restaurants even though we pay our taxes religiously," said Sukhija.
 
 Gaurav, owner of Kinbuck-2 restaurant said that people prefer to use the rooftop area during certain seasons. In March, most customers insist that they should get a table in the rooftop.
 
