AJMER:   (RSS) has screened and evaluated three-year work of Raje government for about five hours on Tuesday on the issue of work done by BJP ruled states in last three years. On Tuesday morning, Raje came to attend the Shintan Shivir orgainzed at Adarsh Vidhya Niketan School on Pushkar road. For five long hours, RSS executives along with the chief minister had a closed door meeting post which Raje flown back to Jaipur.

 According to sources, the meeting was held in a hall on the second floor of the school presided over by Sir   where all executives of organization including the chief minister sat on the floor. No one, including state ministers and BJP MLAs, was allowed to enter the school except sate education minister Vasudev Devnani who is also a member of RSS.
 
 Raje reached the venue of Chintan Shivir at about 8.30 in morning and stayed there till 1.30 in afternoon. District administration and BJP local body made arrangements at various places of the city to welcome the chief minister but all of them had to wait for long as Raje showed no interest in these arrangements. In this two-day camp of RSS, homer minister   attended the briefing On Monday but as Kataria is a RSS member, he submitted his report to the executive body of RSS.
 
 Internal sources said that Raje submitted the report card on the performance of her government for last three year and also put a list of works done by the government. “This is a new exercise initiated by BJP and RSS top leaders to evaluate performance of the states where BJP is in power,” said an internal source. He added that through this exercise, the committee will give report to top leaders about the functioning and work of state government.
 
 But other sources added that committee under Bhiyaji Joshi, who is second in command of RSS, is more interested to know the implementation of RSS ideology through government in which education and banning religion conversion are main issues. The committee has also asked the government to appoint RSS people in major posts.
 
 According to another source, relation between RSS-BJP and communication between RSS and state government are also being looked at under the exercise.
 
 “This exercise has been started as a preparation for upcoming elections in the state after two years and therefore, new BJP team will be announced in near future to make the BJP-RSS bond permanent,” added an internal source.
 
 Chintan Shivir is important as the committee of RSS will file their reports to BJP top leaders to decide the functioning of Vasundhra Raje government including the coordination between state government and RSS. Internal source said that there will be a change in BJP state body soon after discussing the report with top leaders of RSS and BJP.
 
