AGRA: With elections in   slated for February, long before harvest season begins towards the end of March,   will find time to participate both in political meetings and to take up their issues with the candidates. Political parties too have framed special strategies to woo this large chunk of voters. Villages are expected to witness crowded ‘chaupals’.
 
  The multi-phase elections will begin with notification for the first phase on January 17 and end with voting in phase 7 on March 8, coinciding with a period when farmers have some time on their hands. “This season wheat has been sown in around 1.24 hectares alone in Agra district and potato in 79 hectares. Harvesting of mustard crop will take place on 30 hectares. Farmers will start harvesting potatoes from around February 25, followed by wheat and mustard in March,” said deputy director of agriculture, K N Rai.
  
  Shyam Singh Chahar, district head of   said, “Farms in Agra and nearby districts are covered with crops of wheat, potato and mustard. Framers will not be having much to do on the fields till first phase of voting on February 11. Farmers will be discussing their issues with the candidates and mark their presence in election rallies and political meetings.”
  
  Farmer Manvendra Singh of Kheragarh block said, “It is after a long time that the election schedule is suitable for farmers. During election campaign days, we will have time to listen and interact with candidates and ask them what they are going to do for agricultural development and welfare of farmers.”
  
  This time party workers and candidates will not have to make the round of farms to meet cultivators and seek their vote. During the day, farmers will be either at home or in public places in villages.
  
  BJP district president Shyam Bhadoriya said, “The party in Agra has been in continuous interaction with farmers. Our wing, the BJP Kisan Morcha, has been helping farmers in their time of need. Ahead of elections we are going to organize special chaupals and interact with farmers around bonfires. We will remind farmers of the pro-agriculture initiatives of the central government and note down their grievances.”
  
    district head Pramod Raina said, “We will make farmers aware of the Centre’s neglect and farlse promises by the state government. In recent seasons farmers in the region have faced major losses due to harsh weather but the government has not provided any help. Through open meetings the party’s plans for welfare of farmers will be conveyed throughout the district.”
  
  district president Dushyant Sharma said, “Party workers are in regular touch with farmers. The Centre’s unplanned demonetisation has hit farmers the most. Once votes to power, the Congress will completely waive all pending debt, reduce electricity bills by half and enact other initiatives to relieve the burden on them. Special teams have been constituted at the district level to visit different villages and convey the party’s vision for the welfare of farmers.”
