

 
 
 The large size of BHU is its strength as well as weakness. Almost 1 lakh people are present on campus at any given time. It has about 90 hostels. I don’t say there are no problems but they are addressed keeping in mind the University Act and the resources. 
 
 
 
 Politicisation of universities is an issue of concern. Universities are places for generation of knowledge and this is possible only when there is opportunity to express. But this cannot be restricted to a few and can be preserved only with mutual respect.
 
 
 
 I am shocked to hear I was with the PM. This is pure vilification. I did not meet the PM, nor was I part of his roadshow, or present at Kash Vishwanath Temple. If anybody can present evidence, I will face any punishment. 
 
 
 
 Yes, I have been associated with the Sangh. But now I am   of a university and my job is to head it, not to inspire politics. People say I am a ‘BJP appointee’. They don’t know how VCs are appointed. If I am a ‘BJP appointee’, why were there no questions about ‘Congress appointees’? Those who ruled for 60 years are now troubled by being out of power for just 3 years.
 
 
 
 RSS ‘Shakas’ have operated on BHU campus since Pt Malviya’s time. If these were wrong, why were they not stopped by earlier so-called Congress vice chancellors? So, why am I expected to? There used to be an office of RSS on the BHU campus built during Malviyaji’s time, but demolished during Emergency. I did not rebuild it. At Shakhas, people come to exercise, not for political activities. Someone wanted a debate on Godse versus Gandhi on campus and I didn’t allow.
 
 
 
 It’s wrong to say any such rules were made during my term. No student or faculty, male or female, is allowed to stage sit-in on campus. The charge that mobile and internet access is available only to boys is ridiculous. There are deadlines for girls and boys in hostels but relaxation is available to both. In hostel messes students decide what they cook and eat, vegetarian or non-veg. I have opened admissions for women to arts and social sciences programmes.
 
 
