PATNA: The state government’s ambitious Loknayak Ganga Path, popularly known as Ganga driveway, is unlikely to meet 2017 deadline due to delay in land acquisition and other issues. Senior Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited (BSRDCL) officials said the project would be completed by December 2019 as the construction firm has requested for extension of deadline.

 CM Nitish Kumar had laid the foundation stone for the 23.5km expressway project on October 11, 2013 at Digha ghat. The BSRDCL had awarded the construction work to Hyderabad-based firm Navayuga Engineering Company Limited. Last year, the firm had alleged threat from extortionists, prompting former deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav to visit the site. Tejashwi had threatened action against the firm if it failed to substantiate its allegation.
 
 Sources said the project has been facing mining and land acquisition issues. So far, the project has witnessed just 20% progress. Delay in land acquisition has turned out to be the biggest hurdle. Of 530 acres required for the project, 57 acres of private land and 93 acres of government land are under litigation.
 
 “The government has allotted Rs 390 crore for land acquisition and utility shifting out of the total budget of Rs 3,160 crore. Other than the conflict of title with litigated land, no other factor is responsible for the delay. The state government is trying hard to resolve the problems,” said a senior BSRDCL official.
 
 To meet the construction expenditure of the mega project, the government had allotted Rs 2,770 crore. After cabinet approval, Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO) provided the state government a loan of Rs 2,000 crore. The rest of the fund, which amounts to Rs 1,160 crore, was raised from state resources. The state government is supposed to pay back HUDCO’s loan at a floating interest of 10.75% after 16 years of the project completion. However, if sources are to be believed, the delay in land acquisition could escalate the project cost to Rs 3,500 crore. 
 
 The expressway is touted to reduce the travel time between Digha ghat and Didarganj from two hours to 20 minutes besides easing traffic in eastern and western parts of the state capital. 
 
 
