On Thursday, a raging fire broke out on the banks of the  , yet again. This was the third fire in just one month caused by the burning of garbage dumped illegally near the lake. The biggest casualty of such fires is the fragile ecosystem of the newly-revived lake, lament environmental activists, who were instrumental in resuscitating the lake last year. “Garbage burning has become a serious threat to the 150 species of birds, reptiles and aquatic and plant life that thrives in and around the lake. The people living nearby are still dumping trash here unmindfully. This lake is not even in the list of Pollution Control Board and our pleas to the authorities have only fallen on deaf ears,” shares a concerned Madhulika Choudhary, who runs a self-funded eco-group called   that heralded the lake’s rejuvenation project undertaken in 2016. 

 
 
 The problem is the apathetic attitude of the residents of the nearby   who are ‘literally’ adding fuel to the fire says Neeraj Singh, a member of the planning and management team of the group. “Before we started working on reviving the lake, it was a garbage dumping yard for the entire Neknampur village; it still is.
 Most people staying nearby are unaware that there is a water body in the neighbourhood,” says Neeraj Singh, a member of the planning and management team of the group.
 “When we called the Panchayat heads to apprise them about the issue, they resented saying the fire must have started accidentally,” says Madhulika adding, “We are sure that the fire was caused by the garbage that was burned as that’s easier than transporting it.”
 
 
 
 Members of the eco-group are saddened as they have an emotional connection with the lake. After having worked to restore the eco-system on its banks since July, 2016, such instances would but obviously make them feel disheartened.
 Unregulated development is what caused the deterioration of the lake, which used to be a fresh water source until recently, says  , President of the Welfare Association of the area. “Till 2002, this was a fresh water lake. The locals would visit this place for a breather. But as real estate began to develop around the lake, it was converted into a dumpyard, filled with sewage and water hyacinth,” explains Sitaram, adding, “After 6 pm one cannot even stand outside as mosquitoes start biting. Cases of dengue and chicken guinea have increased too.” 
 It was in July last year that volunteers of Dhruvansh undertook restoration of the lake. “Along with the support of about 200 denizens we cleaned the bund near the water body. With the help of students from 11 schools and two colleges near by we planted 3000 saplings of 12 different varieties on the bund of the lake. And soon, the environment around the lake began to improve,” says Madhulika.
 Thanks to the tree plantation drive and the fencing on one side of the shoreline, an array of bird species like the rare Eurasian wryneck, sparrows, herons, egret, ibis, owl and snakes have returned to the lake. 
 
 
 
 With the aim to protect the biodiversity around the lake, the activists have been requesting the authorities to mark the area around the Neknampur lake as a biodiversity and archeological heritage site. Suggestions to erect fences circling the area to thwart encroachment were also proposed, but all in vain. “We started using lake water to water the saplings. But with summer approaching we are desperate for support to water and protect saplings and lake. Only the   Commissioner responds to us. While the Lake Authority promises us a lot of things, the GHMC is the hardest to reach. The biggest challenge is to constantly run after them and get them to deliver on their promises,” laments Madhulika, adding, “People have started stealing our saplings. Sometimes, villagers also end up burning our saplings along with dry grass. Trucks plying on the bund crushed many pythons and monitor lizards, which are protected species.” 
 The authorities, on the other hand, seem to be only too happy to pass the buck. 
 HMDA Commissioner T Chiranjeevulu confirmed being aware of the restoration efforts undertaken. “In the past we have extended our support by providing   (DUC) machines to them. So far, we haven’t received any formal request from the NGO asking for help. And if we do, we are ready to help them,” he said. 
 
 
 
 
 
