CHENNAI: Invoke Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) provisions against  's government doctors who have been on strike for more than a fortnight now, said a vacation bench of the Madras high court on Friday.

 Slamming the striking government doctors for their lack of faith in the judicial system or governmental efforts, the bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and   said, “You explain the circumstances and the fact that the issue is before the court.As a last resort, you take action in accordance with law.“
 
 Hours after the veiled warning, government doctors' associations called off their mass casual leave programme scheduled for this weekend, but said the ongoing protests would continue. “After the high court's observation and the state health department's assurance, we have decided not to go on leave en masse,“ said Dr  , state president of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors' Association. “But the dharna, fasting and other demonstrations will continue on relay mode after doctors complete their shifts,“ he added.
 
 Health secretary   held a meeting with the striking doctors on Friday night and appealed to them to not let their agitation affect patients. The doctors are protesting a single judge order dated April 17, doing away with the manner in which 50% of government quota seats in PG medical courses being reserved for in-service candidates and incentive marks being awarded. The issue went before a division bench, and was referred to a third judge after the bench delivered a split verdict.
 
 On Friday morning, when a PIL petitioner highlighted the issue of deferred elective surgeries and other healthcare to patients, the bench summoned health secretary J Radhakrishnan and other officials to offer explanation in this regard.
 
 When the health secretary, accompanied by the entire top brass of the state health education as well as services appeared at 2.15pm, the bench referred to media reports and said striking doctors had hijacked the medical services.
 
 To this, Radhakrishnan said only a section of doctors were on strike and added that more than 17,000 doctors were working, and 1,500 deliveries were attended to. More than 4 lakh outpatients and 50,000 in patients had been attended to, he said.
 
 When the judge asked the officer what had they done with regard to postgraduate medical course admissions issue, he said the state Act sent to the Centre had not yet been rejected. Top officers and minister had been personally pursuing it, he said.
 
 The judges, on their part, said government hospitals were rendering yeoman services and that the strike should not cause any dent to the image, said they could take judicial note of the strike which had been continuing for more than two weeks.
 
 Radhakrishnan said they had created a 24X7 cell to monitor the issue and that senior doctors and administrators were at it. A life lost cannot be retrieved, the judges said, adding that if treatment is not given in time, the golden hour might be lost. Doctors cannot conduct themselves like trade union leaders, he said.
 
 
