KOCHI: With KMB Getting A Permanent Venue, The Organizers Are Hoping To Experiment With The Biennale Format In Areas Like Music And Literature.

 The port city may host more biennales in the near future with the state government considering a proposal to experiment with thematic biannual festivals on the lines of the   (KMB).
 
 While the art Biennale would continue as the signature event to be held every two years, the   is exploring the possibility of extending the format to areas like music, architecture, literature or even science utilising the time in between.
 
 “The possibilities are endless. The idea is to have a platform where people can come together, not only to exhibit their works but to express concepts, concerns and vision of the world they inhabit,“ said  , one of the founder trustees of KMB.
 
 Selection of Kochi as the venue for Biennale, Riyas said, has changed the cultural economy of the state. “It now plays the goodwill ambassador for the entire nation and generates tourism revenue for Kerala. Over the years, what we found out was that the   region with its centuries of multi-cultural heritage has untapped cultural and tourism potential similar to Venice. We have just tapped into what was lying latent for many years,'' he said. Music director Alphons Joseph, who has been work ing on the idea of a music Biennale along with Shelton Pinheiro, said it holds great potential.
 
 “The prospects are so great that it will be one-of-a-kind event in the world if materialized. Apart from being an exhibition of musical cultures from across the world, it could be more research-based and include collaborations with indigenous world musical traditions,“ Alphons said.
 
 He had pitched the idea to A R Rahman and the music maestro had thought of it as an exceptional one, said Alphons.
 
 But the bigger challenge for Biennale organizers, according to Komu, would be to take into confidence people who are opposed to the Biennale, especially some Muslim organisations vociferous in the their protest against KMB being accorded a permanent venue at Aspinwall House by the state government.
 
 “It is a fact that many people had lost jobs here after warehouses closed down. The construction of Vallarpadam international terminal made matters worse as it resulted in further loss of jobs. There is unemployment and a sense of loss of identity among the youth. There are few others who feel that Biennale will destroy culture as will bring in anarchy , which is totally baseless,'' Komu said. But in the long run these concerns need to be addressed, he added. “The only way to do this is by involving the locals, providing meaningful jobs and allowing them to understand contemporary art and culture,'' he said.
 
 If such an effective integration of the venture with the people of the land transpires, the endeavour will provide a boost for the tourism in the state.
 
 “If the scope of the format is extended it will certainly bring in more tourists from across the world,“ said Balakiran P, director, Kerala Tourism.
 
