NEW DELHI: Uttar Pradesh chief minister   said on Friday that the 
  on July 12 was a powerful explosive substance and claimed there may be a "terror conspiracy" afoot.

 Citing a forensic report which confirmed that the white powder was the extremely powerful plastic explosive 
  , Yogi Adityanath called the incident a major security lapse and demanded an   ( ) probe into the matter.
 
 
 
 
 "This is  , a highly explosive substance was found in the Assembly. Action must be taken against those involved. How can we allow anyone to compromise the security of 403 MLAs? NIA must investigate this," the chief minister said in the state Assembly on Friday.
 
 It is a "dangerous tendency that the security of the Assembly has been breached when the House is in session," CM Yogi said. "So far the government was worried about security outside the Assembly. Now, this has become a more serious matter," he said.
 
 
 
 
 "Strong security system must be established as this could be a terror conspiracy," he said.
 
 Earlier, Yogi Adityanath had called a high level meeting to review the security measures in the Assembly in light of Thursday's incident. He told all MLAs present in the Assembly that everyone needs to be cautious and make sure to follow security guidelines. He also said that police should carry out background checks for all workers in the state assembly.
 
 "Everyone needs to be cautious related to security matters. Police verification needs to be done for workers in Assembly... Security guidelines must be issued and everyone must follow them," Yogi said.
 
 
 
 
 60 grams of suspicious white powder was found in the   close to the seat of the Leader of the Opposition Ram Govind Choudhry during a routine security sweep on Thursday. As soon as the material was found, security officials reached the Assembly and recovered it, before sending it to a forensic lab for analysis.
 
 Additional security has been deployed in and around the Assembly premises in Lucknow.
 
 The   session began earlier this week, in which the new BJP government led by Yogi Adityanath presented its first budget. 
 
 
 
 
 (With inputs from agencies)
 
