Noida: In an effort to speed up the delivery of nearly 30,000 homes of Jaypee Wish Town, the senior superintendent of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, Dharmendra Singh has called a meeting of the builders and homebuyers at the SSP office in Surajpur on April 15. 

 According to the SSP, the builders have verbally committed to commence the construction within a month. “We met the buyers this morning and then spoke to Jaypee management. They have assured that the constructions will commence at Wish Town site within a month. We are also ready to be part of the next builder-buyer interaction,” Dharmendra Singh told TOI. The buyers had met the senior cop to follow up on over 500 complaints filed by Wish Town buyers in August 2016.
 
 In a similar response, CEO, Noida Authority, Deepak Agarwal stated that a meeting with Jaypee group management will be held soon. “We have initiated the process of talks between builders and buyers wherever there are issues. We will convene a meeting with Jaypee soon,” Agarwal told TOI.
 
 Earler on Monday, over 250 people assembled at the SSP office, Surajpur with placards and raised slogans against the builders. Following this, they met SSP Dharmendra Singh and district magistrate NP Singh. The buyers later converged at the Noida Authority office. There they started a day-long protest.
 
 In fact, the Wish Town buyers started their protest seeking delivery of apartments on Saturday itself when they assembled at the builder’s Sector 128 office. On Sunday, they met again to work on a plan to place their demands before the district administration. The next meeting, scheduled on Saturday, is expected to provide some clarity to the protesting buyers.
 
 “We are running from pillar to post to get some response to our queries. It has been very difficult to reach out to the builders as there is no communication from their end. We hope that with an intervention from the police, we will finally gain some insight into the 30,000 pending houses,” Pramod Kumar, a Wish Town buyer, who participated in the meetings, said.
 
 Started in 2008, Jaypee Wish Town is a 1,200-acre project in Sector 128, comprising 35,000 apartments and 25 different societies. The buildings are in various stages of completion. Of the 35,000 apartments, only 5,000 have got occupancy certificates.
 
 There are 25 apartments at Wish Town in Sector 128. The prices range from mid-range to premium. All the apartments were sold between 2009 and 2011.
 
 The builders did not respond to tweets and phone calls seeking comments on the issue.
 
 
