NEW DELHI: You may say “thank God it’s Thursday” but making last-minute travel plans for this weekend could blow a big hole in your pocket. Domestic airfares have shot through the roof — almost doubled on some routes. Indians now book tickets well in advance, leaving very few seats for last-minute sales that go for the highest fare levels. This week began with Tuesday off in places like UP for Hanuman Jayanti and will sign off with  .

 As a result, buying tickets now for flying out Thursday evening and returning Sunday night or early Monday morning means paying skyhigh fares. Aarti Saxena, a Ghaziabad-based homemaker, wanted to travel to Bengaluru to meet her brother. “Buying a return even on low cost carriers is costing up to Rs 29-30,000. I had to drop my plan of going,” she said. Similarly, flying from Delhi to Mumbai on Thursday night and returning on Sunday night will cost anywhere up to Rs 20,000.
 
 Yatra president Sharat Dhall said: “The spike can be attributed mostly to increase in load factors and advance purchasing of the tickets, leading to few seats left for last minute travel.” Amod Thatte of SOTC Travel said: “The demand has been at its peak and this has led to a hike in airfares of 10-15%. However this has not affected travellers who have planned and booked with us well in advance.”
 
 “Everyone likes to bask in the glory of India being the fastest growing   market but they are not paying enough attention to infrastructure. Mumbai is choked and Navi Mumbai airport is nowhere on the radar for over a decade. Greater Noida airport is also being spoken of for the same time. Infrastructure has to be made available where the demand is. Passengers pay a high price in form of steep domestic fares in peak demand times due to big airports’ inability to accommodate more flights when demand peaks,” fumed an airline official.
 
  find it hard to get slots for additional flights at the choked metro airports, especially Delhi and Mumbai with the latter having no spare slots now. India last year saw almost 10 crore flying within the country, or an average of 83 lakh a month.
 
 On the other hand, international fares have not risen as overseas trips are usually not a last-minute affair. “(International) fares this summer have been cheaper compared to the same period last year. The key factor behind this is the increase in capacity from India thereby leading to increased competition amongst airlines,” said John Nair, head of Cox & Kings’ business travel.
 
 
