LUCKNOW: With Amita Sinh, the wife of Congress's UP campaign committee chief Sanjay Sinh, insisting on contesting the UP polls from Amethi, the assembly constituency seems to be headed towards a 'rani versus rani' battle for ballot.

 There is a twist in this Battle Royale, though. Since Samajwadi Party has already declared Gayatri Prajapati as its SP candidate from the seat, and the SP and Congress are in a pre-poll alliance in UP, Amita may only contest as an independent from the assembly seat, with outside support from the Congress, but without its symbol. TOI made several attempts to reach Amita for a confirmation, but she did not respond.
 
 Congress insiders, however, told TOI that the 'friendly fight' between the SP and Congress might, in fact, benefit both the alliance partners.
 
 On one hand, while this will pacify Amita, who is eager to contest against BJP's Garima Sinh', Sanjay Sinh's first wife, her candida ture will also help Congress garner a clutch of upper caste Thakur and Brahmin votes that could elude Gayatri Prajapati, the Dalit minister in Akhilesh Yadav's cabinet. Congress is pushing for the Amethi seat. But even if Amita Sinh contests as an independent the SP-Congress combine will dent the BJP's votes in this constituency,“ a Congress leader from Amethi said. Incidentally, the BJP is also facing rebellion on the Amethi seat, with local leader Ashish Shukla edged out to accommodate Rani Garima Sinh.
 
 At several public functions in Amethi over the last few years, Amita has maintained, she will contest the Amethi assembly seat regardless of whether she gets the Congress's support or not. While Congress had been pushing for total control in the Gandhi pocketboroughs of Amethi and Rae Bareli, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav refused to part with any more than five seats in the two assembly seats.
 
 To show he is unwilling to negotiate, Akhilesh also declared two SP candidates in Amethi district -Gayatri Prajapati in Amethi and Rakesh Pratap Singh from Gauriganj -along with three candidates in Rae Bareli.
 
 During the launch of his poll campaign in Sultanpur (adjoining Amethi) on January 24, Akhilesh made a strong pitch for Prajapati, who accompanied him on the stage. Akhilesh, during his address, said that Prajapati was contesting from an important seat and that the local population should not only help him win, but also lend their support to other SP and Congress candidates in the region.
 
