Coimbatore: As Coimbatore breached the normal south west rainfall level with incessant rains on Saturday and Sunday, the collector launched a helpline - 1077 - for all residents to complain about waterlogged areas.

 Tamil Nadu Agricultural University officials said the average annual rainfall for Coimbatore as per the data collected in the past 10 years is 324mm. But in the south-west monsoon alone the city has received 380mm of rain. The north-east monsoon will start in October and TNAU has predicted excess rainfall even this year during the coming monsoon. “We will hold a meeting on Monday at 11 am to discuss the rainfall status,” said an official.
 
 This helpline number can be used by all residents across Coimbatore district for waterlogging issues. Automatic pumps, generator sets, oil engines, sullage lorries and other equipment are ready to work in all the areas. Fire and rescue services personnel are also on alert. Several private companies and NGOs have come forward to lend a hand to officials to help people in low-lying waterlogged areas. More than 100 flood relief centres were ready to occupy in case of emergencies. Dispensaries and medical teams were also ready. Many trains were delayed on Sunday due to heavy rain.
 
 Several streets in the city are under water. Corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan said public works department engineers were in charge of the sluice gates of all the lakes and canals in the city. “We are in constant touch with the officials and are assessing the situation. Corporation engineers have been working to ensure that houses and roads in the city do not get flooded,” said Vijayakarthikeyan.
 
 Major low-lying areas in the city such as Lanka Corner, Avinashi   bridge under-pass, Kalishwara Mill Road railway underpass and Thillai Nagar that were flooded by rain on Saturday night were cleared. Officials said traffic was normal, and water was immediately pumped out of these areas. The Kikani underpass and Sivanandha Colony railway under-pass were also cleaned and water was pumped out. “There were some complaints of channel blockage near SIHS colony and corporation officials attended to it immediately,” said an engineer.
 
 Senior engineers said rain is likely to continue until Monday evening and similar rainfall is expected periodically until Diwali.
 
 
