AHMEDABAD: One hour of sudden rain left one person dead and at least seven injured in   town of   district on Wednesday evening. The deceased was identified as sixty-year-old Chhapan Patni.

  After an overcast day, heavy rains pounded the town at around 7.15pm and continued for at least an hour. A man standing near the district panchayat office died when a tree uprooted by the strong winds fell on him. Seven others were also injured in the accident, sources in the district disaster management cell told TOI. 
 
 Several low-lying areas, like Bijeshwar Colony and the main market of the town were waterlogged. Electricity supply was also hit, leaving people in the dark for many hours. The fire brigade received several calls about trees getting uprooted by wind, while a large hoarding also came crashing down, causing panic on a busy road.
 
 Meteorologists said the rain was due to “pre-monsoon thunderstorm activity”.
 
 This sudden heavy shower caused huge losses to wheat growers. Large quantities of wheat lying in the open at the market were instantly rendered useless. The wet spell, however, came as respite to people reeling from the blistering heat.
 
 Jayanta Sarkar, director, India Meteorological Department, Gujarat, described it as a  . The wind pattern has changed from south westerly to westerly which brings with it moisture from the Arabian Sea.
 
 Sarkar said the   had forecast thunderstorms in the Gujarat region, including the northern and central parts of the state.
 
 About if rainfall would occur on Thursday, Sarkar said the chance was always there.
 
 Meanwhile, Ahmedabad was sweltering as the mercury rose to 39.2°C, 1.2 degrees above normal. The minimum temperature in the city was 25.4°C, 3.4 degress above normal. Relative humidity in the city ranged between 37% and 73% on Wednesday.
 
 The Saurashtra region continued to witness a hot spell, with three towns crossing the 40°C mark on Wednesday. Surendranagar was the hottest town in the state at 41°C, followed by Rajkot and Amreli at 40.9°C and 40.6°C, respectively.
 
