AHMEDABAD: A   has directed the   (WR) to pay   of four from   after they missed the train due to  .

 The family of Anand-based   missed the train to Kerala in 2014 due to a wrong message on the electronic display board about the location of their coach to be boarded at Anand railway station.
 
 The Nair family was headed to Kerala to attend a wedding at Chengnnur. Since they missed the train due to the railway administration's fault and were forced to fly instead, the consumer court directed WR to reimburse the airfare of Rs 32,628. Court also asked WR to pay Rs 1,000 taxi fare from Anand to Ahmedabad airport along with Rs 10,000 compensation towards harassment and litigation cost.
 
 The Nair family had reserved four berths in AC two-tier coach in Veraval-Trivandrum Express on May 29, 2014. The family got confused after a display board showed that the coach would be at 'extreme rear side' of the train. But when the train arrived, the coach was way ahead in the front. This incorrect information led to a mad scramble to board the train by crossing 12 coaches in a short span of two minutes -- the official halt time at Anand railway station. While men managed to board the train, the elderly women could not make it.
 
 Once inside the train, Nair pulled alarm chain for women to get on the train but was immediately dragged down by the Railway Protection Force and put in lockup. Cops refused to accept their explanation and the family missed the train. Finally, after the ordeal was over at the station, they were forced to shell out a hefty amount to reach Kerala by air.
 
 Nair was later arrested in the chain pulling case. A court acquitted him in the case with observation that the chain pulling was justified and the problem for the Nair family arose because of fault on part of railway administration.
 
 Nair moved the Anand District Consumer Dispute Redressal Forum, which also concluded that the wrong message on display board was railway's fault and a senior citizen cannot drag luggage through 12 coaches in just two minutes. It also held the RPF responsible for damaging passenger's reputation by dragging him down the coach.
 
