Bhopal: Minister for higher education Jaibhan Singh Pawaiya lost his cool on Monday after he saw the word ‘Shrimant’ inscribed on a plaque before the name of Congress MP Jyotiraditya Scindia during the inauguration of a power sub-station in Ashoknagar district. 

 Pawaiya, known to be a staunch critic of the Gwalior‘s Scindia royalty, is the minister in-charge of Ashoknagar district. He even took a dig at Jyotiraditya’s aunt Yashodhara Raje who is his cabinet colleague in thge Shivraj Singh ministry by saying, “In a democracy, a maharani (queen) and a mahatrani (sweeper) are the same because people are king.” 
 
 Seven years ago, the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led government had passed a notification asking ‘Shrimant’ be added as prefix to Yashodhara’s name but later withdrew it.
 
 Pawaiya had gone to inaugurate a power sub-station under the Gram Jyoti Yojana in Bahadurpur. However, he was enraged the moment the curtain was removed from the plaque after seeing Gwalior ‘maharaja’ and Congress chief whip in the Lok Sabha Jyotiraditya’s name preceded by ‘Shrimant’, a title traditionally used to address Maratha royals.
 
 “Has the power company and its officials become slaves?” the minister asked. “Seventy years after Independence, a state government department using this word before the name of an MP is a serious issue. No government plaque, card or invitation should use a word that displays ‘ghulami (slavery)’,” he said. 
 
 Scindia is the MP from Guna constituency and Ashoknagar is part of the segment.
 
 Pawaiya, MLA from Gwalior, was so furious that at least five minutes of his speech was spent in rebuking government officials for their servile attitude. He ordered that the word be deleted from the plaque.
 
 He said, “Inviting Jyotiraditya Scindia is part of protocol and courtesy. But this is a development project implemented by the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. The department has not been told to write ‘Shrimant’ but servility is so deeply engrained that after Shri, the painter’s hand started to tremble and he ended up writing ‘Shrimant’.”
 
 
