KOZHIKODE: The special court in Ernakulam has issued a notice to the CBI on a plea seeking further investigations into   activist  's murder. Abdul Sathar, Fazal's brother, had requested the court to direct the CBI to conduct further investigations under Section 178 (3) of the CrPC as fresh evidence has emerged in the case. Sathar said he had come to know from media that RSS worker Subeesh had confessed about his as well as fellow RSS activists' role in the murder. 

 The CBI, which took over the case from the  , had submitted a chargesheet naming eight CPM workers as accused, which include party leaders Karayi Rajan and Karayi Chandrasekharan.
 
 The petitioner said that though the state police chief forwarded a letter to the CBI director requesting to conduct a further probe in the case, the agency has not done so.
 
 "The CBI officers have chosen not to conduct any serious enquiry into the above revelations by simply ignoring the statutory provisions," the petition said adding that "in total abdication of the statutory powers and duties vested on it, the investigating agency in this case is shutting its eyes to the most important revelations made by Subeesh."
 
 The petition said: "Revelations made by Subeesh, if true, will materially affect the conclusions and findings made in the final report. The alleged revelations seem to be in total variance with the findings now entered by the CBI."
 
 TOI had given a detailed report on the Subeesh's confessions in which he gave a graphic description of how Fazal was murdered. The police have the audio recording of the conversation Subeesh had with another RSS worker in which he describes how the murder was planned and executed. The police also have videographed the confession that runs into hours. Sanjay Kumar Gurudin, former district police chief of  , had written a letter to the state police chief saying that Subeesh's confession was genuine. "The revelation which seems to be genuine and given without any pressure, warrants a further probe in the investigation of the case of Fazal murder," Gurudin wrote. He added that "although 10 years have elapsed after the commission of the offence and the case investigated by the CBCID and the final report by the CBI, these facts need to be verified." 
 
