VISAKHAPATNAM: Former world champion and world No. 5  , looking a pale shadow of his former self, huffed and puffed his way past Indian wildcard   4-2 in the qualifying round of the fourth edition of the Indian Open world-ranking   tournament at the Novotel here on Tuesday.

 The 27-year-old Indian, who lost in the final of the National championship to   earlier this year, kept the formidable Murphy on a tight leash with his unorthodox play. Pandurangaiah didn't show any nerves for someone who was playing his first international tournament. He in fact gave a good account of himself.
 
 The match was more a battle of attrition for the good part and sputtered to life only in the sixth frame when the Englishman finally broke the shackles and came up with a flowing frame and match-clinching break of 66. Ironically, it culminated when he lost position on the colours and snookered the Indian behind the green. Pandurangaiah failed remove the snooker and walked across to congratulate his famed rival. “I'm actually relived,” said Murphy after the marathon encounter. “I was actually amazed by how well he played.”
 
 Pandurangaiah came up with runs of 30 and 34 in the opening frame to throw his rival off-balance. The Indian was not in control of the breaks, he was for the most part playing recovery shots to stay on the table. His cue-ball control left a lot to be desired. It was understandable as he was playing on these lightning quick tables for the first time in his career.
 
 The error-prone Murphy gave his rival plenty of chances in the second frame too, but the Indian failed to take them. The former world champion levelled frame scores with minuscule breaks and took the scrappy third frame as well for a 2-1lead. But the Indian cueist didn't give up as he fought back with runs of 29 and 22 to draw level. Murphy got a lucky break in the fifth frame when Pandurangaiah erred and he made a frame-clinching break of 39. That got the fancied rival going and he sealed the match with a flowing 66 in the next frame.
 
