BARCELONA: US   chairman   said he backs open and free access to the Internet but favours   and “light-touch” regulation.
 
  “Certain core principles of a free Internet, that Internet service providers shouldn’t be allowed to block lawful content must be at the heart of policy,” the Donald Trump appointee said in his first interview to an Indian media organisation. “The principles must be upheld with the consideration that investment in infrastructure must be encouraged.”
  
  An alumnus of Harvard University and Chicago Law School, Pai, 44, has broad experience in the telecom industry and served on the commission for several years before becoming its chairman. The first American of Indian origin to hold the position, his advent has sparked controversy over his supposed stand on net neutrality. Some reports on Wednesday said he regards his country’s 2015 rules on this a mistake.
  
  But Pai defended himself against the accusation that he was bent on slaying net neutrality. “A lot of people have made highly political and highly personal an issue that actually involves a lot of common ground,” Pai told ET.
  
  “For whatever reason, some people are devoted to a particular legal framework that   adopted a couple of years ago, have suggested that any deviation from that is somehow distorting the Internet, but to me the best counter to that is, we didn’t have net neutrality regulations in this form for 20 years starting in the mid-1990s, that light-touch regulation preserved an open Internet and preserved the incentive to invest in networks for 20 years,” Pai said. The scrapping of a decision by FCC under the previous administration to investigate the zero-rated products had led to major announcements on unlimited data plans by the major US carriers in the last few weeks, he said.
  
  “All four national carriers have announced new or unlimited data plans, or expanded the old ones,” said Pai, a former lawyer for Verizon. “That’s I think a sign of a healthy competitive market place.”
  
  Zero-rated products permit Internet service providers to provide certain content at lower or no charges as the costs for browsing are borne by the content providers mostly.
  
  The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai), which has been a fierce supporter of net neutrality, had last year banned zero-rated products such as Facebook’s Free Basics and Airtel Zero with a maximum Rs 50 lakh penalty for violators, to keep the Internet “open and non-discriminatory”.
  
  
 
  Pai said he knows Trai chairman RS Sharma well besides sharing with him a desire to bridge the digital divide.
  
  “I have known him for a number of years and have met him several times. Obviously, he is a counterpart but I would like to think of him as a friend,” Pai said. “I have told him many times that the US-India relationship is a deep and enduring one and I am deeply committed to doing my part to make sure that between his government and mine, we keep that relationship strong and going.”
  
  He said he wouldn’t comment on India’s net neutrality rules as he doesn’t have all the facts. “But all of us want to make sure that ultimately consumers are best off. That should always be the test, regardless of what regulation we are speaking of,” Pai said. The two met in Barcelona and reached a non-binding cooperation accord, according to a media report.
  
  Rules that are too restrictive can be detrimental to investment, Pai said.
  
  “Regulators should be very sensitive to market conditions and if a particular (player) or a group of players is behaving in an anti-competitive way, then you take targeted actions against those players, but preemptively deciding that you should apply regulations to the entire industry, even in the absence of any market failure, creates a serious risk of unintended consequences,” Pai said. “And here, one of the unintended consequences were that infrastructure investments — I would argue because of these rules — have gone down in the US, for the first time in the modern age outside of a recession. ” The Indian regulator is currently formulating recommendations on net neutrality, which essentially entails unrestricted, equal and unfettered access to the Internet.
  
  
 
  The FCC chief feels the previous US administration imposed a heavy-handed framework that was developed in the 1930s to deal with the monopoly that prevailed at the time in the telephone industry.
  
  “And now the industry is much more dynamic and diverse, and we want to make sure we provide some of those core consumer protections but not apply some of the outdated rules of the past,” he said.
  
  The Trump administration is attempting to find a way to return to the consensus that prevailed during the Clinton administration in the mid-1990s. “That consensus allowed the United States digital economy to become the envy of the world, between 1995 and 2015,” Pai said.
  
  Any policy on net neutrality must provide the best market-oriented framework that allows the private sector to innovate and invest.
  
  “To the extent that there are any instances of any anti-competitive conduct, then government agencies are more than adequate to deal with that kind of conduct,” Pai said.
  
  Born in the US in 1973 after his parents moved to the country two years before that, his family’s roots are in Mangaluru, Pai said.
  
  (Romit Guha is in Barcelona for the Mobile World Congress on a trip sponsored by Oppo.)
