Bhopal: The court of special judge Lokayukta on Friday sentenced a constable to three-year rigorous imprisonment for bribery.

 The convicted constable, Amit Mishra (33), who during his posting at the cyber police station Bhopal has been charged with demanding a bribe of Rs 25,000 from a computer hardware and networking professional on pretext of excluding his name from a complaint filed with the cyber police. 
 
 The court also imposed a fine of Rs 6,000 on the constable. Prosecution counsel advocate Vivek Gaur said complainant Ravi Prakash Ahirwar, resident of Awadhpuri Piplani, in his complaint to special police establishment of Lokayukta filed on December 20, 2013 stated that he is a computer hardware engineer. His office is in Shabri Complex, MP Nagar Zone II. Some of his friends also work with him.
 
 One of his employees, Chinmay using his internet connection made a fake e-mail account in name of his rival and sent some mails to various people. A complaint was filed which was being investigated by the Bhopal cyber crime police.
 
 Around ten days before the filing of complaint he was summoned to cyber crime police station where accused constable Amit Mishra told him that as the mails were sent through his internet connection he will also be made co-accused in the case. If he wants to avoid the legal trouble he must pay Rs 25,000 for excluding his name in the case. Mishra took Rs 4,000 from his brother Suraj Prakash. After that he was pressuring them to pay the pending amount.
 
 Police nabbed Mishra red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000 from Suraj outside cyber police station headquarters Bhadbhada on December 27, 2013. A case was registered against him under relevant section of Prevention of Corruption Act. Mishra, currently posted at cyber cell, police control room Jabalpur, pleaded before the court that it is his first crime. As he is the sole earning member of the family he should be given lowest possible punishment.
 
 Additional district and sessions judge Kashinath Singh in his judgment observed, “If the accused would have thought of the family responsibilities and the potential threats at the time of demanding the bribe and receiving it possibly, the crime possibly wouldn’t have happened. The crime of corruption affects society. It has spread like an incurable cancer in the society which if not treated timely will adversely affect the country’s economy and will bring many dangerous results. Corruption is like plague which is not only highly communicable but if not controlled spreads like fire in the forest. It is against democracy and society and destroys the cultural heritage.”
 
 
