New Delhi: A local hand may soon steer the operations of   and   in India as the global auto majors—saddled with a not-so-satisfactory performance—are looking to bring in professionals from outside their company’s fold.

 Top industry sources told TOI that both companies— headless for months and operating with an interim leadership—have interviewed some of the “big names” that are steering operations of rival companies. BMW, which has been struggling to manage growth and has seen its position slip to third in the premium market (behind Mercedes and Audi), seems to have zeroed in on a desi hand,  .
 
 Pawah last steered the operations of premium bike maker   in India, before which he worked with Honda Car India. He had joined Harley only in September 2015 after spending nearly 21 years in Honda’s Indian and Australian arms. When contacted, Pawah refused to confirm. “I will not comment on any such movement.” A spokesperson for BMW said, “BMW Group cannot offer comments on speculations.”
 
 The entry of Pawah within the BMW fold, however, seems logical since the German auto major is also looking to kick-start operations of its bike brand, ‘Motorrad’ in India. Motorrad will begin sales from this year and with an experience in both cars and luxury motorcycles, Pawah seems to fit the bill.
 
 Ford India, on the other hand, has also been on the look-out for a “local talent” and has been functioning under Anurag Mehrotra, director in-charge of Marketing and Sales.
 
 The company is understood to have reached out to some top local auto industry officials, which include Rakesh Srivastava, senior VP in-charge of sales and marketing at Hyundai India. Others spoken to include a senior sales and marketing honcho working with a Japanese car company, and a former top official of Maruti Suzuki, who is now employed with an Indian auto brand.
 
 A spokesperson for Ford refused any comment to specific queries regarding the leadership transition. “The procedure is underway and is nearing completion. It is in the last stages,” the spokesperson said. The company though had an Indian steering operations earlier when Arvind Mathew was named the MD in 2005. But Mathew had been a Ford insider and had worked within the company in separate roles.
 
 “The need to look outside has been necessitated as the company wants somebody who understands the Indian market a lot better, and understands its nuances. India is an important market for Ford and requires high local focus,” a person familiar with the development said.
 
 
