PANAJI: With the   (RP) 2021 which was prepared with a decade-long time frame in mind becoming almost obsolete due to a slew of delays, stakeholders opine that the document can serve as a lesson and a base on which to build a better plan.

 A long gestation period, controversial decisions and an incomplete plan have proved to be the hurdles in its implementation. In fact, the RP has remained in a planning mode for 20 years. 
 
 Even the BJP government shelved it for about four years and initiated the rectification process in 2016. Only three taluka plans have been completed, but not yet notified.
 
 Activists and stakeholders say the time is ripe to revisit it and complete the long-delayed task to protect the state, its ecology and social fabric.
 
 “The new government can look at it and complete what has been done so far,” noted town planner,  , said.
 
 The principles of planning, as supported by 73rd and 74th constitutional amendments, need a framework of around 20 years for planning. “It makes sense if you have a plan for 20 years that is updated every five years and revisited as and when required but without damaging the environment,” Ribeiro said.
 
 The construction boom, even while RP 2011 was under preparation, adversely impacted Goa and upset citizens and activists. 
 
 “We have to draw lessons and strive to build upon the plan considering the time and money spent on it and develop it as a policy first, and other things later if we are to protect Goa’s ecologically sensitive zones,” says conservation architect,  . 
 
 Social welfare and cultural and economic progress with adequate infrastructure and facilities are goals which should be incorporated in the plan. “The state’s interests should override all private interests,” Nachinolkar said.
 
 Goa Bachao Abhiyan (GBA) convener, Sabina Martins, concurred. “People’s aspirations are for development in harmony with nature. But green development is a concept our legislators may not understand, as building structures is their motive for making money,” she said.
 
 Goa is one of the few states in the country to have a regional plan. But, while the previous document was not drawn up on scientific lines, RP 2011 had to be scrapped due to protests over a 50% increase in settlement area.
 
 Demands for decentralization after putting together the RP as a policy, are growing. Drawing up a land use map is a part of it. A policy first will help decide the details at ground level, said GBA secretary, Reboni Saha.
 
 “Ideally, each panchayat can have its own comprehensive plan. But we tend to look only at buildings and infrastructure. People are taken out of it. For this, taking on board a social scientist and economist, among others in the committee to prepare the RP is important,” Saha said. 
 
