NEW DELHI: The   on Sunday paraded its 
  before the media and said that "the party is fighting to protect democracy".

 "Everything is fair in politics but the tactics BJP is using is uncalled. BJP is hitting below the belt," Shaktisinh Gohil, Senior   from Gujarat, said while addressing a press confrence in Bengaluru.
 
 He also alleged that rulling BJP is threating Congress MLAs.
 
 "Ask these MLAs the way they are threatened, they chose to stand by party even when offered Rs 15 crore. We have required numbers. There is no need for us to stay here (in Bengaluru) for even a minute if they say they won't threaten," Gohil said.
  
  
 The party has sent 
  city. Of the 57 Congress MLAs in Gujarat, six resigned from the party in the last two days. Three of them joined the BJP on Saturday.
 
 "Democracy is passing through trying times. I would request media owners, channels and newspapers to save democracy. This responsibility lies with them too. We will bring all the legislators before you (media) and you can ask anything you want," Gohil had said earlier today.
 
 
 
 
 "I am here since last night with my colleagues. We are living like a family. You (BJP) are talking about internal problem? Just see how we respect each other. There is no internal problem or bickering between us," he said.
 
 Gohil was reacting to Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani's charges of internal problems in Congress triggered by the quitting of its leaders, including   and Balwantsinh Rajput.
 
 "They have taken their MLAs to Bangaluru as they do not have faith in their MLAs," Rupani had said.
 
 Gohil claimed that Congress has 60 legislators with it and ruled out BJP winning the third Rajya Sabha seat, polls for which are scheduled on August 8 in Gujarat.
 
 "The question is BJP does not have any number. Congress has 57 legislators therefore BJP cannot even dream of winning the third seat. There are three other colleagues also - we are now 60," he said.
 
 Congress has re-nominated Patel, political secretary to party chief Sonia Gandhi, to the Upper House of Parliament from Gujarat.
 
 In the 182-member Gujarat Assembly, the strength of the Congress has gone down to 51 from 57.
 
 The desertions have cast a shadow on the fate of Patel in the coming Rajya Sabha polls.
 
 Countering criticism of bringing the legislators to the resot to Bengaluru when North Gujarat is reeling under heavy rain and floods, Gohil said the MLAs were brought here after party leaders came to know about BJP's attempt to poach their MLAs using "money and muscle" power.
 
 However, on July 25, all Congress legislators had visited their constituencies in North Gujarat to be among the affected people, he said.
 
 BJP has fielded party president  , Union minister Smriti Irani and former Congress MLA Balwantsinh Rajput who joined the BJP on Thursday.
 
 Of the total of 11 RS members from the state, the term of three--Smriti Irani and Dilipbhai Pandya (both BJP) and Ahmed Patel-- will end on August 18.
 
 
 
 
