MADURAI:   coast guard on Sunday apprehended two fishermen from Thanjavur on charges of transporting 30   from Myanmar on a boat registered in India. The migrants included women and 16 children when the Island nation’s   vessel intercepted the   fibre boat on Sri Lankan waters after seeing so many people crammed into it.

 According to Sri Lankan navy website, the coast guard patrol found that the 30 people were from Myanmar of which seven were men, seven women and 16 children, including a 15-day-old infant and a four-month-old child. The two Indian fishermen allegedly involved in human trafficking were arrested.
 
 The migrants were provided medical help and screened by the navy’s medical team. All of them including the Indian citizens were handed over to Kankensanthurai police for further action. The boat has been registered in Arkattuthurai in Nagapattinam district. The arrested were produced before Mallakam court, the website stated.
 
 Sources in Sri Lanka said the illegal migrants were Rohingya Muslims fleeing Myanmar. Sri Lankan naval agencies have rescued 268 illegal immigrants taking perilous voyages to reach greener pastures, sometimes as far as Australian coast, since February 2013. Among these immigrants detained in Sri Lanka, 45 per cent were Rohingya Muslims from Myanmar.
 
 “In this case, the illegal migrants do have refugee cards issued by United Nations. After embarking on the voyage, they did not know where to go and decided to land along the Sri Lankan coast. The Indian fishermen must have received them mid-sea from other boats and agreed to drop them on the Sri Lankan shore”, said the official not willing to be named. The fishermen have been identified as Ibrahim Shaw and Gopal Velusamy from Thanjavur district.
 
 Lankan media reported that Mallakam court hearing their case have remanded these migrants and Indian fishermen in judicial custody till May 2. Further investigation was being carried out by Sri Lankan authorities, as per Lankan media reports.
 
 'Q' branch sources in   said no refugees from Myanmar landed along the state’s coast and the case appeared fishy as to how fishermen from the state got involved. “As of now we have received information that a Nagapattinam-based boat has been detained along with two of our fishermen while transporting Myanmar citizens. We will get more details after thorough investigation”, a Q branch official said.
 
