Trichy: Festember, the annual cultural festival of the National Institute of Technology, Trichy, kicked-off to a start with classical music performance by acclaimed musician Shravan Sridhar from Chennai on Thursday. The festival began with a motivational talk by IAF wing commander A M S Joseph who also declared the four- day-long festival open. 

 This is the 43rd edition of Festember with the participation of celebrities and people from the creative field across the globe. 
 
 Inspiring the students during his inaugural address, Joseph credited the students for their extraordinary team effort for conducting the event in such a grand manner. He said, “Initially I wrongly took Festember to be a festival that takes place in the month of September. But then I realised that it is a festival to be remembered.” 
 
 Joseph who is also the joint director, publicity cell of the Indian Air force, wished students good luck for the festival which is one of the largest student run event in South India. 
 
 An interactive session with students regarding the Indian Air Force is scheduled during the festival to create awareness on the armed forces. 
 
 The theme for this edition is ‘The Orient’, an experience to taste the flavours of east and south-east Asian countries, with the events and ambience centred on the theme. Hanzo, the ninja is the mascot, who personifies and symbolises the spirit of Festember. 
 
 The inaugural ceremony commenced with Shakthidhar, chairman of Festember-2017, delivering the welcome address highlighting the new initiatives and efforts of the Festember team. Mini Shaji Thomas, director of NIT-Trichy, was also present at the inaugural function. 
 
 Faculty advisor of Festember, Karvembu, introduced the AMS Joseph, wing commander of IAF, who motivated the crowd with his inspiring words. Mani Prakash, overall coordinator, delivering the vote of thanks.
 
 Shravan Sridhar, acclaimed for his non-violinist project and his troupe, showcased a soulful musical performance after the inaugural function.
 
 
