THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The massive   off the   has put the focus on the preparedness of the state to handle such emergencies. With two ports Vizhinjam and Ponnani in the making and the one in Kochi which witnesses import of several metric tonnes of crude oil, the state needs to get the act together with regard to managing oil spills, experts said.

 A draft contingency action plan to control oil spills in Kerala has been chalked out with inputs from an expert panel and is awaiting final vetting by the state government. Tenders have been floated inviting expression of interest (EOI) for expert consultants to help finalise the plan.
 
 “An expert committee was constituted by the state with officials from Coast Guard, ports department and Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) among others. A draft contingency action plan, incorporating their suggestions, has been chalked out. The document calls for geographical mapping of the possible places of oil spills, whom to involve and equipment required to handle such an eventuality," said K Sajeevan, chairman, Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). Three companies including KITCO and an MNC have evinced interest.
 
 "The action plan to control oil spills would be finalised with the consultant stakeholder having expertise to prepare such a plan. Then it has to be vetted by the state government, he said. The plan will be aim to contain the spill before it spreads affecting the marine life," he said.
 
 KSPCB scientists said that the Coast Guard has already a plan of action to control oil spills but proper coordination between all departments is required to handle a major spillage. The state also needs to ensure proper training to task force to respond to marine disasters and ensure that the required equipment such as skimmers, disperses, containment booms and rapid river response system are readily available. “The final plan is expected to be complete by the end of this year,” an official said.
 
 KSDMA member secretary Sekhar Kuriakose said the agency would offer its support and there are technical experts to handle that in the Chemical Energy Response Centre at the State Directorate of Factories and Boilers and in the Coast Guard,” he said.
 
 P Pramod, director, state directorate of factories and boilers told TOI that their purview is restricted to handle industrial emergencies in 20 major industries. “Yet as a humanitarian step, the technical team here will respond to request for support to handle emergencies like oil spills and gas leaks. Proper equipment and coordination by all agencies across the state is required to handle any major oil spill," he said.
 
