JALANDHAR: The   of   of Canada on Thursday passed a motion recognizing the   of November 1984, as  . The motion was moved by Liberal member of provincial parliament (MPP) Harinder Malhi (Brampton-Springdale) and it received support from all three provincial parties.

 Malhi also quoted Indian home minster Rajnath Singh’s use of expression “genocide”, at a public event in December 2014, for the massacre as she argued for the motion.
 
 The motion read, “That, in the opinion of this House, the legislative assembly of Ontario, should reaffirm our commitment to the values we cherish – justice, human rights and fairness – and condemn all forms of communal violence, hatred, hostility, prejudice, racism and intolerance in India and anywhere else in the world, including the 1984 genocide perpetrated against the Sikhs throughout India, and call on all sides to embrace truth and reconciliation.”
 
 She then gave a detailed background of Sikhism, its religious, social and political history. She talked of Delhi Police’s inaction while giving graphic description of the violence targeting Sikhs and comparatively low number of trials and convictions
 
 She said that Rajnath Singh in December 2014 described events of November 1984 and acknowledged it as genocide and also that several persons who had role in it were never punished.
 
 NDP MPP Jagmeet Singh, who also spoke in support of the motion, later said, “This historic achievement helps end the false narrative which depicts the anti-Sikh violence as a conflict between religions or cultures. Instead, this motion makes it clear that the Government of India perpetrated genocide against the Sikh people.”
 
 “The passing of this motion marks the first time in history that any legislative assembly has officially recognized the anti-Sikh violence of 1984 as genocide,” he noted adding, “This motion honours the countless families of Hindu, Muslim and other communities who put their lives at risk to save their Sikh neighbours.”
 
 Canada-based Jatinder Singh Grewal, director of International Policy for Sikhs for Justice, said an official recognition of genocide offers great comfort to Sikhs who called Ontario home. “It remains, however, the first step towards broader recognition and healing.
 
 “All Sikhs applaud Ontario today and give thanks to premier Kathleen Wynne and Liberal MPP Harinder Mahli for hearing us… We will continue press upon other governments here in Canada and globally to stand with us in Ontario on the side of justice,” he added.
 
 Canada India Foundation also wrote to Ontario premier seeking assistance and lobbied unsuccessfully to stop the Ontario Parliament to take up the genocide resolution.
 
