AMARAVATI: Students from Andhra Pradesh (AP) did an encore, outperforming   students on the toppers chart of the Telangana engineering, agriculture and medical common entrance test ( ) this year too.AP students secured six of the top 10 ranks in engineering, while there were five toppers from AP in the top 10 list in the agriculture and pharmacy streams, respectively .

 A total of 2,05,395 candidates appeared for the Telangana Eamcet this year on May 11, of which 98,596 qualified for the engineering stream and 63,570 in the agriculture, pharmacy and allied groups.
 
 Interestingly , the pass per centage for the engineering stream declined to 74.75% this year as against 77.88% last year. On the other hand, agriculture and pharmacy bucked the trend, witnessing a rise in pass percentage to 86.49% this year as against 83.98% last year.
 
 Details shared by the Jawaharlal Nehru Technologi cal University , Hyderabad (JNTU-H), which is the nodal institute that conducts the exam on behalf of the   (TSCHE) and announced the results on Monday , revealed that of the total candidates that qualified in the engineering stream, 98,037 came from the Telangana Intermediate regular course.
 
 Similarly , 62,798 students in the agriculture and pharmacy stream had pursued Class 12 in institutions affiliated to the Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education.
 
 However, students from the   (CBSE) fared poorly with only 91 of the 1,873 students that appeared for the engineering paper making the cut. The result was much the same for those from the   (ICSE) affiliated schools, with only 125 out of the 674 who took the exam managing to qualify . As usual, girls outshone bo ys in both the streams, scoring 78.12% pass percentage in engineering as against 72.64% registered by boys.Even in the agriculture and pharmacy streams, girls notched up a pass percentage of 87.46% as against 84.47% registered by boys.
 
 Surprisingly , though the pass percentage of girls was higher, none of them made it to the top 10 rank chart in the engineering stream. In agriculture and pharmacy , as many as three out of the top 10 ranks were secured by female candidates.
 
 Incidentally , this may be the last Eamcet for admission to engineering seats in Telangana if the central government's proposal of conducting a national common entrance test is implemented from the next academic year onwards.
 
 “If the national engineering exam at par with NEET (National Eligibility-cumEntrance Test) comes into effect, we will have to abide by the rules. While the state government is yet to decide its stance, we will be happy if Eamcet continues for engineering as we will have control over the examination,“ said JNTU-H vice-chancellor Venugopal Reddy .
 
