Mumbai: The   tragedy on Friday is a grim reminder that city politicos, irrespective of the party tag, are fast losing connect with Mumbai's nearly 7.5 million commuters and their insurmountable problems, say observers.

 Gone are the days when many among Mumbai’s   travelled by suburban   to reach Mantralaya, Vidhan Bhavan or the BMC headquarters in south Mumbai. Socialist icons   and P B Samant, CPM leader Ahilya Rangnekar and aapla   were often seen on a train during peak hours. Uttar Pradesh governor Ram Naik, who was BJP MLA in 1980s, and his Kalyan counterpart Ram Kapse often preferred a suburban “local” to the party vehicle.
 
 Back in 1980s, several corporators such as Ramesh Joshi, Kamalakar Thanekar, R R Singh and Bal Dharap, to name a few, would regularly travel by train. If a BEST conductor spotted Rangnekar, or so goes the story, at a crowded bus stop, he would promptly get down and shepherd her into the bus.
 
 “The train journey gave politicians an opportunity to rub shoulders with commuters and acquire first-hand information about their problems,” said Vyankatesh Thakur, a retired BMC employee from Goregaon. “Today, a swanky car is seen as symbol of political clout while a train plebian,” Thakur added.
 
 Following the growing disconnect between the political class and Mumbaikar commuters, city MPs hardly take up problems regarding railway transport. Said Veena Kanvinde, a former state government employee: “Barring Kirit Somaiya, none of Mumbai MPs are ready to discuss railway commuter problems, much less agitate to highlight them. They may be meeting key railway officials or the railway minister, but they don’t inform us about the outcome.”
 
 Many commuters are of the view that present-day Mumbai MPs lack the commitment of, say, Gore or Naik who raised issues pertaining to railways in the Lok Sabha with unfailing regularity and doggedly pursued it with the Centre.
 
 Naik would meet Borivli-Virar-Vasai commuters after every Lok Sabha session and brief them about questions raised and letters written to Rail Bhavan on suburban commuter woes. Ditto with Gore or Kapse.
 
 In fact, Mumbai north and Thane Lok Sabha election were fought chiefly on commuter issues. Little wonder then that a candidate’s train journey was considered a crucial component of a poll campaign. “Now railway commuters have lost their hard-earned clout to politics of personality cult,” said Preetam Dhamnaskar, a professional from Borivli. Railway minister Piyush Goyal may have told the media on Friday, close on the heels of the Elphinstone Road tragedy, that he considered himself a pucca Mumbaikar for he used to travel between Sion and Churchgate as an undergraduate. “Goyal may say anything, but he knows at heart he is not a true train commuter,” said Vinod Shah, a Malad trader. “Even Dilip Kumar used to travel by train before he became a top actor.”
 
