JAIPUR: Minority groups have pressed for higher budgetary allocation in the state   2017-18. Representatives of Muslim, Jain, Sikh and Christian communities jointly accused the BJP government of ignoring the welfare of vulnerable sections of the religious communities in the state by allocating less than 0.10% of the overall budget for 11.04% of the total population in the state. Naim Rabbani of   stated that 80% of the religious minorities, especially Muslims are far below in the socio-economic indicators. “SCs and STs get the budgetary allocation of almost equivalent to their population percentage. Majority of the Muslims and Christians share the socio-economic status with those of our SC and ST brothers but the allocations are not in proportion to the population. Government should allocate reasonable allocations for our welfare,” said Rabbani.

 Highlighting the health issues among Muslims, the member of   Yasmeen Faraqui said that life expectancy of Muslims in the age group of 40 onwards starts declining sharply. “Any death in this age group deprive other family members of education and better healthcare, and push them into poverty. The state should allocate some grants for organizing health camps not only in the Muslim areas but also in localities which have low socio-economic indicators,” said Faraqui.
 
 Father Vijay Paul claimed that Christian community is running short of graveyard space. “Most of our graveyards have become exhausted. The situation has reached to a level that when any person of our community dies, finding a space in the graveyard becomes a major issue for us,” said Paul. He urged chief minister   to allocate a piece of land for a respected burial. He also drew her attention to the declining population of Christians in the state due to mass migration to bigger cities. The census 2011 report states the population of Christians to be around 97, 000 in the state. 
 
 KB Kothari, managing trustee of NGO Pratham who represented Jain community argued that the state should create schemes that help the vulnerable sections of minorities to get access to quality education. 
 
 “The RTE quota of 25% seats is not making much of a difference in the   area. The area doesn’t have quality schools depriving the economically poor population an opportunity to get admission in good private schools,” said Kothari. 
 
