HOWRAH: It was around 9.30 pm on Wednesday when motorman   spotted a slight figure leaping on to the tracks, right in front of his  , as he pulled it out of Kulgachhia station at a speed of over 30 kmph. Sikdar applied the brakes and closed his eyes as the train hurtled towards the fig-ure, fearing it was too late to save whoever it was who had chosen so painful a death.

 The train came to a stop a few seconds later. When Sikdar opened his eyes, he found he had managed to bring the train to a halt just inches away from a girl, cowering under the motor cabin’s spotlight. For the 13-year-old, the alert motorman’s efforts had just given her a gift of life after she ran away from home, looking to end her life on the railway tracks, after learning that her dad was trying to sell her off to the flesh trade.
 
 The traumatised girl from Uluberia in Howrah is now recuperating at a children’s home as cops wait for her to compose herself so that she can make the statement that will help them nab the absconding father.
 
 “I climbed down from the cabin, feeling both relieved and angry, and found the girl attempting to crawl underneath the stationary train. I asked for help from passengers and managed to pull her out. She came out struggling, pleading that we let her die,” Sikdar, 49, who has been driving trains in the   division for 18 years, told TOI.
 
 The girl’s tale then spilled out between sobs. A resident of Jagadishpur in Uluberia, the class-VII student was one of five siblings whose mother had eloped with a stranger some months ago. Their ordeal began then; their dad told them that he couldn't afford their education any longer and said he would sell them off if they didn't find ways to earn their living quickly.
 
 “He would come home drunk. When I refused to quit school, he thrashed me black and blue and threatened to sell me off for Rs 50,000,” the girl told Sikdar and the passengers. “Recently, some strangers came to our house and dad called me to the room in which they were sitting and then asked me to leave. But I stopped outside the door and heard them negotiating a price of Rs 50,000-60,000,” she added. “That was when I realised how close I was to being sold off and fled to my aunt's home in Kulgachhia, two stations away,” she recounted.
 
 But she received a few slaps from her aunt and was told that her father was the best person to decide her fate. “I pleaded with her to give me shelter and promised to do all the household chores. But she turned me away and said I should throw myself before a train if I didn't agree to what my father wanted,” she said. It was then that she decided that she had seen enough of life.
 
 Sikdar handed the girl over to the   at Uluberia station where the train halted for five minutes, instead of the usual 10-12 seconds.   officer-in-charge Sanket Mandal assured the girl she would be safe, offered her a warm meal and kept a watch on her till she dosed off as fatigue set in.
 
 On Thursday morning, he handed her over to Kharagpur division of Childline. “She was a wreck and in severe trauma. She can barely speak and is extremely afraid of her father who has abused and tortured her. Once the girl's condition improves, her statement will help us take action against the father,” Mandal added.
 
