THANE: The multi-millionaire kingpin of the fake call centre racket was carrying just two mobiles and 4,900 dirhams when he arrived at Mumbai airport on Friday. Thane Police said Sagar   (24) aka Shaggy, decided to return to India after he learnt a red-corner notice had been issued against him by the US authorities.Known for his flamboyant lifestyle, especially his love for fancy wheels, Thakar had apparently run out of funds in his Dubai hideout and opted to return to face trial in India.

 Thane Police commissioner Param Bir   said around two months back, Thakar was detained in Dubai following a red-corner notice against him issued by US authorities. Around the same time, Indian immigration authorities were given his passport details and put on alert.
 
 Late on Friday night, immigration authorities at Mumbai airport detained Thakar when he alighted from a Dubai flight and he was handed over to the Thane Police at about 1am. Thakar was produced before a magistrate here who remanded him into police custody till April 13.
 
 Thakar, who has a BSc degree, reportedly told interrogators that he was involved in the call centre racket for the last four-five years. He said he started doing odd jobs right when he was 12 and by the age of 15, he started selling used cars online. He later moved on to work in the call centre industry and learned its intricacies before setting up centres of his own.
 
 “During the one hour we interrogated him, we found him to be very clever. I have never seen a person with such immense knowledge of computers, the law and how the Indian and American systems operate,“ Singh said.
 
 “But we have gathered ample evidence and created a water-tight case against him,“ Singh said, adding it was a challenge as every minute detail had to be probed against all the 400 accused, with more than a dozen of them playing major roles in the case.Singh said police had to rope in various agencies, including legal and IT experts, to solve this complex case.
 
 The fraudsters distributed the money through two to three layers and police are still verifying the total amount made by the call centres, Singh said.
 
 He said according to initial information given by the arrested accused, this was not the only scam but there were others pertaining to immigration, pharma and other sectors.
 
 Following the raids on fake call centres by the Thane Police since October 2016, around 90% of such centres had closed down, Singh said, adding they had been in operation in areas like Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, National Capital Region, Noida, Gurgaon, Chattisgarh,   and Kolkata.
 
