GURUGRAM: The managing directors of real estate giant Unitech, Sanjay Chandra and  , were sent to five days of police remand by a local court in Gurugram, in a case related to cheating and fraud in a fixed deposit (FD) scheme floated by the company. The Chandra brothers are likely to be taken to different cities of the country for the probe, and to collect documents related to the case, and are scheduled to be produced before court on April 15.

 The brothers were arrested from Delhi by Gurgaon police’s economic offences wing (EOW) on Monday, and produced before the court of civil judge (junior division) cum judicial magistrate, Amit Nain, on protection warrant, seeking custody. This, after the Chandras had got three-month interim bail from a Delhi court in a different case, related to a Gurgaon-based real estate project.
 
 Currently, there are 24 different cases before various courts against the Unitech promoters, for criminal breach of trust and fraud, non-payment of fixed deposit amount, etc. Besides, there are hundreds of cases of different natures — delayed possession, non-delivery of flats, etc — before different courts — civil, consumer forum to Lok Adalat. “The   were sent to five days police custody in a case related to FD,” said Gurgaon police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar.
 
 The FIR in this case was filed in Gurgaon in September 2015. Investor   had paid around Rs 88.75 lakh as fixed deposit to the company in July 2013, which was supposed to mature in July 2015. But the company had refused to pay a refund.
 
 “They cheated us, made wrongful gains and caused wrongful loss to investors,” said Anuradha Rustogi, one of the complainants, adding the FD scheme had promised 12% annual interest. But after maturity, the company said payment would take time, without even giving a time limit. “We made endless efforts to recover our deposits, and met various company officials on several occasions, but our efforts were in vain,” Rustogi said. 
 
 “Unitech is unlikely to return the deposit with interest, and is acting in a calculated manner detrimental to our interests,” said the investors in their complaint with EOW.
 
 The EOW told the court that they had found Unitech neither had RBI licence to collect money as FD, nor RBI permit to invest it in other properties. The money collected was invested in different Unitech projects by its sister concern, with offices in Agra, Varanasi, Kolkata, Chennai, Lucknow, Banglore, Chandigarh, Mohali, Hyderbad and Gurgaon, which is why documents of the company in these cities needed to be scanned to get a clear picture of how much was invested in which project. Appearing on behalf of Unitech, advocate Vishal Gupta and senior Supreme Court lawyers, argued this case is similar to the one in which the Chandra brothers were arrested by Delhi Police but granted interim bail by a Delhi court. Seeking two days’ time to refund the money, they argued the accused can make the refund only if they are granted bail. 
 
 Public prosecutor Ramniwas argued that as per the disclosure statement given by the accused, they had bought properties and made investments from the FD amount, through a company which has offices in different cities. “The accused need to be taken to these cities to check records and trace the investments,” he said, adding Unitech is neither a finance company, nor did it have RBI permission, making the case a criminal one. For this, said the public prosecutor, the accused had to be sent to police remand.
 
 
