While the Delhi Police keeps distributing pepper spray, female Metro commuters often have to resort to hiding the supposedly must-have self-defence tool from the CISF, as they don’t allow it on the Metro. A week ago, it was reported that women commuters will now be allowed to carry knives on the Delhi Metro for self-protection. However, CISF officials later denied this and said, “We have allowed small knives that women carry in their tiffin boxes to cut fruits. When we were confiscating these knives, we ended up with thousands of them piling up at our depot in Shastri Park. The decision to allow these knives was taken in September, and it has nothing to do with self-protection.”  However, we found out that another carry-on that has a lot to do with self-protection – the pepper spray can – is definitely not allowed on the Metro. Even as the Delhi Police distributes pepper sprays for free and all safety instructions tell women to carry a can, CISF officials guarding the city’s Metro feel they are a hazard. However, the CISF gave no official statement on whether pepper spray in on the banned items’ list. Even though the DMRC says they allow commuters to carry the cans, CISF officials continue to ask commuters to throw them away before boarding the Metro. 
	
	
	
	
	
	 











Even though pepper spray is not specifically mentioned in the DMRC’s banned items’ list, CISF officials say that since there is no way that they can check the content of the pepper spray container, they can’t risk the safety of other commuters When we asked the CISF if pepper spray is on the banned items’ list, officials refused to comment and said that only the DMRC is authorised to speak on the issue. Anuj Dayal, DMRC spokesperson and executive director (corporate communication), tells us, “We allow female commuters to carry pepper spray. However, it is at the CISF’s discretion whether to allow it on the Metro or not.” Even though pepper spray is not specifically mentioned in the DMRC’s banned items’ list, CISF officials say that since there is no way that they can check the content of the pepper spray container, they can’t risk the safety of other commuters. A senior CISF official tells us, “Last year, commuters on a Gurgaon-bound Metro complained of some odd smell, leading to chaos and the train was also stopped for a minute. We later found out that it was because a commuter’s pepper spray can was leaking. After that incident, we have been extra careful about pepper spray cans, but there is no standard practice that we follow.” Another senior CISF official says, “Even if the can says pepper spray, how are we supposed to be certain that it doesn’t have any other harmful gas or liquid? During security checks, whenever a pepper spray can is spotted, we ask the commuter to throw it away.” The Delhi Police has been distributing pepper spray to college students and women participating in their self-defence training, and asks women commuters to always carry pepper spray in their bags. After the 2014 Uber cab incident, the then-commissioner of police, BS Bassi, had over a 1,000 free pepper spray cans distributed. Cops say that pepper spray, a non-lethal weapon, is a good self-defence tool for women who travel alone. During the launch of the Delhi Police’s Himmat app for women’s safety in 2015, even Home Minister Rajnath Singh distributed pepper sprays to women who completed Delhi Police’s self-defence programme.  Even though CISF officials don’t allow pepper spray cans on the Metro, some female commuters manage to evade detection. Kirti Pandey, a Metro commuter, tells us, “If the scanner spots the can, then the CISF doesn’t allow it on the Metro. I was asked to leave my pepper spray twice at different Metro stations. Now, I keep it hidden, either in a pouch, or wrap it in my stole. Sometimes, if I am returning late from office, I have to hire a cab or take a bus. Not every place is safe like the Metro, so I need to carry pepper spray.” Apra Sinha, an IT professional, says, “I have had to leave at least five-six pepper spray cans at different Metro stations. Now, whenever I board the Metro, I either leave my pepper spray cans at home, or hide it in my bag.” 