After years of trying out pricey lotions, herbal portions and even meditation, finally a simple cheek swab solved Manisha Sawant's acne problem. Sawant, 32, got her DNA tested to find out the root cause of these unsightly breakouts on her face. “It turned out that I have a mutation in the gene controlling inflammation which makes me more prone to acne. This insight helped my dermatologist customise my skin prescription and after a few months I started seeing results,“ says Sawant, a counsellor based in Mumbai.
Ever since the   was mapped in 2003, researchers have been finding ways to utilise this knowledge -from testing   for serious ailments like cancer and heart disease to establishing paternity . Now people are going for DNA tests to seek answers to weight issues and poor skin  .
 
 Xcode, a DNA lab in Chennai, has carried out a few thousand tests for lifestyle issues in the past three years, says its cofounder Dr Saleem Mohammed. “Genes influence all things including disease, health and ageing. For skin, one can find out the likelihood of developing premature wrinkles, collagen breakdown, oxidative stress, glycation (dark patches). Based on this information, individuals (and medical practitioners) can customise treatment plans instead of prescribing the same set of creams and procedures to everyone,“ says Dr Mohammed.
 
 In Pune, the Gene Support lab will be starting a skin DNA panel later this month. “But we have carried out more than 2,000 tests for hair loss in the past seven years,“ says Dr Amol Raut, founder of Gene Support and a molecular biologist. To find out if one is likely to suffer from baldness, hisher AR gene is tested.In men a specific mutation indicates predisposition towards balding while in women the entire gene is scanned to identify certain codes that repeat themselves. Their presence indicates likelihood of hair loss. “These findings are analysed along with other factors like nutrition, grooming and infections to draw up a suitable treatment plan,“ explains Dr Raut.
 
 Wellness company VLCC launched its DNA Skin programme in 2015 and has done more than 500 tests so far. The cost of gene tests starts at Rs 5,000 and can go up to Rs 20,000 or even a lakh depending on the number and type of genes tested.
 
 More than skin health, people flock to DNA labs to get fit. Bengaluru-based Ryan Fernando got his DNA tested in 2014 to understand his body better. “I had been a bread and roti eater all my life but the test showed that I was gluten intolerant. In the gym my trainers always told me to run, run, run...but I was genetically indisposed towards aerobic exercises and more suited to weight training. So, I made the switch. The test also showed that my collagen synthesis was low, which translates to higher risk of injuries. So, I avoid high-impact exercises,“ says Fernando, chief nutritionist at Qua Nutrition, where he uses DNA testing to draw up precise diet plans. In the past he has coached Olympian Sushil Kumar, cricketers Robin Uthappa and Harbhajan Singh and actor Aamir Khan to get his wrestler bod for Dangal.
 
 For parents of budding athletes, the   allows them to understand their's child's aptitude in sport. Fernando tested his son's DNA for athletic abilities and found out that he is best suited for golf.
 
 Roshan Uday, a swimmer based in Belgaum, undertook a DNA based diet in 2012 and went on to win medals in the National Swimming Championship. “Roshan used to feel very tired, had developed patches on the skin and suffered loose motions,“ says Nisha, his mother. After the DNA test it came to light that he was genetically predisposed to low haemoglobin and was deficient in Vitamin B3. After starting on the diet, his haemoglobin rose and do did his performance in the pool.
 
 However, not everyone is sold on the idea. Mumbai-based dermatologist Dr Apratim Goel approaches DNA testing with caution. “These tests predict how you will age or what kind of skin troubles you'll have. The fact is that these traits are not just governed by genes but also our environment, which is constantly changing. When these labs are charging you the sky , they better give you a foolproof idea of the future,“ says Dr Goel.
 
