AGRA: Unhappy over the quality of construction work while building houses under   (PMAY-G), principal secretary of   government Anurag Srivastava, in a letter issued on Tuesday to all chief development officers (CDOs), said there were several glaring shortcomings while executing the scheme. In his letter to the CDOs,   said that state authorities, during their visits to project sites in different districts, found that the walls of these under-construction houses were just four inches in width, besides poor workmanship and use of inferior material.
 
  The principal secretary has now directed the CDOs to conduct extensive inspection at construction sites and to monitor the scheme to ensure that quality work takes place in a time-bound manner.
  
  The order came after chief minister   expressed his displeasure over implementation of Prime Minister’s rural housing scheme. The principal secretary, in the letter, also mentioned that quality of the houses being constructed under the scheme should be such that the beneficiaries can stay safely for at least 30 years. In the letter, Srivastava said: “If expert masons are engaged in construction of these houses, the quality of work is bound to be good. Construction work should be supervised and guided by junior engineers and technical assistants available at the block level.”
  
  In the first phase of the scheme, the state government is working on a plan to construct 5.54 lakh “pucca” houses in rural areas during 2017-18 financial year. The aim of the central government’s flagship housing scheme is to provide shelter to homeless people.
  
  According to the guidelines of the scheme, a pucca house is one which, on suitable maintenance, can sustain changes in weather conditions, natural calamity and wear and tear due to regular usage for at least 30 years. According to sources, quality of houses that are being built at some places is so poor that these cannot sustain even for three years.
  
 Agra CDO Ravindra Kumar said, “Work is progressing at a steady pace. The target now is to construct 2,180 pucca houses for economically weaker sections (EWS) in 15 development blocks of the district under PMAY-G. Required action will be taken to ensure quality work.”
  
  According to official data, around 48 lakh people in rural areas of the state do not have permanent residence.
