JAIPUR: Anti-Corruption Bureau ( ) on Saturday filled a 5,000-page-long chargesheet against road transport inspectors Madan Mohan and Hitesh Chandel and agent   for allegedly accepting bribes from drivers of overloaded trucks passing through   near Shahjahanpur in Alwar.

 The ACB in its chargesheet alleged that Mohan, Chandel and Choudhery, along with absconding former transport inspector Virendra Agarwal and inspector Mukesh Daad from Bhilwara had set up a widespread network of private agents who allowed overloaded trucks to enter into state against a fixed monthly payment of bribe.
 
 According to ACB officials, the transport officials and their agents assigned code words to their dealings. “They referred currency notes of Rs 500 as ‘small grains’ whereas Rs 1,000 were referred as ‘big seeds’,” said ACB’s additional SP Bajrang Singh Shekhawat.
 
 As per the chargesheet, ‘10 kg’ was a code word for Rs 1 lakh and 50 kg was referred for Rs 1.5 lakh. “The transcripts show Madan asking his agents to provide 10 kg of small grains from a transport company,” Shekhawat said.
 
 The ACB said that accused had fixed a monthly payment from truckers. “Every agent had about 10 trucks under him. Each trucker would pay Rs 26,000 a month, a specific marking or logo was attacked to every truck so that vehicle could be identified at transport check post on the highway,” the official said.
 
 The ACB alleged that Rs 70 lakh of old currency notes were converted into new currency notes by the accused through their agents and officials at the highway checkpoints. 
 
 “The old currency notes were converted through payments in oil and toll,” Shekhawat said. The sleuths of ACB also found that their nexus was not limited only to Alwar but had spread across several highways of the state. 
 
 “Their racket had come to such a point where even agents began fighting with each other over bigger share of bribe money. In fact, the penalties on the overloading vehicles had become a major source of parallel income for the accused,” ACB officials said.
 
 “All the people named in the chargsheet ran a nexus in which several agents and truckers were roped in. Only those vehicles were checked which were not part of their sprawling network,” the chargesheet said. 
 
 “Their racket caused accumulative loss of several crores of rupees to public exchequer,” the official said. 
 
 Shekhawat told TOI that a case has been registered again the people for criminal conspiracy (120-B) and other relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. 
 
