K A Sengottaiyan, a heav yweight from the  , has entered the AIADMK cabinet after five years in the wilderness.

 As minister for school education, youth welfare and sports ­ portfolios held by Ma Foi K Pandiarajan ­ Sengottaiyyan ranks third in the state cabinet after chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and forest minister C Sreenivasan.
 
 The return of Sengottaiyyan to the cabinet was partly a recognition for the MGRera veteran's unflinching support to V K Sasikala after the demise of J   and partly an acknowledgement of his seniority. He was with MGR since the days AIADMK was founded and was fielded from the Sathyaman galam assembly constituency in 1977, the first ever full fledged polls for the party.Since then he has won seven assembly elections from Gobichettipalayam, including in 1989 when he stood by Jayalalithaa's side. Over the decades, Sengottaiyyan's influence grew beyond his kongu vellala gounder community and Erode district. Known as a taskmaster, he famously drafted campaign schedules for Jayalalithaa.
 
 But Sengottaiyyan was unceremoniously fired by the late chief minister from her cabinet in July 2012, barely a year after she formed the government. Sengottaiyyan, then a revenue minister, was not just axed from the ministry but also from the post of party headquarters secretary .While the exact reasons for his expulsion were never made public, it was believed that the action came after one of his personal assistants was arrested for entering a woman's house in Chennai and threatening her.Since then, Sengottaiyyan maintained a low profile even as fellow functionaries rose in stature in the party.
 
 Partymen say although Sengottaiyan has bagged a ministerial berth, the portfolio of school education and youth welfare is a mismatch for his stature. “He has lost to his one time student Edappadi in the race of loyalty . He mentored Palaniswami, but has to report to him now,“ said a party func tionary from Coimbatore.
 
 But supporters of Sengottaiyyan believe he may be suitably rewarded in the future. “He was the prime reason for the flock to remain intact in western districts at a time of crisis. But a plum portfolio couldn't be allotted to him probably because there were so many ministers from the western belt,“ said one of his supporters.
 
