Big guns   and   misfired but   and   hit their targets to sail into the men's singles quarterfinals of the   Super Series in Tokyo on Thursday.

 Much was expected from India's golden girls, particularly Sindhu after her spectacular triumph in the Korea Open recently , but the duo failed to find a way . Fourth seed Sindhu lost to Nozomi Okuhara 21-18, 21-8 in 48 minutes. The much expected duel between the two inform shuttlers failed to reach great heights as Sindhu failed to find her rhythm.
 
 Barring the initial phase when Sindhu was leading 1816 in the first game, the tall Hyderabadi could not match her diminutive opponent. Okuhara reeled off five consecutive points to seal the game 21-18.
 
 Egged on by the home crowd, Okuhara dominated the second game and avenged her defeat to Sindhu in Seoul.It was Sindhu's second loss to her Japanese opponent in three weeks, with the latter now leading the rivalry 5-4.
 
 Saina, meanwhile, began well but ran out of steam against Carolina Marin. The reigning Olympic champion posted a clinical 21-16, 21-13 win in 43 minutes.
 
 However, Srikanth and Prannoy provided some much needed cheer by booking their place in the last eight. Eighth seed Srikanth steamrolled Yun Hu of Hong Kong 21-12, 2111 in just 29 minutes. He will now run into world champion Viktor Axelsen of Denmark for a spot in the semifinals.Head to head, it's 2-2 between them. Axelsen won the last match between the duo at the India Open Super Series in New Delhi early this year.
 
 “The last time I played against Yun, I lost. So this time I wanted to be consistent and focused. I didn't want to give him any easy points. I feel it worked for me today ,“ Srikanth told TOI.
 
 On his forthcoming fixture, Srikanth said, “He is a very tough player and the current world champion. Viktor has been playing some best bad minton this season.“
 
 Like Srikanth, his practice partner Prannoy also scored an impressive win to enter the quarters. The world No. 19 overcame Jen Hao Hsu of Chinese Taipei 21-16, 23-21.
 
 Although Prannoy notched up a straight-game win, the hour-long contest witnessed several long and pulsating rallies. With this victory , Prannoy also broke his twomatch losing sequence against the World No. 26.
 
 The Kerala lad will now face second seed Shi Yuqi. The Chinese survived a big scare against Sameer Verma before winning in 65 minutes.
 
 
