
 
  It is a short but very important session. The opposition’s approach to the bills, including the Constitutional Amendment Bill on OBC Commission, will be based on their merits. The opposition will press for discussion and government action on farmer suicides. Not only a debt waiver, but an immediate upward revision of minimum support prices, as the UPA regime had continuously done, is needed. Parliament must also discuss happenings in J&K and the stand-off with China on the border trijunction. Above all, we want a discussion and a promise of effective action by the government on the violence unleashed by Sangh Parivar members in the name of cow vigilantism and lynching, thereby creating divisions and hatred in our society. Let me underline — this is not a religion-vs.-another-religion matter. Majority of Hindus are secular-minded and want peaceful co-existence with others. Even in Muslim nations with only one religion, small and aggressive groups are mounting attacks by propagating irrational and destructive things against the peaceful majority. In India, those who seek to attack and drive out minority communities are the same who want to target the majority in their own religion who stand for rational approach and peace. So, we need to be extremely vigilant about this and government must act sternly.
  
  
 
  
  The unity of around 18 opposition parties on presidential and vice-presidential polls is a response to the unprecedented assaults, both on personal and ideological fronts, which the Modi government,   and Sangh Parivar have unleashed on the Opposition, its leaders and on the very idea of India. Clearly, the Centre and BJP are trying to eliminate the very concept of an Opposition in a democracy. We will not allow that plot to succeed. I am hopeful the emerging unity of like-minded parties will prevail in Parliament and also outside to a great extent.
  
  
 
  
  We are now focussing on common issues and concerns. It’s early to talk of next LS polls.
  
  
 
  
  Soniaji has a lot of goodwill among leaders of most Opposition parties. But in Bihar,   is a smaller coalition partner. The issue involves two big parties (RJD and JDU) and both their leaders (Lalu Prasad and Nitish Kumar) are capable of dealing with it in their respective ways. Of course, if they seek Congress support, we will do what we think is right.
  
  
 
  
  A very positive development in UP is that the traditional bitterness between BSP and SP is now paving the way for both establishing a positive working relation along with Congress. The earlier rivalry between the three parties, even while sharing a broader ideological approach, was about one being in power and the other in Opposition rotationally. With all three now in Opposition, and BJP as the ruling party in UP waging an ideological war, the trio is establishing a working relation. It is too early to talk of an electoral relation.
  
  
 
  
  Union home minister and external affairs minister didn’t mention it when they briefed opposition leaders on J&K. Earlier, when the Chinese president visited India and held talks with PM Modi, there were reports of some Chinese army personnel presence near Ladakh. It is important that the government take Parliament into confidence. When the Centre says it will not hold talks with stakeholders, then it is leaving scope for only guns and consequences are evident. So, if the Centre is not opening the door and windows for dialogue, at least open the roshandaan (ventilator). In the BJPPDP coalition, the regional party has become a hostage and is implementing BJP’s ideological agenda in J&K. 
