GURUGRAM: Chief minister   has approved a special land exchange scheme to clear the hurdle for widening of   at Khandsa village. 

 The move is aimed at de-clogging the canal that was apparently the main reason behind last year’s massive waterlogging at Hero Honda Chowk which led to a 20-hour gridlock on July 28 and 29 that has now come to be referred to as Gurujam.
 
 Under the land exchange scheme, people whose houses are coming in the way of the widening of the canal, will get land of equivalent size in Sector 37C for free. Besides, the oustees will get compensation for building their houses on new plots from the urban development body .
 
  Sources said Huda would have to acquire around 5 acres by removing 80-odd houses at Khandsa village before it could start the work. 
 
 “The state government has approved the land exchange scheme. Huda has prepared a draft for the same and now is in the process of completing paperwork,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav.
 
 Wiser from the last year’s experience, the state government has been planning to increase the water-carrying capacity of 39.96km-long Badshapur canal, which begins at Ghata and meets another drain at Najafgarh.
 
 The width of the canal narrows down from around 30 metre between Ghata and Hero Honda Chowk to less than 10 metre at Khandsa, reducing its water carrying capacity from 1,200 cusecs to 500 cusecs. 
 
 Source claimed the drain at some places had narrowed down to as low as 4-5 metre along the 1.5-2km stretch at Khandsa.
 
  This has been identified as the major reason behind waterlogging at Hero Honda Chowk (the chock point of Gurujam), the service road of NH-8, sectors 33-34 and nearby areas. 
 
 During monsoon, over 1,000 cusecs of water flows into the canal in this area, flooding nearby low-lying locations. 
 
 Now, under the project, the drain will be made at least 30 metres wide all along its course. “Last year’s Gurujam had dented the image of Gurgaon. So the state government is very keen to complete this project before the monsoon,” said a senior government official.
 
 Initially, Huda was facing problem in rehabilitating Khandsa oustees as majority of the residents owned plots of non-standardised sizes. The size of plots in Huda sectors was 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 marlas. As per the special land exchange programme approved by the chief minister, oustees will be given plots of standard size in Sector 37C and they will be asked to pay for the extra land (difference in plot size), if any. 
 
 For example if a land owner has a plot of 1.5 marla, he will be allotted a plot of 2 marla and asked to pay for the difference in plot size.
 
 “Oustees will have a choice to opt for a plot bigger than their existing ones. If oustees get a plot smaller than their existing land, then Huda will compensate for the difference,” said the official.
 
 With only a few months left for the monsoon, Huda has to race against time to rehabilitate the people to be affected by the project and complete the drain widening work at the earliest to avoid a Gurujam-like situation this year.
 
 
