 is a simple lad. The lean and tall footballer from Kannur made waves with his performance for   before helping Bengaluru FC win numerous trophies including I-League and Federation Cup. Now comes news that he will rejoin   Blasters, boosting the club’s chances.

 While he is already a household name in Kerala, the recently announced ‘Fans’ Player of the Year’ 2017 award instituted by Football Players’ Association of India (FPAI) shows he is popular elsewhere too! In a candid chat, Vineeth opens up about his dreams, his growing fandom, effect of league matches on Indian football and more...
 
 
 
 
 I am blessed to play for leading clubs and for the national football team. Football is an entertainment for the fans. I feel I was able to entertain them through my game and so they selected me for the award by voting for me. This award is a motivation for me and reflects a lot of expectations from many hearts out there who are madly in love with football. It is a special award in my career and encourages me to put in more hard work and improve.
 
 
 
 
 In Kerala, we don’t have effective football clubs or tournaments to promote the game. How many sevens football tournaments are held here? Unlike olden times, Kerala football lacks players of calibre. There is no one in the league of Vijayettan (IM Vijayan) and John Paul Anchery now. The present league match seasons with international players have helped the Indian audience get a feel of international games and ambience.
 
 Our football franchise team based in Kochi (Kerala Blasters) has helped in expanding the fan base for the game in our state including kids but the football fever lasts only till the end of the season.
 It is not that we don’t have players here. Here, a young football player’s dream is only to win a Santhosh Trophy or to get selected to a league franchise team. After college, he will get a government job under sports quota and the rest of his life is spent playing department tournaments. These tournaments do not have the potential to lift the player’s career.
 
 But when we look at the North East, they hold I-League level quality matches and tournaments that have produced many promising players. Our Kerala Premier League matches are nothing compared to them. 
 Nowadays, lots of youngsters approach me to seek guidance about making a mark in the game. But when an under-17 kid asks me to suggest a good club for him to hone his skills, I am at a loss as we don’t have such clubs. I was fortunate to get trained under Viva Kerala Club which doesn’t exist anymore.
 So I wish the scenario changes and we have a lot of good clubs and tournaments that can improve the standard of the game in Kerala. 
 
 
 
 
 Fame or worries never affect my love towards football. Playing football makes me happy in life, at any situation. Football made my career and life, so I never allow any instance to disturb it. Fame is fickle. If my performance on ground is good then I will be a celebrated star, if not, I will be criticised (laughs).
 
 
 
 
 I am a person who loves unplanned trips, mostly alone. I am a lover of forests. Wildlife photography is another of my passions. A forest is the most peaceful place to rejuvenate, far from the maddening crowds. I love films too. I am a great Mammookka fan. During off-season if I get to know Mammookka is shooting somewhere near me, I will hurry to see him just like a fan (laughs).
 
 
 
 
 India winning the World Cup in football.
 
