HYDERABAD: Stepping up efforts to complete the proposed irrigation, power and drinking water projects in Telangana, chief minister   on Wednesday rang up Union home minister   and requested early clearance from the Centre to the bill making amendments to the Land Acquisition Act, 2003.The bill was passed recently by the state assembly and will become an Act once the Union home and law ministries clear it and the President gives his assent.

 Telangana wants the bill to be cleared at the earliest because it has plans to acquire two lakh acres of land for several irrigation, thermal power, industrial and infrastructure projects in the state.
 
 Apart from irrigation projects, the National Industrial Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ), thermal power projects at Bhadradri, Yadadri, Mission Bhagiratha, FiberNet and the National Highway expansion projects require huge tracts of land and the acquisition is possible only after the amendments to the Act is in place.
 
 Sources in the TRS government told TOI that Rajnath assured   that the   government will expedite the process of getting clearances from the home and law ministries as well as the President's assent. The CM told Rajnath that any delay in the amendments enactment would lead to delay in the construction of several important projects in the state. Responding to this, the Union home minister promised all necessary clearances in a week or two, the sources said. Later, the chief minister also telephoned nion law minister Ravishan kar Prasad to request for early submission of legal opinion on the bill.
 
 The Union minister assured the CM a positive opinion before the weekend.The chief minister also sent a delegation of TRS MPs to follow the matter with the Centre. TRS MP A Jitender Reddy has already met law and home ministry officials and submitted all necessary documents.
 
 Though not a convention, KCR is also mulling to meet President Pranab Mukherji, if needed. But   officials advised against such move stating meeting the President for an approval would send wrong signal and serve no purpose.
 
