HYDERABAD: Trust   to walk the talk. The Indian skipper has been quite vocal about getting the process right irrespective of the opposition, and it was Bangladesh's turn to bear the brunt of his broad blade on the second day of the one-off Test match.

 Kohli's fourth double century (204; 295min, 246b, 24x4) in successive series -he's now got one against every team that India have played this season (New Zealand, England and now Bangladesh, as also the West Indies in 2016) -helped the hosts call the shots on a day of unique feats.
 
  too chipped in with his second Test century , an unbeaten 106 (192m, 155b, 7x4, 6x2).
 
 The crowd here, like in most centres in India, has always been biased towards its stars and Kohli was the brightest on view at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium as India posted their third straight total upwards of 600. The hosts had scored 631 in Mumbai and 759 for nine declared in Chennai during the series against England. This time, before applying closure 13 overs after tea, they reached 687 for six.
 
 Bangladesh had a tricky 14 overs to negotiate before close on Friday .They did well to finish at 41 for one, still 646 runs behind, but their bowlers wouldn't mind the respite after the pasting they received as every Indian batsman made it count with handy partnerships.
 
 On Nelson overnight, the Indian captain wasted no time in dictating terms when India resumed at 356 for three.   (82; 200m, 133b, 11x4) was equally composed in their 222-run fourth-wicket partnership and it took a superb catch from Mehedi Hasan, diving full length to his left at short cover, to halt the Mumbaikar's march to what could have been his ninth Test hundred.
 
 But such is the confidence that Kohli accrued from his 200 in Antigua, 211 in Indore and 235 in Mumbai that he let nothing come into the zone that he was in.
 
 
 
 
 The decision of umpire Joel Wilson, which was successfully reviewed by the Indian captain when on 180, in consultation with Saha, was a minor distraction. Had he reviewed the decision of Marais Erasmus when on 204, Kohli would have benefitted again, as TV replays showed that the point of impact of Taijul Islam's delivery was outside off stump. The defensive fields employed by Bangladesh did little to stop Kohli from adding 121 runs in the first session as India went to lunch at 477 for four and continued in the same vein on resumption.
 
 Of the 76 overs Bangladesh bowled on the day , 65 were sent down by their spinners, but spin or seam made no difference to Kohli as he gorged on the offerings with relish.
 
 It's difficult not to get carried away by the quality of the Bangladesh attack, but in not letting his concentration wane for long periods -a testimony to his supreme fitness -the Indian captain made another emphatic statement that there's no diminishing his appetite for runs.
 
 
 
 
 Saha took control after lunch as he realised 74 runs for the sixth wicket with R Ashwin. The diminutive wicketkeeper, fresh from his Irani Cup exploits for Rest of India, paced his knock well. His opposite number   missed a stumping chance when Saha was on four, but there were no nervous nineties for the Indian as he reached the three-figure mark with a six down the ground off Taijul.
 
 Ashwin played his part with Saha, but it was  's advent at the crease that put the Indian scoring rate on a gallop.
 
 The Saurashtra all-rounder was past his fifth Test half-century in a trice and looked good for more than an unbeaten 60 (78b, 4x4, 6x2) when Kohli called them in. Saha was not done, though. He dived full length to his right to come up with a smart catch off   to dismiss Soumya Sarkar, an Erasmus decision successfully reviewed by the hosts.
 
 
  
  
  
 
