GURUGRAM: Handle your bank cheques with caution, for a single signed leaf may allow fraudsters to make multiple withdrawals of varied amounts.

 The police have begun a probe into what appears to be an organised racket in which criminals first steal a signed cheque, clone it and use the counterfeit cheque again for fraudulent withdrawal.
 
 Pavan Choudary, managing director of Vygon, a medical equipment firm, learnt it the bitter way around six months ago, and approached the police. 
 
 Choudary, who is also a writer, had issued a cheque of Rs 67,209 in favour of ALD Automotive, based in   in New Delhi, on April 7, 2014. The cheque, which was dispatched two days later through  , got lost in transit. A few days later, the cheque was encashed by Rajesh Singh at Vijaya Bank’s Jasola branch in New Delhi. Since the cheque was lost by the courier company, Overnite Express refunded the amount, and filed a complaint at Defence Colony police station. Vijaya Bank also acknowledged that the cheque was fraudulently encashed, and froze Rajesh’s account. But, due to lack of KYC details, the theif managed to make off with the cash. 
 
 Almost after a year, on July 19 last year, Choudary’s company received an email from the ICICI Bank’s branch in Sector 34, Gurgaon, stating that the same cheque had been presented again in the company account by one M/S Neelkanth Steel for an amount of Rs 20 lakh. The company officials requested the bank to stop the payment as the cheque was never issued by them. According to Choudary,  , after conducting an infrared scan, informed them that the cheque was indeed a forged one.
 
 Subsequently, Choudary received a notice dated 13/08/2016 under sections 138 (dishonour of cheque) of the Negotiable Instruments Act and 420 (cheating) of the IPC from Balwinder Kumar, the proprietor of M/S Neelkanth Steel at Sangrur, Punjab. “The notice stated we had ordered cement and other construction material from the steel firm and had paid with the cheque, which was dishonoured,” Choudary told TOI, denying issuing any such cheque in favour of Neelkanth.
 
 Choudary claimed it was an organised crime. “They fake cheques and print them on similar looking paper. We were lucky because our bank contacted us before processing the transaction. Otherwise, we would have had to incur a huge loss,” he said. He added that he was aware of many people, who had been duped in a similar fashion.
 
 Sadar police station SHO Vijay Kumar said a case had been registered on Wednesday under various sections of the IPC after preliminary probe by the economic offences wing. “The modus operandi and other details will come out only after the probe is complete,” the SHO said. 
 
 
