BARNALA: Already rattled at being denied ticket from Dhuri constituency by the Congress, the family of former CM of Punjab Surjit Singh Barnala felt the absence of senior leaders of the party at his cremation and memorial service was akin to adding salt to injury. Barely 10 months after joining the Congress, the family quit the party on Thursday. Barnala family’s close associate and former minister   also resigned from the Congress with them.

 Barnala’s wife Surjit Kaur and son Gaganjit Singh Barnala formally resigned from the Congress less than two weeks after the former Punjab CM had passed away. While their political adversary and Punjab CM   had attended the bhog ceremony of Barnala on Sunday and called him a ‘statesman’, no senior Congress leaders showed up to empathize with them.
 
  (SAD) president and deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal had also visited the bereaved family on January 20 to condole the death of Barnala, who has served as a Union minister and governor of four different states.
 
 Barnala (91) had passed away on January 14, 2017, after a brief illness. Barnalas had merged their party SAD (Longowal), floated by the family against the Badal-led Akali Dal, on April 18, 2016, after a meeting with Congress president   and vice-president  .
 
 “We felt cheated by the Congress. We were hurt by the party going back on the promise made to us of allotting two party tickets in the 2017 assembly elections. Apart from it no senior Congress leader bothered to attend the memorial service of Barnala. All these factors clearly point how the Congress completely ignored the family. This made the family take the decision of partying ways with the Congress,” said a close associate of Barnalas.
 
 Gaganjit said, “Our conscience forced us to take the decision with a heavy heart. I, my mother, son and friend Baldev Mann have resigned from the Congress and will decide future course of action in due time.”
 
 “Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, in a letter to Congress president Sonia on December 8, 2016, had written that during his tenure as the party’s Punjab unit chief, the Barnala family had demanded two tickets while merging SAD (Longowal) led by Surjit Kaur. The then Punjab affairs in-charge of the Congress Shakeel Ahmed had assured to adjust family in the coming elections,” a close friend of the family said.
 
