

 
 
 
 I feel a majority of them have deviated from their election manifestos and party programmes. This pains me a lot and has left me anguished. I am saddened over the decline of the political debates in the elections and during the sessions in the Parliament and the legislature. What is happening in the Parliament for the last one year is also not good for democracy. Quality debates are missing from the Parliament and the state Assemblies, rather debates are not taking place at all.
 
 
 
 Foul language and words should be avoided and the elections should be fought within the framework defined by the  . The commission is taking cognisance of the violations of the code of conduct and it should take note of the decline and act more effectively. Such controversial words are being used outside the state too. In one election, when Narendra Modi was chief minister of Gujarat, his Congress rivals had described him as `merchant of death', so this disease is engulfing the entire nation.
 
 
 
 
 I remember the RSS, the BJP and the Communists have some mechanism within their organizations for proper training. Even the socialists have Rashtra Sewa Dal for this purpose.The RSS has Rambhau Poorvadhan Institute, once headed by Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, for the grooming of politicians and young minds. Before coming to Raj Bhawan, Lucknow, I was the head of the BJP's good governance cell and chaired it for over four years. I would say, all political parties should sit together and introspect on this issue.
 
 
 
 
 When the elections had just started in the state and the Election Commission imposed the code of conduct, in most of the programmes I appealed to the political parties to follow the decorum and dignity and strictly adhere to the code of conduct. I had also appealed to the voters to exercise their franchise.
 
 
 
 
 Normally I don't discuss this incident, but since it has become a point of reference to prove it, I would recall the 1996 elections. I was contesting from the North Mumbai Parliamentary constituency. I had suffered cancer in 1994 and had been fully cured by the grace of god, medical experts and my family members, mainly my wife Kunda Naik, who stood by me throughout this crisis.
 
 But Congress leaders were spreading rumours among voters that I was still suffering from it, which was baseless. Even voters rejected the Congress conspiracy and I won. What I want to say is that despite such campaigns, I neither reacted on this issue, nor did I use any foul language. Even in Lucknow, you know one minister used foul language against me repeatedly, but I simply ignored it and refused to be drawn into the controversy.
 
 
 
 
 I don't write off the engagement of the PR agencies by political parties.Contesting an election has become more professional and scientific. There is an impact of good campaigning and oratory undoubtedly. PR agencies work in a scientific and professional way. So I don't condemn it. But what is happening is that now, instead of political parties guiding the PR agencies, the PR agencies are guiding the political parties.
 
