PUNE:   of Swatee Jamdade, who died at homeopath Babasaheb Khidrapure’s hospital in   village allegedly after a botched  , on Wednesday raised   over her   issued by the Sangli civil hospital.

 The relatives alleged that the report was  . It states ‘excessive bleeding due to rupture of tubal or ectopic pregnancy’ as the cause of Swatee’s death, which is not true as an earlier ultrasound report had shown she had normal or intrauterine (inside the uterus) pregnancy, they said.
 
 Not just the relatives, but gynaecologists too have expressed surprise over the postmortem report. They said most ‘in tube’ pregnancies rupture at or before six to seven weeks and Swatee was 19 weeks pregnant at the time of her death. Moreover, her earlier sonography test carried out at 13 weeks of pregnancy had not shown any abnormality.
 
 The diameter of fallopian tube, experts said, is only a few millimetres. As pregnancy grows in the tube (ectopic) it gets stretched and can be stretched to a few centimetres only (3-5cm). Any further extension beyond that point leads to rupture of the tube that is a life-threatening complication.
 
 A 19-week pregnancy is too advanced for the small tubes and no pregnancy ‘in tube’ can grow to 19-week size without rupturing, they said.
 
 “How can tubal pregnancy continue for this long a period? Even if she had tubal pregnancy then how she didn’t even complain of any pain, including abdominal, for that matter? This is all suspicious. I have even consulted a few gynaecologists in Sangli and Miraj. They have expressed doubts about it. Moreover, her sonography report at 13 weeks of pregnancy had clearly stated that it was normal. All this is very fishy and needs to be investigated properly,” Sachin Pawar, cousin of Swatee who stays in Sangli, said. 
 
 A senior gynaecologist from state-run B J Medical College attached Sassoon hospital in Pune said, “Using a sonography test, normal pregnancy (intrauterine ) can be detected within five to six weeks whereas ectopic pregnancy can be diagnosed around six to seven weeks. A tubal or ectopic pregnancy of 19 weeks is unheard of.”
 
 Gynaecologist Pankaj Sarode, secretary of Pune Obstetrics and Gynaecological Society said, “No pregnancy ‘in tube’ can grow to 19 weeks’ size without rupturing. This is because the diameter of a fallopian tube is a few millimetres. When pregnancy happens in the fallopian tube, it (the tube) may stretch up to three to five centimetres and any stretch beyond that point leads to the rupture of the tube. Whereas the doctors performing postmortem found the ectopic pregnancy at 19 weeks gestation when the size of the baby is about 15-17 centimetres. This is definitely unheard of.”
 
 When contacted, civil surgeon Sanjay Salunkhe of the Sangli civil hospital, where the postmortem was carried out on March 2, said, “The civil hospital comes under the direct control of the Government Medical College, Miraj. Hence, we have forensic experts and pathology experts from the medical college who were present at the time of the autopsy. The ectopic pregnancy in this case is the rarest of the rare occurrence.”
 
 Forensic expert Rajesh Bardale, head of the forensic department at Government Medical College, Miraj whose team carried out Swatee’s autopsy said, “Even at 19 weeks, it was an ectopic pregnancy. The foetus was inside the fallopian tube along with the placenta. This is definitely a rarest occurrence. We have preserved samples of the foetus, the fallopian tube and the placenta for investigations.”
 
 
