JODHPUR/ MUMBAI:  , 20, who had fled Mumbai after allegedly murdering his mother in Santacruz on Tuesday , was arrested on Thursday from a hotel near the  .

 Siddhant is the son of inspector Dnyaneshwar Ganore, who was part of the  , and Deepali, 42, a home-maker.
 
 He expressed no remorse and said he killed his mother because she made his and his father's life miserable. The body was found early on Wednesday with “Tired of her, catch me & hang me“ and a smiley scribbled in blood next to it.
 
 Siddhant, an engineering course dropout who had left his phone behind, had bought a new phone, plugged into the hotel wifi and accessed his social media accounts. A watchful   was alerted and tipped off their Jodhpur counterparts, who picked him up. He is likely to be brought back to Mumbai on Thursday night. An official from National College in Bandra (west), where murder accused Siddhant Ganore studied, told TOI that the police have collected his academic details. “He has failed in all the subjects he had appeared for (in his first year exam) and was irregular in class,“ said the official.
 
 On Tuesday afternoon, Siddhant met his father at around 11am at Khar police station before returning home late afternoon. “On reaching his flat in AG Park Cooperative Housing Society at Vakola in Santacruz (east), Siddhant's mother enquired about his first year results and said she would accompany him to college to check how he was faring. This angered Siddhant, who stabbed her five times on her neck.Deepali tried to fend him off and got injuries on her palm,“ said one of the investigators.
 
 After killing her with a kitchen knife, Siddhant tried to slit his wrist but could not.He then took a bath, packed some clothes and also took along Rs 2 lakh that was at home in a bag and reached Borivli railway station. He boarded a random train without even buying a ticket and reached Jodhpur via Surat on Wednesday .
 
 Madan Beniwal, the station house officer of Udaimandir police station in Jodhpur, said that he had checked into Hotel Dhoom which is located opposite the railway station.
 
 “On receiving informa tion from the Mumbai police, we reached the hotel and detained Siddhant and brought him to the police station, where he confessed to killing his mother,“ said Beniwal.“We asked for his identity card after knocking on his door and on confirmation of his identity, we asked him to come with us. He collected all his belongings and accompanied us without asking any question,“ he added.
 
 A team from the Vakola police station, which had been trying to keep a track of Siddhant, had reached Jaipur on Wednesday night. It located him in Jodhpur on the mobile network while he was trying to access social media and alerted Beniwal.The police team also shared his photograph on WhatsApp and provided Beniwal with his location.
 
 Beniwal said Siddhant had left his cellphone in Mumbai and did not contact any acquaintance. He was given away only when he tried to access his social media accounts. The police have informed his family members, who are reaching Jodhpur.
 
 Deepali was found murdered on Wednesday by her husband, police inspector Dnyaneshwar Ganore.
 
