BHOPAL: Unabated   poses a major danger to at least   of   (ASI), some even older than  .

 Jain and Shiva temples of 9 and 10 AD at Badoh and Pathari near Vidisha are bearing the brunt of illegal stones quarrying. There are large dumps of stones spread around Jain and Dasavatara temples
 
 Stone quarrying has led to cracks developing in monuments. Mounds of illegally mined stones around the temple obstruct way to these sites and deface the ancient temple site, ASI sourcs said.
 
 “Temple architecture development in this region had begun during Pratihar dynasty and these temples belong to the same era. Besides, there are evidence of palaeography both in Badoh and Pathari sites,, sources said.
 
 Beginning 2007, when the then archaeological superintendent of Bhopal Muhammad KK wrote to the then collector of Vidisha to save the “ precious heritage of the region”. “ Mine owners not only carry out blasting, but they dump waste material near these monuments,” he wrote. Ten years down the line, the situation has not changed.
 
 “The last letter was written in August 2016 reminding the collector of Vidisha to stop the mining.” Talking to TOI, Vidisha district collector Anil Suchari said, “ All efforts are being made to stop them, especially to ensure no mining takes place in 750 metres limit of ASI.”
 
 He said,“About a month back, they (those indulging in mining) got a stay from the High Court.” 
 
 The problem starts when a line between the mine lease area and the prohibited zone gets blurred and illegal activities start, ASI sources said. Three   in Morena: Batteshwer, Nareshwer and Mitaoli are also exposed to illegal stone mining. 
 
 In 2007, the then superintending archaeologist ASI Bhopal circle Muhammad KK had even sought the help of former RSS Sarsanghachalak KS Sudarshan to stop the mining. And it had desired impact. Mining was stopped for some time.
 
 This archaeological site comprises about 200 ancient shrines located near Padavali, a village 25 km from Morena. Made of sandstone, majority of the temples in Bateshwer are dedicated to Shiva. Some of them are also dedicated to Vishnu and belong to 8-10th century period.
 
 Sandstone and flagstones mined from region near all ASI sites get good money in market.
 
