SURAT: The   ( ) has urged the   (SMC) to keep the diamond units out of the purview of professional tax. 

 Around two dozen small units having four to five diamond emery wheels have shut down in the last few days in Varachha after they were served with notices for the outstanding professional tax payment by the civic body. 
 
 The small diamond manufacturers have approached the Surat Diamond Association (SDA) and the Gems and   (GJEPC) to resolve the professional tax issue with the SMC. 
 
 There are over 2,000 small units in the city, processing near gem quality diamonds and many doing job work for the medium and big units. 
 
 Sources said that the small units employ less than 30 diamond workers. These diamond workers are not the permanent employees and that they keep changing from one unit to the other. However, the unit owners do not keep the record of the workers changing jobs frequently. 
 
 On the other hand, it is the diamond unit owners who are liable to pay the professional tax. The diamond workers, who earn on the piece-meal basis, protest when the diamond unit owners deduct professional tax from their wages. 
 
 Mansukh Mangukia, a small unit owner who closed his unit employing 15 workers, said, “The tax officials only target the small people like us, while the big unit owners enjoy all the freedom. The workers are not permanent and we are not going to pay tax from our own pockets.”
 
 Sources said that the annual target of professional tax from the diamond industry is Rs 75 crore. 
 
 Regional chairman of GJEPC, Dinesh Navadiya told TOI, “Diamond workers in small units are not employed on permanent basis and they keep changing from one to other units. The tax officials visit the units and ask the owners to pay tax and threaten action. We have raised this issue with the civic chief as well as the Gujarat CM  .”
 
 Navadiya added, “The unit owners are adamant on scrapping the professional tax from the diamond industry. They have threatened to close the units.” 
 
