PUNE: Until a few months ago, for regular party-hopper Pulkit Grover, weekends usually meant driving down all the way from her   residence to buzzing party spots at the other end of the city, including  , Mundhwa and Vimannagar. All that has changed since several of her favourite haunts branched out right in her backyard, on Baner Road and around Balewadi.

 Towards the end of 2016, the western end of the city has seen a complete transformation with dozens of new restaurants, bars and breweries, lounges and fine-dining options starting operations. While many are offshoots of their original set-ups in the heart of the city, other international chains too have set base here to capture the imagination of the cosmopolitan crowd living in the area—including techies from different parts of the country and the world, families from the core part of the city who have bought bigger homes in the area, to students cashing in on the proximity to their colleges.
 
 On offer, thus, is something for every palate. A growling tummy could choose between traditional Maharashtrian cuisine in a fine-dine set-up, stomach-bursting unlimited food thalis, the best of European and continental preparations or the most sought after names in South Asian and Mediterranean fare. 
 
 A whole bunch of breweries, bars, pubs and lounges have also been recently set-up or are waiting to open their doors to patrons from the area who wouldn’t have to look beyond a few kilometres from their home to savour potions on the rocks or in flagons. There are certainly enough options to take the load off even Hinjewadi, Bavdhan and Pimple Saudagar—the other popular eating-out destinations nearby.
 
 From fine dining options to those looking for a happening nightlife, this part of the city now offers something for everyone, says Haji Zakir Shaikh of  , brand partner of Arthur’s Theme chain of restaurants that has opened its second outlet in the city at Balewadi High Street. 
 
 Elaborating on their choice of location, Shaikh says, “The ethos of our restaurant gels with the upmarket European-style high-street that this area is transforming into. The western part of the city typically attracts a lot of partygoers from Mumbai who no longer need to drive into the city for a fun Friday evening. There are plenty of options lounge spaces, pubs and bar-style night-outs.” 
 
 Proximity to big residential pockets in Baner, Balewadi, Aundh and Pashan is a big advantage, points out Vishan Daswani, partner at the recently opened Panchavati Gaurav on Baner Road. 
 
 “We end up getting diverse customers, from traditional Maharashtrian families to the young IT crowd living nearby who want homestyle food after an evening of drinks to even families looking to celebrate big occasions,” he says.
 
 “Rentals are quite high, but that’s a hazard we have to live-by,” admits Varun Jadhav, partner in the upcoming The Irish Village on Baner Road. 
 
 “The portfolio of Baner and Balewadi has changed completely with so many international F&B brands choosing to set-up base here. This also keeps the competition high, thus keeping prices and overall hospitality customer-friendly,” he adds.
 
 For Grover, a sense of familiarity helps. “Almost every major pub has opened here, or is in the process. It almost seems like we are walking down the streets of Koregaon Park. In the last six months, we have not felt the need to drive down all the way to the eastern end of the city even once. It’s convenient, close-by and the crowd here is also good. In fact, a number of my friends who have their offices in those areas also choose to come here and party as it’s pretty much the same now.”
 
 
