GURUGRAM:   has succeeded in putting nearly 1.8km between its entry gates and NH8, well beyond the 500-metre distance from highways set by the Supreme Court within which liquor cannot be served.

 As the excise department took measurements on Tuesday to decide the fate of Gurugram’s best known hangout, as well as top tier hotels like Leela Ambience, Trident, Oberoi,   and Westin, there was optimism in Cyber Hub that it would be marked ‘safe’. Located metres from NH8, Cyber Hub moved its entry gates deeper into Cyber City last week and tweaked the approach road to make access possible only through a U-turn underpass near the 9B building. Officials didn’t reveal the distance thrown up by their ‘roadometer’ — a unicycle with a measuring device.
 
 A TOI team drove down the same route — a left turn from Shankar Chowk up to building 9B and through the underpass to Cyber Hub — and the meter on our car showed 1.8km.
 
 The outcome of the measurements is crucial to the survival of 34 bars located inside Cyber Hub, which is the heart of Gurugram’s corporate precinct. “We have taken into account motorable distance as per instructions passed on to us,” said H C Dahiya, deputy excise and taxation commissioner.
 
 “But we have also considered visible distance and alternate routes to the outlets to ensure there is no contempt of the Supreme Court order,” he added.
 
 The Supreme Court order also mentions liquor outlets should not be visible from highways either.
 
 Official word on the fate of Cyber Hub is expected to be out on Thursday after the district-level committee formed under the chairmanship of deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh for the exercise analyses the results.
 
 Joining the excise department in the exercise were officials from the  , traffic police, the public works department and the district administration.
 
 Bar owners said they had not heard from the excise department about the outcome of the measurements. “The measurements were concluded by the excise department on Tuesday. We are waiting for the final word, which is likely to be out this week,” said Rahul Singh, president, Haryana chapter, of the National Restaurants Association of India.
 
