KOCHI: More people in the city have turned to cycling as a fitness option as there has been a  . When  , an avid cyclist, moved from   in March 2015, he organized his first casual ride event that saw a turnout of 50 riders. Since then, six such events were organized over the past two years and the health fad has caught up Kochiites.

 The latest event – ‘Gran Fondo’ – slated for February 26, will engage over 150 cyclist on a track starting from Vyttila to Goshree bridge and back to Vyttila. “This is not a race, it is a casual riding event for people to understand the cycling and fitness culture,” said Rathiyappan, who started riding in 2012. The event has two segments, a 30km circuit for amateurs and 50km for regular riders.
 
 He said though the number of riders have gone up, the number of female riders have increased marginally, from one rider in 2015 to 10 in 2017.
 
 Priya S, who started riding a year ago, and recently completed her first 100km circuit said: “I found about cycling groups in Kochi after searching a bit on  . I think the problem is awareness, once the word spreads, eventually, more female riders will get involved.”
 
 Rathiyappan said that the primary objective is for people to meet each other and establish a community, otherwise, 50km is a small feat for regular cyclists. “In Chennai, almost all casual ride events are at least 100km. In Kochi, the cycling community is in its nascent stage, so 50km is good for a casual ride,” he said.
 
 Cyclist appearing for Gran Fondo must first undergo a special training session during which they are taught about their bicycles and how to ride in traffic.
 
 “Cyclists must know a few basic things such as changing the tube of their wheels. Otherwise, it would be quite difficult to get past challenging circumstances,” Rathiyappan said.
 
 Though cycling can be an aerobic workout for city dwellers, it can be dangerous for certain age-groups, said Arun Kumar T, chief physiotherapist at  . He said people beyond 60 must be careful as excessive cycling could lead to degeneration of their knee caps.
 
 “Cycling can worsen arthritic conditions due to increased friction. Riders must always keep their spine straight, otherwise, it could affect their posture. People suffering from vertigo should be careful while riding at high speeds,” he added.
 
 Kumar added that most muscle injuries happen because people don’t take warm ups seriously. Cyclists must devote a significant amount of attention to warm ups and speed progression, he said.
 
