THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The civic body, which is awaiting notification from the state government on interim development order (IDO), will begin preparatory steps in formulation of new   for city this week. A meeting of technical committee constituted by corporation and officials of town planning wing has been scheduled for this week. 

 The   and town planning wing, as part of ensuring transparency in provisions and schemes to be included in master plan, will publish   of each plot for which schemes would be proposed. The town planning department has sought the assistance of Kerala state remote sensing and environment centre to obtain spatial data for the purpose. The updated land data in all wards of the city collected through remote sensing technique will be employed in preparation of new master plan. 
 
 Although the corporation is keen on inclusion of survey numbers, the town planning wing is already dealing with issues regarding resurvey. Many wards come under revenue villages where resurvey is either progressing or yet to be initiated. In such cases the plots designated for various schemes will have to be shown using old survey numbers. 
 
 The matter will come up for discussion in the meeting scheduled for this week. The survey number is being given emphasis considering the past experience when locals took out to open protests citing vagueness in master plan regarding areas earmarked for futuristic purpose. The town planning wing will collect data on the existing land use pattern in all wards. Sector wise study will be initiated and this will be subjected to further verification process by respective ward councillors. Once sector wise proposals are approved by the council, draft plan would be formulated which will then be presented in the council. The draft plan will then be presented in seminars for inclusion of more proposals and it will involve public participation.
 
 The civic body had earlier sought the assistance of state land use board in ascertaining the nature of land which houses various constructions in the wards so as to determine if it was corporation land or private property. Besides basic details on land availability and present nature of utilisation were collected for preparation of master plan.
 
 The civic body and land use board had zeroed in on six wards in the first phase; Kazhakootam, Chanthavila, Kattayikonam, Sreekaryam, Cheruvakkal and Ulloor. The choice of wards was significant as some of these wards had been points of contention between local residents and officials after certain places in   and   were earmarked for various infrastructure projects in the draft master plan-2031. 
 
 The civic body and town planning wing had come under flak after the master plan was published since it was pointed out that projects were envisaged for areas without conducting field visits. Preparation of master plan is a sub-scheme of AMRUT. The objective is to develop common digital geo-referenced base maps and land use maps using Geographical Information System and master plan formulation for 500 cities that are selected as AMRUT Cities.
 
