MUMBAI: After being left in the cold storage for more than four months, the   has been given the green signal begin preparations for the 2017 Indian Premier League (IPL). The newly-appointed four-member committee of administrators (COA) - led by ex-CAG   - gave the go ahead to the Board. The tournament will commence on April 5. A statement issued by the BCCI on Wednesday evening read: "The COA met the concerned (BCCI) officials today to take stock of the urgent and important matters mainly concerning the successful conduct of   2017."

 With a lot of time having been wasted already, Board representatives, in absence of CEO  , convinced the panel to continue with the prevailing procedures for organising the cash-rich event. The statement further read: "The COA has issued directions that the existing processes for availing the services and the appointment of the vendors for IPL will continue for this season."
 
 The 2017 edition has a lot at stake for the BCCI because following this year's tournament, the media rights auction ­ that was earlier scheduled for October 25, 2016 but had to be cancelled ­ will be held. This edition (2017) will also give the BCCI to repair its image and win the hearts of potential investors once again. On its part, the COA has further assured IPL franchisees and all other stakeholders that all preparations will be promptly dealt under the supervision and directions of the COA by the BCCIIPL management team.
 
 February 3 is the last date for registration of players for the auction, following which a date for the auction will be announced at the earliest. Considering the high stakes that IPL carries with it year after year, the BCCI had been sweating the last two months as all their operations had come to a complete standstill in the backdrop of the Supreme Court hearings and the  's stand on implementing reforms.
 
 With the new COA in place, there were once again concerns if interim administrators like historian   - who has clearly never been a fan of the IPL nor cricket's shortest format - would acknowledge that the 2017 edition needs a sprint to be ready in time.
 
 While time will tell if Guha changes his mind on the format and the tournament, he will certainly have a say as IPL operations gain pace. The following are some of the things that the BCCI will have to work on in the shortest time possible to conduct the 2017 edition of the tournament: Broadcast production strategies; Digital New Media strategies; hospitality service; ticketing arrangement with franchises; logistics; marketing & commercial; merchandise; operations; matchday entertainment; opening ceremony; playoffs ticketing; insurance; fan parks. 
 
