MUMBAI: More than  ,000 `farmers' from Mumbai have applied for the state's  . These applications are surprisingly high compared to data released by the state government, which was sourced from the state-level bankers committee ( ).This data showed there were 813 farmers in the city with outstanding loans in their names.Of these, 694 were from Mumbai city and 119 from Mumbai suburbs. But applications received are 23,715 from the island city and 1,620 from Mumbai suburbs.

 Officials said the number 25,000 could be because fishermen and farmers from Mumbai division, which includes areas like   and  , may also have been included. “There is also a possibility that the land belonging to the farmers may be in some other parts of the state but their Aadhaar card may be from Mumbai, so they would have applied from the city ,“ said an official.Experts said that the loan waiver exercise could be riddled with flaws for want to authentic data which neither the state government nor the statelevel bankers committee is be ing able to provide. And this loophole will be exploited by people to misuse the scheme and maximize profits.
 
 The state has received 56.69 lakh applications for the loan waiver scheme. A scrutiny of these applications has brought to light that nearly17 lakh ghost accounts. The state government had estimated 89 lakh farmers would benefit from the scheme, but 56.69 lakh farmers have applied, and 10 lakh women farmers have applied, though their applications were discarded as only either the husband's or the wife's application is to be considered depending on whose loan is higher.And there are 6 lakh applications which have been rejected as they are farmers with other sources of income. 
 
 “We have records of only 72 lakh, the remaining 17 lakh accounts have not shown up in the process.These 17 lakh accounts may be benefitting from government subsidies and schemes for years,“ said an official. Officials added that the bogus accounts have come to light due to Aadhaar seeding of the accounts.
 
