While sports lovers in the country were hooked on to the India-Australia Test series last week and celebrated the victory of   and his men, they overlooked another achievement by Indian athletes in Austria. The Indian contingent at the 2017 Special Olympics and World Winter Games in Austria returned home with a record haul of 73 medals. The Games, which concurrently see special athletes participate in various disciplines and able-bodied athletes compete in select winter sports, were held from March 14 to 25, and saw India give its strongest performance yet. Among the medalists at Austria was the men’s Indian   team, that won the gold in the Floorball Unified Event at the World Winter Games, and that too in its first ever international outing. Two of the eight members of the floorball team are from NCR –   of Gurgaon and   of Bahadurgarh. We speak to them after their triumphant return home.

  
  Pankaj Soni with   
 
  
 Pankaj Soni is a shy 20-year-old who studies in Class XII of the DAV Public School in Gurgaon, Sector 10A. One look at him and you will never be able to imagine that he is actually a world champion athlete. In fact, even the Sector 17A resident finds it hard to believe that he is. He says, “It still hasn’t sunk in. We went to Austria just to get exposure and have a good time. There were so many good teams from Europe and Asia that we never expected a medal, let alone gold.” Pankaj says that the first thing he did after winning the gold was call his mother.
 
  “Even before the medal ceremony, I talked to her via video call because I wanted to give her the news. I am proud that my parents are getting to show off my achievement. When I reached home, they threw a grand party for me. It is all very new for me.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  What makes Pankaj’s feat so special is that he began playing floorball seriously only 18 months ago. He tells us, “I used to compete in swimming and netball but then I came across Anish’s academy in   and enrolled there in 2015. I still think my game is developing. I’m still new to it. But I want to play floorball for as long as I can. The next target is the World Championships in 2019.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 20-year-old Anish Dalal’s biggest grudge is that when he goes out to train with his floorball gear, people assume he is a hockey player. But he hopes that international victories will change that. “People say you are a hockey player like Pillay and Dhyan Chand. Make your country proud. But I play a completely different sport. I hope that with victories like these, more people will know about the sport at least. We are athletes too, representing India. It would be good to have some support,” he says. Anish has been playing floorball for eight years now and in fact, opened an academy to teach other youngsters in Rohtak at the age of 14. He tells us, “I started playing in school and around 2011, I opened a club and academy in Rohtak with a friend. Over the years, I had shifted to coaching and given up playing because my family didn’t support it. In fact, when the trials for Austria were held late last year, I lied to my parents that I had some work in the MDU University, where I studied. I had no intention of playing in the Games. I just wanted to test my mettle in trials. As it so happened, not only did I get selected but we won the whole thing. It’s an unreal feeling.”
 
  
  Anish Dalal has been playing floorball for eight years now, and runs an academy to teach other youngsters in Rohtak (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  Anish, who wants to open up more academies and start professional floorball clubs in other cities now, says that he feels responsible to spread the sport. He says, “As someone who has achieved something, it is my responsibility to take the game to the masses. See, special athletes won so many medals in Austria and there was immense media coverage in Europe. But back home, nobody knew that a contingent had even gone there. That needs to change and that can only happen with greater exposure.” But grudges aside, the Bahadurgarh lad says that for now, he is enjoying his time in the spotlight. “I got to meet my heroes like Mary Kom and was congratulated by the Haryana CM. This is what top athletes must feel like,” he says with a smile.
 
  
  Floorball player Pankaj Soni, a student of class XII of the DAV Public School in Gurgaon, shows off his gold medal from the World Winter Games (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
