PANAJI: Goa Pradesh Congress Committee on Saturday stated that it would make all efforts to unite secular forces against the   but reiterated that it would not compromise on its aim to win the confidence of the people.

 The Congress state unit added that   general secretary Digvijaya Singh would decide the fate of the contentious alliance on January 17 after a meeting with all stakeholders in Goa. “Our aim is to unite those forces that can help us fight the communal forces of BJP, but we will not compromise on the values of the party in desperation to come to power,” AICC secretary Girish Chodankar said.
 
 While the Congress has announced 27 candidates for the coming state assembly elections, it has yet to take a call on the seat-sharing arrangement for the other constituencies and many believe that the party is leaving it to the last moment.
 
 “Work in all 40 constituencies is on. We are ready to contest in all constituencies because we want to win the people,” Chodankar said.
 
 He expressed confidence that the alliance would be formed but asserted that the Congress would not give up the Velim seat where Filipe Nery Rodrigues will contest. “The exact structure of the alliance has not been decided but one thing is certain, we will not compromise on Velim, that is a strong seat for us,” Chodankar said.
 
 Singh is expected to arrive on January 16 and hold several meetings with the Goa Forward Party, Nationalist Congress Party and  . A meeting will also be held with senior Congress leadership and the final decision on the alliance would be taken on January 17.
 
 When asked if there was a possibility of a “friendly fight” in Velim and some other seats with candidates of both parties joining the fray, Chodankar said that he was not familiar with the term ‘friendly fight’.
 
 “We did not create this concept of friendly fight. There is nothing called a friendly fight and we don’t believe in such things. We will fight all as enemies, let me make that clear,” Chodankar said.
 
