PUNE: The fierce weather along with the recent   has scalded vegetables in the fields. The rising temperature has been affecting the flowering process of vegetables and has brought the state's production down by 50% this season, said sources from  .

 The situation is particularly worrisome in Pune, Nashik, Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur that are known to be major vegetable growing areas.
 
 Shriram Gadhave, president of the Vegetable Growers Association of India, told TOI that vegetables that are in the flowering stage have been adversely affected by the recent heatwave and the ongoing temperature conditions in parts of Maharashtra. “The yield of all vegetables has dipped by 50% due to the current weather conditions. The high heat burns the flowers that are meant to fruit later,“ said Gadhave.He added that leafy greens, beans, tomatoes, cauliflower, pointed gourd and cucumbers, among others, have been affected.
 
 Narendra Pawar, who heads a farmer producer company with 2,500 vegetable growers from Pune, Satara and Ahmednagar, said that major vegetable growing districts -Nashik and Pune - have been most-affected. “Water shortage and increasing temperature prevent the vegetable flowers from fruiting, resulting in a 30% to 40% drop in production and supply into markets across Maharashtra. The heat has not only been turning the leaves of vegetable black but is also hampering the growth of plants,“ he said.
 
 According to Gadhave, the high temperature conditions seem to be more conspicuous this year and the major vegetable growing belt in west Maharashtra has been affected the most. “Though the area cultivating vegetables in Maharashtra is huge, production has not been up to the mark this season due to the sudden spike in mercury during the latter half of March and in April. Marathwada and Vidarbha are also reeling under high temperatures but the area cultivating vegetables in these regions is comparatively lesser than Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Nashik districts.“
 
 Meanwhile, Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) sources added that this is the hottest of several summers in the recent past and the increasing heat has already dented the supply of vegetables into Pune's wholesale market by 40%.
 
 An APMC official affirmed that vegetable supply in the wholesale market has dipped off late. “It is not that vegetables deteriorate after arriving in the market; they are rotting in fields due to exposure to high temperature. Almost 40% of the vegetables are destroyed on the field itself owing to the heat,“ the official said.
 
 A senior official from Maharashtra's commissionerate of agriculture (horticulture) said that the shortage of water in such regions coupled with the high heat hampers the fruit-bearing process in plants, leading to a dip in production.
 
