BHOPAL: The school   department will now permit higher secondary and high schools to enrol only 45 students in one classroom in keeping with   (RTE) Act 2009 on student-teacher ratio. The student-teacher ratio should be 45:1 in each class from standard 9 to 12. 

 This year onwards, starting from April, 2017, all   affiliated to   Board of School Education (MPBSE) and Central Board of School Education (CBSE) should keep number of students at 45 in each classroom. Failure to comply with the stipulated student-teacher ratio of 45-1 will invite deaffiliation.
 
 In a recent government gazette published on March 31, the school education department stated there should be sufficient classrooms for students in each higher secondary and high school.
 
 “There shall be sufficient class rooms as per number of classes and sections running in school building compulsorily. No section shall have more than 45 students,” reads the copy of government gazette, a copy of which is with TOI.
 
 Sources in the school education department said private schools often violate student-teacher ratio.
 
 “Many schools often ignore the stipulated ratio between teacher and students for the sake of greater student intake. Presently, some schools have 60 to 70 students enrolled per class. it is not possible to get exact data unless a survey is conducted,” official sources said.
 
 The official document states even if more than 45 students are admitted to a particular class, schools will have to make more sections.
 
 Besides, it has been made mandatory the school seeking recognition should have its own building with separate class rooms for Class 9 and 10, 11 and 12.
 
 In addition to this, one principal room, one office room, one library room, one laboratory in case of high school and 3 for higher secondary
 
 school, a staff room and separate toilet blocks for girls and boys in sufficient numbers shall also be required.
 
 “If there is more than one medium of instruction in any school, the number of class rooms shall also be increased accordingly,” reads the official document.
 
 The new affiliation bylaws also set strict conditions for schools for sports, which includes having at least two sports playgrounds like badminton, table tennis, kabaddi , khokho, volleyball, basketball in school campus.
 
 On safety of students, schools have been asked to submit an NoC or affidavit that there is no criminal record against teaching and non-teaching staff.
 
 “Each school seeking recognition from government shall submit affidavits from all the academic and non-academic staff stating that no case is registered against them under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act 2012 and Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000.”
 
 
