CHENNAI: It was an embarrassing moment for the bureaucrats and treasury benches in the assembly on Thursday when   deputy floor leader S Duraimurugan refused to begin the debate unless senior   turned up for the session.

 Duraimurugan was to speak on the demand for grants for home, prohibition and excise department, the portfolios held by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami.
 
 “Where is DGP? Where is commissioner of police? I will speak only if they turn up in the House,” Duraimurugan said, prompting home secretary Niranjan Mardi to rush out to bring the police officers. Chief secretary Girija Vaidyanathan and others gestured that the officers were in the conference room, close by. DGP (law and order) T K Rajendran and DGP (fire and rescue services) S George rushed in within minutes.
 
 As the debate started, Duraimurugan came down heavily on the state police, charging that the force had become lethargic in crime investigation. Police were unable to crack sensational cases like Ramajayam murder in Trichy and daring robbery in Salem-Chennai train even after several years of the incidents, he said.
 
 Duraimurugan charged that there was rise in incidences of crimes in the state and police could do nothing. He said, “The murder of BJP functionary Sasikumar in Coimbatore is still not resolved. A top Maoist couple and an ISIS sympathizer were arrested by other state police in Tirupur. Don’t these bring disrepute to the police force?”
 
 There was no DGP for TN uniformed services recruitment board and directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption, he said. “Police officers seem to be under stress, either due to abuse from seniors or due to work load. I request you to conduct counselling sessions for them,” Duraimurugan said.
 
 Responding to this, Palaniswami said the crime rate in TN was much lower compared to other states. He said crime rate was high during the previous DMK regime too. On Ramajayam murder, the CM said that 1,100 people had been questioned and the government was awaiting a court order for  .
 
