CHENNAI: I-League debutants   may have marginally improved since the campaign began but they are still without answers for most of their problems. And when they meet   at the   here on Saturday, they are likely to have their task cut out once again. While the hosts are still seeking to open their account this season, little-known Aizawl, coached by  , are yet to lose a game and Chennai City FC coach Robin Charles Raja is very well aware of the threat coming his way.

 "Khalid Jamil brings a lot to the table with his experience. He had done a remarkable job with   and he is continuing that good work with Aizawl. Looking at the points table (they are placed third with 10 points from 4 matches), they certainly look like a threat but we will definitely try and do well. We are improving match by match and I can see that the boys are getting together. We had a good game against Bagan and we will take inspiration from that," said Raja.
 
 Chennai still have a lot of areas to work on and they have failed to show any spark in their attack and their defence has been under constant threat from the opposition. But Raja's worry for now is the lack of goals. "We are not playing badly but the lack of goals is a worry for me. The only goal that has come so far was more due to a momentary slip in defence from the opposition. We are not being able to create opportunities in our attack," rued Raja.
 
 To make matters worse,   captain   will miss the game on Saturday after failing to recover from an injury that he picked up in the last match against Mohun Bagan.
 
 While Aizawl might not be a part of the Big Three in the league, they have been in good form this season and will give CCFC no respite. After giving   a scare in the first match, they maintained their momentum to win the next three matches. But coach Jamil said that there was no room for complacency.
 
 "We are only focused on tomorrow's game and we know we are up against a solid team. There is no question of letting our guard down. They have a strong defence. They have the right balance of good foreign players and mature senior Indian players. So there is no question of taking them lightly. We will just play our normal game," said the former India player.
 
 Aizawl FC will definitely be the favourites on paper but then what are upsets for?
 
