NAGPUR: The Central Board of Secondary   (CBSE) has further clamped down on the way schools recruit principals by making changes to the bylaws governing superannuation. Now only   will be eligible to continue at their post after the age of 60 and that too only with prior approval of CBSE. 

 Until now, the process was fairly simple with even state and CBSE awardees being allowed to continue as principals till the age of 65, and that too without any intervention from CBSE.
 
 This is the second change CBSE has made in the last one month to its bylaws that controls recruitment of principals. Though CBSE did not give any reason for the changes, sources say it’s part of the central board’s ongoing drive against family-owned schools that promote their kin as principals. The other decision includes rejigging the principal selection committee to include CBSE plus state government nominees. This effectively finished off the monopoly school management had on principal hiring. 
 
 The decision on superannuation has come with another rider of age cap. CBSE has pretty much made it clear that after the age of 60, principals can get an extension of only two more years. The board’s secretary Joseph Emmanuel has written to schools saying that the candidate “may be considered for a further extension of service for two years after attaining the age of superannuation subject to meritorious service, impeccable character, sound health, good leadership, management qualities and outstanding results throughout”. Emmanuel adds that the school management should consider ‘exceptionally meritorious cases’, and then forward the details to CBSE for prior approval. While the board leaves a window open for the principal to get an extension, it as mandated that such a proposal will again have to be routed to it. 
 
 TOI has learnt that this entire exercise is focusing on schools where the principal and management belong to the same family. Extensions to principals after retirement are most likely to happen in such an environment and now the CBSE has taken control of the process by asking schools to seek the board’s approval. 
 
 A senior academician from Nagpur said, “The board is really on the lookout for such ‘family’ schools, but here in the city we don’t have any such. In fact, we heard that some official from CBSE was making discreet inquiries with principals if they were aware of such institutions in the state.”
 
 
