Chandigarh: A local court on Tuesday directed the UT SSP to further investigate the rape case of a 10-year-old girl after the DNA of the accused, the maternal uncle of the child, did not match with the baby born to the rape survivor.

 Defence counsel Manjit Singh confirmed that the DNA report submitted in the court was negative. “The DNA samples of the accused and the newborn did not match,” he said. Later in the day, the investigating officer visited the house of the rape survivor. She would record her statement in the court on the next date of hearing on September 15. The rape survivor would also be given counselling to find out more details related to the case.
 
 When SSP Nilambari Vijay Jagdale was contacted, she said she cannot say anything about the report at this stage. “The matter is pending in the court and proceedings are going on,” she said.
 
 The Chandigarh Police had conducted the DNA test of the accused to make its case stronger. The medical proof would have helped the police to get maximum punishment for the accused.
 
 The rape survivor had already identified the accused in court.
 
 The pregnancy and rape case of the 10-year-old had hit national headlines when the Chandigarh district court dismissed abortion application of the minor citing medical reasons. Similarly, the Supreme Court had also dismissed the abortion plea. The rape survivor on August 17 gave birth to a baby girl in Chandigarh .
 
 The case came to light when the girl complained of stomach-ache. A doctor confirmed that she was six months pregnant. The mother, who is the complainant, came to know that the girl’s maternal uncle had carried out the rape. After police investigation, it came to light that the accused had allegedly raped the girl six to seven times.
 
 DNA REPORT NEGATIVE
 
 July 14| FIR registered against maternal uncle of the girl
 
 July 18 | Chandigarh district court dismissed the abortion plea of the girl, citing medical reasons
 
 July 28 | Supreme Court dismissed abortion plea of the girl
 
 August 17 | The rape survivor delivered a baby girl in GMCH
 
 August17 | DNA test of the accused conducted
 
 August 25| Charge-sheet against the accused filed
 
 August 30 | Court framed charges against the accused
 
 August 31 | Rape survivor and her mother recorded their statement in court
 
 September 12 | DNA report came negative
 
 
