NAGPUR: The Orange City   (OCW) workers have repaired the damaged water pipeline that supplied sewage-laced drinking water in Lumbini Nagar and part of Mecosabag Christian Colony in North Nagpur since April 1.

 Two illegal connection by a slum resident was the reason for contamination of drinking water in the area, OCW’s supervisor Saurav Rajput said.
 
 On Saturday, around 100 residents of these two localities received gutter water flowing through the drinking water pipelines. Some residents who consumed the contaminated water fell ill. Those who used the water for bathing developed skin rashes.   had reported the plight of the residents of Lumbini Nagar and the poor quality of water supplied in the area on April 5.
 
 TOI also highlighted these problems and drew the corporation officials' attention. Finally, the OCW workers have repaired the damaged drinking water pipeline.
 
 Harish Dhabarde, a resident of the locality, said that the OCW’s team spotted two damages in the pipeline due to one illegal connection. Dhabarde’s wife had fallen ill and was suffering from serious bout of vomiting and diarrhoea because of contaminated water.
 
 Rajput told TOI that the problem come to fore on April 1 but the OCW’s team were struggling to identify the source of contamination. It had forced many residents to either use well water or depend on tankers instead.
 
 But on Wednesday the team finally traced two sources of contamination. Further investigation revealed that the pipelines got damaged due to an attempt of one illegal connection in Lumbini Nagar slum and one damaged house service connection in the pipeline. “The illegal connection on 150mm DIA pipeline was embedded in concrete was leaking,” he said. “We have permanently disconnected both HSC and illegal connection,” he added. The OCW also flushed the entire pipeline and now residents are getting pure water. 
 
 "The residents of the area are thankful to the TOI for the timely report and the corporation's immediate action,” said Dhabarde.
 
