Neymar, Toni Kroos, Mario Gotze and James Rodriguez are just a few football superstars of today who first served notice of their talents at the Fifa Under-17 World Cup. Here, TOI takes a look at a few names likely to make heads turn not just at the 2017 edition in India but in the years to come. 

 
 
 You won’t get a more accurate measure of this Brazilian wonder kid’s worth than the fact that European champions Real Madrid have already beaten the competition to his signature. And Vinicius was still 16 when the La Liga giants announced his reported €45 million capture from Flamengo back in May. While Fifa transfer rules mean the deal only comes into effect from next July when Vinicius turns 18, the spearhead of Brazil’s attack is sure to give Indian fans of Los Blancos a sneak preview of the wizardry that’s led to him being dubbed ‘the new Neymar’.
  
 
 
 
 The American striker is quite literally blessed with great football genes. He is, after all, the son of former AC Milan and Paris St Germain star George Weah — who scaled the peak of his game in 1995 when he won the Ballon d’Or and FIFA World Player of the Year. Tim is more than aware of his father’s standing in the game. And while it’s inevitably led to many telling him he’s “not going to be as good as him (his father)”, he’s already begun following in Weah senior’s footsteps having signed his first professional contract with PSG in July. 
 
 
 
 You’ve got to be special in order to impress the ‘Special One’. The final day of the 2016-17 season saw Gomes make history when Jose Mourinho introduced him as a late second half substitute for then Manchester United captain Wayne Rooney against Crystal Palace. It made the talented attacking midfielder, who was snapped by the Red Devils as a 13-year-old, the first player born in this millennium to make a Premier League appearance. A cousin of former United star Nani, Gomes will be eager to make amends for missing out on England’s march to the final of this year’s European Under-17 Championship through injury.
 
 
 
 Teams that come up against Germany will be fully aware of the threat Arp poses in the penalty area. At the Under-17 Euro finals in May, 13 minutes was all it took him to score a hat-trick against Bosnia and Herzegovina in a group stage match. Arp followed that up with another triple against Republic of Ireland and finished the tournament as second highest goal scorer (7 goals). It was reportedly enough for the likes of Juventus, Chelsea and Borussia Dortmund to sit up and take notice. Arp, however, had no hesitation in putting pen to paper on a two-year deal with childhood club Hamburger SV.
 
 
 
 Pipped Jann-Fiete Arp in the race to the top goal scorer’s crown at the Under-17 Euro finals. Gouiri’s eight strikes in Croatia matched the record tally of goals scored in an Under-17 European Championship with compatriot Odsonne Edouard netting the same number in France’s victorious 2015 campaign. The Lyon forward also demonstrated his knack for delivering in crunch situations when he scored the only goal in the World Cup play-off against Hungary that sealed France’s ticket to India 2017. Gouiri will be the key to Les Bleuets’ hopes of going past the quarterfinals for the first time since they won the title in 2001. 
 
 
 
 Another proud creation of La Masia — Barcelona’s famed youth academy — Ruiz is the captain of the reigning Euro Under-17 champions. He played an instrumental role in steering La Rojita to their third Under-17 continental crown in May, scoring four goals and providing three assists, becoming joint-top scorer with Portugal’s Jose Gomes (16 goals) in the competition’s history (including qualifiers) in the process. Despite Spain’s success at European level though, they are yet to win a World Cup in the Under-17 category, having finished runners-up on three occasions. But in Ruiz and Mateu Morey, the former’s roommate at La Masia, there is hope of that changing in India.
 
 
