AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad district police have decided to rope in about 800   and deputy sarpanches from about 465 villages in the district to form the first line of defence against   and the brewing of  . The move comes in the wake of two   that occurred in Surat within six months.

  Police officials claim formalities required for the initiative have been completed and soon they will call a meeting of newly elected village representatives and ask them to work to curb the liquor menace by identifying country liquor breweries and stopping the sale of hooch.
 
 “We will assure these village representatives about all possible assistance in crackdowns on liquor dens. It is obvious that village representatives play a major role in the development of villages, and eradication of liquor menace from their areas comes under their responsibility,” said SP-Rural, Rajendra Asari.
 
 Police said they are in the process of identifying places with breweries and liquor dens.
 
 “We have already beefed up patrolling in some areas of Viramgam, Daskroi and Ghuma, which are notorious for brewing and selling of country liquor,” said a senior police official.
 
 Asari said the strategy is well-tested as they had called a similar meeting of sarpanches and deputy sarpanches just before the gram panchayat elections.
 
 “We told them that being elected representatives of their respective villages, it is their responsibility to keep mischief mongers away from the elections. The results were there for all of us to see. The elections were held peacefully,” Asari added.
 
 TOI also spoke to some of the newly elected sarpanches. Most of them appreciated police efforts to involve people’s representatives in battling the liquor menace.
 
 “At present, we have no country liquor breweries in our area. However, if sarpanches are given this responsibility, they can put an end to liquor menace,” said sarpanch of Sokali village in Viramgam, Sata Bharward.
 
 Sarpanch of Visalpur village in Daskroi taluka, Arvind Patel, said they ensured that the flow of liquor during the recent panchayat elections was curbed. The present village body has even vowed to keep liquor away from the village.
 
 
