PUNE: The Maharashtra state board of secondary and higher secondary education is considering eventually scrapping the 10-minute reading time given to students before the exam.

 The move follows repeat instances of question papers of   ( , Std XII) examination going viral between 10.30am and 11am, half an hour before the start of the exam. 
 
 State board chairman Gangadhar Mhamane said that a policy decision was required on scrapping this rule and that the board was conducting discussions. He added that no decision would be taken right now.
 
 Mhamane said, “The paper leak on both the occasions took place after 10.40am. The question paper is usually handed over to students in class by 10.50am so that students can see the questions. The answer sheets are handed over at 11am. The aim will be to find out the root cause of the mischief.”
 
 During this ten-minute period, students can only read the question paper and not write anything on the answer sheet.
 
 In Latur, the political science question paper for HSC exam was allegedly shared through instant messaging app WhatsApp within 15 minutes after it began on Saturday, prompting authorities to lodge a complaint against the exam centre chief, invigilator, a peon and a student.
 
 Mhamade added that a decision on whether the 10-minute reading time should be scrapped would be thought about after proper investigation and discussions take place. He said, “We will have to make a policy decision if we decide to scrap this scheme, but not too soon. First we will check the police report on the matter and only then take decision.”
 
 Meanwhile, state education minister Vindo Tawde said, “It would be unfair for lakhs of students if the 10-minute reading time is scrapped.”
 
 Usually, the state board hands over the question paper to the custody of every district. Then an official appointed by the state board a runner transports the papers to the exam centre. It is their responsibility to hand over the papers to the centre head by 10.30am. After 10.30 am, the exam center officials are responsible for the papers, officials explained. 
 
 In 2015, Tawde had proposed distributing question papers to students 10 minutes before the scheduled exam time and the practice was started immediately in the board examinations for both HSC and SSC.
 
 
