Twenty of the 1.95 lakh candidates who took CAT 2016 have managed to crack it with a perfect score. Male engineers continued to dominate the toppers’ list this year, too. The number of 100 percentilers is the highest in the last six years but not a single woman is in the top slot. Last year, one of the 17 toppers was a girl.

 “In the sectionals, however, many non-engineers and female candidates have scored 100 percentile (sic),” professor Rajendra K Bandi, convener, CAT 2016, said in a release from  . The results were announced on Monday on the institute’s website and sent to individual candidates via SMS. The institute intends to release candidate profile details after the interviews.
 
 According to results data from previous years, there were nine 100 percentilers in 2011, 10 in 2012, eight in 2013, 16 in 2014 and 17 in 2015. Sixty-seven per cent of the candidates who registered for the test were men. The test was conducted on December 24 in 138 cities. With weightage given to CAT by individual IIMs falling every year, the test score is not the deciding factor in getting a place in an   of choice.
 
 Of the 20 toppers this year at least three are from Delhi, two are from Kolkata and one each from Mumbai, Pune and Chennai. From Delhi, Rahul Sharma, Akshay Mehndiratta and Arpit Singh are among the 100 percentilers. Mehndiratta, an IIT-Delhi graduate, managed the perfect score in his second attempt. “I had scored 99.34 in my last attempt and did not get a call from an IIM of my choice. Now, with this score, I intend to get an offer from the three leading IIMs,” he said.
 
 Singh, also an IIT-Delhi student, received a perfect score in his first attempt. “I started studying in May 2015, and did a 6-month course. I took a break and then went back to cracking the mock tests till December,” he said. Sharma, on the other hand, is a CAT trainer who gave the exam for the first time in 2008 and went on to graduate from IIM-Ahmedabad. He wanted to study the changing pattern.
 
 From Maharashtra, Yash Choudhari, who is completing his studies from College of Engineering, Pune, has managed to crack the most competitive test for admissions to the premier IIMs in his first attempt. “I wrote a mock test almost every day till the exam date. It was difficult, but I have managed to crack it,” said Choudhari, originally from  .
 
 “I don’t know which IIM I will get through because the interviews will be the deciding factor. I am very fond of mathematics so my aim is to major in finance,” he added.
 
 The candidate from Mumbai who managed to get a perfect score, Patrick D’Souza, 40, is a CAT trainer and has been appearing for the test for the last 12 years. He has been among the 100 percentilers twice before — once in 2007 and then in 2009. “I appear for the test only to understand the changing pattern in CAT and use it to coach my students,” said D’Souza, who has already done an MBA from Mumbai’s Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies. This year, Kolkata managed to get two candidates in the top slot. Avidipto Chakraborty of Salt Lake has taken the exam from Mumbai and is currently interning at Nomura.
 
 A student at  , Goa, Chakraborty wishes to pursue a career in consulting.
 
 “This was my first attempt at CAT. I had appeared in the GMAT examination in 2016 and my score is 770 out of 800. My preparation in Verbal Ability for GMAT was sufficient to crack CAT,” an elated Chakraborty said from Mumbai. He has options galore now. “I have a job offer from McKinsey, which is my dream company.
 
 Even after management I would want to join a consulting firm. Apart from CAT, I have also cracked the Indian School of Business exam. I hold a good GMAT score. In the IIFT exam I’ve secured 99.99 percentile. If I can convert the first three top IIM’s, then I can take a call,” said Chakraborty.
 
 Nilanjan Dutta, another 100 percentiler, is the odd man out. He already holds an MBA degree from XLRI with majors in finance and marketing but yet took CAT, bagged the best score and still hasn’t applied to any of the IIMs. He took the exam just to test his abilities.
 
 
 
 
