CHANDIGARH: After holding a protest march over   (SYL) canal in Punjab,   party   (INLD) on Monday threatened to gherao the parliament on March 15.

 Leader of opposition and senior INLD leader   announced the same at INLD office in Chandigarh after he was released from the Patiala jail along with other party members.
 
 Reiterating that INLD is ready for any sacrifice for SYL canal water, Abhay said the party has now decided to take a decisive step to resolve the issue and would continue its protests.
 
 He alleged that chief minister   had no right to hold the post as he had not been given time by the Prime Minister to discuss the SYL canal issue for the last three and half months. He also said in the all party meeting, Khattar had promised to fight jointly on the matter, but now he was not supporting those fighting for the cause.
 
 Abhay Chautala also claimed that he has also sought an appointment to meet the PM, and if they were not granted time, INLD workers would gherao (besiege) the parliament and hold a protest at Jantar Mantar on March 15. Chautala also said they would also submit the resolutions passed by 6,843 village panchayats of Haryana on SYL canal to the PM.
 
 He also claimed that to stop him and party workers from digging SYL canal on February 23, the Punjab government had made arrangements as if they were entering into Pakistan.
 
 Abhay also claimed that he along with his party workers who were arrested by Punjab Police on February 23, had not applied for bail, but were released by the cops on their own.
 
 Meanwhile, Abhay Chautala along with 72 other party leaders reached INLD office in Sector 3, Chandigarh on Monday under heavy security cover of Punjab Police. After dropping the INLD leaders, the police contingent returned to Patiala.
 
 Prominent among those present on the occasion were Hisar MP Dushyant Chautala, INLD’s Haryana unit chief Ashok Arora, senior leader Rampal Majra, Dabawali MLA Naina Chautala, Julana MLA Parminder Singh Dhull and other MLAs and office-bearers of the party.
 
