AHMEDABAD: Retired IPS officer  , who is an accused in   and   encounter cases, is all set to contest the  . However, he has not revealed whether he will contest from any party or as an independent candidate. “People of Gujarat want me to contest the 2017 assembly polls. I will definitely fulfil their wish. Other details will be revealed at the right time,” Vanzara said.

  The former IPS officer is currently out on bail in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh and Ishrat Jahan   cases. He has lived in his Gandhinagar house ever since he was allowed to return to Gujarat in April 2016 following modification in his bail condition. Ever since his return to Gujarat, Vanzara has been very active in public life. He has toured different parts of North Gujarat and Saurashtra and attended functions organised to felicitate him. Ever since he set foot in Gujarat, Vanzara has been giving indications that he would enter public life. 
 
 “For me, 2017 assembly election is the right time to make a foray into public life. I am confident that I will win,” he said confidently. In fact, Vanzara has been preparing for a public life for long. In September 2016, the former cop launched an NGO, ‘Justice for victims of terrorism’, with an intention to provide legal assistance to cops booked for alleged fake encounters. Former Gujarat DGP SS Khandwawala is the chairperson of the NGO while retired Maharashtra DGP, KP Raghuvanshi, is the vice-chairperson.
 
 Former special director of Intelligence Bureau and a co-accused in the 2004 Ishrat Jahan encounter case, Rajinder Kumar was the special guest at the launch function of the NGO held at Tagore Hall, Ahmedabad, in October 2016.
 
 Sources close to Vanzara said he may contest from Himmatnagar. “His native village, Illol, is located in the same district.” 
 
 Incidentally, the CBI had alleged that the body of Kauserbi, Sohrabuddin Sheikh’s wife, was burnt on the outskirts of this village. While in jail, Vanzara had shot a letter saying that he used to adore Narendra Modi like God but the latter could not rise to the occasion under the evil influence of Amit Shah.
 
 
