Udayan Chakravarty

 This ‘advertising is evil’ rubbish gets to you now and then. For the longest time, I was traumatised enough to start believing in it.
 
 This one time, I met a girl at a party who was working in alternative energy. She rounded out her job description with what was, no doubt, a self-effacing, ‘You could well say I’m working to save the world’. “What a coincidence,” I replied, “I’m working to destroy it.”
 
 Thing is, any art frat you walk into instantly vilifies you for what you do. Occasionally, there’s some understated appreciation soliciting a commission. Or (and this happens very rarely) a grudging admission that typically goes like, ‘Oh well, it worked’.
 
 ‘The bastard children of art’ is a phrase I’ve heard. ‘The rabid dogs of capitalism’ is another. Oddly enough, we aren’t the ones frothing at the mouth. Many conversations take the shape of veiled accusations, mostly around the space of, ‘I am an artist which somehow makes me better than you’.
 
 Or the form of a loaded question: ‘How do you sleep at night?’
 
 The first point, stemming from the nub of what I feel to be a rather self-indulgent narcissism, I won’t dignify with a response. To the second point, here’s a rejoinder. Most moral probes into the nature of   are driven by an extremely elitist and, as per my estimate, massively flawed assumption. That people are idiots. That they operate like a giant herd of irrational drones who take their orders from films they see online, from 30/45-second TV commercials they can’t be bothered to turn off, from jingles on the radio they’re forced to listen to, from magazine ads they’re incapable of flipping, or from roadsides posters and hoardings from which they can’t avert their eyes (‘Careful daddy, you’re driving into a... Boom!’).
 
 Well, here’s some news: People aren’t idiots. As a matter of fact, they’re really smart. They ignore what they don’t like. And only listen up if what the ad is saying makes sense to them. Or if it’s charming enough for them to want to play along.
 
 Just because a corporation has the money to make and publish an ad doesn’t mean people want to see it. Ads worth crores have bombed with no one giving a damn. Those that have been successful haven’t been so because of some secret brainwashing technique. It’s because, believe it or not, people liked them. For what they said and for how they said it. And these people chose to voluntarily buy what those ads were selling.
 
 Is that which is being sold right? You and I don’t get to decide. Non-partisan bodies, with the expertise and wherewithal to make those judgements, do. Can we consider as acceptable the way in which people buy? We don’t get to decide that either. We can tell people how we feel. But eventually, they get to call the shots. And we better make our peace with that because any argument against it is, essentially, an argument against democracy.
 
 Is it right for a corporation to be creative in how it sells its wares? Of course it is. By all means, run it down, say what you have to against it, go to town dragging it through the mud, but don’t ask it to shut up. That goes against everyone’s basic freedom of expression.
 
 How do I feel about being employed in the enterprise? Privileged. The opportunity to create conversations ambitious enough to want to touch billions of lives is the ultimate challenge, one that every creative professional should aspire towards. Is the conversation good or bad?
 
 The writer is creative director, Wieden+Kennedy
 
 
