PUNE: The   has given a nod to the   to go ahead with the expansion work on the 15.84 acre defence land even as its transfer to the Pune international airport is pending after it was announced last year.

 A senior AAI official said a meeting was held with Air Force authorities in Pune on Monday during which the issue was discussed. The official said tenders for the jobs related to the expansion work would be floated shortly, following the IAF’s nod and most of the work, particularly related to construction of a new terminal building, will be completed within three years.
 
 “The AAI wants to begin the expansion work without any delay. The IAF has given the AAI permission to begin work on the defence land. The recent meeting focused on the modalities and the terms and conditions. The site survey work has already started and the tendering process will be initiated soon,” the official told TOI not willing to comment on whether the actual transfer of the land had taken place or not.
 
 After getting an in-principal nod from defence minister   for transferring the land to Pune airport authorities in May last year, the   (AFS), Pune, had constituted a board of officers to study the case.
 
 “The board submitted its report giving its consent to the   (DEO), Pune, a few months ago. The board’s report has been submitted to Principal Directorate Defence Estates, Southern Command, for further action. Now, the directorate has told   (SWAC), Gandhinagar, under which the AFS, Pune, falls, to comment on the board’s report. Once we get the SWAC comments, the final proposal will be sent to the ministry of defence,” sources in defence told TOI.
 
 Officials from AAI said the expansion plan included quite a few things for Pune airport and that they wanted to start the work without any delay.
 
 “The question of land transfer is something which only senior officials and authorities will be able to comment on. However, the same is not a hindrance as the IAF has given us the permission to proceed with the work and the site survey has been initiated. Though an exact time-frame cannot be given, but we expect that the major works will be completed in three years — by the end of 2019 or early 2020,” the official added.
 
 “The issue of constructing a new airport is with senior officials. The existing airport needs to be revamped with better facilities. Developmental works cannot wait. The AAI is mainly focusing on expansion of the existing airport,” the official pointed out.
 
 The Lohegaon airport is a part of the IAF’s strategically vital base for two squadrons of its front line multi-role combat aircraft, the Sukhoi 30 Mk-I. The runway and the air traffic control are managed by the AFS, while the civil enclave is managed by AAI.
 
 (With inputs from Sandip Dighe)
 
