SUNAM (SANGRUR): Rejecting claims of success in the war against drugs made by Punjab chief minister Captain   and DGP Suresh Arora, Congress MLA from Amargarh   said on Monday that 'chitta' (euphemism for  ) was still being sold in the streets. 

 Refusing to follow the protocol of the state-level function organized in the new grain market in Sunam town of Sangrur to pay tributes to Udham Singh on his martyrdom day, the Amargarh legislator chose to speak about the drug trade and claimed it was continuing in the state.
 
 He said, "Everyone knows 'chitta' is still being sold on the streets and people behind this are widely known individuals."
 
 Dhiman said the conviction with which CM Amarinder had launched the war against drugs lost steam after the initial 15 days. He even called for a people's movement to eradicate the vice, adding that CM's vision to see a drug-free Punjab could never materialize without the active support of the masses.
 
 The MLA's statement left the Congress leadership present in the function red-faced. Cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot later made attempts to downplay Dhiman's assertions claiming that the war against drugs was an ongoing process and those still active would flee Punjab soon. He blamed the 10 years of SAD-BJP 'misrule' for the current mess and said it could not be 'cleared' in a few months.
 
 He skirted all questions related to the statement made by the  , but stated he would ask Dhiman about the active drug traders and would take action soon.
 
 Earlier addressing the gathering, Dharamsot exhorted the youths to draw inspiration from Udham Singh and take a pledge to eradicate drugs. The minister also announced that Punjab government would soon revive the Rs 12-crore project to construct a museum at Sunam in the memory of the martyr, which had been left in a limbo by the previous government.
 
 Sangrur MLA Vijay Inder Singla, Dhuri MLA Dalvir Singh Goldy,   president and Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and   vice-president Daman Thind Bajwa were among those who attended the homage function.
 
