NEW DELHI:   witnessed an uproar on Friday as Congress MPs forced repeated adjournments of the   alleging that the   police had "abducted" an   in the state with an eye on influencing the outcome of the upcoming Rajya Sabha polls. The House was adjourned four times in the morning session as Congress members trooped into the well, raising anti-government slogans and charging the BJP with “stealing” MLAs to help its candidates win the Rajya Sabha polls. When the House met at 2.30 pm finally after four adjournments in the pre-lunch session, minister of state for parliamentary affairs   demanded that the opposition tender an apology to Gujarat for tarnishing its image.

 “This morning during the Zero Hour and Question Hour, Leader of the Opposition (Ghulam Nabi Azad) and Anand Sharma had made objectionable statements to defame Gujarat. They said Gujarat which was earlier a safe haven for state encounters has witnessed kidnapping of an MLA for stealing of votes. The leader of the opposition, chief whip (in Gujarat) ... have deserted the (Congress) party, MLAs are quitting...,” Naqvi said asking the opposition to apologise to Gujarat.
 
 Asking the Congress members to indulge in “self introspection”, he said despite “getting (politically) battered, the party has not realised the gravity (Inka band- baaja baj chuka hai, aur uske baad bhi inko ehsaas nahin hai)”. In the morning session, Deputy Chairman P J Kurien first adjourned the proceedings for 10 minutes soon after the House assembled as Congress leaders, including Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma, raised the issue. Similar scenes were repeated.
 
 Azad said he was not raising the issue of three Congress MLAs who had resigned from the party, one of whom was named the BJP candidate for Rajya Sabha polls.
 
 He said Punabhai Gamit, MLA from reserved constituency of Vyara, after attending district Congress executive committee, had gone for a tea to another MLA’s house when district superintendent of police “abducted” him.
 
 The police officer, he alleged, told the MLA that Congress has decided not to give him a ticket for the upcoming assembly elections and he should leave the party and join BJP.
 
 Azad alleged that the police officer who picked the Congress MLA up was the one who was arrested in a fake encounter case. The MLA managed to flee when he asked the police officer to allow him to get a changeover of clothes, he claimed.
 
 “You are stealing MLAs by using the police (to garner votes),” Azad said, adding “You should be ashamed.”
 
 Outside the House, BJP termed Congress allegations as baseless and asked them to do self assessment about why even its senior most leaders are fed up with the party. "Congress allegations imply as if entire Congress is tradable. It is ironic that even their leader of opposition has quit the party even then they are accusing the BJP," said BJP spokesperson Anil Baluni. He said exodus of Congress MLAs reflects inefficiency of leadership. 
 
