PATNA: Sounds unbelievable, but it is a fact that a number of   from foreign countries want to pursue their higher studies in the universities of Bihar. However, the lack of clear-cut instructions from the state government for admission of foreign students to the local colleges and universities has proved to be a great deterrent.

 A couple of days back, the Patna University (PU) academic council discussed the issue of admission of foreign scholars to different courses and decried the inordinate delay in clearance of applications. “The council ultimately decided to write to the state government for seeking its permission to admit foreign students in its different courses,” said a source, adding a number of applications from countries like Fiji, Sudan and Mauritius were pending with the university for want of clear instructions from the government.
 
 Recently, the UGC had sought detailed information from the state universities on international collaboration in academics and research and the number of overseas students pursuing different courses. But, as things stand today, barring Magadh University (MU), very few foreign students can be found studying in any college or university department. In MU, some scholars from South-East Asian countries are enrolled in the department of Ancient Indian and Asian Studies.
 
 Sources in PU said until about three to four decades back, at least 50 students from countries like Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Malaysia, Iran and Sri Lanka used to study different courses in PU alone. But, at present, the number of foreign students admitted to the university has come to a naught. A few years back, some students from Nigeria had joined PU, but they are not to be found anywhere today.
 
 Many students from south-eastern and even European countries appear eager to do courses on Indian culture and society, religions, social linguistics, Indian polity and economy, Buddhist studies, biodiversity and aquaculture. “The state universities will certainly attract foreign students if these courses are introduced properly and the rules governing admission of foreign scholars are made easier,” said a PU academic council member.
 
 
