HYDERABAD:   (NFC) here has set a world record in the production of Pressurised Heavy Water Reactor (PHWR) fuel bundles.

 NFC, which is the industrial arm of the  , provides fuel to all operating nuclear power reactors in the country.
 
 During the year 2016-17, NFC achieved a record production of 1,512 metric tonnes of PHWR fuel bundles. NFC has also achieved the highest production of 1,154 MT of Zirconium oxide power and 759 MT of Zirconium Sponge from its production units at Hyderabad and Zirconium Complex (ZC), Pazhayakayal in  , to meet the Zircaloy requirements of the PHWRs and Boiler Water Reactors (BWRs).
 
 A function was organised to celebrate the occasion at NFC on Thursday. G Kalyanakrishnan, chairman & chief executive, NFC, congratulated all the employees for the achievement.
 
 NFC has the technology to manufacture seamless tubes and meets the critical requirements of the departments of   energy, space and defence. This includes meeting requirements of the Light Combat Aircraft (LCA), battle tanks, missiles, supercritical boilers and the BrahMos.
 
 NFC will also expand its facilities to meet the future requirement of a total of 20 PHWRs of 700 MW, which are proposed to be established in a phased manner across the country.
 
 NFC-Kota with '2,400 crore is being established for augmenting the existing facilities at Hyderabad campus and Zirconium Complex, Pazhayakayal, in Tamil Nadu.
 
 According to officials, the Nuclear Fuel Complex, also manufactures sub-assemblies and special requirements of Prototype Fast Breeder Reactor (PFBR) being set up at Kalpakkam, Tamil Nadu.
 
 Indigenisation of critical and special purpose equipment is also part of NFC's endeavour for promoting 'Make in India“.
 
 Officials said the in-house development of industrial scale electrocoagulation unit for bringing down the uranium levels in water to less than 60 ppb and commissioning it to treat the processed water is an achievement.
 
 This also can be extended for treatment of water at various locations with high uranium content.
 
