NASHIK: The   ( ) has been urged to develop the proposed additional   near Dindori on a war footing.

  also demanded that the MIDC start allotment of industrial plots at the earliest. 
 
 Earlier, the MIDC had announced concessional rates for industrial plots at the proposed industrial estate, but it has not yet started allotment of plots.
 
 The new industrial estate will be of 500 acres at the Talegaon-Akrale villages of Dindori tehsil in the district, but the MIDC’s work is moving at a snail’s pace to develop the infrastructure.
 
 Mangesh Patankar, vice-president of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association, said, “The authority has started developing the infrastructure works there, but it needs to speed up to get the new estate ready for the new industries. This new proposed industrial estate will provide options for the new industries wanting to set up their base.” 
 
 The industries also want the MIDC to start allotment of plots at least to micro, small and medium enterprises. Infrastructural works worth Rs 54 crore have already begun at Dindori, which include construction of internal roads, jack-well, pump house and laying of water pipelines between the new industrial estate and Palkhed dam for supply of water to the industries. 
 
 “Last year, the MIDC had announced concessional rates of Rs 2,300 per sq metre for the proposed estate for six months which has now been increased to Rs 3,000 per sq metre,”an industrialist said. 
 
 He added, “The time frame of six months got over on September 30 last year. Now, the rates of Rs 3,000 per sq metre are applicable there. The industries could not avail of this facility as no allotment of plots was started. So, we want the MIDC to continue the same concession while allotting the plots there,” 
 
 The high rates is what has become a matter of worry for the industrialists. M G Kulkarni, president of North Maharashtra unit of   said, “Costly land rates are the major hurdle before the industries. Maximum investment goes in land only. Actually, the investment is needed in building and machineries. The MIDC needs to provide land to the industries at nominal rates.”
 
