VISAKHAPATNAM:   on transferring funds from mobile wallets to bank accounts are turning out to be a dampener for shopkeepers who had switched to accepting payments through the digital route. 

 According to shopkeepers, while service charges were waived off till the end of December, it resumed since January 1. Some of the mobile wallets are charging around 1% service charge for KYC (know your customer) and around 4% service charge for   account holders for using their services, shopkeepers using mobile wallets said.
 
 “Earlier, we had the problem of having only Rs 20,000 limit for mobile wallets. But, now in addition to this, mobile wallets are charging 1% out of the total money we want to transfer to and from our bank accounts. For small shops like ours, we have a small profit margin and if we keep paying service charges for mobile wallets, we will not be able to make good profits,” said shopkeeper Buchi Ramana of Pedawaltair. 
 
 At the same time, he said, “Even if we to transfer from our mobile wallet to another none of the distributors are willing to take it.”
 
 At the same time, another shopkeeper at Sagarnagar, Ramakrishna Rao said, “The cash flow has improved a little now, so we are insisting on cash payments. We are not able to spend the money in the mobile wallet so we have decided to transact only with cash. Last month only I had reached the Rs 20,000 limit and now if I have to transfer it to my bank account, I have to pay Rs 200 as service charge. If I take in cash, then there is no service charge.”
 
 However, bank officials said shopkeepers may switch to the newly-launched   in order to avoid service charge as the app is directly linked to the bank account and funds can be transferred immediately without any delays. Speaking to TOI, a bank official said, “As per the details we have received, there are no charges for transaction through BHIM or any   app. However, banks may in future charge a nominal fee. But as of now none of the banks are charging any fees.” 
 
 He said more people will be interested in using digital or mobile wallet payments if service charges are removed. “Otherwise, shopkeepers will surely think why they have to unnecessarily pay extra for switching to digital mode,” the official added.
 
 Earlier, we had the problem of having only Rs 20,000 limit for mobile wallets. But, now in addition to this, mobile wallets are charging 1% out of the total money we want to transfer to and from our bank accounts. For small shops like ours, we have a small profit margin and if we keep paying service charges for mobile wallets, we will not be able to make good profits
 
 Bank officials asked shopkeepers to switch to newly-launched BHIM app in order to avoid service charge as the app is directly linked to the bank account and funds can be transferred immediately without any delays.
 
 
