LUDHIANA: A youth barged into a house and stabbed a woman and her daughter in Amarpura on Tuesday night. The accused used a screwdriver to stab them and when the injured -- Surjit Kaur, 47, and Monica, 26, -- raised the alarm, he fled the spot.

 Police said both the women were alone at home in the night, as Surjit’s husband and son had gone to work. Around 8pm, the youth, who was in his early twenties, entered the house and repeatedly stabbed Monica. On hearing her screams, when her mother, who was in the kitchen, rushed to rescue her, the youth attacked her too. They raised the alarm, and the youth ran away. Neighbours took them to   Hospital. The hospital staff informed the police.
 
 Investigating officer from division number 2 police station   Major Singh said the main door of the house was open and Monica was in the lobby. She was stabbed thrice -- on shoulder, in chest and abdomen. Her mother suffered minor injuries and was discharged on Wednesday. Monica’s condition is stated to be critical. Police said prima facie it appeared that the miscreant wanted to kill Monica.
 
 The ASI said Monica was not in a condition to give statement. “Her statement will make the picture clear, as the family does not suspect anyone,” he added.
 
 Police said the image of the attacker has been captured in a CCTV camera installed in the locality, but the footage was not clear enough to identify him. Cops are also scanning the CCTV cameras installed near the locality.
 
 The police have recorded the statement of Surjit Kaur and lodged an FIR under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 452 (trespassing) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons) of the IPC.
 
 Stabbings this year
 
 March 29: Sukhwinder Kaur, 42, of Gagandeep Colony, Bhattiya village, stabbed to death in front of her daughter by her brother-in-law Sukhdev Singh. The woman was sweeping the floor when the accused attacked her. He did not heed to her daughter’s pleas not to kill her mother. The accused stabbed her as she had been asking her sister-in-law to divorce him.
 
 March 29: Seven unidentified miscreants stabbed two brothers, Bobby, 20, and Sumit, 17, in EWS Colony, Chandigarh Road, following a dispute. The youths had an altercation on previous night, but were pacified with the intervention of neighbours. Next morning, when Sumit and Bobby went to talk to the group again, they were stabbed.
 
 April 1: Abhishek Khurana, 28, of Prem Nagar, Civil Lines, booked for stabbing his mother Usha Khurana, sister Shagun Malhotra and domestic help Sudha over a property dispute. He had attacked the domestic help with a knife when she had gone to his room with a glass of water. On hearing her screams, when Abhishek’s mother rushed towards the room, he attacked her too. He then stabbed his sister, who was six months’ pregnant.
 
 April 9: Sagar Kumar, 25, of Mohalla Fatehgarh stabbed to death by his cousin for allegedly having illicit relations with his wife.
 
 
