THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the   forecasting a severe summer health department is bracing up to face the spread of diseases. The department fears that an acute   this summer would trigger the spread of several   in the state.

 “An acute water shortage is anticipated this summer which may trigger spread of communicable diseases. The storage of drinking water in unhygienic conditions is always a matter of concern. In Kerala we have witnessed a rapid increase in the communicable diseases due to this,'' said Dr R Ramesh, director of health services. The directorate has already given instructions to all district medical officers to report such events. “Usually when there is shortage of water people resort to collecting water from any available source which may spread diarrhoea and hepatitis,'' said Dr Ramesh.
 
 Health department officials said a spurt in communicable diseases is usually recorded in May and June. “We fear that the number of cases will be more this time since there was very poor rain,“ Dr Ramesh said. The diarrhoea cases were on the rise in 2016 from March to June (from 29,539 cases in March to 85,514 cases in June) due to people using water in unhygienic conditions.
 
 According to the state surveillance data, already there is a marginal increase in the water-borne diseases in the state this year and this would go up in summer. Till February 18 this year 640 cases of dengue fever have been reported.“The fear of dengue spreading more during summer cannot be ruled out,'' said the director of health services. During last summer, dengue fever cases had went up to 1,288 cases (June 2016) from 199 cases (March 2016). Similarly, there was also an increase in the case of   from March (77 cases) to June (175) cases. Already this year a total of 124 cases of Hepatitis A and 133 cases of   have been registered within a period of two months.
 
 Another cause of concern is the number of chickenpox cases being reported in the state. Around 6,278 cases of chickenpox have been reported in two months.Similarly the number of diarrhoea cases has also gone up in two months with 52,879 cases reported this year.
 
