As   member Sarada Sreejesh puts on her pink coat in the morning and steps out for work, her heart fills to the brim with happiness. She is one of the six women who have been selected by the Kerala Bus Transport Association (KBTA) and appointed as ticket examiners in private buses. 
 Starting from the first of February, on a trial basis, these women have been diligently checking tickets of people commuting in private buses, and have also managed to pick up ticketless travellers.
 
  A list of 20 buses, which operate in Aluva, Vyttila, Chellanam and Angamaly, are allotted to two checkers each. Nawas K M, general secretary, KBTA, says, “We found a lot of discrepancy in the total collection, as most of the time people show either old tickets or fake ones, and also conveniently get away with it. Hence, we wanted to counter the issue in the best possible way.” He is happy that in no time the new system has had an impact on the daily collections from the buses. 
 
  “We had provided a two-day training prior to February 1. Four employees from our team gave them hands-on training and tips on how to manage the bus crew with efficacy,” he adds.
 
  A proud Tani Thomas, Kudumbashree district coordinator of the mission, says that their main aim was to identify employment opportunities for women and boost their morale. However, she adds, “It’s their responsibility to sustain it in the long run.” 
  Sarada’s work begins at 8 am in the morning and extends up to 5.30 pm, and it has been keeping her on her toes. Interestingly, she has also managed to catch some of the commuters red-handed. She narrates her experience, “While some of them do not buy tickets, a few show old tickets, and the rest might have lost it without even realising it. If found without a ticket, we ask them to get an additional ticket, and we have not charged a fine as of now, because we have just started the initiative.”
 
  The job has instilled a lot of confidence in Rekha Sugunan, another examiner, and she says the job has been quite fulfilling so far. She adds, “The bus drivers and conductors are quite supportive, and it has made our work easier.”
 
  If at all they face any issues from passengers, they can always approach their Kudumbashree unit, says Tani.
  So what made the KBTA take such an empowering move? Nawas says that last year around 92 women from Kudumbashree had received training to work as conductors, as per the district collector’s directive. All of them obtained conductor’s licence as well. However, he says, “The working hours which start from early morning till late at night was a matter of concern for the women. Hence, the project did not work out. On the contrary, they felt that ticket examining would be a lot more feasible.”
 
  Nawas says that they are planning to recruit more women from the rest of the batch, as two women each for an area will not be able to cover all the buses. Well, beware offenders, with the women brigade in action you are being monitored!
 
 
