Hyderabad: Even as the Union government is yet to warm up to Apple Inc’s tax waiver demands, Telangana IT minister K T Rama Rao on Monday batted for the US giant saying that the Union government must try to respond positively to the company as it will help India improve its manufacturing ecosystem.

 “The ‘Make in India’ push has indirectly resulted in assembling in India. If an end-to-end manufacturing has to happen in India, I feel a lot of demands that have been put forward by Apple , is not only for themselves… in fact, I will go to the extent of saying that it will help India. What Apple is seeking in terms of duty exemption is not only for them but will enable more manufacturing of electronics in India,” he said on the sidelines of the ICT4D Conference that began here. 
 
 Recently, Union IT secretary Aruna Sundararajan had said that Apple had asked for a set of concessions that included a proposal seeking duty free imports of all components to be used by the company for a period of 15 years. “We have a phased manufacturing programme (PMP) because we want more value addition to come to the country. We want them to understand how this PMP will work and how they can dovetail into that," Sunderarajan had added.
 
 While Apple’s application is yet to make much headway, the company will be commencing assembly of iPhones at its Taiwanese contract manufacturer Wistron's facility in Bengaluru soon.
 
 Meanwhile, reacting to media reports of IT companies laying off a large number of techies this year,   said it was a natural part of the functioning of IT companies and happens every year. “The kind of situation that is there in the world today, India actually has more opportunities than ever before because the biggest value proposition from India’s perspective is human resources, which is independent of geography… what we need to focus is how India can provide solutions to the rest of the world,” he said.
 
 Talking about adopting digital solutions, he said the state government is working towards digitising government platforms wherever there is a public interface. He pointed out that post demonetisation, Telangana has emerged as the numero uno state in terms of the number of digital transactions, that stands at 20 crore per month. 
 
 
