PATNA: RJD boss Lalu Prasad on Saturday blamed “infighting” in secular and socialist forces for BJP’s landslide victory in Uttar Pradesh. “We accept the mandate of people,” Lalu said. He, however, took a dig at PM   and   boss Amit Shah, saying the duo succeeded in “misleading” the voters of UP. The RJD supremo also supported BSP chief Mayawati’s demand for an investigation to find out whether EVMs were tampered with to favour the BJP. 

 Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar, who seldom avoid taking questions from media, however, maintained silence on BJP’s victory. The CM, who participated in a public function to mark the 73rd death anniversary of freedom fighter Jubba Sahani, did not take questions on BJP’s record-breaking victory in the UP election. 
 
 However, senior functionaries of JD (U) and RJD spoke their minds on UP election results, leading to fierce war of words between the two major allies of Bihar’s ruling grand alliance. The saffron party and its allies won over 320 seats in 403-member UP assembly. 
 
 While RJD vice president Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, a former Union minister and trusted aide of Lalu, termed Nitish a ‘supporter’ of BJP, the JD (U) demanded his immediate ouster from the party, saying his anti-Nitish stand was not healthy for grand alliance. 
 
 “Raghuvansh is a spent force and has made it a habit to criticise state government and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, which will not be tolerated by JD (U) anymore. He should be immediately thrown out of RJD by Lalu ji in the interest of grand alliance in the state,” said JD (U) MLC and spokesman Sanjay Singh.
 
 He was reacting to a statement of Raghuvansh that Nitish confused the voters and helped BJP to get the landslide victory in UP. In the past also, Raghuvansh has attacked Nitish on various issues such as Intermediate topper scam, question paper leak of Bihar Staff Selection Commission and even on the boat tragedy in the Ganga on January 14 that claimed 24 lives. 
 
 Another JD (U) MLC Neeraj Kumar said blaming Nitish will not serve any purpose for RJD. “People of UP have ignored Congress and Samajwadi Party as they sidelined Nitish ji. We strongly feel that had SP-Congress taken help of JD (U), the result would have been different and in favour of secular forces,” said Kumar.
 
 State Congress chief and education minister   said senior grand alliance functionaries should refrain from issuing “irresponsible statements”.
 
 Meanwhile, Ram Bihari Singh, national principal secretary of NDA ally  , said the Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand results have reinforced Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a “Congress-free” India. “People of these states have supported the pro-poor policies of the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre by giving a thumping majority to the BJP,” Singh added.
 
