
As computers and machines get smarter, many businesses that are successful today are going to have a harder time sustaining what tomorrow holds. Business owners need to evaluate the future now before they are overtaken by the changing technology. We've broken out a few of the most important lessons that will help business owners figure out how to adapt and survive:
 
 
 
 
 There are going to be a limited number of ways to succeed in the future. If your company consistently benefits from technology and is able to add value to what computers already do, you're in good shape. But if a computer does things better without you, then it's unlikely the business will survive. Travel agencies are a good example of a field that machines have taken over.
 
 
 
 
 Income inequality is already rising, and the gap will increase further as computer and technology skills become more valuable and more job functions are automated. Meaning that a relatively small number of people with big incomes are going to be doing a lot of the buying of consumer goods.
 
 Excellent marketing and sales skills, particularly the ability to connect and communicate well with individuals, will be more valuable than ever.
 
 
 
 
 
 Increasingly, consumers are willing to give up some privacy in return for lower prices. The theoretical example of a shopping cart that uses GPS to track consumers' movements through the store and uses cameras to see reactions to products and deals in order to adjust pricing.
 
 Pilot programs like this are already under way, and small businesses that are early adopters may be more successful at convincing people to make the trip to the store rather than ordering everything online. Companies have discovered that if the first product seems cheaper than expected, the customer is more trusting and more willing to spend for the duration of the shopping trip. So, if the intelligent machines spot you coming in the door and heading to the gourmet chocolate, maybe there will be a quite temporary sale, communicated by electronic sensors.
 
 
 
 
 One of the fastest growing parts of the economy is surprisingly low-tech. Job functions like chauffeur, gardener, and assistant are becoming more important because an increasingly wealthy group at the top can afford them. Companies that do a great job of providing personal service can capitalize on the trend.
 
 At some point, it is hard to sell more physical stuff to high earners, yet there is usually just a bit more room to make themselves feel better. High earners mean an increasing demand for high-end services. Companies that can truly create a positive and personalized customer experience, either by selling personal services or providing generally excellent customer service, can expect better business in the future.
 
 
 
 
 If you have an unusual ability to spot, recruit, and direct those who work well with computers, even if you don't work well with computers yourself, the contemporary world will make you rich. Managers are actually going to be more important than ever in the economy of the future. Businesses that enable them to do their jobs, making people more efficient and stringing together distant teams, are going to benefit as other businesses fall by the wayside. 
 
 
 
 
