MUMBAI: Mumbaikars may not need to worry about   cuts this year as the seven supplying   have already received 62% of their annual quota of rainfall. 

 Early on Saturday morning, one of the bigger lakes that supplies water to Mumbai—Modak Sagar in Nashik—overflowed. Last year, the lake had overflowed on August 1.
 
 Modak Sagar, which supplies 440 million litres of water to Mumbai daily, began to overflow on Saturday at 6.32am.
 
 Mumbai’s daily requirement of 3,750 million litres is supplied by seven catchment area lakes. Other than  , these include Tulsi, Vihar,  , Upper Vaitarna, Middle Vaitarna and Bhatsa.
 
 Water stock in the seven lakes must total 14.5 lakh million litres by the end of the season to ensure round-the-year supply to the city. On July 15, water content of the seven lakes stood at 8.9 lakh million litres, which is 62% of the total required water stock.
 
 The current water stock is higher than in the past two years. As on July 15 last year, the total stock was 47.25% while in 2015 it was only 19.6% of the total required.
 
 Considering the poor rainfall in 2015, the BMC implemented a 20% water cut across the city for close to a year. 
 
 Unlike in the past few years when smaller lakes such as Tulsi that supply 18 million litres to Mumbai a day had begun to overflow first, this time it is a bigger lake. A BMC hydraulic department official said, “Lakes like Tulsi and Vihar are located in Mumbai city area which have not received substantial rainfall. But Modak Sagar is located in Nashik where significant showers are being witnessed. Therefore, it has become the first lake to overflow this year.”
 
 On Saturday, Modak Sagar lake level was 163.05 metres, almost at its full supply level of 163.15 metres. 
 
 Generally, officials do not allow it to fill right up to the full supply level as a precautionary measure. Besides, when the lake overflows, neighbouring villages have to be vacated. 
 
 After Modak Sagar, officials expect Tansa to overflow. While Tansa’s full supply level is 128.6 metres, on Saturday, it was around a metre from its overflow mark of 127.2 metres. 
 
 
