KOLHAPUR: The   (KDCC) Bank that plays a vital role in rural credit has lost its credibility after demonetisation, said a senior bank official on Friday.

 The bank is suffering monthly losses of Rs 3 crore and government is not ready to take a call on acceptance of Rs 279 crore in the form demonetised currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 denominations.
 
 Pratap Chavan, KDCC CEO, said, “Our bank has played an important role is rural development of the district. It caters to loan demands of farmer from crop, farming investment (tractor, water pump) to big schemes like life irrigation. But demonetisation created many challenges before us. The customer deposited Rs 279crore in old notes in first four days of demonetisation , but the   (RBI) imposed sanctions on district cooperative banks across India.”
 
 He added, “The frequent inquires by National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development (NABARD) and no call on old notes has raised questions on bank’s credibility. It reflected in banks operations. We had kept a deposit target of Rs 5,000 crore for 2016-17, but achieved only Rs 3,639 crore. Demonetisation changed the image of cooperative bank.”
 
 Chavan said that money is soul of the banking system and depositors want to keep his or her money in a safe place. “New depositors are hesitating to keep his cash in our bank due to recent inquiries. Despite adverse conditions bank registered a net profit of Rs 12.47 crore with zero cumulative losses. We have been sitting on cash Rs 279 crore in form of old notes since last seven months. Bank has been incurring monthly losses Rs 3 crore. The monthly business has gone down by Rs 10 crore after demonetisation. There should be no comparison between nationalised and cooperative bank. They are based on different module. But we have confidence that we will overcome this situation establish its image in rural masses,” he said.
 
 Despite Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar’s concern over the critical situation in   during the budget session, the government has not shown any interest in revoking sanctions on acceptance of old notes.
 
 Pradeep Patil, a farmer from Karveer taluka, said, “The KDCC has a deep network in the district. We easily get loan from the bank. It is not possible to avail loans from nationalised banks. Therefore, bank should remain there despite any adversities.”
 
 Veteran cooperative sector expert   said, “The success of the present cooperative organisations like milk cooperatives, textile happened only due to financial support of cooperative banking in the district. The KDCC has played important role in rural empowerment in Kolhapur. The bank must sustain for well-being of farmers. Cooperative movement in Maharashtra started and flourished politically and financially in Kolhapur.” 
 
