CHENNAI: The annual congregation of   in the city this year brought to the fore another discovery for naturalists across the state — three species seemed to have travelled thousands of kilometres travelling days or weeks from as far as Sri Lanka to reach the city. 

 Thousands of butterflies at   and   in the last week of June created a flutter among butterfly watchers in the city who have not recorded such a huge gathering in the recent past. "Three species of butterflies Common lime, Emigrant and Lime blue have been spotted in large numbers in the last week of June. Though they are tiny, they are capable of flying thousands of kilometres," said nature educationist and writer R Bhanumathi. 
 
 Though butterfly enthusiasts have sighted more than 10 species, these three seem to migrate from faroff places, like birds. The migratory season for the butterflies is during the months of June, July and August. They arrived in the city a little earlier than usual this time and stayed for about a fortnight. In the absence of a study on migration patterns and place of origin of the insects, information from a network of butterfly watchers spread across the state shows these insects flew along the coast from Rameswaram and as far as Sri Lanka. 
 
 Explaining about the various reasons for the visit of the butterflies in the city, Bhanumathi said, "The congregation at the park is a stopover for these insects during migration. They stopover in a place, where the larval host plants are available to lay eggs. The tender leaves and fresh shoots after a few days of rain in the last week of June is another big draw." Since these butterflies are major pollinators this is an ideal to time to visit the region, Bhanumathi added.
 
 Migration of butterflies is relatively unexplored and is known to vary from species to species. While some migrate for a couple of days others can be on the road for weeks. The Monarch butterflies (Danaus plexippus) are most famous for their annual migrations across North America.
 
 "Ideally the forest and wildlife authorities should take up studies on these colorful insects, as they can reveal fascinating secrets of nature," said Bhanumathi.
 
 
