PUNE: The   infection, which was initially concentrated in the fringe areas of the city like Kondhwa, Hadapsar, Bibvewadi, Dhankawadi and Yerawada, has gradually spread across Pune.

 Currently, all fifteen ward offices under   have recorded swine flu cases. And barring only two ward offices —   — all others have recorded swine flu deaths among local residents.
 
 This was revealed in the H1N1 virus mapping activity, data of which was released on Tuesday. The mapping exercise was carried out by the PMC health department based on the data of 337 swine flu cases and 67 deaths registered in the city between January 1 and July 17 this year.
 
 Of the 337 people who tested positive for the contagion, 158 were local residents while 179 had come to the city from adjoining areas for treatment. Of the total casualties, 19 were local residents while remaining 48 were referred to various hospitals in the city from neighbouring areas for better medical care.
 
 “Initially, the fringe areas of the city were mainly in the grip of swine flu. In fact, core city areas falling in Bhawani Peth, Sahakarnagar and Tilak Road ward offices had zero cases and barring a single casualty recorded in Sangamwadi, none of the ward office areas had any death due to the contagion. The virus spread started from April,” Anjali Sabne, assistant medical officer of health, PMC, said.
 
 As per the records of the civic health department, the city had recorded 16 swine flu cases and a single death among the local residents till March 1. The case count jumped to 84 leading to nine casualties among local residents by April 3. “The virus started spreading to the core city areas during this period, but mortality due to swine flu was still limited to only a few ward office areas. The situation worsened from April 3,” another civic health official said.
 
 By June 1, the city had recorded a total of 289 cases and 56 deaths. Among them, 144 cases were seen among local residents, resulting in 17 deaths. By July 1, the progressive swine flu tally stood at 313 cases and 59 deaths. Among them, the progressive figures of local residents were 151 cases and 19 deaths.
 
 “After a brief lull, the cases showed slightly upward swing again in July. By July 18, the total figure rose to 340 cases and 68 deaths. Among them, the infection was seen among 158 local residents with 19 casualties,” the official said.
 
