Pet parent are all too aware of the guilt when they go to work each morning, leaving their furry friend behind at home alone all day. They are constantly worried about what their little one is up to at home — is he/she hungry? Has he/she wandered away? Is he/she being active? Fret not human parent, for technology comes to the rescue. Now, you can keep an eye on what you pet is doing while you are away, feed him/her and even track exactly where he/she is through apps and other devices. Here’s more…

 
  
 
 
 
 There are several devices and apps, like PetChatz, iC Pooch, Dog Monitor and PetziConnect that all work like FaceTime. They consist of a wall-mounted device that has a two-way video system. You can operate the entire system remotely from a desktop computer or mobile device that has one of the apps installed in it. Delight your little buddy by giving him/her a treat with a press of a button, all while crunching numbers at office.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Got an activity tracker for yourself? Well, it’s equally important for your pet to be active as well. Pet activity trackers like Fitbark, PitPatPet and Whistle, when attached to the  , monitors your dog’s everyday activity — you can even set health goals and compare the activity with other similar dogs, or even yourself. They also track changes in behaviours (rest, active and play time), so you can make better decisions with your vet.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Always wanted to know where your cat runs away to for most of the day, or what your pooch does all day when you are not around? Wished you could place a camera on them? Well, you can do just that with pet collars that have a camera attached on them. Charge it, insert a memory card and you can record videos or take pictures.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 For those worried about their   running away from home and getting lost, a collar with a GPS tracker is perfect to put their mind at rest. GPS pet trackers that monitor where your pet is. They send signals of the exact location of your pet, and also allow you to follow audio and visual cues. You can also train your pet to come home on demand. The tracker can be monitored by SMS, internet and via a mobile app.
 
