MANIPAL: At times even an expert and experienced teacher is left looking for answers in these classes when the children studying in class 7 to 9 try to get their doubts on various subjects cleared.

 This was evident in  , where 135 children considered as ‘best and ‘brightest’ in the country are taking part in the ‘ASSET Summer Programme’, a 21-day residential learning module designed for gifted students from across India.
 
 Students identified for the programme are the toppers of this year’s ASSET Talent Search, the annual talent identification exam.
 
 “ASP is a programme designed to give India’s top academic talent an engaging platform to maximize their potential. Started in 2016, the programme has been crafted by pedagogical experts at Educational Initiatives (EI),” says  , chief executive officer, Educational Initiatives.
 
 Around 3.5lakh students take ASSET exam every year. Only the toppers will get an invitation to attend ASP, making it one of the most premier learning programmes in the country.
 
 Srini Raghavan says only one percent of the bright students are selected for the programme. They come from good schools across India. The programme is supporting 10 gifted students from economically weakers sections of the society.
 
 This year’s programme offers 10 courses on subjects ranging from architectural design and digital storytelling to mathematical way of knowing and computational modelling of genetics and evolution. Further, the students will choose one of these courses and learn it from the experts coming from leading institutions like the IITs, Indian Statistical Institute, Stony Brook University, North Western University, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Caltech and others.
 
 “During the programme, students will be completing theme-based advanced courses which prepare them for the world of the future,” says Vishnu Agnihotri, academic director of the programme.
 
 A faculty adds, “They are well read, enthusiastic and extremely curious. Our aim is to make these extremely intelligent students to think out of the box and apply the same in their practical life."
 
 Stash D’Souza, Mumbai, who is attending the programme for two consecutive years, feels that back in his schools, teachers concentrate mainly theories and not much on practicals, but ASP is otherwise.
 
 Soundarya Lahari of Hyderabad, who topped her class, said: “At the start of the programme, I was lost completely as I found all the other children really smart and intelligent. However, as time went by, I found myself having invigorating experiences with them and that is helping me grow tremendously."
 
