JAIPUR: Over 1000 pilgrims of economically poor background aged 70 years and above will fly free to the religious destinations---Tirupati, Rameshwaram, Dwarka and   courtesy   of Rajasthan department. The first flight to Chennai for   will take off from Jaipur airport on February 28. A private 'premier' airline has been allocated the charge of ferrying pilgrims.
“Every day a batch of 30-90 pilgrims will fly down to the nearest airport to the chosen religious destination. Till date 700 pilgrims have been selected via lottery and date of de partures have been allocated o them. By the end of March he traget of 1000 pilgrims would be completed,“ said Raj Kumar Rinwa, minister of Devasthan Vibhaj.
 
 Rajasthan is among the few states which are sponsoring the pilgrimage through trains since 2013. The minister informed that state is first in the country to sponsor free aerial pilgrimage. Neither these elderly persons have the money to be ar the train expenses nor does their health allow them to send through trains, says Rinwa while explaining the objective choosing the aerial route over the phone from an election rally in Uttar Pradesh.“This move is inspired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi ambition of inclusive growth and formation of an equal society ,“ said Rinwa.
 
 “I spoke to a few of them (pilgrims), they are very excited to experience flying. It has inspired and motivated us to increase the number of free aerial pilgrimages from the next financial year,“ said Rinwa. The minister shared the cost of air tickets to be around Rs 1.75 crore, which he claims is far more economical than sending pilgrims through trains. “Our free pilgrimage package includes lodging, boarding, food, medical and assistance from helpers. For every 50-60 passengers, we have 3-4 helpers who assist them in the train and outside. Train journey to Tripati takes 2-3 days and by aerial route around 12 hours,“ said Rinwa.
 
 The deapartment has asked CM   to increase limit of free pilgrimage through trains from 9,000 to 25, 000 for next financial year. The eligibility criteria for free flying is age has to above 70 years and through train is 60 years.Other than government Pensioners, every one who qualifies age norm is eligible to apply for the pilgrimage scheme.
 
