TRICHY: The city corporation has found an easier way of taking the message of cleanliness and   to the people: sensitise the masons first on effective construction of   and sullage management. With only one-third of the city connected to underground sewerage system (UGSS), the rest of the city has been relying on septic tank for managing waste. 

 On finding that improper construction of septic tanks was causing several issues including pollution of nearby areas, the city corporation called the masons who design these septic tanks in rural areas for a seminar on Friday. Structural engineer M R   said that often the separation of septic tank into small chambers was being ignored by the masons during the construction. Residents too ignored its importance to reduce cost. 
 
 These chambers prevent percolation of waste water into the septic tank leading to its overflow. Unmindful of the health hazard, this waste water is drained by residents into nearby water bodies and drainage channels resulting in pollution. By creating chambers, water floating over the sludge will go to the next chamber and percolate down thus preventing any overflow of waste water,” he said. 
 
 City corporation commissioner and special officer   said “Draining of waste water from septic tank will not only pollute the soil but also nearby water bodies. Since masons are the ones who design septic tank in rural areas unlike in the urban parts, we decided to sensitise them on these aspects,” he said. 
 
 He said the masons who worked at the ground level could help sensitise the residents on the need to follow proper methods on construction of septic tanks. Though most of the masons who turned up for the seminar agreed on these facts they said that residents deliberately ignored it to reduce the cost of construction. “People often want us to go for cheaper option while constructing toilets eventually forcing us to ignore such vital things, said  , a mason who attend the seminar. The seminar included power point presentation on the construction of ideal septic tanks. 
 
