THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Tuesday that the government would take necessary steps towards ensuring   and  .

 He was inaugurating a three-day national consultative workshop on care and education of children in the 0 to 6 age group, organized by State Council of Educational Research and Training.
 
 “Preschools should be child-friendly. Parents should ensure that their tiny tots are sent to such schools. The concept of preschool should include an environment where children feel very free and safe. For this, the right kind of interventions and consultations are needed,“ said Pinarayi.
 
 He said children were subjected to exploitation in many preschools. “Measures should be taken to ensure that children get both mental and physical protection in preschools. Exploiters don't dif ferentiate between children and the grown up,“ he said.
 
 Childhood is a very important stage in a person's life.Now, preschool education starts at the age of three. At this age, they like to be with toys and play a lot. Instead of trying to administer dry lessons to them, efforts should be to provide them opportunities to experience the world around them and learn from it. If anganwadis and preschools fail to provide such free learning to them, they would end up in jails later, he said.
 
 Grown up people should not try to raise children as per their expectations and ideas, instead they should be allowed to flower as per their interests and innate abilities.“Children should be given the opportunity to understand the vividness of nature. Instead of keeping them indoors, they should be allowed to spend time in the open. They shouldn't be punished for being naughty . Then only they would be able to think freely and grow independently ,“ he said.
 
 Education minister C Raveendranath, who presided over the function, said the government was committed to developing a child-centric education and also strengthen the general education sector. Health minister K K Shailaja, who delivered key note address, said the government was taking steps for the comprehensive overhauling of anganwadis under the health department.
 
