MUMBAI: Expressing its shock at the condition of the five-year-old  , the   on Thursday directed the   to set up an expert committee to   for the   of  ,   and  . 

 A division bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Anuja Prabhudessai emphasized that ‘right to good roads’ was part of the fundamental right to life under the Constitution. The bench set a March 31 deadline for the BMC to carry out surface repairs on the flyover and said it will have to complete all structural repairs by December 31. 
 
 Wondering how a flyover, which usually has a life span of 100 years, could have corroded joints in just five years, the bench asked the BMC to conduct an inquiry if the contractor had used substandard material for the construction of the flyover and initiate action if found to have done so. The repairs on the flyover will be monitored by an IIT team. 
 
 Advocate Sumedha Rao, counsel for the petitioner Janhit Manch, said that it was necessary that an independent third party monitor the repair works. “The MMRDA has washed its hands of the flyover and put the onus on the BMC for the repairs. The contractor, Simplex, is also implementing MMRDA’s Metro-III project,” said Rao. The court scheduled next hearing on May 4, and gave the state two months’ time to set up a committee. 
 
 The 2.48km flyover, between ITC Hotel in Parel and Jijamata Udyan in Byculla, was inaugurated in June 2011 to ease one of the most congested stretches on the eastern corridor on Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Road, between Sion and Byculla. The PIL had sought a structural audit of the flyover after various incidents have been reported since 2011. 
 
 In December 2016, the BMC had issued a work order for surface repairs of the flyover at a cost of Rs 13 crore. However, the HC intervened and restrained the BMC from carrying out the repairs unless a structural audit was done. The audit report, submitted on February 8, had found gaps and tilts in the joints that had corroded through the structure and recommended urgent structural repairs. 
 
 
