NAGPUR: Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s bio-mining experiment at   dumping yard got a major setback with the fire destroying the windrows created for bio-mining of municipal solid waste.

 Bio-mining is a process where the already dumped waste is dug up and segregated. It is loosened by harrowing and sprayed with composting bio-cultures. Depending on its type, the waste is then sent for recycling, reusing or composting. 
 
 With this process, the civic body was planning to clear around 6-7 acres of land currently over-flowing with heaps of garbage. “We have floated the tender for bio-mining,” officials informed.
 
 As the initial step,   had started making windrows – rows of heaps of solid waste. “As the natural degradation of waste is a very slow process, microbial culture is used to enhance microbial activity and speed-up degradation. In this process, methane gas is produced which is highly flammable,” said founder of Green Vigil Kaustav Chatterjee.
 
 While NMC officials stated that leftover cigarette or bidi butts by trespassers could be the cause of fire, a senior scientist working in the field of municipal solid waste management said presence of gas and high temperature could also be a reason. 
 
 “Fire outbreaks at dumping yards are a common phenomenon due to presence of methane. However, the one in Bhandewadi was massive and it is difficult to immediately gauge the cause. But methane definitely triggered it along with rise in temperature,” the scientist said after visiting the spot on Wednesday. 
 
 Stating that proper study on bio-mining had not been done in the country, he added, “More investigation is needed at Bhandewadi to find out the exact cause of fire.” 
 
 On Tuesday maximum temperature of the day was 35.2 degree Celsius. Experts fear more such outbreaks in peak summer when temperature goes beyond 47 degree Celsius. Experts have maintained the best solution is to segregate solid waste right from the start. While NMC officials said they were planning to separate plastic and biodegradable waste later from the windrows, Chatterjee said, “Microbial culture method is not effective on non-biodegradable waste. Now, large amount of plastic is burning, emitting toxic gases.”
 
 Sources said though fire outbreaks had become frequent at Bhandewadi, security guards were not alert. TOI has previously reported that the broken compound wall of the yard and lack of security gave easy access to ragpickers and nearby slumdwellers who smoke near the landfill site. 
 
 During a visit on Wednesday, some kids living opposite the dumping ground, showed TOI the narrow passage from where they regularly entered the yard. 
 
 
