NASHIK: Residents of Shirdi and neighbouring villages, as well as thousands of Saibaba devotees visiting Shirdi throughout the year, will get to hear “aartis”, “bhajans” and other musical events held at the temple daily on their cellphones through FM radio from February. 

 Prasar Bharati will launch a special FM radio station — Sainagar Shirdi — for Shirdi and it will cover an area of around 25 km from the temple. 
 
 Chief executive officer of   will officially launch the radio service, 103.7 MHz ‘FM Shirdi Sai’, personalized for the temple town at 9.30 am on February 1. Temple trust chairman Suresh Haware said the official function will be held in the place adjacent of   temple. 
 
 Trust CEO Bajirao Shinde, people in the radius of 25km from Shirdi can hear the programmes on the radio by tuning in to 103.7 MHz. “This is the first-of-its-kind radio station in Maharashtra and second in India after Tirupati radio station personalized for Titupati temple,” he added. 
 
  director general F Shahariyar and upper director general M S Thomas will also be present at the launch of the FM Station. 
 
 “Shirdi is getting ready to host the centenary celebration of Saibaba’s death anniversary this year. The FM radio will play an important role not only in engaging the devotees but also to inform and educate them about the activities,” said Hawre. 
 
 The transmission timings and duration will be from 5-10 in the morning and 11.15am to 5pm in the evening and again 6pm to 11pm. The programmes will be broadcast in Marathi, Hindi and English 
 
 Programme officers at Shirdi FM station will report at the Ahmednagar station of All India Radio. At present, a single multi-purpose studio and broadcast machinery have reached Shirdi and the office of the radio station is ready. The service will cater to over 4 lakh people in Shirdi, Rahta, Kopargaon and small villages in this area. 
 
 Senior programme officer and in-charge director of All India Radio’s Nashik station   said the station will be helpful mainly for the devotees. “They can listen to ‘aartis’ and ‘bhajans’ and get important messages related to the temple.”
 
