Nagpur: Parents of medical aspirants met some local BJP leaders today to seek their support for unfreezing the admission process at private unaided medical colleges in Maharashtra. Disagreement with the government over fee hikes has led to private colleges putting the admission process on hold, much to the dismay of parents who feel that their children’s academic session is at risk. One of the parents, Dr Sanjay Deshpande said, “We have spoken to MLA Milind Mane and MLC Parinay Fuke and urged them to take up this issue in assembly.”

 There is now a glimmer of hope for the deadlock to end as state medical education minister Girish Mahajan will meet with private medical colleges on Monday afternoon. BJP MLA Ashish Deshmukh, whose family owns a private unaided medical college in Nagpur said, “We are hopeful that the meeting tomorrow will result in something positive.” 
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis too sounded hopeful of a solution in the issue and told TOI through text message that ‘the minister (Mahajan) is looking into it’. 
 
 As of now in Maharashtra, admissions for government colleges and deemed universities is underway with only the private medical ones on hold. In Nagpur the only private unaided college is NKP Salve Institute Of Medical Sciences And Research Center, run by the Deshmukh family, which has 150 seats. According to Deshmukh the problem started when the fee regulating authority did not consider the expenses incurred by colleges in the proper sense. “They fixed the fee at the lower end without understanding why we sought a fee hike. There’s a hospital attached to colleges which is run at highly subsidized rates and we have been mandated to keep 80% occupancy as well. The cost of upgrading machines, maintaining and expanding facilities, staff and still giving out concessions is to be considered as well,” said Deshmukh.
 
 One of the parents, Dr Sanjay Deshpande said, “Fee hikes are one thing but excessive fee hike is a different matter. We choose our preferences in private medical colleges based on the fee which ranges from Rs5 lakh to Rs10 lakh annually, with accommodation and other expenses coming to another Rs2 lakh. Now if such high fee is also hiked by another 30% or more then it is unreasonable and hence we demand that the fee approved by regulatory authority should be continued with.” 
 
 A compromise between private medical colleges and the government may come on Monday with the former offering a way out. Deshmukh said, “For the benefit of students we are ready to stick with fee approved by the authorities for 85% of the seats, but the government must let us decide the fee for institutional (management quota) seats that comprise 15% of the total strength.” Fee for institution quota, also called NRI seats, is usually three to five times more.
 
 Parents feel that as the discussions between parties continue, there are some things which can be done immediately. Dr Deshpande said “Private medical colleges should declare their merit lists immediately even if admissions are done later on. This way at least we will know which colleges our children have secured a spot in.” 
 
 
