AHMEDABAD: The central government-run   will raise Rs 1,000 crore through external commercial borrowings (ECBs) to fund its important infrastructure projects to enhance the cargo-handling capacity from the present 100 million metric tonne (MMT) to nearly 180 MMT by 2020.

 Ravi Parmar, chairman,   (KPT) told TOI that the board had recently approved raising funds through ECBs and the port has already appointed SBI Capital as the consultant for this. ECBs are available at much cheaper interest rates and are risk-free. 
 
 “As much as 70% of the major infrastructure projects including the   will be funded through dollar-denominated loan and the rest through internal accruals. With ECBs, we can be shielded from dollar fluctuations too,” a senior port official said.
 
 The ECB plan is in line with shipping minister Nitin Gadkari’s suggestion that the major ports avail dollar earnings as loans at cheaper rates from overseas instead of borrowing at higher interest rate from the domestic market.
 
 Parmar said that capacity enhancement would be done not only by building more berths but also increasing the efficiency of cargo-handling. “To boost the discharge rate, we will be installing harbour mobile cranes at berth number 7, 8, 9 and 10. This will result in better throughput per berth,” Parmar said.
 
 With bulk cargo transportation declining world over, Kandla has chalked out a plan to pitch itself as the liquid cargo-handling hub. 
 
 “As part of a well-thought of strategy, we want to emerge as a hub for liquid cargo and vegetable oil. We have already auctioned 125 acre land and created additional 1 million tonne tank farm storage capacity. The monthly rental for storage which was around Rs 450 per month per tonne has also been slashed to Rs 150 per month per tonne making it cheaper for importers,” Parmar said. 
 
 “We will be constructing three more oil jetties, one dedicated for LPG and two for vegetable oil and chemicals in the next three years,” the chairman said, adding that this would help Kandla retain the liquid cargo, which could otherwise have been transported from Pipavav, Dahej or Hazira.
 
 The infrastructure upgradation plan includes adding berths 14 and 16 (Rs 200 crore each for general cargo berth with a capacity of 4.5MT, four more oil jetties and allied pipeline infrastructure (Rs 100 crore each), 3.5MT bunkering facility to handle liquid cargo and increase the capacity of berths 13 and 14. The bunkering facility is being developed by   on a public-private partnership bases and an enviroment nod has been received.
 
 
