NASHIK: Memories of the February fire at a small scale unit in the Ambad industrial estate are still afresh. And with the   rising, the   department has asked residential, industrial and commercial establishment owners to be on guard to prevent such mishaps — chances of which are high during summer. 

 Fire brigade department chief Anil Mahajan said around 720 incidents of fire are reported on an average across the year in Nashik, mostly from the industrial area. “Of these 720 incidents, over 300 incidents take place between February and June when the weather condition is hot,” he said. 
 
 On February 12, a fire broke out at the small scale unit of Vac-Chem in the ‘C’ sector of   Three fire tenders brought fire under control in some time. Grass and scrap materials on the company premises had caught fire and it later spread. 
 
 “The other major fire that broke out was in November last year at a manufacturing unit, Shalimar Paints, at Gonde, about 25km from Nashik. Though it was not summer, the fire was huge. Six fire tenders from NMC and some private companies had brought the blaze in about six hours,” a fire official said.
 
 The company incurred losses to the tune of Rs 60 crore because of the fire that had broken out at its production shed. According to Mahajan, one of the main reasons for fires in industries and residences is short circuit. “There is a rule that the electrical wiring in all industrial or residential establishments must be replaced every 15 years. But not many adhere to it,” he said, adding that instances of fire increase by 15-20% during summer. 
 
 Keeping all this in mind, the fire brigade department has appealed to the citizens to exercise maximum caution during the hot days. Fire in slums is a common occurence. Use of electric gadgets and other inflammable material can also result in fire breakout in other residential, commercial and industrial areas.
 
 The fire department chief said fire breaks out in slums and areas that are close to forests. But there have been cases where such incidents have been reported in other areas because of dumping and stacking of inflammable material, scrap and gadgets.
 
 “In slums, people should be cautious about the use of kerosene/gas and earthen stoves. They should stack hay cautiously. Most households have inflammable material and scrap and these should be either discarded or kept properly,” he said.
 
 Mahajan said any scrap shop in the city was unauthorised as the NMC had not permitted them. Scrap shops and markets should be away from the city area. “There are inflammable material in scraps such as chemicals and lead in batteries that could trigger a fire during summer,” Mahajan said.
 
 As precaution, he urged people to extinguish cigarettes before discarding those. “Many have the habit of throwing cigarettes from moving vehicles on the roads. There could be some fuel on the roads. Leaves along the roads are dry in summer and can catch fire easily,” he said. 
 
 According to him, the personnel in his department are always on alert to tackle any incident of outbreak of fire. “This despite the fact that we are working with 30% of the sanctioned strength of 550. The existing staff give their cent per cent when the need arises,” the fire brigade chief said.
 
