AJMER: Less than 20 percent of   is equipped for cashless transaction whereas about five lakh devotees are expected to come from second half of March this year to participate in yearly Urs of  . There are more than 600 guest houses in the region and among them only odd 50 have facility of PoS machine. Most importantly, devotees spend more on flowers and chadders to offer in dargah but no such shops have any cashless facility. The region has only two ATMs which run out of cash too often.

 After demonetisation, this is the first Urs in dargah and about five to six lakh devotees are expected to attend this 15-day ritual from different parts of the country and from neighbouring countries. “Mostly, devotees bring cash not only to spend on their stay but also to purchase. This time, there will be problem as there is no sufficient cash flow,” said  , a hotel owner.
 
 Interestingly, the dargah committee which is run by union ministry of minority affairs has not made any arrangement for online offerings. “Even there is no facility of Paytm or Rupay card for the devotees,” said a khadim. He said that devotees mostly spend on flowers and chadders but not a single flower or chadder shop is having facility of cashless transaction. Devotees mainly come from poor families and bring their money with them.
 
 “But those who are from middle and higher level backgrounds use their ATM cards but the ATMs in this region are not functioning properly,” said Afzal Karim, a chadder shop owner.
 
 Khadims said that Ajmer is awarded for its effort to go cashless but dargah region is not prepared for such transaction, “The Urs season have a business of about Rs 65 to 70 crore but no such efforts are being made to make the system cashless,” said Bhagwandas, a shopkeeper in Dhan Mandi.
 
 There were hardly five to seven shops in   equipped with PoS machines, “The problem is people, who are working on shops such as flowers and chadders, are illiterate and they only understand cash,” added Anil Patni, general secretary of dargah bazaar shopkeepers’ association. Patni said cashless business is good but no ground has been prepared in this region for the said purpose.
 
 Meanwhile, shopkeepers expect low business this time as devotees who come from Uttar Pradesh and surrounding states will spend less this time because of cash shortage, “Even khadims have not initiated cashless offerings from devotees and hence, there will be problem in coming Urs” added another shopkeeper.
 
 Shopkeepers of dargah bazaar said it is not appropriate to compare dargah Urs fair with international cattle fair of Pushkar, “People coming to Pushkar are literate and most of them are foreign tourists. They know what is cashless transaction but here at dargah, devotees come from poor background and pay in cash,” said another khadim. Devotees who wanted to offer in dargah or to feed poor should get the facility of cashless deposit so that they could transfer money without using currency. 
 
 
