PATNA: With 2001 batch IPS officer Asgar Imam, currently posted as Tirhut range DIG, set to superannuate within six days, five of 11 police ranges will become headless in the state. The government is yet to take a call on filling up the vacancies of range DIGs.
 
  Posts of Darbhanga, Koshi (Saharsa), East (Bhagalpur) and Munger range DIGs are already lying vacant. Similarly, the vacant posts of DIGs in vigilance investigation bureau, administration and human rights are yet to be filled.
  
  The situation has come to such a point that even senior officials at the state police headquarters have raised their hands to get work done in the absence of range DIGs. They either burn their energy to figure out a solution or simply write to home department for guidance.
  
  The economic offences unit, a major wing of  , is also functioning without a permanent SP. BMP-5 commandant Rajesh Kumar has been given the additional charge for SP (EOU).
  
  DG (training) K S Dwivedi is handling additional charge of DG,  . DG-cum-civil defence commissioner Ravindra Kumar is handling the additional charge of DG (vigilance).   (special branch) Sunil Kumar, on the other hand, is handling the additional charge of ADG (headquarters).
  
  Similarly, IG (headquarters and legal matter) Paras Nath is also handling the charge of IG (budget, appeal and welfare). IG (EOU) J S Gangwar is handling the additional charge of IG (special branch) and IG (modernisation) Amit Kumar Jain is handling the additional charge of IG (SCRB).
  
  DIG (central range) Shalin is also handling additional charge of DIG (central zone) of   Police. Similarly, six range DIGs are handling the additional charge of the remaining five ranges.
  
  Senior IAS officer and Patna divisional commissioner Anand Kishore is handling the additional charge of IG (prison). He was also made the chairman of Bihar School Education Board after the former chairman of the board landed in jail for his alleged involvement in intermediate topper scam.
