THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A petition seeking vigilance probe against additional chief secretary (home and vigilance)   was accepted in file by vigilance special court here on Wednesday. The court asked the   (VACB) to submit its view on the plea on January 27.

 The petition by   has alleged forgery of documents by Netto to remove   from the post of state police chief and hoarding of recommendations by chief secretary for actions against vigilance director  .
 
 The petitioner submitted that Netto, who is also secretary to chief minister, has fabricated records in the government file, amounting to forgery and falsification of public documents. She has maliciously put backdates and also destroyed or concealed relevant pages. The said file no.32931FI2016Home was obtained under RTI Act, the petition said.
 
 The petitioner also submitted the details of the government file that relates to the Puttingal temple tragedy when Senkumar was the state police chief. The lapse on part of police was one of the reasons cited when Senkumar was removed from the post.
 
 The petition further mentioned that Netto also raised several false allega tions against Senkumar in connection with the Perumbavoor Jisha murder case, which was cited as another reason for ousting Senkumar as state police chief. “The reply by public information officer of district police chief of Ernakulam was that every material collected by the previous investigating team were used for further probe and there was no lapse on the part of the first team. The investigation car ried out by the first team continued only for less than a month, during which almost all crucial evidences were collected,“ the petition pointed out.Vasanth also submitted copies of RTI replies he received.
 
 Netto was also accused of manipulating and sitting on the file that recommended action against Jacob Thomas in connection with issue where the latter took up private job without government permission.
 
 “The accused herein has committed criminal misconduct by abusing her official position and caused pecuniary advantage to another person. Thereby committed the offence under Section 13 (1) (d) of the PC Act 1988, which is punishable under Section 13 (2) of the PC Act and has also fabricated government records by committing forgery, falsification and backdating, which is also punishable under the Indian Penal Code,“ the petition said.
 
