PUNE: Nerul resident  , a 35-year-old software engineer, was killed and three others, including his wife, were severely injured when their car crashed into a moving truck inside Kamshet tunnel on the   around 8.30am on Friday.

 Jadhav was the son of retired assistant commissioner of police Jagdish Jadhav. He was driving the car and may have lost control over the wheel and crashed into the container in the left lane of the expressway. The left lane is used by slow-moving heavy vehicles. 
 
 “The impact was such that the car got wedged under the rear end of the container killing Jeetesh on the spot,” Kamshet police inspector I S Patil said.
 
 This is the second accident inside the tunnel in the last five days. Last Sunday, five people from Virar were killed and five others injured, after their car skidded on diesel spilt by a luxury bus and crashed into the bus which had halted inside the tunnel. 
 
 While the accident on Sunday occurred on the carriageway for vehicles moving towards Mumbai, the latest accident happened on the carriageway for vehicles going towards Pune.
 
 Jeetesh’s wife   (32), his aunt   (58) and her husband Indrajit Bhosale (68) of   sustained head injuries. They are being treated in a private hospital in Nigdi. 
 
 “Their condition is stable,” a doctor from the hospital said. Jeetesh’s nephew Ninad Ramane (11) of Virar, who too was travelling with them, escaped with minor head injuries. He was asleep when they crashed. 
 
 Jeetsh’s wife Pallavi, aunt Shobha, her husband, Indrajit, and nephew, Ninad, sustained head injuries. The driver of a crane, which was passing by the accident site in the tunnel alerted the police. 
 
 Car was in the left lane
 
 Jeetesh came to India for his relative’s marriage on May 7. His wife Pallavi is a dentist. “On Friday morning, they were on their way to Pune from Nerul,” Patil said. An officer from the highway safety patrol (HSP) Pune told TOI that the container was plying in the third lane when the car crashed into it. “Cars should not be in the third lane as it is for heavy vehicles,” the officer said. The driver of the car may have attempted to overtake a vehicle in the central lane inside the tunnel, he added.
 
