AGRA: With the large number of Independent candidates in the fray in the UP assembly elections, the symbols being issued by the   now cover a bewildering array of objects.
 
  Symbols such as television, air conditioner, room cooler, vacuum cleaner, road roller, coconut, cup and plate, plate containing food, gas cylinder, harmonium, flute, syringe, cot and flip-flop have been allotted so far. While some of the candidates have found their symbols work for their slogans and mottos, others have had to accept their symbols reluctantly.
  
    lecturer and tech consultant Alok Kumar, who is contesting from Agra South constituency with television as his symbol said, “TV is an appealing sign. It broadcasts messages. Since I have been a teacher for the last 20 years, I want to convey a message of good leadership and work for the people.”
  
  Similarly, Dr Pradeep Kumar Srivastav who retired from Firozabad government hospital in 2014 is contesting with the harmonium as his symbol. He is known for his free music classes and free treatment to needy ones. “I chose the harmonium because music gives a sense of discipline, which is a sign of impeccable leadership. Most of our politicians are tainted with corruption and have sabotaged our healthcare and education system to favour private players,” he said.
  
  Retired sub inspector Shokheeram, who served for 34 years in UP police is contesting from Fatehabad constituency from the Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal, and his symbol is a plate containing food. “Our motto is to provide food and basic amenities to every person who is underprivileged. Being a former policeman in UP, I know how the poor and Dalits have been exploited,” he said.
  
  Sanjay Garg, another Independent candidate, was allotted the humble coconut, but was still optimistic he could make something out of it. “The coconut is used by almost every religion, and since I’m secular by nature, it will help me to convey my message to the people,” he said.
  
  Others are not satisfied with the symbols they got but are trying to salvage the situation. Ramesh Chand of the  , contesting election for the first time said, “We wanted the rising sun as our party symbol but were given a vacuum cleaner instead by the Election Commission.”
  
  Similarly, Independent Lokender Sharma was allotted a room cooler and doesn’t quite know what to do. “I have no other option but to contest the election with the allotted sign,” he said. 
  
  Independent candidates are usually allotted symbols of everyday use in the absence of a party symbol. Depending on the number of candidates in a constituency, the symbol can be one which is easy to recall, like a ceiling fan or car, or an obscure object, and there is very little a candidate can do about it.
