NEW DELHI: The Delhi government seems to have run out of steam in its fight against pollution. An internal financial survey by the   department has found that of the allotted Rs 3.8 crore in the budget for 2016-17, only Rs 1.1 crore was spent till December last year. In January, this went up by another Rs 10 lakh.

 The data, which is based on the expenditures of the transport department in the current financial year, clearly demonstrated the decreasing emphasis on controlling pollution in the city. While the Delhi government had tried to reduce the pollution level with the odd-even scheme — implemented twice last year — since April 2016, there have been no such large-scale drive to clean the city.
 
 Recent suggestions by the   (NGT) to put in place the odd-even scheme during really polluted days had the AAP government scrambling for excuses. It has, in fact, clearly told the Centre that it would require time to prepare for such an eventuality if it is implemented. The survey data also showed that the budget estimate was revised to Rs 4.8 crore for 2016-17 during the financial year.
 
 Earlier last year, during peak winter, the worsening air pollution and thick smog had forced the Delhi government to shut down schools for several days, along with the Badarpur power plant.
 
 The AAP government also announced the setting up of more pollution monitoring stations in the city along with the implementation of environmental cess on commercial trucks seeking to enter the city, as ordered by the NGT. 
 
 The government had also planned to set up giant air purifiers and mist sprays at intersections with heavy traffic.
 
 In fact, the Delhi government focus seems to have shifted away from vehicular pollution, and on to other means of controlling pollution. While it has gone ahead with the NGT’s order to ban 15-year-old petrol vehicles and 10-year-old diesel ones, the phasing out of the vehicles has been a slow process. 
 
 Measures like upgrading the pollution under control (PUC) centres in Delhi, enforcing PUC certification and setting up better control measures at borders to stop the entry of non-destined trucks into Delhi still remain on paper only.
 
 The lack of augmentation of public transport has only added to the vehicular pollution, admitted officials. Meanwhile, in the period between 2015-16, over 10 lakh vehicles were added to Delhi roads, as per the latest government data.
 
 
