KOLKATA: In what could qualify as a case of attempted fragging, a 59-year-old assistant manager of a PSU bank at BBD Bag allegedly attacked his branch manager with a sharp weapon inside the bank on Monday afternoon. Even as 56year-old Nupur Bhattacharya lay bleeding, the accused, Santimoy Dutta Gupta, walked down to Laldighi and then to the nearby Lalbazar police HQ and flung himself in front of a bus. He would have been crushed under the wheels had not the driver managed to apply the brakes. Cops from Lalbazar were in the process of taking Santimoy to hospital when officials from the bank reached the spot. By 6pm, the entire story had tumbled out. Santimoy was arrested later at night.

 Both Nupur and Santimoy were posted with the CMS branch (cash management ser vices branch where public transactions do not happen) of the Union Bank of India on RN Mukherjee Road. Besides the two, the division has only one other employee who was not present at the time of the attack around 4.35pm. Police are scanning CCTV footage from the bank to ascertain the sequence of events. While the CMS branch is on the first floor, there are other branches on the ground floor and it were employees from below who responded to Nupur's cry for help.
 
 Nupur is undergoing treatment at   and her condition is stable.“She has received stitches on the head and hands. The injuries to her hand show that she tried to save herself,“ said an investigating officer.
 
 Santimoy's family claimed he was being framed. They accused the manager of regularly harassing and taunting him. Santimoy was on Tuesday sent to six days' judicial custody. He has been charged un der IPC Section 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) that can attract a life term or a minimum of ten years.
 
 Nupur's brother-in-law  , an SBI employee, said they were told that there were only three employees working in this branch of the bank. “We were told that around 4pm, the third employee left for the day . Around the same time Santimoy , too, left the office. Nupur was deep in some work when Santimoy returned with a black bag. He took out a chopper-like weapon and struck her,“ Bharghav said.
 
 Nupur, a resident of Baghbazar Street, took charge of the CMS branch 18 months ago. Her husband Bhaskar Bhattacharya is a well-known tour operator. Santimoy's family though claimed he was being framed. “He cannot even walk properly .Do you think he can hurt someone? My husband was undergoing treatment and the manager would still taunt him. My father would constantly complain how he was being mentally tortured by her,“ claimed his daughter who was present at the court.
 
 “We have learnt that the two were earlier posted at the Shyampukur branch and often got into arguments. We are scanning the CCTV footage. We will record statements of other bank officials. We will ascertain the exact motive behind the attack and the source of the weapon,“ said an investigating officer.Joint CP (crime) Vishal Garg said a thorough probe would be conducted to “establish the circumstances under which the crime was committed“.
 
