KOCHI: The   on Wednesday upheld state government’s decision to remove   from the post of state police chief.

 Dismissing a petition filed by Senkumar, the court upheld the judgment of Central Administrative Tribunal’s Ernakulam bench that declined to entertain a challenge raised by the senior IPS officer against the change effected by the   soon after it came to power. Senkumar, who belongs to the 1983 batch, was replaced by  , a 1985 batch IPS officer.
 
 Senkumar had questioned the government’s decision on mainly two grounds – misusing government's power to transfer a police official on public interest and violation of seniority norms. He had also contended that the government’s decision goes against a 2006 Supreme Court decision (Prakash Singh and Others vs. Union of India) that said civil service officers are entitled to fixed tenure of at least two years.
 
 Responding to the challenge, government had argued that Senkumar was removed as his failure as the head of police in   case and   shook the confidence of the public in police.
 
 Government had alleged that Senkumar failed to suspend or initiate action against police officers responsible for the Puttingal temple fire tragedy and took an attitude of safeguarding the delinquent officers.
 
 Regarding Jisha murder case, government had said that the manner in which the police officers proceeded with the investigation is an everlasting shame to the state police. No measures were taken to safeguard the available evidence and hasty steps were taken to cremate the body. Though the incident came to be widely known on April 29th, the state police chief reported the matter to the government only after five days and that too only after the news was widely flashed in the media.
 
 This caused widespread criticism about police apathy. In this case too, Senkumar didn’t act as was befitting a state police chief and ventured to protect the delinquent officers. The government was left with no other option but to replace the State Police Chief, an affidavit filed to the court had stated.
 
 Claiming that there was no illegality in Senkumar’s removal, the government had said in the affidavit that the move was by conforming to the provisions of Kerala Police Act and the Supreme Court's directions in its 2006 decision, Prakash Singh vs. Union of India. Seniority alone is not the criteria for appointing the State Police Chief, government had contended.
 
