CHANDIGARH: At a time when Sikhs have been gaining space and recognition in the mainstream politics of different countries, the   is aghast over the violent clash at a Germany gurdwara during a congregation, where turbans flew and the police had to be called. 

 They fear such fights , whether over election of management bodies of shrines or due to different streams of thought, may mar the Sikhs image abroad and damage their cause. The images and videos of the clash have gone viral, and a divided face of the diaspora is on show.
 
 In the last couple of years, some individual Sikhs have earned accolades for their acts in their respective countries. There have been several initiatives by rights groups in US, UK and Europe to create awareness about the unique Sikh identity as well as their right to wear their articles of faith. 
 
 In US, Sikh organizations, including  ,  , and Sikh American Legal Defence and Education Fund (SALDEF), have been working with different security agencies against pat down turban searches at airports. Recently, a first-of-its-kind ad blitzkrieg was launched in US to create awareness about Sikhs and their identity .
 
 However, the Frankfurt gurdwara episode presents a new low. Not only were turbans tossed around, but some involved in the clash crowed about taking away a rival's headwear “trophy".Several Sikh netizens have expressed their anguish at the happenings and voiced the apprehension that the incident would damage the image of the community in other countries.
 
 “If you will not stop using swords at each other in the gurdwaras, then other countries will have a pretext to ban 'kirpans',“ said Canadian Sikh Harpreet Singh on his Facebook page.
 
 “The Germans must be thinking why they gave visas to these people," said US based  . “Forget about 'kirpans', if such a situation continues, then they (governments of other countries) would even bar traditional instruments from gurdwaras,“ said US-based Narinder Singh Akali in his FB post.
 
 On the other hand, some have justified the assault on Sikh preacher Panthpreet Singh. US-based `preacher' Gurpreet Singh 'California', who flew to Germany before the clash, shared 'glorifying' videos of the attack with captions .
 
 A bid was also made to attack Panthpreet at a gurdwara in Padua in Italy .
 
 The news of clash casts a shadow on the diaspora's achievements like four Sikh ministers in the Canadian federal government, the first turbaned member of the Ontario assembly Jagmeet Singh announcing his bid to run for the federal leadership of the New Democratic Party (NDP), and UK's Labour party fielding two turbaned Sikhs and a Sikh woman from winnable seats.
 
 DIFFERENT STREAMS OF THOUGHT
 
 While the classification of moder ate and radicals Sikhs abroad is no longer there, new fault-lines have started emerging. The missionary preachers are arrayed against those owing allegiance to the Sikh seminary,   The genesis of the Frankfurt gurudwara clash appears to be an extension of clash between two groups having different ideological.
 
