NEW DELHI: Amid a heated debate over UP's drive against illegal slaughterhouses, the Modi government strongly defended  , saying it was part of India's freedom movement and said UP CM Yogi Adityanath's initiatives were the legitimate duty of an elected government. 

 "We should not exaggerate a situation where a genuine attempt is being made by a chief minister in a state to legalise the matter and to not encourage illegal practices," minister of state for commerce and industry   told the Lok Sabha while replying to a debate on the Footwear Design and Development Institute (FDDI) Bill, 2017. 
 
 "There is nothing new which is happening in  . I would like all of them (MPs), particularly members of the Indian National Congress, to recognise that cow protection was part of our freedom movement. There is nothing new in it. Why are we suddenly so agitated about what is happening in Uttar Pradesh? The CM is only doing what was very much the spirit behind our freedom movement itself. So, I would want the members to be very clear that it is not one thing during the freedom movement and another now".
 
 "This country has given legitimate leather for the leather industry and that would continue", said the minister responding to concerns raised by Congress, Trnamool and CPM that tanneries will be hit by recent decisions.
 
 The bill is meant for declaring 12 FDDIs as institutions of national importance for the promotion and development of quality and excellence in education and research in all disciplines relating to footwear and leather products design.
 
 "For all those members who wonder as to where the leather is going to be coming, this country, not today but over the centuries, has had leather tanning and it has given a steady flow of leather. That has never obstructed our own cow protection movements, about which each one of us will have to be proud of", the minister said amid interruptions when the Congress member from West Bengal, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, was trying to raise the issue of export of meat worth Rs 28,000 crore. He sought to highlight a point that while on one hand the government was promoting export, the other hand slaughterhouses in UP were being closed.
 
 TMC member Saugata Roy earlier asked her, "Cow slaughter is banned except in West Bengal, Kerala and the northeastern states ... if the ban continues, where will we get the leather from? We would like to know where the institutes (FDDIs) will get hide and skin from". CPM member Mohammad Salim too raised a similar question amid strong protests from the treasury benches. 
 
 
