GANDHINAGAR: Leader of opposition in the state assembly and senior Congress leader,  , who on June 24 had openly criticized the party high command, met all-India Congress vice-president   in New Delhi on Saturday. This comes a month and a half after he put forth his demands. Gandhi reportedly did not consider Vaghela’s demands and sought an explanation on his anti-party activity and his staying away from protests against the BJP.

 Vaghela, who is in rebel mode and had hinted that he intends to distance himself from the Congress if the party does not agree to his terms, may soon announce a drastic step. 
 
 On Saturday after meeting Gandhi, Vaghela avoided the common meeting with state Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki and state Congress in-charge and former Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot. He left alone, which also generated rumours about Vaghela splitting from the Congress.
 
 Vaghela avoided mediapersons after his meeting. He was contacted several time but did not respond.
 
 Key sources close to the development said, “Rahul Gandhi, while meeting Vaghela, clearly raised the issue of his anti-party activities and rhetoric in public against the party. He ask him to prove his loyalty to the party and not waste time when just a few months are left before the elections.”
 
  rebel during Prez poll?
 
 There are rumours in political circles that after the failed talks with Rahul, Vaghela may make his disassociation with the Congress clear. At the meeting with his supporters on June 24, he said that he would wait to meet Rahul Gandhi and would will show his strength after that if requires. It is possible that Vaghela and his half-a-dozen loyalist MLAs may stay away from the election of the President. 
 
 High command is supreme: Solanki
 
 Bharatsinh Solanki avoided commenting on the meeting with Gandhi and Vaghela. “We discussed only his (Gandhi’s) next visit to Gujarat and other key issues. He (Vaghela) met Rahulji separately. I don’t know about their meeting. Our focus is on reaching out to people There is no problem within the party. All the matters will be finalised by the high command. The high command is supreme.”
 
