BHOPAL: Water crisis in the city was more than evident at   as a bulk of complaints were related to water woes. Organised by the   Municipal Corporation ( ), the choupal, an open forum for public grievance redressal, is held every Monday. 

 Visibly taken aback by the public outrage over erratic water supply, BMC mayor Alok   warned the civic body officials that action would be taken if problems were not resolved fast. “Improve or action would be taken erring officials,” Sharma warned. Around 30 complaints related to water problems were received by BMC officials. 
 
 On Saturday, a water supply pipeline connection pumping station at Karbala (Upper Lake) to Idgah Hills filtration plant was damaged. Sources said the BMC would suply less water from various pumping stations. 
 
 An estimated 10 mgd less water is being pumped out from various water bodies in the state capital. It is alleged that the BMC has resorted to the measure as the pumps utilised to supply water are not working at an optimum capacity. 
 
 According to BMC estimates, 16 of the 85 municipal wards are facing an acute shortage of water. Residents in wards 5, 16, 17, 18, 21, 22, 25, 27, 31, 34 to 38 and 81 to 85 barely get water for more than an hour per day.
 
 “Issues related to water supply are being tackled. Each ward and zone officer has been asked to prepare a plan and submit it to the BMC,” Sharma said.
 
 Most residents complained they are relying on tube-wells, hand pumps and other alternatives to meet the demand. An estimated 10% of Bhopal’s water supply needs are still met by sources outside the BMC purview.
 
 BMC officials admitted water crisis has worsened in some areas owing to mismanagement. Many of the staffers in-charge of opening locality valves were found lax in their duty, sources said. To overcome this inefficiency, the civic body has floated a tender for installation of SCADA, a system operating with code signals over communication channels and helps provide control of remote equipment. The ultrasonic transmitter with flow measurement capability is installed right at the process measurement point. It is designed specifically for municipal applications such as water, wastewater and sewage.
 
