NEW DELHI: A post-midnight accident left six buffaloes dead and 18 injured on   in south Delhi, bringing the morning traffic on Thursday almost to a standstill. A truck bearing a Rajasthan registration plate and loaded with the animals overturned on a diversion loop heading towards the Hauz Khas flyover at around 1am. The driver fled from the spot, leaving the animals stranded on the road.

 “When we reached the spot, we found that some of the buffalos had died due to the fall from the flyover, while others, whose horns were tied together, had been severely injured. The driver and cleaner had deserted the truck on the road,” said Ishwar Singh, DCP (South).
 
 Police arranged food, water and treatment for the buffaloes, but they also had to barricade the road to protect the animals. However, the cops were unable to remove the carcasses from the road. “We moved the dead animals to the side of the road,” said a police officer, adding that they had informed the   about the incident. Help arrived only after 11am, and all this while the cops had the tough task of keeping the animals safe while allowing movement of traffic.
 
 Traffic jams choked Outer Ring Road for nearly three hours, the flow of vehicles hampered by the crowd of curious people as well as the constricted road. The streets around Hauz Khas and Malviya Nagar too were crammed as rush-hour commuters tried to find detours out of the mess.
 
 Apparently, a sharp turn on the flyover created by a diversion necessitated by   construction work was behind the accident. Traffic police officers admitted that this was not the first time a vehicle had overturned there. The absence of proper warning signs caused speeding vehicles to suddenly encounter the unexpected turn. Three incidents of the sort have taken place at the spot this year. “A few days ago, a truck carrying garments had similarly overturned at the bend,” a police officer said.
 
 DCP Singh said that a case of rash and negligent driving under Section 279 of the Indian Penal Code had been registered. Additional charges under Section 429 of IPC for killing or maiming cattle had also been filed. The injured buffaloes were taken to an animal welfare home in north Delhi.
 
 
