A 60-year-old woman, who saved a man being chased by  , was attacked and abused by the same   inside her house in Mahadevapura. Even her son was attacked with   but he managed to escape with just chipped nails.

 Last Sunday, Vijayamma, a resident of Basavanagar in Mahadevapura, was standing outside her house when she saw a profusely bleeding man, aged around 25, running towards her house. Close on the heels were three machete-wielding men. Without thinking twice, Vijayamma ushered the man inside her house and then locked the gate.
 
 “The three threatened her with dire consequences if she did not hand over the man they were chasing. But Vijayamma refused and reportedly asked the miscreants to get going. The accused even slapped her. But the   stood her ground and did not open the gate,” said an officer who is part of the investigations.
 
 Frustrated, the three went away. After waiting for a while, Vijayamma offered water to the man and asked him to flee.
 
 But unbeknownst to her, the three accused had left her house only to get reinforcements. The trio returned with five others and started shouting at Vijayamma asking her to hand over their man. When Vijayamma told them that the man had already run away, they lost their cool.
 
 “By this time, I had returned home. Realising that the person they were looking for had escaped, the gangsters got angry and attacked my mother. When I tried to help her, they beat me up too. They attacked me with lethal weapons and the nails of my fingers chipped off. My mother was hospitalised and she is still recovering,”
 
 Vijayamma’s son Gopal Reddy, a businessman, told BM.
 
 Reddy, who supplies purified water to residents and a few companies in Whitefield area, then called the police for help. The police have recorded the statements of the woman.
 
 “Through local intelligence, we have got to know the details of the accused who are identified as Manjunath, Mohan, RX Jagga, Vinod and a few others. These miscreants are known for creating nuisance in the area. We are on the lookout for them,” the officer added.
 
 The Whitefield division police have registered a case under multiple sections. The accused have been booked for assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty (IPC 354), voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means (IPC 324) and intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace (IPC 504).
 
