JODHPUR: After a period of two decades, the much-hyped expansion of   took off with the signing of MoU. The   (IAF) will transfer 37 acres of land to the airport for expansion activities and in return, it will get 106 acres of land. Of this 106 acres, 37 acres will be provided by the Jodhpur Municipal Corporation (JMC) to IAF free of cost in lieu of 37 acres. Remaining 69 acres will be provided by the JMC to IAF at a cost of Rs 78 crores.

 According to Jodhpur MP, G S Shekhawat, 37 acres of land would be transferred in two phases, of which 22 acres would be transferred in first phase and the remaining in the second phase. The total land that will be transferred by Jodhpur Civil Airport and JMC is in Sewage Farm area under JMC.
 
 “During transfer in the first phase, construction of apron, track to connect the runway and parking facilities would be developed, for which the budget has already been provisioned. Besides this, the   (ILS) has also been installed and made operational. Now we would strive to bring more flight connectivity to Jodhpur from New Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad,” Shekhawat said.
 
 Shekhawat has been instrumental in taking up the matter with former defence minister   for expediting land transfer. Parrikar in June 2016 ordered IAF to accelerate the transfer of 37 acres of land. Amongst those present on the occasion were AOC Air Force Station Jodhpur, Air Commodore N Tiwari and Ghanshyam Ojha, mayor, Jodhpur.
 
 Terming it to be an important development, AOC (Jodhpur Air Force Station) N Tiwari said that all cooperation would be provided by the IAF on this ambitious project of expansion of the civil airport.
 
 Construction on this land by the Airport Authority of India will be in conformation with the IAF colour scheme and in consultation with Air Force station, Jodhpur. 
 
 For this, the site plan will be prepared by the Airport Authority of India and submitted to the IAF for obtaining NOC. Any future construction will also require clearance from the Air Force.
 
 Recently, the high court had also summoned all the stakeholders in the court seeking development on the issue of introduction of the evening flights from Jodhpur in the wake of installation of ILS.
 
