Panaji: The competitions committee of the   (AFC) is meeting in Kuala Lumpur on Tuesday to decide, among others, if the   ( ) deserves a place among India’s representatives in the 2019   club competitions.
 
  The All India Football Federation (AIFF) has pushed for the ISL winner to get a place in AFC Cup – Asian football’s second tier club competition – for the first time, while a Champions League play-off slot has been reserved for the I-League, India’s premier club competition. The   previously had two continental slots.
  
  “It’s an unusual situation with two leagues but one for the short-term. I am sure the AFC will support our view,” said AIFF general secretary  .
  
  The AFC has taken active interest in the complicated status of Indian football and even convened a stakeholders meeting at its headquarters in Kuala Lumpur on June 7. AFC general secretary Dato Windsor John, who chaired the meeting, listened to all parties and a final decision on the way forward has now been left to the competitions committee.
  
  “Regarding India’s representatives in the 2019 AFC club competitions, the AFC competitions committee will decide on the AIFF’s slot allocations request at its next meeting on July 25. Any decisions on the slots will be made on the principle that the best teams represent the AIFF and adhere to the relevant AFC Regulations, such as the AFC Club Licensing Regulations and Entry Manual for AFC Club Competitions 2017-2020,” the AFC said in an exclusive statement to TOI.
  
  In a letter to the AIFF on June 23, the AFC said they were pleased to note the approval of the AIFF executive committee to establish a medium and long-term roadmap for top club football in India, following the conclusion of the multi-stakeholder meeting in Kuala Lumpur.
  
  “In the short term, the AFC Secretariat has agreed to recommend a special dispensation for 2017-18 season to accept the AIFF’s proposal to run the India Super League and I-League concurrently as a temporary bridging solution. The special dispensation has also been reviewed and supported by Fifa and is subject to several conditions,” said AFC.
  
  The “special conditions” would mean participating clubs adhering to the stringent club licensing criteria. All clubs normally get a one-time exemption to meet the club licensing criteria, but whether ISL franchises would also get the benefit remains to be seen.
  
  The AIFF, for the first time, will run both the leagues concurrently. While the expanded 10-team ISL, which includes former I-League champions Bengaluru FC, is expected to kick off on November 18, the I-League has been scheduled to start in the third week of November. Both leagues are jostling for the weekend slot.
