 (Mangaon taluka): The magnificent rocky Sahyadri hills surrounding the landscape, with a gurgling Kundalika river flowing underneath the village bridge, is the first impressive sight for a visitor to Bhira village in Mangaon taluka. It is only after interacting with the locals of Bhira, Patnus and neighbouring areas does one realize that the picture perfect setting is marred by a weather hitch.

 “In the last three days, we have become famous for having the hottest days, touching a maximum of 46.5 degrees C on Tuesday, and 43 degrees a day later. This used to not happen in my younger days,” said 80-year-old villager, Ram Kalekar, of Bhira. Bhira is now known across the state for the march of rising mercury in March. There is a weather observatory within the Tata hydro power plant company at Bhira, which recorded the figures.
 
 Sarpanch, Vijay Mahmunkar, commented, “Since our cluster of villages is surrounded on three sides by mountains, daytime   gets locked. Also, a thermal steel plant has come up nearby, and illegal tree-cutting is going on for years in the adjacent forest. These factors have contributed to record high temperatures.”
 
 The sarpanch is not off the mark. Besides forest wood-cutting, there is burning of dry grass and twigs along hill slopes, besides smoky brick kilns and paddy fields during this time of the year.
 
 Mangaon tehsildar   told TOI, “We have officially told villagers not to venture out in the afternoon, to keep their heads covered in the open, and keep themselves hydrated. Two IMD officials will interact with people and go to the weather observatory.” IMD officials were expected on Friday.
 
 Some village students of Indian Education Society (IES) school in Bhira said, “We have been told to drink a lot of cold water. It has been quite hot this week, so some kids are having ice candies.”
 
 A local mediaperson commented, “It is incredible and hard to believe that our villages, which don’t even suffer from drought, like in Beed, are facing such hot climate. But today it is again breezy and cloudy, which has brought down temperatures.”
 
 Former state forestland committee member Hemant Chhajed told TOI, “The climate has become hot only because more and more industries are coming up, with no environmental audit. Forest trees are being indiscriminately hacked, which harms the environment and makes the common people sweat. Today it is Bhira, tomorrow more areas will literally burn.” Chhajed stressed that besides environmental impact assessment of companies, the vital environmental audit must be done to save future generations.
 
 Meanwhile, while district officials are cautioning villagers not to venture out between 1.30pm-3.30pm, locals are heeding to their senses with a self-imposed curfew in the afternoon here.
 
