JAIPUR: The people of Rajsamand district had to wait for a long 44 years to see this momentous occasion. The  , one of the four major lakes in Mewer, is brimming with water now for the first time more than four decades after a good spell of rain this monsoon. In order to celebrate this momentous occasion the people lead by the local MLA and higher education Minister   offered prayers and aarti.

 Rajsamand Lake also known as Rajsamudra Lake was built by   in 1660 near the town of Rajsamand which is now a district headquarters by the same name. The lake was built in the 17th century across the Gomati, Kelwa, and Tali rivers, with a catchment area of approximately 196 sq miles. Rajsamand Lake lies between the cities of Rajnagar and Kankroli , about 66 Km north of Udaipur .
 
 It used to serve as the major water source to the people of the area. However, rampant encroachment and the mining of marble in the catchment area and in the last three decades have caused irreparable damage to the source of the water. The rain water is now diverted elsewhere and the lake remains mostly dry.
 
 However the district administration and local peoples efforts to remove the encroachment from the catchment area of the Gomti river has finally shown results.
 
 Rajsamand Lake was constructed by building an impressive dam in the 17th century on river Gomti. On the southern end of the lake, the huge embankment is composed of white marble which is a major attraction for the tourists.
 
 It has marble terraces and stone steps that touch the waters of the lake. There are five toranas (weighing arches) where Maharana Raj Singh and his descendants organized the annual traditional event of Tuladan. (Kings used to weigh themselves in gold and then distribute it amongst the Brahmans.) This process of alms-giving was followed by Maharaja Raj Singh and his descendants.
 
 Also on the embankment of the lake are nine pavilions or 'nauchowki' (nine ghats). These intrinsically carved pavilions are festooned with pictures of the sun, chariots, gods, birds and detailed carvings. The history of Mewar is inscribed in 1017 stanzas, on 27 marble slabs, that are called the Raj Prasasti. It has been acclaimed as one of the longest etchings in India.
 
 According to historians Rajsamand Lake was used as a seaplane base of Imperial Airways during World War II, for over six years.
 
 
