Day 90 on Bigg Boss Tamil begins with the egg task where contestants are asked to save the eggs from breaking. Bigg Boss announces few revisions in the rules of the game. He says that the contestants shouldn’t touch the egg or the tray holder. Bigg Boss calls   and asks him to pick one candidate from the lot and dance with him for the tunes of the song played in the background. It is also mandatory that their steps match the tunes of the song. Snehan ends up breaking his egg in the process. Later, Bigg Boss asks   to pick someone from the remaining contestants to do yoga with her. Contestants have to do three asanas and have to change the asana soon after the buzzer rings. Suja invites Ganesh, but he says that he has just had food and won’t be able to do it.   volunteers to do the task. Eventually, both Suja and Bindu drop their eggs.   and Ganesh are asked to continue the egg task. Harish wins the task. Bigg Boss sends some treats to the housemates. 
  
The next task is to pretend what each housemate is not. Bigg Boss sends them instructions that each housemate should use a prop and pretend something they are not. While Bindu is asked to wear shades all the time, Harish has to act like a social media celebrity. Ganesh has to make everyone laugh and Snehan has to act like an NRI. Later, housemates are asked to rate the other contestants on whom they found the most fake. While   says that Ganesh and Suja are fake, Harish says that Suja is attention-seeking. Ganesh, Suja and Snehan also vote for Suja . Eventually Harish wins this task as well. Bigg Boss sends them special attire to wear for the meeting with the show’s host  . 
  
  Kamal Haasan meets the housemates asks each contestant to explain why they should win the Bigg Boss title. Suja says that she has undergone a lot of struggle and hence, should win the task. Snehan, on the other hand, says that with the money, he wants to build libraries in villagers so that the uneducated have access to learning. Harish apologises to Kamal Haasan for not cherishing the little moments in the house. Arav says that he has been since throughout and Suja adds that she has been herself and not changed for the camera. Kamal Haasan asks why other s should not win? Contestants say that Suja is not fit to win the title as they find her fake and troublesome and her behavior irksome. Kamal Haasan asks Snehan to donate few points to the contestants who scored the least –Ganesh and Suja.
 
 
