CHENNAI: City boy   breezed past compatriot   6-2, 6-0 here on Friday to book his place in the final of  . The 20-year-old will face Netherlands' Colin van Beem in the final on Saturday after the latter got the better of Korea's Seong-Gook Oh 7-6 (7-5), 1-6, 6-4 in their semifinal clash.

 While Mukund made short work of Kadhe, taking just 51 minutes to seal the tie in his favour, van Beem had to battle his way through in three hard-fought sets that could have gone either way.
  
 The young Mukund took very little time to hit his stride, breaking Kadhe's serve as early as the third game. From there on, it was all one-way traffic as Mukund grew from strength to strength. Armed with a strong first serve and an impressive array of ground strokes, the youngster held his serve with ease while breaking Kadhe's serve once more to take the first set 6-2.
  
 In the second set, Mukund was extremely dominant once again and didn't give his opponent a window of opportunity to get back into the contest. Kadhe, too, seemed to have lost all hope and crumbled without winning a single game in the set. In the process, Mukund has earned a chance to claim his fourth ITF title.
  For that, though, he will have to get past van Beem, who got a good workout in his semifinal victory over Seong-Gook.
  
 The Korean had the better of the opening exchanges and raced to a 5-3 lead in the first set, but went on to squander his advantage as van Beem fought back to win the set in a tiebreak. Unlike the opening set, Seong-Gook held his nerve in the second set even as van Beem made a string of unforced errors to go down 1-6 and take the game to a third set.
  
 As the game progressed, both players grew visibly tired and committed plenty of errors. Van Beem, in particular, lost his composure on more than a couple of occasions and even received an official warning for throwing his racquet in fury after losing a point. Ironically, neither player seemed keen on seizing the chances that came their way. From 2-2 in the third set, both van Beem and Seong-Gook broke each other's serve for the next five games before the Dutchman eventually held his nerve to take the set 6-4.
  
 Meanwhile,   and   won the doubles title after prevailing over Kadhe and   4-6, 6-3, 12-10. 
 
