PANAJI: In a move that is expected to reduce delays and bring relief to citizens, the state government on Wednesday launched an e-governance platform that includes integration of property   and  . Speaking at the launch, chief minister   said the   platform would be integrated with the Right to Service Act in the future to minimize interaction between citizens and government officials.

 The Goa government services portal and integration of   registration with mutation, as the portal is known as, will bring in transparency and allow a citizen to complete the mutation process within 90 days.
 
 “We are eliminating one of the complaints that there were delays and that people had to make frequent trips to the mamlatdar. Delays involved in sending Form XIII to mamlatdar will be eliminated,” Parrikar said.
 
 The service will be available only through aadhaar-based registration and the fees charged for the services have been waived off.
 
 “We are working on a roadmap to include more departments and services that will be provided on this portal. Once the newly introduced services on the portal stabilize operations we will bring them under the Right to Service Act,” Parrikar said.
 
 The Goa Government Services Portal is an e-district mission mode program of the Union government and will provide services like issuance of residence certificate, income certificate, caste certificate, partition of land, domicile certificate, matriz certificate, land conversion and sound permission.
 
 “To make people familiar with the online process we will open kiosks at certain government offices, like the mamlatdar or collector’s office to help people register and to open digi-lockers,” Parrikar said.
 
 With the introduction of the integration of property registration with mutation, all property documents registered, along with paid eChallan and application for mutation will be available online to the mamlatdars.
 
 “Over the last two months we have cleared some of the backlog of mutation applications. There were 5,800 pending mutation cases as on March 2017 and we have cleared nearly 2,600 cases. Since then 2,000 more mutation applications have come and my department will ensure that by September the mutation backlog will be cleared,” revenue minister Rohan Khaunte said.
 
 
