HYDERABAD: It is no longer a million dollar question. After Bollywood, Tollywood is striking it rich in the US, with films joining the million dollar club on either the opening day or in the first few days of release no longer a novelty.

 Mahesh Babu starrer Spyder swung tantalisingly close to kissing the magic figure of $1 million on opening day of Wednesday with collections of around $968,000, said to be one of the highest for first-day collections for a Tollywood flick.
 
 According to trade figures, other Tollywood films to have made it to the hall of fame in a few days or weeks after release include   starring Jr NTR (which took five days to hit the million dollar mark), Arjun Reddy starring Vijay Devarakonda and   directed by  .Film crazy Telugu audiences in the US are said to think nothing of driving 200-300 km just to be able to catch their favourite movie during the weekend. 
 
 On an average, a Telugu family ends up spending $500 for the entire film experience, including the ticket price, fuel, parking and eats.
 
 However, film pundits say the picture may not be as rosy as it is being projected.
 
  “Huge collections by themselves do not indicate whether those in the film trade have made their money ,“ explains film director and critic  .
 
 “What matters is how much the distributor bought the rights for and what was the profit made,“ he said. In almost all cases, these figures do not come out.
 
 There is also another ugly side to the collections mania. 
 
 The tickets of big star cast films are priced at $30 to $100 apiece though the normal price is just $14. Films made on a budget of Rs50 crore to Rs150 crore are classified as big-ticket films and released in maximum number of theatres so that big amounts can be collected in just a few days.
 
 Interestingly,   and Arjun Reddy , both small budget films, reached the $1-million mark reportedly despite the tickets being priced at the minimum. “When the ticket price is minimum and the film has a good run at the box-office, that film can be called a real hit,“ Kathi said.
 
