A new year calls for some ‘stock’ taking… in this case, literally, with bone   becoming the beverage of 2017. The old-fashioned super drink is hot once again and destined to stay that way. Like most other things,   is a time-honoured food that has bounced back from ancient kitchens to join the long list of contemporary  .
 
  Our grandma’s magical brew is the new-age cure for modern maladies. Americans are ordering cups of bone broth on the go instead of their daily lattes and have also created a band of “broth-ers” – ardent devotees of bone broth.
  
  
 
  
  Be it the  , the Italian brodo or   (trotters) soup, a warming broth has always been a medicinal soul food for societies around the world. It is essentially a warming, nourishing beverage made from meaty bones, veggies and herbs left to smoulder for hours (in some cases up to 72 hours) and then strained. Now, smouldering hot broth can also be a breeding ground for bad bacteria so it is advisable to cool it down before diving into the bowl.
  
  
 
  
  People around the world still consume broth regularly as a cost-effective and highly nutrient dense food. Besides its amazing taste and culinary uses, broth is an excellent source of minerals and is known to boost the immune system. Dieticians who specialise in the   assert that the long cooking process of broth breaks the bones down, releases nutrients and minerals, and makes nutrient-rich collagen, gelatin, and glucosamine easier to digest.
  
  
 
  
  Bone broth scores on three big health fronts – whole food, clean food and slow food. An ancient cure for common cold and influenza, it is far more powerful than known to
  most. Celebrities, including  ,   and  , tout it as a cure-all to help you attain radiant skin, weight loss and shiny hair.
  
  
  
 
  
  Gelatin in broth helps seal holes in intestines. This helps cure chronic diarrhoea, constipation.
  
  
 
  
  Glucosamine and a host of other goodies in broth keep your joints healthy. The phosphorus, magnesium, and calcium gives you stronger bones, too.
  
  
 
  
  Collagen in broth makes your skin look younger, hair shinier and nails glossy.
  
  
 
  
  Glycine in broth helps you sleep better and improves memory.
  
  
 
  
  High concentration of minerals fortifies your immune system.
  
  
 
  
  Bone broth helps in recovery, as the nutrients are easily absorbed; the liquid is hydrating.
  
  
 
  
  A super brew from leftover bones and veggies — what more do you need?
  
  
