MOHALI: A 20-year-old diploma student was allegedly sodomized in the name of   by two seniors at a hostel of a private institute in   for three months, prompting the police to arrest one of them on Tuesday while the other was absconding.

 Avneet Katoch from Nangal was in police custody, while Sahil Bakhshi from Baijnath in Himachal Pradesh was the second accused.
 
 The victim hailed from Himachal Pradesh. He took admission in the institute in June last year. A classmate used to share the room with him but he left just after a few days. “This is when the accused started harassing him. One night, they took all newly-enrolled students to the rooftop and asked them to give introduction,” the complaint said.
 
 While others were allowed to leave, the victim was allegedly stopped back and sexually assaulted. Ten days later, the accused came to his room located on the first floor and allegedly sodomized him. The abuse continued for three months despite repeated pleas of the victim.
 
 The victim, in his statement, said, “They sexually harassed me and continuously ragged me in the hostel and other areas of the institute like the washroom.” The victim alleged the accused even threatened to kill him if he disclosed about the assault to anyone.
 
 On March 20 this year, around 11 pm the victim was studying in his room when main accused Katoch came to his room and demanded him to perform unnatural sex. When the victim refused, the accused overpowered him and sodomized him while issuing death threats, the complaint alleged.
 
 The victim finally gathered the courage to inform his father about the abuse over phone on March 25. The next day the accused along with 15-20 other students barged into his room and threatened him to tell his father not to approach the police or else they would kill both of them.
 
 The youth’s father came to the institute and tried to meet the dean but he was not available. He told the managing director of the institute about his son’s ordeal and reported the matter to the police.
 
 ASI Sahib Singh, the investigating officer, said, “The accused were booked under sections 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 377 (unnatural offences), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 319 (hurt) of IPC. Katoch was arrested.” 
 
 Assistant sub-inspector Sahib Singh, the investigating officer in the case, said the prime accused, Avneet Katoch, was arrested from Mohali district on Tuesday and the other accused, Sahil Bakhshi, was at large. “Sections of anti-ragging law are yet to be added but it is possible that more sections will be added later,” he said.
 
 
