CHENNAI: With the stock markets on a slippery ground, equity mutual funds (MFs) that invest in shares of overseas firms and global funds have emerged as the best performers in the last one year. Known as ‘international equity MFs’, these funds have trumped their desi peers by delivering 18.8% returns in the last one-year to top the performance charts.

 They have topped the equities category in the three-month and six-month timeframe as well. While the benchmark Sensex and the broader Nifty indices have given only 7.2% and 8.3% returns over the past year, the BSE-mid cap index gained 12.3%.
 
 In contrast, the S&P 500 and the NASDAQ indices in the US have gained 20.7% and 19.1% respectively during the one-year timeframe. Only 20 stocks in the Nifty-50 index gave returns in excess of 10% during 2016 with nine scrips falling by more than 10% in 2016.
 
 The Indian stock markets underperformed its emerging markets (EMs) as well as developed markets (DMs) peers in 2016. Only Shanghai’s benchmark index fared worse than India during the year. Brazil was the top performer among EMs while Russia came second. This resulted in funds having exposure to the Brazilian market becoming top performers in the group. These funds have soared by nearly 80% in the one-year timeframe.
 
 “Global markets have done well and the (US) dollar appreciated last year. This has resulted in these funds turning good performers,” says Sankaran Naren, executive director, ICICI Prudential MF. “The revival of commodity prices has resulted in an improvement in the performance of stock markets in EMs,” says Gopal Agrawal, chief investment officer, Mirae Asset Global Investments India.
 
 “EMs got beaten down due to the rout in commodity prices in the past,” he says. 
 
 The US stock markets rallied strongly in 2016 on hopes of a revival in growth, say industry officials. International MFs that invest in the US markets have gained by 17%-18% in the last one year. 
 
 International MFs that invest in shares of companies engaged in gold mining, metals, energy and mining natural resources businesses have surged at a faster pace than the rest of the pack. These funds have jumped by 29%-62% over the past year.
 
 Though international equity MFs have done well in the past, they come with currency risks, say experts. Funds that invest in companies engaged in commodities businesses have seen huge volatility in the past—with sharp gains being followed by huge fall in returns. Investors have to bear these factors in mind while committing funds to these funds.
 
 With stock markets in India coming up with a poor show in the past two years, industry officials also believe that the growth potential is good in domestic markets. “The Indian markets have gone nowhere in the last two years. Their potential to grow is higher,” Naren says.
 
 
 
