PATNA: The departure of cuddle weather and gradual northward movement in the mercury column has paved way for Nor’wester – sudden thunderstorm activities during summer season. The Patna Meteorological Centre has issued an alert for strong thunderstorm activities along with squall and hailstorm across Bihar from Friday to Sunday.

  revellers can, however, heave a sigh of relief as weathermen have claimed that the turbulent weather would subside by Monday, the day of Holi. The thunderstorm activities are expected to commence from Friday evening and continue till Sunday afternoon.
 
 S Sengupta, director at Patna Meteorological Centre, said high speed north westerly winds are expected to blow at an average speed of 40-75kmph during the thundershowers. The thunderstorm activities are also expected to be accompanied by lightning.
 
 “We are expecting aggressive Nor’wester thunderstorm activities over the next three days with possibility of squall and hailstorm on Friday and Saturday. Strong winds with an average speed of 40-75kmph are expected to blow in the region. Besides, many parts of the state may also witness frequent lightning,” Sengupta told TOI on Thursday.
 
 He attributed the expected thunderstorm activities to multiple weather systems in the region. “Two western disturbances are approaching the northern plains – the first situated over north Jammu and Kashmir and the other over southwest Afghanistan and adjoining Pakistan. Both these systems are expected to lead to scattered to widespread rain and thundershowers in the northern plains. Besides, a trough line has formed between sub-Himalayan West Bengal to Gangetic West Bengal and further to Bangladesh. Moreover, a cyclonic circulation has formed over Chhattisgarh as well. All these systems are collectively leading to heavy moisture incursion over Bihar along with formation of gusty winds,” said Sengupta. 
 
 Such sudden thundershowers along with squall and lightning are common weather phenomenon in this part of the country during the pre-monsoon or summer season. Meteorologists attribute such inclement weather to instability of atmosphere and uneven heating of land, leading to formation of convective clouds, which are capable of violent thunderstorm activities.
 
 “As per meteorology, excess heating of the land during summer season results in convective currents that in turn help in formation of low cumulonimbus clouds, bringing rain accompanied by gusty winds, brewing a typical Nor'wester,” said a senior weatherman at the local   office.
 
 Meanwhile, weathermen have already hinted at severe and lengthy summer season ahead. IMD’s long range forecast based on climate models has suggested that the actual temperature in March may be 0.8 degrees C higher than the normal and 1.25 degrees C above the respective normal in April across the country.
 
 
