NEW DELHI: The Centre’s recent notification on enforcement of the   to tackle   in Delhi and the rest of NCR has “smartly” avoided mentioning the interventions, allege officials who are now tasked with enforcing the same.

 Maintaining that the graded response plan is in force in Delhi-NCR following the SC-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority’s (EPCAs) recent orders, the officials said there should have been clarity in the notification on what the plan is, or it could have been attached as an addendum. The plan is expected to address the air pollution problem besides improving public transportation and traffic woes in the capital and surrounding areas as it lays down a range of interventions, which will be taken up every time air quality deteriorates.
 
 The Centre’s notification issued by the ministry of environment, forests and climate change on January 12 following SC’s order doesn’t really specify the responses or actions that will be implemented. It instead states that “in pursuance of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Environment (Protection) Act 1986, the central government hereby assigns the task of implementation of the Graded Response Action Plan to the EPCA”. 
 
 The SC order dated December 2, 2016, however, had clearly stated that the graded responses be incorporated in the notification. “They have smartly avoided mentioning the responses under the graded response action plan. They could have at least added the document as annexure. Now, the notification only states that the plan will be enforced by EPCA, which isn’t strong enough,” said a Delhi government official who did not wish to be identified. “If we issue an order prohibiting use of diesel generator sets in the city for example, the intervention should be backed legally under the Environment Protection Act, but that’s not the case. There should be no room for the plan to be legally challenged.” 
 
 He added that the issue has been raised with EPCA as well. “The graded response action plan is already in force in the city now as per EPCA’s directions. Not just the environment department, all other departments have been roped in. The notification was issued by the environment ministry, you should ask them why they left out responses in the notification,” said  , secretary, environment.
 
 CPCB, on its part, said they didn’t notify the responses because those were “suggestive”. “We didn’t notify the responses because nothing is constant. Why will we continue to implement the plan if air quality improves? The reason is very simple. The state governments should be proactive in implementing it even without the responses notified. The plan is suggestive and can vary depending on the circumstances,” said Dipankar Saha, in-charge of air quality at  . 
 
 Another CPCB official said, “It’s true that the notification should have mentioned the responses. I am not sure what was the thinking behind not including it. At least the plan should now be uploaded on our and government’s websites for people to understand.” Delhi government officials said the plan was backed by an SC order so they will continue to implement it as per EPCA’s orders.
 
 
