MUMBAI: The crackdown on   for overpricing   has broadened into a multi-agency exercise with state-level   controllers being roped in to check inventories. There are also plans to send in decoy   and 
  through insurers to ensure compliance.

 A day after TOI reported that high-end stents have been withdrawn from city hospitals in a bid to avoid price control, the state Food and Drug Administration ( ) stepped in on Friday to carry out an informal survey on compliance of price capping at hospitals and availability of implants.
 
 Union minister for chemical and fertilizers Ananth Kumar, who was in Mumbai on Friday, said any hospital or clinic found overcharging patients could even face criminal prosecution. “If we come across any such incident, we will first send a notice to the hospital and then follow it up with criminal prosecution. We won’t hesitate to shut down the hospital if there is evidence of profiteering,” he said.
 
 The latest third and fourth generation stents remained out of bounds for patients on Friday on the 
  despite the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) clarifying it was not mandatory.
 
 “We have contacted the local distributors and all major hospitals of the city. They told us that the ones that have been taken away are way too expensive to be offered at the price range fixed by the government. While the stakeholders are working out some solutions with the government, we will keep a check on hospitals and ensure that there is no overcharging in the meantime,” said Vinita Thomas, FDA’s acting joint commissioner for Greater Mumbai, adding there is currently no shortage of stents.
 
 While most hospitals told TOI the price change has already been brought into effect, industry insiders said the   of 
  in the days to come. “Everybody is watching what the others are doing. But costs of hospitalisation, OT, consumables and other elements in an angioplasty package will see a surge,” said a senior administrator of one of the city’s leading hospitals.
 
 Currently, packages are priced between Rs 1.5-2.5 lakh. The cost increases depending on the number of stents deployed. A former director of a Patna-based private hospital that is part of an all-India chain, said the hospital used to charge Rs 90,000 for stents and a similar amount for the procedure, adding up to Rs 1.8 lakh. However, if they have to 
  they will increase the cost of the procedure, he said.
 
 But manufacturers and distributors of the high-end stents, such as Synergy, Alpine, Absorb etc, let FDA officials know that the latest stents cannot be made available within the price range of Rs 30,000 fixed by the NPPA. Many of them have flooded hospitals with the first and second generation of drug eluting stents after removing the latest ones on the pretext of re-labelling. The FDA said any attempt at creating a shortage with be dealt with strongly.
 
 Cardiologists said angioplasties are being performed with second-generation stents. Dr A V Ganesh Kumar, LH Hiranandani Hospital, Powai, said they have gone back to using second-generation stents as procedures can’t be put on hold. Explaining the most crucial difference in generations, he said, “Previous stents had a thickness of 140 microns that sometimes found it difficult to trudge across thick blockages. The thickness of newer versions is almost half, making them easy to bend and maneouvre,” he said. He added a few second generation stents taken for relabelling have been returned but the third and fourth generation ones didn’t come back.
 
 Abbott, one of the leading players, refuted charges of hoarding. “Abbott continues to market our full range of coronary stents available in India. In certain cases, we initiated the process of relabeling to comply with the revised pricing notified by the government order of Feb 13,” the spokesperson. The company maintained that they have also asked distributors to make the bioresorbable vascular scaffold (BVS), which dissolves in body, available at the ceiling prices. However, most doctors said the BVS was unavailable.
 
 
