KOCHI: In an attempt to make   feel at home by listening to their woes and lending them a helping hand, the district administration has come up with mass contact programme ‘Pariharam-2017’. The district collector along with various other officials will interact with the migrant labourers exclusively as part of the programme. 

 Departments labour, police, legal service authority, police, PF and ESI consultants and medical professionals would attend the event. “Mass contact programmes were always held for our own people, but never for the migrants who form a large minority in our district and have   that need to be addressed. Medical camps and awareness programmes were held for them last year. The district collector had suggested organizing an interactive event for migrant labourers apart from the regular awareness and medical camps so that they could directly present their grievances,” said  , district labour officer (Enforcement).
 
  The event to be held at Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Perumbavoor on July 30, will help the migrant labourers seek help for the problems they face related to work and remuneration and petty police cases for which they had to undergo long periods of incarceration.
 
  “The labour department do receive complaints from migrant labourers, but they are very few. Even then, the grievance-redressal takes lot of time. In such a scenario, the interactive session would be of relief for the labourers,” Siyad added. Advocate Bobby Thomas, organizer of  , said: “Most of the time, the crimes committed by the migrant workers are highlighted and the crimes committed against them are never deliberated on. 
 
 They do not have a forum to raise their issues. This event, which is being organized under the headship of district authorities with the aid of various departments and NGOs, will hopefully be of great help to them. The camp will also help them solve issues related to Aadhaar and banking.” In order to publicize the program among migrant labourers in the district, notice distribution in multiple languages has already begun. Announcements in six languages will also be undertaken in the district on Saturday and Sunday, the DLO said.
 
