BOLPUR: The   sent its ripples to   where agitators went on a   on Monday and uprooted the   for the  .Just a little more than two weeks ago -on January 11-chief minister   inspected the site. The mob also set used tyres on fire to pull down the temporary structures for the construction workers

 During the siege, they shouted pro-Mamata slogans and left the spot soon after police rushed to the area. “We had given land for industry . Only new industry can provide us jobs and a living. We didn't give land for a township or a university ,“ said Shiekh Rafique, a resident of neighbouring Kahsipur village. All these farmers, however, got compensation at market prices in 2000, when the government acquired the land. “But since then, in the past 17 years, land prices have soared. We want more compensation,“ said Ra fique. He belongs to the new breed of agitators who feel betrayed with the role of the Krishi Jami Raksha Committee.Another villager, Asadujjaman, endorsed the view. “We don't know why the committee members accepted the university proposal. They didn't even discuss it with the majority of land givers,“ he said.
 
 Mojammel Haque, an old guard, also joined the protest.“We are not opposed to setting up of a township or university.But the government must keep land for industry which they had promised,“ said Haque.
 
 The proposed university has been planned on an 18-acre plot close to the Gitabitan Township along the state highway on the side of the newlyconstructed Webel IT Building. It forms part of the 300acre land the West Bengal Infrastructure Development Corporation (WBIIDC) had in 2000 acquired at Shibpur under Raipur-Supur panchayat along the Bolpur-Ilambazar Road. The purpose was to set up the Bolpur Industrial Development Centre. But the project didn't take off.
 
 Later, WBIIDC floated a joint venture firm -Santiniketan Infrastructure -with an aim to use the land for housing, health centres and educational hub. In 2006, land losers floated the Krishi Jami Raksha Committee demanding return of land in case industry doesn't come up. Else they demanded a higher compensation. A year after in 2007, agitators threw away the WBIIDC signboard and also uprooted the pillars fencing the land. Protesters had gone low since then till trouble began after the CM visited the site along with state urban development minister Firhad Hakim after announcing the government plan to set up a university there.
 
