NAGPUR: More skeletons are tumbling out of Nagpur University’s law faculty fiasco. It has now come to light that even the evaluation of LLB first semester answer sheets was conducted as per new rules, but NU suddenly changed its decision to declare results as per old rules, said evaluators, who checked them.

 On the other hand, senior officials from NU’s Exam Section reiterated that they would be declaring the results as per old rules, since new rules that came into effect after January 27, cannot be applied retrospectively. They however disclosed that the results would be re-released by Thursday evening. “Since the results were withdrawn, we need to seek permission from the NU top brass to reissue them. However, there wouldn’t be any change in the marking pattern since old rules would prevail,” they told TOI.
 
 Officials from NU Academic Section, who were under fire for failure to communicate about new rules, tried to steer away of the controversy. “Although the proposal for amendment was cleared in August, it was tabled before the   only on December 28 meeting, where it was cleared. After that its minutes were prepared which needed Management Council’s approval for getting notified. Since council’s meeting couldn’t take place, the minutes were cleared by vice chancellor SP Kane on January 27, after which new rules were officially notified,” deputy registrar   told TOI.
 
 He added that there was no way those rules could be applied retrospectively to the students. “At the most, those could be made applicable from next session (2017-18). There was no delay from our section in this regard.”
 
 The evaluators told TOI that there was not much change in the new rules except marking pattern and therefore, evaluation part wouldn’t change, even if NU decided to award marks as per amended rules. “In earlier system, the students needed to score 36/80 in theory and 9/20 marks in sessional exams, for clearing the subject. In new marking scheme, they need to score 40/100 marks for the same even if they score zero in sessional. Moreover, they collectively need 50% aggregate in all five subjects to clear the exam,” they informed.
 
 NU’s goof up in results declaration put over 3,000 students in a quandary. Scores of aggravated students had dispatched letters to exam controller Neeraj Khaty, while demanding to issue new mark sheets as per new rules. They claimed that a majority of them were declared failed due to implementation of old marking scheme. On Monday evening, NU suddenly withdrew results from its website after students and teachers pointed out the blunder. 
 
