NEW DELHI: The idea to include   in Team India's coaching staff as batting consultant for overseas Test tours might seem pragmatic, but the move has more layers to it than the obvious bit about what the former India skipper brings to the table as a coach.

 TOI understands that bringing Dravid on board is a part of the compensation the Indian cricket board (BCCI) is 'obliged' to offer him for letting go of his association with   as a mentor.
 
 
 
 The board recently gave Dravid a fresh contract to coach the India 'A' and Under-19 sides for two years. It is learnt that the BCCI's legal team is working out a clause to accommodate Dravid's new role. "The clause is 'he'll be called whenever he is needed'. It doesn't mean he will have to travel on every overseas tour. The board is currently zeroing down on the amount he needs to be paid on top of the existing contract. But one thing is certain that no fresh contract will be made for his role with Team India. It is kind of a part of the compensation," a top BCCI official close to the development told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 
 
 "Dravid will obviously not travel with the team to Sri Lanka as he has to be with the 'A' side in South Africa and   and   will take charge during the upcoming tour. So, all these points need to be kept in mind while formulating Dravid's contract," the official said while mentioning that both   (assistant coach) and R Sridhar (fielding coach) are set to get extensions as Sridhar too has to let go of his role with Kings XI Punjab.
 
 As per the existing contract, Dravid is due to get Rs 4.5 crore in the first year with an approximate 10% increment in the following year, which amounts to Rs 5 crore. The official clarified that the former India captain is certain to get a payment on top of the already agreed amount. It is estimated that Dravid made about Rs 4 crores from the Daredevils.
 
 "Dravid always liked working with the younger lot and he had made it pretty clear he doesn't want to stay away from his family for long. Hence, he likes specific and short-term contracts," a source close to Dravid said.
 
 
 
 
 Confusion reigned while appointing the coach but it has emerged that the CAC was adamant on having an Indian coach and a staff for the team. This meant the race narrowed down between Ravi Shastri and  . "Once the CAC decided to have Indians on board, it was about having consensus on either Shastri or Sehwag. Zaheer was picked for the same reason," the official informed. It may be recalled that when Shastri took over as Team India director in 2014, fielding coach Trevor Penney and bowling coach Joe Dawes were replaced by Sridhar and Bharat Arun respectively. 
 
 
