Through the India-China standoff on Doklam, Indian experts on China have been following announcements by ' .' The hyper-nationalistic newspaper is believed to be mouthpiece of Chinese government. So its anti-India offensive, going to the extent of calling for a war over Doklam,­ is perceived to be Beijing's message to the world at large.

 Watching the Global Times' pronouncements being ceaselessly dissected reminds me of my stint with the paper in 2009, when I was the only Indian on the paper's staff during its launch. When I first met Hu Xijing, the editor-in-chief of Global Times in March 2009, he spoke warmly of India. “China always wants to extend a friendly hand to India. The two are natural partners since ancient times," he said. Zhang Yong, the young, affable managing editor, was equally cordial.
 
 Though Global Times is state-owned, and the editorial readership is connected to the Communist regime (Zhang served on the 2008 Olympics Committee), it initially set out to be a market-driven product.
 
 At a lunch meeting to welcome all the 'foreign experts', Hu spelt out GT's vision-`to facilitate the world to see the real China; its growth story, with both its beauty and ugliness'. The ''experts' included journalists like Richard Burger, who wrote an outspoken blog, 'The Peking Duck'. At the lunch, Hu promised stories that would push the envelope. True to his words, the first ever coverage of the Tiananmen Square tragedy in China appeared in GT that year, though it was simply referred to as 'June 4'. GT also published articles that raised eyebrows; including one on gay rights and one on how urbanisation was robbing China's rural wealth and increasing inequality .
 
 However, this enthusiasm did not last. Soon, it became apparent there was a filter in place and any story critical of the   or government would be blocked. By 2011, Burger had left the paper. He described a staff meeting where Hu ordered his team to visit online forums and social media sites and criticise dissident artist Al Weiwei.
 
 In an interview, Hu was asked if government officials had ever given him instructions on editorial matters. He responded, “It's rare“. But he conceded, “There are always some orders in China's system...I am defending the State's interests." Some who know the functioning of GT well believe Hu uses the op-eds to amplify Chinese officials' private conversations. So GT says what the officials would really like to, but can't due to diplomatic considerations.
 
 Activists have mocked Hu for being a `high-profile 50cent party member' -referring to netizens' groups supposedly paid 50 Chinese cents for each online comment supporting the Communist regime.This does not bother Hu. As long as GT fulfills its self-appointed role of being the party watchdog, it will be allowed to make occasional high-decibel, jingoistic war cries, as in the  . The problem for Hu will arise if India and the world stop treating the paper as a reference.
 
