You've leafed through paperbacks, browsed e-books and listened to audio books. It's time now to meet a book that breathes and blinks, thinks and talks back to you. A  ' in Mumbai, starting next weekend (early June), will allow readers to borrow books which are, well, real people and “check" them out over an intimate conversation for about 30 minutes.

 Not merely a storytelling session, the collection of living books at the Human Library is essentially an assortment of people who have endured different social prejudices while the book and reader experience is designed as an anti-violence initiative to encourage dialogue and cultivate tolerance in a way that several communities long for.
 
 Something   from   had intended when he launched the human library movement 17 years ago. What started as a four-day test run at a music fest in Copenhagen featuring 50 titles or human books, now has its presence in over 70 countries and evolved into a platform that has been shining a light on people, one may never have otherwise crossed paths with.
 
 Mumbai is the third city to host the human library community in India after   and Hyderabad. While 47 Mumbaikars have already listed themselves as human books, at the first living library pop up in the city at a   bookstore on May 28, readers can pick from a broad selection of 12 human books based on their titles, like one would at a traditional library.
 
 The catalogue of titles run the gamut from `Not under my watch' that will see Mumbai's only female traffic warden share her tale of switching from being a grocery shop owner to directing cars in Mumbai's busy arteries to 'Always A Plus, Never a Minus' about an overweight, married, Muslim woman who has defied odds to become a plus-sized model.
  
  
 
 
 But unlike the rules at a regular library, the idea is to break the silence at the Human Library where stories are meant to unfold over one-on-one conversations where readers face their human books, almost like a speed dating session, listen to their tales and connect with the subject.
 
 “Those who volunteer to enlist themselves as a `book' need to make their experiences open and available while readers are encouraged to ask hard questions and expect candid answers in return. It is a place to bridge the gap between people both inside and outside the ring of prejudices ­ be it body image, abuse, mental disorders, sexuality, faith or lifestyle," says Andaleeb Qureshi, a former pharmaceutical engineer steering the human library in Mumbai. At this human book depot scheduled to pop up once every month in the city at different public spaces, the axiom of not judging a book by its cover will perhaps remain true.
 
 (Text By: Mohua Das)
 
 
