PUNE: Three soldiers from Maharashtra were among the 15 who died in the avalanches in Kashmir's Sonmarg and Gurez sectors on Wednesday evening.

 Sepoys Sanju Suresh Khandare, Vikas Pandurang Samundare and Anand Gawai are from Mahar regiment but were serving under 52 Rashtriya Rifles in Kashmir Valley.
 
 Speaking to TOI over the phone, Srinagar-based Army spokesperson  , said, “The bodies were recovered from the debris on Friday. Their identities have been confirmed and their families have been informed.”
 
 The bodies were not brought to Srinagar, the officer added. “A decision will be taken tomorrow as we are facing extreme weather conditions,” he said.
 
 Had the avalanche not hit Kashmir Valley, Khandare would have been spending time with his family at   in Akola district in Vidarbha region of Maharashtra.
 
 His cousin Nazuk said, “Sanju was supposed to come on leave on January 21. He could not do so due to adverse weather conditions in Kashmir for the last few days. He had called to inform me.”
 
 Sanju is survived by his parents, wife Sheetal, daughter and son. “He was the sole earning member of the family. He was jovial by nature,” Nazuk said.
 
 Sanju's school friend Sagar Javanjal, who is with 14 Mahar battalion, told TOI, “We studied in the same school. He was my friend from childhood. He was determined to join the army and he did so before me. During training at Sagar regimental centre, he guided me. It is a big loss for our village.” Sanju always participated in the spiritual functions of his battalion, he added. 
 
 Samundare from Ganjpur village in Beed district was the only hope to improve his family’s financial condition comprising his parents, brother, wife and nine-month-old daughter.
 
 “We do not have land. My parents have worked as labourers throughout their life. They struggled to send us to school. Vikas studied till standard XII and joined the army in 2009. He was our only hope,” his brother Parmeshwar said. He has completed an ITI course and works in Pune as a driver. 
 
 He recalled his last conversation with Vikas. “We used to receive his calls once in two weeks for not more than two or three minutes. Since the weather was bad, Vikas could not speak to his wife for the last few weeks,” he said.
 
 It was Anand’s dream to join the   since childhood which he did in 2009, his brother  , a police constable with the Maharashtra police, said. He is survived by his parents, a brother and four elder sisters.
 
 Anand is from Borgaon village in Akola district and had visited his family on short leave in December. “He was to come on leave next month to look for a bride and get married later this year,” Dhananjay added.
 
