VADODARA: Much has been written about Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III’s moral and financial support to those fighting for India’s independence. But not many know that the visionary ruler had funded the UK’s political party as well. 

 The idea was to garner support from the UK to help India get independence. And, the task was undertaken by freedom fighter   who frequently visited the UK and met labour party leaders. “Tilak was a visionary and he had calculated the rise of Labour Party in early 20th century when it had no significant base in England. He knew that Labour Party was a growing force and it can help India gain its independence in future,” historian Dr Damodar Nene told TOI. 
 
 “Tilak established firm relationship with Labour Party leaders and he knew that if this party was funded well, it can campaign effectively and come into power. Hence, Tilak made a donation of 2,000 pounds to the Labour Party leaders in 1918,” he said.
 
 Lokmanya Tilak - a Biography, a book written by A K Bhagwat and G P Pradhan mentions how prominent Labour Party leaders like Henderson and Webb promised their support for India’s cause. The book also states that the   had pledged itself to assist India in every possible way on January 23, 1918. 
 
 Nene says it was Sayajirao who had given 2,000 pounds to Tilak. “Sayajirao used to finance Tilak’s activities during the freedom struggle for India. Tilak had no definite source of income wherein he could get 2,000 pounds, a huge amount in those days. It was Sayajirao who had given the money to Tilak,” claimed Nene who has written several books on Sayajirao earlier. Nene’s father and grandfather were personal secretary of Sayajirao. 
 
 Nene is detailing this episode in a book that he is currently writing. “The 2,000 pounds donated in 1918 helped Labour Party in increasing its clout in England. From a mere 57 MPs in 1918, Labour Party had 142 MPs in 1922 and the number of votes too doubled from 22.45 lakh in 1918 to 40.76 lakh in 1922,” Nene said.
 
 Labour Party captured power for the first time in 1924. “As Tilak and Sayajirao had envisioned, India got its independence in 1947 when Labour Party was in power in UK. Unfortunately, both were not alive to witness the moment,” Nene added.
 
 
