MUMBAI: The Zig Zag Road that runs up a hillock in   (W) caved in early on Saturday following heavy rain, uprooting three trees which fell on a nearby building. 

 Two cars parked in the compound of the building,  , and the terrace of a ground-floor structure that houses shops were damaged due to the tree falls. No one was injured in the incident. 
 
 Locals said that a portion of the road that caved in had been dug up by a private company a couple of months ago to lay cable lines and that could have caused the incident. 
 
 Following the incident that took place around 3.30pm, local ward officials visited the spot and examined the road. Local corporator Swapna Mhatre and MLA   met the building residents and promised to expedite the road reconstruction process. They also said that they will ensure a contractor who specializes in constructing retaining walls on hills is appointed for the job. 
 
 Madhu Poplai, secretary of Pali Hill Residents Association, said, “A company dug up the road to lay a cable wires just before monsoon last year and damaged the tree roots. Other roads in Bandra have been damaged in a similar manner. Companies do not conduct technical studies before digging up roads.”
 
 The incident has also left minor cracks in the remaining retaining wall along the compound, leaving residents worried. 
 
 Suresh Ahuja, a 70-year-old who lives on the third floor, said, “The trees collapsed one after the other on the boundary wall after the road caved in. The remaining retaining wall has also developed cracks and it could collapse on our building.”
 
 Another building resident said that he returned home around 2am when it was raining heavily. “Me and my family woke up to a loud sound early in the morning. We even felt tremors but ignored it thinking that an accident must have taken place outside. In the morning, we were shocked to see the trees fallen in out compound,” he said.
 
 Mhatre said, “We have been visiting the area since some days to examine trees that can cause any untoward incident and then following up with the   so that they can be trimmed. We will ask the administration to take quick steps to initiate construction of the caved-in road.”
 
