NAGPUR: If anyone still questions the importance of having ground level connect in politics in an age where social media campaigning is on the rise, Hrushikesh ‘Bunty’ Shelke’s story will put their queries to rest.   candidate Shelke has emerged as giant killer in Mahal’s ward no 18 by defeating BJP’s Sudhir ‘Bandu’ Raut, who also happened to be NMC’s standing committee chairman. 

 Considering that   cast his ballot in the same ward, Shelke has managed to swim against the tide and emerge victorious. The ground preparation by Shelke began almost three years with an hyperactive youth cadre around that would pick up issues which other parties thought frivolous or too controversial. 
 
 Be it problems with question paper in board exams, or teachers issue or delay in justice in a murder case — Shelke always kept his feet on the ground and never backed down from an agitation. 
 
 Even though many thought that Mahal was the last place for a Congressman to start building a political presence, Shelke never looked back. The BJP presence in the area would have deterred even a seasoned politician but Shelke decided to start building his political career. 
 
 Shelke would connect with locals on issues that matter and followed up consistently. Holding demonstrations and dharnas were his weapons of choice as he tried to make ruling party politicians and even officials concerned responsible for their actions. 
 
 Speaking after his victory, Shelke said, “My success is solely due to the connect I had with people and my efforts in getting the benefits of government schemes, which BJP completely failed to do. Unfortunately, all BJP corporators have turned into contractors at the expense of citizens.”
 
 Shelke’s victory now also brings challenges as he will find himself in the opposition benches, that too at a time when his party is reeling under a major defeat. How the maverick charts his political path from here on, remains to be seen. 
 
 Coincidently, he will be in familiar territory as the NMC Town Hall where Shelke’s voice will be heard in debates for the next five years, happens to be in his ward.
 
 
