PUNE: City schools are doing their bit to arrest the decline in voter turnout by asking students to spread the message about participating in the polls among their family members as well as around the neighbourhood.

 Schools have organized street plays, mock elections, drawing and essay competitions to instill the  . Some schools have also invited candidates to classrooms so senior students could grill them about promises made as well as discuss civic issues.
 
 Aaryans World School has organized mock elections through the entire week at various branches.   said the mock elections will have candidates, symbols in the form of tortoise, dog, cat, rabbit, among others, police presence during the election process, as well as parents offering chocolates and biscuits as incentives to vote for particular candidates.“The election is being organized mainly to spread awareness among parents while students get an opportunity to understand and experience the actual process,“ she added.
 
 A civic school in Yerawada has organized a drawing contest, centred around the theme `How to increase voter turnout?', for all age groups.
 
 Sadhana Vidyalaya in Chandanagar has invited candidates to the classroom so that senior students can interact with them. “The candidates will have group discussions with school students and some civic issues will be raised by the members present. Our aim is to create awareness regarding the entire election process and we have also called parents during this interaction so they know their candidates and take a studied decision,“ said Sunita Meshram, principal of the school.
 
 Last week, Rajharshi Shahu High School and Junior College in Hadapsar had organized mock elections involving students of Std VIII up to Std XII.
 
 School principal Sandeep Rane said, “Students prepared for these elections almost a month in advance. The aim was to introduce young people to different ideals and concepts of democracy before they themselves become eligible to vote. The elections are designed to give students a better understanding of democracy as it is explained in textbooks.The mock elections would be a real experience for them.This will also help prepare them for their role as voters and encourage them to cast their vote when they become eligible.“
 
