JAIPUR: The   in  's   allegedly gang-raped an 18 year-old student for two months. When she became pregnant in August, they allegedly forced her to undergo abortion, after which her condition worsened. 

 The two used to make the   student stay back in school on the pretext of extra classes and rape her. She was also threatened, cops said. The two are absconding. The girl is unconscious.
 
 Ajeetgarh SHO Mangla Ram said, “The accused -school director Jagdish Yadav and subject teacher Jagat Singh Gujar -made the class XII student stay back after school on the pretext of extra classes, and raped her. She was also intimidated and threatened.“
 
 On August 25, the girl's mother took her for a checkup at a medical centre, after she complained of severe stomach pain and other complications. When Yadav learnt this, he rushed to the spot and convinced her mother to take the girl to a different clinic in Shahpura, claiming its doctors were his `friends', alleged the survivor's family. Cops suspect Yadav may have bribed the clinic doctors to hush up the matter.
 
 On August 28, the clinic doctors told the survivor's mother that her health was deteriorating and she needed to undergo a surgery. Anxious about her health, the family agreed to the surgery, not knowing that she was pregnant and was undergoing an abortion, said cops. After the procedure was done, the girl was discharged from the clinic with a prescription for several drugs.
 
 On September 7, her condition worsened and she was rushed to Jaipur's SMS Hospital, where the doctors informed the family that she had undergone an abortion.
 
 Following this, the girl identified her tormentors and the family filed an FIR against the two teachers, who are absconding.
 
 Cops have launched a manhunt to arrest them. “The role of the clinic is also being probed. A case against the clinic staff would be registered in course of the investigation,“ said a senior police officer. The survivor is still unconscious, and not in a condition to record her statement, cops said.
 
