PATNA: Deputy CM   on Sunday launched an Android-based mobile application, ‘Bandhan Tod’, to sensitize community members across the state against child marriage, dowry and gender inequality and also provide information about various government initiatives and provisions related to these issues. The app also has an SOS feature or alert system that will help those girls who are being forced into early marriages or ill-treated for dowry.

 The app, developed by Gender Alliance, is an initiative of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). If a girl sounds the alert through the app, the   officials would locate the victim and reach out to her help.
 
 Even those girls, who have simple and not smart phones, can also avail of the service. “If one of her friends has an   phone, she can refer her friend’s number who will receive an OTP. Once this OTP is entered in the app, the number is stored. One person can refer many people. If a girl with a simple cellphone is in danger, she can contact her friend who, through the app on her smart phone, will generate an SOS alert for her friend,” a Gender Alliance official explained.
 
  She added that as of now the 274 civil society organisations under Gender Alliance are trying to create peer groups who have access to Android phones in villages who can refer girls through their phone. "We are trying for the government to adopt the app. In the second phase, hopefully with the consent of the government, the campaign will try to sensitize and train health workers who can refer girls from their phone and mobilise community. Mobiwiki has accepted to incentivize this reference method," she said. 
 
 “It is important for people to understand that when   are financially independent there will be no need for dowry. Men have to also play an important role in ending this evil by saying no to dowry,” SuMo said. 
 
 He said no country could move forward without the support from half of its population. “With the 50% reservation for women in panchayats, they have developed tremendously. If you educate a woman, you educate her child too,” he added.
 
  (WDC) managing director   said although there has been a decline in the practice of child marriage in recent years, it is necessary to uproot the practice completely. She stressed that society has to change its views about women. “It is sad that people still think if they spend an exponential sum of money on their sons, they will get it back in the form of dowry,” she said.
 
 UNFPA’s state chief Nadeem Noor said, “A report has been prepared based on the financial and societal situation of the state and an action plan has been readied for the districts, subdivisions and blocks that report the most number of such cases. The report will be released on September 19. An open discussion will also be organized.”
 
