BATHINDA: Amidst opposition from the area residents against the location of the   plants in the state, the   (NGT) has asked the   to operationalize the four plants at the earliest. The waste management plants have been marked for Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Bathinda. While, the waste management project in   has failed miserably , none of the other   has taken off.

 In its order on July 12, the tribunal had directed the Punjab chief secretary to convene a meeting within a week by involving all the stakeholders to find ways to make the plants operational. It also directed the state government to table the report before it in two weeks.In light of these directions, the chief secretary called a meeting of officials concerned, including commissioners of the municipal corporations, on July 19. The NGT has asked the state government as to why its order of November 25, 2014 for setting up plants in the state has not been complied with till now and has stressed the need to realise the collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste in accordance with Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016.
 
 The state government plans to establish eight clus ters for processing the municipal waste generated in the entire state and the NGT, in its November 25, 2014, direction, had asked that the first plant at Bathinda be made operational.
 
 Meanwhile, the people residing in the vicinity of the proposed plants near Amritsar and Jalandhar want the site to be shifted away from habitation; the residents of Bathinda want the plant set up on the Mansa road, to be relocated at somewhere else.
 
 Bathinda plant was set up in 2015, but it could not be operated due to resistance from the people. The Congress, before coming to power, had assured that the plant would be relocated.
 
 Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal told TOI that a site selection committee has been set up to select sites for the proposed plants, including Bathinda where it has already been set up. The committee is looking for sites at Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana.
 
 NGT in its order has said “The state government cannot find an excuse all the time by shifting the blame from one stakeholder to another, including the project proponent for delaying the operationalization. It can hardly be disputed that collection and disposal of municipal solid waste and other waste, not only in the state of Punjab but in the entire country , is a serious challenge. There are enough laws in place and for proper implementation of those laws it is the executive will that can make these projects work in the interest of environment and public health at large. The attitude of the state government and the local authorities should be such as to encourage establishment and operationalization of such plans rather than picking up disputes with the project proponent or other stakeholders“.
 
 The NGT has furthered ordered that the Chief Secretary make recommendations by ensuring that the plants which have been installed starts operating effectively and to their optimum capacity , without any further delay .
 
 Bathinda Municipal Corporation Commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal said “We have prepared the report and will submit it to chief secretary to be put before the NGT. The chief secretary has convened meeting on July 19 where all the details to make Bathinda plant operationalize will be discussed.
 
