SONBHADRA: First-time tribal voter Bheeru Gond was 10 years old when in 2005 he heard from his grandfather Jokhu about the local movement demanding that Duddhi be declared an   reserved for   (ST). Jokhu did not live to see his dream getting fulfilled but Bheeru, along with his family, was among the first to cast vote in Majhauli village on Wednesday morning. 

  "My grandfather believed reservation to Duddhi would be a milestone in the tribal struggle as it would make our voice heard in Vidhan Sabha and help bring tribals to the mainstream," said Bheeru, now 22. "It also boosts our demand to create a separate Duddhi district because Sonbhadra is huge-one of the biggest districts in UP-and voices from remote villages of Duddhi never reach headquarters," he added. 
 
 Excitement across tribal-dominated Duddhi was similar. UP's last constituency was declared reserved for ST along with neighbouring Obra. Duddhi was earlier reserved for Scheduled Castes and Obra was unreserved. Both constituencies are rural. The demand to declare Duddhi ST was first raised in 1960s, but the movement that had lost steam over the years revived in 2000.
 
 "I think ST status will also bring more funds for education, health and drinking water," said Rakesh Baiga, a teacher in Derma village. In Devahar, more than 250 voters walked 10km to reach their booth. "The first thing we want is a road in this hilly, forested area," they said.
 
 In Rantola village, early voters were women. Phoolbasia, 67, said ST status to constituencies will help in inclusion of several forest communities not recognised as tribes as yet.
 
 Manas, from Kurwa village, however, said a lot will depend on the person elected. "Though the constituency has been reserved now, some MLAs in the past were from tribal communities but they did nothing substantial," he said. 
 
 Besides Sushi and Obra, elections were also held in two other assembly constituencies-Robertsganj and Ghorawal. Borders with Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand were sealed since Tuesday. Since the district has a history of Naxalism, central paramilitary forces were deployed. 
 
 
