CUTTACK: Rashmita Behera and   Panda turned stars overnight in Millennium City. An act of honesty not only earned them accolades and appreciation but also made them figures of inspiration.

 Rashmita and Sujata, both studying in Plus III Arts at the   here, work as traffic volunteers for the commissionerate police and they found a bundle of currency notes worth Rs 1 lakh lying on the road on Thursday. Though they come from financially weak families, the girls showed exemplary courage and honesty in handing over the sum to the police.
 
 The duo was manning traffic at the   in the afternoon heat when a bundle of 2,000 rupee notes drew their attention. They picked up the bundle hoping that someone would come to claim the currency notes. But when nobody arrived, the girls called up the traffic ACP, P K Dalai, and on his advice handed over the money to the inspector in charge of the Madhupatna police station. Till the filing of this report, nobody had come to the police station to claim the money.
 
 The honesty of these two traffic volunteers has made them real life 'heroes' in the whole of Odisha. When television screens beamed their story, Union petroleum minister   Pradhan congratulated them on Twitter on Friday. He tweeted that Rashmita and Sujata's gesture would inspire others, especially youths to be honest.
 
 The traffic police also organized a special programme to make other student traffic volunteers and traffic cops aware of the girls' praiseworthy behaviour.
 
 Sujata's father works at a cold drink company and earns Rs 10,000 a month to feed his family of six, while Rashmita's father works as a helper in a social organization and earns a meagre Rs 4,000 a month. Her mother makes paper bags to meet the expenses of her three daughters.
 
 "Despite the hardships at home, not for a single moment did I think of taking the money home. I thought it was my duty to do my job with dedication and duty," said Rashmita. 
 
 For Sujata's father,  , it was the happiest day of his life. "When my father learnt about the incident from television, he was overjoyed. We are four sisters and I am happy that I have made my father proud," said Sujata.
 
 Both the girls aspire to become police officers.
 
