While   has a special fondness for   and got married in Udaipur,   is a big fan of late Maharani Gayatri Devi. The lead pair of fiction drama Chandra Nandini, who were in Jaipur to promote their show, spoke to us about working in the soap, how they had to prepare themselves for a drama which has elements of history and fiction and their Rajasthan connection.

  
  
  
 
 Flaunting an orange sari with pink border, with matching bangles, Shweta shared with us how the late maharani's fashion sense and poise have always inspired her. “I am a huge admirer of Maharani Gayatri Devi. She is my fashion icon. I love buy ing saris, especially chiffon, and the late maharani was known for her chiffon collection and her pearl necklaces,“ she said, adding, “I play a warrior princess in the show Chandra Nandini and Maharani Gayatri Devi has been a source of inspiration for me."
 
 
 
 
 Talking about his connection with the state, Tokas who got married in the lake city Udaipur, shared that he has a special liking for the state. He shared, “Rajasthan has a special place in my heart and life. My wife is very fond of Udaipur as her parents got married here. And that's the reason why we also got married amidst lakes and palaces in that city .“ After playing Akbar in the TV show Jodha Akbar , Rajat is again playing a historical character, Chandragupta Maurya, in his current TV show. Earlier, in Dharti Ka Veer Yodha Prithviraj Chauhan, Rajat has played the role of young Prithviraj Chauhan. So is historical fiction drama what he likes to act in? “Well, I feel happy and humbled that people appreciate the kind of roles I do. But to grow as an actor, I want to explore and do different roles. Recently I did a cameo in Naagin. It was a negative role which was also well-appreciated.“
 
 Talking about the creative liberty taken by makers of historical fiction drama, the actor said, “I totally respect freedom of speech. Whenever a movie or show is made, even if it's based on history , an element of drama is added so that the audience can be entertained. But I do agree that when it comes to filmmaking or freedom of speech, nobody should get hurt ­ neither the makers nor the viewers.“
 
 Shweta, who is playing Nandini, Chandragupta Maurya's third wife in the show, adds, “It's a creative call taken by the channel, the creative team or the production house. Being an actor, I don't have much say and I just portray what I am asked to do. Personally , I love history and this is something that excites me a lot. For me, museums, forts , palaces and ruins are the places to be. Yes, history should not be tampered with but when it comes to fictional presentation, certain element of drama is a must. This is especially so as these are not Web series that finishes in 10 episodes but continue for a long time.“
 
 
 
  
  
 
