NAGPUR: “With depleting conventional sources, the need for alternative and renewable sources of energy is increasing day by day. Unless scientists develop not just workable but scientifically scalable models in   sources and device for effective storage of these resources, India cannot progress in the field of non-conventional energy,” said  , vice-chancellor of  .

 Kane was speaking at the inaugural session of a weeklong workshop or short term training programme (STTP) on the subject ‘Advancements in Renewable Energy and Energy Storage Devices’, organized by the department of electrical engineering at   ( ) on Monday.
 
 Kane said that among all the sections of society the contribution of scientists is the maximum as they work to solve the day to day problems of common people and make their lives comfortable. He called for VNIT scientists and all others attending the programme to work for developing newer sources of energy.
 
 Earlier Mohan Khedkar, head of the electric department and the training coordinator, said that the renewable sources of energy like solar energy, hydroenergy, wind energy, biomass energy and fuel cells have their own prospects and challenges. At present, most of these are expensive but with time when these will be available in plenty, the cost will come down.
 
 Assistant professor and another STTP coordinator A Mitra told TOI that during the training programme 30 participants from across the state will be given both theoretical as well as practical guidance on all the recent fields of energy generation and storage. They will also be taken for an industrial visit to the Haldiram Solar Plant of 2MW. VNIT in its own campus is running street lights and certain lab equipment on solar energy.
 
 Acting VNIT director and dean faculty welfare Prof PM Padole, who has been himself in engaged in such research, said that the workshop was basically aimed at training the teaching the faculty in conducting relevant research in these fields. Dean R & D from Jalgaon Government Engineering College Prof RD Kokate also spoke on the occasion.
 
 RS Surjuse was the third workshop coordinator. Mitra proposed a vote of thanks and Neeta Pande compèred the project. SM Thombr, A Damral, PS Kulkarni, S Budhay, MM Lokhande, V Bhore, S Chattopadhaya, PV Bhale, PK Katti, VS Sapkale will be delivering talks during the training.
 
 
