LUCKNOW: Over centuries of adjustments between Islam and Hinduism since 13th century,   evolved as a society sans any communal divide and no incident of communal clash was recorded ever, said historian  , speaking at Sanatkada festival on Saturday. he added that around 1854, when the Babri Masjid was used by the British to drive a wedge between the two communities, that there were some instances of communal discord, but they were confined to Ayodhya and never reached Lucknow. 

 In a room at Saleempur house with wooden panels from floor to ceiling, Habib inaugurated a lecture series with a talk revolving around the society, homes, lifestyle, culture, ruling class and all other aspects of Lucknow before 1856, as part of the ongoing Sanatkada festival, whose theme this time is Lakhnau ki Reha’ish (homes in Lucknow).
 
 Beginning from   when Lucknow finds its first mention in the inscription of Sheikh Mina the first Sheikhzada who was buried here in 1479, Habib took his listeners on a trail of the city sourcing his talk from 19th century Persian texts, primarily the ‘Haft-Tamasha‘ by   and the letters of an English woman married to one Hasan Ali of the city around 1820-32.
 
 “The city was replete with single-storey houses for the rich and the middle class as suggested in  's poem on his own house unlike the double storey houses of Delhi. The poor had earthen huts with straw roofs. The rich used the elephant or the palanquin for visiting even the neighbourhood and marriages were descent-based in Hindus and status-based among Muslims,” he said. 
 
 Talking about the population of the city, Habib drew home the fact that immediately after the annexation of Oudh, it had gone down to one-third of the original figure as per police census. “There was an unaccounted massacre as punishment for the rebellion that the British never recorded. It can be gauged from the fact that after the first War of Independence, the British who were under siege in the Residency, in Lucknow killed those very Bengal army guards who had protected them for three months, as soon as they got released. What they did with the revolutionaries is unimaginable,” he said. 
 
 Habib added that British printed proudly in England pictures and paintings of killings by cannon fire or by hangings undertaken by them after the mutiny. 
 
 -----------------------------
 
 Day 3 
 
 6:00 am :Concert at dawn: Siatrist Ustad Shahid Parvez
 
 9:00 am: car tour: Lucknow Ki Reha'ish
 
 11:00 am: Neeranafication: revitalizating ruins for their continued viability-talk by Aman Nath
 
 3:30 pm: Story of indo-Portuguese house talk by Gerard Da Cunha
 
 5:00 pm: Bait Baazi
 
 7:30 pm: Mai Savitribai Phule: written, directed and performed by Sushama Deshpande 
 
 
