Nagpur: The infighting in city   unit is finding novel ways of coming out in the open. Some of the leaders, who were denied tickets and are contesting as independents, are claiming support of former ministers Nitin Raut and Satish Chaturvedi in election posters. So far the two leaders have not lodged any complaint with the   ( ) office to crackdown on such candidates.

 When TOI contacted Raut for his reaction, he refused to comment on the issue. Chaturvedi could not be contacted even after repeated attempts.
 
 While some rebels are seeking support of these leaders only for themselves, others are claiming that they are part of the Congress panel. Some rebels have formed panels and are claiming backing of Raut and Chaturvedi for all four candidates.
 
 In ward 3, the four official Congress candidates are Parasram Manwatkar (A),   (B), Sahina Ansari (C) and Sunita Dhole (D). Nasreen Tabassum Khan had sought ticket from D seat, which is reserved for general women. She had the backing of Nitin Raut. However, when Dhole got the ticket instead, she decided to contest as an independent. 
 
 The campaign posters printed by her show her as a part of the Congress panel. The candidates of this ‘panel’ are Manwatkar, Pendam, Ansari and Khan. Nasreen has replaced Dhole by herself. The poster also claims that she has the backing of Raut. Ex-MP   and city Congress president Vikas Thakre do not figure in the poster. Top Congress leaders including state Congress president also figure in the poster.
 
 Another Congress leader Niranjankumar Ramteke, who is contesting from 6A seat also claims the support of Raut. His campaign posters however, do not have photographs of any other Congress leader. Same is the case with Tushar Nandagawli, who is contesting from 2D seat. 
 
 Four Congress rebels — Suryakanta Naidu, Sanjay Kadu, Lalita Sahu and Ramdas Shahu — have formed a panel of independents from ward 4. They are claiming the support of Chaturvedi. The campaign poster does not feature photograph of any other leader.
 
 Supporters of Raut and Chaturvedi claimed that several official candidates of Congress do not have photographs of Muttemwar and Thakre on their election posters. “It clearly shows that there is anger among Congress workers against the two leaders,” a Raut supporter said. 
 
 Sources said that Raut and Chaturvedi have told Congress candidates in their constituencies to not feature Muttemwar and Thakre in election material else they would not campaign for them. Muttemwar and Thakre have also given similar instructions to these candidates.
 
 While rebellion in Congress during NMC elections is nothing new, this time the scale has touched a new low. Some of the rebel candidates have burned effigies of Chavan, Muttemwar and Thakre. Others who are not contesting have performed mock funerals of these leaders.
 
 
