BENGALURU: Worry is writ large on the faces of faculty and students of  , a preschool in HSR Layout, as they enter the classrooms every morning.For, they all know that they are stepping into what has remained the domain of mosquitoes for some time.

 Hundreds of mosquitoes lying on the ground under the impact of mosquito repellent is a common sight in all classrooms. The mosquito menace, in the backdrop of a dengue scare, has resulted in a 50% dip in attendance in the school.
 
 “If an adult like me cannot stand in the school office or classroom due to mosquitoes, you can imagine the plight of children in the age group of 2-6 years. The   needs to tackle this problem immediately,“ said Divyeshwari, mother of a student at ELM Early Education.
 
 The school has complained to everyone possible, including the BBMP and the area councillor, but in vain. Despite inspection and assurance by the councillor, no one has offered any help to these kids.
 
 
 
 
 The mosquito attack happened six months ago. Ironically, BBMP which has to liberate the school from the growing menace, allegedly contributed to it in the first place.
 
 “Six months ago, the BBMP had opened the concrete covered sewage drain to get rid of the garbage blocking it.They took out waste and kept it aside.However, the Palike did not bother to cover the drain once work was over. When it rained, slush went back into the drain.And now it's a breeding ground for mosquitoes,“ said Arpan Patel, member of the school management.
 
 The school has about seven classrooms and a play area facing the drain. Head of the school,   said: “We have pictures and videos of mosquitoes lying all over the floor in the morning. There are 100 children in the school and about 4550% attendance has been affected due to illness. The staff members are also suffering.We have appealed to the BBMP on all platforms, but no action has been taken.“
 
 The school has complained to the BBMP south zone office and its help portal `Sahaya' but have got nothing except the complaint number. The BBMP hasn't even taken up fogging of the area in the recent past, said the management.
 
