You can spot them in different parts of the city, parked on a street, serving delicious food over the weekends, and, if you are lucky, on weekdays as well. What started as an experiment has now become a rage in Bengaluru. With over 40 food trucks currently operating in the city, it seems that the food-truck business is here to stay. But it hasn’t been an easy ride for those operating them. While they will happily serve you food with a smile on their face, there is a lot that they have to deal with when it comes to logistics, food and authorities. BT spoke to a few   owners to find out what hurdles they face while operating in the city. 
Need for designated   space
 Since most of the food trucks are mobile and move from one area to another, food truck owners feel that no designated parking space often affects their business. Nicolas Grossemy, co-founder of Le Casse Croute, says that parking has always been an issue. “The market in Bengaluru is huge. There are many parks and open spaces. If we are designated some space by the local authorities, we could park our trucks there and it will be a big boost for us,” Nicolas said.
 The Bangalore Food Truck Association (BFTA), a body that represents all the food trucks in the city, is working closely with the authorities to draft rules that will be beneficial for everyone. “We are working with various government bodies to give the food trucks fixed parking spots, where they can pay the rent and abide by all the rules and regulations, which in turn will benefit the public, authorities and us,” says Varun Sequeira, President BFTA.
 A lot of the food trucks have begun to cater to tech parks now, as parking there is a lesser hassle for them and are often seen there on weekdays. “Tech parks give us space, hence we have started collaborating with them more often now,” adds Nicolas.
 No clarity when it comes 
 to regulations
 While parking space is a major issue, there seems to be no clarity on rules and regulations pertaining to food trucks in Bengaluru. All the food trucks run on mobile canteens and FSSAI hawker’s licence. “Since there aren’t any written rules or regulations, there is always a conflict between the   and the cops when it comes to parking,” says Vivek Gangishetty, co-founder of Santiago Burritos.
 While most food trucks have the necessary paperwork or licence, they are often stopped and questioned by cops and this has, sometimes, resulted in disagreements. Food truck owners say that they are willing to pay for all the paperwork and will abide by the norms as long as things are regularized. “The last thing we want to do is to create a problem for the authorities and ourselves,” says Nicolas.
 Food truck owners say they have received a mixed response from the local authorities. “Some of them are very adamant while others find it fascinating with what we have done with our trucks and the rare cuisines we serve,” says Varun. 
 Innovative food, 
 creative   a challenge
 Apart from the parking issue, an innovative and changing menu seems to be a challenge for the owners. “Since we serve waffles, we need to come up with something that will attract more customers. We have a set menu and in addition to that we try to make use of the produce available to us such as the seasonal fruits, which we can then incorporate into the menu,” says Gururaj Sindagi, Founder of Go Waffles Food Truck
 Most of the food trucks do a trial and tasting and include a new dish, keeping in mind their customers and their demands.
  -- Sandra Fernandes
