

 
 
 I have no issue with Netaji (Mulayam) but it was increasingly becoming difficult to survive under Akhilesh Yadav's regime. Some of his aides want to change the principles of SP which veteran leaders like us have always followed. I waited till the final word of Netaji but when he also sided with his son, I had to leave SP.
 
 
 
 This is a very private question. In politics we need not necessarily discuss all the details on public forum. But anyway I am happy joining the BSP and all workers here have welcomed me.
 
 
 
 I still believe in social jus tice and ideals of socialism. I have always been against parties which promote communal forces. I think today BSP is the only party which is working for social justice and equality . My ideals very well fit with BSP's ethics.
 
 
 
 Let me tell you that I didn't leave party because I was denied ticket. In fact, my name was in the first list released by the party.
 
 
 
 I have not spoken to him or to anyone in SP af ter leaving the party. Now, Mayawati is my team leader and I follow her in structions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No. SP is going strong because of public support and trust with CM Akhilesh Yadav. Ambika Chaudhary didn't leave on his own but he was expelled from the party because he was pitting family members against each other.
 
 
 
 It's difficult to match up to the stature of my father but still I'm trying to follow his ideals. It takes time to build that same kind of respect and trust among people which my father enjoyed. Now people have started ac knowledging my work.
 
 
 
 I am sorry to say but PM often tends to indulge in loose talk which has no research to back it, be it graveyard or calling east UP a ground for cheating nexus. Yes, I accept until a few years ago, massive copying used to take place due to negligence of education authorities. But, of late, things have changed and action is being against fake colleges.
 
 
 
 Lack of clean drinking water in most parts of Ballia is the main problem. I would like to prepare a supply network throughout Ballia to ensure safe drinking water to locals. Also unemployment and lack of industries are other issues that need attention.
 
