PATNA: Patna, the birthplace of Guru Gobind Singh, will witness one of the biggest nagar kirtans in its history on Wednesday. Two army bands, 20 band parties, 200 horses, two elephants and students of 20 schools will form at least 3-km long procession which will start from Gandhi Maidan at 10am and reach   gurdwara in 10 hours, the organisers said.

 Co-chairman of   sub-committee of Takhat Patna Saheb Gurdwara Sukhjit Singh said it was on the 300th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh that an army band participated in nagar kirtan in the city.
 
 The procession will be led by the two jatthas (groups) of ‘panj pyaras’. They will be in traditional Sikh attire with swords in their hands and walk the entire path barefoot. Ahead of them would be a jeep announcing arrival of nagar kirtan.
 
 Elephants, horses and 10 ‘gatka’ teams will follow these jatthas.   is a form of traditional Sikh martial art. Behind them would be the sea of devotees who would keep reciting ‘gurbani’ throughout the procession. “At least 10 groups of women would recite ‘gurbani’ apart from other devotees,” Sukhjit said.
 
 The band teams of army, local bands and schoolchildren would be interspersed. “We would also have 10 buses with each bus having a doctor. In case anybody falls ill or anybody feels like taking rest, the buses would be handy. Four ambulances have also been pressed into service,” Sukhjit said, adding this is the first time that doctors and ambulances have been pressed into service for nagar kirtan.
 
 Last, but not the least would be ‘palki sahib’. It would be the palanquin where Guru Granth Saheb would be installed. Three water tankers will keep washing the road ahead of the ‘palki sahib’ throughout the route. “The government has also been washing the road once every night for the last three days,” Sukhjit said on Tuesday.
 
 At Gai Ghat Gurdwara in Alamganj, the devotees will halt for langar to be served during lunch time. More than 200 stalls would be put up between Gandhi Maidan and gurdwara by civil society organizations. Sewa Samagam, an NGO, has requested the administration to allow it to put up 151 stalls to offer snacks and water to the devotees taking part in the procession. It will also shower flowers on the procession from all these ‘shivirs’ which will also have paintings depicting life and time of Guru Gobind Singh.
 
 Two educational institutions of Patna City area have also put up a stall near Alamganj police station. Akhil Vishwa Gayatri Parivar had made a requisition for three stalls to the district administration which has been approved.
 
 An NGO, Lakhsya, has come forward to felicitate all the schoolchildren, gatka parties, band teams and others who would display their skills in the nagar kirtan. It will also felicitate the panj pyaras. The nagar kirtan is expected to reach the Patna Saheb gurdwara at 8pm, the organisers said.
 
 
