BENGALURU: As companies grow in size, it becomes increasingly difficult to maintain high levels of growth because the base on which the growth is calculated is higher. The amazing thing about Natarajan Chandrasekaran’s tenure was that he made the elephant in the IT industry,  , run faster than most of its smaller peers.

 When his 
  , TCS’s revenue was $6 billion. In the less than eight years that   was at the helm, revenue nearly tripled to $16.5 billion. He achieved annual growth rates of 14-16% in years when smaller rivals like   and Wipro were doing barely half of that.
 
 And he did it with 
  of 26%-28%. Cognizant’s revenue grew faster through most of this period, but it did so at much lower margins. In 2009-10, when he took over as CEO, the company's operating margin increased to near historic highs of 26.7%, from 23.66% the year before. In the last two quarters of the 2016-17 financial year, Chandrasekaran has managed to keep the margin at 26% despite a variety of headwinds.
 
 Wipro vice chairman TK Kurien calls Chandrasekaran a fierce competitor. He was aggressive on the deal table. The street cheered Chandrasekaran’s performance. TCS’s stock price rocketed 270% during his tenure, nearly quadrupling from Rs 632 in October of 2009 to Rs 2,343 a piece on the BSE on Thursday. TCS has been generous with its dividend payout. In the 2015 financial year, TCS rewarded its shareholders with a dividend of Rs 15,474 crore, 2.5 times the payout in the previous year.
 
 TCS, which counts Citi, GE and JP Morgan as customers, remains the star performer among the   companies. It contributes 70% to Tata Sons’ revenue. TCS remains the most valuable company in India, with a market capitalization of over $70 billion and makes up for 60% of the Tata Group’s collective market cap of $116 billion.
 
 The company has slowed down in recent quarters. The $150-billion Indian IT industry is going through a structural change. Newer technologies like cloud, big data, artificial intelligence and automation have dramatically changed the environment for IT services, and companies are restructuring to deal with these changes. Time will tell whether Chandrasekaran leaves behind an organization with the flexibility and innovativeness necessary to manage this change.
 
