Lucknow: When   chief   casts her vote in Lucknow on Sunday, she will not only exercise her franchise in favor of her party   but will also vote against her former lieutenant Brijesh Pathak who turned rebel to join the saffron ranks last year.

 Mayawati will vote in Lucknow central assembly constituency from where Pathak, who is credited to have played a key role in Maya’s social engineering experiment that catapulted her to power with absolute majority in 2007, is contesting on BJP ticket. Pathak is up against BSP’s Rajeev Srivastava who will accompany Mayawati when she casts her vote in Lucnow Montessori school in Sarojini Naidu marg around 8.30 am, while he will be away voting in a polling station in Gomtinagar. Pathak’s one time senior party colleague and BSP Rajya Sabha MP Satish Chandra Mishra will also go along with Mayawati and vote against Pathak. 
 
 “It is no less than an irony for a man who attained his political stature because of Behenji only to desert her at a crucial juncture,” said a senior BSP functionary. Pathak, though, did not comment on the situation but confided that it was certainly a “different experience”.
 
 A former Lucknow University student union president, Pathak’s first brush with national politics came through when he joined the BSP and got elected to Lok Sabha from Unnao parliamentary seat in 2004. He was thereafter handpicked along with Mishra by Mayawati to execute her social engineering experiment that aimed to woo the upper caste to constitute a rainbow coalition comprising Dalits and Brahmins.
 
 Pathak would drive through various assembly constituencies in central UP to organise ‘Brahmin Bhaichara Sammelans’ that aimed to attach the upper caste with BSP’s strong Dalit base to propel Mayawati as UP chief for the fourth time in 2007. Though he did not contest the 2009 Lok Sabha elections, Mayawati got him nominated to Rajya Sabha the same year. 
 
 Times, however, changed in 2014 when BSP received a humiliating drubbing at the hands of a surging BJP. Pathak, who contested on the BSP ticket from Unnao, lost. He is learnt to have sought an assembly ticket not only for himself but also for his wife and brother, which was refused by Mayawati.
 
 A disgruntled Pathak started thinking something different. And on August 22, 2016, hours after Mayawati addressed a rally in Agra, he walked out of the venue and drove straight to BJP headquarters in Delhi. Moments later, he was sitting by the side of BJP national president Amit Shah and addressing a press conference.
 
 
