The abduction and alleged molestation of a much loved and popular actress in the Malayalam film industry on Friday night has sent shock waves across the Malayalam film industry as well as the State at large.

  While there was protest on social media on Saturday morning that Mollywood is not standing with their colleague, by evening, actors from across the industry expressed their outrage over the incident and extended their support for the actress. Among those who came out in support of the actress were Prithviraj, Manju Warrier, Nivin Pauly, Dulquer Salmaan and Tovino Thomas among others. Several others expressed solidarity with the actress, adding that the culprits should be brought to book.
 
 Meanwhile, Malayalis say the incident has left them speechless with fear. If this can happen to a bold actress like her, it could happen to anyone, people feel. Here’s what they had to say:
 
 
 
 
 
 My friends and I were watching the movie Pink recently. But all this while I never thought such an incident would happen right here in Kochi. But now it has happened. I think there are only long term solutions for this because the short term ones are not working obviously, and we have stopped reacting. Candle light marches and strikes are of no use. People’s mentality is simply not changing at all. The actress is such a bold woman; someone else in her place might not have complained. And it might have happened to other people already, and they must have kept quiet. It happened to a celebrity so you can imagine the situation of a normal person. I don’t think it is personal rivalry, they must have done it just for fun or as a dare. Women have become open to exploitation from all.
  - Anju Mary Joseph, student
 
 
 
 We met her yesterday. She was courageous. We were the ones who lost our strength. No one can take that away from her. I hold her close to me while saluting her courage. It’s our duty to stand by her now. Think for a moment why this happened. What’s the use of pointing fingers at each other at this point? A women’s self-respect is her right, not something which she has to beg for. The mutual respect between man and woman should be a culture both outside and inside the home. Only then will the concept of man as hunter and woman as prey end. The incident happened in a highway, which means that it’s the mentality which needs a change. Whenever such incidents happen, we create hashtags and it ends there. What we need is an end to this, a revolution, I will be at the forefront. 
  - Manju Warrier
 
 
 
 
 Yesterday when I was travelling by car in Kochi I came across a group of policemen checking all vehicles on the street. I thought some VIP might be passing because that’s the only time so many policemen are on alert. Later I realised it was an aftermath of the abduction case. What’s the use of checking vehicles after such an incident happens? The actress was coming towards the city, not going from here. What were the city police doing? Their ‘checking’ seems to be restricted solely to catching drunken drivers, to complete their target for the month.
  The incident is simply terrifying. It can happen to any one of us. My heart goes out to her, she must have felt so helpless. I wish her strength. Also, we always felt being inside a car is safe. I think the perpetrators were so confident because they probably have done it before and got away with it. I also came across some comments on social media saying, ‘Share the videoclip if you get it’. They too should be arrested as they are the kind who will commit such crimes later on. 
 - Minu Pauline, entrepreneur
 
 
 
 Often, there is this pressure on the survivor from peers to come out in the open and be bold enough to reveal the identity so that the perpetrators are put to trial. While some are brave enough to reveal their names as they believe it is the culprits, who need to be shamed, a few others are not mentally prepared to face the repercussions. 
 Rather than trying to decipher various reasons and trying to assassinate the character of the victim, I think it is important that justice is served at the earliest. We live in a time where the intensity of the assault is being measured in a balance. What is a matter of concern is that the resentment among the public and the legal system dies down in no time. I think, discussions galore will not do any good, but the legal system has to be redressed so as to restore faith in humanity, and create a sense of fear in perverted minds. 
 Navya Chandrashekharan, a research student 
 
