NAGPUR:  , celebrated on Monday, was used to highlight issues plaguing the promotion and survival of the language. Experts gave a thought to the ever-increasing adoption of English as an academic medium, and the bigger question of how inclined people are towards their mother tongue.

 Littérateur Dr Shripad Bhalchandra Joshi, president of Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal, believes that the young generation will use Marathi effectively. “With the kind of exposure the younger generation has to technology, they will create their own Marathi. We need not worry about the form or be a puritan. Let language take its own shape. It will not die. One’s mother tongue is the only way to express effectively. We should make children masters of the language, and be confident about its structure instead of thrusting the language upon them,” he says.
 
 In several schools, English is compulsory, whereas, there’s an option between Marathi and Sanskrit. 
 
 “You should know your local language. Recent research has shown that we have an inborn capacity to be multilingual. I feel that the knowledge of four languages should be compulsory. I’ve seen that many youngsters talk in Marathi but can’t read. Moreover, a ‘khichdi’ or ‘cosmo’ language is seen today, where words from two languages or more are used at the same time,” says city builder and patron of Marathi literature Ashutosh Shewalkar.
 
 Subhada Fadnavis, who has been exam chief for   (VSS) for 15 years, believe that the language is only flourishing with each passing year, as the number of non-Marathi applicants taking the exam keeps increasing. “The motivation for orienting a child towards its mother-tongue rests solely on parents and the school,” she says.
 
 Vilas Manekar, a VSS executive, says that almost 18,000 people have taken the exam so far.
 
 Yashwant Manohar, writer and former head of Marathi department at  , says everyone must know English as a universal language, no doubt, and Hindi too. One’s mother tongue, not only Marathi but also others, need their deserved importance.
 
 “Marathi should be compulsory in schools and colleges. All individuals should know Marathi and our values. Its promotion will not only encourage ‘thinking’ in Marathi, it will especially boost research. Then the language will never die,” he pointed out.
 
 
