THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The dawn-to-dusk hartal called by UDF and BJP on Thursday in   against  's mother Mahija was near total across the state. Shops and commercial establishments remained closed and   were off the roads. 

 KPCC president M M Hassan, who once wore the garb of an anti-hartal crusader, said that 'the cruel incident on Wednesday' had weakened his own arguments against hartals. "How can people stay silent on such a cruelty?" he wondered, adding that further agitations will be chalked out after the Malappuram byelection. 
 
 He told reporters that police 'with least provocation' attacked Congress workers who had taken out 'peaceful marches' at various places to protest the police atrocity. "Several of our leaders and workers, including block president Naushad and   secretary Shajahan, were injured in Sasthamkotta," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, senior BJP leader and MLA, O Rajagopal, said that Pinarayi Vijayan was about to encounter the consequences faced by the blind king Dhritharashtrar who had sided with the evil out of his blind love towards his son. "Pinaray has been got reduced to a chief minister who only reads out what is scripted by his police chief," Rajagopal said. 
 
 Rajagopal added that the experience Mahija faced in front of the police headquarters was similar to the harassment Panchali was subjected to in the council of Kauravas. "There is no guarantee that the Pinarayi government will complete its five-years term. The tears of several mothers, including Mahija, wouldn't go waste," he added.
 
 BJP national executive member V Muraledharan said there were concerted attempts to demean the protests by Jishnu Pranoy's mother. 
 
 BJP state general secretary Sobha Surendran has petitioned   for women and child development and Central Women's Commission against the police action against Mahija. In the complaint, Surendran claimed that the security of women in Kerala was under threat following governance failure and lawlessness. 
 
 In a Facebook post, former KPCC president V M Sudheeran said the chief minister has lost moral responsibility to continue in power and asked Vijayan to tender a public apology and quit immediately.
 
