MUMBAI: On the first day of its  , the   reduced garbage sent to the city's three dumping grounds by 250 tonnes. This is an eighth of the targeted reduction of 2,000 tonnes by October 2, but is a start nonetheless.

 The BMC had set the date as the deadline to stop collecting unsegregated waste from housing societies or establishments that generate over 100kg of garbage a day . Civic officials said the 2,000-tonne target would have been met had not politicians (mainly corporators) pressured them to extend the deadline by three months. Citizens too protested against the original deadline on the grounds that they pay municipal taxes and so it's their right that the BMC collects waste from their societies. The BMC's garbage segregation rule is for bulk generators of garbage, including big hotels, which produce at least 100kg of waste a day.
 
 The BMC chief,  , along with other civic officials, hit the road on Monday and visited certain bulk generators to convince them personally about the need for waste segregation. An official said the civic chief is upset at their poor response to the initiative. Around 70% of garbage received at the dumping grounds is wet waste.
 
 A few months ago, the BMC issued notices to 5,304 housing societies and establishments. The criteria was either the 100kg rule or that such societies and establishments occupy an area of at least 20,000 square metres. The civic notice required them to start segregating wet and dry waste, and process wet waste on the premises through, for example, compost pits. But only 470 have complied till October 2. Of these, 373 started segregating waste a few months ago, and 97 started the process on October 2. An official said that once all 5,304 societies and establishments adopt the practice, it will bring down garbage received by the three dumping grounds to 6,000 tonnes a day from 7,800 tonnes a day .
 
 On Monday , Mehta visited a BSNL campus (official and residential premises) in Santacruz (West) and congratulated the people there for making their premises a zero-garbage area. The campus, spread over 1.37 lakh square metres, processes around 120kg of wet waste regularly .Mehta also visited the Nehru Nagar slum in   (West), where the BMC, with the help of social workers, has set up a wet waste processing unit for slum dwellers.
 
 Mehta said he is firm on the decision to make bulk garbage generators practise segregation, as it will reduce the load on the city's dumping grounds, especially Deonar, which is dangerously overfilled. “The BMC will not provide any incentive to citizens for doing their duty .They should accept it as their responsibility to make the city pollution-free.“
 
