CHENNAI: The exam season can be quite chaotic for many, but this year, students have had to already start cramming hard to juggle multiple exams at the same time. CBSE students especially are a worried lot, as the rescheduling of the   timetable due to elections has placed their Biology exam (April 5) and the JEE (main) on April 2, very close to each other.
While the online exam will be held on April 8-9, pen-paper format of the JEE (main) is being held on April 2, which will require students to go to certain centres to write the exam.This time, the students will have to simultaneously tackle their boards too.
 
 Coaching centres said that parents are worried as students will have very less time to prepare for the two exams, which have very different formats. While the board exams have more comprehensive essay answers, preparations for JEE will be very different as it involves multiple choice questions and one word answers.
 
 “Usually we would get a good gap between the board exams and the JEE so that students could prepare for the different formats. But this year, it's a very short span of time, especially for biology students, as they barely have two days in between the two exams,“ said  , who runs Winners' Academy , a coaching centre. Consequently , a lot of students have had to start the prep work for JEE much earlier as they fear there may not be sufficient time later on.  , the admin in-charge of the centre said that many biology students too are taking up the JEE even though they do tilt towards medicine. It is another kind of study material for JEE altogether.
 
 While one section of is busy gearing up for the JEE, another set is concerned about the lack of clarity on release date of  . The   for medical admissions is to be held in May this year. “By December last year, the dates had all been released for NEET including application, fee as well as submission and exam details. However, there seems to be no clear announcement yet this year,“ said Mani, a parent.
 
