VADODARA: With Tuesday being the last day for campaigning for the forthcoming M S University Students Union (MSUSU) polls scheduled on Thursday - student leaders and the outfits supporting them made last minute efforts to woe voters inside the university campus. 

 Unlike the past, this year, on account of delayed elections, the   festivities and public holidays, the student outfits had got just one day for campaigning inside the campus. 
 
 With the election code of conduct coming into effect on Wednesday, student outfits and candidates in fray, will not be able to campaign inside the campus. 
 
 Even as the presence of students who will exercise their voting right in the students union polls was less at many faculties, the wannabe netas made all efforts to reach out to them ahead of the polls which are set to become a triangular battle between the National Students Union of India (NSUI), the   ( ) and the Happy Club. 
 
 Outside the campus, campaigning was also in full swing at private coaching classes. Former general secretary of MSUSU and youth   leader Rutvij Joshi even fell unconscious when he was campaigning for NSUI-backed candidates at a private coaching class in the city. 
 
 At some faculties, student groups came face to face and entered into heated argument. At Faculty of Science, a students’ group demanded that candidature of student leaders from their rival group should be cancelled alleging their involved in recent ruckus at the faculty. 
 
 Teaching work at majority of faculties remained affected due to campaigning inside the campus. At Faculty of Medicine, a candidate contesting for the post of MSUSU vice-president even entered into heated arguments with a teaching staff. 
 
 Interestingly, sources suggest that infighting between different groups of BJP is also having its impact on MSUSU elections. 
 
 With daughter of a BJP corporator, who is eyeing a ticket in the forthcoming assembly elections, in fray, his rivals within the party have started making efforts to ensure victory of the rival student outfit.
 
 
