VISAKHAPATNAM: On the eve of  , a group of Vizagites undertook a heritage   in the   to explore ‘The Untold Story’ of Vizagpatnam. Interestingly, for some Vizagites, this was their first tour amidst all the colonial structures.

 Undertaken by heritage enthusiast and   member Jayshree Hatangadi, a group of 35 people from various walks of life participated on Sunday morning for the three-hour Heritage Walk and visited all 10 points of interest. There were students, photographers, government officials from the tourism department, lawyers and businessmen.
 
 “It’s surprising to note that around 80% of today’s participants have never set foot in all the points though there were born and brought up in Vizag. Advocate DV Somayajulu came with his three friends. He grew up in the area but even he didn’t know the detailed history and story behind the buildings and was thrilled to see all the points. Unfolding the untold story of   prior to World Story Telling Day was indeed an enjoyable experience,” said Jayshree Hatangadi, who organised the walk and explained the history behind every heritage structure to the viewers.
 
 It was an “eye opening” experience for Manisha Bhattacharya, whose family had settled in Vizag way back in 1943. “I never realised there’s so much history and story around me though I grew up in this city. I have travelled around the country and the world but seeing so much history unfolding before the eyes was really a wonderful experience.”
 
 For businessman and skater Rana Uppalapati, it was the first time that he viewed all the 10 heritage spots at one go. “Despite living in Vizag for so many years, we never bothered to revisit this part, which is old and not well-maintained. It was from Old Town that the city started growing. But with the well-organised tour and professional manner in which the history of each spot was narrated to us, it was worth revisiting. There’s also scope for photography and need for maintenance of the dilapidated buildings steeped in history,” he averred.
 
 District tourism officer (DTO) G Veni Kuncha and regional director Sreeramulu Naidu also came for the heritage walk. “The stones of every building, lanes of One Town, the inscribed tombstone, prayer site at the Dargah, the blue ocean facing the town - everything seems to want to tell their side of the story. The tourism department wishes to develop the Town Hall and European cemetery shortly,” said the DTO.
 
 The 10 points visited during Heritage Walk includes Town Hall, Town Hall lane, Kurupam Market, European Cemetery, Queen Victoria’s Pavilion, St John’s Church and School, Queen Mary’s School, Ishaq Madina Dargah, St Aloysius School and Light House. 
 
 
