PATNA: A Bangladeshi national was arrested with fake Aadhaar card on Monday when he was trying to get an Indian passport made from the regional passport office in Patna. He was sent to jail on Tuesday.
 
  The man, identified as   (28), had taken appointment with the passport office on   for getting an Indian passport issued in his name on the basis of a fake Aadhaar card prepared in Madhubani. Regional passport officer Sahtrughan Sinha said the verification officer at the passport office got suspicious over his accent and informed the Shastri Nagar police station.
  
  Ahmed told the police that he was a native of Mymensingh district in Bangladesh and had been living at the house of Khajauli panchayat sarpanch Usha Devi in Madhubani district for the last three months. He had provided Usha’s cellphone number in his Aadhaar card.
  
  “An FIR has been lodged against five persons, including Ahmed and the agency which prepared the Aadhaar card,” City SP (Central)   said.
  
  Sources said he entered India from West Bengal side in October last year and went to Kolkata where he lived for almost a fortnight in a hotel. “Later, Ahmed went to Mumbai where he came in contact with Usha’s son  , who brought him to Khajauli three months back and helped him procure the documents required for making an Indian passport,” said a police source, adding that he had spent more than Rs8,000 for the documents to prove his Indian identity.
  
  This is not for the first time that a Bangladeshi national has tried to get a passport issued from Patna regional office. On March 7 last year, eight Bangladeshi nationals were arrested from Taramohanpur under the Sadar police station area in Darbhanga district. One of them,  , had succeeded in getting an Indian passport (M9740783) from the Patna office on April 27, 2015. His passport was cancelled following the arrest. The other seven had also applied for Indian passport.
  
  On October 29 last year, Mustafa Kamaal (23) and Mohammad Salim (24) of Rakhine (Arakan) state in Myanmar were arrested from the general coach of Purvottar Sampark Kranti Express at Barauni Junction. They had also entered India through Bangladesh. They had planned to visit Kashmir.
