BHOPAL: “Kya bolu main, sab khatam ho gaya…CBI ki baat nahi manana hi uski sabse badi galti thi” (What to say, everything is over…..not listening to   was her biggest mistake), said Saba Farooqui’s uncle Shehzad Farooqui while talking to TOI from Indore after the court verdict on sensational  .

 Shehzad had travelled to Indore along with Saba’s elder sister on Friday night to be present in the CBI special court there on the day of verdict while his wife was glued to TV here in Bhopal. Shehzad said, “Saba is innocent. The CBI was unable to produce strong evidence against her in the court. We are trying to get the order’s copy so that it could be examined by our lawyers for further course of action.” He also said that a CBI officer used to visit their house over the last few years and was trying to convince them to turn Saba as an approver in the case. “CBI officer had promised us that Saba will walk free if she goes their way,” Shehzad said, adding the officer wanted Saba to testify against Zahida in the court. “Saba was not ready to do so and it was the biggest mistake of her life and reason behind all her sufferings,” he said. “After the verdict, we feel like we have reached the point where we started five years ago. It is not just Saba who has been affected by the judgement, we too are ruined. We are shattered now, but we will not give up. We will fight for Saba’s release,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 Saba had started a business in Katara area in 1990s, which she closed following heavy losses. While searching for new ventures Saba came in contact with Zahida and within a few days of their friendship she moved into her house. They started living together. Many allege that Sabha was eyeing her property and this was the reason why she refused to turn CBI’s approver in the case. She was well aware that Zahida owns huge property in Bhopal, besides two petrol pumps. Investigators believe that she encouraged Zahida to commit the murder, as she was aware that she would get control over her properties once she goes behind the bars.
 
