NAGPUR:   on Wednesday lauded the personnel of   (NCDC) for giving their best in tackling any calamity, man-made or otherwise, and protecting precious lives, at times even taking risks one would not even think of. Kumar was speaking as the chief guest at the diamond jubilee year celebrations of  

 Amazed by the feats of NCDC, Kumar said that the personnel always serve the society and demand nothing in return. They have zeal and are full of commitment as they stand like a rock to protect people. These qualities make NCDC personnel a force to reckon with. Their role in rescuing thousands of people in Uttarakhand which bore the brunt of cloudbursts that caused heavy floods and landslides some years back was praiseworthy, Kumar added. 
 
 Kumar said, people should realize that these personnel also need coordination and learn some simple skills when the disaster of great magnitude strikes and manage themselves and those around them. He suggested that everyone should respond promptly and properly at the time of calamities and avoid chaos. People also should lend a helping hand to the needy caught in a disaster, he added. 
 
 With the logo of ‘We train to save lives’, the college is the first of its kind in the country, founded on April 29, 1957. It is the only disaster management training institution situated in Nagpur. Across the country, there are around 10 lakh volunteers. This central institute organizes advanced and specialized training for the leaders of disaster relief and response operations to tackle consequences of any natural or man-made calamities.
 
 In the demonstration part of the programme, the volunteers displayed the kind of work they do at the time of earthquake. Along with volunteers, two girls from Assam performed like a hero. They also showed operations like protection against air strikes, fire and train accidents. In addition, they displayed how to provide first-aid to the victims and rescue people when a fire erupts. When a train accident happened in Bengaluru, the team of NCDC reached the spot in just 27 minutes and played a very important role in saving innumerable lives. 
 
 NCDC volunteers also showed various methods which included 2 parallel ropes, flying fox and many more, where people got to see how an injured person, stuck in the building at the time of a disaster, is rescued.
 
 Addressing the gathering, GS Saini, director of NCDC, said that the college has trained nearly 45,000 personnel and 70,000 master trainers since its inception. They also include foreign nationals. NCDC will continue to train and serve the country, he added.
 
