NAGPUR: At  , a modest liquor joint near  , the man at the counter has never been so busy before. Customers would trickle in at this dingy joint on the upper storey of a building. On Sunday, however, the manager apologized for not being able to talk much. His joint was one of the 60 odd, out of 447 bars, that were still open in the city after the ban on sale of liquor within 500 metres of highways.

 “Earlier, the sales were barely Rs10,000 in the entire day. But it has nearly doubled in just a few hours now. Anyway, excuse me now, yesterday there was a shortfall of Rs5,000 due to the rush, I need to concentrate,” he excused himself.
 
 All 60 bars spared closure after the Supreme Court verdict are clogged with customers. The owners reported sales going up by 50 to 100% of the normal tally.
 
 The guards outside Kirti Bar and Restaurant, within 20 meters of Nasha Bar, were busy helping customers in the parking lot. The line on the street was already full, with new vehicles being adjusted on the pavement. The bar is hardly a few meters outside the 500 metre rule.
 
 “Of course, the crowd has gone up and that is obvious. Our bar comes under the ‘A’ division of excise department. Hardly 15 may be open in this area now. The sales have gone up by 50% of a normal. It is less than what we had expected. It may be due to the Navratra period, when many abstain from drinking. The crowds may be unmanageable after that,” said owner Sahil Deshmukh at Kriti Bar.
 
 A little further, at Bajaj Nagar, the manager at Leo Bar was busy counting cash. There was barely space to stand, even at the counter. “The sales have doubled,” he said and quickly got back to work.
 
 The scene was no different at   next door. As customers quickly took their parcels and doled out money, the owner said nearly 2,000 people turned up on Sunday. “I searched all over Trimurti Nagar but all the shops were closed. I finally could get my stuff of country liquor here,” said Ramkrisna Maraskole, a daily wager. “Thankfully, the shop did not charge more,” he said.
 
 “I have never seen such a crowd at the shop on any other day,” said Rajesh Chaurasia, a pan shop owner outside PVR  . The 400 meter stretch till VNIT main gate has one bar and two liquor shops; all of them were full. “There are a couple of restaurants on Nagpur-Amravati Highway, where you can take your stuff and quietly have drinks,” said a youngster near the shop.
 
 At Ankur Wines in Dharampeth, names of liquor brands called out by customers clogged the air as attendants were busy accepting orders. “Of course, my sales have gone up but that does not make me happy. I do not want to grow at the cost of the entire fraternity,” said a representative of Ankur Wines.
 
 Rajeev Jaiswal, president of Nagpur Permit Room Owners Association, said most of the roads shown as highways on the maps are a part of the city now. This is the reason a majority of the bars have been covered under the ban, despite being located much inside the city. The state government must de-notify the highways inside the cities, he said.
 
