It has been more than a month since the results of NEET-2017 were released, but many parents in Tamil Nadu are yet to know if their children stand any chance of getting an MBBS seat. Neither the CBSE, which conducted the examination, nor the state’s directorate of medical education has published rank lists of the entrance test on their website.

 Hundreds of parents have been spending sleepless nights worrying whether they should wait for the medical counselling, which incidentally has been postponed to an unspecified date or look for admissions in other courses. In the past week many have queued up at Anna University for the engineering counselling. Several students have opted for top courses in premier colleges of Anna University, which they may quit as soon as they get MBBS admission.
 
 If that confusion is not enough, senior ministers of the state government have now rushed to New Delhi to convince Prime Minister Narendra Modi to exempt TN from NEET. There is also no clarity on whether the state will convince the Madras high court about granting an internal reservation of 85% of seats to state board students if admission on the basis of   is mandatory.
 
 When students wrote NEET in 2017, they were writing a competitive exam for the first time in 10 years. It is natural that many students from neighbouring states, trained in such examinations, have outperformed their TN counterparts. Data from several government websites and media resources show that 11,073 students from Uttar Pradesh, 9,718 from   and 7,585 from Delhi cleared NEET with 400 plus marks compared to a mere 740 in TN.
 
 The data clearly shows that fewer students from TN will get seats in government colleges through the   — the 15% of seats surrendered to the centre by every state. This year, the chances of TN students securing seats in the 10 deemed universities of the state are also meagre. The deemed universities — offering more than 1,500 seats — and the director general of health services have allotted the seats mostly to students from other states.
 
 The same misfortune applies to more than 500 management quota seats in self-financing colleges. This year, more than 19,000 students have applied for admissions in the 10 self-financing colleges. Every year, many students from the state would go to Puducherry for admissions in self-financing colleges. NEET scores of TN students will push them down this year. 
 
 As a parent, there are some questions that cross my mind. If the state should surrender seats from its college to the centre, should it not fight for some seats in deemed universities? NEET or no NEET, should the state government not publish a rank list when every other state in the country has done it? Lastly, why are TN parties making politics out of education by rushing to Delhi at the time of admission when they know chances of exemption are almost nil? It seems, there is no answer to these questions. 
 
 (Writer is a civil engineer and parent of an aspiring medical student)
 
