BARASAT: Trouble-torn localities in Basirhat were out of bounds for the Opposition on Friday with the police cordoning off the entire area, denying access to BJP , Left and Congress delegations that were stopped at various points, such as Asoknagar, Deganga and Michael Nagar. 

 The police took the prohibitory step a day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee appealed to political parties to stay away from Basirhat before normality returned to the area.
 
 Even as cops tried to maintain peace on Friday , a day earlier, the Bidhannagar cyber cell rounded up a fireman, Ahammed Hossain from Nadia's Kaliganj for allegedly posting inciting comments on the social media, following reports of tension in Nakasipara. “The police will take strong action against anyone posting objectionable material, which is detrimental to public peace or hurts religious sentiments,“ said ADG (law and order) Anup Sharma.
 
 High drama played out at Michael Nagar near Madhyamgram as the police stopped the BJP delegation's vehicles, headed for Baduria, led by state party president Dilip Ghosh.
 
  Challenged, the team members, including BJP leaders Roopa Ganguly , Locket Chatterjee and  , alighted from their car and questioned the prohibition order. “When we protested, the policemen told us the administration had imposed the prohibition order and any effort to violate it would amount to trespassing,“ said Locket, who along with Roopa, walked past the policemen and tried to break the barricade when they were detained.
 
 The party , however, hasn't taken the entire incident kindly .A BJP delegation from Delhi is supposed to reach out to the troubled areas and prepare a ground reality account before submitting a report to party presi dent  . “The administration has failed to contain the commotion. Yet, the state refused to send additional forces to Basirhat when the Centre offered another four companies,“ state BJP chief Ghosh said.
 
 When it came to stopping Left, the police had an almost equally tough time at Deganga.CPM leader Sujan Chakrabarty wanted to see the copy of the DM's prohibition order. “They didn't let us go but didn't have valid grounds to stop us. They couldn't furnish the order. It shows the government is running the writ by muscle power.There is no rule of law in the state,“ Chakrabarty said.
 
  president Adhir Chowdhury took a different stance when stopped at Barasat as they tried to visit Basirhat. “We were going to help the government restore peace but the administration didn't allow us. The law-and-order scene in the state is going from bad to worse. We urge the CM to call an all-party meeting before things slip out of her hands,“ he said.
 
