PATNA: The district administration has left no stone unturned to ensure safety of lakhs of devotees who are expected to throng different Ganga ghats for the immersion of the idols of Goddess Durga between September 30 and October 3.

 District magistrate Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said 10 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams and adequate number of police personnel will be deployed at each ghat. “Six large boats will be stationed at different ghats. Local boats with life jacket will also be there as a precautionary measure. The ghats will be properly barricaded and lighting arrangements will be done by the administration,” he said.
 
 The DM added elaborate arrangements have been made for smooth passage from pandals to ghats. All the puja committees in Patna have been asked to finish immersion of idols by October 3, he said.
 
 The DM said police personnel will be deployed at riverbanks to prevent onlookers from getting too close to the river. “Special vigil will be maintained from a watch tower near the ghats. The security personnel will monitor the movement of devotees round the clock from September 30 to October 3. CCTV cameras have been installed at certain ghats as to keep an eye on movement of devotees,” the DM added.
 
 Puja committees have also planned ‘visarjan’ programme accordingly. Navyuvak Sangh Shri Durga Puja Samiti, which organises Puja at Dak Bungalow roundabout, will immerse the idol of the Goddess on October 1. “We had sought permission to carry out immersion procession on October 1 instead of September 30. The immersion will take place at Bans ghat. The procession will begin at 12noon and conclude by 2pm,” president of the committee Sanjeev Kumar Toni said.
 
 Some Puja committees have decided to use eco-friendly materials during immersion of idols to avoid pollution in the Ganga. “The idol at our pandal has been prepared with natural colours. Only products which do not cause any harm to the environment have been used. Even the dress and jewellery of the Goddess are made of clay,” said Jitendra Kumar, organiser of Shri Durga Puja Samiti, Mahavirsthan, Raja Bazar. The committee will immerse the idol of the Goddess at Digha-Patliputra ghat on September 30.
 
 
