NEW DELHI: Terming the   fare hike as "anti-people", the Delhi government directed   chief Mangu Singh on Thursday to put its implementation on hold till the government looked into the matter and as to how the fares were decided. Metro fares were last re vised in May and were to go up by up to Rs 10 from October 10.

 Delhi Metro Rail Corporation refused to make any official statement in response to the direction of the state government, but, for now, it appears unlikely that they will hold back on the implementation since the decision of the fare fixation committee ( ) is binding on them. The coming days are likely to see the AAP government and DMRC on a collision course, with the state government indicating that "it will weigh all its options for alternate recourse" if DMRC does not abide by its order, according to sources.
 
 The FFC is independent of DMRC. As per the provisions of the Delhi Metro Rail (Operation and Maintenance) Act, 2002, fares are to be fixed and revised by a regulatory authority (FFC) constituted by the government of India. FFC is a three-member committee and is chaired by an existing and or a retired judge of the high court and representatives from the central and state governments. With the first part of the far revision executed in May and the second phase to be implemented from October 10, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter on Thursday and termed the hike as "anti-people", directing transport minister   to find a solution within a week.
 
 Gahlot subsequently tweeted that he would be meeting the DMRC chief at 2.30pm to discuss the problem. The order directing DMRC to put the hike on hold till the government examined it was subsequently issued. The order also states that it was unclear to the Delhi government whether its stand had been considered by the fare fixation committee.
 
 "The proposed fare hike is likely to adversely affect the interest commuters. [The] Delhi government is completely against any hike in Metro fares. It is not clear as to whether the stand of the Delhi government was considered by the fare fixation committee. [The] Delhi government is in the process of examining the entire matter," the order said.
 
 Saying the hike was likely to hit hard the 30 lakh commuters who use the service every day , the transport minister said it was being done "keeping in mind the interests of the people". "We opposed the hike in May and   also sent letters to DMRC," Gahlot said.
 
 Gahlot also called the fare hike "illogical" and said people were more likely to shift to their cars if it continued this way . "We saw during the last hike that ridership fell. It is not logical to have two hikes in such a short span of time. We aim to promote public transport and this move is only going to push people to go back and use their cars instead," he said.
 
 The minister also pointed out that in the fare fixation meeting of the board of directors earlier this year, the chief secretary and the transport commissioner were not present, hinting that the Delhi government may have been sidestepped. "I have called for all the necessary files and documents. We will review them and see how the fare was hiked," he added.
 
 Asked why the government did not oppose the increase in Metro fares in May , an official said the transport department had written to DMRC in June 2016 to not increase fares. Nevertheless, the fares were hiked.
 
