Nagpur: In a first of its kind project, the   ( ), in association with Rotary Club (Nagpur) and city based NGO Swacch, is going to collect sanitary napkins from door-to-door at a meagre cost. The initiative will be introduced from International women’s day to be celebrated on March 8.

 According to an estimate prepared by both the NGOs, the city generates around 300 tonnes of sanitary napkin waste per month which otherwise causes blockage of drains, foul smell and adds to annual maintenance cost of NMC as well as other societies.
 
 Corporator Pragati   took the initiative and allocated funds from NMC to begin the project. Patil said, “There was a need to systematize used sanitary napkins. We aim to introduce a system for collection of napkins at doorsteps followed by proper disposal. It is unfortunate to see animals feeding on such napkins lying on the road. I have personally witnessed girls throwing it outside their apartment windows. Even flushing it in the washroom clogs the drain.”
 
 She further added, “We started visiting societies and hostels and explained the women about the system. Thankfully, even they took interest and cleared their doubts. The service providers for collection of waste are already registered with NMC and have been finalized for this particular project by NMC and   (MPCB).
 
 “With time, we will make the entire city adopt the system. For this, we are trying to approach all the corporators to support us and adopt the system in their prabhags.”
 
 Annu Chabarani from Swacch said, “Initially the project will be running at areas like Dharampeth, Shankar Nagar, Ramdaspeth, Dhantoli and   where five societies and two hostels have shown interest as of now. We want women from other areas to come forward as well.”
 
 “We will be distributing biodegradable bags to every house to put the used napkins which will be dumped collectively in yellow-coloured bins provided to every registered society and hostel. The service providers will be collecting the waste from yellow bins on every alternate day, at around 9am,” she added.
 
 Shifali Dudhbade, who is also from Swacch, said, “ The initiative will save the additional cost that NMC spends in overcoming the menace caused by napkins which clogs nullahs.”
 
 The Plan
 
 Ladies in hostels and societies will be provided with biodegradable bags to dump napkins
 
 Bags will be dumps collectively in a yellow-coloured bin allotted to each society and hostel
 
 Waste collectors from NMC will be visiting registered societies and hostel every alternate morning
 
 Individual house will have to pay Rs30 per month for the collection
 
 
