Mumbai:   ideologue   has indicated that the state might be heading towards a   poll. The development is an indication that the Shiv Sena, stung by the BJP’s impressive tally of 82 seats in the  , might be preparing to precipitate matters for the 28-month-old Devendra Fadnavis regime in the state, said observers.

 Having separately fought the BMC election, the   and Shiv Sena are now locked in a bitter feud over bagging the mayor’s post. The BJP is in no mood to send reconciliation feelers to Matoshree, while the Sena has reportedly begun contacting smaller parties — MIM, NCP and MNS — for support in the mayoral election.
 
 Talking to a Marathi news channel on Monday, Raut, an MP, claimed the Shiv Sena would win the mayor’s election on its own steam. “Uddhavji has made it amply clear that the Sena would not ink a pact with any political party,” he said. 
 
 He was quick to add that things could take a different turn too. “The PM may be from their party (BJP) and the governor may be their appointee, but they shouldn’t labour under the belief that the state government is stable. It is not. Maharashtra will face a mid-term poll anytime soon,” Raut said.
 
 Speculation is rife that the Shiv Sena, which is keen on installing its  , may try to work out a cooperation formula with the Congress to cut the BJP down to size.
 
 On Monday, Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamna also slammed the BJP for sharing power with the PDP in Jammu & Kashmir. In an indication that the Congress was not untouchable for the Shiv Sena, the edit said the party was a preferrable over the “pro-Pakistan” PDP in J&K.
 
 Mumbai Regional Congress Committee chief Sanjay Nirupam outright rejected the idea. “The Congress will have no truck with either the BJP or the Sena. We will keep our distance from both parties. We can under no circumstances dilute our ideology,” Nirupam said.
 
 Things could look brighter for the Shiv Sena if the Congress chooses to put up its nominee in the mayoral poll, said experts.
 
 Raut, on the other hand, wants the BJP to play the role of the Opposition in the civic body with “probity and transparency”.
 
 Raut slammed the city’s Gujarati and Jain communities for backing the BJP. “The Sena gave these communities protection during times of crisis,” he said.
 
