AURANGABAD: Taking note of the report published in TOI, municipal commissioner   on Monday said an FIR will be lodged against concerned department head if office files are found in possession of an outsider or corporator.

 “No outsider should be allowed to handle files and if corporators or their representatives bring office files to me to seek approvals, I will hold the concerned head of department (HOD) responsible for it and lodged a police complaint against him. It will be the responsibility of the HODs not allowing any outsider to handle the crucial documents,” Bakoria said in a weekly meeting.
 
 “All the HODs should keep the file in their possession and make entries whenever it is sent to other department. It is mandatory on the part of the department heads to ensure that proper numbers are put on each file and entries are made in inward and outward registers. Besides, no payments will be released unless vouchers are verified,” he said.
 
 TOI had published a story on Monday highlighting how some of the corporators and other influential people carry crucial files from one department to another leaving space for manipulations. The report also highlighted how various contractors have an easy access to the files. And often, they are seen carrying it.
 
 The outsiders not only keep a close watch on the files, but they openly carry it on the premises of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s (AMC) main administrative building.
 
 Recently, two private contractors have submitted a file with fake bills in an attempt to get their payments released. However, account department officials foiled the attempt at the last moment but the incident has raised a serious question mark over the   prevailing in the AMC for quite some time.
 
 In another attempt to improve AMC’s administrative system, Bakoria asked all HODs to start using internet facility. “Every HOD should learn how to send e-mails. Those (HODs) who are not well verse with it should learn sending e-mail system as early as possible,” he said.
 
 There are about 15 HODs and 30 branch and section heads in the civic body out of which nearly 50% are either not familiar the e-mails or do not use it frequently. Interestingly, the computer section of the civic body had prepared e-mail IDs for all HODs around 18 months ago.
 
