KANNUR: The   seems to be betting big on the island clusters of Lakshadweep and the plan is to strengthen its foothold with the support of the ruling   ( ) there. But there is concern among the people that it might affect the social fabric of the society in the islands. 

 It was on May 16, that BJP national president Amit Shah attended a BJP programme in Kavarathi, in which NCP leader and Lakshadweep MP Mohammed Faisal also attended, giving rise to the speculations that the BJP has made big-time offers to the NCP, including a ministerial berth at the Centre.
 
 Though the NCP leadership claims there is no plan to join the BJP or cooperate with them, they agree the BJP wants to grow in the land of the coral reefs, to keep away the Congress from power.
 
 "Though earlier the Congress was the major party here, now it is the NCP which is dominant, and naturally the BJP believes they could keep the Congress away from power through the support of the NCP only, but that does not mean the NCP would join hands with the BJP or merge with the party," said Faisal.
 
 He said he attended the BJP function because Amit Shah was the guest in his constituency and it was just a courtesy call. He said there was no offer as such from the BJP.
 
 But other parties think this newfound romance might result in new equations that would not be good for the social fabric of the islands comprising only Muslims, though it might bring about some   development.
 
 "The BJP does not have much of a foothold here, as it got only around 190 votes in the last Lok Sabha election, but the NCP knows that if they have to bring in development in this union territory, they need the support of the BJP, which rules at the Centre," said Lukmanul Hakeem, the local secretary of the CPM there.
 
 "In a Muslim society where the IUML does not have a unit, the efforts of the BJP cannot be seen as a simple affair and its communal implications might be serious, though not immediate," he said, adding that the growth of the BJP was not good for the future of the place and its communal harmony. 
 
 "When a party with a Hindu communal tag makes inroads into a Muslim society, it is possible to create some divide among the people, which might in the long run affect the social and communal fabric here," said Moosa I, a resident.
 
 Even the appointment of Farooq Khan, who is a retired IPS officer and a BJP leader, as the Lakshadweep administrator should be seen as part of long-term game plan, feel the people. 
 
