MUMBAI: A sessions court recently rejected the discharge plea of  ,   (67), a former billiards and snooker champion, after his brother’s widow alleged that he had fraudulently help her husband’s flat to be received under the sports quota to his nephew, who was not a sports person. Subhash had moved the sessions court after a magistrate court had rejected his plea for discharge in February last year. 

 The magistrate’s court had said that there was sufficient material to frame charges against the accused under sections 407 ( ) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. 
 
 The complaint was filed by Vanita Agarwal, wife of former world snooker champion Om Prakash Agarwal, who died in 1994, at the age of 37. The Andheri police, on the order of the magistrate’s court, registered a case against Subhash in 2007. 
 
 Subhash told TOI that he would consult his lawyer and decide on the next course of action. “I have no involvement in the case and regret that I have been dragged into this,” he said.
 
 Vanita said Green Blaze Cooperative Society was formed by her husband for sportsmen. As per the society’s resolution, 50% flats, to be constructed on land that was to be allotted by the government, would be given to sportsmen, and the remaining to others. She alleged that on the death of her husband it was the duty of the accused to inform her and her son, Omprakash’s legal heirs, so that they could secure membership in the society.
 
 She alleged that Subhash had corresponded with the collector about the death without informing him about the legal heirs. Vanita said Subhash had committed criminal breach of trust. After police completed investigations, a chargesheet was filed.
 
 Subash, in his revision application filed before a sessions court, said Omprakash’s permanent membership was cancelled owing to his death, and the collector was informed. The defence contended that Vanita was also informed and told to put up grievances, if any, following her husband’s death. It said Subhash’s nephew, Hemant Agarwal’s membership could not be disputed as Omprakash’s membership was cancelled and he had also produced a certificate showing that he was a volleyball player. 
 
 Stating that the magistrate had not considered these aspects, Subhash sought discharge from the case.
 
 The sessions court said, referring to the FIR, the magistrate’s court order required no interference and dismissed Subhash’s plea.
 
 
