AHMEDABAD: If Ratnagiri in Maharashtra is famous for its hafoos mangoes and Junagadh for its kesar mangoes, Navsari district is now known as the district producing the largest amount of sapota (chikoo) in the country.

 Navsari, according to data from the Union agriculture ministry, saw a record 26% rise in chikoo production in 2014-15. This   district is possibly the only one in the country to produce chikoos round the year, barring the monsoon season.
 
 Experts feel the hot and humid climate of Navsari makes it the best location for chikoo cultivation. Officials said that according to data from 2014-15, some 97,000 metric tonnes were produced on 7,660 hectares in Navsari alone. This number was 76,000 metric tonnes in 2013-14. Officials said chikoo production in Gujarat was 2.26 lakh metric tons spread across 21,660 hectares. State-wise, Gujarat ranks second after Karnataka, which produces some 2.42 lakh metric tonnes. Karnataka and Gujarat together account for half of the country’s 8.5 lakh metric tonnes produced.
 
 B N Patel, dean of  , Navsari Agricultural University, said: “The chikoo crop in Navsari is available round the year, barring the monsoon season. In the rest of the country, the crop is available only from November-end to March. Productivity in south Gujarat is high, at over 10 metric tonnes per hectare.”
 
 Dr  , former dean of Horticulture College, said: “The area is a coastal one and the climate is hot and humid, which is best suited for chikoo. The crop is mainly grown in South Gujarat.”
 
 Officials said that of the 2.26 lakh metric tonnes of chikoo produced in Gujrat, Navsari, Valsad and Surat account for 1.5 lakh metric tonnes. Apart from South Gujarat, Junagadh and Bhavnagar also produce chikoo substantial amounts of chikoo.
 
 Officials said that in 2014, due to frequent unseasonal weather and poor flowering, production had fallen. Apart from the weather, chikoo farmers in South Gujarat are facing rising production costs. The cost of manual plucking has risen almost 80% in the last two years. B N Patel said a lot of farmers switched from chikoo cultivation to mango last year.
 
