Standing shoulder to shoulder with their hands held firmly, Mahant Gyan Das of Ayodhya's famed Hanumangarhi Temple and his childhood friend Sadiq Ali survey the ongoing repair of Shah Alam mosque. The election din and dispute over RamjanmabhoomiBabri Masjid, less than a kilometre away from the mosque, has not taken away their bonhomie a wee bit.

 The Shah Alam mosque, whose walls were crumbling and pillars falling off till seven months ago, stands on a land belonging to Hanumangarhi shrine.The mahant has allowed its reconstruction as local municipal body had ordered its demolition. The land for the temple was gifted by then Nawab of Awadh Shujaudullah in 1765. When Ayodhya municipal council wrote to Gyan Das on July 25 last year asking his opinion whether to demolish the dilapidated structure or repair it, his mind immediately raced to the horrors of 1992 demolition of Babri masjid, that is less than a kilometre away from here.
 
 “Kindly decide on repair or razing off the structure (Tatkaal jirnodwar athwa dhwastikaran sunischit karein. taaki bhaviyasa main koi apriya ghatna roki jaa sake“ the letter said. “Within 24 hours, I rang up my childhood friend Sadiq, who I fondly call `Babu', and asked him to begin the repair work before polls. We didn't want to see any disharmony between our community for yet another time“ Das recalls. Though he faced stiff opposition from both Muslims and Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parish ad, he told the civic authorities that his decision was final. “Muslims told me that according to Sharia laws, I can't pay for their mosque. I agreed but I said I will bring my friend who will oversee the work. Hindus objected to my gesture. I told them we don't want to see another Babri episode in our peaceful Ayodhya before 2017 polls,“ he says.
 
 
 
 
 According to data provided by districts administration, 168 new temples have been constructed in Ayodhya after 2014 and 1,870 since 1992. Their records were registered in June 2016. Overall, there are 5,485 registered temples and 18 mosques in Ayodhya. No new mosque has come up since 2014.
 
