CHANDIGARH:The much-awaited state-of-the-art light weight   for armed forces personnel would not only help them move with greater agility during counter-insurgency operations but they could be customized depending upon  

 Giving details about the upcoming bulletproof “Make in India” jackets for troops, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) consultant   (retd) told TOI that the jackets are under production at ordnance factory in Kanpur and set for induction in next few months. He also added that the new jackets would also give a feel of modular clothing to troops.
 
 Lt  , who retired as Army deputy chief, had shared these details on Thursday during a   on “Reforms in Defence Procurement — Opportunities for the Northern Region” held at Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) regional officer.
 
 Explaining about its security features, Gen Singh said the jackets would be completely indigenous and for the first time made according to   “After defining the standard, these prototype bulletproof jackets were made under controlled conditions,” he said.
 
 Thereafter, they were randomly picked up from different lots and put on trial to ensure that quality and safety is not compromised. Once the prototype was approved, we had ordered for their production at the ordnance factory and some private parties,” said Gen Singh.
 
 Stating the features of the jackets, Lt Gen Singh said that special focus has been given on the size of the jackets to ensure it fits on all size soldiers and they do not feel uncomfortable. It would not only a protection gear but would also be modular clothing, which would keep soldiers efficient during normal wear, he added.
 
 He further explained that the new jackets would be customized and the soldiers would be able to wear them in accordance to their requirements.
 
 “If a soldier is in picket, he need not to wear rear portion of the jacket and can continue duty with front portion of the jacket. Similarly the helmet, neck-guard, groin and sides can be customized as per operational needs”, Gen Singh elaborated.
 
 The DRDO had been working on the development of these prototypes bullet-proof jackets, as per the newer technical specifications, using different state-of-the-art ballistic materials.
 
 This under-development prototype aims to protect against AK 47s and self-loading rifle bullets. Stated to be ultra-lightweight, these jackets are reportedly 8-times lesser in weight than the present jackets used by the armed forces. It is for the first time that Army would have bullet-proof jacket manufactured completely in India.
 
