AMRITSAR: There are many reasons that are doing the rounds in Amritsar to explain the   at the 11   falling in the  . With 10 seats having a turnout under 75%, candidates of all three parties are saying that this was due to their opponents not putting up a strong challenge,   in constituencies like Majitha, and inclement weather.

 This time around, Amritsar district had a turnout of 67%, as against 71% during the 2012 assembly elections. Majitha, where 45 polling machines had malfunctioned, saw the sharpest decline in voting — falling from 80.77% in 2012 to 68% this time. According to Guru Nanak Dev University political science professor Kuldeep Singh, the low turnout was possibly because committed voters of some parties did not come out to vote. “I attribute the poor polling percentage in Amritsar district to committed voters of political parties, mainly SAD and BJP, not voting,” he said. “The committed vote bank of a party either votes or does not vote at all. In this case, workers and committed voters of SAD and BJP might have thought that the ruling alliance didn’t perform up to their expectations and so they refused to cast their vote.”
 
 The Congress candidate from Majitha, Sukhjinder Raj Singh Lalli Majithia, said the voting percentage in the constituency would have been higher if the EVMs would not have malfunctioned. “I don’t believe this figure; had it not been for those glitches, the turnout would have crossed 85%,” he said.
 
 The second sharpest decline in voting was in Raja Sansi, where the figure fell from 82.01% last time to 70% this year. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate from the seat, Jagjot Singh, blamed “inclement weather” for this. “I don’t’ find any other reason,” he said.
 
 However, Congress’s Amritsar South constituency candidate, Inderbir Singh Bolaria, had a different take on the turnout in his constituency falling from 63.66% to 60%. “Congress has done extremely well. Since my rivals had nothing to show for their work, their voters kept away,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, the BJP candidate from Amritsar East, Rajesh Huny, blamed the “decline” in the popularity graph of the Congress nominee from his seat, Navjot Singh Sidhu. “Congress workers didn’t come out of homes to vote,” he said.
 
 The voter turnout in Amritsar East fell by 3%, from 66.16% in 2012 to 63% this year. On the other hand, the SAD-BJP Lok Sabha byelection candidate, Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, also blamed bad weather. “Our voters came out in large numbers,” he said. The Congress nominee from the parliamentary seat, Gurjit Singh Aujla, cited “faulty EVMs”. “People came to vote in large numbers, but many returned as they had to wait due to  ,” he said.
 
 
 
