NEW DELHI: The 2011   figures and data obtained through satellite imagery led to redrawing of wards for the 2017 municipal elections.

 The state election commission has cited these as primary reason for the delimitation of wards/constituencies, in an affidavit filed in the Delhi high court. Even as it set in motion the civic poll process on Tuesday, the state election commission, in a detailed reply filed in court, justified its decision to reserve wards/seats for scheduled caste (SC) and women in the upcoming elections.
 
 “A perusal of the new Census data of 2011 would show that the density and volume of population in various wards and assembly seats across the three corporations had substantially changed in comparison to last election,” the state EC said in its response.
 
 It also informed the court that “to make more or less equitable sized ward while maintaining the assembly boundaries, it carried out a detailed delimitation exercise using satellite imagery and latest technology” that led to it passing the January 13 delimitation order.
 
 The state EC outlined the procedure before court, saying that the “physical verification and data is compiled with the help of satellite imagery and other steps used to determine and delineate the extent and boundaries of wards.”
 
 After publicising the proposed list of wards, it invited and dealt with objections by various political parties and representatives, before freezing the final list of reserved wards for SC and women candidates.
 
 “Various options were considered and finally consensus was drawn over method adopted by the   for Delhi” the state EC said in its reply, adding that “the adoption of the formula also ensures rotation of seats as the ward areas and ward numbers have also simultaneously changed as compared to previous municipal polls owing to changed population census and density of population etc.”
 
 HC had last week sought reply of the poll panel on pleas seeking to quash the notification laying down the manner of allocation of wards for reserved categories and women in the upcoming  . It had directed them to file an affidavit explaining the manner in which they had allotted the seats for the reserved category.
 
 The petitioners sought quashing of the January order with regard to delimitation of 272 wards with the composition of wards in each Assembly constituency. Claiming that the present notification is contrary to the Constitution as well as Section 3 of the DMC Act, one of the petitioners demanded that it should be quashed and a fresh circular issued in accordance with the law.
 
 The petition sought direction to identify and determine the municipal wards for the purpose of reservation for SC, women and general category in terms of Article 243 of the Constitution. The Article provides for reservation of seats for SC in the municipal area by rotation to different constituency in the municipality.
 
 In sum, the petitioners alleged that the poll panel, government and others agencies have not made reservation to different constituencies in a municipality by rotation seeking a stay on the process, a prayer the high court had declined on the last date of hearing.
 
 
