The Shiv Sena has thrown all its might into winning back the   (NMC) that it lost to Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra   in 2012. In the February 21 battle of ballots, the MNS has faded but the BJP has turned from a friend to a foe.

 The BJP and the Shiv Sena, which still share ties at the Centre and the state, have decided to contest elections separately and are engaged in a fierce electoral battle to win a majority in the 122-member Nashik civic body. 
 
 As the poll   concluded on Sunday, a vast section of voters seemed a tad inclined toward the Shiv Sena rather than the BJP. Unlike the Sena, the city unit of the BJP is fighting hard to cope with huge internal squabbles as a section of the leaders are unhappy with the manner in which the party leadership distributed tickets. 
 
 Never in the recent past has the BJP had to deal with 24 rebels, who took the plunge in the electoral battle as independents as they were denied party nomination. In turn, they are likely to ruin the prospects of the official nominees and severely jeopardise the party’s dream of coming to power in the civic body. 
 
 Taking a firm stand against the rebels, the BJP expelled the rebels just two days back. What has compounded the woes of BJP is that many dedicated party workers are upset with the top city BJP leaders for inducting and giving tickets to many outsiders, some of whom with dubious background. 
 
 The party is also battling the allegations of corruption following a video that surfaced showing a BJP office clerk demanding money from an aspirant before the ticket distribution. Interestingly, state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis recently admitted that the going will be tough for the BJP in the Nashik civic polls. 
 
 The Sena has been able to manage its disgruntled elements who did not get tickets. Initially though, there was an unsavoury incident where party workers allegedly heckled city Sena chief Ajay Boraste. 
 
 Political experts said Sena’s advantage is its dedicated grass-roots level workers in each area of the city. The party has also been able to create a favourable impression among the voters by raising its voices against demonetisation, diversion of drinking water from Nashik to Marathwada during drought last year, etc. 
 
 As far as the ruling   is concerned, it is unlikely to retain power in NMC for a plethora of reasons. A sizeable section of the city voters is rather ‘disillusioned’ with the party for not keeping the promises it made in 2012. Whatever work was done by MNS was at the fag end of its tenure, when the civic polls were approaching. Moreover, 30 of its 40 corporators joined either the Shiv Sena or the BJP. 
 
 The NCP-Congress combine is unlikely to put up a good show in the absence of Chhagan Bhujbal. With immense resources and organisational abilities, Bhujbal was the galvanising factor for the rank and file of the NCP. The vigour and enthusiasm among a section of the NCP camp workers is rather missing.
 
 Barring NCP MP Supriya Sule and state Congress chief Ashok Chavan, no other heavyweights of any of these two parties visited Nashik for rallies in the run-up to the polls. 
 
