  : Those purchasing new vehicles may look forward to having   instead of certificates on paper that are currently being issued. 

 A senior officer of the Nashik regional transport office ( ) on Tuesday disclosed the plans when TOI asked him when the system of smart cards will start again.
 
 "Why smart cards? Discussions are under way at the senior level on issuing soft copies to vehicle owners, who can store the soft copy of vehicle registration in their mobiles," the officer said.
 
 The soft copy system will also be convenient for RTO officials and police inspectors during the vehicle checking drives, the official said. 
 
 It has been over two-and-a-half years that the RTOs in the state have stopped issuing smart cards for vehicle registration due to some technical problems. 
 
 The certificates that are being issued are on plain paper and are disliked by vehicle owners. The   registers over one lakh new vehicles every year and the motorists are being issued these certificates. 
 
 During the last financial year, the RTO registered 1,01540 new vehicles and 1,09,802 a year before. The officials said that in 2014-15, they had registered 1,04,262 new vehicles. 
 
 The RTO official said that though it may take some time, the new system of vehicle registration certificate is very much likely to be introduced. 
 
 Meanwhile, vehicle owners have been complaining about problems related to getting the vehicle registration certificates delivered to their addresses. Anant Brahmankar of the   area said he had to wait for the certificate for almost a year. It finally arrived after continuous follow-up with the RTO, he said.Some citizens TOI spoke also complained that they did not got any message on mobile phones about the registration of their vehicles. 
 
 The RTO officials said that a problem related to residential address or wrong phone number occurred at the automobile dealer level. "During the next level of issuing registration certificates, all such issues will be addressed," they said. 
 
 
