Exams, especially board exams, can take a toll on a student’s mental health. Add to that improper diet and lack of sleep, and it can cause health hazards. In such a situation, yoga can help one calm down and overcome stress. 

 
 
 Stand like a tree, with arms on your side. Bend the right leg at the knee, and place it on the left leg as high up as possible. Now, raise both arms over the head and join them in namaskar pose, and then bring your hands to chest level. Close your eyes and hold the posture as long as you can, while breathing gently, but deeply, through the nostrils. Return to standing position and repeat the same with opposite leg.
 
 
 
 Surya Namaskar is proven to reduce stress. So start your day by doing just five cycles of this asana. This will take care of your entire body, and save your body from acidity, which is generally caused at exam time due to nervousness.
 
 
 
 This pose has an incredibly calming effect on the mind and body. Vajrasana is also a great for the digestive system, so if you have a tendency to carry your tension there, this one should help. For this, kneel, and then sit back on the heels. Maintain the length in the spine, and draw your crown towards the ceiling. Connect with your breath and notice how quickly the mind begins to slow and calm down. Stay for at least 10 breaths and feel yourself releasing tension with every exhalation.
 
 
 Sit in   with chin mudra and relax. Now, control your breath with pranayama. To start, close the right nostril with the right thumb, inhale slowly through the left nostril, remove your thumb from your right nostril. Now, use your ring and middle finger to close your left nostril. Exhale slowly and completely with the right nostril. Now, inhale through the right nostril and repeat the process vice-versa.
 
 
 
 Take a lighted candle or diya, and keep it approximately five feet away from you. Now concentrate on it till your eyes start watering and feel your tensions fading away. Apart from a candle, you can also chose to concentrate on your thumb, a black dot, a flower etc. However, never concentrate on a bulb.
 
 Statistics:
 
 
 
