LUCKNOW: For commuters, two new   emerged in the city in last year—from Telibagh crossing to Canal road near   on Sultanpur road and the other at Para Police station trisection on Bakshi Ka Talab highway. Black spots is term for areas in which accidents occur frequently because of faulty road engineering or blocks.

 Para police station trisection: Eight persons died and over over 12 were critically injured in more than 20 accidents on and near the trisection from January to December last year. People of these localities blame faulty road engineering, no signage, lack of  , and encroachments as the main cause which turned these areas into black spots.
 
 The location of the police station building, say locals, is faulty. It blocks the view of commuters coming from BKT highway going towards Alambagh. Also, the spot is the point of convergence of heavy traffic coming from from Rajajipuram, Gokul Gram Yojna and Alambagh. Locals said most of the accidents take place because there are no speed-breakers or signs warning about the convergence point. A roundabout on the trisection can also help in regulating the flow of the traffic. 
 
 Anil Kumar, an engineering student of a private university said, “Location of the Para police station should be changed and a roundabout should be constructed at the point.” Rajajipuram resident Prabash Singh said, “There is need to control speed and illuminate the area properly.”
 
 VIP road from Telibagh to NBFG: In this stretch, over two dozen major and minor accidents were reported from January to December 2016 in which 10 persons were killed and 30 were injured critically. Being a wide road people drive at a very high speed and since there are no speed-breakers a sudden turn towards Cantt road hinders movement of vehicles on VIP road. 
 
 Rajni Khand resident Himanshu Shukla said VIP road of Telibagh is very risky, as there is a turn towards Cantt road and vehicles from Ramabai Sthal come at a very high speed while no speed-breakers or road signs, makes it risky.
 
  What the police have to say: ASP (Traffic) Habibul Hasan admitted the above spots are dangerous because of faulty engineering and added that the definition of ‘Black Spot’ has been changed as per transport department. 
 
 Lucknow: For commuters, two new black spots emerged in the city in last year—from Telibagh crossing to Canal road near National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resource on Sultanpur road and the other at Para Police station trisection on Bakshi Ka Talab highway. Black spots is term for areas in which accidents occur frequently because of faulty road engineering or blocks.
 
 Para police station trisection
 
 Eight persons died and over over 12 were critically injured in more than 20 accidents on and near the trisection from January to December last year. People of these localities blame faulty road engineering, no signage, lack of speed-breakers, and encroachments as the main cause which turned these areas into black spots.
 
 The location of the police station building, say locals, is faulty. It blocks the view of commuters coming from BKT highway going towards Alambagh. Also, the spot is the point of convergence of heavy traffic coming from from Rajajipuram, Gokul Gram Yojna and Alambagh. Locals said most of the accidents take place because there are no speed-breakers or signs warning about the convergence point. A roundabout on the trisection can also help in regulating the flow of the traffic. 
 
 Anil Kumar, an engineering student of a private university said, “Location of the Para police station should be changed and a roundabout should be constructed at the point.” Rajajipuram resident Prabash Singh said, “There is need to control speed and illuminate the area properly.”
 
 VIP road from Telibagh to NBFG
 
 In this stretch, over two dozen major and minor accidents were reported from January to December 2016 in which 10 persons were killed and 30 were injured critically. Being a wide road people drive at a very high speed and since there are no speed-breakers a sudden turn towards Cantt road hinders movement of vehicles on VIP road. There are no road signs either.
 
 Rajni Khand resident Himanshu Shukla said VIP road of Telibagh is very risky, as there is a turn towards Cantt road and vehicles from Ramabai Sthal come at a very high speed while no speed-breakers or road signs, makes it risky.
 
 Pratibha Verma, had a providential escape when from the blind turn towards Cantt road a speeding vehicle hit her two-wheeler and she fell and got injured. 
 
 COPSPEAK 
 
 ASP (Traffic) Habibul Hasan admitted the above spots are dangerous because of faulty engineering and added that commuters must take better care. He added that the definition of ‘Black Spot’ has been changed as per transport department. It as an area in which 10 deaths occur in a single   or if the stretch has 10 accidents and is taken to be of at least 500 meters area. The spot is observed for a period of three years and then it falls under the category of ‘Black spots’.
 
 INFO
 
 * In 2016, 1436 accidents took place in Lucknow district in which 613 people died dead and 919 were injured.
 
 * There are 181 black spots in the city. Prominent include BBD University crossing, Janeshwar Mishra Park, Saharaganj flyover, and Ambedkar Park and Samta Mulak in Gomtinagar, Aashiana Crossing, Mawaiyya crossing, Golf Club Crossing, Butler Palace road, engineering college crossing, Nattha tri-section (Charbagh), Baradari-Parivartan Chowk route, IT Crossing, Kaiserbagh Crossing and Polytechnic Crossing.
 
 * 10 black spots added in 2015: Chhati mil road, Bithauli, Braj ki Rasoi in Madion, Kamta crossing in Chinhat, Shaheed path flyover Gomtinagar, Lekhraj crossing Indiranagar, Ring road Thakurganj, VIP road Eldeco in Alambagh on Link road, CMS School Manaknagar, Kasba Banthara in Banthara. 
 
 
