CHENNAI: A 20-year-old student from   died while undergoing treatment for complications related to   early on Friday.

 Prem Avinash from Andhra Pradesh, a third year dual degree student of mechanical engineering, was initially admitted to the Institute Hospital on campus on Tuesday afternoon with high fever and abdominal pain. "His platelet count had dropped from 1.25 lakh to 46,000," said Dr   M, the chief medical officer of the hospital. 
 
 He was taken to Apollo Hospitals on Greams Road later in the evening.
 
 A spokesperson from Apollo Hospitals said the patient was monitored by a critical care team for two days. "He had symptoms of dengue shock syndrome including fever and internal bleeding. He died of multiple organ failure around 1.30am," said a doctor who was part of the team. 
 
 Blood tests also confirmed he had a severe form of the viral fever. 
 
 Officials of the health department in the   said they were yet to receive lab reports from the hospital until late on Friday. "We have sent officials to investigate and sanitary inspectors are also stepping up anti-vector activities on campus," said city health officer Dr N Senthilnathan. He said, if confirmed, this would be the first dengue-related death in the city this season. 
 
 According to corporation records, the city has registered 110 cases of dengue since January. 
 
 Owing to the size of IIT-M campus, which is a sprawling 617 acres of woodland, the corporation has for the past four years deployed four ‘domestic breeding checkers’ exclusively for the institute to remove breeding sites of the Aedes mosquitoes — the vector that transmits the dengue virus. "It is challenging because of the thick vegetation," said a senior corporation official.
 
 Doctors at the Institute Hospital say they have seen a sharp increase in the number of students reporting with fever on the campus. "The test results of some confirmed dengue. A few required hospitalisation," said Dr Mahalakshmi. 
 
  The institute’s director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said at least 100 dengue cases are reported from the campus this time of the year. "Last year around 120 residents tested positive for dengue," he said.
 
