THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala University has once again started making appointments to teaching departments by  . This time, the varsity has obtained the concurrence of the state government for the violation.

 According to sources, the education department has granted permission to   for regularizing the 11 appointments it carried out in 2015. The government also agreed to accept the selection of seven more candidates by the university in 2015. Further, the government gave permission to carry out 25 more   of teaching faculties from the list of candidates shortlisted as per the notification issued prior to the amendment of the universities act.
 
 It was following widespread complaints regarding the reservation norms followed by universities in the state that the government made an amendment in the universities act, by way of promulgating an ordinance way back in 2013. The ordinance barred universities from calculating vacancies by considering each department as a single unit. Instead, the government directed the universities to pool all vacancies together and consider it as a single unit. It was said that the practice of considering departments as single units denied opportunity to majority of candidates belonging to reserved categories. Since the number of vacancies in departments would be one or two, the 50% reservation norm of the government was not practical.
 
 A syndicate sub-committee, in which the current devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran was also a member, had claimed in its report submitted to the former UDF government that the university did not violate the provisions in the ordinance promulgated by the state government in 2013.
 
 Since the ordinance did not claim any retrospective value, there was nothing wrong in university carrying out appointments to the posts that were notified before the promulgation of the ordinance, the report argued. The report has been accepted by the LDF government.
 
 “This is clear cut violation of the reservation norms. Ideally, the university should have cancelled the notifications issued prior to the ordinance date and all fresh appointments should have been carried out as per the norms in the ordinance,” said a syndicate member.
 
