KOLKATA: It was in December 2015 -almost six months after the city got a peek into the   horror house -that   police filed a charge sheet against   De. Fourteen months have passed in between, the charges have not yet been framed. But more than the grisly details and its incoherent protagonist, cops remember the case for volumes of forensic and psychological test evidences it involved. In the 220-odd pages of the chargesheet, 65 pages were the reports of Partha's psychological tests. “He was a sober man. We knew he had mental problems and Pavlov -where we admitted him initially - had warned us that he had to take his medicines properly and on time. I wonder if his caretaker Pradip Sarkar could take proper care of him,“ wondered an IPS officer who led the probe in May 2015.

 The sleuths claim that Partha looked repentant at times. “He was close to his sister Debjani in every sense of the term. But somewhere in between, he felt he had failed his father as well. Perhaps this is the reason why he commited suicide exactly the way his father did,“ said another investigating officer. The former OC of Shakespeare Sarani police station said Partha perhaps needed to mix more with people. “He led a secluded life. At night, even the caretaker was not there. I wonder if missing his medicines led to him taking such an extreme step.“
 
 Earlier, Partha was found to have been negligent in “intentionally omitting“ to give information of unnatural death to authorities and creating public nuisance. However, none of the four IPC sections slapped against him were serious in nature and entails punishment ranging between six and 12 months, depending on his conviction in a court.
 
 Sources maintained that not only had Partha hidden the death of his elder sister Debjani from his father and rest of the world after she starved to death, he had not even given information to authorities when his father Aurabindo De set himself on fire. Police tho ugh found no link to slap abetment to suicide charges against Partha.
 
 Police sources said that though the names of none of the others in the family are referred in the charge sheet, their roles are still being probed. A major chunk of the probe is based on the second diary of Partha De that was written between February last week and mid-May in 2015.
 
 “The writing is more structured, crisp and less convoluted. Also, Partha has dated every entry, which wasn't the case with his other two diaries. Sometimes, he uses a single sentence to describe a day's development, like his father Arabindo used to do. He wrote in red, blue and green sketch pens to depict his feelings and unlike his earlier writings, uses emoticons liberally here,“ an officer said.
 
