OTKAPURA: Seeking votes for the incumbent SAD-BJP alliance in Punjab on Suunday,   invoked the issue of   and asked people to elect a “strong government in the border state”.

 During his second rally in the state since polls were declared, the PM said, “The elections in Punjab are not to determine the future of the state alone but are equally important for the future of India. Punjab being situated on the border, the neighbouring country remains on lookout for opportunities to strike.”
 
  
  
 
  
 “Punjab is very important to safeguard the security of India as the state has to suffer through misadventure by the neighbouring country. We need a   in the state which could guarantee the security of its residents and the nation. This capability is only with Parkash Singh Badal.”
 
 In the past year, Pakistan-sponsored terrorists twice sneaked into Punjab and carried out terrorist attacks at Dinanagar and Pathankot airbase where men of Indian forces and citizens had to lose their lives.
 
 Attacking rival parties, Modi said, “The outsiders and those deeply indulged in living luxurious life cannot provide a stable and strong government in Punjab which could resist the misadventure of neighbours.”
 
 Earlier taking on AAP, Modi said, “AAP is indulging in politics of falsehood. AAP has even raised question mark on the sincerity of the Election Commission of India (ECI). AAP convener has said that ECI is dancing to my tunes. AAP has objections that why ECI has fixed a same and early date for elections in Punjab and Goa. Kejriwal thinks that ECI want that his party (AAP) to lose.” Modi said it is not because of ECI but due to sheer failure in running the Delhi government that loss of AAP was sure in Punjab and Goa.
 
 “Kejriwal had made many promises to the people of Delhi which he failed to fulfil. AAP had promised to put former Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit behind bars but this could not happen and now the Congress has even announced her as its chief ministerial candidate in UP,” the PM said.
 
 ‘Rahul destroyed future of Punjab youths’
 
 Attacking Congress vice-president Rahuil Gandhi, Modi said, “He (Rahul) had painted Punjab youths as indulging deeply in drugs. After his claims when the youths from Punjab used to go anywhere out of Punjab they were being seen as drug addicts. It damaged the future of youths.”
 
