Nagpur: “It is a misconception that the government runs the nation. It only creates a suitable environment and people are the ones who actually run the nation while workers and farmers play a significant role in the process,” said Dr Vikas Mahatme, MP, on Saturday.

 Mahatme was speaking at the 59th Workers’ Education Day celebrations, which is the foundation day of Dattopant Thengdi National Board for Workers Education and Development (DTNBWED), Nagpur. 
 
 “We have given less importance to skill development for decades which should be imparted in addition to knowledge. Also, we need to inculcate the attitude of getting things done. All these parameters should be thought of while educating workers,” said Mahatme. He stressed the importance of practicals and proper assessment.
 
 R Ganeshan, senior divisional personnel officer, South East Central Railway, Nagpur, briefed about the paradigm shift in the railway sector over a period of time. He talked about various aspects of workforce and changes to be introduced for its betterment. He motivated everyone to work hard and lead a healthy life.
 
 Mahesh Dhamecha, assistant commissioner of general administrative department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation, said that human resource plays an important role in any kind of production. He said, “Proper training of human resources is necessary. However, mental, physical and spiritual development should supersede any kind of training. The overall development of workers will result in good productivity and efficiency which will result in GDP growth and progress of the nation.”
 
 Amar Wazalwar, chairman, Regional Advisory Committee, DTNBWED, Ashok Bhutad, general secretary, BMS, Vidarbha region and Milind Tare, programme coordinator, Vanamati, were the guests of honour. They stressed the need for imparting education to workers which will bring a significant change in society. They also appreciated DTNBWED for its growth and consistency in work.
 
 The programme concluded with the presidential speech by RJ Wankhede, deputy director of education. KM Khatri, chief vigilance officer and regional director also graced the event. The programme started with flag hoisting, followed by recitation of Vande Mataram. Hindi Diwas was also celebrated during the function.
 
 (Reporting by Tanuja Ratnaparkhi)
 
 
