MANALI: With 10 of the 36 security cameras lying defunct, traffic being forced to run on two old bridges and roads sinking at many places, the safety and security of people here is at the mercy of God.

 Spending lakhs of rupees, the police here had installed 36 high-resolution   cameras in all streets and roads of the town two years back. The funds were provided by the   (TDC). Ten cameras at major places are out of order for nearly a year now but police have no funds to repair these. In the past the cameras have helped police in cracking many cases, nabbing suspicious persons and helped manage traffic. In a recent case a person had stabbed a shopkeeper here but the police could get no recording due to the non-functional CCTV cameras.
 
 “I had informed the district administration nearly a year back that 10 cameras are not working and need repairs,” Manali DSP   said. He added that he had demanded annual maintenance fund to repair the cameras but these have not been released so far. “Ten cameras are not working. They are spread over a vast area from Manali towards Palchan. The agency which repairs these is asking for money,” he stated. The file with request letter to release funds was reportedly with the deputy commissioner or additional deputy commissioner and an officer with tourism department confirmed that they had not received the file so far, he added.
 
 A bailey bridge on the Beas and another one near New Manali have become too old to take the burden of heavy traffic and can collapse any time. They are being made motorable by occasional maintenance. Many portions of the road here are sinking and the government has no permanent solution to the problem. A stretch near Aleo has been sinking for many years and the retaining wall here has developed cracks. Another stretch near   is sinking after a landslide. Boulders keep rolling on the highway at two places just before the town.
 
 Sub-divisional officer of the PWD P K Rana said that the road near Manali was being diverted and widened. “The process to seek permission from the forest department is under way. There is a possibility that the narrow and old bridge could be dismantled after we build the new road. The damaged portion of the road that is sinking has been given a coating of coal tar to stop water seepage and new plantation has been done to control soil erosion,” he said.
 
 Tall dry deodar trees, which can fall any time, are another threat in Manali. One such incident had claimed two lives recently in the town. Forest department said cutting these would be a tedious task.
 
