CUTTACK: When   swerved his free-kick into the Bengaluru FC goal, there was jubilation not just in the Shivajians dugout. At the other end of the field, skipper   was ecstatic. It is not often that one finds redemption in the football field. Wednesday was one such day for DSK Shivajians and their coach.

 After a not-so-memorable outing in the ILeague and suffering defeat at the hands of   in their first match of Federation Cup, DSK Shivajians played their match of the season and beat the Bengaluru side 2-0 at Barabati Stadium on Wednesday. Was it revenge for the 7-0 drubbing that they suffered at the hands of Bengaluru in I-League just two weeks back? According to coach Rogers, they just "wanted to make a statement". They did and that has changed the equation in Group B. It has opened up the group and made the match against Bagan a must-win for Albert Roca's boys. It was a tactical triumph for Rogers who played six U-22 academy players in the game. To guide these youngsters, he fielded Spaniard Barraso and skipper Paul, who he had chosen to rest in the tie against Bagan.
 
 Their back four made life difficult for Sunil Chhetri, Udanta Singh, Eugeson Lyngdoh, and later on for CK Vineeth and Alwyn George. Their midfield played so well that Bengaluru had to resort to playing more long balls. They even got a little more than a dozen set pieces to break the deadlock. But everything failed because Shivajians captain Paul either fisted away or grabbed everything.
 
 What was more surprising and debilitating for BFC was the fact that their skipper Chhetri was unable to move freely with young Jerry Mawihmingthanga as his marker.
 
 Bagan beat Lajong, stay top of group
 
 Mohun Bagan's perfect start to the 2017 Federation Cup football tournament continued as they overcame   Lajong 3-2 in an entertaining match at the Barabati Stadium here on Wednesday. Mohun Bagan put the game in a difficult position for Lajong with three first-half goals despite going behind early. But Lajong hit back with a goal in the second half although it wasn't enough in the end.
 
 Lajong took the lead in the third minute when Mohun Bagan defender Pritam Kotal put the ball in his own net while trying to clear a cross into the penalty box.
 
 However, striker Darryl   (5th minute) restored parity soon after before Haiti international Sony Norde (27th) and Japanese Yusa Katsumi (43rd) made the issue safe for Mohun Bagan. Yuta Kinowaki (80th) reduced the deficit for Lajong late in the game.
 
 With this win, Mohun Bagan stay atop Group B following Bengaluru FC's loss against DSK Shivajians earlier in the day.
 
