NAGPUR: To become a force to be reckoned with in the global sphere, India needs to emerge as a more powerful nation, said RSS chief   at a function to mark the 21st anniversary of Bhonsala Military School, urging students to work towards creating a stronger nation. The school, run by   (CHMS), encourages students to take up a career in the armed forces. IAF vice-chief Air Marshall SB Deo shared the dais with Bhagwat.

 To stress his point, Bhagwat cited the example of even Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore being snubbed by university students in Japan. The incident cited by him was, however, refuted later by a Tagore scholar whom TOI contacted.
 
 Bhagwat had said, “Gitanjali, the famous compilation of poems by Tagore, got him the Nobel Prize. Once during his visit to Japan, Tagore was supposed to address university students on his work. After all Gitanjali was a masterpiece, yet none of the students turned up. This left him worried. When he asked the vice-chancellor, Tagore was told that the students had decided not to attend the event. They felt there is nothing to learn from a person coming from an enslaved nation.”
 
 No matter how big an individual is, one does not gain enough respect if he comes from a weak country, concluded Bhagwat. He urged the students to work towards nation building.
 
 “India is poised to become a global power in the coming days. The nationalism nurtured in the country will lead to global well-being. The spirit of nationalism here does not mean creating a hegemony over other nations,” he said.
 
 However,  , a Tagore expert and retired professor from Vishwabharti University at Shantiniketan, said he has not come across any instance of opposition during the poet’s visit to Japan. Bhattacharya headed the Nippon Bhavan at the university, which had been set up with Japanese collaboration.
 
 “Tagore was always welcome in Japan, where he made friends with certain top intellectuals, whom he later invited to form the Nippon Bhavan. If at all there was any opposition, it was in China, where some Left extremists did not agree to his idea of spiritualism,” said Bhattacharya.
 
 Earlier, addressing the students through a video clip, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis put forth the example of Jawaharlal Nehru to stress the importance of discipline.
 
 “The country’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru said discipline was the blood stream of the nation. Even Swami Vivekananda stressed on the importance of discipline,” he said. Deo advised the students to avoid using social media like Facebook too much and strike to have a pure character.
 
 
