LUCKNOW/NEW DELHI: Uttar Pradesh under   has promised to go completely clean in 2018, a year ahead of a central deadline but   could derail PM Narendra Modi’s dream of   by 2019.
 
  Both states are “focus states” for the Swachh Bharat project as nearly 38% of open defecation in the country happens in these two states, a senior central government official told ET. But while UP is showing signs of a new resolve under a new government there, Nitish Kumar-ruled Bihar is performing the poorest on Swachh Bharat.
  
  Sample this: Bihar’s ODF coverage as on date is just 29%, up marginally from 22% on October 2, 2014 when the programme began with a 5-year deadline and is at half-way stage. “This is despite water and sanitation being part of the ‘Saat Nischay’ (Seven Promises) of CM Kumar,” the central government functionary said.
  
  
  
 
  UP stands at 48% ODF coverage but Adityanath at the recent   meet promised the PM that UP will go 100% ODF by October, 2018. “On CM’s directions, UP on April 18 also released `352 cr for Swachh Bharat without waiting for the first instalment for 2017-18 from Centre,” a top UP government official told ET in Lucknow.
  
  The Centre hopes the PM’s launch of Mahatma Gandhi’s Satyagraha centenary celebrations on April 10 would “inspire” Bihar to make efforts to convert its East and West Champaran Districts to ODF soon. None of Bihar’s districts have turned ODF yet, only 5% of its villages are ODF and Bihar’s performance in   is also worst among Ganga-states.
  
  “Bihar is lagging behind even J&K (which has 38% ODF coverage). The country overall stands at 64% ODF coverage but the Swachh Bharat target of October 2, 2019 could be missed if Bihar does not improve dramatically,” the functionary added.
  
  On the other hand, there is a neck-and-neck race between half-a-dozen states to achieve ODF status in the next 6 months. Uttrakhand could achieve it, followed by Gujarat which is reporting 95% ODF coverage. Haryana at 91%, West Bengal at 90% coverage, Arunachal Pradesh at 93% and Meghalaya at 91% are also close to becoming ODF. Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala have already gone ODF. 
