Lucknow: Besides the shocking suicide pact in which an HIV+ couple ended life in Madiaon, three women and a man hanged themselves at different places in the city on Monday. A veterinary doctor’s wife died under mysterious circumstances in Gomtinagar, while in another incident reported from Hasanganj, a woman identified as Mona hanged herself. One more suicide was reported from Naka where a girl hanged herself while in Madiaon a man committed suicide.

 Parents of the veterinary doctor’s wife who was found dead at her house in Gomtinagar accused foul play and cited   dispute. According to police, Swati (26) of Unnao was married to Dr Himanshu Dwivedi on May 1, 2015 and they lived at Saraswatipuram colony of Khargapur in Gomtinagar. Around 5am on Monday, Himanshu phoned his brother-in-law Nitish, who was in Delhi, informing him that Swati had met an accident and her condition was critical. Nitish called his friend Kaushal Kumar Sharma of Rajajipuram to reach the doctor’s house and started for Lucknow. He also called police control room and informed them about the incident.
 
 When Kaushal reached, he found the body put on the floor and covered with a shroud and informed Nitish. Meanwhile, police arrived. Himanshu told police he found Swati hanging from the grill of a door with a stole tied around her neck and when he brought the body down she was dead. Himanshu said Swati was suffering from depression but could not explain why.
 
 Swati’s father Omkar Mishra alleged that Himanshu and his family were harassing her for Rs 11 lakh and a car in dowry since marriage. “We suspect Himanshu and his family tortured her which drove her to suicide,” he alleged. Gomtinagar police station house officer M K Mishra said autopsy confirmed hanging as the cause of death. Even circumstantial evidences confirmed Swati was found hanging from the grill of the door. He said a case would be registered if the family submitted a written complaint. No formal complaint was lodged till the time of filing report.
 
 In another incident, a woman reportedly suffering from schizophrenia ended her life at her house in Daliganj locality under Hasanganj police station on Monday. Identified as Mona Gautam, the woman lived with her husband Sarvesh Gautam an AC mechanic. Sarvesh said Mona had been under treatment. “I was out for work and when I returned I found her hanging from ceiling with a stole tied around her neck,” he told to police. Police said no suicide note was recovered from the room.
 
 Also on Monday, a girl identified as Madhu Mishra (27) hanged self at her residence in Motinagar in Naka. Naka police station house officer J P Yadav said the girl was mentally unstable and undergoing treatment since birth. The father of the girl Daya Shankar Mishra works in a private company. No suicide note was recovered from the spot but doctor’s prescriptions for Madhu were found in the house, said police.
 
 A man identified as Neeraj Rawat of Dawoodnagar under Madiaon police station area was found hanging with his wife’s saree tied around his neck. It came to light that Neeraj was alone in the house while his wife Poonam and their children were living with her parents in Daliganj. When he did not come out of the house in the morning, Rawat’s brother Dheeraj reached the room to inquire about him and founding him hanging from the ceiling.
 
 
