NEW DELHI: A woman who claimed to be a   victim, and on whose compliant her dance teacher was arrested and put on trial, now faces prosecution for making a “mockery” of the judicial system by filing a false case.

 “I deem it proper to prosecute the prosecutrix for the criminal offence in the interest of justice and for making a mockery of the judicial system… precious time of the court has been wasted in conducting the trial of a false case,” observed additional sessions judge   in a recent judgment.
 
 The accused has suffered humiliation, distress and had been in judicial custody for the last three months, the judge observed.
 
 The woman had in the complaint accused the man of raping her on multiple occasions on the pretext of marriage. According to the case details, the woman had in 2015 joined the dance classes where the man was a teacher. They got close during the classes. But when her dance course could not be completed, the couple had an altercation. When the woman was examined by the prosecutor, she revealed that she had consented to sex with the man. And it was due to the altercation that she filed the rape complaint against the man. “The prosecutrix has not supported her case. She has deposed that the accused has not committed any offence against her and thus has not deposed anything incriminating against the accused,” the court noted.
 
 Apart from the complainant, other witnesses in the trial included doctors and police officials. But once the woman — the main witness — denied the charge of rape, the court did not see any purpose in examining those witnesses.
 
 From the woman’s testimony, the court concluded that she had made a false complaint of rape knowing fully well that he had not done what he was accused of. She knew very well, the court said, that he had been false implicated in a criminal case of serious nature. As a result of the woman’s complaint, the judge observed, the criminal machinery was set in motion and the man was charged with rape and remained in judicial custody for almost four months.
 
 Judge Jain said the woman gave false information to the police, forcing them to use their authority to cause harm to the accused’s reputation. “Precious time of the court has been wasted in a false case...I deem it to be a fit case for making a court complaint against the prosecutrix… for furnishing false information to the police,” the court held.
 
