AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat anti-terrorist squad (ATS) on Saturday night arrested two brothers— Waseem Ramodiya and Naeem Ramodiya— alleged to have links with Islamic State. The brothers belong to Rajkot. Sources in the Gujarat ATS claimed that they had been under surveillance for nearly two years. Senior ATS officials alleged that the Ramodiya brothers were planning a terror attack on the famous Goddess Chamunda temple at Chotila near Rajkot. 

 Naeem was arrested from Bhavnagar and his brother, Waseem, from Rajkot city in separate operations. This is the first instance of IS suspects being held in Gujarat. The ATS also recovered chemical powder used in firecrackers, batteries, IS literature and several audio clips. Audio clips recovered from the brothers indicated that they were in touch with IS ‘handlers’ in Iraq and Syria through social media platforms. 
 
 Both Waseem and Naeem have computer science degrees. While Waseem has an MCA degree, his brother Naeem completed BCA recently. Both were in the scrap business in Rajkot and Bhavnagar. ATS officials said that the Ramodiya family was in a state of shock. 
 
 ATS SP Himanshu Shukla alleged that Waseem and Naeem were in touch with IS suspect Mufti Abdus Sami Qasmi of Rampur in UP. Qasmi was arrested by the National Investigation Agency from Hardoi in February last year. “We have phone call records showing Mufti Qasmi was in touch with Waseem,” Shukla said. 
 
 Qasmi had visited Gujarat twice to deliver sermons at Ahmedabad and Bharuch. There is a YouTube video of Qasmi addressing a meeting at Kalupur tower on May 2, 2012. ATS officials suspect that the Ramodiya brothers may be behind the crude bombs recovered in Rajkot recently. “We are questioning them. Both will be produced in court on Monday. 
 
 Meanwhile, ATS officials recovered audio call records from Waseem’s cellphone where he is heard talking to his wife Shehjeen. “In one audio clip, Shehjeen is heard encouraging Waseem not to abandon his task. Hence, Shehjeen is also on our radar,” said an ATS official.
 
