NEW DELHI: The Modi government had an easy last week in the  , with the top court going easy on the government on a host of public interest litigations (PILs) on issues such as the whistle-blowers’ bill, genetically-modified food, and one seeking a probe into alleged payoffs to politicians of all hues.
 
  This breathing space came after months of testy ties between the executive and judiciary in which the top court demanded to know why the government wasn’t giving effect to crucial laws such as the   which were intended to ensure greater accountability in public life. The Lokpal Act received presidential assent in January 2014, but is yet to be brought into force.
  
  The Modi government has claimed that it needed to iron out some bottlenecks to give more teeth to the law, but senior advocate Shanti Bhushan claimed that this was just a pretext to stall the Lokpal from being brought in.
  
  A top court bench, led by former Chief Justice TS Thakur, had commented adversely on the government’s failure to set up the proposed anti-corruption ombudsman, a first in the country.
  
  “You have taken two and a half months to bring in the amendments. Will you take the rest of your term to pass them,” former CJI Thakur had demanded to know, much to the government’s embarrassment.
  
  A bench, under the new Chief Justice of India,  , last week went easy on the government on another such law intended to protect whistle-blowers who bring to light major scams.
  
  Activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan claims that the new law has been pending for long leaving a legal vacuum which affords some modicum of protection to whistle-blowers. He accused the government of dragging its feet on passing its proposed amendments which will dilute the law.
  
  But CJI Khehar would not tolerate any intervention over a matter pending before Parliament. “We cannot hold Parliament’s hands,” he observed. Instead, he let the government off after an assurance held out by Solicitor General Ranjit Kumar that the bill would brought up during the budget session.
  
  CJI Khehar also refused to hold the government accountable for its failure to set up a mechanism to deal with complaints about content on the TV and radio. Instead, he directed the government to set up a mechanism to deal with it as mandated.
  
  Coming a day after another bench dismissed a probe into alleged payoffs to politicians of all hues, legal sources dubbed it as a sign of the tense ties between the judiciary and the executive easing. Others said it was too early to gauge the signs and the real test would be whether the two sides are able to break a logjam over judicial appointments.
  
  Ties had become strained over the Narendra Modi government’s failure to appoint High Court judges recommended by the top court collegium. The government had claimed that it had cleared more appointments than the erstwhile UPA government. Judicial sources had, however, charged the government of deliberately holding back some transfers and appointments. That will be the test, a source said.
  
  The Modi government has sent back, in an unprecedented move, at least 13 names twice recommended by the collegium. If the collegium under CJI Khehar agrees to overturn its recommendations on these names, it would effectively give the executive the final say over such appointments, a sore point with the Modi government after the court struck down its NJAC Act.
