The budget attempts to mitigate the effects of demonetisation by consciously spending on the  , which will act as a stimulus to state's economy.

 For this, the government will be starting big capital projects like roads and bridges ­ Rs 5,628 crore will be spent on 182 roads and Rs 2,557 crore will be spent on 69 bridges or overbridges.
 
 
 
 
 “Economic principle-wise, what finance minister does is sound,“ commented D Narayana, director, Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation. “John Maynard Keynes had said that whenever the effective demand is low, the fiscal policy has to play a role to create demand. While the Union budget failed to do that, the Kerala finance minister is doing that. Kerala's economy has suffered because of demonetisation, and that was revealed in the state planning board's committee to study the impact of demonetisation on the state economy,“ he added.
 
 State planning board's committee had noted that cash transactions being predominant in the local economy, demonetisation had affected Kerala. Major contributors to the state's economy are in the informal or unorganized sector, where cash transactions dominate, also affected the state's economy.
 
 “The immediate consequence has been a severe curtailment of effective demand because people have little or no cash. As a result, transactions in many markets have been reduced or brought to a halt, casual and temporary workers paid in cash have either experienced a fall in employment or have been forced to accept deferred payments, persons with limited access to banking services have not been able to meet their daily needs, farmers who have just harvested their crop have not been able to sell all of it and buy seeds and inputs for the next crop, many among India's sick have not been able to pay for medical services, and persons in need of cash for occasions such as weddings or other events were unable to draw it from their accounts,“ the committee had observed. Now, the LDF government is also kickstarting an infrastructure development project worth Rs 25,000 crore using funds raised through Kerala Infrastructure and Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). According to the finance minister T M  , the fund will be of the size Rs 11,000 crore towards the end of the current fiscal, with total work orders of Rs 15,000 crore.
 
 Apart from these work orders, another batch of construction works worth Rs 20,000 crore are being announced from KIIFB during 2017-18, Isaac had said in his speech.
 
 One of the projects is a Rs 6,500-crore coastal highway through the coastal area, which has the maximum density of population in the state. There is also another project, a hill highway, at a cost of Rs 3,500 crore.
 
 T K Deepaprasad “Large infrastructure projects are expected to create jobs locally and a part of the money will be trickled down into the local economy,“ said Nirmala Pad manabhan, head of the department of economics, St Teresa's College. “Also, the creation of an easy transportation facility will spur further economic activity in the locality, which includes tourism, in Kerala's case.
 
 Cheap and easy transportation always supported the growth of the local econo my,“ she added.
 
 There are other major infrastructure projects too ­ Rs 1,696 crore is being spent on the drinking water projects and Rs 1,000 crore is spent for upgrading the schools to centres of excellence.
 
 “Projects worth Rs 1,130 crore for Malabar Cancer Centre, Kochi Cancer Centre, Ernakulam  , Kochi Medical College, Kannur District Hospital, Punalur Taluk Hospital and cathlabs. A master plan for Thiruvananthapuram Medical College has been submitted,“ Isaac said in his speech.
 
 While the state government has grand plans to pump in money into the local economy by developing its infrastructure, there are people who wonder how the state will be able to bear the repayment costs. Padmanabhan is quite sceptical of the ability of the state government to repay the loans it is going to raise through the KIIFB. “I'm quite worried about how the state will pay back the money it had borrowed for developing the social sector,“ she said. Free medicines for patients with lifestyle diseases, maintenance drugs at 10% of the present price for organ transplant patients, complete eradication of leprosy and elephantiasis and patient friendly government hospitals are some of the key focus areas in the state budget in which health sector cornered the lion's share.
 
 The total budget allocation for medical, public health and family welfare in 2017-18 is Rs 7,515 crore, up from Rs 6,323 crore allocated last year. While the outlay for health services is Rs 724 crore, Rs 470 crore has been allocated for medical education. While Rs 49 crore has been earmarked for ayurveda, homoeopathy got Rs 31 crore.
 
 But it should be seen how these goals will be achieved amid financial constraints.“Availability of free medicines is a major concern. Also, with most organ transplants happening at private hospitals, how will the government ensure that the patients avail discounted medicines? Though the health sector has got fair allocation, we will have to wait and see how effectively it will be used,“ said Indian Medical Association Kerala chapter president Dr V G Pradeep Kumar. With incurable diseases, including lifestyle diseases, deeply influencing Malayalis, finance minister T M Thomas Isaac announced free medicines for patients with diabetics, blood pressure and cholesterol through PHCs and subcentres. To control infectious and lifestyle diseases, the medicos will reach the patient's house to provide medical care.
 
 Giving in to the demands of the transplant experts that organ transplant patients need government aid, the minister said, “Those who undergo organ transplant need to have life-long medication. The drug companies charge exorbitant prices for these medicines.These medicines will be supplied at 10% of its present price“. The   will manufacture these medicines.
 
 Under the universal healthcare movement, Aardram Mission, the finance minister aims to make government hospitals more patient-friendly and quality oriented. To address second generation issues in the health sector, a comprehensive health data of citizens will be prepared and updated periodically .
 
 The minister announced an annual award in the name of former Muhamma panchayat president, who had started palliative care network at panchayat-level, for the best innovative palliative care unit.
 
 Recognising that free comprehensive health care scheme can be financially sustained only if low-cost expert medical facilities are created at secondary and tertiary levels, the government has sanctioned Rs 2,000 crore for the district taluk and general hospitals. An amount of Rs 350 crore has been allocated for Karunya benevolent fund. Approximately Rs 1,000 crore will be distributed to patients as health assistance.
 
