KOHIMA: Thirteen people, including three women and also some   were arrested by  , the   for various crimes.

 ACP and PRO Dimapur Police, Shouka Kakheto said the arrests were made from various police station areas under the Commissionerate of Police, Dimapur since May 2 last till yesterday.
 
 He revealed that acting on information of unknown persons trying to break open an ATM booth in two-and-half mile, Dimapur yesterday, a police team rushed to the spot and found the teller machine damaged while miscreants had escaped.
 
 However, search of the area led to the arrest of four miscreants from the Darogapathar village area.
 
 The ACP Dimapur said that on May 8, the   (AET) under   arrested two persons on charges of extortion while they were distributing tax slips of the Naga Nationalist Council (NA) to various garage owners.
 
 On May 5, Dimapur Police arrested two persons from New Market area after they were found collecting money from the vendors.
 
 The AET also arrested three persons including two ladies on charges of extortion. The accused persons reportedly belonging to a faction of NSCN were collecting money from fruit vendors at New Market area.
 
 Earlier, on May 2 last, Dimapur Police arrested two persons in connection with a case of abduction for ransom that occurred on April 28 last.
 
 The ACP revealed that East Police Station Dimapur received information regarding a Haryana registered Truck being hijacked by miscreants and the driver abducted for ransom.
 
 Police said that the owner of the truck based in Haryana received the ransom demand of Rs 10 lakh for release of the truck and the driver.
 
 Acting on the information, Dimapur Police recovered the truck from 7th Mile area and also rescued the driver from Tenyiphe-A village the same day.
 
 Police arrested one of the accused hailing from Senapati in Manipur on May 2 while the prime accused, a woman identified as Nihara aka Hasina Begum of Hawraghat village, Nagaon district in Assam was arrested the next day.
 
 More people are found to be involved in the crime and efforts to arrest them is underway, the ACP added. 
 
 
