When Dev’s   and Jeet’s Boss 2 clashed this Eid, sitting in Mumbai, one man was praying for the success of both. No wonder,  , the composer of the two big-ticket ventures, is the flavour of the season. In Kolkata for a week, he tells us about the insecurities that have crept into the music scene, the relationship he shares with Bengal’s heroes and why competition holds no meaning for him. Excerpts:

 
 
 I am very poor in maths; it has always been like that. I only find out if the audience has liked or rejected a song. I don’t have a fair idea about box-office collections. I forayed into   in 2004 and share a rapport with hall-owners since then. They would tell me jokingly, ‘People are breaking chairs while dancing to your songs. You must pay for the damage’. Till 2009, I would ask them how the sales were. They used to tell me if the rains had put a spanner on the sales or if there was an upswing — that was it. Beyond that, I never probed. Be it Jeet,   or the other producers — I never asked for collection reports. Chaamp, I heard, is running well in plexes. And Boss 2 is going great guns in single screens. I am yet to watch the two films.
 
 
 
 On many occasions, two of my films have released on the same day. I am in the creative field and it is not possible to always gauge which song is good and what can be better. Composers create songs based on situations. Ultimately, what matters is the end product — how the actors are emoting, the picturisation. I am usually all nerves before a music release. I feel I am debuting with each film. So, yes, there’s pressure.
 
 
 No one complained to me about the song. It had little to do with the music/lyrics/tune, but the way the song was perhaps picturised. I got good feedback. Baba Yadav lost his mother during that time and I didn’t get a chance to interact with him. So, when Jeet requested me to change the lyrics, I made Nakash Aziz and Jonita Gandhi sing Yaara meherbaan. 
 
 
 Dev is very hard-working. Chaamp is his debut production and he went all out to promote the film. He has handled every department well, and not just about music. Every artiste told me how fulfilling it was to work with Dev. I was unwell during the making of Chaamp. Dev, who visited me, said, ‘Jeetda, I know one song is left. We will wait till you get better’. Bumbada (Prosenjit) asked Sudeshnadi and Ranada (Abhijit) to give me more time to complete the two songs that were left. Not many do that in today’s day and age! I had already completed Jeet’s film and there were no issues with Boss 2. Jeet is very organised and knows what he wants. We are good friends and go back a long way. While working with them, I realised both Dev and Jeet have grown as producers. Bumbada, on the other hand, is very encouraging and wants more from me. They had different demands — Jeet wanted commercial songs, Dev wanted me to cater to the plex crowd and Bumbada wanted a classic sound. He basically taught me to break away from the mould. There was a time when I would deliver a hit dance number with every film. One day, Bumbada called me to say, ‘Make something so different that no one understands it’s Jeet Gannguli’. He was producing Bapi Bari Jaa. Rashid Khan rendered a song with Arpita and the album was appreciated by all. Curiously, I was offered Hansal Mehta’s Citylights. Mukheshji (Bhatt) introduced me to the director and said, ‘Jeet has done   2 and Blood Money, but he can do this film’. Some of my best songs were created for Citylights. When I started delivering dance numbers, people said I was good with romantic songs. When I did romantic songs, they said my dance numbers were missed. In my free time, I laugh over this.
 
 
 
 I was very upset. I don’t like the trend of roping in multiple composers for a film. Will five directors agree to work on one movie? RD Burman, SD Burman, Shankar-Jaikishan, Madan Mohan, OP Nayyar — the greats used to shoulder complete albums. Now producers ask, ‘Kya hai aap ke bank mein?’ Composers deliver a song even before he has heard the script. This trend started in Mumbai. A composer, who makes one song, can also produce multiple numbers. They have to run their homes so they don’t complain, but no one supports this trend. About Dev, I had told him that since I had composed four songs, I would like to complete the album. Every time a director has approached me to do a special song, I have turned down the offer. I have always felt that it comes out of insecurity. If the makers are insecure, where will the composers go? Dev is my brother and I scored for his first film, I Love You. I had asked him not to include another song. I think I deserved that after having worked in the industry for so long. He was very kiddish and wanted a song to promote the film. The song was retained in the album, not in the film. I shared the same opinion when Dev included Raftaar’s song. I even asked him to complete the album with Anupam/Raftaar. I was deeply hurt.
 
 
 
 A composer, who is given a full album, will readily do the background score. Having said that, I hate the trend of too many voices dubbing for one song. A singer puts in his 100% for a song and then, his voice is unceremoniously replaced by another. Also, composers involve too many programmers. The trend has not started in Bengal because of budget constraints. Insecurity in the music industry is on the rise.
 
 
 
 Since I started out, I have been working for Bengali films sitting in Mumbai. Many suggested that I return to Kolkata, but I didn’t. There was a time when I would come here for a day, record a song and return by the morning flight the following day. I never refused a Kolkata producer and would do six-seven Bengali films a year. I believe that music has no language. Mukeshji called me after hearing my Bengali songs. When I was doing Love Express, I also had an RGV film. I turned it down as I had to stay in Kolkata. Among composers, Sudhin Dasgupta remains my favourite. I still watch Basanta Bilaap; his Legechhe legechhe agun, a mix of blues and jazz, is very close to my heart. His brother, Parimal Dasgupta, used to arrange the music. My father worked with them and I have tremendous respect for the brothers. I also love listening to RD Burman, Salil Chowdhury and am clued into the work of the new composers. I am very fond of Prabuddha Banerjee and Shantanu Moitra. I sincerely hope that they work more. I often ask Prabuddhada about this, though getting Shantanu, who is travelling all the time, is difficult.
 
 
 
 I want to work in regional languages — be it Odia, Tamil, Telugu or Marathi. My focus is not just Bengal or Mumbai.
 
 
 
 Whenever we meet, we are extremely cordial. We are both in a happy space. We met at Netaji Indoor Stadium right after the release of Aashiqui 2 when he hugged me and said he loved the score. When I next met him, I complimented him on his Barfi! In Mumbai, even family members don’t meet each other too often. So, I can’t be complaining about not meeting Pritam too often.
 
 
