MARGAO/CANACONA: In a rude reminder of the 2008  , a body of a foreign national was found under mysterious circumstances, in a nude state, at an isolated spot at Adnem, Devabag, Canacona on Tuesday morning.
 
  Canacona police, who identified the body as that of 28-year-old Irish national  , have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
  
  DySP Sammy Tavares, who was at the site, told reporters that the body has been sent to the   (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim to ascertain whether the woman was raped before being killed.
  
  Police sources informed that a local, Prashant Komarpant, noticed the body while he was on his way to the fields, at a woody spot some 300m from a kaccha road leading to some fields, and alerted the cops.
  
  “Considering the state in which the body was found, and the injuries visible on her face, we concluded that that it was a case of murder,” Canacona PI Filomeno Costa told TOI.
  
  Police sources said that the deceased was staying at Arambol and had come down to Palolem beach on Monday. They suspect she was done to death the same night.
  
  A sniffer dog squad, besides forensic and finger print experts were pressed into service. Some clues – empty beer cans, chip packets and bottle shards - have been collected, but police are yet to obtain any specific leads. While the police found the deceased’s clothes, they are yet to locate the murder weapon.
  
  “We are investigating all angles,” Costa said.
  
  Unconfirmed reports said that the deceased was seen at some shacks at the nearby Patnem beach along with “friends” late Monday evening. Costa told TOI that they are verifying the same and are studying the CCTV footage of all the shacks the victim visited on the ill-fated night.
  
  So far the police has interrogated six suspects. The search for the victim’s passport and belongings is on.
  
  The incident has brought back memories of the alleged murder of a British teenager, Scarlett Keeling, at a shack in Anjuna in 2008, after being allegedly drugged and raped.
