JALPAIGURI: Chief minister  , her eyes fixed firmly on the forthcoming civic polls in north Bengal, on Monday announced that the state will form a  , on the lines of the   (TAC).

 In accordance with the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution, TAC has been established in states with scheduled areas.
 
 “This council will be formed to go deeper into the necessities of people belonging to SC communities and execute works and expedite those for their development,“ Banerjee said in Jalpaiguri. She reached Jalpaiguri on Monday as part of a five-day tour. At the PWD inspection bungalow, she held ameeting with the TAC, which she chairs, and cleared all pending proposals.
 
 “This was a routine meeting as per the guideline of the Indian Constitution. We have decided to form an   for the benefit of SCs.This will be done at the earliest,“ she told reporters. The CM said the government was placing special emphasis for the recognition of local languages, including the Rajbanshi language, so that people from these communities, especially students, could study in their own language. “ All languages, including Rajbanshi, will be given equal importance while executing works,“ she said.
 
 Prior to the assembly polls, Banerjee said in a meeting that she would try to have the Rajbanshi language recognized.On Monday , she explained why one development board after the other was being formed in the Darjeeling Hills. “In the Hills, there is the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and we cannot work freely there. Therefore, I came up with the concept on making development boards in the Hills so that we could work for the Hills people,“ she said.
 
 On Tuesday , the chief minister is scheduled to hold an administrative meeting at  , following which she will attend a programme in the town, where she may address the public.
 
 
 
 
 The state announced district magistrates for the two new districts it has decided to create -Asansol-Durgapur and Jhargram. IAS officer Shashank Sethi will be the DM of the former district, to be formed on April 7; R Arjun, also an IAS officer, will be the new DM of Jhargram, to be formed on April 4. Sethi is currently joint secretary to the chief minister.
 
