LUCKNOW: The   for   elections, released here on Saturday, seems to have an echo of a number of manifesto promises made and schemes launched by UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and issues raised by Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi.

 If a key point of the Samajwadi Party manifesto in 2012 was   of free   among students—a scheme which became popular after Akhilesh Yadav became the chief minister—the   manifesto promised free laptops for college-going students. BJP, however, promised to provide 1GB   free for one year along with the laptop.
 
 BJP national president Amit Shah, who released the manifesto, however, said that while the laptops were distributed among a particular caste by the Akhilesh government, the BJP would distribute laptops among everyone, irrespective of caste and religion and free internet would be an added benefit. 
 
 Other projects that found a place in the BJP manifesto include the Lucknow and Noida Metros, pension for widows and free education for girls. While the SP government has been giving Rs 300 per month for widows between the age of 18 and 60, the BJP manifesto promises to provide Rs 1,000 per month to them without any age limit.
 
 Sources, however, said that there was no age limit in widow pension declared by the UP government and that increase of all pensions to Rs 1,000 per month had already been announced.
 
 The BJP manifesto promises free education to all girls until graduation under Ahilyabai Kanya Nishulk Shiksha Yojna, which has shades of SP government’s Kanya Dhan Vidya Yojna.
 
 While UP chief minister flagged off the trial run of the Lucknow Metro last year, the BJP manifesto said that the Metro work would be expanded in Lucknow and Noida.
 
 “It would not be cosmetic and not limited to photo opportunities as had been the case with Lucknow Metro,” said Shah, attacking chief minister Akhilesh Yadav for inaugurating the Metro in a hurried manner. The manifesto also promises UP-100, a police helpline number, and 108 ambulance services, which the SP government has already implemented.
 
 The manifesto also mentions loan waiver for farmers, an issue raised by Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and also during his ‘khat sabha’ in UP last year. Interestingly, Rahul had demanded waiver of loans to farmers after collecting the ‘kisan patra’ from thousands of farmers in the state.
 
 The BJP in its manifesto announced that it would waive loans to small and marginalised farmers. Similarly, farmers would get loan on 0% interest once it comes to power.
 
 Free Wi-Fi promised in all colleges and universities in the BJP manifesto was already a part of the SP manifesto released earlier this week.
 
 Similarly, the BJP manifesto’s promise of free school uniform, books and bags, has already been implemented by the SP government, said SP leaders.
 
 “In the same way, honour for national and international players as promised in BJP manifesto has already been done by the state government. The state government is also providing pension to players who are Arjuna and Padma awardees,” said an SP leader.
 
 While the BJP manifesto promises a permanent exhibition and export centre, the SP government has already established Awadh Shilp Gram, SP leaders said.
 
 Other than this, the BJP manifesto promises constitution of three women battalions for safety and security of women and constitution of anti-Romeo squad to man areas near girls’ colleges. The manifesto also promises three women police stations in each district and resolution of all problems related to shiksha mitras in three months after coming to power.
 
