COIMBATORE: City becomes a safer place this year with crime rate coming down by nearly 5 percent in comparison to 2015. As per the records of the  , this year cases under almost all the crime heads except murder have come down considerably. Only murder cases have seen a rise with 25 being reported in 2016 in comparison to 21 in 2015. Of these 25 cases, two cases have not been solved as well.

 Cases under crime heads such as robbery, burglary, theft and snatching have reduced. In 2015, 134 burglary cases were reported. In 2016, only 121 cases were reported. Also snatching cases that were highest in 2015 with 97 cases reported reduced to 68 in 2016.
 
 Officials attributed the reduction in the crime rate to better policing and to bring in the policy of visible policing. "We ensured that a special team was formed for each crime head that were responsible to detect and ensure better policing for each of those crime head.
 
 Special teams for snatching, robbery, accidents and other such cases were also formed. Apart from this, beat policing was also introduced. Every police officer including the sub-inspectors and constables were entrusted with a beat which was an area or a few roads which they were responsible for. They held meetings with the residents, put up flex boards with police phone numbers and patrolled in the area regularly," said deputy commissioner (law and order), S Lakshmi.
 
 Police officers added that detecting several chain snatching cases was also a reason for the reduction in cases. "We ensured there was visible policing with police officials patrolling through day and night. Also, inspectors and sub-inspectors were given targets to achieve under all crime heads, which resulted in increased vehicle checks," said a police officer. City police commissioner, A Amalraj also acknowledged that the crime rate in the city had come down considerably.
 
 But two other distinct points in the crime records were the recovery rate and the crime detection rate coming down. The detection rate was lower than 2015 because of the two unsolved murder cases. One of them was the murder case of an astrologer who was killed in March 2016 and bodies of a mother, daughter duo was found in their home located near HDFC bank on Avinashi road in February 2016. Another point was the property recovery rate coming down by 6 percent. It was 83 percent in 2015. Police officials did not want to comment on this, stating that they will ensure these rates are also increased in 2017.
 
