MUMBAI: A second   was registered by police after another victims filed a complaint of   against The Viral Fever ( )   Arunabh Kumar in a span of 24 hours. 

 A 27-year-old writer-director had lodged a complaint with MIDC police station on Wednesday, alleging that he inappropriately touched her and even made gestures in 2016 during shooting of a web series.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (D N Nagar division) Arun Chavan said in the second case, the victim worked with Kumar in 2014 and she claimed he had misbehaved with her. A case under sections 354 (A) (sexual harassment of the nature of unwelcome physical contact and advances or a demand or request for sexual favours) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was filed with the Versova police,” said Chavan. 
 
 Police will record statements of former and current employees of the web entertainment channel before issuing summons to Kumar.
 
 Allegations against Kumar emerged when a woman blogged earlier this month, alleging sexual harassment in 2014-16. “The first victim who lodged a complaint said she got the courage after the anonymous blog surfaced recently alleging sexual harassment while working for the TVF CEO,” said deputy commissioner of police (zone X) Vinayak Deshmukh. “The process will be followed in collecting evidence, recording statements and we hope more victims come forward to make the case watertight,” said a police officer. A case under sections 354 (A) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Kumar in the first case.
 
 TVF had denied all allegations. Its media communication executive did not answer TOI’s repeated calls, or reply to text messages and emails. Police said a person, under the name of ‘Indian Fowler’, had blogged against Kumar.
 
 In her post, shared widely on social media, she stated, “Right from Pitchers to Tripling, I was molested. Be it in parties, where Kumar would try to lift me or would try and fall on me, pretending he is drunk.”
 
