PUNE: The future of nearly 3,000 students studying in Sinhgad Technical Education Society’s   campus is secure and they can be assured of uninterrupted classes, its top management has said, after   published a notice for auction/sale of the institute’s campus. 

 The school, hostel, engineering college buildings, open land and the commerce college building on   and other properties belonging to the society are up for sale for non-payment of loan dues amounting to Rs 58.04 crore, the bank’s notification published in a local daily towards the end of January said.
 
 When students were approached on Monday at the Kondhwa campus, most seemed unaware about the development while the staff also feigned ignorance about the development. 
 
 Managing director of   Maruti Navale said, 
 
 “The institute had filed a petition against the bank and the hearing is scheduled on February 27. Even so, the bank issued this notice creating an impression that we were defaulters. We have one payment of around Rs 25 crore to be made to the bank which we have requested them to reschedule as we were facing a cash crunch.”
 
 Navale said the bank cannot auction the premises and students should also be reassured of the fact. “The matter is still in court and will come up for hearing soon. I am hopeful about the court not allowing the bank to take up auctioning of the premises,” he added. 
 
 The bank’s notice said, “Dues amounting to Rs 58.04 crore were pending since September 9, 2015 and the responses to the auction would be opened on February 28 at 11.30am at the bank's corporate office.”
 
 Most students and staff that the TOI spoke to on the campus were completely unaware of the developments surrounding the three properties listed for auction by the bank.
 
 "This is the first time I have heard that our college building is being auctioned. No one from the teachers or staff informed us of anything about shifting or anything related," Asifa, one of the students at the campus, said.
 
 Another student said he had heard through social media, but has not received any confirmation from the management.
 
 “I saw the bank notice on a WhatsApp group that some buildings in our campus will be auctioned by a bank for defaulting on loan repayment. But we have not heard any word from the management about this,” commerce student Deepak S said.
 
 Members of the staff also expressed shock at the news. They said they had not been notified of any development. “None of our bosses have said anything to us,” a security personnel who was manning the campus said.
 
