CHENNAI: Toeing the NDA government’s line on cattle slaughter, the ruling AIADMK   announced in the state assembly that its animal husbandry department will set aside Rs 6 crore towards preventing sale of two lakh cows that are sterile. Farmers with such cows usually sell them for slaughter. Animal husbandry minister P   said this scheme was aimed at preventing farmers from selling cows for slaughter. 

 Under the plan for dryland cattle, sterile cow breeds will be provided medication and mineral mixture after finding out reasons for their infertility. This would prevent sale of cow breeds with high yield capacity and when such cattle begin giving milk yield, it will help farmers economically, the minister said.
 
 “Cross-bred cows in rain-fed areas that are infertile will be prevented from being sold for slaughter. The government will allocate Rs 6 crore and find out what nutrients and minerals the soil lack and cows in such areas will be given medication and mineral mixture to save them from  ,” said Reddy.
 
 “Instead of selling the cows, farmers can increase their income as they will start yielding milk,” said the minister. “We will conduct camps to identify cows which are sterile and check the soil in the area to find out what nutrients are deficient,” a senior government veterinarian, seeking anonymity, told TOI. 
 
 But some observers say this could well be a move on the part of the government to go along with the Centre on the  . On June 20, DMK, Congress, IUML and   allies raised the issue in the assembly and demanded that the government pass a resolution against the ban. But chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the case was in the Supreme Court and Madras high court and the government could not pass any resolution. 
 
 “This is nothing but taking the Centre’s side. Our chief minister is the only one who has not openly opposed the ban and also refused to bring in a resolution in the assembly,” said a senior DMK leader, not willing to be quoted. 
 
 On the free distribution of milch cows and goat schemes in Tamil Nadu, the minister said on account of the severe drought situation in the state, the schemes have been temporarily stopped with effect from December 2016 and will be resumed after receipt of  
 
