
 
  Two state government-run hospitals – Cama & Albless and Gokuldas Tejpal (GT) – have decided to provide 250 beds in their buildings to overburdened   to treat its cancer patients.
  
  While the additional beds – Cama will provide 100, GT will provide 150 – will obviously ease pressure on Tata Memorial which sees over 67,000 new cases registered every year and over 450,000 follow-ups, both Cama and GT will also be able to put their underutilised capacity to constructive use.
  
  Cama has 485 beds, but at any given point not more than 300 are occupied. GT’s average occupancy is also low – 300 for its 584 beds.
  
  The upkeep of the GT-Cama extension of Tata Memorial Hospital will be funded by contributions from the state and Central governments. In the first phase, the Central government will spend Rs 45 crore, while the state government will contribute Rs 30 crore. In the first phase, Tata Memorial will take control of only 100 beds in the two buildings.
  
  Cama and GT, both located near   in  , share a common rear boundary wall. Eventually, the two buildings will be connected with a tube bridge to create a seamless cancer treatment facility.
  
  Parel’s Tata Memorial Center is the only cancer institute in the country. It is currently hampered by poor capacity with only 700 beds. The hospital has a research and treatment center in Navi Mumbai, and the Union government recently sanctioned Rs 2,000 crore to set up similar 250-bed treatment centers in Varanasi, Chandigarh, Guwahati, and Visakhapatnam.
  
  Tata Memorial provides free or subsidised treatment in over 60 per cent of the cases. But its tremendous workload invariably leads to a long waitlist.
  
  Dr Tatyarao Lahane, dean of the Sir JJ Hospital, who also looks after Cama, GT and St George’s hospitals, said it’s a win-win situation for all. “Tata Memorial gets the extra beds it so badly needs, while Cama and GT get to use their extra capacity,” he said.
  
  While Tata Memorial will post its doctors at the Cama-GT facility, the SoBo hospitals will provide beds, supporting staff, and equipment required in surgery,   and  .
  
  The decision to make parts of Cama and GT an extension of Tata Memorial was taken at a meeting between top officials of the cancer hospital and State Medical Education Minister Girish Mahajan.
  
  Lahane said while a linear accelerator radiotherapy machine is available at Cama, another will be added once funds from the Union and state governments arrive.
  
  He said advanced radiotherapy techniques like intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT), image guided radiotherapy ( ), volumetric arc radiotherapy (V-MAT), and respiratory gating are also now available at  .
