PATNA: Sudden turn of events in Bihar politics kept social media users busy since Wednesday evening when   drove to Raj Bhavan to submit his resignation to governor Keshri Nath Tripathi.

 Many remained glued to their television sets till late into Wednesday night to catch the developments. Aditi Mishra (27), an early riser who goes to bed by 10.30pm, said her entire family was awake on Wednesday night. “In fact, entire Patna was awake. We could see huge gathering of journalists and cops outside the Raj Bhavan. Everyone was asking: What next?” she said.
 
 People compared the political situation in Bihar to popular American television series ‘Game of Thrones’. Such was the impact globally that Nitish Kumar was trending on Facebook and US president Donald Trump was second on the list. Even Twitter was flooded with various hashtags like #Nitishgharwapsi, #Bihar, #NitishKumar and Lalu Yadav. 
 
 Apart from hard hitting news on social media with numerous comments by the readers, jokes on political situation in Bihar flooded almost all WhatsApp groups. While many welcomed Nitish’s move to quit Mahagathbandhan to retain his image of ‘sushasan babu’, others criticised him for “ditching” RJD and Congress.
 
 Most of the jokes revolved around ‘Nitish-Lalu divorce’. “A newly married woman (Nitish Kumar) has run away with her former lover (BJP),” a man posted on Facebook. 
 
 Taking a cue from ‘Sonam Gupta bewafa hai’, one of the top trends during demonetisation, many wrote ‘Nitish Kumar bewafa hai’ on currency notes and shared with their friends and family members. A joke compared Nitish to a girl who keeps two boyfriends so that when one is upset, another would recharge her cellphone. People also hit out at Nitish saying, ‘Tejashwi to bahana tha, BJP me jana tha’.
 
 Even Lalu and his family members were mocked by people on social media and many called them ‘Chara Chor’. Hindi poem Chanda Mama was replicated as, “Lalua Lalua dur ke, chara khaye chur ke, Tejashwi ko diya thali me, Nitish ko diya pyali me, Nitish gaye ruth, Mahagatbandhan gaya toot’. Videos and posters too flooded the social media. In one of the moving animated picture, Lalu could be seen hitting at CM’s chair, but it was deputy CM who fell. 
 
 “Lalu and his family members are heading for a majority – not in Bihar assembly but in jail,” quipped a Twitter user.
 
 Meanwhile, Lalu’s two sons – Tejashwi and Tej Pratap – changed their designations on social media sites to former deputy CM and former minister, respectively.
 
 
