KOLKATA: Srabonti Roy, a 41-year-old IT executive, found it strange to be stuck in a bumper-to-bumper   around 9am on Wednesday on a narrow road leading to Pallishree crossing at  , which usually remained empty at that time. As she stepped out of her car to check, she was greeted by a stranger sight: people, sporting saffron scarves and headbands, marching through the streets, chanting, “Jai Shree Ram”. 

 Thanks to the  , which wound past Garia crossing, Ramgarh, Ganguly Bagan, Bagha Jatin to culminate at Bijoygarh, Roy reached her Bantala Leather Complex office late. Given the rule that she would have to clock nine hours at work, she had to stay back till 7.30pm. That, in turn, translated into her returning home at Tollygunge well after 9pm. 
 
 Roy wasn’t the only one. Even as Kolkata witnessed a never-before scene of a series of   processions —22 to be precise—hitting the roads since 7 in the morning, office-goers bore the brunt. The first procession of the day took the Bhowanipore-Padmapukur-Chakraberia route, with scores of schoolchildren, walking along other participants, brandishing sticks and swords. Soon, another rally started off, this one in north Kolkata, spelling misery for commuters. The biggest rally in the north started from Cossiepore and ended at Ram Mandir. 
 
 Among the sufferers was Abiskar Sinha, marketing head at an international airline, who got stuck on M G Road, on his way to his Theatre Road office. “I had gone to meet a travel agent and while returning, was caught in the jam. It was around 11am. The stretch was blocked as a procession of bikers carrying flags passed by. It usually takes me around 35-40 minutes to reach office, but today it was more than an hour,” Sinha said.  , a student at Raja Rammohan College was also caught in a snarl at Sealdah. “I had to reach the station by 7pm to receive my family returning from Cooch Behar. But I failed to be there on time,” Ashutosh added. Commuters in Howrah were not spared either. Gopal Nandi, who faced a jam near Belilious Park, said, “It took me almost three hours to reach my home in Behala.”
 
 The police had earlier in the day listed 14 processions, though 22 were held. Even late into the night, the   kept updating their social media site about roads being blocked due to “religious processions”; Cossipore Road, southern flank of B T Road and the Park Circus-connector were the worst.
 
 For all the hardship faced by commuters, a senior RSS member claimed, “The response from the common man was very good.” Even state BJP president Dilip Ghosh said, “We fully support such programmes to celebrate Ram Navami. It will help people unite against the anti-national forces and vote-bank politics.”
 
 
