Puducherry: The   ( ) turned down the request of chief minister V   to postpone the first round of   to fill up   seats under management quota in three private medical colleges and hospitals in the Union territory of   beyond the July 24 deadline. 

 MCI secretary (in-charge) Reena Nayyar while replying to Narayanasamy’s letter cited a Supreme Court judgement and urged him to ensure that the statutory time schedule for completion of admission process is ‘strictly complied with’ and ‘no deviations’ made. Narayanasamy in a letter dated July 23 addressed to the Union health and family welfare minister Jagat Prakash Nadda, marking a copy to MCI chairperson, sought permission to allow the centralized admission committee (Centac) to continue first round of counselling to fill up MBBS seats under management quota in three private colleges beyond July 24.
 
 Nayyar said the Supreme Court in an order dated July 5 readjusted the dates of various stages of admission to MBBS course following delay in publishing the results of National eligibility cum entrance test (Neet). But the Supreme Court declared that the last date (August 31) up to which the students can be admitted to MBBS course against the vacancies by the deemed universities and medical institutions remains unchanged. 
 
 The government claimed that the decision to seek postponement was taken following a representation from various students and parents association that Tamil Nadu students will get maximum seats in Puducherry under management quota as the admission has been stalled in Tamil Nadu. A spokesperson of students-parents association V Balasubramanian said ironically both students and private college managements gain out of postponement as Pondy students need not compete with Tamil Nadu students and private colleges too have time to focus on next course of action
 
 As per the readjusted dates, the first round of counselling to fill up MBBS seats under state and management quotas must be completed between July 16 and 24. Centac held the first round of counselling to fill up MBBS seats under government quota on July 22 and 23. But the committee postponed counselling to fill up MBBS seats under management quota on July 24 after Nayaranasamy’s July 23 letter to Nadda and MCI chairperson.
 
 Puducherry government might face the wrath of the topmost court, which can initiate contempt proceedings for failing to honour its order by holding the first round of counselling before July 24. As per the readjusted schedule, the students allotted seats in the first round of counselling must join the colleges by July 31. The committee must hold the second round of counselling from August 1 to 7 for all India quota and from August 8 to 19 for state and management quotas. Classes for the first year MBBS programme must commence from August 1 and the last date for admission is August 31.
 
 
