Tejaswi Madivada’s hot new makeover has been the talk of T-town thanks to the new profile picture on her mircoblog. While there is little doubt that she is looking 
fitter, hotter and edgier than ever, doesn’t seem like it’s got anything to do with her latest signing though — Ravi Teja’s next directed by Anil Ravipudi. “Oh it was fun shoot I did recently; it just turned out hot I guess. Anyway, it’s high time I stopped looking like the cute girl next door, no? So yes, I can look like this too; hope the filmmakers are noticing,” she says, smiling.
 
 What Tejaswi is more excited about though, is trying her hand at playing a comic role in the Mass Maharaja-starrer. “It’s a family drama loaded with entertainment. I play Rajendra Prasad’s daughter; it is a really funny character. The story revolves around a series of events that take place after   (the lead actress) runs away from Hyderabad to come live with us. In fact, both me and   are the comic relief in the movie,” she says.
 
 The prospect of performing with stalwarts like Rajendra Prasad and   admittedly made her quite anxious. “This is first time I’m trying my hand at comedy. I’m nervous to be sharing screen space with a legend like Rajendra sir. And when you have somebody like Ravi Teja, you can’t go wrong with the comic timing. Well, I’m naturally funny, so I’m hopeful of pulling it off,” says the actress, who is scheduled to join the film’s shoot in Darjeeling soon.
 
 Tejaswi has also bagged a role in the upcoming   starrer. Talking about her role in that one she says, “I play a really smart girl who is a close friend of Regina. We share a very interesting relationship, where Regina ends up taking credit for things I do.”
 
 Thrilled about trying comedy for the first time in Ravi Teja’s next
 I play Rajendra Prasad’s daughter; it is a really funny character. The story revolves around a series of events that take place after Mehreen (the lead actress) runs away from Hyderabad to come live with us. In fact, both me and Rajendra Prasad garu are the comic relief in the movie.
 
