GURUGRAM:   have reacted with shock at the decision by the management of DPSG Palam Vihar to close the school indefinitely, till the government accorded it recognition. 

 The DPSG Society — which had taken over management of Chiranjeev Bharti School — maintained the management has decided to be on the right side of law, amid a “relentless vilification campaign” that included allegations of charging fee and hiking it, without being recognised.
 
 “This cruel decision has put the education of thousands of students at stake,” said Yashesh Yadav, a parent whose child is a student. “We’ll take this up with the divisional commissioner. What will we do with our kids now?”
 
 This Wednesday, after TOI reported the school’s decision — to challenge the divisional commissioner’s order barring it from hiking fees this year, because under the new management, they were yet to submit Form VI of Haryana School Education Rules 2003 for official recognition — shocked parents decided to organise protests in front of the school. 
 
 “As soon as the word spread on social media, we were notified of the school’s decision to shut down on May 11,” Yadav said. “It looked suspicious. So, we decided to ask them today why the sudden decision. We were shocked when the principal told a parent’s delegation they won’t open till the government issues them recognition.”
 
 Parents’ groups have reacted sharply at the move. “This is condemnable,” said Bhupinder Singh of All India Parents Forum for Education. “It militates against the essence of Right to Education that PM Modi publicises all over the media.”
 
 Gurgaon divisional commissioner D Suresh, who is also the chairman of Gurgaon’s fee and fund regulatory committee (FFRC), described the step as unfortunate. He said, “Parents are agitating against unauthorised  , not against Form VI submission. The government, too, wants to intervene as a last resort. As FFRC chairman, my job is only to look into fee hike-related complaints. Form VI is the education department’s prerogative. I can’t compel the school to open.”
 
 Sandeep Dagar, another parent, said, “These are revenge tactics. We’ll approach the divisional commissioner and the education department. The school’s dictatorial approach is not going to work. What about the careers of our kids? When our children were admitted, the school was named Chiranjeev Bharti. DPSG must withdraw ownership and hand it back to its predecessor.”
 
 Sumit Vohra, founder of nurseryadmissions.com, questioned why the move has come at a time when summer vacations are round the corner. “This is clearly an eyewash,” he said. “They’re trying to divert attention from the barrage of criticism they are currently facing. The move is arbitrary and unjust.”
 
