PANCHALA: If you ever get a chance to visit this village like any other village of   you will find hamlets inside it named and   But, one thing that has certainly united   and its hamlets is the  . In a state where barely a fortnight ago people of a community were united for justice for gangster Anandpal Singh after his death, 40-year-old Kishan Singh Deval, a Rajput youth has set up an example of humanity. Singh has shown that flood victims are just victims irrespective of their caste, creed and community when his family not only saved Dalit families of neighbouring   but they have been feeding 30 members of Dalit family at their home. Literally untouchablity has no place in this village. 45-year-old Sharada Devi, a Dalit whose Daliton Ki Dhani in this village was badly inundated was not only saved by Kishan Singh and Parvat Singh's family, but they have been feed like a family member. "That day water was overflowing and water was coming towards our hamlet. The water level was upto waist height level when Kishan Singh Deval along with his family members jumped into it and saved us," said Sharda Devi while recalling the nightmare. 

 Amidst the claims of LN Soni, district collector, Jalore who is claiming to be sending thousands of food packets, Sharada Devi with choked voice, said, "Log Humare Haath Ro Paani Na Peeye, E Log mahaney roti Kwawa riya(People don't even drink water touched by us, but these people are feeding us." 
 
  Kishan Singh, who owns a small grocery store at the bus stand of the village, came. "Marta Minankh Ne Bachawano Pade Roti Na Hovey to Khawani Pade(One has to save a dying human and if needed he has to be given food)," said Kishan Singh Dewal, talking to TOI. Like Sharda Devi at least 30 other members of their hamlet whose houses were damaged in the flash floods are invited at the homes of Rajput families and are given lunches and dinners. They alleged that they have not heard of any rescue or relief operation running in their village. On the other hand 50-year-old Babu Khan who lives in Molia Ka Bas, a muslim dominated hamlet had all praises for Paras Giri, the tent dealer. "Our houses collapsed in the torrential rainfall. He(Paras Giri) erected tents for us and also allowed to cook our food in a place given by him. I have no words to express my gratitude," he added.
 
 
