HYDERABAD: After a wait of four years, a part of Phase II of the Multi-Model Transport System ( ) is finally set to see light of the day by the end of this year. Vinod Kumar Yadav, general manager,  , announced on Tuesday that the 5.75 km long Tellapur-R C Puram stretch will be the first in Phase II to get operational by December 2017. Subsequently, the entire project will be rolled out by December 2018. 

 On Tuesday, Yadav, who has recently taken charge, took mediapersons on a tour of the ongoing work being carried out on the Secunderabad-Moula Ali-Cherlapally-Ghatkesar section. 
 
 Totaling 96.25 km, the Phase II project is spread across six routes. The total cost of the project is Rs 817 crore. This will be shared between the state government (it is supposed to pay two-thirds of the cost) and the SCR authorities. 
 
 Being implemented by the   (RVNL), this phase of the venture is still ridden with a few roadblocks. Among them is the issue of building a station at the Shamshabad airport -- a proposition being opposed tooth and nail by the airport authorities. There is also the issue of acquiring defence land along the Sanathnagar-Moula Ali stretch. In both cases, central ministries (civil aviation and defence) have now intervened to resolve the crisis.
 
 “We have already taken up the issue with the concerned ministry and are hopeful of sorting out hurdles at the earliest,” the newly sworn-in general manager said. He also confirmed that the MMTS connectivity to Yadadri – which too was on hold for a while --- has been sanctioned and the final location survey now is complete. “Tenders will be invited by April 20,” he said.
 
 On the issue of developing the Cherlapally station as a ‘satellite terminal’ – which will help decongest the traffic, of both long-distance and MMTS trains – he said that SCR has sought 150 acres of land from the state government for the same. The new terminal will be armed with six platforms and additional passenger/maintenance facilities. The project is expected to cost Rs 80 crore.
 
 “The satellite terminal is meant to lessen the burden on   railway station. Works in this regard have already been commenced. SCR has identified 50 acres of land and is in discussion with the state to acquire another 150 acres,” he added. 
 
 Further, on the sidelines of the tour, Yadav pointed out that “safety” of passengers would be a prime area of focus for his team, during his tenure. He also stressed on improved mobility and punctuality. “SCR is according top priority to safety. Drives have been initiated to check railway tracks and rolling stock, including coaches and wagons,” he said. He also mentioned that a new system for employee redressal has been put in place where a staff member can directly approach the general manager, if the grievance remains unresolved for a month. 
 
 
