New Delhi: Delhi and the rest of   states have decided that the proof of   paid during purchase of any vehicle will be checked to ascertain if the SC’s recent order banning registration of BS-III vehicles is being implemented or not. The SC-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) held an urgent meeting on Friday to review how the apex court’s order will be enforced.

 EPCA members said they had received a number of complaints that auto dealers were resorting to “fake sales” of BS-III models so that these can be resold after April 1. “How will you ensure the implementation of the SC order? What is the proof you will ask for,” EPCA member Sunita Narain asked representatives of NCR states who were present at the meeting. 
 
 Officials from Uttar Pradesh said that if sales tax had been paid, it would show online. Online tax receipt can be the proof. If it has been paid before April 1, the vehicle can be registered, otherwise it should be rejected. 
 
 Other states too assured that they would consider the sales tax receipt as proof. As for the chassis, officials said they would consider temporary registration document and insurance  . 
 
 The Delhi government has already issued an order to RTOs and MLOs, briefing them about the SC directive. “In case, a vehicle is claimed to have been sold before April 1, 2017, registration authorities/MLOs shall obtain a proof of that sale and will personally satisfy themselves about the correctness of the proof…all MLOs should obtain the details of the number of BS-III vehicles sold, but not registered till March 31, from all dealers in their jurisdiction…” the government order said.
 
 EPCA said the auto manufacturers will have to apprise the Supreme Court of what they have done to their BS-III inventories, which the industry claims, stand at 8 lakh. NCR states were asked to submit a report on the registrations done on or after April 1.
 
 Officials from NCR states said there was a massive demand for buying two-wheelers in most cities at the last minute. Manufacturers were offering discounts up to 15% or even higher to sell as many units as possible by March 31.
 
