NEW DELHI: Over the last two days, during the mid-pitch practice with the   at the Ferozehshah Kotla,   seemed more intent on keeping the balls on the ground before he got into his long-range hitting mode.

 The 19-year-old Pant is the big buzz in Indian cricket, with a tally of 1101 first-class runs at an average of 68.81, striking at the rate of 101.10 per 100 balls in his 11games. A T20I debut against England didn't come as a surprise.
 
 His numbers generate as much excitement as his striking abilities do. But one was looking at a slightly different Rishabh Pant at the Kotla this week: he seemed a good 8-10 kgs lighter, more cautious, and was clearly moving around with greater authority. After all, he has worn India's blue jersey en route his emergence as Delhi cricket's best bats man. He is also back at the Daredevils as one of their big-money players.
 
 “Bas India player ka tthappa lagane se nahin hota hain (stamp of being an India player is not enough). Challenge toh India ke liye khelte rehne mein hain (Challenge is to keep playing for India),“ Pant said. “I always believed `woh khelte khelte reh gaya, ya aur lamba khel sakta tha', means very little at the end of the day.”
 
 Excitement, anxiety and agony have all played their part in Pant's rapid journey , much like the way he has gone about raking up his runs over the last year-and-a-half. The dry spell of runs in the Vijay Hazare tournament, along with the controversy in the Delhi team under his captaincy , was bound to shake him up. The dream run came to a screeching halt at the back end of the domestic season.
 
 “Cricket mein bahut kuch bahut jaldi bhi mil sakta hain (cricket can give you a lot of things very quickly) or you could be made to wait for a longer while. All you have to do is to evolve and better your performance,“ Pant reckons. The wicketkeeping has taken precedence and shedding weight was a part of getting his act right behind the stumps. “Rishabh has improved a lot as a wicketkeeper in the last eight months. He is a good wicketkeeper now,“ former India wicketkeeper Kiran More, who is working with India's next line of wicketkeepers, told TOI.
 
 Multi-crore deals and ferocious branding by his PR machinery have also put him in the public eye, and with that has come the pressure of performing big in this  . “A lot has changed in the outside world surrounding me. I can't deny that and yes, it feels good as well. But I need to see I don't change from within even though I am as confident. This game is all about performance and I need to keep improving and be responsible.“
 
 The IPL and going back to Rahul `sir' (Rahul Dravid; Daredevils coach) couldn't have come at a better time. The tumultuous run as a captain of the Delhi one-day team was star ting to show its effect on his game, something his coach and go-to man Tarak Sinha reckons had got him “confused“. “Rahul sir keeps it simple. He says: always learn to move forward. Keep the past be hind, chaahe ganda ho ya accha.“
 
 Pant says he is trying hard to ingrain this advice.
 
 The role models, Pant points out, have changed. From being a fan of Adam Gilchrist to picking up `innovative wicketkeeping skills' from MS Dhoni, Pant seems here to stay . A good IPL will only add to his growing stature.
 
 
