Each person who walks in to see the art installation,  , interprets it in a different way. All that little Ryan was attracted to when he saw the mirrors was his reflection on it. With awe in his eyes, he said, “This is the best of all. I can run around and see myself!” For homemaker Rekha Nair, it made her think about herself from countless perspectives. Created by  , artist Parvathy Nayar and designer Abin Chauduri, the installation is situated on the exterior spaces of Gallery OED in Fort Kochi.

  Explaining the idea behind the installation, Parvathy says, “It is a reflection of the urbanisation of Kochi and also a reflection of your own thoughts.” As one walks through the maze, one will find that the centre of the maze is a square, a quadrangle. “We have deconstructed the idea of the nalukettu. The roofs are made of the ropes resembling that of the Chinese fishing net. So the work anchors between the past and the present. Fort Kochi is exactly that, a combination of the old and new,” she explained. 
 
 Why did they choose mirrors for walls? “Mirrors are very popular in Kerala, like the Aranmula Kannadi. That is why we used the mirrors to build the nalukettu. While you walk through the nalukettu, you will see that some of the mirrors are fixed while some aren’t. You should know that you are also making choices. We want you to think about the choices you are making; what part of history you want to keep and what you want to throw away,” she says. 
 
 A print of the Google map of the whole area is hung on top of it. The viewer will be forced to have a self-interactive session when they see the reflections on the mirror; that of the old and new structures, as well as your own images.
 
 Architect Biju Kuriakose explains that it is precisely the reason why they have connected their installation to the old building, which was earlier the warehouse and now an art gallery. “We want the public to remember how much things have changed and how much more it can transform. The buildings made in the past are now used for different programmes but they still remind us of the past. The reflections on the mirror are a reminder and also an inspiration to look forward to the future. Our work is a window even 
 for us to remind ourselves of the changes and adapt to them,” he said.
 
 
 
