AURANGABAD: The enactment of long-pending Act for public universities in the state and effective implementation of another newly-framed Act for carrying out   for different professional courses proved some of the highlights for higher education sector in 2016.

 The violent clash between police and agitating teachers from permanently unaided schools during a cabinet meet on October 4 in Aurangabad will be remembered for a long time as serious charges, including attempt to murder, were slapped against the protesting teachers.
 
 The school education sector, unlike higher education sector, did not witness any major positive development. Rehabilitation of out-of-school children and average implementation of RTE Act continued to haunt government authorities.
 
 There were no major takeaways for Dr   (BAMU) in 2016 as the varsity continued to suffer owing to vacant posts of registrar and controller of examinations.
 
 The state cabinet sanctioning Rs 150 crore for Gopinathrao Munde National Institute of Rural Development and Research (GMNIRD), proposed at BAMU, was among the few highpoints for the varsity.
 
 The   1994 was repealed to make way for new legislation around a year ago, but the delay in bringing in the new Act continues to draw criticism for the government.
 
 Also, the Maharashtra Public Universities Act 2016 — cleared by the state legislature during winter session — made ways for student elections that were banned for years after incidents of violence.
 
 While a section of stakeholders alleged that new Act was altogether different from what was originally conceived by experts, the education department defended a range of amendments made by sub-committees and joint select committee of the Legislature.
 
 Aspirants of different professional courses, for the first time, experienced maximum degree of freedom while making admission choices with minimum risk by virtue of Freeze, Slide and Float options made available by the Maharashtra Unaided Private Professional Educational Institutions ( ) Act, 2015.
 
 While the government earned goodwill of permanently unaided schools by announcing release of 20% aid to a section of eligible schools, the October 4 protest invited unwanted trouble for it.
 
 A head-constable, attached with Borivali railway police died, due to heart-attack at the protest spot while nine others suffered injuries as teachers’ protest near the venue of the state cabinet meeting turned violent.
 
 The year also witnessed as many as 16 lakh SSC students appearing for first-of-its-kind aptitude test. This state-level exercise was aimed at making students aware about their inclination and aptitude through scientific methods.
 
