MARGAO: Caste equations, albeit in a subtle manner, does play its role in Goa’s elections. Did overplay of the caste card cost Ramesh Tawadkar the   ticket for the February 4 state assembly elections?

 Political analysts seem to largely agree with the view point that Tawadkar blatantly wore his caste on his sleeves that alienated the non-tribal and upper caste communities from the three-term legislator who held three major portfolios – agriculture, sports and tribal welfare.
 
 “In politics, caste works as your trump card only when it is used sparingly and judiciously. In the case of Tawadkar, he began to use his ST card as the ‘be all and end all’ of his political existence. In the process, he eventually came to be viewed among his own tribal brethren as snobbish and high-handed. This attitude made the non-tribal community, who had supported Tawadkar in his earlier elections, discomfiting. As a result, Tawadkar’s popularity in Canacona began to wane,” a political commentator, wishing anonymity, told TOI.
 
 Sources within the BJP confirmed that Tawadkar was cautioned twice by the party brass within the last two years to take immediate steps to arrest his sliding popularity graph to eliminate any threat to his nomination in the next elections. While an internal survey by the party showed Tawadkar’s prospects to be far from safe, sources said that the tribal-dominated hamlets like Cotigao and Gaondongrim also voted against the Tawadkar-supported candidate in the zilla panchayat elections.
 
 As Tawadkar’s declining popularity had the party leadership concerned, former Canacona MLA, Vijay Pai Khot’s seemingly successful attempts at reaching out to all sections of his voters in the last couple of years, presented an alternative which the party leadership was quick to tap into.
 
 “It would have been suicidal for the BJP not to take notice of the increasing support in favour of Khot. Besides, Khot could have been an easy prey for the MGP, which could have made matters worse for the party. The party leadership, realizing the potential threat, made some quick moves to deny its alliance partner of five years any leeway. While assuring Khot of BJP nomination, it kept Tawadkar on tenterhooks until the near-formal announcement of candidates,” a political commentator, said.
 
 Sources also pointed out to the not-so-comfortable equation of Tawadkar with his senior colleagues in the cabinet owing to what sources described as his “overbearing” attitude. His isolation was complete when he failed to receive any conceivable support from his party colleagues when his nomination was at stake.
 
 While Tawadkar’s failure in passing muster on the popularity score may have been a dominant factor that led to rejection of his nomination, sources pointed out that several factors “beyond Canacona” were also factored in.
 
 “An uncanny sense of uneasiness was always felt by the party with regards to Tawadkar since his induction in the Manohar Parrikar-led cabinet. While it was almost decided that (fisheries minister) Avertano Furtado would be given the sports portfolio, Tawadkar is believed to have prevailed upon Parrikar to hand him over the much-sought after ministry. Two, ahead of the Lusofonia Games that were hosted by Goa, Elvis Gomes, was suddenly transferred from being the executive director of SAG ( ) to head the director of municipal administration, apparently at Tawadkar’s behest, though Gomes was handpicked by Parrikar to streamline the functioning of the SAG. Three, Tawadkar was perceived to have a tantalizingly close equation with RSS Goa prant sanghchalak, Subhash Velingkar, over the MoI issue. Join the dots and you get a whole picture,” a political analyst remarked. 
 
 While rebellion has set in the BJP camp in Canacona over the development, the party managers are confident of stemming the revolt with least possible damage.
 
 “The party had also factored in rebellion by Tawadkar and his supporters during its internal assessment. We are confident of retaining the Canacona seat with comfortable ease,” a senior party functionary told TOI.
 
 
