BENGALURU: Achievements and accolades rest lightly on Pt Vishwa Mohan Bhatt’s shoulders. For a  , Bhatt has absolutely no problem in calling you if it means getting the job done. The creator of the Mohan veena, Bhatt will perform at the Times Swarsangam on Sunday. 

 He will share the stage with flute protégé  . String instrument versus wind instrument, a senior musician versus a younger artiste — the musical dialogue will be interesting on multiple levels, and Bhatt is game for it. 
 
 “I like performing with younger generation musicians, and I try and encourage every young artiste who is pursuing music seriously,” says Bhatt, who was the foremost disciple of Pt Ravi Shankar. Bhatt is a regular visitor to Bengaluru and admits to enjoying performing here. “Bengaluru is a very happening city. The audience here loves music and is knowledgeable. I get inspiration from the audience there. Every time I perform, the standing ovation lasts for over a minute. It almost feels like you are performing in a Western country,” he says.
 
 A keen collaborator, his work with Ry Cooder for their world music album, A Meeting by the River, won him a Grammy in 1994 and in 1997. His collaboration with banjo player Bela Fleck and Jie-Bing Chen for the album, Tabula Rasa, won him his second Grammy nomination. 
 
 Bhatt’s all for experimenting with concert formats if it means attracting audiences to Indian classical music. “Bengaluru is a city where you can do anything, and the audience will like it. The Swarsangam jugalbandi is an ideal format,” he says. 
 
 Quiz him about his down-to-earth demeanour that tends to surprise people when they initially meet him, and the Padma Bhushan awardee laughs it away. “There’s a quote in Sanskrit that goes, Vidya Dadati Vinayam. It mean ‘knowledge makes you humble’. It’s the tree laden with fruits that bends low. I think my learning keeps me humbled inspite of my success. Also, when I see youngsters today struggling in music, I remember my initial days. That keeps me grounded.” 
 
 Times Swarsangam, powered by TTK Prestige, will be held on March 11 and 12 at Chowdiah Memorial Hall. Tickets are available on Bookmyshow. A special exhibition of rare musical instruments is being organized by the Indian Music Experience.
 
 
 
 
 
 Dr Lakshminarayana Subramaniam is one of India’s most celebrated violin players. The multi-talented musician was initiated into music rather early, before he was five years old. His father, professor V Lakshminarayana, was his first guru, and he gave his first performance when he was six. A qualified doctor, Subramaniam’s decades-long musical career has seen him work with Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavatar, Yehudi Menuhin, Herbie Hancock and George Harrison. In 2011, he was invited to perform at the United Nations. On October 24, 2012, he performed as a special guest artist with Stevie Wonder at the latter’s message of peace concert at the UN. Subramaniam recently received an award from Trinity College London.
 
 
 
 
 He is the only tuba virtuoso to have carved out a career as a soloist, rather than becoming member of an orchestra. His multi-faceted musical career as a soloist, chamber musician, lecturer and recording artist has taken him all over the world. Baadsvik studied under the celebrated tuba player Harvey Phillips, distinguished professor meritus, department of music, Indiana University and with the legendary Arnold Jacobs, who had a 40-year-long career and position of principal tuba with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. He has performed with orchestras like Oslo Philharmonic Orchestra, Bergen Philharmonic, Warsaw Philharmonic Orchestra, Taipei National Symphony Orchestra, Singapore Philharmonic, and Orchestra Victoria of Melbourne. In 2006, he made his New York recital debut at Carnegie Hall.
 
 
 
 
 A child prodigy who started playing music at the age of 6, Shashank Subramanyam is a Grammy nominated flute exponent. Trained by his father Subramanyam and vocal maestros RK Srikantan and Palghat KV Narayanaswami, he is considered one of the best bamboo flute artists globally. A performer with over 25 years of experience, Subramanyam’s landmark concerts include playing at the Rashtrapathi Bhavan in 1992, Skopje Jazz Festival – Macedonia, The Smithsonian, Kennedy Center and National Academy of Sciences in Washington DC, J Paul Getty Hall-Hollywood, Eastman School of Music-Rochester, World Music Institute-New York, Asian Art Museum-San Francisco, Xebec Hall and Across Fukuoka in Kobe and Fukuoka, Japan, World Flute Conference -Nashville, Sawai Gandharva Festival-Pune, Saptak Festival-Ahmedabad and Dover Lane Music festival-Calcutta.
 
 
