LUCKNOW: Releasing the   manifesto on Wednesday, party’s UP in charge   said the SP-Congress alliance will fight the divisive forces which are gaining ground across the country. “The coming together of the SP and Congress is an important moment in the history of Indian politics,” he added. He also accused the BJP of formulating “anti-poor and anti-people policies”.

 The 12-page   promises a new law on hate crimes, which will lay down enhanced punishment for those creating tension on caste and religious lines. The party has also promised to appoint a police ombudsman for handling cases of police oppression and for providing post-investigation relief to the victims.
 
 UPCC chief Raj Babbar, former Delhi CM Sheila Dikshit,  , Salman Khurshid, Nirmal Khatri and Pramod Tiwari were also present during the manifesto release.
 
 Seeking to take MGNREGS a step further, the party said it will enact a state law guaranteeing at least 150 days of employment if the SP-Congress alliance comes to power in the state. “Since the Centre has abandoned MGNREGS, the state will ensure that one member of every family has access to a job that pays higher than minimum wages prescribed in the state,” the manifesto states.
 
 For safety of women, the law passed by the UPA government would be implemented effectively against anyone guilty of committing atrocities and crimes against women. The party has also promised to launch Kanya Sanshaktikaran Yojana to ensure aid of Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh for every girl child when she turns 18, besides scholarships to women pursuing higher studies. The party has assured to provide 50% reservation to women in panchayat elections.
 
 The party has promised the appointment of a Diversity Commission, a   in every block and Suraksha Mitra to assist in filing of cases committed against the Dalits.
 
 The manifesto mentions thrust areas to boost infrastructure and promises food security by providing wheat and rice at Rs 3 and Rs 2 per kg, respectively, giving nutritious meal in Mid Day Meal scheme and revamp of the public distribution system.
 
 Congress also reiterated its ‘Karza maaf, bijli half’ and has pledged to ensure adequate return to farmers and make the mandi system more farmer friendly.
 
 A new industrial policy with emphasis on MSME would be formulated. The party has also promised free education for every girl child and free bicycles to girl students from class IX to XII.
 
 
