When it comes to sports, Coimbatore continues to prove that there is no dearth of talent in the city. The latest sportsperson to make the city proud is K Ravishankar, a fitness freelancer and personal trainer from Flower Market.   recently brought home a silver and bronze medal from the Nihon Shito-Ryu Karate-Do Shobukai International   Championship that was held in  . He took part in the senior category black belt, kumite (sparring) and kata (display of transition and flow from one posture and movement to another), in which he won the silver and bronze respectively.

 The 27-year-old Karate expert gushes, “This was my first international championship and I am glad that I could bring back medals home. It was my uncle K Suresh Babu, a karate exponent, who asked me to take part in the championship. I trained hard for two months- three hours in the morning and three in the evening for the same. Though being a fitness trainer helped me stay fit, I still had to work on my flexibility and my kicks, which are essential for karate. The finals were with a Sri Lankan Karate black belt Dan rank 2 sportsperson and the bout was quite a challenge. But, I was able to defend him throughout the game.”
 
 Ravishankar’s tryst with Karate began when he was just 15 years old. “I had gone to visit my uncle (Suresh Babu) after completing by 10th exams. Being a karate exponent, he wanted me to learn the form as well. Since, then there has been looking back. I started visiting him often during my holidays. I continued my karate practice in Coimbatore and took part in many sports activities as well to keep the adrenalin rush going.” Ravishankar’s father SN Kumar is a weaver and his mother Shanthi, a homemaker.
 
 The fitness bug bit him so hard that the former employee of a telecom firm quit his corporate job and took the plunge into fitness. “I realized that fitness is where my heart was. I now train underprivileged athletes from the city. I also provide hurdle, endurance, strength and flexibility training to others. But, I would like to establish a name for myself in Karate. To do that, we need material and financial support. Unfortunately, it’s really tough for sportspersons to find sponsors in country. Though sponsors pour in after you bring home the medals, what about the funds for training? I was fortunate enough to spend for the event in Sri Lanka, but the journey forward would be difficult without sponsors,” says Ravishankar, who is now aspiring to train for 2020 Olympics in Tokyo. 
 
 
