INDORE: Audhyogik Kendra Vikas Nigam (AKVN) has come up with 100 acres of land in Machal in Depalpur tehsil for a  . The industry department has come up with three new industrial belts near Indore to eye investments from large industries.

 The industrial belts are being made in Machal,   in Depalpur tehsil and   in   district.
 
 Kumar Purushottam, managing director (MD), AKVN said, “We are developing three new industrial belts near Indore. We have realised most industries want to set up facilities close to the city for better connectivity and resources.”
 
 The industrial belt at Machal spread will be of 100 acres and has been reserved for the food park while the other two industrial areas will be kept open for any industry.
 
 The industry department developed industrial belts on the outskirts of the city with the aim they would receive a good response from industries. But with the lacklustre response, the department has now refrained from developing industrial areas in isolated places.
 
 A majority of industrialists have demanded land in developed zones for proper infrastructure and facilities.
 
 “Connectivity to the airport and highways are a major demand of industries that have approached us to set up facilities,” said Purushottam. 
 
 According to the industry department, the other two industrial belts at Chirakhan and Mohana will come up on 200 acres and 300 acres respectively.
 
 “We have started to show these areas to industries that are interested to make investments. We hope to allot plots to large companies looking for a big chunk of land,” he added.
 
 The industry department is in talks with a leading automobile company regarding Mohana industrial belt.
 
 The state has allocated Rs 450 crore to the industry department for 2017-2018 fiscal to develop roads, industrial parks, an ecosystem, etc.
 
 In 2016-2017, a record 92 companies have proposed an investment of Rs 3,400 crore in parts of Indore region. Of these, 23 are large scale companies and 69 are micro, small and medium enterprises.
 
