NEW DELHI:  , the Indian woman who said she was 
  , returned to India Thursday, with Union minister   welcoming her home saying she is "sorry for all that you have gone through."

 Upon crossing the Attari-Wagah border into India, an overwhelmed Uzma - whom Swaraj called "India's daughter" - reached down to touch her country's soil. 
  
 
  
  
 
 The young woman hasn't reached her home in Delhi yet, ANI quoted her brother as saying. 
 
 "Very happy to hear that Uzma is back, but don't know when she will be back in Delhi, since her flight is delayed," said Wasim Ahmad, Uzma's brother, to ANI on Thursday.
 
 "Sushma Swaraj ji always kept us updated on Uzma, made me speak to her once, Indian government thoroughly helped us, want to thank the external affairs ministry," he added.
 
 On Wednesday, the 
  and ordered the police to escort her to the   Border, which it did on Thursday.
 
 
 
 
 Uzma, who is in her early 20s went to a remote district in  's Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province on May 1. She said Tahir Ali, a man whom she reportedly met in Malaysia and fell in love with, forced her to marry him there on May 3. Later, she went to Islamabad and took refuge in the Indian High Commission, alleging she was forced to marry him at gun point.
 
 Uzma petitioned the   on May 12, asking she be allowed to return home urgently as her daughter from her first marriage in India suffered from thalassemia - a blood disorder. Separately, Ali petitioned the court requesting that he be allowed to meet Uzma. The court allowed the meeting but Uzma refused.
 
 The court on Wednesday returned Uzma's immigration papers to her, which she had said were taken away by Ali, who subsequently submitted the documents to court.
 
 Ali told PTI on Wednesday that his point of view wasn't heard. He still called Uzma his "wife."
 
  "She has been allowed to return and I am unhappy because my point of view was not heard," he said.. "She is still my wife. Neither she has asked for divorce nor I have divorced her."
 
 According to Pakistani law, Uzma's lawyer can continue to represent her and she can come back to pursue the case. 
 
 (With inputs from PTI)
 
 
 
 
