JODHPUR: The   on Monday slammed the   for its failure in containing crime in the city and summoned secretary (home) and   on September 22.

 Commenting on the firing on city businessman, Vasudev Israni, on Sunday night, in which he succumbed to the gun shot, the high court said that there was nothing like law and order in the city, which is a matter of shame for the police.
 
 The division bench comprising justice Govind Mathur and Vineet Kumar Mathur also expressed anger over seeking more time by the additional advocate general Rajesh Panwar for compliance of the report of the previous hearing on July 5, in which the police commissioner had assured to improve the law and order in the city and arresting the criminals. Justice Mathur also said that had he been the police commissioner, he would have admitted his failure and would have stepped down.
 
 On the other hand, entire Sardarpura ‘C’ Road and Jaljog Circle market remained closed on Monday in protest of the incident. The shopkeepers shouted slogans against police and refused to budge until the accused were arrested.
 
 Expressing ire over the incident, the Youth Congress burnt effigy of chief minister Vasundhara Raje at the Sojati Gate Square in the evening demanding removal of police commissioner Ashok Rathore, who has completed over 3 years of his stint in Jodhpur.
 
 Before this, the agriculture and farmers’ welfare minister for state Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who is MP from Jodhpur had also demanded immediate removal of Rathore from Jodhpur.
 
 Israni was shot at by three motorcycle-borne assailants at 11 pm on Sunday while he was shutting the shop, barely 100 meters from the Sardarpura Police Station. He sustained two shots, one of which pierced through his back and stuck in the spine. He was immediately rushed to the hospital but could not be saved.
 
 Interestingly, at the time of incident, the home minister of the state Gulab Chand Kataria was also present in the city, close to the spot of crime. There were adequate police arrangements but even these arrangements failed to deter the criminals.
 
 Israni was shot at in similar manner three months ago but then the shooters had fired warning shots. After that, barely 15 days back, Israni had received threats over phone demanding money from him, after which the police had provided him armed police commando as security.
 
 
