PUNE: The city on January 13 bore witness to a vicious case of road rage, in which a car driver lost 4 teeth.

 The reported victim, 34-year-old Vijay  , who works as a driver for an entrepreneur, was heading towards Bhairobanala Pumping Station in Hadapsar, via   area, from the Pune railway station along with his employer.
 
 According to sub-inspector AB Bhosale of   police station, the incident started from the Koregaon Park junction around 11.30pm, when the suspect overtook Dalvi’s car rashly. While overtaking, the suspect’s car accidentally brushed Dalvi’s car and damaged its bumper.
 
 Bhosale said the suspect was driving his car at a high speed and in a zigzag manner. This troubled Dalvi a few times. However, as he gave him way, the suspect’s car brushed Dalvi’s car.
 
 When Dalvi shouted at him, the suspect pulled over and blocked Dalvi’s way. At this point, the suspect alighted from his car and tried to smash Dalvi’s car.
 
 The suspect was accompanied by another person who jumped out of the car and joined in the assault.
 
 The suspect also hurled abuses at Dalvi and his owner. Bhosale said, before Dalvi could react, the suspect dragged him out of his car and punched him on his face and chest.
 
 Dalvi’s employer attempted to stop the accused , but he kept on thrashing Dalvi, Bhosale said. “Due to the continuous punches, Dalvi lost two teeth at the spot. He also sustained serious muscle injuries in the incident,” he added.
 
 After thrashing Dalvi, the suspect and his accomplice fled the spot. Few passersby and Dalvi’s employer took him to a private hospital, where he lost another pair of teeth. He was hospitalised for nearly a week. After recovering from his injuries, he lodged a complaint, following which the unidentified person was booked for the attack.
 
 According to Bhosale, the police are trying to retrieve the video footage of the scene from different   cameras on the road to ascertain the identity of the suspect.
 
 The police have also obtained the registration details of the vehicle, which Dalvi had taken down at the time of incident, Bhosale said, adding that the police have requested the RTO to provide details of the owner of the car, which appears to be from Pune.
 
