KOLKATA: Keep your umbrellas handy when you go   this Puja. The Met office has predicted rain during the ensuing festive period, which may not see very heavy showers either, according to the first Puja weather prediction issued on Monday. Without going into specifics, the weathermen have pegged the chances of a wet puja as ‘very high’.

 “It is likely that we will have a few spells of shower during the period. We can’t yet say if the showers are going to be heavy. It is too early to predict the rainy days. We will be in a better position to predict the rain pattern in greater detail later this week. But it won’t be a fully dry period,” said GK Das, director, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Alipore. The RMC will issue another Puja projection later this week.
 
 On Monday, weathermen analyzed the prevailing weather conditions and made a Puja forecast based on the likely changes over the next 48 hours. It says that even though it rained sporadically in parts of the city on Monday, the showers are likely to lessen on Tuesday and then disappear for at least a few days. 
 
 “The lead-up to Puja will be dry, warm and humid — the kind of weather we have had over the last fortnight. Even though the subsequent period is still unclear, we expect a system to intensify and trigger rain during Durga Puja. It is still too early to predict the intensity or the duration of the showers, though,” Das said.
 
 Two cyclonic circulations now exist in the region — one over Gangetic Bengal and the other in the north-west Bay of Bengal, on the Bengal-Odisha coast. While the former isn’t a strong system, the latter could intensify and trigger rain, the RMC said. “It was responsible for the showers on Monday. It will continue to cause rain on Tuesday as well. But a dry period will follow during which the weather will revert back to the kind we had so far this month. The mercury will hover around the 34-35°C mark and humidity will soar above 90%. It is likely that the dry phase will end during the Puja,” added Das.
 
 September has been exceptionally warm in the city so far with the real-feel temperature often soaring above 45°C, according to a private weather forecasting service. Over the last one week, the average humidity had been around 70% and often touched 90%. The principal trigger behind the choking weather was the absence of rain, said Met officials. “Once showers stop, the mercury shoots and the humidity makes it uncomfortable. It is the temperature that is making the difference here, not the humidity that remains high even when it rains,” explained a Met official.
 
