BHUBANESWAR: Chhattisgarh chief minister   will address a series of rallies while   in the state on February 9 and February 11 in the run up to the  , starting February 13.

 Ignoring voices of protests from rival political parties for Raman's supposed  , the saffron party intends to go ahead with the rallies in Balangir, Sundargarh and Jharsuguda districts.
 
 Ironically, Raman will address a rally at Lakhanpur in Jharsuguda district, an area crisscrossed by the Mahanadi. He is scheduled to address public gatherings in various parts of Balangir, one of the districts receiving canal water supply from the Hirakud reservoir even as the BJD feels construction on the Mahanadi in Chhattisgarh will affect the flow of water into Hirakud.
 
 "These places are close to Chhattisgarh. People here have daily interaction with people from neighbouring Chhattisgarh. We hope Raman's campaigning will make a big impact," BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma said.
 
 The BJD, the Congress and the Samajwadi Party's state unit have earlier questioned the selection of Raman by the BJP as a star campaigner given the raging battle between Odisha and Chhattisgarh over the Mahanadi water sharing. They have announced plans to stage protest against Raman at his rally sites.
 
 Justifying Raman's selection as a star campaigner, Union tribal affairs minister Jual Oram said the BJD is busy extracting political mileage out of the Mahanadi.
 
 "In 2015, all the 20 Lok Sabha members of the BJD were unanimous that large quantity of surplus Mahanadi water was going to waste and had pleaded for interlinking the Mahanadi with water deficient Rushikula to meet irrigation and drinking water needs of southern districts and for flood control in Mahanadi basin. It shows the BJD is not clear as to what it wants, but the BJP is committed to protect Odisha's interest," Jual said.
 
 The Union minister is scheduled to campaign in Rayagada, Malkangiri, Gajapati, Ganjam, Nayagarh, Balasore and Mayurbhanj district on Sunday and Monday, a BJP statement said.
 
 Sources said the party will announce the campaign programmes of Jharkhand chief minister Raghubar Das early next week. He is expected to campaign in tribal-dominated Mayurbhanj and Keonjhar districts, which are adjacent to Jharkhand.
 
