GURUGRAM: Fearing a gang war, that once threatened to break out on city roads, is now brewing in  , police are all set to move courts in Delhi and Rohtak, seeking transfer of some dreaded mobsters to prisons there.

 In a letter shot to the Gurgaon police, prison authorities have revealed that Bhondsi jail is slowly turning into a battleground as many members of rival gangs in Delhi and Rohtak are lodged there. “Most cases of gangsters from Delhi are heard by courts in the capital. Thus, it is more convenient to lodge them in jails there. Many of them are arch rivals, and this has forced us to seek their transfer to Delhi. We have decided to move the court, seeking their transfer from Bhondsi jail,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), Gurgaon. 
 
 Most gangsters in the NCR — those belonging to   gang,   gang,   gang,   gang, Rakesh Hayatpuria gang, Badli gang, Ashok Rathi gang and some criminals of a Rohtak-based gang — are lodged in the Bhondsi jail now.
 
 Prime among them is gangster-turned- councillor Gujjar, who was arrested for plotting property dealer Raju Sethi’s murder. Sethi was killed on the night of November 10, 2015, at a petrol pump in Sector 5. Gujjar was arrested on December 4, 2015, and has been lodged in Bhondsi since then. Brahm Prakash alias Master, one of the Gadoli’s brothers who has been reportedly conspiring to eliminate Gujjar for long, is one of the latest additions. He was nabbed on January 18, 2017. The situation in the jail has become more volatile after the arrest of Delhi gangster Manjeet Mahal, who is allegedly involved in many heinous crimes. Manjeet and some of his associates are also lodged in the Bhondsi jail. 
 
 Sources said while Gujjar and Manjeet joined hands to eliminate their rivals, Gadoli gang and members of Kaushal gang made a group. Though several members of both gangs are lodged separately, possibility of a gang war cannot be ruled out inside the jail, according to police sources.
 
 “Ever since Gadoli was killed, members of Gadoli gang have been trying to avenge his death by killing Gujjar. Four shooters, who were arrested in Rohtak, had confessed that they wanted to kill Gujjar at his daughter wedding, but failed in their attempt and caught later,” a senior officer of the crime branch said, adding, “Bhondsi had been home to brawls among rivals in the past.” 
 
 “The situation in the jail is volatile as two rival gangs are lodged together. Also, criminals from Delhi are lodged there. We are seeking transfer of these criminal elements to prisons in Delhi and Rohtak,” said police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar.
 
 
