PATNA: As Bihar gears up for the first ‘dry Holi’,   seems to be the only option for the revellers, who used to play ‘kapda-faad’   and sing ‘Faguwa’ songs till last year. Though Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016 includes ‘bhang’ in the category of intoxicating drugs, it is being sold in the open market everywhere owing to the ‘divine sanction and religious elements’ associated with it.

 Sellers and consumers of bhang — the leaves of cannabis plant — claimed it grows in the wild and its consumption is considered auspicious on Holi and Mahashivaratri.
 
 “Bhang to jadi-buti hai. Shankar Bhagwan ko bhi chadhaya jata hai. Isme koi kharabi nahi hai; ulte puja-path mein use hota hai (Bhang is a herb and it is offered to Lord Shiva as well. There is no harm in its consumption. Besides, it is used in rituals as well),” said a bhang seller on Ashok Rajpath.
 
 Officials in excise department, however, claimed that strict action would be taken against those found selling bhang. Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016 states that the leaves, small stalks and flowering or fruiting tops of the Indian hemp plant (Cannabis Sativa L), including all forms known as bhang, siddhi or ganja, come under the category of ‘intoxicating drugs’. “Sale and consumption of bhang is prohibited in Bihar. Strict vigil would be kept on its sale during Holi,” assistant commissioner at excise department, Omprakash Mandal, told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 The excise department’s directive notwithstanding, the sellers of ‘bhang ka gola’ and ‘thandai’ in the city are gearing up to meet the increased demand owing to prohibition in the state. “We are anticipating an increased demand for ‘thandai’ this time and people have, in fact, started enquiring about its availability. Till last year, we used to sell at least 500 bottles of ‘thandai’ on Holi day,” said the owner of a popular betel shop in Dak Bungalow area.
 
 ‘Thandai’ or cannabis milkshake is made of nuts and spices like almonds, pistachios, poppy seeds, pepper, ginger and sugar or honey mixed with cannabis powder prepared from cannabis plant. Upon visits to a couple of shops in the city on Tuesday, it was found that ‘thandai’ would be sold at the rate of Rs 40-50 on Holi. 
 
 Bhang sellers say it is being “illegally” sold at the rate of Rs 100/kg, whereas the rate of ganja is Rs13,000 to 15,000/kg. Bhang sold in Patna mostly comes from places in north Bihar, including Siwan, Motihari, Saran and Gopalganj, among others, where it grows mostly as wild vegetation.
 
 Health experts, however, have cautioned the revellers against overdose of bhang. “THC, or tetrahydrocannabinol, the main psychoactive part of cannabis plant, attaches itself to the receptors in the human brain associated with thinking, memory, pleasure and coordination among other neurological functions. Overdose of cannabis affects the respiratory system leading to irregular heartbeat, hallucination and cardiac arrest. Consuming edible cannabis is, in fact, more dangerous as it metabolizes slowly and its effect is for a longer period. One should be rehydrated regularly, forced to vomit and taken to hospital in case of overdose,” said Dr Diwakar Tejaswi.
 
 Going back in time: Some of the mythological stories associated with bhang revolve around the well-known tale about the churning of ocean or ‘Samudra Manthan’ by the Gods and the demons to obtain ‘amrit’ (elixir). One version states that marijuana plants grew wherever the drops of this elixir fell on earth, while the other version states that Goddess Parvati made some bhang to cure the pain of Lord Shiva after he drank poison churned out of the ocean. Charas, ganja and bhang are obtained from different varieties of the same plant called ‘cannabis sativa’ with bhang leading to minimum psychological effect and charas leading to highest effect. Overdose of any of the three varieties can lead to panic attacks or ‘green out’.
 
