NEW DELHI: Probing a major corruption scandal in Puducherry, the   has booked two IAS officers —former health secretary of Puducherry Dr B R Babu and chairman of central admission committee   — for denying genuine candidates medical admissions and benefiting ineligible ones.

 The CBI has also booked 11 others, including government officials in the Union territory and directors of private medical colleges. The probe examined denial of admission to eligible students in post-graduate medical courses and allocating the seats at exorbitant “rates” to others.
 
 In its FIR registered on Monday, CBI named health director of Puducherry Dr Raman, CENTAC convenor V Govindraj, joint convenor K Pajaniradja and coordinator Jonathan Daniel other than Kumar and Babu who is now Pondicherry University registrar. Officials of three self-financing medical colleges and four deemed medical universities have also been booked.
 
 The anti-corruption agency claims 96 eligible students could not get admission because of the conspiracy and private colleges admitted ineligible students by taking fees ranging from Rs 40-50 lakh.
 
 “The accused officers, in connivance with private medical colleges/hospitals, cheated bona fide students who were issued provisional admission certificate during counselling by the   (CENTAC) but were later denied the seats they were allocated in the admission process in 2017.”
 
 “The accused conspired and cheated the bona fide students, by giving admission to ineligible candidates after collecting exorbitant admission fee”, it alleged. They failed to implement proper admission procedures and helped the management of medical colleges by abusing their official position.
 
 “Though CENTAC issued provisional admission certificates, no efforts were made by Kumar, Raman and Babu to verify the number of students who had not joined the courses. Also, vacancies arising due to refusal of seven medical colleges to admit students, who were issued provisional admission certificates by CENTAC, were not considered for the second round of counselling,” it alleged.
 
 While calculating the vacancy position, it was shown by the CENTAC counselling authorities — Govindaraj, Pajaniradja and Jonathan Daniel — on the CENTAC website that all the students who have issued with provisional admission certificates were admitted in the colleges, the FIR alleged. The fee committee had revised the charge substantially which could be charged from the government quota and management quota students by the three self-financing colleges, it alleged. 
 
 It said four deemed universities also refused to admit bona fide students in spite of orders of the Madras high court and admitted students not sponsored by CENTAC by taking huge fee.
 
 Medical colleges in Puducherry have 318 postgraduate and diploma seats in medicine, of which 162 are under government quota and the rest 156 are earmarked as management seats, the CBI FIR says. The process of counselling for 2017-18 was conducted by the CENTAC, under the guidance of the health ministry, Puducherry Government, it said.
 
 It said the first phase of counselling was conducted by CENTAC on May 4 and 11, and the second phase on May 19.
 
 
