NAGPUR: Breast cancer is the most commonly detected cancer in women. It is the second leading cause of death in women. Doctors worldwide are struggling to develop methods of early diagnosis as well as more specific and targeted treatment therapy.

 “One of the important evolving diagnosis method for breast cancer is   (DBT) called as X-ray guided system. With DBT it is possible to get a better and bigger picture of the cell masses and the also the distortions in the breast tissue. It is said to have higher breast cancer detection rate compared with common mammography technique,” said  , leading surgeon and chairman of South Wales  , Wales in UK.
 
 Dr Holt is in city for the installation of the new body of   (ASN) and to deliver a MASICON oration. “We follow the concept of less and less to know more and more for diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer. It means that we try to catch a lump in very early stage to prevent mastectomy,” he said.
 
 Another method also being used by Dr Holt for breast cancer detection is ‘gene expression profiling test’. It is an emerging technique for identifying the genes which can help in both disease prognosis and guiding therapy. It is used to identify patients who don’t require adjuvant chemotherapy or who require it. It allows to narrow down the number of patients requiring certain types of therapies including chemotherapy. The gene expression test is still in the trial stage. But it is one of the best methods for right diagnosis of the disease.
 
 “In UK we have ‘one stop breast clinics’ where under one roof all the specialists associated with diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer like pathologists, oncologists, radiotherapists and physicians etc are available. Team work is the key to better diagnosis and treatment and hence we are following this concept. Here we do all investigations in just 15 minutes. On treatment side the ten year survival rate in breast cancer is as high as 97.5% in UK. The incidence of breast cancer in UK is 1 in 12 women,” said Dr Holt.
 
 Talking of targeted therapies Dr Hold said that Herceptin was a drug, basically a monoclonal antibody. It is generally given along with chemotherapy and can be used for treatment of both early and late stage breast cancer patients.
 
 UK has a national screening programme in place. Women above the age of 50 years are expected to screen themselves once in every three years. In young women even MRI is used as a diagnostic tool to detect cancer. There are also tumour boards where team of doctors deal with the patients for more effective treatment.
 
