After TV actor Karan Wahi slamming the makers of  ,   has also taken a dig at the show in his   style.
 
  The actor posted a video on Instagram in whcih he is seen dressed up in his Chutki style talking to the shopkeeper who leaves from there. She then starts talking to Munna and asks him to utter three magical words. When he enquires about the same, Chutki asks him if he hasn't seen the show Pehredar Piya Ki yet.
  
  
 
  
  Gaurav posted the video on the social networking site and wrote, "Shopkeeper - Pehredar Piya Ki ! #gauravgera #pehredarpiyaki #shopkeeper #chutkipehredar #shopkeepersson."
  
  
  
  Pehradaar Piya Ki, a new show about a 9-year-old boy's unusual marriage with an 18-year-old woman, has been receiving a lot of flak right from the day its promo first aired. Karan Wahi, too, had taken to his Facebook account to criticize the nature of its plot.
  
  He had written on his Facebook page a few days back, "Dear producer and channel .. i understand we cant make shows like how i met ur mother and friends, and honestly i dont expect us to also, but for the love of god and for the reason we all got in this industry plz dont sell me stupidity in the name of content whch gives trp because honestly noone is watching this . Leave aside other people i think the fraternity only dsnt . I wish and pray well fr everyone whose a part of this show also but it wud be great if we started enjoying our work and not just working because we dont have an option... Not to sound arrogant but we can be better than this."
  
  Reacting to this, Suyyash Rai, who plays Kunwar Abhay Singh on the same show, opened up on his Instagram account and urged people not to jump to conclusions too soon.
  
  larifying his stance on the show, Suyyash wrote: Pehredaar Piya Ki ❤️ ❤️ @tejasswiprakash baby smile :) plz ❤️ Guys watever @imkaranwahi said its his pov no1 can question him neither me nor you guys. But this doesnt change the fact that WE the whole team of #PPK we love this show and we all have worked really hard for it and we still are andddd we will ❤️ our motive is to entertain you guys not promote child marriage or anything. This show is different , plz dont judge it and jump onto conclusions 🙏🏻 If a channel like @sonytvofficial has approved the show they must have thought something right ??? Even d producers must have thought a lot before making this and investing soo much money 🙏🏻 its my req to all,plz watch it first and then decide :) maybe m wrong MAYBE :) but lets wait n then decide. Love to all ❤️❤️ n thanku for sucha good response for the frst epi.
  
  Well, let's see what does Suyyash has to say this time.
