NEW DELHI: The government admitted in the   on Friday that the derailment of   train in Kanpur on November 20 last year, in which 148 persons were killed, was a suspected “sabotage” by terrorists, apart from two other incidents of derailment/blast in Kuneru and Ujjain this year.

 Around 148 persons were killed in November 20, 2016 derailment of Indore-Patna Express in Kanpur. 
 
 The NIA has not been able to find the culprits behind the derailment and is waiting for IIT’s report on the incident but officials suspect that the incident was the result of a conspiracy. 
 
 The agency is trying to ascertain whether the   Kanpur module led by Atif Muzaffar, which is involved in Ujjain train blast, is behind the Kanpur train derailment as well as the module members had done practice sabotaging tracks in Kanpur. 
 
 Subsequently, NIA is trying to find out the link between suspects involved in train derailment attempt in Ghorasahan (Bihar), who were hired by Pakistan’s spy agency ISI in Nepal and  .
 
 The railway ministry’s admission in   on Friday, while replying in writing to a query raised by Congress leader  , comes weeks after Prime Minister  , in his rally in Kanpur in February, stated that the incident was a conspiracy and the conspirators carried it our sitting across the border. The railway ministry was quiet so far about the suspected “sabotage”.
 
 In the derailment of   at Kuneru (Andhra Pradesh) railway station on January 21 this year, in which around 41 persons were killed, again NIA is waiting for the report of IIT Kanpur but close examination of tracks by investigators has suggested ‘sabotage’.
 
 The March 3, 2017 Ujjain train blast in Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train has already been linked to Kanpur module of ISIS inspired members, six of whom have already been arrested by NIA.
 
 The government also informed the Rajya Sabha on Friday that there is a “threat” to the Indian railway system including tracks and these intelligence inputs have been shared with local units.
 
 The railway ministry on Friday said that it has taken some measures to counter the nefarious designs of terrorists after derailments and blasts.
 
