BHOPAL:   (Nutan College) opened on Monday after winter break with a small section of  . However, a large number of students came dressed in   as the college authorities made the announcement for uniform on December 26. 

 Students said they will get the uniform in a couple of days. "The announcement was made just a few days ago. I went to get the new uniform stitched, but the shopkeeper told me that they will be able to provide it in the next couple of days," said a student without quoting her name. Another student said, "It would have been better if college had provided us the uniform on the campus only." Students were also not happy with the price of uniform. "Each uniform costs Rs 1000, which is somewhere an unnecessary burden," said another student. For facilitating uniform, the college has tied-up with couple of private shops. A student complained, "Why have only a couple of shops been chosen for selling the  ? It means these private shops will charge according to their whims and fancies. Moreover, the college will not have any control if they fleece us. The college should have asked these shops to open counters on the campus to sell uniforms."
 
 Students, however, were happy over the choice of colour of the uniform. "When I saw the uniform on mannequin it was not looking impressive, but after wearing it I found it good," said a student. Earlier, the final year students had raised objections over the timing of implementing the decision. They had alleged that they will be completing their degree in next three months and in this situation, it won't be possible for them to afford new uniform. In view of resentment among the final year students, the college authorities had exempted them.
 
 The college administration maintained that a formal uniform will bring about a semblance of equality among students who come from different strata of the society. "Our objective was to maintain the uniformity and students have accepted it, which is a good sign," said a senior faculty of the college on the condition of anonymity. Students said it is only the college administration that has noticed the rich-poor divide. Another student said, "We were never given any opportunity to present our views about uniform for students on the campus. They have decided it on their own and implemented it."
 
 Some students said the college should have thought about improving quality of education rather than forcing them to wear formal uniform. College principal   could not be contacted despite repeated efforts.
 
