MOUNT ABU: It was a wrong number that opened the right path for  , fondly called Sonu at the NABPNM Rehabilitation Centre for Blind in Mount Abu. Sonu's call went to Assam by mistake but it rang in the romance with Regina, who is also a visually impaired girl. After a brief courtship on social media and over phone, Sonu and Regina got married and last month in the Abode of Hills and began the new innings of their life.

 Even Bollywood would feel green to be deprived of such a romantic love tale that was born out of sheer serendipity! In celebration, cupid showered its arrows and Eros sang epithalamium.
 
 The heavens not only used the most modern technology to bring the two souls together -in this case mobile -but also the platform of social media, the Facebook. Truly, who would disagree, `Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing'. Right from Browning, to Emily Dickson, to Rossetti, to Keats, to Yeats, that also includes the bard of Strand ford on Avon, would have given a standing ovation, to these very special made-for each-other couple, performing at the Abode of Gods, a truly, beautiful, love song, composed in heaven and sung alo ud at Mount Abu, with the entire community. And their love did speak loud and clear as   would have desired ­ “How does Love speak?
 
 By the uneven heart-throbs, and the freak of bounding pulses that stand still and ache, While new emotions, like strange barges, make Along vein-channels their disturbing course; Still as the dawn, and with the dawn's swift force-- Thus doth Love speak“.
 
 Sonu is the eldest of the four visually challenged sons of  , a watch challenged sons of Hari Singh, a watchman in Palanpur. He studied both at Palanpur and   (BPA) in Ahmedabad. He has equipped himself with various trades -he is a skilled electrician, carpenter, scientific masseur and has Sangeet Visharad.
 
 But what came to his help for earning bread is music. He performs live at Silver Oak hotel in Mount Abu. His other three visually challenged brothers are a bundle of talent too.
 
