PUNE: With just about a fortnight left for developers to register ongoing projects with Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRERA), less than 5% of them have registered with the authority, according to MahaRERA officials.

 The   for registration of ongoing projects with   is July 31.
 
 With an estimated 10,000 plus ongoing projects in the state, only 499 applications have been filed with MahaRERA till July 13, out of which 295 projects have been issued certificates by the authority. Despite having a working RERA website and a regulator from May 1, 2017, the registrations have been low but RERA officials are hopeful that the registrations will be completed by month end, failing which developers will be slapped with 10% penalty. MahaRERA secretary Vasant Prabhu told TOI that the developers will have to register their projects or face huge penalty.
 
 “The developers are taking time to register but over the last three days we are receiving nearly 70-80 applications daily, instead of two-three applications earlier. The momentum is likely to increase in the next few days and we have all the technical services ready to tackle excess applications,’’ stated Prabhu.
 
 He further added that if the builders have their documents in place, the process of registration should not take more than an hour. 
 
 Chairman and regulator MahaRERA   had earlier stated that developers were getting used to coming in public domain and having all their documents uploaded, so it was bound to take time.
 
 CREDAI Maharashtra president Shantilal Kataria told TOI that he was optimistic that all CREDAI members will register before the deadline.
 
  “There were some issues regarding some clarifications which were being issued by RERA from time to time. They wanted to upload a document which was foolproof, which was taking time. However, I am confident that they would do it before the deadline,’’ said Kataria who has given his email id to developers to write to him in case of any issue. 
 
 He, however, said that the last few days will see a scale up of registrations as he estimates that there are about only 3,000-5,000 ongoing projects as against RERA figures of about 10,000. Beyond the period of 90 days’ window given to developers, any person can inform RERA on a dedicated email id about an unregistered project. 
 
  representatives have been reaching out to consumers to check whether the projects they are investing in are being registered. 
 
 “Unless the project is registered under RERA, one cannot file any complaint in case of any discrepancy. So it is essential that the developers register themselves with RERA,” Pune Grahak Manch member Vijay Sagar said.
 
