LUCKNOW: National president of the Samajwadi Party chief minister   on Tuesday blamed media once again for its biased coverage in elections and blamed them squarely for adopting a corrupt practice. The occasion was launch of a series of books including on the life and times and speeches of former chief minister, Mulayam Singh Yadav in the state Assembly by the chief minister in presence of the Speaker Mata Prasad Pandey at the central hall of the Assembly in Lucknow.

 A day earlier, the chief minister was critical of the media for their “unfair” reporting during the election campaign. “We did not get live coverage while others (referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and   leaders) got more than required space on TV channels. It was a type of corruption” lamented the chief minister .
 
 The chief minister regretted “some people” projected themselves as poor in media eye by feeding grass to cows. Akhilesh Yadav said, “He (prime minister) has no idea of how to feed the cows. In rural areas grass is cut in before it is mixed with fodder to feed the animals. The prime minister does not know because he has never lived in village and only wants photographs showing him feeding cows to appear. We have lived among the farmers and the poor, we know how to feed the cows.” 
 
 Speaking about the books, the chief minister praised principal secretary of UP Assembly Pradip Dubey for producing such marvellous books which could be an asset for politicians as well as social scientists and students. He said he had not attended the UP Assembly when Mulayam Singh was chief minister but had read his speeches which motivated him to do a lot for the poor, vulnerable and the farmers.
 
 The chief minister said it was Netaji’s speech on the issue of lack of housing for the poor that started free housing schemes for the poor in his regime. Akhilesh also released a book on the life and journey in politics of the Speaker Mata Prasad Pandey.
 
 Pradip Dubey said he had researched the changing political trends in the nation and in UP particularly. “Politics changed from being elitist in the British period to pro-poor post Independence as democracy evolved,” said Dubey, adding that one of the books launched on the emergence of coalition governments in the state is an outcome of this evolution.
 
 
