KOLKATA: Afcons, the project contractor that recently completed the boring of two tunnels under the Hooghly for the East-West   corridor, has threatened to walk out of another Metro project after being held up by 11 shops that are encroaching on the land earmarked for the  . If the contractor quits the project at this juncture, the Metro line will suffer huge cost and time overrun.

 The shop owners of Comint Park Natun Bazar have held the Rs 3,951-crore project to ransom for two months now, refusing to allow the company to launch the 28-metre viaduct to bridge two piers. This is the crucial section from where the Metro corridor moves from E M Bypass towards New Garia to merge with North-South Metro at Kabi Subhas station. 
 
 A desperate Rail Vikash Nigam Limited (RVNL), the executing agency of the project, has written to the state government and Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), requesting their intervention to end the impasse. “The occupants are on the vested land that was owned by the irrigation department. It was allocated to the project by the state government. If the shop owners need rehabilitation, it is between the state government and them,” an RVNL official said, adding that Afcons personnel were even manhandled by the occupants while attempting to carry out construction work. The official also expressed concern over safety, pointing to a segment launching machine that was dangerously suspended on pier no. 20.
 
 KMC commissioner Khalil Ahmed refused to comment, pointing out he had received no letter from RNVL yet. 
 
 The project has already suffered time and cost-overrun due to land issues. Any further delay will adversely affect the project that will complement the North-South Metro by completing the circle.
 
 TOI visited Comint Park Natun Bazar and spoke to the ‘illegal occupants’ who had stalled the project. “We are on the vested land. So are many other occupants. We possess trade licence and electricity bill. Why have you issued them to us if we are illegal?” questioned Tapas Sen, one of the shopowners.
 
 He, however, denied the manhandling of Afcons personnel. “They are too mighty to be harmed by us. We only want rehabilitation. We have been running shops for 13-14 years. Stalling the project is not our intent. Our appeal is to provide alternative space so that we can sustain our livelihood,” said Tuhin Ganguly, a sweet shopowner.
 
 Local councillor (ward 109) Ananya Banerjee said, “These people are illegal occupants. They have to move out. We will see whether they can be rehabilitated in the stalls being developed by KMDA along E M Bypass. Metro is a high-priority project and we all want to cooperate with RVNL.”
 
