KOLKATA: If you thought only international flights operated late at night from Kolkata, it's time for a reality check. A string of   are now either taking off or landing past midnight, ferrying bleary-eyed passengers to a host of Indian cities, both metros and non-metros.

 "  on the domestic sector are a fairly recent phenomenon. With demand for air travel high and day-time slots choked in metros, airlines are scheduling flights at odd hours to meet the connectivity requirement.Passengers who want to return after a day's business in another city prefer the flights," said an airline official. Late night flights are called `red-eye' as travellers usually suffer from puffy eyes due to lack of sleep.
 
 Another reason for scheduling the flights is the night parking of aircraft in Kolkata and some non-metros. With no parking slots in Mumbai or Delhi, airlines are forced to park the aircraft in other cities and consequently some of the late night flights.
 
 Jet Airways is the latest to jump on the bandwagon with a flight between Kolkata and Pune that reaches Pune after midnight. The return flight takes off from Pune at 3.55am to reach Kolkata at 6.40am. The airline reasons that if someone from Pune has a day's work in Kolkata, the flight is perfect as it gives the traveller an entire day . Jet Airways has a similar flight to Mumbai that departs Kolkata at 1.45am and reaches Mumbai at 4.35am. According to the airline, it is handy for international travellers who have early morning flights out of Mumbai.
 
 Vistara has a flight from Kolkata to Pune that takes off at 2am and reaches Pune at 4.40am. Go Air, too, has a Mumbai-bound flight that takes off from Kolkata at 11.30pm and reaches the destination at 2.15am. AirAsia India has a flight to Delhi that takes off at 11.30pm to reach the Capital at 1.40am. AirAsia India also has a flight from Bhubaneswar that lands in the city at 1.15am.
 
 Anil Punjabi, eastern India chairman of Travel Agents' Federation of India, said, "Low-fare, late-night flights to Pune will have good takers from the student community because train travel is time-consuming."
 
