Gurgaon-based rally driver   is preparing for her next challenge - the prestigious   rally, considered to be one of the Triple Crown titles in Indian rallying. But Bani’s participation in the rally, which begins Saturday, will be a bit more special than the previous years because this year, her partner and navigator in the journey will be her 18-year-old son Arjun. Bani and Arjun will be the first-ever mother and son pair to participate in the Dakshin Dare, and at 18 years and 4 months, Arjun is also the youngest ever participant in the rally.

  Bani tells us, "It's the first time that a mother-son combination will participate in the Dakshin Dare. There have been brothers and father-son pairings, but this is totally unprecedented."
 
 
  
  
 
  Bani is regarded as the fastest woman rally driver in India, having won prestigious titles like the Asia Cup (IRC Championships) in the women's category, and beating several male competitors in prestigious races like Raid de   and Speed Sprint. She was 9th overall and second in last year's edition of the Dakshin Dare. However, she feels that Arjun has the potential to surpass her achievements. "He is much better than me," she says, "Of course, he is young right now and has a lot to learn. Right now, objectively speaking I would say that on a scale of 1-10, he is at 7. But he has it in him to be a 10."
 
  As for Arjun, he is simply excited about the prospect of participating in such a prestigious event so early in his life. He says, "It's my first time and I’m expecting tough competition. I’ll learn new things from other experienced drivers." The 18-year-old recently completed his schooling from Delhi Public School, Sonepat, and is currently looking to start college soon. "I have made it to some good universities like Amity and Manipal, but I’m waiting for the next cut-off of   and hoping I get a decent college there," he tells us.
 
  The Dakshin Dare is considered one of the three biggest rally events in the country, alongside the Raid De Himalayas and the Desert Storm. The 2200-km rally will see hundreds of participants drive from Bengaluru to Pune over six days in what is considered to be a tough test of speed, driving skill, and stamina. Talking about her chances with an inexperienced navigator this time, Bani says, "We definitely hope to beat competition. Arjun has participated in circuit races before but rallying is new for him. Let's see where it takes us. But going by how he drives and how he picks up, we will aim for a high position."
 
 
