PANCHKULA: Owing to alleged carelessness of the   power department, a six-year-old kid lost his life after he got   by a live wire hanging around a transformer in Sector 20 here. The kid, who was identified as   Prasad, lives near Ashiana Colony, Sector 20, is a grandson of former municipal corporation councillor  . Family members of the victim said that the incident occurred at around 11am when Vivek was playing on the road in the rain. While doing so he reached near the transformer installed outside their house and on touching the live wire fell down on the road.

 “When our neighbour saw Vivek lying on the road, he came to pick him up but got a shock as soon as he tried to do so. He told family members of Vivek that the kid got electrocuted and was lying near the transformer,” father of the kid Vijender Prasad said. He further said that on getting the information he rushed towards his son and when he was about to pick him up, he also received a shock but in his second attempt managed to pick him up and pull himself away from the transformer.
 
 Family members immediately called up the ambulance and rushed towards the general hospital, Sector 6, but Vivek took his last breath in the ambulance. The victim has an elder sister.
 
 Gautam said that, “A naked electricity wire of the transformer was touching the ground and the electricity was flowing into the ground, which led to the incident. We have given a complaint to the Sector 20 police station and have asked them to register a case against the power department.”
 
 A case against unknown person under death caused due to negligence has been registered against the power department of Panchkula in Sector 20 police station and cops started the investigation in the case.
 
 
 
 
 June 17: Due to negligence of Panchkula Municipal Corporation, a 16-year-old boy was electrocuted from a street pole located on the separating road of Sectors 11/14. The cops booked the MC for the death of the kid.
 
 June 9: Sector 20 police station booked the MC for causing death due to negligence of two youths, who died after falling off their motorbike due to potholes on a road.
 
