Jeetu Verma, best remembered for his villainous turn as Jojo in the 1998 Abbas Mastan actioner 'Soldier', featuring Bobby Deol in the lead, has been admitted to an eye hospital in Wadala after being attacked en route to Jaipur from Mount Abu. His older brother,  , the action director of films like 'Madras Café', 'Airlift', 'Neerja' and 'Mirzya', told Mirror, that Jeetu was on his way to his home town in Jaipur to attend a function. "There is a 40-km patch of forest area near  , which is en route. It was broad daylight and Jeetu was sitting next to the driver in the front seat. Suddenly, some locals started pelting their car. The driver picked up speed but the stones kept coming. One hit the windshield and it cracked. Jeetu's eye was hit and bleeding profusely even as the driver raced away," he narrates. 

 The 49-year-old actor-businessman, who owns over a dozen horses, runs a training academy for   and coaches Bollywood actors for riding sequences in their films (he's recently trained 
  for 'Rangoon' besides 
  and 
  for their upcoming film 'Raabta'), was carried out of the car when it stopped at a toll naka on the outskirts of the forest where the cops were interrogating two other people whose cars had also been attacked that same day. Jeetu was then rushed to Udaipur airport and flown down to Mumbai.
 
 "Meanwhile, the police assessed the vehicle and also recovered the stones that had cracked the glass and fallen into the car. But there needs to be more security. When such occurrences are happening in the region on a daily basis, it is important that stringent measures be taken immediately," Manohar said, adding, "There was an attack on Sanjay Leela Bhansali in the same region recently (the National award-winning filmmaker was attacked by members of the Karni Sena on the sets of his upcoming historical-drama 'Padmavati' in Jaipur), for very different reasons, but security forces and the police officers were still incompetent. Something needs to be done. Rajasthan cannot become this unsafe!" 
 
 Two days after the incident, Dr S Natarajan operated on Jeetu and confirmed that he had suffered a fractured eyebrow, had required 10 stitches and had lost retinal function. He was unconscious till Friday evening. The family still doesn't know whether he will regain sight in his right eye. "Luckily, in these trying times we have received support from Jeetu's close friend (actor-producer-businessman)  ," Jeetu's wife Kusum told Mirror.
 
 "Sunielji arranged for Jeetu to be transported and admitted to this hospital the moment he landed in Mumbai. Now, we hope that he recovers soon and other travelers don't suffer such horrors in the future."
 
  
  
 
