CHENNAI: Affordable housing projects for the middle and lower income groups are on a growth curve in 2017. There is huge demand in both the segments, says Anarock Property Consultants in a report.

 A 39% higher allocation for affordable housing by the government – compared to 2016-2017 – under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), extension of credit linked subsidy to loans up to Rs 12 lakh and granting of infrastructure status to the segment have helped the sector in a considerable way, said Anarock CEO Ashwinder Raj Singh. “This translates into easy financial credit for builders and makes it a lucrative segment for them to invest in,” said Singh.
 
 Centre, with a view to providing housing for all by 2022, has been pushing   with sops in the last three budgets. “While this objective seemed a little fabulous to begin with, we are actually seeing some serious action on the ground as a result of this policy directive,” said Singh. Government policies like Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act have infused fresh buyer confidence into the real estate sector, bringing fence-sitting buyers onto the market, he said.
 
 ICRA, a domestic rating agency, had projected recently that affordable housing segment was set to grow at more than 30% in the medium term and would be the key growth driver for the Indian mortgage finance market.
 
 “It is the infrastructure status for the segment and 100% income tax break that drives developers into affordable housing segment,” said city-based   MD P Suresh. “We ventured into it way back in 2010 as it is a volumes game. About 80% of the apartments sold in the country are in this segment. Our journey so far was without any special support from any quarter. With government support, we should do better,” said Suresh who sells close to 1,000 units per year.
 
 Affordable housing has been long craving for attention. Real estate developers never looked at the segment as a respectable business option, felt Anuj Puri, Anarock chairman. “Till 2007, no developer was interested in affordable housing segment in the country. Many got into it in 2008 for survival during the sub-prime lending crisis.
 
  But when markets revived in 2009, most of them dropped it like hot potatoes. You can’t go in and out. Developers have to change their mindset. Very few like Ashiana Housing, Vastushodh, Arun Excello and Provident stayed put in the segment even after markets revived,” said Puri. Chennai-based BBCL developers MD V Ananth said that encouraged by the government policies, his firm was making forays into the affordable housing segment.
 
 One needs an institutional and industrial mindset to drive budget housing, said Puri. “Standardisation is key to success in a volumes game. Developers should look at the segment as a conveyor belt model. Ideally, budget housing should be a separate company altogether, with a different work culture because every penny counts in such projects,” said Puri.
 
