CHENNAI: Wickets continue to fall in the state bureaucracy as 
  . On Monday it was the turn of officer on special duty Santha Sheela Nair, a retired IAS officer — who was in charge of monitoring implementation of   — to put in her papers.

 There are tremors in state police too. Inspector general of police in the state intelligence, K N Sathiyamoorthy is not attending duty from Saturday. Apparently, he was told to go on leave.
 
 Only on Friday had the adviser to government   quit. On the same day, secretaries to the CM, K N Venkataramanan and A Ramalingam were shown the door.
 
 Jayalalithaa had handpicked Santha, former vice-chairman of the state planning commission, to oversee the special programme implementation of the AIADMK government. “She has quit,” said a senior government official, seeking anonymity. She was one of the bureaucrats, who enjoyed a great camaraderie with the former CM, during her three tenures. A week after Santha’s five year term ended in the planning commission in May last, Jayalalithaa invited her to Poes Garden residence and offered her the new post. When asked about her resignation, Santha refused to comment.
 
 Sathiyamoorthy’s leave since Saturday last has set tongues wagging about the possibility of him getting sidelined. IG C Eswaramoorthy, who handles the internal security wing, has been given additional charge of intelligence. Sathiyamoorthy has reportedly informed his colleagues that he was going on leave for 10 days. “Obviously, his leave cannot be a routine affair as it has come at a time when there is a change of guard at the Fort St George. IG intelligence has to be present on such occasions. If he is not there, it is just that the new dispensation does not want him to be there,” said a senior official.
 
 Meanwhile, corridors of power are abuzz with talks of Jayalalithaa’s loyalists being targeted. Many IAS and IPS officers in the headquarters and elsewhere in the state are getting ready for transfers. A few police officers are also dropping in at Poes Garden in what could be an attempt to show off their loyalty to the new leadership.
 
