AMRITSAR: Three incidents of attacks on Sikhs in California in a span of 10 days, which left two Sikhs dead, has left the Sikh American community worried and shaken. In the first incident on July 18, a Sikh American woman Simranjit Grewal was driving to work when suddenly an unknown assailant threw a stone at her car, which shattered the wind-shield on the passenger side. The assaulter reportedly shouted “Go back to your country”.

 On July 23,   Singh (68) was seen leaving his home in Fresno, California. When he didn’t return in the evening, his family released a missing person notice. He was later found dead in a canal with injuries. In the third incident on the night of July 25, Simranjit Singh (20) was shot dead while working at a gas station near Sacramento in California. Before the attack was carried out on Simranjit, his colleague faced verbal and physical attack by a group of men.
 
 “These attacks are inexcusable and we offer our deepest sympathies and condolences to the families of Subag and Simranjit,” said Sikh American Legal Defence and Education Fund (SALDEF) executive director Baldev Singh while talking to TOI on Saturday. He said that they had called upon local and federal law enforcement agencies to thoroughly investigate these crimes and classify them as hate incidents if that was the motive.
 
 Reacting to the incidents, a prominent Sikh American right activist Rajwant Singh said that, “It is sad that as we are preparing ourselves for the fifth anniversary of shooting at a Sikh gurdwara in Wisconsin, another incident has shocked the community in Fresno and across the nation. We are praying for the family while waiting for more facts to come out. It is extremely puzzling and outrageous that an elderly man would face such a situation.”
 
 Baldev further said that at this point in both investigations in which the two Sikhs were killed, it was unclear if either of the crimes were racially motivated. He said that, “We are working with both local and federal laws enforcement authorities to ensure that these murders are thoroughly investigated and that the local jurisdictions are treating the cases with utmost importance.” The SALDEF executive director stated that they were also in contact with the local field office of the FBI, the department of justice, community relations service and the office of US attorney. Besides, he said that they had asked all Sikh Americans to remain vigilant. 
 
