MUMBAI: At a time when   banks in India need about Rs 2 lakh crore for recapitalisation to tackle rising nonperforming assets (NPAs),   alone may sell shares worth a similar amount. This is because the RBI has asked promoters   and family to cut their stake from the current level of 32% in the country's third largest private sector lender to 15% by March 2020.

 The Rs 2-lakh-crore amount is more than the current market cap of  , which is the third largest bank in the country after   and   respectively . It is also more than the market cap of eight top PSU banks (except SBI) put together.
 
 A report by proxy advisory firm SES pointed out that given the situation at Kotak Bank, it's high time the banking regula tor looks at ownership structure in private banks. Otherwise, like ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank, foreign funds will hold a majority in Kotak Bank also.
 
 If the bank issues shares to dilute the promoters' stake to the level stipulated by the RBI, it would need to issue about 210 crore shares over the next three years, but the same should be done in tranches. The report said that if the bank increases the share price by 5% in each tranche it sells, the total funds required would be about Rs 2.20 lakh crore.
 
 “After such an issue, the bank will have the highest net worth in the country's banking system and will lose its sheen unless it grows by leaps and bounds and overtakes leaders like SBI and HDFC Bank in terms of business, which does not appear to be a practical target,“ it noted. “Therefore, such a step will cause performance metrics to become weak and at the end not only both investors and promoters will lose, but all stakeholders will lose as the bank will not be the same as it is today ,“ it said.
 
 The report also pointed out that it's only the foreign funds that can have the money power to buy such large chunks of shares and, hence, their share in Kotak Bank is sure to rise. Currently , foreign funds hold 42.1% in HDFC Bank, while they hold nearly 47% in ICICI Bank and almost 39% in Kotak Bank.
 
