AURANGABAD: The Supreme Court has acquitted a former corporator of the city who was accused of   a decade ago. 

 The case was registered at Vaijapur in the jurisdiction of Aurangabad rural police. The incident happened on July 31, 2007. The deceased, identified as Kisansingh Dumale who was working as a security guard at Shirdi, and his wife Ranjana reached Amanatpurwadi of Vaijapur tehsil for paying obeisance to the local deity during the fair there.
 
 Later, Dumale met the four accused identified as then corporator Kanwarsingh Bainade, his kin Sachin Bainade and two friends Jeevan Dhobal and Sachin Tatu.
 
 But Dumale did not return home till late evening and his brother Premsingh started searching for him. He found that Dumale was allegedly assaulted by the accused and succumbed to the injuries.
 
 Police found that Dumale was admitted to the Lasur station hospital by the accused and he was declared brought dead.
 
 Soon, Ranjana lodged a complaint stating that her husband has been murdered for not voting for Bainade’s wife in the zilla parishad elections in March 2007.
 
 Four persons were arrested in connection with the case. Total 15 witnesses were testified before the lower court, following which the four were convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for life in 2010.
 
 The accused challenged the lower court’s order before the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court, which upheld the life sentence granted to Bainade, but acquitted the other three in 2012.
 
 While acquitting the three accused, high court division bench comprising Justice PV Hardas and AV Potdar discarded the testimony of two crucial eyewitnesses, both uncles of the deceased.
 
 Challenging the high court’s decision, Bainade, the state as well as the wife of the deceased approached the Supreme Court.
 
 Lawyer Nilesh Ghanekar, who represented Bainade in the case, said, “The high court disbelieved the motive of murder, as it was brought on record that the deceased was not a voter in the district. His name was in the voter list of Ahmednagar district. 
 
 Ghanekar pointed out that two uncles of the deceased -- Bhaulal Meher, a farmer by profession, and Bhagchand Rajput, an army man -- were taken on record by police as key witnesses 25 days after the murder. But, police failed to explain the delay in recording the statements of the key witnesses.
 
 Supreme Court division bench comprising justice   and Justice   cited that the very foundation of the case is based on the eyewitnesses’ accounts, which have been discarded by the high court.
 
 According to Ghanekar, the apex court said on February 2 that, “After going through the material on record, in particular the eyewitnesses’ accounts, in our considered opinion this evidence cannot stand in the way to acquit the appellant (Bainade) in this appeal. The very foundation of the case as relied upon by the prosecution has failed.”
 
 The evidence that has been placed before the court and the documents show that none of the documents or evidence can go against the appellant. Chain of circumstances having already broken, we do not find any case has been made out against any appellant, the court said. 
 
 Lawyer Sudhanshu Choudhari contested the case in the Supreme Court on behalf of the three accused, who were acquitted by the high court. 
 
