TRICHY: The death of a 32-year-old woman due to suspected   has set alarm bells ringing for the district administration to wake up from its slumber and control the spread of the fever, which has become endemic to Trichy, particularly in the   of the district.

 J Renganayagi, 32, a   in Trichy and a mother of two, died at a private hospital in Trichy on Thursday afternoon after battling for four days. The woman, who was suffering from fever since Monday, developed symptoms of dengue and was admitted to a private hospital in Trichy. Family members said she contracted the fever after visiting her maternal house at   in Manapparai last week. It may be recalled that Manapparai has become the hotbed of fever in the past few months. The medical camps conducted by the public health department have failed to control the incidence of fever in the area. 
 
 Meanwhile, health department officials have blamed the municipal administration for not providing regular supply of water, thus forcing people to store drinking water in which the dengue-causing Aedes mosquito breeds. A dengue epidemic had broken out in Trichy in 2012. The fever has become endemic to the district in the past five years. 
 
 “Water scarcity is the main reason for the outbreak of fever. Several cases tested positive for dengue. Earlier, it occurred seasonally but nowadays the fever affects people all through the year irrespective of the season making it endemic to Trichy,” said a health department official on condition of anonymity.
 
 In July itself, the district has witnessed 18 cases of dengue positive cases. The Trichy corporation area recorded eight cases , while the rural areas reported nine cases of dengue. A case of dengue was recorded in Trichy municipality area.
 
 Officials said the present strain of virus is so virulent that the patient collapses within five days. The treatment at private hospitals was also another reason for the mortality in several cases, they said.
 
 The district administration and the public health department has appealed to people to admit patients to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) where the patients will be treated in the isolation ward. 
 
