Ranchi: Police have confirmed the   of Vikas Lakra (27) as an instance of suicide after verifying the CCTV footages of   police station. Lakra was found dead hanging from the iron gate of the lock-up he was detained at in Lalpur police station on Friday morning, within few hours of being arrested on charges of alleged theft.

 Senior SP Kuldeep Dwivedi said that the footages were seized immediately and after verifying it was found that Vikas used a torn part of the blanket to hang himself. Both the lock-up at Lalpur police station are under surveillance of CCTV cameras.
 
 Though police did not release copies of the footage, they showed it to family members of the deceased. In the footage Vikas was seen tearing a long piece of the blanket and using it as a rope to hang himself. Police sources said that he made two attempts to tie a proper knot for hanging.
 
 CPI(ML) on Saturday demanded judicial probe into the death of Vikas. The party’s district general secretary, Bhuneshwar Kevat said that the matter was suspicious and the role of police in torture of the deceased cannot be ruled out. 
 
 “Our members met the family and were convinced that it was a murder in cold blood as he never had any criminal antecedents,” Kevat said. The party has also demanded a compensation of Rs 5 lakh for the family members and action under Section 302 of IPC against the erring police personnel.
 
 The state unit of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties ( ) has also decided to probe the incident and criticised police for violating the DK Basu guidelines in execution of arrests. 
 
 “The family members are supposed to be informed about the arrest of a person and there must be a witness when a person is being taken into custody,” said AK Singh, PUCL state secretary.
 
  He pointed out that despite being a ‘model police station’ Lalpur has not displayed the ‘rights of an arrestee’ as is mandated by the Supreme Court. 
 
 “In fact most of police stations in the state have not displayed the ‘rights of an arrestee’ as is mandated in the DK Basu guidelines for prevention of violation of Human rights,” he said. 
 
 
