New Delhi: Madhuri Rawat Varshney, former president of  , an association of residents’ welfare associations of Dwarka, is busy preparing to campaign in her debut political contest as the Aam Aadmi Party candidate from Dwarka-A for the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. Like Varshney, for the first time a considerable number of civil society members will test the political waters on April 23.

 “Civic services are deteriorating by the day with the current set of elected representatives unable to address our concerns,” said Varshney, explaining why she was making a foray into politics. “We know the problems better so we should become part of the system.” It is to find this space in the decision-making set-up that social activists and   are on the stump.
 
 Sudha Sinha, an RWA member of a Dwarka society who contested the municipal bypolls last year as a Congress candidate, echoed Varshney whom she hopes to take on. “It will help if an RWA member is part of the governance system,” she opined. Till recently, civil society members stayed away from active politics due to the difficulty of fitting into the political party system. “Some RWA me mbers did join traditional political parties, but they couldn’t make a mark as these parties have a very different style of working,” said an RWA member.
 
 Also there is a feeling that RWAs should not align with parties. “RWAs should be apolitical and help the elected representative to identify the right projects while demanding transparency and accountability in governance,” said Ashutosh Dikshit, CEO, United Residents Joint Action, an RWA grouping.
 
 While it is difficult to get the nomination of national parties, these freshly minted aspirants are banking on new formations like AAP and Swaraj India and regional parties like JD(U) to field them. Manvindra Chauhan (Manav), member of Pandav Nagar RWA, and Maheshwar Dutt, president of GTB Enclave RWA, both feel a new party connects better with the voters. Both are Swaraj India’s candidates from their respective areas. “It was Swaraj India that stood by Pandav Nagar in the fight to save homes from being demolished when NH-24 was expanded. The Delhi government otherwise doesn’t have a plan for rehabilitating the affected families,” said Chauhan.
 
 This year, with delimitation changing the dynamics of the wards, even the major parties are considering civil society members as candidates. Bhanu Singh Bishnoi, general secretary of Federation of RWAs of Vasant Kunj, and Vedpal, president of  , are seeking tickets from   and Congress, respectively. “After delimitation, a large percentage of voters are from an area where I worked to save the green cover and curb noise pollution,” said Vedpal, on why he could be a winner.
 
 While RWAs welcome the decision taken by members to contest elections, a majority are unlikely to openly pledge their support to them.
 
  “It’s better that way because this will prevent the ruling party in the corporations or Delhi government from ignoring our concerns,” said Rejimon CK, member of Dwarka Forum.
 
 
