NAGPUR: The news of some stone idols and exotic   has dragged the prestigious organization in the city once again into controversy. A marble idol of Shiva and five stone idols of 1½ ft, which were placed near a well located close to the open air theatre of the centre, have been reported as missing. 

 SCZCC has security guards all across entrance and inside the campus which make the theft by an outsider improbable. No FIR has been filed so far by the centre but sources say that an inquiry has been instituted.
 
 Sources at the centre and some media reports suggest that  , the previous director of the centre who relinquished charge in February, has allegedly walked away with the missing items. “It does not seem that the articles have gone missing recently. I will have to check the inventory first to know for certain,” said Sajith EN, the officiating director of the centre.
 
 But Sajith says that the 3ft tall marble Shivling reported as missing was a personal property of Kumar. “I had got them made in Jabalpur by an artisan and have brought them back with me,” Kumar told TOI.
 
 The former director said that the idols placed around the well and on the boundary of the central lawn may have loosened from their pedestal and “must be lying around on the premises”. “They were made from rough stone by local artists,” added Kumar.
 
 The 25-year-old cultural centre was having a successful run for the past six years as two of its directors IPS officer   and Piush Kumar had initiated a number of activities which added value to the centre. About a full-time director at SCZCC, Sajith said, “It is a priority. Out of the 7 cultural centres only three have a full time director of which one would be ending his term next month. The ministry will have to take a decision on new appointments soon.”
 
 The SCZCC is a storehouse of priceless artefacts and paintings which have been especially crafted for the centre by master craftsmen and painters during the innumerable workshops it organizes. There had been reports previously also of some paintings missing from the Raja   art gallery administered by the cultural centre. A CBI inquiry was held in the matter too.
 
