SRIKAKULAM: As summer approaches, tribals in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram are gearing up to deal with intruding elephants who come to hamlets in search of water. 

 Half of the around 800 water bodies covering 1,000 villages under the Integrated Tribal Develop Authority (ITDA) of   in Srikaulam have dried up even before summer. Sources said Sambam, Kuddapalli, Gaoidi, Setammapeta and Dhonubai villages are almost dry now. 
 
 Small lakes and village ponds are water sources in these areas for not only human beings but also animals. 
 
 A herd of 11 pachyderms came to Srikakulam forests from Lakeri forest in Orissa in 2007. Only four of them are now living and damaging crops like banana and sugarcane, said S Kumar, a farmer of Setammapeta.
 
 These elephants have started entering villages for the water and food. Each   drinks 200 to 600 litres of water a day on an average. They have caused destruction in fields at Kotturu mandal in the past three months. They damaged maize crop in   last Saturday. At present, they are moving along the Vamsadhara river in the mandal. 
 
 Additional principal conservator of forests,  , N Prateep Kumar told TOI that in summers the forest department provides water to the animals in the sanctuaries and forest areas. “Luckily, there was no problem with the elephants last summer. In 2015, we were forced to tranquilize one of the two male elephants in Vizianagaram district. Apart from these, there are four female elephants settled in Srikakulam forests,” he said. 
 
 A male elephant died after being electrocuted and the other one panicked and wreaked havoc in the nearby villages. He was caught and brought to Visakha Zoo. 
 
 The forest officer said his department had brought an expert from   and provided training to the tribals on how to drive away elephants if they come close to the villages. In this technique, chilly powder is stuffed into gunny bags with available local material. The smell of the chillies drives away elephants. Sufficient quantity of the chilly powder was procured by the forest department. Burning fire crackers and beating drums are not the correct procedure to drive away elephants. They get disturbed and turn violent at the sound of drums. 
 
