NOIDA: The exit of   from Congress to BJP signifies the loss of a poster-face that was at the forefront of the farmer’s movement against land acquisition, way back 2008 onwards. However, interestingly, his exit from Congress to BJP may not imply a conversion of votes. While Thakur explains his joining the BJP may add strength to the farmer’s causes; the farmers groups express, he would hardly be able to dip into the farmer’s votes.

 Known mostly in the local circles for taking Rahul Gandhi on his motorcycle for rural campaigns in the region in 2012, Thakur was thought to be close to Gandhi and to have influenced him to press for the farmers’ cause.
 
 “I have been pushed into shifting to BJP by the farmer community itself,” claimed Thakur. He said he was tired of the neglect of Congress top brass in the matters of the grassroots. “It is true that I have been at the forefront of campaigning for farmers’ causes for so long, but I think I would be able to do more justice to their causes from the BJP platform,” Thakur told TOI over phone from Lucknow after announcing his changeover to BJP.
 
 However, the farmers group active in the districts have strongly reacted to Thakur’s change-over. “It is surprising that someone who has been so close to our movement and who we have backed for so long has now shifted away from congress. If he is thinking that he would be able to dip into the farmer votes in Jewar, he is wrong because the farmers are badly hit by the demonetisation policy of BJP and anyway the BJP government has been anti-farmer in its actions,” Dushyant Nagar, convenor, Kisan Sangharsh Samiti told TOI.
 
 “Maximum voters in Jewar are farmers and their families, we do not think the shift of Thakur to BJP will affect the farmer voters. It is indeed a matter of surprise for a man who has thrived and grown in Congress to desert the party so close to the election. But we do not anticipate any farmer votes or minority votes to be diverted to him because a the end of the day, people vote on grounds of parties and their work on ground and not for figureheads. The maximum support that the farmers of Noida, Jewar and Dadri have ever received were from the Congress. Thakur has been at the centre of many farmer movements against land acquisition,” Mahender Nagar, district president, Congress, said.
 
 Meanwhile an announcement on Congress candidates in Noida, Jewar and Dadri seats for the are still put on hold by party top brass and final candidates are expected to be announced by Jan 10.
 
