 was the most popular Tamil song in the recent times and it took social media by storm. Deepak, one of the singers of the peppy number, which has received 11M views on YouTube so far, is over the moon for thumping response the song has received. The young and ambitious vocalist, who terms the response for the song as “unimaginable”, says this has been the biggest hit in his career till date. Quite excited and humbled with the kind of appreciation he has been getting on a daily basis, Deepak attributes this success to  , lyricist Vivek and his co-singers. The microbiologist-turned-singer talks in detail about his career, the songs he considers special in his career, the music directors he has worked with and more, in a chat with CT.

 
 
 I wasn’t very active on Twitter, but the phenomenal response to the song changed everything. Even on Facebook, I have been receiving messages and friend requests from unknown people appreciating on a daily basis. I’m happy that many acknowledged my effort. My happiness knew no bounds when several Vijay sir fans said that my voice suits him and that I should consider singing for him again. This kind of positive words boost my confidence in an industry where you have many occasions to feel low.
 
 
 
 The news that Rahman sir composing music for Vijay sir’s film itself brings in a lot of anticipation. Added to that, Atlee’s films have had good songs. Luckily, the song met the humongous expectations. Moreover, the lyrics of the song were such that it spoke about Tamil pride — that clicked big time with music buffs and fans of Rahman sir and Vijay sir. For Tamil people, the last few months have been a happening period, right from the jallikattu protest time. Hence, the Tamil valour and tradition in the song was lapped up by one and all. In fact, I’m not a Tamilian — my father is a Telugu and mother a Kannadiga, though I was born and brought up here. So, when I could feel a sense of pride listening to the song, I could guess how the song would be an instant chartbuster. However, during the composing of the song, I was more tensed about how I could pull it off.
 
 
 
 I could sense the frenzy a few days before the audio launch. Performing with Rahman sir at the launch was a dream come true for me. I have never witnessed such a crazy crowd before. The ambience was such that I couldn’t hear my own voice while I was at the stage. The icing on the cake, for me, is that many people have started knowing me and are enquiring about the songs I have been singing before.
 
 
 
 I have had great associations with Rahman sir, Imman sir, Devi Sri Prasad and Thaman. The theme music of Jilla and Veeram, Shut Up Your Mouth from Ennamo Edho, Thaaru Maaru Thakkali Soru from Veera Sivaji, Summa Irukkuruthu Easy Illai from Pothuvaga En Manasu Thangam, Kaiveesum Kaatre from Strawberry, etc, are some of the songs which I consider special in Tamil. 
 
