PUNE: A specially made  ,   posthumously on  , got six lakh views in just two days after it was uploaded on India Army’s Facebook page. The film is titled “The Warriors Spirit”.

 The Army uploaded the movie on the Republic Day morning on its ADGPI - Facebook page. The 20-minute action-packed film is based on the events of May 26, 2016, leading to the martyrdom of the soldier in Kupwara district in Kashmir.
 
 The film has the interviews of Dada’s wife, brother, son, school friend, army officers and fellow soldiers from Rashtriya Rifles and Father Pradeep of Don Bosco Church in Borduria village in Arunachal Pradesh, where he used to go for mass.
 
 A Lt Col rank officer told TOI over phone, “This is a unique film which shows the courage of the soldiers of Indian Army. Despite hailing from a remote village in the north eastern state, Dada was determined to fight for the country in extreme condition. And he did not hesitate to sacrifice his life for the nation.”
 
 Philip Lishi, one of the viewers, posted a comment on the video, “Thanks for making the people of Arunachal Pradesh feel proud with your brave sacrifice for our country. Now no one will discriminate against us or call us Chinese.”
 
 Over 17,000 people have shared this video in the last two days. Besides, the film has got thousands of comments from viewers.
 
 The touching aspect of the film is when the martyr’s son expresses desire to become an army officer in future.
 
 Commenting on the movie, an officer from Army HQ, Delhi told TOI over phone, “The movie has been specially made by the 4 Assam Regiment to pay tribute to the martyr in a unique way. The movie will remind people of Dada’s supreme sacrifice for the nation forever.”
 
 The brave solider was born on October 2, 1979 in Borduria village in Tirap district of Arunachal Pradesh. He was from 4 Assam Regiment..
 
 While being deployed in a high altitude area on post in Kupwara district, Dada in a hand to hand combat eliminated three terrorists singlehandedly.
 
 Undeterred by the grave injury, he fought on and was instrumental in eliminating the fourth terrorist who was trying to infiltrate. In the process, he laid down his life.
 
 On Republic Day this year, President   awarded the Ashok Chakra, India’s highest gallantry award in peacetime, to Havaldar Hangpan Dada of the Assam Regiment. The honour was received by his wife Chasen Lowang Dada.
 
