JAIPUR: The 18-year-old rape survivor from   has now been   on a   for 18 days. While the doctors are trying their best to treat her for  , her family is shattered and going through the toughest time of their lives.

 “We can’t see her like this. She was full of life, always smiling and talking. But since September 4, she has been unconscious. She has not opened her eyes even once after she lost consciousness at a hospital in Ajeetgarh on September 4,” said Ramesh, the survivor’s elder brother. Ramesh, a farmer is, currently, looking after her at SMS Hospital.
 
 Narrating his family’s 25-day ordeal, Ramesh said, “There has not been a moment of relief since she fell on August 25 and was admitted to a hospital in Shahpura. Though she was discharged on August 28, her condition kept on deteriorating and we had to rush her to a hospital in Ajeetgarh. Before she lost consciousness there, I remember how she cried for hours and then, suddenly, became quiet.”
 
 He said the family came to know about her rape and forced abortion by her teachers only on their way to the Ajeetgarh hospital.
 
 The doctors at the hospital referred her to Jaipur’s Zanana Hospital as they didn’t have facilities to handle the case. “On the same day (September 4), we took her to Zanana Hospital. But, here too, the doctors admitted her for three days and referred her to SMS Hospital for further treatment,” he said.
 
 The police have already arrested a director of the Bal Niketan School, a private institution, and a teacher for the alleged gang-rape and abortion of the girl from a village near Ajeetgarh town. Besides, the state education department has also suspended the recognition of the school. “The accused must be strictly punished for the crime they committed,” he said.
 
 The desperate family is offering prayers and hoping that she would be saved from the hypoxic brain injury. “The girl is stable but has suffered brain damage due to interrupted oxygen supply to her brain,” said Dr S S Yadav, spokesperson, SMS Hospital. He said that, in such cases, patients take time to respond to treatment.
 
 
