NEW DELHI: The   (AAI) has decided to ask airlines to pool in resources and have disabled aircraft recovery kits at major airports to minimise the type of disruptions that Mumbai has faced twice in just over a decade for this reason. At present, only   has this kit in India.

 AAI chairman Guruprasad Mohapatra told TOI: “It (removing disabled aircraft from runways) is airlines’ responsibility. I have been pursuing a model where all airlines hire a common agency on cost sharing basis to have such facilities at some major airports. But airlines so far are not willing. We will pursue this.”
 
 Agencies are clearly worried as the growing air traffic now does not allow an aircraft to keep a runway occupied for several hours and disrupt aerial connectivity to and from that city. “In 2005 when an   plane got stuck on a Mumbai runway, the kit was sent by road from Ahmedabad. That time it took two to three days and even this time it took more than a day despite super human efforts by the AI aircraft removal team. The response time has to change and for that it is a must that airlines join forces, share expenses, to have disabled recovery kits at al major airports,” said a senior official.
 
 A senior aviation source said “piloting skills” are being looked at for the recent skidding of a   plane in Mumbai. “The runway was subjected to friction tests before it was reopened for operations as per protocol,” the official said.
 
 Only Delhi has two parallel runways apart from a third merging one. Mumbai has two cross runways, which basically makes it a single runway airport as only one can be used at a time. Apart from these, almost all other airports have single runways and a plane getting stuck there means that city’s aerial connectivity snapping till flights resume again.
 
 In fact, Indian Air Force (IAF) had earlier this year asked airlines to station aircraft removal kits and trained personnel to operate them at its airports as sensitive defence airstrips are often blocked by schedule carriers’ planes that get stuck there due to technical reasons for several hours there. IAF had warned that if airlines fail to do so their permission to operate flights to IAF airports like Jammu, Srinagar, Pune and Chandigarh could be cancelled.
 
 The minutes of a meeting aviation authorities had with airlines to finalise this summer schedule of domestic flights quote the the IAF representative saying: “Removal of disabled aircraft from runway: Operators are requested (to) provision equipment and trained manpower for removal of disabled aircraft from runway as this has serious aerospace safety ramifications. The approval of summer schedule is provisional and subject to operators fulfilling these conditions meticulously. Default, on this account, would render the clearances granted automatically invalid for operations of flights under summer schedule to IAF bases.”
 
 Schedule Indian carriers operate regular flights to about 20 defence airfields that have a civil enclave or passenger terminal. These include IAF bases like Gorakhpur, Allahabad and Bikaner and Naval bases like Goa’s   and Vishakhapatnam. All these airports have only one runway. If a plane gets stuck there, the forces are unable to operate their fighter jets – something that has security implications.
 
