MUMBAI: Less than a month after a man was arrested for 'murdering' a jeweller from Kerala inside the room of a lodge in Chembur, the police have now claimed that they have reason to believe that it is a   that the deceased had chated with a friend.

 On January 15, jeweller Satish Raju from Thrissur district was found hanging in a room at Kamla lodge. His hands were trussed up and the door of the room was latched from outside. Going by the circumstances, the police had then said it was a case of murder. The room was in a state of disarray, indicating foul play.
 
 Also, the wrist of the deceased had been slashed. A case of murder was registered at Chembur police station. Footage from cameras showed an unidentified man leaving the room. This man had managed to hide his face so that he would not be caught on camera.
 
 Eventually, the police arrested Raju's friend, identified only as Martin. “Martin was to accompany Satish to Mumbai, but he dropped the plan at the last moment, raising our suspicion,“ said deputy commissioner of police Umap Shahji.
 
 The police said that Martin spilled the beans on Raju. “He had suffered huge losses in the gold jewellery business. He owed at least 16 kilos of gold and also availed bank loans to tide over his debt crisis,“ said an officer.
 
 Police inspector Jaywant Sakpal along with his team traced Raju's itinerary from Kerala to Mumbai, which helped join the dots. From Kerala, Rajuwas found to have travelled to Coimbatore and was seen with a criminal -Mohammed Riyaz who also travelled with Raju to Chembur.
 
 Riyaz told the police that Raju had told him of being hounded by jewellers whom he owed gold and by banks from which he had taken loans. “Raju roped in Riyaz to carry out a robbery, but their plan fell through. That's when Raju asked Riyaz to tag along to Mumbai. The plan was that Raju would end his life to get rid of his debts.
 
 But he was aware that if he committed suicide, his family would not be entitled to insurance money and so he asked Riyaz to help him make the suicide look like a murder committed after robbery,“ said Sakpal. “Raju's felt that after his death, the creditors would treat the loans as a bad debt while his family would be entitled to the insurance claim.“
 
 In the Chembur lodge, Riyaz concealed his face when he accompanied Raju. An officer said Satish slashed his own wrist after which Riyaz only tied his hands to a rope and left with Rs 4 lakh Raju had promised him cash for all his help. “The idea was to make it look like a robbery,“ said the officer.
 
 Shahji said that their probe shows that after Riyaz left the room, Satish untied his hands and switched off the fan. “His fingerprints were found on the fan and on its switch, indicating that he hanged himself.“
 
