NAGPUR: Using Eklavya’s act of making an idol of his guru to learn archery as metaphor, pro vice-chancellor of Nagpur University   on Wednesday said that the Internet is   for today’s students.

 “However, you don’t need to worry about caste bias and   as the Internet is free of all such discriminations and a true universal guru,” he said.
 
 Yeole was speaking during the 19th convocation ceremony of Government Polytechnic, Sadar. As many as 725 diplomas were conferred on the occasion.
 
 He said after getting freedom, the progress of India has seen different stages. “First, it was zamindars who were wealthy, then industrialists, followed by politicians. Today, education has replaced them. When Nobel lauearate Amartya Sen was asked what held key to India’s growth, he said education, education and education,” the pro VC said.
 
 Yeole lamented that no Indian university features among top 200 in the world. “What are the causes for this must be thought over. Innovation should guide university education. Indian education is rich in quantity, but poor in quality. Teaching profession has lost its sheen. Stereotyped concepts of learning must be replaced with new methods,” he said.
 
 He suggested that academia and industry must interact more as they are two sides of the same coin.
 
 He told students that learning shouldn’t stop after getting degrees and marks. “Your degrees have a blank space on one side. The space is for your future achievements. Today, you don’t need to worry about jobs, shelter and finance. But you will find a long queue where you will get things easily. So, explore difficulties and prove your potential,” he said.
 
 Principal CN Thorat and joint director technical education Gulabrao Thakre were present.
 
 In his address, Thakre said that Government Polytechnic has a102-year-old history and has been a lauchpad for many reputed institutes such as VRCE, GMC and Chitrakala Mahavidyala. “This is one of the premier institutes across the state by intake and education quality,” he said.
 
 Thakre said from 2017-18, outcome-based syllabus would be implemented at the institute. But he rejected the argument that Indian syllabus wasn’t progressive. “People who question our syllabus and job markets, I want to ask them how did we produce engineers and CEOs who are leading the world,” he added.
 
