 needs no introduction in a fashion article. One of India’s veteran designers, he has been in the industry for over 25 years and has been an integral part of the Lakmé Fashion Week since its inception. Nari (as he is fondly called), will be showcasing his collection Burgoyne presents Narendra Kumar, at the   on February 3. In a candid interview he talks to Bombay Times about his collection, how fashion has evolved and what kind of a role Bollywood should play in the industry. Excerpts...
 
 
 
 
 When it first started, it was primarily to discover new talent. People said as a designer why do you want to do that for other designers? But I thought it was the right time for the country and all of us to have fresh new talent because it energizes the market, and competes with the older generation. I think the LFW has done its job really wonderfully well, over the period, but what we see today is a different kind of transformation.When it started, there were all these big designers doing the same thing for many years – creating Indian clothes over the years. 10 years later, around 2010, what happened was that Indian designers suddenly turned to the West for validation and around 80 per cent of the collections were Western wear based. In the last two-four years the LFW has seen a rise of what we call India Modern – where young Indian designers are creating silhouettes that are global, using Indian textiles and mixing it with global brands. You can wear anything with a Addidas or a Puma footwear today. They are back to showcasing Indianwear with Indian styling. And that is the India Modern – to me this reflects a growing set of confidence that young Indian designers have in them. They no longer look to the West to seek validation for their work. And that is a really significant thing that is happening today. So that is the journey of change in India. The change is also reflected in society when you see what is happening in Make In India, Entrepreneur India and Start Up India, and all of these things are shaping up the confidence of Indian designers and businesses and all of them affect each other.
 
 
 
 
 The best thing about being in this industry that even today I feel like its my first show. I feel as energized and as enthusiastic. I work twice as hard today than I did 20 years ago – that level of enthusiasm is same for me – its not decreased one bit. Today with all my knowledge and experience I can bring in so many more things to a show and that is what excites me. And this is the wonderful thing that fashion has done to me. It has made me more energetic and it lifts me up everyday and gives me sleepless nights.
 
 
 
  
 My upcoming show is about the Millennial, about boys coming of age, boys growing into men. And the show is about the lifestyle of these young millennials. A lot of this has to do with how these boys have a lot of career options and how they very short attention spans. How within six years they have tried 10 different jobs. In the past there would be only around 10 careers – a doctor, or an engineer, or a government servant, or a banker. But today you can run a pastry shop ad make a life for yourself. You can start up a small company that does software and has an app. There are thousands careers available and because there are so many options, it becomes very difficult for them to choose a career. The show is about that. About how a young person can have multiple personalities – he is a DJ , a boxer, a software writer, an artist so many things. All this translates into the show. And we have created a film for the first time – that is called the Millennials and will be played before the show begins.
  
 
 
 When people think about linen, they think of it as casual wear. We have introduced the concept of athleisure in linen – athletic leisure wear – like bomber jackets in linen, which are really conducive to the current fashion and the climate in India. Althleisure in track pants, jogger pants with prints and plain. There is also a new element this season – we have introduced the concept called soft-tailoring.
 Most of the people think of tailoring with heavy construction and heavy embroidery. So we have introduced these ultra light linen jackets that are tailored really smartly and look just like regular jackets but are actually ultra light. These two are the broad trends. And then between those trends we have these long piece of fabrics - like kurta shirts that can be worn with track pants. We have shorts for evening wear. We have shown that in linen we have embroidered stuff mostly for destination weddings. So quite a few new things in the collection this time.
  
 
 
 I was working for Amazon for the last three years - helping them with setting up their fashion, their roots in the country. Amazon is a large company and has a huge amount of work involved in it. I looked at Amazon as designing for a different scale. When I do fashion on the ramp I reach a certain amount of people. But when I do that for Amazon, I create what is good for a billion people. Over time, that will stay – it is about designing on a different scale. 
 For me my clothing was always an inspiration. And today I have a great story to tell. I like it that there is a lot of socio-political things happening in the country. And my fashion has always been about this change. Right from 1990 till today I have always looked at change to inspire me and how we as Indians are changing with the times and how India itself is changing. Today we are at a crucial point – all the software and technology has changed the way a lot of people live in this country. And I want to reflect on that with my show. I want to be able to tell a story. For me clothes were never about just clothes. And that story is about India changing and how our values are changing.
  
 
 
 
 I still make my own patterns. And can I tell you one thing? I would be nobody without my tailors and my team. They are the people who have made me. It could not be done without them. My team has been with me for the last 20 years. And that is because I value them. I have tremendous respect for them because I know without them I would be nobody. Everyday (three days in Bangalore, four in Mumbai) I am in my studio working. Making the designs, helping my team understand how to cut it, embroidery, look at the finishing – all of it.
  
 
 
 I think women's wear did not have much to do with skill other than picking colours and embroidery at that time. When it came to menswear, there was so much technical stuff involved in cutting a suit, finishing it, that most people found it difficult. So unless you were really trained in the craft and had given all your time to understand the craft, you cannot do it.
 So people then took the easy way out – doing women’s wear by putting some fancy embroidery on it. Not to say that there weren’t people who actually did good work – there were designers who worked with the craft and who really worked and lived the craft.
 Menswear was the biggest superstar. I didn’t have money at that time, so I told myself - how am I going to make the most impact with the least amount of money. And when you look at the film industry – the biggest stars are men, not women. But they had no sense of clothing. They were going to the gym but were wearing clothes that were really so bad. Men were going to the gym but they didn’t have clothes that spoke about that body. Wanted to bring classic tailoring to menswear. So that is why I decided to focus on menswear. I decided to push the whole idea of revolutionizing menswear in Bollywood. Of course there was fashion for men in th e 60s and 70s but contemporary fashion was what I looked at – understand the body, giving a tailored look. 
  
 
 
  
 I think that Bollywood stars help to market the clothes. And that is the reality. But they are not a priority for me – the priority for me is my clothes. I am very confident about the clothes I make and I am very happy with the story they tell. And I would never force a star or set up a Bollywood star into my show just for the sake of publicity.
  
 
 
  does not need any styling help – he is into exploring and looks at different ideas. I like that. He is the poster boy of fashion for Bollywood. Deepika Padukone dresses elegantly. Sonam Kapoor, Karisma Kapoor, Kangana Ranaut and Alia Bhat. There are all pushing the frontiers of fashion. They are helping young designers. And I like that. I wish they really supported the industry that gives them so much more - and especially young designers, talented designers of today who really need their support.
  
 
