MUMBAI: Monorail services came to a standstill for close to an hour and a half due to a technical glitch in a rake that got stuck between   and   stations on Saturday evening.

 Spokesperson for Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), Dilip Kawathkar, said, “The incident happened at 6.55 pm and the system and operations resumed at 8.20 pm. Stuck passengers alighted after the affected rake was brought back to Bhakti Park."
 
 Sources said that the incident happened because of a problem in the braking system. Another rake was sent to tow away the affected train to Bhakti Park station.
 
 When asked why it took so much time to resume services, an official said, “Unless the affected rake is removed from the guideway, operations cannot begin. Due to this incident, as many as 20 services were cancelled.“
 
 Even after three years have passed since the first phase of the Monorail, between   and Wadala, was commissioned, the system is still to stabilize.
 
 It has faced problems with the rolling stock as well as the power system and spare parts.Initially , there were problems with the constant velocity joints that connect the axle broke, rendering two rakes ineffective. Later, a doors in a rake had opened mid way , creating a safety scare.
 
 A few months later, power system failure due to damages to the cable had also led to disruptions on many occasions.If these were not enough, incidents of wheel and tyre falling were reported.
 
 A senior official claimed that the system has stabilized largely and this disruption has been reported after almost six to eight months.“
 
 Since its launch on February 10, 2014, two months before the Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar corridor was thrown open, the Monorail has been beset with problems. Also, contrary to projections, it has not been popular. While Metro carries 3.14 lakh passengers a day, the monorail finds it difficult to get ridership because phase I stations are low-population areas and are away from important residential and commercial hubs of the eastern suburbs. With an 8.8km route, the monorail's ridership is only 15,000 per day .With losses of Rs 20 lakh per day since it started operations, the monorail is proving to be a white elephant for the MMRDA, which says a turnaround can be expected only after the entire corridor, up to  , is opened. The monorail has also been laid low because of a lack of punctuality, owing to poor rolling stock and maintenance issues. In comparison, Metro claims 99.9% punctuality.
 
