Thiruvananthapuram: The Adivasi Maha Sabha (AMS) has slammed the state government’s decision to permit the entry of women to   and demanded the government to reconsider it citing ‘entry of women will destroy the religious and ritualistic beliefs of the tribal people in the area’.

 “The Kanikkar tribes in Agasthya Mala have been worshipping Agasthya as their tribal deity for centuries. As per our beliefs, women are not permitted to enter the holy mountain of Agasthyarkoodam. Even the tribal women have been following this belief for generations. The forest minister’s decision to accord permission for women to take part in the Agasthyarkoodam trek will destroy our centuries-old beliefs,” said AMS president Mohanan Thriveni at a press meet here on Friday.
 
 Mohanan said that forest secretary P Mara Pandiyan insulted the tribal community by blaming them for polluting the mountains. 
 
 “He said that the liquor bottles found at the mountain were brought by the tribal people. Everybody knows that tourists and travellers are the ones who pollute the reserved forests by dumping plastic and other pollutants. There is the court order that gives us the right to conduct our rituals at Agasthyarkoodam and even then secretary insulted us saying that the tribal people have no right to offer pooja at the mountain,” said Mohanan.
 
 AMS said that they will organize protests against the government’s decision to make Agasthya Mala a tourist site. “The Agasthya hills are naturally blessed with several rare species of herbs and medicinal plants. It is also home to many endangered animal species. The increasing intervention of human beings will affect the ecological stability and the biological diversity of the place. We will not let the government to destroy our holy mountain,” added Mohanan.
 
 Following a protest by various women’s groups, forest minister K Raju decided last week to allow women to travel to Agasthyarkoodam ‘but at their own risk’, from next year onwards. 
 
 However, the minister had added that the women should not hurt the religious sentiments of Kani tribe.
 
 Forest department organizes these trips annually with entry for limited travellers from the day of the Makaravilakku festival in Sabarimala temple till Sivarathri day (during January to March of every year). And the entry is limited to 100 persons per day for around 40 days. 
 
 
