While most of the colleges have been calling the real-life wrestlers Geeta and   for their college events,   chose to invite its alumna  , the actress who played Babita Phogat in 'Dangal'. Sanya, who is a Gargi graduate, attended the last day of the annual cultural festival and told everyone how she used to bunk classes, her association with Sparx – the choreography society of the college. As she reached on the stage, she also revealed that she got   as a surprise for the college girls, "I have a surprise for you all. I have got K2J2, my brother Omkar from Dangal."

  
 Sanya, who was overwhelmed about her college visit, thanked her teachers and the students' union for calling her for the cultural fest. "It feels so good to be back in Gargi, thank you so much for calling me here. I would really like to thank Sheela ma'am, teachers and all the beautiful girls of Gargi college," she said as Sheela Dubey, the staff advisor of the students’ union interrupted her and said, "Sanya asked me that Aparshakti also wants to come, so I told her that he is most welcome."
 
  
  Aparshakti Khurrana with   (L), Principal, Gargi College (BCCL)
 
 
 The members of the students' union, who had questions for both Sanya and Aparshakti, asked Sanya if she liked Delhi more or Mumbai? "Delhi is pyaar because I was born and brought up here, but I love Mumbai," she replied. Aparshakti added, "Main thodi help kar deta hoon, humesha bhai jaise movie mein beech mein aaya hoon, vaise hi yahan bhi help kar deta hoon. Delhi inki janambhoomi hai aur Mumbai inki karambhoomi hai. Par Dilli, Dilli hai yaar. I was born in Chandigarh, then came to Delhi and I have this argument with everyone ki Dilli jaisa khana kahin nahi mil sakta. And she is also a foodie, that is how we both bonded."
 
  A union member asked Sanya, "But you don’t look like a foodie?" to which Sanya replied, "It is because of Dangal that I lost six kgs for the movie. Otherwise, I was a healthy girl, ekdum Dilli ki hatti-katti ladki thi."
 
  
  Snaps galore: Students of Gargi college take pictures of Sanya Malhotra (BCCL)
 
 Sanya also shared that she misses performing in Delhi. Before she could finish her sentence, Aparshakti said, "Arrey, miss karne ki kya baat hai? Abhi gaana bajwate hain, DJ vale babu inka gaana baja do."
 
  The Dhaakad girl, then danced on 'Aisi Dhakaad hai' and 'London Thumakda' with Aparshakti. She told everyone that during her three years in college, she had never attended a single class. "Maine teen saal mein ek bhi class attend nahi kee, sorry teachers, but this is true. Main college sirf dance karne aati thi because I was part of the choreography society. I remember, after the fest season got over, I went to my class for the first time when only two months were left for the first year to get over. Jab tak main class mein pohunchi, ma'am lock laga chuki thi. I started knocking on the door, she did not open, so I started kicking the door. I needed attendance, 2 months reh gaye the. So, when she opened the door, she said, "Who are you?" I said, "Ma'am, I am your student so she said, "Yes, I have seen you in papers (because during the fest season, my photos were printed in the newspapers) but I have never seen you in my class," Sanya laughed. 
 
 "Aisi batein karte hain apni teachers ke saamne?" asked Aparshakti and Sanya quickly added, "But please, attend your classes, it is very important. Main toh mazak kar rahi thi, follow nahi karna ye sab."
 
 
  
 
 
