PUNE: Physician  , who dedicated his life to health and hygiene and built several toilets for villagers in Dehu in Pune district, was awarded the   posthumously on Wednesday.

 Mapuskar, who had conceptualised indigenous toilet designs, had received the Nirmal gram award from late President APJ Kalam in 2006. He passed away in 2015.
 
 Born on January 22, 1935 in Konkan, Mapuskar came to Dehu as a doctor in 1960 and strived to improve hygiene standards in the village. He observed that most villagers used the fields for defecation and often suffered from water-borne diseases. He built toilets for the villagers but they collapsed in the rains.
 
 Mapuskar then studied other toilet designs and zeroed in on an indigenous one. However, more than the design, the harder task was to convince villagers to use toilets. He demonstrated to them the link between worm infestation and open defecation.
 
  Mapuskar’s efforts finally paid off and people began approaching him to build their own toilets. By 1986, when the government launched the central rural sanitation programme, Mapuskar and the Dehu panchayat had already implemented sanitation measures in half the village without taking any subsidy. The village then had drains to channel waste water into settling tanks, from where it was released into the fields. Today, many households with toilets have a Mapuskar-design biogas plant that supplies them cooking gas.
 
 Mapuskar’s daughter   said her father worked for sanitation all his life. “The award will be an inspiration to the younger generation,” she said.
 
 Dehu resident  , who knows the Mapuskar family since he was a child, said, “My early memories are of Mapuskar convincing the villagers against open defecation. He would persuade the villagers to not only use toilets but also help in building them.”
 
 Prakash Rokade, who worked in Dehu as a medical officer in 1988-89 and 2005-2007, said, “Mapuskar was posted at the state-run primary health centre in Dehu as a medical officer. Such was his dedication that he made the Dehu PHC an ideal healthcare centre in India.”
 
