The episode starts with   coming to   and asking her why she is so upset and crying. Pragya tells him that she is not feeling good as she was not able to carry the style in which Abhi wanted to see her.
 
  Abhi says that he has a strong belief in her and that her upbringing is very different and strong and he knows about it very well. He says that he just wanted to change people's behaviour and prove that Pragya is not inferior to them.
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  He consoles Pragya and tell her that she should be her orignal self as she is very different and unique and he loves her simplicity. Pragya smiles and tries to cheer up. Abhi invites her for the bachelor's party.
  
    is waiting for Abhi at home and she asks him about the dress and he says that he has given it for alteration. Tanu says that Abhi is lying because she had already called at the shop. Abhi says he must have forgot it in the office and leaves from there. Tanu calls the office and comes to know that Abhi is once again lying to her.
  
  
  Tanu goes to Pragya's home and asks Biji about Pragya but Biji dosen't let her meet Pragya.
  Tanu sees the same shopping bag and gets to know about the dress. She loses her temper and makes fun of Pragya.
  
  She laughs at her and says that she can never be like her. Even after wearing clothes like her, Pragya can never have that same class and standard like her.
  
  She says that Rocky was right that Pragya looks like a servant and she wants that Abhi should also have a negative image of Pragya in her mind.
  
  She says Pragya not to come at the bachelor's party because Tanu's friends think that Pragya is a 'bhenji'.
  
  Tanu comes back to Abhi's house and she finds Alia and   over there. She tells them how she insulted Pragya and showed her real position in Abhi's life. She says how much she is in love with her external beauty.
  
  Tanu and Aalia laugh and say that Abhi tried to do Pragya’s makeover, and thought she can become classy like them. Tanu says Abhi tried to make a crow look peacock.
  
  Purab gets worried for Pragya.
