The episode of   starts with Roshni worrying about Romi and Adi. Ishita tries to calm her down and tells her that she understands her state of mind. Roshni's mother says that nothing will happen to Roshni as she is a good person upon which Shagun asks whether her husband is a good person. She tries to interfere by telling them that she works with an NGO and could help them. Roshni's mother denies.

 Ishita tells her that her marriage happened forcibly and that she will begin the divorce procedure. Gagan and Shagun talk about shagun not knowing about her.
 
 Ishita asks Roshni to show her hand to the pandit. The pandit tells her that good things are in store for her and that she will always have someone by her side. He also tells them that Adi's kundali has two marriages written in it.
 
 Ishita thinks that the pandit is mistaken. Adi and Romi enter the scene and Adi says that the pundit is right about two marriages. Romi tries to stop him. Gagan exposes his truth and then Ashok slaps Gagan.
 
 Adi says that even if the pundit said a hundred marriages, he would only marry Aaliya 100 times.
 
  
  
 Mrs Bhalla and Amma argue about who looks younger between them. They get a bottle of gulab jal but since both have poor eyesight, they can't see what it is clearly and they mix it in the haldi. Roshni finds that the haldi smelling really bad. 
 
 Adi sits for the haldi and the ceremony is about to start when Roshni finds a bottle in the kitchen, Neelu says that its gulab jal and that she mixed it in the haldi.
 
 Neelu shows the bottle to Ishita and she wonders about why her chemical bottle is empty. She says that its a very strong chemical that dentists use in small quantities.
 
 The haldi is about to be applied to Adi when Roshni runs and steals the bowl. Everyone gets angry as she has done an 'Apshagun.' Adi gets mad at her and tells her to leave the house. Ishita comes and takes her away. She later scolds Adi for shouting at her without knowing the reason of her actions. 
 
 
  
 
