MEERUT: Approximately 500 chainsaw (aara) machines were closed down in Meerut on March 24, when district forest officials took action terming the machines illegal. Thousands of workers are associated with the business, which primarily supplies carved wood to the manufacturers in the iconic Meerut sports goods industry for them to transform into stumps, bats, hockey sticks and other items. 

 The workers have claimed all along that their businesses have been targeted unfairly and arbitrarily without any reasonable explanation having been given on the closure. Now, after six weeks of running from pillar to post, the workers, who are daily-wage earners and are unable to feed their families, are threatening to immolate themselves if their businesses are not allowed to function.
  
  “I was just told one day that my business was illegal. I have been doing this my entire life, and do not know anything else. But, I was not given any time or notice. The government just decided one fine day that my business has to be stopped. I earned a meagre Rs 300 a day. That has now stopped. I have been looking for other kinds of daily wage labour, like riding a rickshaw or working at a construction site.
 
  But, it doesn’t work as well. Sometimes there is work, and sometimes there is not. We have been asking the government to help us out since March. But nobody is listening to us. We have nowhere to go. We have no hope and that is why we want to self-immolate,” said  , a chainsaw machine worker.
  
  The forest department has clamped down on the saw-mill industry in UP since the   government came to power, citing a 2001   order which sought closure of unlicensed mills.
  
  However, the workers operating the machines argue that the order is meant for large factories, not small businesses like theirs. “We are not causing any environment damage. We are only doing this to feed our families. But the government has stopped us from carrying out our business,” said Firdous Ahmed.
  
  Arun Goyal of the   believes that if the issue is not resolved soon, the repercussions could be serious as the workers are getting anxious. “We have approached the authorities several times for this but they have not been helpful at all. It’s almost been two months now that the businesses have stopped. The workers are getting angry, anxious and desperate. They could take drastic steps. If they are saying they will self-immolate, I wouldn’t take it lightly,” he said.
  
  “According to the Supreme   order, it is clear that these saw-mills are illegal. Big or small doesn’t matter. They all have to be closed down. That is clear,” said  , divisional forest officer.
