MEERUT: Income tax officials seized Rs 1.76 crore in unaccounted cash, 2.5 kg gold, 16 property documents and two bank lockers during raids at nearly 20 locations in eight cities at the residences of UP bureaucrats. The raids, that went on for over 34 hours from Wednesday morning to late on Thursday evening, were at the homes of Meerut regional transport officer (RTO)   and her husband, additional CEO of Greater Noida Authority (GNIDA) and former Ghaziabad district magistrate (DM) Vimal Kumar Sharma, eight locations of the director (health) and former Baghpat DM  , as well as offices and residences of two RTO clerks and three Baghpat district administration clerks.
 
  MK Jain, joint director, investigation, I-T department, said, “We have seized Rs 1.25 crore in unaccounted cash from Hriday Shankar Tiwari’s properties at eight different locations, as well as nine property documents and 2.5 kg in gold. Meanwhile, from the seven locations of Mamta Sharma and her husband Vimal Kumar Sharma, we have seized two bank lockers and seven property documents. We still have to investigate the bank lockers and the property documents. Benami property angle is also being investigated.”
  
  While the documents seized from Tiwari’s residence are for locations in Nainital, Noida, Greater Noida and even a farmhouse in Lucknow, the property documents seized from Mamta Sharma and her husband’s residences are for locations in Noida, Greater Noida, Nainital and Mainpuri.
  
  “Also, Rs 21 lakh in unaccounted cash was seized from RTO clerk Sudhir Saxena’s residence. Another Rs 30 lakh in unaccounted cash was seized collectively from the residences of the three Baghpat district administration clerks Rajesh Sharma, Masallah and  , and the residence of ‘mining mafia’ kingpin  ,” said Jain.
  
  A team of 100 I-T officials was formed and sent for raids at nearly 20 different locations – it had begun with 15 locations but raids were expanded further – in eight cities early on Wednesday morning including Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Gorakhpur, Baghpat, Meerut and Lucknow.
  
  “Though the raids have been completed, the documents and lockers seized are a matter of investigation and the source of income for the properties is being checked,” said Jain.
