Sanjana Sindhe

 If a book hits the pinnacle of popularity, it will, no doubt, find a cinematic or television adaptation or both, in no time. There have been innumerable instances over the years, and the trend is only here to stay, what with quite a few TV versions of famed books hitting the small screen this year alone.
 
 
 
 Set loosely around the characters of the iconic Archies comics, this series deviates from the original books’ genre of comedy and romance, venturing into mystery and teen drama. With the plot mainly revolving around the shocking death of a student in the fictional town of Riverdale, the show incorporates familial feuds, dark humour and elements of suspense to present the story of an Archie and gang that is worlds apart from the comics.
 
 
 
 Based on Jay Asher’s novel that deals with suicide, depression and bullying, this series largely follows the book's storyline, digressing from it only to add more graphic details that were found necessary to drive home the show’s ideas of compassion and empathy. Despite occasionally being termed too melodramatic, this show aptly portrays the tone and ideology found in the book.
 
 
 
 Created as a miniseries by executive producer Reese Whitherspoon, this show, based on Liane Moriarty’s book of the same name, is dark comedy-drama that follows the story of three young mothers in a peaceful town, torn apart by a murder that wreaks havoc on their already troubled lives.
 
 
 
 The Oz series of books are counted among the most beloved stories of all time, so a modern TV rendition of this famous series predictably garnered much attention. Season One of Emerald City, recounting the tale of Dorothy and her adventures in the Land of Oz, managed to live up to the viewers’ high expectations, in spite of its ‘ambitious’ re-imagining of the original story, and thereby earned several fans who now wait with bated breath for the announcement of a Season Two. 
 
 
 
 The announcement of an adaptation of the novel by Lucy Montgomery delighted fans across the world, although its broadcast was initially restricted to Canada. Slated to be telecast to the rest of the world in May, the show recounts the story of Anne Shirley, a dramatic and over-active orphan, and brings to life the magic that the bestselling novel enthralled the world with a century ago.
 
 
 
 This show, adapted from Daniel Handler’s book series, is held together by a strong cast that included Neil Patrick Harris, Joan Cusack and Cobie Smulders, and the first season of A Series of Unfortunate Events received widespread appreciation globally.
 
 
 
 
 
 
