
 Hours after the body of a 72-year-old man was found bound and gagged at his   on Saturday evening, the police arrested his   and her two male friends for their alleged involvement in the crime.
 
 Rahat Pathan, 23, has told the police that she and her friends attacked   in a   following a heated argument. Rahat, who also faces a robbery case, is the sister of Darvez's third wife, who left him three years ago and remarried.
 
 The crime came to light when Darvez's grandson visited his home at Sai Manzil building to check on him. He was found tied and gagged in his bedroom. The marks on his body suggested that he had been hit by a stick several times.
 
 Rahat came on police radar after neighbours told investigators from Pydhonie police station that she often visited Darvez, who ran a saloon and a guesthouse in the neighbourhood.
 
 Despite her sister's decision to leave Darvez and remarry, sources said, Govandi resident Rahat maintained a cordial relationship with his brotherin-law. She had even stayed at his place for some time few months ago. Darvez also helped her financially, said sources.
 
 “Nobody had the contact details of the victim's wife. After we were told about her sister, we traced her to Govandi on Sunday through her relatives,“ Deepak Jagannath Kundal, senior inspector of Pydhonie police station said.
 
 Rahat is believed to have told the cops that she went to Darvez's house along with her friends, identified as Mujjamil Shaikh, 26, and Mustafa Khan, 26. “The main suspect said she visited the victim to collect a few of her clothes that were lying in his house,“ said an official.
 
 But the meeting turned nasty after Rahat got into a heated argument with Darvez. In a fit of rage, one of her friends pushed the senior citizen against the fridge. “The man fell down and began screaming for help when they bound and gagged him. As he continued to make some noise, the suspects said, they smothered him,“ the source added.
 
 Kundal said the Rahat and her friends stole Rs 15,000 from the house and took away Darvez's gold ring. “The stolen valuables are yet to be recovered.Further investigations are on.“
 
 The trio has been booked for murder. A holiday court on Sunday remanded them in police custody till January 11.
 
