CHENNAI: Several   in the city, built under erstwhile town panchayats and later brought under the corporation, remain unavailable for the public.

 A few, however, like the hall in   remain booked throught the year and serve as major revenue earners for  .
 
 The majority are being used for purposes other than what they were built for. Offices of the corporation and taluk are housed on the first and ground floors of the facility in Sholinganallur, which was built in 2010 when the area had still not come under the corporation.
 
 “We don’t have enough space in this zonal office building, so we are using the first floor of the community hall,” said an official at the zonal office. The hall, he added, remained locked and mixers and grinders meant for distribution among the residents were kept there.
 
 “The process of procuring land for a new office building is on, and once it is complete, the offices will permanently be moved there,” he said. On the hall not serving the purpose for which it was built, he said “There is a bigger, better-equipped community hall in Karapakkam that is being used by people.”
 
 In Pallikaranai, too, the hall constructed in 2010 has never been available for use. “It has been seven years since it was constructed but it lies locked,” said K Jayaraman of AGS Colony.
 
 Zonal officials, when contacted, said the corporation was planning halls with better amenities, and for the time being the Metrowater zonal office was housed in the hall.
 
 “We are planning to build new halls at Mylai Balaji Nagar, Pallikaranai, and Madipakkam. This hall is small and does not have proper facilities. We have prepared the estimate and work will be undertaken soon,” said an official.
 
 Till a few days ago, a few residents said, the hall was being used to store mixers and grinders and after several petitions, the products were moved to other locations. “I had to pay money from my pocket to get the products moved. Now the hall is empty but remains locked,” said M Chokalingam, a resident.
 
 On the other hand, halls popular among the public remain busy throughout. As per data from the corporation, it earned Rs 1.3 crore in the 2016-17 financial year through 4,225 bookings, mainly for such halls.
 
 “We get many bookings but most happen during the auspicious time periods. Most bookings are for wedding ceremonies. The cost of Rs 5,000 for eight hours is nominal for people who can’t afford private halls. This hall usually remains free during the mornings,” said an employee at the RA Puram hall.
 
