LUCKNOW: In 2012 assembly elections, he distributed handbills and put up banners for the   from Obra constituency,  . Five years later, this 29-year-old research scholar at Lucknow University has a team of party workers campaigning for him. For, Ravi Kumar Gond is in the race himself from Obra in Sonbhadra district, one of the two seats of the state reserved for the schedule tribes this time. Neighbouring Duddhi is the other one. 

 Gond, alias `Badku’, son of a driver -- Jitendra Kumar -- and Madhuri Devi, is doing research at the social works deaprtment of LU on the status of Central government’s scheme titled TRIFED in Obra and Duddhi. The scheme aims at providing marketing assistance and remunerative prices to ST communities for their minor forest produce and surplus agricultural produce and to wean them away from exploitative private traders and middlemen. As per 2001 census figures, Duddhi has 38.24% STs and Obra, 18.93% . 
 
 When Election Commission of India decided to reserve Obra as ST constituency, he met CM Akhilesh Yadav and expressed his desire to contest from Obra. According to Prashant Singh, UP’s vice-president of Lohia Vahini, who is also Ravi’s election campaigner, there were five others in the fray for the same seat -- a former MLA from Obra, a top official of UP Commission for SC/ST, a state minister and a top businessmen who is into mining. “The CM, however, decided to give the ticket to the youngest of them all. It’s a motivation for lakhs of youths,’’ said Prashant who also belongs to Sonebhadra.
 
 For Ravi, it’s s a dream come true. "The chief minister has once again proved that he believes in the youth who are dedicated workers, and cares for the community. His (Akhilesh) decision to give me ticket brings a great honour for me and my community,’’ Ravi told TOI.
 
 On January 22, when he came to know about his nomination, Gond was shocked. “I was addressing a public meeting in my constituency, and I received over 100 phone calls, congratulating me. Soon, the news was spread in my village. I rushed home and apprised my parents of the development. They were happy reassuring their faith in me,’’ Ravi said.
 
 Ravi’s association with SP dates back to 2006 when he came to Lucknow to pursue Bachelors of Commerce (BCom) from LU. “We met him (Akhilesh) in 2006 and he talked about tribals and community discussed our issues. We were bowled over by his simplicity and concern for tribals,’’ the duo said. After BCom, Ravi enrolled himself for Masters in Social Work from LU and then into PhD in 2012. “All these years, he has been with the party, in all ups and downs, participated in party’s rathyatra and cycle yatras,” said a senior party official.
 
 Confident of his win, Ravi said his focus is to ensure basics -- road, water and electricity -- in the interior regions of Obra. “In 1951, when the first election was held, people here asked for three things - water, road and electricty. Even after 70 years’ of independence, there demands remain unchanged,’’ said Ravi. 
 
