LUCKNOW: A large number of   were on the dais to support chief minister Akhilesh Yadav's coronation as the national president of the   at its special convention on Sunday. Described as ‘Brutus’ by the Mulayam's camp, most of them claimed to have sided ‘with the party's future which rests with Akhilesh’.

 One of the most surprising names in the list of Mulayam's loyalists who decided to go with Akhilesh at this crucial juncture was that of party vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda who played a pivtol role in the coup within the SP. A sitting RS MP who first joined hands with   as SP's founder member in early 1992, Nanda presided over the special convention on Sunday where Akhilesh was anointed as the SP chief. Taken aback by the move, Mulayam expelled him from the party.
 
 Reacting to his sacking, Nanda said he has backed Akhliesh who is the future of the Samajwadi Party. "Now Akhilesh will lead the party to victory and will become the next chief minister of Uttar Pradesh," Nanda said dismissing his expulsion as meaningless. "Now Akhilesh is the party chief," he said.
 
 Another old-time Mulayam associate  , who was a minister in his cabinet in 2003 and went on to become SP MP from Allahabad in 2004 and 2009, too attended the SP convention on Sunday to support Akhilesh's elevation. Later, his son Ujjwal Raman Singh, too, had been a minister during Mulayam’s last stint as chief minister of UP. With Akhilesh as CM, Ujjawal was accommodated as a minister of state status in the present dispensation.
 
 Then was one of the most vocal faces in Rajya Sabha, Naresh Agarwal, whose son Nitian Agarwal is a minister in Akhilesh’s cabinet and also figures in the list of candidates for the 2017 assembly polls announced by both the camps in SP from Hardoi sadar assembly constituency. Following reports of his sacking by Mulayam after he attended the convention, Naresh Agarwal said he sided with Akhilesh as he was the future of the party. "As UP chief minister, he has already emerged as the most promising party face," he said.
 
 However, this was not the first time that Mulayam confidants have opted to back the younger generation. Senior minister in Akhilesh cabinet Rajendra Chaudhary has been by Mulayam’s sides for over three decades before he went with Akhilesh soon after he was sworn in as the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh in March 2012. One of Mulayam's most trusted lieutenants in party's organisational issues - SRS Yadav - too went with Akhilesh when he established the   in October 2016 which soon started functioning as a parallel party office directly under the CM.
 
 
