BENGALURU: More than 200 children, in the age group of 10-16 and including nearly a dozen girls, had a harrowing time at the   here on Tuesday as police and officials from the   detained them for nearly seven hours on suspicion that they were being trafficked from Assam and  .

 The 206 students and their 17 teachers were allowed to go only after it was confirmed they were from   and were returning after  . Chaos prevailed at the station as hundreds of people arrived on the spot and police delayed the release of the children as most of them allegedly lacked proper identification documents.
 
 Local TV channels beaming images of young boys and girls added to the frenzy. A group gathered at the station argued with police that they were students of madrassas from Bengaluru, Tumakuru and Shivamogga, among other places.
 
 The students' team arrived at the Cantonment station by Guwahati-Bengaluru Cantonment Express around 12.30pm. On a tipoff, police and CWC officials had arrived in advance at the station.
 
 Soon, officials from the Central Crime Branch, Criminal Investigation Department and Railway Protection Force rushed to the station and joined hands with local police, who had already started questioning the students as well as their teachers.DCP (East) Ajay Hillori and Bengaluru SP (railways) N Chaitra, too, arrived on the spot.
 
 The students were shepherded to a corner of Platform No 1. The Bengaluru contacts of the students and their teachers were summoned. After scanning the papers of some minors and elders accompanying them, police ruled out trafficking angle. “There was confusion over the identity cards of some students,“ a railway police officer said.
 
 “Some of these students are from my madrassa at Chamarajpet. If anyone has any doubt, they can visit the madrassa,“ Habibulla Pasha, moulvi, told police and reporters.
 
 After local leaders and the moulvis accompanying the children gave an undertaking to the city police and railway police that they will take full responsibility of the youngsters in case they indulged in illegal activities, police allowed the students and the teachers to walk out. The final batch of 25 students walked out of the station and boarded a bus to Tumakuru around 7 pm. An Assamese couple who had come from Guwahati said their two children were missing in the melee. No complaint has been filed in this regard, police said. Heavy police deployment had been made in and around the Cantonment station. Along with civil and railway police, two platoons of Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) had been deployed.
 
 “Of the 206 students, 42 are from Shivamogga, 57 from Tumakuru, 14 from Madikeri, eight from Anekal, five from Chamarajpet and 25 from Bommanahalli. I am not sure about the rest,“ Ishiyaq Khan, a coordinator, told TOI. “We are gathering more information on these students,“ SP N Chaitra said.
 
 Bengaluru City police commissioner Praveen Sood told TOI there was no need to worry . “After receiving the tipoff, we decided to look into the matter and took CWC officials with us. We found they were school students and their teachers were accompanying them,“ he said.
 
 
 
 Nahim Ataulla, head of a madrassa in Tumakur, said, “We boarded the train at Guwahati on Sunday morning. On Monday, someone asked us who we were and where we were heading to. I said I am a teacher and was returning to our school with my students. To my surprise, a wrong message was passed about us even before we reached the city. It is unfortunate. We are happy police officials did not harass us. They let us go after checking our documents including train tickets,“ he said. According to police sources, a person, identified as Shivananda Nayak, is said to have passed the information to TV channels about children being allegedly trafficked. “TV journalists approached us with Nayak's version of trafficking. He gave us the same narrative when we spoke to him,“ a senior police officer said.
 
