TIRUVANNAMALAI: Even after several hours after a group of vanniyar youths unleashed a deadly attack, which claimed the life of a 33-year-old electrician, residents of   were in a state of panic. They said life would not be the same as they did not feel safe even inside their homes.

 For   and his family, it was a black Sunday. His son, Venkatesan, was working as an electrician in a college in Chennai, and came home Sundays. His family had been searching for a bride for Venkatesan. “We don’t know why we were attacked, but we lost our elder son and my second son Adi Kesavan has sustained critical injuries,” said Madhavan.
 
 When the youngsters from Chellaperumpulimedu attacked the dalit colony, Venkatesan was returning from the weekly shandy after purchasing vegetables for the family. He was attacked and abducted by the   in a two-wheeler. Kesavan who came to the rescue of his brother was also attacked and abducted. They were brutally attacked and dumped at Mankkal Junction that was about 15 km from Puliyarampakkam. His mother and sisters were inconsolable. 
 
 Recollecting the Sunday riot, a government employee said he feared whether he and his family of eight, including five children, would survive the night.
 
  “It was a pre-planned attack. The gang were armed with sickles, iron rods fitted with wooden handles, crowbars and logs and stormed into the village and attacked whoever they saw. They broke open the door and forced into the house. I pleaded them not to harm us and told them children and women were in the house. They threatened to kill us,” he said.
 
  A resident of Puliyarampakkam, which has a population of around 2,800, he said the village had never witnessed a   or any problems. “We have been living in peace all these years. But everything has changed now,” he added.
 
 Bhaviya, 24, who runs a petty shop at the entrance to the dalit colony, said they attacked the shop. “I was sitting with my two-year-old daughter and pleaded with them to stop attacking, but they continued. They attacked three persons standing in the shop and several others who came out on hearing our screams. Luckily, I took refuge under the chair,” she said.
 
