THIRUVAIYARU (THANJAVUR): Carnatic   is steadily finding a growing fan base among the youth many of who also look up to it as a career option. Nothing demonstrates this better than the impressive array of young aspiring vocalists who rubbed shoulders with veteran Carnatic singers at the   which concluded here on Tuesday.

 Paying musical homage to Saint Thyagaraja on his 170th samadhi day, Carnatic musicians from across the world came together to sing “Pancharatna Kritis” in chorus at the five-day-long event which was inaugurated by renowned singer  .
 
 For most young singers attending the annual event -- many of them have been coming here since childhood -- it has been a training ground where they not only perform but also get an opportunity to meet renowned singers at one place and get their blessings.
 
 “The crowd here is progressively increasing, especially the youth who have been showing much inclination towards Carnatic music in recent times. We are now ready to take it up as a profession,” said N J Nandini, a young singer who came all the way from Kerala. Honoured with the title of Pannisai Arasi (queen of classical music) at the event, she said that “watching the frontline senior musicians at the Aradhana and their popularity, youth have been coming forward to take up music as their profession.” 
 
 Sudha Raghunathan feels that Carnatic music is picking up in a very big way compared to the lull a decade ago which had caused a bit of concern. “Today we see a lot of youngsters taking it up as their profession and working on it very seriously. Opportunities have opened up immensely as corporates are supporting it,” she said. She said there was much scope for development but it felt good to see it progressing on the right path. 
 
 “All aspiring singers must earmark a day in a year to sing at Thyagaraja Keerthana,” says renowned Indian and western classical singer from Chennai S J Jananiy. “It feels great to be identified by very senior artists at the Aradhana since I have been coming here right from my childhood. Music gave me this identity,” she said. According to her, it was an occasion to learn professionalism and bhakthi as well. 
 
 “Though we sing here for hardly 20 minutes we come all the way to Thiruvaiyaru which is a way of paying homage to Saint Thyagaraja,” said a budding vocalist G Raghunathan. He said classical music was gaining popularity across world and it wouldn’t be a wrong decision to take it up as a profession. “My parents too share my opinion,” he said. 
 
 “We can feel the divinity in the air as we sing   together with those who have learned music and not. This event happens without any rehearsal too. It’s a great event to witness,” said an avid fan of Carnatic music S Chitra from Coimbatore. 
 
 “Earlier, there wasn’t any order in which the singers used to sit to recite the kritis and there were chances of singers going out of sync. However, this time we made elaborate arrangements by providing prominent space for musical scholars,” said a member of the governing body of the event Neyveli Radhakrishnan. Renowned classical singers like S Mahathi, Charulatha, Mahanadhi Shobana and O S Arun were among those who recited Pancharatna Keerthana on Tuesday.
 
 
