AURANGABAD: Bowing down to pressure by corporators from  , the   on Saturday directed the   to relieve deputy municipal commissioner Ravindra Nikam of anti-encroachment  

 Mayor Bapu Ghadamode said Nikam has failed to remove illegal encroachments from the city. “The municipal administration should give the responsibility of this crucial department to some other efficient officer,” said Ghadamode.
 
 Interestingly, Nikam who was present in the meeting when Ghadamode passed the order, was seen smiling. Sources in the civic body said Nikam, who was overburdened with the additional charge of many departments, took a sigh of relief when the charge of   department was withdrawn from him.
 
 Earlier, Shiv Sena corporator Rajendra Janjal alleged that there was an unholy nexus between officers in the anti-encroachment department and anti-social elements. “Many people are acting as agents in the department who pressurise innocent residents by threatening to take action against their unauthorised constructions and by offering them to settle the deal with the civic body,” he said.
 
 Janjal said municipal authorities are asking residents to contact these agents to resolve their issues. “A corrupt practice is being carried out here which is exploiting the citizens,” he said.
 
 Another Sena corporator Raju Vaidya said Nikam never takes phone calls of corporators. “On many occasions, we try to contact him to discuss various issues but he is not available even on phone. If he is so busy in his assignments of other departments, the civic body should allot the charge to some other officer,” he said.
 
 MIM corporator Naser Siddiqui said a woman from Fakirwadi has been visiting the municipal corporation’s office for the past two months demanding action against the illegal construction in front of her house but Nikam and his subordinates are paying no heed to her plea. The officers only lend ears to grievances of those who grease their palms,” he said. Naser said the municipal body took no time to demolish the historic Damdi Mahal.
 
