Tables at his pop-up restaurants may go for Rs 15,000 upwards but for Asia's #1 chef  , the thrill of the job lies in thinking up out-of-the-box dishes in his kitchen and giving consumers an `exclusive' experience

 Gaggan Anand wears his success casually. In today's political correct times, he is an image of non-conformity . “I have stopped talking diplomatically . I am never politically correct. I have my PR manager constantly requesting me, `Can you keep your calm please?'“ he jokes during the course of the hour-long interview.The 39-year-old was recently in the city as par t of his muchanticipated 4-city pop-up tour with the Taj group of hotels. Priced at Rs 15,000 plus taxes and a limited seating for 25 guests, the pop-up has been the talk of the town. It was, after all, for the first time that he was hosting a pop-up dinner in Bengaluru and Chennai.Surprisingly, for conservative cities not known for overt splurging, reservations for the exclusive dinner sold out within a day of the announcement. Anand is pleased with the response. “I chose to include Bengaluru and Chennai in the tour for selfish reasons and while there were concerns among the team if people would book tables, I was sure,“ he says.
 
 I AM NOT A BRAND
 
 There's self-assuredness there, but this journey of his from being `chef Gaggan' to `brand Gaggan' has been a long one and has had its share of ups and downs. A celebrity chef who is recognized by his first name, has he become a brand now? Anand refutes it.
 
 “I am not a brand. If I was a brand I would have worn something more formal, not hawai chappals,“ he jokes adding, “A brand would have meant that you'd have had a   Anand PR kit handed to you even before you sat down. I don't have any pretensions. I became famous from nothing and I think that is what makes me personable to everyone.My team and I still don't believe that we are a brand. We are a restaurant, I am a chef and I love cooking. It's that simple.“
 
 BREAKING RULES
 
 “Five years back, I was hungry for success. Now, it doesn't make a difference at all. My hunger for success has gone. I am a more real person now,“ he says. This Zen attitude towards success has made Anand braver to experiment with unthought-of dishes, flavours and ingredients. “Now I do what makes me happy.“ And what makes Anand happy is breaking rules and not subscribing to `triedand-tested' formulas. His decision to serve paan at the beginning of the pop-up dinners is just one instance of his non-conformist at titude. “I may not be able to make a five meter dosa or naan. Those require specialty skills. What I do is I twist things and turn them i n t o my ow n i n n ovat i o n s, “ he says.
 
 One such innovation that he happily talks about is his much-feted dish, Charcoal.“When I was looking to make looking to make crispy batter, I realised that the batter used to make jalebis was probably the crispiest in the world. Then, instead of thinking inside-the-box, I decided to create savoury tempura out of it. I added vegetable ash (made from burnt eggplant or onion) to make it black,“ recounts Anand. Charcoal today is one of the most popular dishes served in the 25-course menu at his eponymous restaurant in Bangkok.
 
 KEEP IT EXCLUSIVE
 
 Coming back to the pop-up, a question that hangs in the air is its price. A table for Rs 15,000 per head is sheer indulgence, no? For Anand, it's less about the premium price and more about ensuring an exclusive experience for the customer. “My guru in PR is Steve Jobs. He could have made 20 times more phones and made them af fordable. But he taught me how exclusivity makes a product premium, not its high price,“ says Anand.
 
 What he also likes to point out is that it hasn't stopped true food lovers from digging into their pockets. in Delhi, we had a chef whose wife paid Rs 24,000 and gifted him a table at the pop-up for his birthday . But because they could only afford one ta ble, only he attended it. I like giving attention to people like this couple,“ says Anand.
 
 Talking about exclusivity , GohGan, his next venture after he shuts Gaggan in 2020, is going to be uber exclusive. “I am opening it in  , in 2021, because it's less accessible. It will be a 10-seater and will be open every alternate month of the year. “The way I see it, I cooked till the 30s in Gaggan. In my 40s and 50s, I need some peace.“
 
