CHENNAI: The preparation part is over, it's time to execute the plans. India and   are all set to renew their rivalry in the limited-overs format beginning with the first ODI here at the MA Chidambaram Stadium on Sunday.   and Co have been nothing but phenomenal in demolishing a below-par Sri Lankan side. However, Australia had an indifferent run with their early Champions Trophy exit and then they had a tough time levelling the Test series against Bangladesh.

 Both teams had to deal with opening setbacks going into the series.   is unavailable for India and the hard-hitting Aaron Finch is unlikely to feature for the visitors due to a calf injury.
 
 Ajinkya Rahane will open with Rohit Sharma, with skipper Kohli saying that the management is backing the former at the top. Although skipper Kohli stressed that they “would back” a misfiring Rahul, it remains to be seen if he will be part of the starting XI for the series opener.
 
 Manish Pandey, in the last two ODIs against Sri Lanka, came up with crucial knocks and even replaced Rahul at No 4 in the final ODI. “There'll always be competition for a particular spot. KL is an outstanding talent, he has proved himself in all formats. And he is someone who needs to be backed because we believe that he has the ability. Once he gets his job done, he'll start winning us games,” Kohli backed Rahul to the hilt.
 
 As for Australia, Hilton Cartwright, who opened in the warm-up match against Board President's XI, is likely to share the duty with  . Peter Handscomb, who joined the squad on Saturday, however is available and the team management will take a final call on Sunday.
 
 Both batting units have some quality, but it's the quality of bowling that separates the two teams. The likes of Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Shami, Umesh Yadav and Bhuvneshwar Kumar know how to be effective on flat batting conditions. Australia lack the quality of Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood and it will be on pacers Pat Cummins, Nathan Coulter-Nile and Kane Richardson to trouble the Indian top-order. The fact that all three have IPL experience should stand them in good stead.
 
 Kohli had hinted that he would like to go in with two allrounders in Hardik Pandya and Axar Patel. But Axar suffered an ankle sprain on Friday while playing football in practice and was ruled out for the first three ODIs.
 
 Ravindra Jadeja has been called in as a replacement and will be available. In case skipper Kohli prefers to give Jadeja, who has been resting for a while, some time to get back into the groove, he has the option of playing both the wrist spinners Kuldeep Yadav and Yuzvendra Chahal.
 
 Australia's spin hopes will centre around leggie Adam Zampa, with Head and Maxwell filling in for the fifth bowler's slot.
 
 
 
 The dew factor in India around this time of the year often makes things easier for the team batting second. A wet ball makes life miserable for spinners while de fending even huge totals. However, the groundsmen at Chepauk insist there hasn't been any dew over the past few days.
 
 
