AHMEDABAD:   will be a relative cakewalk this year, as the number of students clearing the board examinations in A Group (physics, chemistry and mathematics) is lower than 67,203, the number of seats available. Only 54,575 students cleared the examination in A Group. 

  However, according to officials, the 10,000-odd   students, the number of candidates will be around 64,000, which will still mean 3,000-odd seats more than students eligible for admission.
 
 Board officials said that according to the criteria fixed by the   for technical education, a student will be eligible for admission to engineering colleges on scoring 45% marks in science theory subjects (mathematics, physics and chemistry).
 
  The officials pointed out that if the 45% criteria is to be followed, only 38,510 students have cleared the examination with 40% or better in the science subjects.
 
 Officials said the Gujarat government will be required to dilute the parameters to include practical marks and optional subjects, to raise the number of students qualifying for admission with the 45% criteria.
 
 Officials said with the number of students qualifying this year being low, there are apprehensions that even more seats will remain vacant. Last year 29,000-odd seats had remained vacant despite the admission parameters being diluted drastically. Officials said that the parameters will be diluted this year as well.
 
 Officials pointed out that around 25% of students who cleared the examination will prefer science colleges and the top layer will opt for admission to the NITs and IITs. Officials estimate that around 33,000-odd seats will remain vacant this year and several colleges will not have even get a single student. These colleges will be mainly those in rural areas.
 
 Intake process to begin on Friday.
 
 The admission committee for professional courses has decided that the admission procedure for engineering colleges will begin on Friday. Forms will be distributed till the first week of June. The delay in admissions will be because CBSE results are yet to be declared. PIN numbers and passwords will be available for Rs 350 at branches of a private bank.
 
