Chennai: The DMK on Wednesday accused the AIADMK government of introducing NEET in Tamil Nadu to promote coaching centres across the state. The DMK, the Congress, the CPI, the CPM, the VCK, the IUML and other smaller parties staged protests across the state against NEET and demanded a probe into the death of medical aspirant S Anitha.

 Leading the protest against NEET in Tambaram near Chennai, DMK working president M K Stalin said, “The government is setting up coaching centres to train medical aspirants. But each student will have to pay Rs 3 lakh to get trained. Is it possible for students from rural areas to pay such a huge amount?” He said the government was trying to promote these centres with a profit motive.
 
 Reacting to the accusations by the BJP and the AIADMK that it was during the DMK regime that NEET was introduced, Stalin said there was no denial that NEET was introduced when DMK was in power.
 
 “But the first person to oppose NEET was DMK president and then chief minister M Karunanidhi. Unlike BJP state president Tamilisai Soundararajan, I speak with evidence as I am the son of Karunanidhi,” asserted Stalin.
 
 “The party wrote a letter to the then Union health minister Ghulam Nabi Azad against implementing NEET. On January 6, 2011, we filed a case against NEET in the Madras high court and obtained a stay. Later Supreme Court scrapped NEET,” he said.
 
 He wanted to know the fate of the two bills passed in the assembly seeking exemption for Tamil Nadu from NEET. Stalin said there would be another all-party meeting and future course of action and protest would be announced in the next few days. “The next protest against the state government might be the last one to make the government resign,” said Stalin.
 
 TNCC chief S Thirunavukkarsar led the protest at Valluvar Kottam, and DMK Rajya Sabha MP Kanimozhi and others participated in it. Former TNCC chief E V K S Elangovan led the protest at Adambakkam. CPM state secretary G Ramakrishnan led the protest in Tirunelveli and CPI state secretary R Mutharasan at Tiruvarur.
 
 
