MUMBAI: Don’t be surprised if the   or   of women contesting the   attend to your calls. They have taken over the task of attending calls, organizing campaigns and coordinating with party leaders as most of them are no longer eligible to contest from their erstwhile seats because of changes in reservation—114 of the 227 wards have been reserved for women in the 2017 BMC election. 

 Civic officials believe that even after such female candidate win the polls, they will remain mere rubber stamps, while their husbands or fathers will continue to run the political business from behind the curtains. Chetan Kadam, sitting corporator from Borivli, was among those who lost his seat due to reservation. He then switched from MNS to Shiv Sena and negotiated a ticket for his wife Bharti from the ward. Now, Kadam is taking care of the entire campaign and shadowing his wife in padyatras.
 
 When TOI contacted   on the phone numbers provided in their election affidavit, on most occasions, the call was answered by a male family member.
 
 Pooja Fulari, probably the youngest candidate in the BMC polls at 21 years and three months, is contesting on a Congress ticket from ward number 119. When TOI called her to know more on what motivated her to contest the civic elections at such a young age, her brother answered and said she was not available. Later, Fulari returned the call and said she is confident that people will vote for her as she is ‘a new face and educated’. She also said that her family is active in the politics and her total assets is worth Rs 76,000.
 
 Another classic example of how a woman candidate has probably only been fielded owing to the changed reservation in the ward is that of Varsha Dawande (21), a Science graduate. She has filed her nomination from Powai area on an MIM ticket. When TOI called her, she handed over the phone to her father, Kharbhari Dawande. He said that he has been working for MIM since the last three years and when the ward was reserved for women he decided to field his daughter. “As the ward has a ST women reservation, I thought my daughter being well educated was perfect to contest,” said Kharbhari. When he handed back the phone to Varsha on TOI’s insistence, she said, “I have a lot of support from the nearby communities and am sure that I would be able to make a mark.”
 
 I have a lot of support from the nearby communities and am sure that I would be able to make a mark
 
 
