JAIPUR: National secretary of the   Amarjeet Kaur said on Friday that workers and farmers have faced enormous hardship since the note-changing exercise announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 8. Corruption has not ended – in fact, new forms of corruption were reported as mints supplied notes in large quantities to the homes of some powerful individuals, side-stepping the procedure of handing notes to banks, she told a press conference. Fake notes of the new Rs 2000 denomination have also been found. As for terrorism, about 40 soldiers have died in attacks by terrorists since November 8, so that too has not happened, she said.

 Kaur said that seeing that the intended effects of the note-changing exercise have not panned out as initially announced, the government has changed tack and claimed that the aim of the exercise was to introduce a cashless system – the first ATM in the country was introduced just 21 years ago and going cashless is a slow process that should be allowed to occur with time, she said. “The government is only shoving this down poor people’s throats with the intention of benefitting large corporates. The companies that handle card payments are 90% foreign ones, mostly headquartered in the US. The government must announce who it intends to benefit. Is it working for the people of India, or only for the rich corporates, some of many abroad?” she asked.
 
 Kaur also came down heavily on the move announced just a week ago to list five government-owned insurance companies in the stock market and reduce government holdings in these from 100% to 75%. “These are companies from which the government earns money. The government does not spend on these. If there are problems and the public’s money is thrown down the drain in the stock markets, will the government then own responsibility?” she asked.
 
 She said the Modi government was out to destroy the spine of public sector companies that were doing quite well. “Oil India would earlier supply the railways, now those supplies are being procured from private firms like Adani and Reliance. Public sector bank officials are set to go on strike on February 7 to protest government moves for merger, which will ultimately make them weaker and pave the way for greater profiteering by foreign banks,” she said.
 
 As a result of what is called demonetisation, “Assocham, manufacturers associations and the auto industry have come out with surveys that show a 30-50% loss in manufacturing. Reverse migration is happening in labour,” she said.
 
 Economists from across the world have condemned this move of the Modi government, the   leader said, adding that the party would go into campaign mode to expose the lies the government propagates. A programme of meetings in phases across the districts of Rajasthan is planned as the first part of the campaign, which will culminate in a mass rally in Jaipur.
 
 Kaur also condemned the statement by RSS leader Manmohan Vaidya that caste-based reservation should end. Later, the RSS clarified that its position in the matter was that reservations should exist for as long as discrimination exists in society.
 
