GURUGRAM: Dance has been Nikhil Chaudhary’s life, at least until a couple of years back. Now, this 28-year-old from Gurgaon is basking in the glory of having produced a film that’s earning much appreciation on the film-festival circuit.

 ‘Mantra’, featuring Kalki Koechlin, Rajat Kapoor, Lushin Dubey and Adil Hussain, had its world premiere at the Mumbai Film Festival in October, and visited Goa for the International Film Festival of India in November. And in December, ‘Mantra’ travelled to New York for the prestigious South Asian International Film Festival (where it was nominated in the drama category). 
 
 It has made for an auspicious introduction to the world of cinema for someone who, before getting into films, was a member of celebrated choreographer Shiamak Davar’s troupe for six years. But a knee injury forced him to look elsewhere for inspiration. “I directed a short, three-minute film, just for the experience, because I didn’t know anything – I just had my camera!” Chaudhary told TOI.
 
 ‘Mantra’ has been written and directed by Shillong man   Kharkongor, who Chaudhary met through a common friend. “He had come up with a great script, and when I joined they were looking for producers.
 
 “Nicholas had in mind that he would crowdfund the film. Thankfully, people from all over the world chipped in because they believed in the concept of the film.” 
 
 ‘Mantra’ is a poignant tale about the opening up of India’s economy. The owner of an iconic snacks brand finds his company buffeted by the winds of liberalisation, and his family consumed by crisis. It is, says Chaudhary, “an intimate story” of one man trying to save his family and his business.
 
 In Mumbai, ‘Mantra’ had a couple of shows, one of them in front of a packed audience. “MAMI was big, we got a lot of mileage there. These festivals give a buzz to the film, and the more festivals we get to show it in, the better our chances of getting a theatre partner,” he believes. 
 
 Chaudhary has already started work on his second project, a film heavy on visual effects. “This is a more commercial film – and yes, it has songs!
 
 “But it has an intelligent script – it’s a kind of horror-cum-thriller-cum-whodunit.” And does he fancy being a director one day? “It’s far-fetched right now. It takes hard work and much thought process. But I’m happy working with different people.” The journey’s just begun for  .
 
