NAGPUR: Over two decades after the Amravati-based doctor was convicted for negligence that led to patient’s death, the   acquitted her while relying on an old judgment observing that “it wasn’t possible for any doctor to assure or guarantee that the result of   would invariably be positive”.

 Petitioner Dr Jayashree Ingole was held responsible along with other doctors for patient’s death on August 20, 1997 at   in Amravati, where she was visiting surgeon. On complaint of deceased’s relatives, she was booked under Section 304 A of IPC with other doctors.
 
 Her plea for quashing the criminal proceedings initiated against her were dismissed by the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on June 18, 2014. It was challenged in the apex court through senior counsel Anil Mardikar assisted by  .
 
 The patient was admitted after an accident and was suffering from  , a disease in which there is impairment of blood clotting. Therefore, special attention was required to be paid during the treatment. After he suffered abdominal pain on September 5, 1997, the petitioner was called to examine him. Accordingly, she reached the hospital, and advised that the patient needs a physician and left the place. Next day, his condition worsened and he succumbed to the injury.
 
 On a police complaint, charges were framed against Dr Ingole, Dr Avinash Choudhary and Dr Manohar Mohod. A departmental enquiry was also carried out and, all three were held negligent in performing duties. Dr Mohod was debarred from an annual increment as penalty, Dr Ingole was permanently prohibited from entering Irvin Hospital and Dr Choudhary was transferred. However, Dr Mohod was later discharged by the high court.
 
 Citing the law laid down in Jacob Mathew’s case, the top court observed that this is not a case where the appellant should face trial especially when 20 years have already elapsed. “This may be an error in judgment but is definitely not a rash and negligent act contemplated under Section 304-A. In the facts and circumstance of this case, it can’t be said that the appellant is guilty of criminal negligence. At best, it is an error of judgment. We’re of the view that no case is made out against the appellant, a division bench comprising justice Madan Lokur and justice Deepak Gupta held, while quashing criminal proceedings against her.
 
