A few days ago, a city youngster came across a video showing some men in   (near Akola), brutally beating five monkeys and later throwing them all on a handcart like a maniac. While most of the people who saw the video were aghast at the cruelty of the men, a city youngster   decided to teach the inhuman guys a lesson. She filed a complaint with the forest department of   to ensure that strict action is taken against them…

 
 
 When we contacted the  , Akola,  , he said, “There were three men, who had brutally beaten five monkeys when they entered their home at Telhara. They were heavily drunk and trapped the monkeys; they beat them so badly that two monkeys’ skull caps were fractured. The animals were bleeding from the mouth and nose. We took them to the hospital but two of them succumbed to the injuries. Remaining three, who were the stronger of the lot, survived and after treating them we have left them in the nearby forest area. We really hope that they survive.”
 
 
 
 The RFO assured that the men behind this heinous act will not go unpunished. He added, “We have arrested two men although the third one is still absconding; they were booked under section nine of Wildlife Protection Act. We had requested forest custody remand for the men, since it was a case of extreme cruelty, and the Judicial Court, Telhara, has put them in our custody for three days. We will try for the most severe punishment for the men, who are a slur on humanity and hope that they get three to seven years’ punishment for this atrocity,”
 
 
 
 The firebrand youngster, Smita, who pushed the wheels of justice, said, “I’m really happy that the honourable court and forest officials are going all out to ensure justice for the monkeys, who have as much right to live and thrive as any of us. And if the men who killed and beat the monkeys in such a brutal manner, try to escape law, I will ensure that we take adequate steps. This case has to be taken to its logical conclusion and the guilty have to be punished well and proper.”
 
 
  
