BENGALURU: In an attempt to ensure the smooth integration of FreeCharge with  , employees of the payments platform are being given a sixmonth retention bonus, according to people aware of the development. The letters are being handed to the employees of FreeCharge following the 
  to private sector lender Axis Bank last week for Rs 385 crore.

 Sources said the payouts were being made to ensure that employees don't quit the firm while Axis Bank takes over FreeCharge. These retention bonuses are being given based on employees' seniority and the time spent in the organisation. 
 
 Separately, Snapdeal's largest investor   has been orchestrating its merger with bigger rival  . But the process which is still under way with multiple hurdles has restricted the completion of the deal. An email sent by TOI to a spokesperson of   did not elicit a response.
 
 People aware of the retention bonus being handed out said that the move is linked to employees stock ownership plan (ESOPs) since FreeCharge's valuation eroded significantly over the last one year. "These ESOPs are of little or no value at all. So, getting a retention bonus for a six-month period is a sound option to go for," a person aware of the development told TOI. Snapdeal had bought FreeCharge which was valued at $400 million then.
 
 "There is a formula based on which the payouts are being finalised. Employee performance along with seniority and the duration of association with the company are key metrics," another person aware of the development said.
 
 The retention bonus being given to employees is for a period of six months and those choosing to leave the company after a month or so will be only be given part of the bonus. 
 
 
  that Snapdeal founder and CEO Kunal Bahl wrote to employees indicating the all-cash FreeCharge deal with Axis Bank has given the struggling marketplace one more chance to script a turnaround. This newspaper also reported in its July 28 edition that SoftBank has now toughened its stand on the merger and may go ahead and invest in Flipkart separately without taking along Snapdeal. With fresh cash from selling Freecharge to Axis Bank, Snapdeal has the option of running its operations independently or merging with another entity. Over the past few months, SoftBank has struggled to get all the existing Snapdeal investors on the same page. As of now, Flipkart's $900 million offer to buy Snapdeal needs approval from all of Snapdeal's shareholders, as per demands made by Flipkart.
 
 
 
 
 
