BHOPAL: Away from the political din of the state capital, a handful of villagers launched a ‘jal satyagrah’ (protest in water) against illegal   in   in Chattarpur district.

 The villagers entered neck-deep water of Ken river in village Hinota, about 150 kms away from the district headquarter of Chhatarpur district bordering UP.
 
 The   started at 3 pm and continued till late. As the villagers were standing with difficulty in neck-deep water, the women and children were seen boosting their confidence from the river bank.
 
 Two patwaris visited the spot and left to report the matter to the district administration.
 
 “Mechanised sand mining is continuing the whole night and should be stopped. The sand mafia has constructed a road connecting all the mines, we want this road to be demolished,” said   sarpanch of Baghari village panchayat who also participated in jal satyagrah.
 
 Raja Bhaiya Singh a villager of Hinota said, “We also want action against the miner of Hinota who has been excavating sand from the river with heavy machinery.”
 
 These villagers were sitting on an indefinite dharna against the mining for 10 days and had threatened to hold jal satyagrah if no action was taken.
 
 Sunita Singh, woman sarpanch of Hinota panchayat said, “Mining mafia is violating the mechanised farming ban every day. Now mining takes place during the night and sand is transported under the cover of darkness. Whole day the earth moving machines can be seen parked few meters away from the river bank”.
 
 “I did not enter the water. But all the women of the village are committed to the cause”, said Sunita Singh adding, “We will join the village men if the government doesn’t react soon.”
 
 Villagers said manual sand mining is difficult especially in the scorching summer. So, the only difference is that the mining activities have stopped during the day. But the operations are continuing in the night.
 
 District collector Chhatarpur Ramesh Bhandari said a sub divisional magistrate (SDM) has been sent to the village to talk to the villagers and settle the issue.
 
