THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: ‘There is no friend as loyal as a book’, goes the old saying and the students at the   here are all spruced up for a doting relationship with over one lakh of them. A new   with over one lakh books, archives and e-books was inaugurated by education minister   here on Friday.

 “Along with the development of infrastructure, ensuring the quality of education is equally important. Nowadays, we see widespread initiatives to develop infrastructure and facilities, but the quality of education sees little or no growth at all,” said the minister.
 
 He also mentioned about the importance of having an in-depth knowledge in the respective areas of study. “It is easy to get high marks and a job. But what is more important is to acquire in-depth knowledge about the subject which will be of help all through the life,” he said.
 
 The separate libraries of various departments were merged together to form a single centralized library, which was completed utilizing a fund of Rs 3 lakh from the government. The library was constructed within a period of 18 months and has a total of four floors.
 
 The ground floor will be exclusively for books while the second and third floors will be for research students, which will have stack rooms for archives as well as old and rare volumes of journals and magazines. The top floor will be an e-library, where students can access internet facilities until 5pm in the evening. The library also houses rare archives such as hand-written copies of the constitution which are now preserved in digital form.
 
 At the event, the minister also laid the foundation stone for the new block of the English department, which is exclusively for the three-year BA (Hons) course. “The BA Honours course is very rare in Kerala and presently only four colleges have the course. We have received Rs 11 crore for the building, which will have all modern amenities such as interactive boards, seminar halls and language labs,” said principal   D.
 
 Various other projects such as smart classrooms, Wi-Fi facility, modernization of labs and centralized computer labs are also planned by the school authorities. “We have received Rs 8.85 crore from the government’s ‘centre of excellency’ scheme for infrastructure development. The proposal for the projects will soon be handed over to the authorities concerned,” said HoD of Maths department Shirley Vallanthra.
 
