AMARAVATI: Chief minister   said the opposition party is making baseless allegations against his government. 

 Making a fiery speech in the assembly on Monday, the CM said the opposition MLAs should be ashamed to make allegations against his government while working under a leader who had gone to prison on corruption charges. "We are not allowing a single rupee of public money to slip into the hands of middlemen. We are implementing all the government schemes through 100 per cent transparent system," he claimed. He said that actual beneficiaries are alone drawing pensions and fee reimbursement amounts in the state. He rubbished the talk of YSRC chief   about his proficiency in English.
 
 He said that opposition leader does not know anything about budgetary allocations and spending but keep on levelling false charges against the government. "You neither know anything nor ready to learn," he fumed. He said that he had virtually driven out corrupt people from the government system by using technology and new policies. He asked the opposition leader not to live in dreams.
 
 The CM jocularly said that even men withdrew widow pensions during the previous   regime and dead persons were handed over pensions of old-aged people. He said that the opposition seemed to be angry with his government for not allowing such practices to fill their pockets. 
 
 He fumed at the opposition for spreading false information particularly when he was working 24x7 to attract investments into the state.
 
 He suggested to the YSRCP leaders not to vitiate the atmosphere he built with his hard work in the interest of the state. He said that he would not tolerate any corrupt practices in the government. The CM said that he would welcome if any one gives good suggestions for the betterment of the system but ruthlessly handle in case anyone tries to derail development. 
 
 He wanted to know from   as to how he was responsible for the reports pertaining to 2012. He said that Jagan had failed to reply his queries as he had no knowledge about the expenditure or allocations. The opposition MLAs protested against the chief minister's remarks by raising slogans in the assembly.
 
 Meanwhile, TDP national general secretary, MLC Nara Lokesh expressed his happiness over the results of MLC elections. Lokesh tweeted, "Extremely happy that TDP has won Kurnool, Nellore and Kadapa seats in the MLC elections. This proves people's trust in our leader @ncbn."
 
 Earlier,   made shocking allegations that the TDP leadership spent Rs 300 crore to win three MLC seats. She said Jagan is a lion and has people's mandate. 
 
