KOCHI:   authorities' plan to extend the service of   (TCS), which failed to complete the e-governance project even after six years, has come under severe criticism from the local fund audit department. It has raised objections against allotting money to the company. Given the fact that the local body couldn't rectify the anomalies flagged by auditors even after one-and-a-half year, the corporation will find it difficult to make more allotments to the TCS thereby leading to stalling the project. 

 While conducting the audit of the corporation for 2014-15 fiscal, the audit department had pointed out many irregularities in the manner in which the project was implemented. The Rs 8.78 crore project was awarded to TCS on February 28, 2011 and the work should have been completed in two years. The firm failed to complete the work as per the agreement but was given extension several times. As per the auditors, the corporation authorities allotted an additional of Rs 10 lakh for preparing the software for Income and Accounts in 2015. Given the fact that the Sakhya, the software developed by the   (IKM) is being used for accounts in Kochi corporation, the local fund
 
 audit department questioned the propriety of deciding to go for a new software to replace the successfully running IKM software. Though the auditors sought explanations from the corporation authorities several times from 2015-2017, the local body didn't respond. The corporation authorities also failed to give satisfying answer on why Wipro, which was the consultant of the e-governance project, was given extension twice causing a loss of Rs 18 lakh for the corporation.
 
 As the corporation failed to respond to queries regarding the irregularities and take corrective measures even after a year, the local fund audit department in its latest audit report has objected to the allotment of 6 lakh given to TCS. 
 
 "I haven't gone through the latest audit report. Even if objections have been raised, the issue can be resolved by giving proper explanations," deputy mayor   told TOI.
 
  "The corporation authorities have failed to give explanations to the queries by local fund audit department for the past one-and-a-half years. How can they come up with clarifications now," asked V P Chandran, councillor belonging to opposition. 
 
 It was during Saturday's council meeting that the corporation authorities decided to give extension for TCS to complete the e-governance project.
 
