Chandigarh: A 28-year-old man was killed and his wife injured after a sports utility vehicle (SUV) hit their motorcycle in Sector 8 on Thursday night.

 Sumit, the son of an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) with the Chandigarh Police, had got married to Kusum six months back. The two were returning home in Maloya after attending the birthday celebrations of the son of Sumit’s brother-in-law at his house in Manimajra. When they reached near house number 516 in Sector 8 B, the SUV coming from Sector 7 hit their Enfield Bullet head-on, police said. The SUV then hit an electricity pole and damaged the boundary wall of a house before screeching to a halt. People gathered at the site after hearing the sound of the collision and informed the police. Sumit was taken to PGI, where he was declared brought dead. His wife was admitted to the trauma centre of the hospital. Doctors said her condition is stable.
 
 The SUV was being driven by Aneesh Diwan, a student of MA second-year in Panjab University (PU). Police said the vehicle was at a high speed. Diwan’s friend Arman was with him. Both hail from Shimla in Himachal Pradesh. The two received minor injuries. Arman was admitted to Government Multi-speciality Hospital, Sector 16, for treatment.
 
 On the complaint of the wife of the victim, the Sector 3 police registered a case under sections 304 A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Aneesh was arrested but later released on bail. Police said the medical report pointed out that he was not under the influence of liquor at the time of the  . On Friday, police handed over the body to family members after conducting the post-mortem.
 
 BOX
 
 1st day in office
 
 Sumit had recently secured a job in HDFC Bank and joined office on Thursday, a few hours before the accident took place. His father is an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and has been posted at the Sector police post which falls under the Sector 36 police station.
 
 BOX
 
 Risky stretch
 
 Residents of Sector 8 said the point has been become accident-prone. More than 40 accidents have been reported and around six people have lost their lives at this stretch since 2016. The reason is that during night hours people drive at a very high speed, residents said. There is a crossing between sectors 8 A and 8 B but there is no speed breaker to lower the speed of motorists and no traffic light point to indicate the road separating the two parts of the sector.
 
 
