NAGPUR: Sharing examples that highlighted the importance of music,  , a well-known figure in the world of music and literature, said that art is man’s distinctly human way of finding death.

 Deshpande was speaking at a ‘Sursarita’ event organized to commemorate the birth anniversary of well-known classical musician   He event was held at Granthsahawas, Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh, Sanskrutik Sankul, Sitabuldi, on Saturday.
 
 Gandharva’s most remarkable gift was his faith in innovation of new styles. He refused being tied down to any gharana, Deshpande said.
 
  Focusing on his early life, music teacher   said that Gandharva perfectly reproduced the khyal records of reigning maestros. 
 
 However, it was at a music conference in 1936 in Bombay, when he was 12, that Gandharva caught the attention of the then stalwarts of the Hindustani classical music, Mardikar added.
 
 Lastly she said, Kumar is the only Kumar of Hindustani classical music and no one can ever replace him. A short film ‘Sabad Nirantar’ was also screened here. 
 
 Gandharva had his own way of approaching different ragas. “His remarks on composite ragas, thumri, and tarana are different from the conventional ones.” 
 
 “Stories of Gandharva in this period depict a man lying in bed and listening to the sounds of birds, the wind and the passing street-singers around him”, said Mardikar.
 
 She also told people that Gandharva’s style won him appreciation from one and all. His style of pronunciation was unmatched and he believed that words, if pronounced properly with the right feeling can be very powerful. His singing style included many dramatic gestures and smiles, Mardikar added. 
 
 Likewise, Mardikar has very well given a brief description about the different faces of Gandharva’s life here. Lastly she said, Kumar is Kumar and only Kumar, no one can replace him ever.
 
 A short film ‘Sabad Nirantar’ was also screened here, which conspicuously explained about the continuing and constant exchanges of music among diverse worldwide and emotions of the indigenous spirit and its echoes enlivening the emergent soul. 
 
