Even as   (MU) struggles to meet the July 31-deadline set by the Governor for examination results, the heavy downpour on Monday afternoon did not deter students and teachers from coming together to protest the delay of their final-year results. They were all set to have a face-to-face interaction with Dr  , Vice Chancellor (VC), Mumbai University, and raise concern over the deadline overstepping beyond 45 days due to the newly-introduced   (OSM). 

 A third-year student of MU, Jyoti Advani says, “How am I even supposed to apply for the post-graduate course that I wanted to pursue? We will be forced to drop a year because of the sheer lack of proper marking system. We cannot afford to do that after working so hard.”
 
 
 
 It is the students who are facing the heat for the delay in checking of papers. Third-year student, Tanvi More planned to apply for a post-graduate course in another city, but now fears losing the opportunity to secure an admission there. “Not many colleges in the country have the policy to give you an admission based on your second-year marks. The college where I was seeking an admission had their deadline in the first week of July. How will I get an admission to the college of my choice now?” she questions. 
 
 
 Awaiting her semester VI results, Unnati Gala, final-year student of English Literature from Jai Hind says, “Even though I have got probationary admission at SNDT college, my seat is not secured until I get my third-year results. Also, there is a condition that I need to get over 50 per cent to guarantee my admission there. So, in case I feel the need to send my papers for re-evaluation, there is a chance that my admission can get cancelled.”
 
 
 
 Says Pranika Sharma, third year student of English literature, “International universities demand your final-year mark-sheet for admission to any of their courses. Right now the admission is provisional. Student visas have also not been granted, in fact they may get cancelled in some days. We have gone through an entire year’s process of filing for universities, but with the delay in marks, it seems like a distant dream.”
 
 
 
 Tapati Mukhopadhyay, President, Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (MFUCTO) says, “We are not against technological advancements. But, the VC should have introduced this process much before the examinations started, so that the teachers could acquaint themselves with the new marking system.”
 
 An English teacher of the university on condition of anonymity adds, “We had to wait through an entire one-and-half month (May till mid-June) period before getting calls to check papers online. We did not receive any formal training. A one-time-password (OTP) would be sent to our phone, which we could check only when the server after connected after 30 minutes. The internet provided by the university is slow, so it takes approximately 45-minutes to an hour to check one paper.”
 
 
 
 If the concern over the technical glitch was not enough, teachers assessing the papers have been asked to check 30 papers a day. General Secretary of   (BUCTU),   says, “It was more of a threat than a request. Teachers have been asked to complete paper checking by July 20. How can they make a demand like this considering the papers aren’t even getting uploaded? There is no proper internet connection or server placed.”
 
 BUCTU has demanded immediate withdrawal of the notice that reportedly threatens teachers about action taken if they do not check the stated number of 30-papers per day.
 
 
 
 Leeladhar Bansod, Public Relations officer, MU, says, “We are trying our best to come out with the results by the end of July. On a daily basis, we are assessing close to 50,000-60,000 sheets. Paper evaluation and moderation is happening at the same time. As far as a notice being sent as a threat is concerned, it’s a baseless allegation. Several professors have been proactive in correcting the papers. For instance, while many are making a fuss about the bandwidth and the internet connection, a professor from Karjat-Khopoli used his mobile’s hotspot to assess close to 900 answer-sheets in 10 days. It’s high time we stop coming up with issues and actually do something about it.”
 
 
