GURUGRAM: The   is now struggling to finalise locations for   in Gurgaon — a city criss-crossed by highways — in the wake of the Supreme Court’s recent order banning sale of alcohol near state and national thoroughfares.

 To add to the complications, resistance from citizens against setting up of vends in residential areas and marketplaces has shot up significantly in recent weeks apparently due to the buzz over the liquor ban issue. Excise officials said under the prevailing circumstances, the department was worried about its revenue targets in the 2017-18 fiscal .
 
 Under the   2017-18, the whole city has been divided into two districts — east and west. While the west district has 22 zones, the east district comprises 19 zones. “The allotment of licences for liquor vends happens annually. For the 2017-18, the department has already issued licences for each zone ahead of the financial year,” said a senior excise official.
 
 For example, the bid for Cyber Hub, which falls in the west district, was closed at Rs 56 crore, as against the reserved price of Rs 41 crore. Similarly, the licence for Sector 29 in the east district was issued for Rs 33 crore, as compared to the reserved price of Rs 29 crore. “Once a trader gets the licence, he is supposed to select locations for vends and send the proposals to the excise department for final approval,” the official added.
 
 But, the 500-metre limit from highways cancels out major possible locations both in east and west districts (excise), Gurgaon. Again, as per rules, liquor vends are already prohibited in the vicinity of schools, religious places and hospitals. 
 
 “Now, the number of representations from residents against liquor vend allocation has increased over the last one week,” the official added. 
 
 “Under this situation, the department may face difficulty in recovering licence fees, which allottees generally pay in instalments after setting up vends,” said another senior excise official. “So, it seems to be a tough year for us, we may find it difficult to meet the revenue targets.”
 
