NAGPUR: The actual process of acquiring land for the Nagpur-Mumbai Communication Super Expressway began on Thursday with sale deeds of six farmers’ land being registered at Hingna tehsil office. Eknath Shinde, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) minister, gave away Rs2.60 crore for 5.59 hectare.

 While hundreds of farmers have consented to give up their land for the ambitious project, this is the first time that land’s ownership has been actually transferred to the government. MSRDC, which is executing the project, transferred the money through   (RTGS) directly to the bank account of the six farmers.
 
 After a government resolution was issued last year, the state is paying project affected person only through RTGS. An MSRDC source said that those people affected by Gosikhurd irrigation were among the earliest to get compensatin through RTGS.
 
 Addressing a press conference later, Shinde said that the state government wanted to do the bhoomi pooja of the expressway on October 2. “We are confident of completing the land acquisition process by then. There are some problem pockets but we are holding talks with the farmers and will acquire land only with their consent,” he said.
 
 Elaborating on the progress of land acquisition process, Shinde said that out of 392 villages whose lands were required for the project, joint measurement had been completed in 371 villages. “Joint measurement is only done when we have farmers’ consent. Of the 700km length of the expressway, we have done measurement for 672.54km, which translates into 96%. MSRDC requires 207 hectares in Nagpur district. It has got consent for 82 hectares,” Shinde added.
 
 Farmers of Nasik district are resolutely against giving up their land for the Expressway. They have threatened to hang themselves rather than part with their land. The MSRDC chief said that talks were going on with farmers and, if required, he would personally hold a meeting with the protesting farmers.
 
 Commenting on tying up finances, MSRDC joint managing director Kiran Kurundkar said that the cost of the project was Rs46,000 crore including Rs6,000 crore interest component. “Five state government agencies MMRDA, MIDC, CIDCO, SRA and MHADA have been asked to lend Rs1,000 crore each to MSRDC. In addition to this, HUDCO has sanctioned Rs2,000 crore for land acquisition. Thus, we already have Rs7,000 crore out of the required Rs12,000 to Rs13,000 crore needed for acquisition,” he added.
 
 While Shinde, who belongs to  , is working hard for the success of the project, his political boss   makes frequent utterances opposing the project. Commenting on this dichotomy, the minister said, “Uddhav is not against the project. He only wants that land of farmers should not be taken away forcibly. He regularly tells me to hold parleys with farmers and meet their demands. The policy of the state government including chief minister Devendra Fadnavis is no different.”
 
 
