There was a time when the entire city boasted beautiful heritage structures that housed everything from offices, hospitals and homes. Over time, they have made way for newer structures, and the latest to fall victim to ‘development’ is the Government Veterinary Hospital on  . At a cost of `16.5 crore, the   plans to erect a swanky multi-specialty hospital in its place. But the one question that many are asking is, ‘Why?’

 
 
 Founding member of Citizens for Bengaluru and CXO  , who was part of a peaceful protest at the premises against the demolition on Sunday, says that the issue is three-fold — heritage structures being demolished, centuries-old trees being felled and the harm that will result from discontinuing the ABC programme (animal birth control), even temporarily. “This has been in the works for two years, but no one knew about it. There are British-style barracks on the campus that have already been dismantled to make way for a multi-storey veterinary hospital. Why do you even need it when there is a sprawling government veterinary hospital in   that is not even four kilometres away? The Queens Road campus is a general lung space in the city, which is set to be destroyed,” she says. 
 
 Priya adds, “There are trees that existed even before Independence — the trunk of the central mango tree is so thick that it takes nine people to just hug it. And now, they want to uproot it. How can you take away history? Putting the ABC programme on hold is like waiting for a Kerala to happen here (in 2016, two people died and many others were injured in stray dog attacks in that state after the government failed to control the population of stray dogs).”
 
 
 
 Bengaluru needs nine centres for the ABC programme, but there are only two — CUPA and  , the latter occupies a part of the Queens Road campus. This centre is vital for controlling the population of stray dogs in central and east Bengaluru, which it manages to do without basic requirements like kennels. So, it came as a surprise when it was claimed that the NGO was refusing to vacate the premises and relocate. When asked about this, Sarvodaya founder trustee   said, “The BBMP is my boss and they have not asked me to move. This is not my premises and I am not even paying rent, so why will I not agree to move? I have only been given oral instructions to vacate the premises, but not discontinue the ABC programme. How can I do that? This hospital doesn’t come even in the way of their construction since it’s in the corner of the campus. Even if I want to leave, there is no place in   where the ABC programme can be undertaken.”
 
 
  
 
 Vinay was asked by a   official to consider moving to a facility in Ulsoor, which, he says, even by the official’s admission is far from ideal. “The   facility has only three rooms and no kennels. It is surrounded by slums and people jump the boundary wall, so it is not safe. Also, I am told that people use that space to peddle drugs and indulge in other illegal activities. It is not suitable to conduct the ABC programme there,” says Vinay, who adds that not controlling the population of stray dogs will directly affect people, who will be prone to dog bites.
 
 
 
 When asked about what the BBMP is doing in this regard, Sarfaraz Khan, Joint Commissioner, Health and SWM, said that since there is a comprehensive plan to develop the Queens Road premises, Sarvodaya will have to vacate, but they are not being forced to move to any one facility. “Sarvodaya has asked to be allowed to continue on the premises, but there is a comprehensive plan to develop the area. I have spoken to Vinay and have asked him to find another facility in the area, for which we will pay the rent. Our officials are also looking for alternative places, but we are open to Sarvodaya finding a venue. Ultimately, we are rebuilding the hospital for the greater good of the public; there will be much better facilities and we will also undertake the ABC programme there. It is just a matter of a 1-1.5 years — the duration that it will take to build the new facility,” he says.
 
