PUNE: Almost 75 years after the   — or more popularly, the   — was formed by  , and later commanded by  , Puneites have a chance to view some rare   and the INA and retrace the journey of the INA.

 City-based Aashay Film Club on Thursday said this footage will be shown to the public on May 14. The English version of noted author Vishwas Patil’s book on Bose, Mahanayak will also be released at the National Film Archives of India (NFAI).
 
 “The Azad Hind Fauj has been our nation’s pride, and so is Subhas Chandra Bose. And we want to inform more people about their exploits. This is a chance for people to watch some rare footage preserved by the NFAI over so many years,” said Virendra Chitrav, of the Aashay Film Club.
 
 The event will also host to Patil as well as Milind Joshi of the Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad, who are scheduled to discuss the book and aspects of its English translation. A website commemorating the anniversary will also officially inaugurated.
 
 A city-based tour company, Offbeat Destinations, is offering, what it calls, a journey to “retrace” the journey of the INA from its formation. The tour will cover destinations from the formation of the “Second” INA by Bose in Singapore, and advance through Malaysia, Thailand, Myanmar (formerly Burma), ending at Manipur in present-day India. The tour, across the five countries ending in Kolkata, will run for the first 22 days of July.
 
 “Unlike other tour packages that offer to show only sea beaches and amusement parks in south-east Asian countries, this package includes the destinations which are interwoven with the history of the INA. For example, we will take tourists to visit the INA memorial in Singapore, the city where the INA was reorganised by Bose. The   will be interspersed with a visit to the erstwhile Azad Hind Bank, which was set up by Bose for the provisional government of India,” Nitin Shastri of Offbeat Destinations said.
 
 Organisers said they expect around 200 people to sign up for the tour, with most of the touring party being youngsters. They further added that around six researchers of literature and defence — former army personnel, professors — will also tour with the party.
 
