JAIPUR: After facing allegations of dilly-dallying in the  , the   have handed over the probe to the  .

 This was done a week ago and the local police was asked to keep the development under wraps.
 
 But, unhappy with the way the probe has progressed so far, Khan's family and the Meo community are looking at other viable legal options to ensure speedy justice. On Thursday , family members, who were in Jaipur, said they were planning to move a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court for a probe by the special investigation team (SIT). On April 1, 55-year-old   was waylaid by a mob in Alwar, while he was transporting cows to his small dairy farm, and publicly thrashed. Two days later on April 3, Pehlu Khan succumbed to his injuries in a hospital.
 
 TOI has received confirmation that the case has now been handed over to CB-CID on June 29 following government directions.
 
 The case was being investigated by additional SP, Kothputli, and the Meo community was reportedly satisfied with the investigation.
 
 When contacted, Pankaj Singh, additional director general (crime), said, “Yes, the family has been demanding a fair probe into the matter. So, the investigation has been handed over to CBCID.“
 
 When family members came to know about the developments through Sher Mohammed, sadar (head), Meo panchayat, Alwar, they came to Jaipur and met lawyers to take a legal opinion into the matter to get speedy justice.
 
 “I was constantly in touch with the additional SP, Koth putli, who was investigating the case. For the last couple of days when I was not been able to get in touch with him over the phone, I visited him.That's when I was told that the investigation has been handed over to CB-CID,“ Mohammed added.
 
 Angry with the development, he alleged, “It's a clear indication that the state government is not keen to give justice to Khan's family. It is an attempt to keep the case in cold storage. Even after three months, not a single accused responsible for his killing has been arrested.“
 
 Along with Khan's brother   (56) and the two sons of the deceased ­ Aarif (19) and Irshad (24) -Mohammed discussed the matter with high court lawyers. “We can't expect justice. So, we are planning to file a SLP in the Supreme Court and demand constituting a special investigative team (SIT) to probe the matter,“ Mohammed said.
 
