Having passed out as an engineering graduate from a prestigious institution in Tamil Nadu and yet not going the career way was no big mistake, feels singer  . This newbie in industry got his debut opportunity from   for  . And his song,  , has been playing on radios on loop. Excerpts from the interview: 

 
 
 I didn’t expect my debut track would be in such a big film. I am happy that it is in Hip Hop Tamizha’s music and in KV Anand’s film — that’s like two big pluses, which helped me propel the song further. Oxygen is a beautiful number. It would have made it to the charts even if it was not me who had sung it.
 
 
 
 I have my own channel on YouTube, where I have done some covers of popular Tamil numbers. Jeeva, one of the composers from Hip Hop Tamizha duo, stumbled upon one of my tracks, and called me to the studio. We recorded this song in a day or two. I have also recorded a couple of songs for other composers, but this happened to release first. Recording for them is great. The freedom they give for an artiste is wonderful. They give you the space to improvise on the track... it is not rigid, and there are no rules. They simply know how to get the best out of you. The song has an R&B feel and I put to use whatever musical knowledge I had into this number.
 
 
 
 My family pushed me into music when I was really young. I learnt classical music for about five years. But I lost interest. After I finished my schooling, I sort of explored my love for music again. I started going back to classes on my own. I took up Hindustani classical music lessons from Pandit Ballesh. Also, out of my own interest, I began learning music production and learning instruments. I managed all of this when I was doing my engineering in NIT Trichy. I later participated in a radio music reality show, where I won the title.
 
 
 
 I started the band with Shravan Sridhar and Vishnupriya Ravi. We do covers, produce original music and perform as well. We wanted to bring out a different sound. It was around that time when I started doing covers from November 2015. I used to do covers of popular Kollywood songs on Sound Cloud. Later, I realised that there is a very limited audience for this and began shooting videos with my team. Our first ‘hit’ cover was a mashup of Anirudh’s Neeyum Naanum and Un Vizhigalil. It was even shared by Anirudh. The next one was Thalli Pogathey; we were the first ones to do a cover for the song. Gautham Vasudev Menon shared it, and this gave us a big push. The last one that we put out was done in a live set-up, having an Irish folk rhythm feel. But doing covers did help me get noticed by the right people from the industry.
 
 
 
 I have recorded a song for Leon James. I have been working with Ghibran and Harris Jayaraj sir. I also have my own music going on. We are working on a remix of Chainsmoker’s Closer, where we will be mixing both English and Tamil lyrics.
 
 
 
 I can only try to stand out from the rest. I produce music, do covers and sing. I am putting myself out as someone who can write songs and also sing. The singer-songwriter concept is something that’s more popular in the west. Getting an opportunity to do playback singing is tough, though. To get an opportunity and that too in a film that will have a great reach is difficult. You have to pass through the music director, director and producer. Even for this song, the composer had to put in a word or two to retain my voice with the director. I am lucky that I got someone who can do this. But going by the new wave of composers in Kollywood, I guess things are changing.
 
