Nagpur: After a similar incident two months ago,   — the indigenous version of the 155mm guns developed in lines with the famed   howitzers — has missed the mark. For the third time, the guns have failed after reaching the last phase of tests.

 In May when six guns were being fired at one go, a shell hit the muzzle brake in one of the pieces. After that another round of trials was planned in July. Last week when the test fires were being undertaken, again a shell hit the muzzle brake, bringing the whole process back to square one. The guns are being manufactured at Gun Carriage Factory in  
 
 Muzzle brake is the component fitted on the top of the barrel. It helps in reducing the recoil created when a shell is fired. 
 
 An inquiry will have to be conducted now as questions are being raised about the barrel’s design. One of the theories is that the diameter of the muzzle needs to be increased to the original level so that the shell can freely fly out. 
 
 However, sources say a number of similar incidents have happened in the original 155mm Bofors guns too, despite the higher diameter in it. Even the Israeli 130mm gun upgraded to 155mm indigenously has seen similar problems. The muzzle brake in this gun has a smaller diameter as compared to Dhanush.
 
 “Only Dhanush cannot be faulted for a faulty muzzle brake as there have been numerous instances of muzzle breach in the original Bofors guns too. But the guns were continued by the  ,” said a source privy to the development.
 
 “There have been times when the entire team of suppliers of ammunition from South Africa had to camp at the Army headquarters. In the end, it was concluded that there was no fault in the ammunition. This means that the gun has to be blamed,” the source said. 
 
 Even the guns by Soltam, an Israeli firm, has seen such problems, the source said.
 
 Muzzle breach is not a new problem in artillery systems but it is certainly not desirable. There are higher chances of shell hitting the muzzle in a gun with a longer range as more power is added to the ammunition. But Bofors, which has lower range as compared to Dhanush, too was susceptible to muzzle hits. Once it happens, the shell cannot travel full range, explained a source.
 
 Last week’s incident has pushed back the process of inducting indigenous guns to the Army. These were the last rounds of trials. Rather, Dhanush had already passed the regular user-trials. In normal course after user-trials, the guns could be inducted in the Army. However, another step of user-exploitation has been introduced for Dhanush. Under this, further trials were held only to familiarize the forces with Dhanush.
 
 
