AHMEDABAD:   on Thursday completed hearing and kept its verdict reserved on a PIL demanding   into the incident of flogging of four   by   in Una, that took place in July last year.

  Petitioner Kanti Chavda demanded CBI investigation in this case on the ground that he did not have faith in the probe being conducted then by CID (crime). Earlier, a probe by the state’s top probe agency had failed to yield any result in the killing of three Dalit youths in Thangadh in 2012. The probe agency has has remained inactive in the Thangadh case and disregarded the failure, stated the petition. The gross negligence by state police in investigation was reflected when it filed summary reports in two cases in Thangadh firing. The PIL also accused CID (crime) of being inactive when it comes to taking action against other officials of Gujarat police.
 
 The petitioner also submitted that there was a nation-wide conspiracy to target people in the name of cow vigilantism and the state police did not look into this aspect. The petitioner expressed grievance that main accused persons in this case had been granted bail.
 
 The state government opposed the demand of CBI probe by citing an exhaustive chargesheet filed by CID (crime) in the  .
 
 On July 11, four dalit youths were severely beaten by cow protectors in Mota Samadhiyala village near Una in Gir Somnath district while they were skinning dead cows. They were brought to Una later, paraded and beaten in front of police station. After videos of this incident went viral on social media two days later, widespread protests started across the state.
 
 After the Una incident, a local NGO, Ambedkar Karavan, filed a PIL and demanded framing of rules about cremation of dead cows because they are considered ‘Gau Mata’. It sought directions to the authorities for protection of those engaged in skinning of the carcasses, and actions were demanded against hooligans working as cow vigilantes. This PIL also demanded rehabilitation of those who want to quit the profession of skinning carcasses.
 
