Surat: Diamantaires in the city are upbeat as the world’s largest and highest grade diamond mine of De Beers in Canada started its commercial production from Friday.  Gahcho Kue, a joint venture mine of De Beers and Mountain Province Diamonds, is expected to produce approximately 54 million carats of rough diamonds over its 13 years of lifespan. This means that around 4.5 million carat of high grade diamonds will flow into the Indian market.  Sources said India, being the largest diamond manufacturing centre, has a majority of diamond companies as the clients of De Beers which sells its rough diamonds through 10 sale sights from its Botswana facility. On an average, De Beers sells rough diamonds to the tune of $5.2 billion dollars every year and that more than half of the stock is purchased by Indian diamantaires based in Surat, Mumbai, Antwerp, Hong Kong, South Africa and Dubai. The diamonds sold by De Beers to its clients trickles down to the secondary market in Surat and Mumbai, where they are sold to small and medium diamantaires and even big companies.  Anglo American, which owns De Beers, announced its financial results for 2016 recently where the sales of rough diamonds rose by 37 per cent to $5.6 billion. This also helped revenues to rise by 30 per cent to $6.1 billion compared to $4.7 billion in 2015. However, the total rough diamond production at all its mines decreased by 5 per cent to 27.3 million carats reflecting the decision, taken in 2015, to reduce production in response to prevailing trading conditions. India’s annual rough diamond import is pegged between $15 billion to $16 billion. Around 90 per cent of rough diamonds mined around the world are imported in the country. The annual demand for rough diamonds is pegged at over 140 million carats. Industry experts said Canada is known for its high grade diamonds, which are world famous.  India being the largest manufacturer of high grade diamonds, will be largely benefited from the output achieved by De Beers at the Ghacho Kue mine.  Diamond analyst Aniruddha Lidbide said, “De Beers and Alrosa are the largest diamond mining companies in the world and that the increase in production is only going to help the Indian diamond industry.” 