MUMBAI: Most stakeholders in the  , who remain defiant that the country only stands to lose more than it could gain from the policy reforms being pushed by the   ( ), expect the   to show the way forward.

 "The country's highest court took so much interest in the affairs of cricket administration. It is now for the court to underline what India's stand should be. How else are we to know who is right and who is wrong here? The CoA is answerable to the Court, so let them go and seek clarity," three senior patrons in cricket administration -who have seen India grow from just another cricketing nation to a global superpower -told TOI on Thursday. It was reported that 23 members of the BCCI are unanimous in their stand over sending the notice. With two full working days left before the Special General Meeting ( ) to begin, there was no change in their stand.
 
 "The CoA went ahead and negotiated with the member boards of the ICC, right? Did they also find out which member board of the ICC is in what kind of debt? They should go and ask the financial status of the   ( ) and the financial help they have sought from the ICC. They should also ask for a paper on Zimbabwe Cricket's massive debts and ICC's 'resolve' to help them out. These are important issues before they decide how much India should be getting," a senior BCCI functionary, who has also worked at the ICC, said.
 
 On Thursday, the CoA went about garnering popular vote as it got busy requesting cricketers, former and current, to come forward and speak on the issue. TOI spoke to certain cricketers and it can be reported that not a single cricketer was ready to come out with a formal statement in this regard.
 
 The BCCI members, on the other hand, were more concerned about their own votes that'll play a huge role in deciding the course of action at the SGM.
 
 Shashank Manohar, the two-time former president of BCCI and now the independent chairman of the ICC firmly believed in a certain philosophy concerning Indian cricket administration. "What matters is what the 30 members of the BCCI think. What outsiders think doesn't matter. It is the general body that is supreme,"   had once told TOI.
 
 As the BCCI fights to 'protect its rights at the ICC' even as it faces pressure from the CoA, the question that members are asking is if Manohar ever believed in any ideology in the first place?
 
