BENGALURU: Anger over   spilled on to the streets and reached the corridors of power after  's dalit scholar  's suicide in January last year.
Vemula, however, was not the first or the only one to face such a discrimination.
 
 The first ever compilation of cases of caste-based discrimination in varsities across India has revealed 142 such cases from 19 universities in 11 states in the academic year of 2015-16. The list, however, does not include Vemula's ca se that occurred in the same period, which students allege is only an indication of how tens of cases go unrecognized for every complaint accepted by authorities.
 
 Karnataka Veterinary, Animal & Fisheries Sciences University received eight discrimination complaints.
 
 According to data, 102 of the 142 cases are of discrimination against scheduled castes while 40 are against scheduled tribes, and 114 of them have been settled. While the authorities having gone to court questioning Vemula's claim to be a dalit seems to be the reason for his case not finding a mention -in fact, there is not one case from University of Hyderabad -students think otherwise. “Five other students underwent the same trauma as Rohith. In fact, they are still fighting the system and the discrimination. They have lodged complaints but nothing has happened. Why hasn't that been taken into account,“ said Munna Sanaki, co-convenor of the Ambedkar Students Association at University of Hyderabad.
 
 Two months after Vemula's suicide, the UGC had issu ed a circular on prevention of caste-based discrimination in educational institutions.“The officialsfaculty members should desist from any act of discrimination against SCST students on grounds of their social origin,“ it reads. It adds that universities or institutions may dedicate a section on their website for lodging complaints of caste discrimination by SCST students and also place a complaint register at the office of registrar or principal.
 
 Notwithstanding any of this, students say that discrimination continues unabated on campuses. From the way accommodation is granted to right of choosing research topics there is a lot of discrimination.Only one out of hundred has the courage to question any of this and the percentage of students lodging an official complaint is even less,“ said a   student.
 
 Munna Sanaki said that faculty members with a known past of discrimination even occupy positions meant to redress such issues. “Where is the question of prompt and honest redressal mechanisms, all universities are struggling with this problem and we are told not to protest,“ he said.
 
 Sociologist and author Prof Samata Deshmana, who has been teaching at Bangalore University for the past 18 years, said that she has seen caste discrimination in almost all universities she has visited over the years.
 
 “I can confidently say that there isn't any university that can claim to be free of such acts.The list may not contain all universities and only those which have reported cases because they have some people in the management who care,“ Samata said.
 
 Gururaj Desai, secretary of   (SFI) Karnataka, while urging the governments to put in place a concrete system to abolish such acts, said, “There must be no place for such discrimination on campuses. If universi ties, which we call temples of knowledge, have such issues, how are people passing out of such places going to behave.“
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 We are a country where caste matters. However much we wish it weren't so, the facts cannot be denied. For most Indians, it is an inseparable part of identity and that looks unlikely to change anytime soon.In fact, Dr Ambedkar's dream of a caste-free India looks farther than it did when he wrote The Annihilation of Caste. So it's not surprising to learn that caste does figure as a factor in our colleges and universities as well. But what is disheartening is that this is not just about students seeking out members of their own castes to fraternize with -which is regrettable in itself -but the institutionalization of caste prejudice. If our teachers and professors fail to deal with cases of caste-based discrimination fairly and fearlessly, how can we ever expect anything better from their students and our country's future?
 
