TIRUPUR: In a first, 22 transgenders were trained in goat rearing to help them become economically self-reliant. The 80-hour certified training also focused on handling the social stigma they daily face and creating awareness about various government schemes for them.

 Tirupur, which is known as ‘Kutti Japan’ in some parts of  , thanks to its excellence in knitwear export, is no different from other cities when it comes to the case of transgenders who mostly remain unemployed and take to begging or flesh trade for survival.
 
 “We wanted to give up begging/prostitution, but often stuck to them to make a living. Thankfully, the district social welfare department’s initiative is a big blessing,” said  , one of the trainees.
 
 “Most of us are school dropouts and ostracised by the society. We are forced to stay away from mainstream and do not get right exposure on right time to face the competitive world. But, this training has given us an opportunity to realise our self-worth and become self-reliant,” Divya added.
 
 Though there were about 40 vocational training programmes available, we wanted goat rearing because meat business has a good future and also requires only less capital investment, Divya said.
 
 Another transgender, Dharsana, 34, expressed a similar view. “I realised the changes in me only when i was 20. I lost my job and resorted to taking alms to make a living. After the training, I am confident to do some business in the future. I will become a role model to others like me,”   said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, social welfare officer I   said the first challenge for them was to gather together the transgenders and make them sit through the sessions for 12 days. “The district reportedly has 115 transgenders and they live in various places. Moreover, some of them don’t want to give up begging, which is only source of income, to attend the programme, Poongothai said.
 
 “But, we succeeded in it, thanks to the effort and coordination of Divya. We have already seen some transgenders making their mark if different fields. Now, the community here has realised the importance of coming to the mainstream,” Poongothai added.
 
 At the end of the training programme on Tuesday, district collector K S Palanisamy distributed the certificates all the 22 transgenders.
 
 “The transgenders have urged us to provide training on jewel making,” Poongothai said.
 
