GORAKHPUR: In every rally of Yogi Adityanath across eastern UP districts, several of which go to   on March 4, a group of workers with saffron bands make it a point to be right next to the stage and most vocal with slogans.
 
  "Jo Maharaji ka aadesh ka, wahi karenge (we will do whatever the leader orders)," one of them, Rajesh Yadav, said in Deoria, asserting the support of Hindu Vahini to its founder, a BJP MP.
  
  The right-wing youth outfit, which Adityanath floated in 2002, has decided to field several candidates in eastern UP against the BJP, even as he remains the star campaigner for the party in the region.
  
  In Gorakhpur alone, the organisation is fighting on eight seats and giving its support to ten others around the constituency.
  
    like Rajesh Yadav are not willing to speak about rebels such as Sunil Singh, former president of the organisation who has been expelled now by Adityanath himself who is a star campaigner for the party.
  
  Sunil Singh, however swears by his "guru" Adityanath. "Maharaj has become Bhishma. We, the expelled members, are the Pandavas. He can’t support us because of his political compulsions, but we are fighting for his honour."
  
  "The BJP has only used Adityanath to increase its chances and not given him his due place," Sunil Singh said. "Maharaj had taught us in 2002 to fight for honour and as a chela (disciple), I am only doing that," he said. The BJP has insulted the MP by not making him a minister or the CM face, and not giving tickets to his candidates, Sunil Singh added.
  
  Sunil Singh has resolved to support candidates fighting the BJP across poorvanchal, while his own candidates are fighting on an alliance with the Shiv Sena. The   in Maharashtra has often opposed the migration of UP workers to the State.
  
  "I am not joining the Sena. I have an alliance with them only for now. My loyalty is only to Yogi Adityanath," Singh said.
  
  According to him, everything that the rebel group is doing has the “aashirwaad (blessing)” of Adityanath. "There is nothing that can happen here without his consent. As a chela I am only following the path of my guru.”
  
  Sunil Singh said in 2002, too, the organisation after taking blessings from Adityanath had rebelled against the BJP and had succeeded in making their candidates lose.
  
  Adityanath is, however, dismissive of the rift. Last month, addressing a meeting of vahini workers, he had said: "Jisko kachre ki tarah nikal bahar kiya hai, uski kisi bhi tippani pe humein kuch lena   nahin hai (We have nothing to do with someone we have thrown out like garbage."
  
  The Hindu Yuva Vahini is present in almost every district of Eastern UP and has hundreds of members. "In early 2000, Hindus here were being lured into religious conversions with a strip of paracetamol and 2 kilos of dal around Gorakhpur. We stopped that," said Sunil Singh, adding that the organisation's other main job was to "check the growth of madrasas and illegal cattle smuggling" on the Indo-Nepal border.
  
  Politically the organisation has a large number of Yadavs generally associated with the Samajwadi party. In fact the vahini also runs flying squads to check copying during exams, an issue the PM spoke about recently.
  
  The organisation, say its members, does the job of a defence organisation. "When Nepal was under communists all these years, the vahini did the work of keeping a check on the borders," present chief of the organisation PK Mall told  , iterating that despite the rebellion, the organisation was firmly with the BJP.
  
  Adityanath's organisation has brought Gorakhpur to a standstill several times. Its main fight is to protect Hindus of Gorakhpur from "the mini Pakistan of Azamgarh."
  
  Locals in Gorakhpur, however, say it is Adityanath who matters to them and that he is with the BJP is enough for them to vote for the party. "Baba's work here has direct impact on many lives. It is a big possibility that he will become the CM if BJP wins. People will vote for the party," Nirmal Yadav, a businessman, said.
  
  While some believe rebels such as Sunil Singh are floating this controversy for their political interests, others believe that Adityanath had initially sulked as some of his recommended candidates were not given tickets but all is well now.
  
  "Adityanath's influence in this region is unquestionable. Koi patta nahi hilta yaha unke knowledge ke bagair, rebellion toh durr ki baat hai (not even a leaf moves here without his knowledge. Rebellion is far beyond that),"local resident Amar Sinha said.
  
  He added that "as BJP was winning in the State Adityanath's Gorakhpur will also vote for the lotus."
  
  BJP spokesperson Chandramohan said what mattered to people in Gorakhpur was what Adityanath said. "He is the party's star campaigner. From purab to paschim (east to west), everyone wants him to come to his constituency and speak. It is his word that will matter to people." 
