Ahmedabad: Several students who wanted certified copies of their assessed answersheets in wake of publication of the results of class 12 board exams of Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Board (GSHSEB), have been turned down by the board.  The results for science stream were announced on Thursday. When students wanted copies of answer sheets, GSHSEB officials told them that they can only view their answer sheets by applying online, and paying fees of Rs 300 per answersheet, but they can’t get any certified copy. Several calls regarding this were received on the RTI helpline of Mahiti Adhikar Gujarat Pahel (MAGP), an NGO, from students and parents, reporting lack of citizen-friendly mechanism for RTI applications at the board office in Gandhinagar. Students complained that the board website also does not have any RTI link or names of PIO and appellate authorities, as required under Section 4 of the RTI Act. When asked, GSHSEB secretary, R I Patel, said, “We provide OMR copy of the student’s answersheet for Rs 100. For class 12 science stream students, we charge Rs 300 per answersheet to let students view them.” “In wake of the HC stay order on providing certified copy of answersheets, we do not allow the same,” Patel added. Contrary to the board’s view, Harinesh Pandya, founder, MAGP, said, “Provisions for checking OMR or answersheets cannot restrict student’s right to seek certified copy. The charges for answersheets have to be Rs 2 per page according to the Act.” “GSHSEB cannot decide the timeline, procedure and unreasonable prices for access to answersheets, contravening the RTI Act,” Pandya said. Even in universities like Gujarat University, Gujarat Technological University and several others students are eligible to get a certified photocopy of their answersheets by paying only Rs 2 per page. EVERY STUDENT HAS RIGHT TO SEEK COPY OF HIS OR HER ANSWERSHEET: SC  The Supreme Court’s order in SCA 6454/2011 states, “Answer sheet falls within the definition of the information and every student has right to seek a copy of the her/his answer sheet within 48 hours of filing RTI application as per section 7(1) of RTI Act. RTI Act has overriding effect over any other rules that exist for preventing information to be disclosed or rules for providing information.”