 made her return to the small screen this weekend with ' ', based on international show, ' '. While the latter is hosted by LL Cool J and Chrissy Teigen, and a winner in the west, our Indian version, which aired on September 16, comes as a disappointment. 

 Format of the show: There are different rounds lined-up on the show and two guest celebs begin the battle with a brief warm-up. They were mostly required to lip-sync on Bollywood songs all through the show, barring the 'Boss Ka Toss' round, where they are given two bottles, more like a sand timer, and they have to empty the contents of one into another. After the main performance by the celebrities, the audience with its 'cheer-o-meter' gives the final verdict.
 
 The first few minutes of the premiere episode were wasted on introducing the concept of the show. To familiarize the audience and the viewers,   of The Kapil Sharma Show fame performed on stage and got the acts wrong, prompting Farah to emphasize on lip syncing the song than acting on it. None of the comedian's antics were funny.
 
 While the first episode saw   and   battling it out, the second had   and  . 
 
  
  
 Both the episodes were full of forceful laughter and unnecessary gimmicks. Even though the actors tried their best to entertain with elaborate dance and song sequences, they failed to succeed beyond a point. When they performed, the camera went everywhere else than on their faces. How are the viewers then supposed to make out if they are able to lip sync or not? The guests didn't even look too comfortable while performing or being on stage. Case in point, Arjun Kapoor, who made statements just for the effect of it. 
 
 The reaction by the audience was shown on a repeat mode, and remained the same throughout. The awkward laughs made the whole show a cringe-worthy watch.
 
 Farah is known for her humour, but this time around it is all slapstick. The first two episodes saw her doing what she has done before and there was nothing new or entertaining (something that the promos promised!).
 
 Considering the American TV show Lip Sync Battle is a huge hit and quite popular, this one is a let-down and can be given a miss.
  
 
