JAIPUR: Since accurate   holds the key for  ,   has upgraded its   as it has now become the second government’s medical college in the state with a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) laboratory. Only Sawai Man Singh Medical College has the facility of PCR lab. 

 Jhalawar Medical College was established by forming a society by the government of Rajasthan, which was registered as Jhalawar Hospital and Medical College society, Jhalawar at Jaipur on August 8, 2007. 
 
 Chief minister Vasundhara Raje inaugurated the PCR laboratory on Thursday. At a time when increasing number of swine flu cases are constantly being reported in the state, the PCR laboratory will help in early diagnosis of the highly contagious disease. Through PCR, experts can analyse genes in blood samples for screening diseases such as dengue and influenza. 
 
 Raje said that patients will now get test reports of diagnostic tests for dengue, hepatitis and swine flu. She said that if talking about government medical colleges, only SMS medical college in Jaipur has PCR laboratory. 
 
 The most of the Ebola affected countries widely used PCR test for diagnoses of the disease during the outbreak. The PCR laboratory has come as a boon for Jhalawar and nearby districts as swine flu is the disease which needs early report for effective treatment. 
 
 Besides, Raje inaugurated ICU in SRG hospital with the help of a private hospital. 
 
 The government has upgraded the facilities as patients need not to go to other districts for treatment. Even patients from MP will be benefitted from the improvement in facilities in Jhalawar’s government hospital. Recently, the hospital has introduced super speciality in neurology and it has also conducting surgeries for hip and keen replacement and spine surgeries. 
 
 In March last year, the state government had inaugurated a 12-bedded dialysis unit in the SRG hospital attached to government's Jhalawar medical college.
 
 Box: Chief minister Vasundhara Raje districbuted scooties to 72 girls of Jhalawar Girls college and government PG college under Meghavi Chhatra Scooty Yojna and Dev Narayan Yojna. 
 
 
