PATNA: If the first three days of 350th  , which began here on January 1, saw guests praising CM   for ‘spectacular’ arrangements, Wednesday’s ‘nagar kirtan’ made devotees from all over the world realise how good a common Bihari can be when it comes to hospitality.
 
  The guests were taken by surprise seeing Patnaites greeting them with hugs on the entire 15-km stretch from Gandhi Maidan to Patna Saheb gurdwara. The Patnaites also greeted the Sikhs with slogans like ‘Wahe Guru Ji Ka Khalsa, Wahe Guru Ji Ki Fateh’. Few others welcomed the Sikhs with a ‘Sat Sri Akal’.
  
    and Hospital (PMCH) doctors and nurses also stood outside the main gate of the hospital for hours to greet the devotees. “Punjabis should remember our hospitality when they go back,” a surgery department doctor of PMCH said with a sense of ‘Bihari’ pride.
  
  People of different religions too made their presence felt. While Sheila Thakur stood at Brahamsthan temple opposite Patna College with an ‘arti thali’, Mohammed Rafi stood at Pirbahore mosque with water glasses in hand.
  
  The hospitality of Patnaites was not merely confined to welcoming the guests. They had the best of snacks to offer to the guests. From snacks to fried rice, chocolates to toffees, tea to soups, the Bihari platter was very rich. There were more than 200 such stalls on the entire route.
  
  More than 50 residents of Govind Mitra Road were serving mineral water bottles to them. “We have purchased 320 cartons of bottles and prepared for 15,000 cups of tea,” one of them said.
  
  As soon as the procession reached PMCH, one Rajesh Kumar almost came rushing towards devotees with tetra packs of electral and orange drinks. “All the cloth traders decided to distribute 20,000 such packs. After all this is 350th Prakashotsava and we may never see such huge number of devotees in our lifetime,” he said.
  
  One Mohammed Firoz, who sells mirrors in front of Catholic Church on Ashok Rajpath, had put up a ‘chana-gud-water’ (gram, jiggery and water) stall.
  
  A politician took visitors by surprise by installing at least 10 ‘flower machines’ on the route. It was a small machine which sprayed flowers in air.
  
  As the procession entered Mahendroo and roads became narrower, Patanites took it upon themselves to create an easy route for devotees. A central loudspeaker was installed which kept instructing the residents there to stand in queues on roadside and see to it that no guest faces any harassment. And what discipline they showed without much police presence! The Patnaites were so careful about the nitty-gritty that anyone who would serve snacks would have his/her head covered which is a norm in Sikhs. “We have learnt in these days the dos and don’t’s of Sikhism,”   of Mahendroo said.
  
  All this was enough to make Punjabis a fan of Biharis. “Till now we used to address people from Bihar as ‘bhai’. I regret it and now we would call them ‘bhai sahab’,” Kolkata’s Amarjeet Kaur said. She added, “We have been part of numerous nagar kirtans. But they largely remained the carnivals of Sikh community. Today’s participation of local Biharis show they have embraced it too.”
  
  Kanpur’s Tajinder Pal Singh, who had landed on Tuesday with a jattha of 600 people, was also all praise for arrangements. “We are spellbound by the people’s response. Now we realize that Prakashotsava is not just a ‘sarkari’ programe. The people of Bihar have owned it up.”
