NEW DELHI: A national-level, under-19  , aspiring to secure a seat under the sports quota in a Delhi University college, went through a harrowing time before getting admitted to   on Monday. 

 Ajay Guliya’s ordeal started at the registration stage itself. “While filling up the registration form, everything was completed and the certificates were also uploaded following which I was allowed to pay and complete the registration,” said Guliya. “But around June 22, I noticed that I had been marked zero because none of my certificates had shown on the portal.” 
 
 Guliya and his parents had to make several rounds of the DU sports council to get the error fixed. Once the certificates finally got uploaded, his total score was 29 out of 50. 
 
 The next stage was trials. Despite applying under the all-rounder category, Guliya was asked to either bowl or bat in the trials and he decided to go for bowling. However, in the merit list released by Sri Venkateswara College, he figured as a left-arm spinner. “Someone else was picked for the all-rounder seat, though he had appeared as a medium pacer in the centralised list,” he alleged. Once again, Guliya tried to get the error rectified but without any success. “We decided to move to Khalsa College.” 
 
 Calls and messages by TOI to Narendra Gaur, an assistant professor at the college’s physical education department who was involved in the admissions, went unanswered.
 
 Guliya’s ordeal, however, continued at Khalsa. “I saw that several students who had scored lower than me had figured on the admission list,” said the player at under-16 Vijay Merchant Trophy. He had also played in the national-level, under-19 tournament organised by School Sports Promotion Foundation.
 
 Guliya said the sports admission committee told him that his “form had been misplaced”. The cricketer then approached DU’s sports council for clarification. 
 
 Guliya said he was later contacted by Anil Kalkal, sports council director, assuring him that a seat would be given to him in the second list. Calls and texts to Kalkal went unanswered. However, C S Dubey, chairman of the sports admission committee, said the decisions had been made “as per expert committee recommendations”.
 
 An official of the sports admission committee at Khalsa College admitted that the form was misplaced. “It was an unintentional mistake. We have not denied him admission. We have assured him that a seat would be given in the second admission list, but he is adamant to rake the issue,” said the official.
 
 Guliya finally secured a seat at Hindu on Monday. 
 
