
1. Among these is 
 : a chronicle of world leaders who visited the House on the hill since Independence.
 
 2. Includes nuggets like how the Indians had to arrange for a 110-volt connection in the suite of US president Dwight ‘Ike’ Eisenhower — for his electric shaver.
 
  
  
 
  3. Also a rare picture of Chinese premier Chou En-Lai in conversation with the Dalai Lama in 1957, clasping each other's hands in a friendly gesture.
 
 4. For a book on birds on the President’s Estate, 111 species were located, photographed and identified.
 
 
 
 1. The new museum, created out of stables in ruins, houses priceless artefacts rediscovered from unused rooms, treasures retrieved from old trunks gathering dust in locked rooms.
 
 2. The museum has on display photos and belongings of first President Dr   too, as well as a working piano that is about a century old.
 
  
  
 
 3. It has a moth-eaten zardozi carpet that 200 Kashmiri weavers took two years to make — commissioned by Edward  .
 
 4. There’s a double-decker hunting coach, and silver thrones from the   too.
 
 
 
 1. Mukherjee took great interest in INTACH’s restoration of unused portions and rooms of the 88-year-old building.
 
 2. Paintings were catalogued, furniture too. Work started in 2012, the project helmed by additional secretary to the President, Thomas Mathew.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Two suites, where heads of state, visiting kings and queens once stayed, had their Burma teak panelling, European chandeliers, exquisite Kashmiri carpets and antique furniture designed by Lutyens restored — the Dwarka and Nalanda suites. The king and queen of Bhutan were the first to stay in the heritage Dwarka suite post restoration.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 1. The Garage museum built in the, what else, garage, is India’s only one with two underground floors and a dome of 131 feet in diameter without central support.
 
 2. Displays are in augmented and virtual reality — holographic and 3D projections of over 3,000 objects gathered from all over the Estate.
 
  
  
 
 
 3. The 81-year-old has gifted the new museum his prized collection of 500 pipes that heads of state and others have presented him.
 
 
 
