Coimbatore: An 11-year-old girl, who was diagnosed with   ( ), a rare condition, recently underwent a   at  . Her liver, which had completely shrunk over the last three years, was successfully replaced with a small portion of her mother’s liver. The girl has begun eating normally after years and is even moving around, doctors said.

 The patient, daughter of labourers from Kangeyam, began suffering from the problem when she was only four years old. “In those affected by Vbds, bile duct in the liver gets destroyed. When the duct is completely destroyed, the liver suffers cirrhosis,” said head of the gastroenterology and liver transplant department at PSG Hospitals, Dr L Venkatakrishnan. 
 
 “This happened to the child when she was hardly seven to eight years old. It was after she began suffering from liver cirrhosis that she was referred to our hospital,” he said. “She had already undergone a biopsy at Erode, which showed that she had Vbds,” he added.
 
 The child had begun suffering from growth retardation because of her inability to eat properly. She weighed just 20 kg at the age of 11. Due to constant bouts of sickness, she had to keep taking breaks from school, resulting her reaching class IV while her peers were in class VI.
 
 Though doctors tried managing the cirrhosis with medication, her condition began worsening. She began suffering from persistent jaundice and fluid began accumulating in her lungs, making a liver transplant necessary. “The gastroenterologist referred the child to us six months ago,” said liver transplant surgeon Dr S Swaminathan. “Fortunately for her, her mother stepped forward to donate a portion of her liver,” he said. 
 
 On Saturday, liver transplant surgeons at the hospital removed around 220 gms of left lobe or left half of the patient’s mother’s liver and transplanted it into the child. “We calculated how big a liver the child’s body would require,” said the doctor.
 
 Doctors said that though the pre-teen will have to be on immunosuppressant drugs lifelong, after three to six months they will be reduced to the bare minimum.
 
 
