NEW DELHI: After Wednesday’s crash which claimed five lives on NH-24, road safety   have called for deterrent provisions in the law to rein in traffic violators. 

 The provisions under the present Motor Vehicle Act, the experts feel, are too light to be a deterrent for offenders. For example, in case of an   if the accused doesn’t have a driving licence, he is booked for negligence, which carries a meagre fine of Rs 500 or jail up to three months or both. If the driver of a vehicle allowed some one else to take control without having a licence is liable to pay a fine of only Rs 1,000 or face a three-month jail or both. 
 
 The 19-year-old cleaner of the dumper, Nitesh Kumar, who lost control of the vehicle and crashed into the SUV killing four members of a family on Wednesday morning, has since been arrested and charged with culpable homicide. 
 
 But experts say this may not be enough. “Such penalty is not at all a deterrent for offenders. The cleaner-driver practice is normal as transporters want to make profit by hiring uneducated, untrained and non-skilled drivers. The law must act against everyone in this chain for the loss of human lives,” said S P Singh of IFTRT, a think tank on transport issues.
 
 The bill to amend the Act, which has been pending in Parliament for about a year, proposes to increase the penalty to Rs 5,000, though road safety experts say even this is not adequate to rein in such offenders. 
 
 “We need to bring a strong law with deterrent provisions so that people don’t violate traffic norms. We have appealed to all parties to help pass the bill. It’s a law for larger interest of all road users,” road transport minister Nitin Gadkari told TOI.
 
 For more than four years, the Centre has been pursuing to increase the penalties which have not been revised since 1988 when the law was enacted. Even police departments from across states, including Delhi, cited how the low penalties had no impact on traffic violators. 
 
 “It’s long overdue to improve our laws to make roads safer. Archaic provisions have to be done away with. If the NH-24 stretch had CCTV cameras to detect every offence, it would have been easier to nail the offender,” said K K Kapila of International Road Federation. 
 
 The bill proposes CCTV-based monitoring and enforcement of traffic rules and mandatory investigation of all such crashes. “Every such road crash has to be investigated to identify who all are responsible for the fatalities including the road-owning agencies and enforcement wings,” said road safety expert Rohit Baluja.
 
 The MV Amendments Bill has proposed holding the road-owning agencies responsible if their fault is established on issues like road design. It also proposes penalty against motor vehicle officers, if they are found to have flouted norms while giving fitness certificates.
 
