AJMER: The Ajmer division of   (NWR) will set up skill development centre to offer vocational training and learning of practical skills for profitable career choices. A MoU was inked between the officials of the division and   (NSDC). The centre will be functional from mid-February. 

 Under the MoU, nodal training partner of NSDC, Assocom India private ltd of   will provide facilities in Ajmer to start training programs in different skills including food processing, bakery and confectionery and also in mobile repairing. Assocom is in training space for over two decades. The institute was set up three years back with technical inputs from all players of the industry. Assocom has taken advice and support from institutes in USA, South Korea, Canada and Australia who are partners with NSDC and have actively participated in developing qualification parks and national occupations standard for bakery industry. Assocom has planned to train over 3,000 persons in its institute and other centers.
 
 Divisional Railway Manager (DRM)   said that it is important to emphasize on the need for advocacy and publicity of skill imperative. Schools, teachers and parents need to be convinced of the importance of vocational training and learning of practical skills for profitable career choice. Use of print, social and electronic media, counseling centers, teachers training and such initiatives will go a long way in changing mindset as well as encouraging youth to adopt skill and vocational training. Indian Railways is undertaking skill development activities under PMKVY (Pardhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna).
 
 Chawla said that after getting response of this center, more such centres will also be set up at Ajmer and other parts of the division. In first batch, 30 students will be imparted training for three months after which NDSC will provide certificates. Minimum qualification of this will be Class V-VII depending on the course. NDSC will pay the fees and railways will provide all logistics to training centres for three years.
 
