In  's Tuesday (May 16) episode, Adi sees Roshni with a bowl of freshly made Gulab Jamun, he thinks she is trying to spoil his surprise. Roshni tries to explain but he shouts at her and leaves. 

 On the other hand Raman is teaching Ishita how to make drinks but she fails. Bala enters the room and tells her that she should make preparations before hand, he also asks her to get the bottles in to the room and that they will make the drinks on their own. 
 
 Mani calls up Raman to check on the dinner and cocktail party arrangements. Raman asks Mani to come over and explain Ishita about the cocktail and how she can be of help. 
 
 Mani, Shagun and Aaliya along with their family members reach Bhalla house for the dinner. Aaliya and Shagun come wearing dark sunglasses for dinner much to everyone's surprise. Shagun tells them it is for the betterment of the bride and her mother so that they do not catch any infection. 
 
 Adi takes Aaliya away from the family members to his room, she wants her surprise to which Adi asks her to wait until the dinner is over. 
 
 Mani, Bala want to go and meet Raman but Ishita stops them and asks them to meet him later. She wants Shobhna to request them to stay. 
 
 Shobhna then wants everyone to say a few words for Aaliya. When Ishita is about to say something, Shagun interrupts and asks her to start serving dinner since it is getting late. Ishita wants Shagun and Mani to start the dinner first followed by others. 
 
  
  
 Bala takes Ishita aside and asks her why is she spoiling the party and this is when she says that Shobhna should not come to know about the party that is why she insisted on having dinner first. 
 
 Post dinner, everyone is served with aam panna shots and all the men are disheartened. 
 
 Ishita is happy and whispers into Mihika's ears that there will be no cocktail party now. 
 
 Later, Adi and Aaliya sneak out and this is when Adi shows her what did he prepare for her. She wants to tell everyone but he stops her. Aaliya wants Adi to feed her. 
 
 Keep watching this space for all the updates on Yeh Hai Mohabbatein. 
 
