New Delhi: Almost three years after coming to power, the AAP government is now working on finalising the proposal to install 1.4 lakh   cameras in public places. 

 Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal held a meeting with PWD and senior government officials on Thursday to review the status of the project. Sources said the CM directed the officials to finalise the tender details in the next two months.
 
  PWD, which would execute the project, has expressed concerns and offered suggestions regarding location, tender, maintenance and monitoring of CCTV cameras. 
 
 The government has allocated Rs 130 crore for the project in its 2017-18 budget, but it’s planning to increase it as the whole project would cost up to Rs 350 crore. “The budget will be revised once PWD finalises the tender details. The camera and system specifications have been worked out and will be finished soon,” said an official in the CM’s office.
 
 PWD had formed a technical committee, which had Delhi Police, PWD and IT experts, to work out the specifications. The number of CCTVs was decided at a meeting chaired by Kejriwal a few months ago based on the tentative demands received from MLAs. “MLAs were asking for 5,000-6,000 cameras, but it was decided to install 2,000 in each assembly constituency,” the official said.
 
 However, sources said that no survey has been conducted to assess the actual requirement. 
 
 The government plans to install these mainly in residential colonies and markets. It has asked MLAs to identify the locations in their respective constituencies with help from local RWAs, market associations, PWD and police. As the project aims to ensure safety of women in public places, PWD has suggested that these cameras be installed at arterial roads, markets, parks and other public places. 
 
 The CCTV project was AAP’s poll plank in 2015. But so far, cameras were being installed either through MLA funds or a similar project for schools and buses. The city-wide plan has been pending.
 
 The agency that would install the cameras would also maintain them for five years. “If there is a problem with a camera, SMS alert will be sent to the nearest RWA, beat constable, the company’s maintenance unit etc. Under the service level agreement, it will be mandatory for the company to repair/replace the camera within 24 hours,” said the official. 
 
 PWD officials said the running cost is quite high with the SMS option. “It will cost Rs 40-50 crore more,” said an official. 
 
 The plan is to set up command centres, including one at PWD headquarters, where camera feed would be stored. PWD officials have suggested that   feed be made available to police for which connectivity of cameras is important. But government officials say that regular monitoring can’t be done. “Regular monitoring of 1.4 lakh cameras is not possible. We will have a system in place so that if someone wants to monitor it, s/he can. But we can’t provide the manpower to monitor the live feed,” said a source. 
 
 The government is yet to decide whether to go for a rate contract or open bid.
 
