Back when   was launched no one had thought that it would be responsible for Justin Bieber’s career to take off the way it did. After Justin was discovered through one of his videos, his career sky-rocketed. The singer, who is currently in India, has been making headlines for all the wrong (read outrageous) reasons. From travelling with a large entourage to demanding a list of things upon his arrival, Justin clearly is the biggest star born online We list some other popular YouTube celebs...

 
 
 
 Felix Arvid Ulf Kjellberg, also known by his online name Pew Die Pie, was named as the highest paid YouTube star by Forbes in 2016. He is known for his hilarious commentary of   games that he plays. Boasting over 5 crore  , this YouTube celeb recently kicked up a storm for a joke that resulted in Disney and YouTube cutting ties with him. He, however, later apologized for the same.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Indo-Kiwi singer and a part-time radio jockey, Shirley’s love for singing happened by chance. Known for her mashups, she shot to fame after her rendition of Sanam Re became popular. With over 13 lakh subscribers, she was termed as Bollywood’s next singing sensation and is all set to perform in Bengaluru soon.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Known as India’s first YouTube sensations, Wilbur is a singer and performer from Madurai. ‘Love Marriage’ happens to be one of his most popular videos with over 14 lakh views. He is known to demonstrate ‘how to’ scenarios in the most funniest way.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Consisting of duo Ian Andrew Hecox and Daniel Anthony Padilla, Smosh is all about funny animations and skit. The duo have come a long way and now run seven channels. They were also featured in the Forbes list of Highest Paid YouTube stars of 2016 and went on to become one of the most subscribed YouTube channels. The channels has over two crore subscribers.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Vidya Iyer, also known by her stage name Vidya Vox, shot to fame after her mashup of Closer and Kabira became popular. Vidya performs with a band that includes Shankar Tucker and had recently performed in India as well. With over 26 lakh subscribers, she is known for her quirky sense of dressing and coloured hair as well.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Known for her YouTube baking show Nerdy Nummies, Rosanna Pansino also featured in the Forbes list of Highest Paid YouTube stars of 2016. With over 82 lakh subscribers, Rosanna also wrote the Nerdy Nummies Cookbook. The main theme of her baking show is the ‘nerd’ factor.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Lilly Singh, aka Superwoman, was named as one of the Highest Paid YouTube stars of 2016 by Forbes. Lilly has over 1.1 crore subscribers, and her videos are usually a hilarious take on our normal activities (read impersonation of a typical Indian mother) and a take on her Punjabi upbringing. Lilly has also collaborated with actresses like Priyanka Chopra for the video How To Be A Good Wingwoman and Hillary Duff for What Last Minute Christmas Shopping Is Really Like.
 
 Sandra.Fernandes@timesgroup.com
 
