Ludhiana: There is good news for residents who want to fly by air to Delhi from Ludhiana, as the flight from Sahnewal Airport might start before the end of August. In March this year, it was announced by the government that as many as 128 city pairs that were unconnected by air will get flights between April and September this year under round one of the Modi government’s affordable Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS).

 The 48-seater ATR Air India flight used to operate on Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday, before it was suspended from 1 June 2014. Airport manager at Sahnewal airport, Amardeep Nehra, said the Airport Authority of India team, and a team from the airlines had already visited the airport and taken stock of the arrangements and facilities. He added that even as he was unable to give the exact timeline for the start of the flight from Sahnewal Airport, it would be before August end.
 
 A senior official said agencies had seen the runway, checked security at the airport, and other facilities for flying airlines. He added that only cleaning and small works like paint were going on. “We have been asked to be ready for the start of flight services. Hopefully, the inauguration of the flight service will be done by some senior minister, so we are waiting for the date,” said an officer at the airport. He added that to start with, Alliance Air’s Q400 (with seating capacity of about 70 passengers) will start flying for four days in a week, and then in September or October, Deccan Charters N28 (with a seating capacity of about 20 passengers) flights will fly for seven days a week.
 
 Even as sources had claimed that the biggest hurdle in operating Q400 will be the short runway at Sahnewal airport, which is around 4,800 feet, the airport manager said the runway was adequate for the operation of such a flight. He added that the time for travelling by air between Ludhiana and Delhi from Sahnewal Airport is around 45 minutes.
 
 Meanwhile, many city residents say they have been waiting for the start of flights from Sahnewal airport. “If one has to fly to Delhi, we have to go to Chandigarh and take a flight from there, which is a time-consuming process. But if the operation starts from Ludhiana, and that too at an affordable price of Rs2,500 per hour’s journey per person, it will be good and save our time,” said Sameer Verma, a businessman from South City. 
 
 REASON FOR SUSPENSION
 
 The 48-seater ATR Air India flight used to operate on Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday, before it was suspended from 1 June 2014. It had occupancy of around 50-60%, which was reportedly one of the main reasons for the flight’s cancellation, as revenue was one of the main considerations for the aviation company. The city’s residents did not rely much on the flight, as it used to have frequent cancellations.
 
 
