LUCKNOW: Having travelled over 1 lakh kilometers in the last over a month and addressing more than 75 rallies in poll-bound states Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Punjab, Union minister   returned to his 4 Kalidas Marg residence in Lucknow on Friday evening. All day he had addressed rallies in Mahmoodabad, Misrikh in Sitapur and at Tirwa in Kannauj with a mix of serious issues and humour.

 The star campaigner of the BJP, next only to Modi, Rajnath Singh has devised a new style of striking a rapport with the masses. He draws attention of the listeners broaching Pakistan and what has been India’s response to the neighbouring nation’s provocation, followed by a dash of humour and concludes his address taunting the government of the state alleging lack of development, electricity and law and order. 
 
 He speaks about the SAARC meeting he attended in Isalamabad where protesters on streets were shouting slogans against him while he was challenging Pakistani authorities at the venue. “Maine qasam khaayi thee thi ki Pakistan ko Pakistan ki hi dharti par hi muh-tod jawab dena hai (I was determined to give Pakistan a fitting reply on its soil),” says Rajnath and the slogan Shere-e-Hindustan Rajnath Singh zindabad rents the air.
 
 At the Mahmoodabad rally, Rajnath stated there are standing orders from him “If Pakistanis fire, don’t count the bullets. Just rain the enemies with fire”. Once again, the crowd shouts in frenzy.
 
 In another meeting in Misrikh in Sitapur, Rajnath tosses questions like “nahron mein paani aa gaya?” “hatya loot, balaatkar sab band ho gaye?” and “Bijli aati hai?” to all of which the listeners reply with a resounding chorus of “Nahin!” even as the Union minister tops the exchange gleefully with “Thane lut gaye, police pit gayee”, all in good measure to highlight their plight without flowing canals, electricity and law and order. All it takes him is repetition of the Pakistan-SAARC meeting episode and mention of the surgilcal strikes and the crowd goes berserk.
 
 Deliberately, or by desire, top leaders of the BJP are not mentioning demonitisation or at best making only a passing reference. Rajnath spoke briefly on the demonitisation issue in one meeting in Kannauj, which is represented by Dimple Yadav, wife of SP national president and chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, as he addressed a huge crowd. 
 
 “Despite a medical college, para medical college, engineering college and concrete roads in villages, a lot of development remains to take place and people here are fed up with the oppressive Yadavs,” said Neelu Mishra, a BJP worker, while acknowledging MP Dimple Yadav’s good work.
 
 Studying profiles of candidates and constituencies, Rajnath is prepared for the next five rallies in eastern UP from Saturday.
 
 
