NEW DELHI: Congress registers lead on maximum number of seats in Punjab as counting is underway in Punjab. However, unlike what was predicted in the exit polls, the AAP, which was expected to do better than either party, is neck-to-neck with BJP as trends trail in.

 The state is witnessing a triangular contest between the ruling SAD-BJP combine, the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party, as the counting process is underway in 54 centres across the state.
 
 Trends indicate Congress leading on 65 seats, closely followed by AAP, which is leading on 22 seats, closely followed by the SAD-BJP combine, which is leading on 18 seats. 
 
 The SAD-BJP alliance is confident of defying the pollsters "like in 2012", when it proved the surveys wrong. As for Congress, Amarinder Singh claimed it would win 65 seats and the AAP exuded confidence of bagging close to 100.
 
 The chief minister Parkash Singh Badal is leading from Lambi by a margin of 1,245 votes, as per early trends. AAP's Pirmal Singh Dhaula is ahead on Bhadaur (R) seat as per early trends.
 
 The state went to polls in a single phase on February 4 and recorded 78.60 per cent polling against 78.57 per cent in the 2012 polls. 1,145 candidates are in the fray, 81 of whom are women and one transgender.
 
 SAD contested 94 seats and its ally the BJP is 23. The Congress has contested all the seats.
 
 Key constituencies whose results would be keenly watched include the Lambi seat, where the CM is locked in a triangular contest with Amarinder Singh and journalist-turned-politician Jarnail Singh (AAP).
 
 Patiala is another key seat where Amarinder Singh is up against SAD candidate and retired army Chief General JJ Singh.
 
 Jalalabad, considered a pocket borough of the ruling Badal family, has two sitting MPs - Ravneet Singh Bittu (Congress) and comedian-turned-politician Bhagwant Mann (AAP)-up against SAD president and deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal.
 
 Veteran Congress leader and former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal is fighting it out against Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa (SAD) from her traditional bastion of Lehragagga.
 
 AAP's Himmat Singh Shergill is fighting against Revenue Minister Bikram Singh Majithia from Majitha while Gurpreet Singh Ghuggi (AAP) is giving a challenge to Congress stalwart Ashwini Sekhri from Batala.
 
 Navjot Singh Sidhu, who after several flip-flops had joined the Congress party, contested the Amritsar East seat against Rajesh Kumar Honey of BJP.
 
 The CM's estranged nephew Manpreet Singh Badal is trying his fortunes from Bathinda Urban seat on a Congress ticket while Indian Youth Congress chief Raja Amarinder Singh Warring is contesting from the Gidderbaha seat.
 
 The results are crucial for Congress, which is seeking to wrest power after failing in the previous two Assembly elections fought under the leadership of Amarinder Singh.
  
 
 
 
