AHMEDABAD: OBC leader Alpesh Thakor, who has launched a stir demanding major chunk of jobs to Gujaratis, has threatened to take his fight right up to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

 On Thursday, Thakor, convener of   and OBC, SC, ST Ekta Manch, lead a 110-km ‘Berojgar Yatra’ (Joblessness march) that began from temple town Bahucharaji and culminated in a rally in Ahmedabad after passing through Viramgam and Sanand.
 
 “PM Modi is scheduled to arrive on January 9 for the Vibrant Gujarat summit. The state government has not heeded to our ultimatum of ensuring 85% jobs to locals. We will reach   the same day to press for this demand more vociferously before the PM,” Thakor told the rally held on Sarkhej-Gandhinagar highway.
 
 In a clarion call, Thakor exhorted the attendees to converge in Gandhinagar and be prepared to even go to jail. Thakor issued the ultimatum just 30 minutes before giving the ‘Reach Gandhinagar’ call and warned that they would not let Modi inside the state if the government does not assure 85% jobs to locals and three lakh jobs in the next three months.
 
 “Government promised one crore jobs to youths by claiming huge investment in Vibrant Gujarat summits but RTI documents reveal that only two lakh jobs were created. The government has deceived the youths and the summits have been reduced to a mere show business,” he said.
 
 Thakor also lashed out at the Chief Minister Vijay Rupani for taking credit for introducing stricter prohibition laws and challenged him for a public debate. “CM Rupani claims that his government was committed to stringent anti-liquor laws. But BJP has managed to remain in power for two decades by encouraging bootleggers and giving them a free hand,” the OBC leader said.
 
 He also launched a caustic attack on Rupani saying that it was not due to his ability but merely because of Amit Shah that he has assumed the top post.
 
 “He is the CM only because of his elder brother Amit Shah. While BJP publicly condemns casteism, their own party chief has promoted this social evil by making Rupani the CM,” Thakor alleged.
 
 Varun Patel, convener of Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) who shared stage with Thakor, said, “If Gujarat is considered a model state, there wouldn’t have been such a yatra attended by thousands.” 
 
