Hyderabad: It is raining tourism projects in Andhra Pradesh with the TDP government all set to close bids for nearly 60 mega and minor projects worth Rs 2,000 crore on Saturday. All projects including the development of a five-star hotel are to be executed under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode.

 After sitting on several proposals, the AP Tourism department suddenly woke up from its slumber and invited Request for Proposals (RFP) for all the projects at one go. The proposals are categorised as hotel projects (25), wayside amenity projects (12), beach projects (14), family entertainment centres and convention centre projects (5), resorts (7) and 10 miscellaneous.
 
 Some of the projects are old ones that did not take off due to various reasons. For the fresh projects, the government will provide land on a lease basis for 33 years under either the Build Operate Transfer (BOT) or Design Build Finance Transfer (DBFT) modes.
 
 Prominent among the PPP projects is a five star hotel in Madhuravada area of Visakhapatnam at a cost of nearly Rs 300 crore. Among others, three star hotels are to come up in Anathapuram, Gandikota, Puttlampalli in Kadapa district, Orvakal and Kanipakam in Kurnool district. 
 
 Beach resorts projects are to come up at Ramayapatnam in Prakasham district, Mutayalammapalem and Madhurawada in Visakhapatnam, Tummlapenta in Nellore district, Baruva, Chintapalli, Kakinada and Chirrayanam in East Godavari district. A luxury beach resort is to come at Suryalanka in Guntur district, while another big beach resort hotel is to come up at Mypadu in Nellore district.
 
 Apart from these, beach amenities projects are to come up at Vodarevu beach in Chirala and Tantadi beach in Vishakhapatnam while adventure sports amenities are to be created at Rushikonda and Sagarnagar in Vishakhapatnam. Officials said a major chunk of the projects will go to Visakhapatnam district.
 
 Four major family entertainment centres with a minimum cost of Rs 100 crore each are proposed in Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and Tirupati. Apart from these, Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions (MICE) centres are proposed at Yandada, Ruhshikonda, Sagarnagar and Simhachalam, in Visakhapatnam and Srikalahasti in Chittoor district.
 
 After RFPs for the projects are issued, pre-bid meetings will be held. After the selection of the bid winners, the projects are expected to be complete within two years. The government is also considering amending the incentives policy for some tourism projects.
 
 
