Nagpur: To end red-tapism and ensure transparency in pre, during and post construction activities, the state government has made it mandatory for the civic bodies to sanction building plan within 30 days, plinth checking permission within seven days and occupancy certificate within 8 days. Also, the time frame and process for permission to fell trees also made simple.

 The state’s urban development department issued three notifications on Monday under the central government’s Ease of Doing Business Assessment-2017. As per the notifications, the civic bodies and planning authorities including the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) and Nagpur Metro Region Development Authority (NMRDA) will have to complete all formalities for   and issue building permit within 30 days from receiving of the application.
 
 Earlier, the civic bodies were supposed to decide whether to approve or reject application of building plan sanction within 60 days as per Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act and Right To Services Act. However, there is no mention in the notifications about action against the engineers or officials if they do not comply with the new time frame.
 
 NMC official told TOI that action will be taken as per provisions in the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act. “Application for building plan sanction and also occupancy certificate is deemed to be sanction in case no decision is taken within given time frame. Show cause notice followed by action is taken against the concerned engineer or official,” he said.
 
 The government has made it mandatory for the concerned official/employee to submit site inspection report online to the concerned coordinating official within 48 hours from the date of visit to the location where the building has been proposed. Also, the report has to be displayed on the website of the concerned authority.
 
 Interestingly, the government also made it mandatory for the civic bodies to also upload inspection reports of building plan sanction, occupancy certificate and permission for felling trees of last two years online.
 
 NMC and NIT engineers have welcomed the move but hoped that the higher authorities will increase the staff. “Town planning department is having very less staff so it will become very tough for the engineers to match the revised time frame,” they said.
 
 Similarly, the civic bodies have been directed to inspect, inquire and invite suggestions/objections for giving permission to fell trees within 12 days. The employee has to submit inspection report with Tree Authority and upload it online within 48 hours from date of visit.
 
 Now, the municipal commissioner/higher authority can give permission to cut down 25 or less trees. Tree Authority will take decision in cases where more than 25 trees need to be cut. Also, the mandatory norm of inspection of trees will be exempted in case the applicant submits images of trees using information technology enable system.
 
 President of CREDAI Nagpur Metro Anil Nair said the revised time frames were welcomed but will not make much difference. “Applications can be rejected for any reason. The government should launch online portal for building plans and will be perfect solution to all problems,” he said.
 
 
