THRISSUR:   Dharmendra Pradhan on Tuesday reiterated the demand for bringing in   under the  , though the suggestion has not yet elicited favorable response from the Union Finance Minister or the states.

 Responding to questions from the reporters here the Minister however declined to make a suggestion on what should be the unified tax rates for the petroleum products under the GST regime.
 
 "The petroleum products must have a rational tax structure, which takes into account of the resource mobilization requirements of the Centre and the States. The Tax rate must also protect the consumer interests," Pradhan said.
 
 When it was pointed out to him the GST regime has fixed a tax rate ceiling of 28 per cent and the petroleum products currently have much higher tax rates, the Minister said the apt body to the fix the tax rates was the GST Council which is essentially a body of the states.
 
 He conceded that tax rates are contributing to the high price of petroleum products. But this tax rates are a major source of revenue of the Centre and the States, he argued.
 
 He claimed that the system of changing price of petroleum products was introduced to ensure that the consumers will not have to wait for 15 days to enjoy the benefits of sliding prices in the international market.
 
 He however conceded that the petroleum price has gone up by Rs 4 per litre after the introduction of this new system in mid-June.
 
 According to him the decision to link the price of the petroleum products to the rates prevailing in the international market was taken about 20 years ago when the government led by the BJP was in power. The Minister argued that the new system of daily change in price was a continuation of that policy and it will also incentivize more private players to enter the petroleum refining and distribution sector.
 
 Replying to questions he also conceded that the price of the petroleum products in India was not being fixed based on the price of the imported crude oil, and by factoring in other expenses like refining and transportation costs. But we fix the price based on the price levels of the finished products prevailing in the international market, he said.
 
