Madurai: With water from the Vaigai dam not being directly discharged into the riverbed and the 40 cusecs that is released to meet the drinking water needs of the city coming through pipelines, all the water that now flows is nothing but sewage. However, this is a problem the civic body has failed to solve.

 The Vaigai river, which originates in Varasanadu in Theni district, flows through five districts and ends in Ramanthapuram. But, the stretch between Sholavandan and Silaiman in Madurai is the most polluted. Effluents from workshops, industries and tanneries flow directly into the river and it is this smelly sewage which flows into the riverbed, even as people are seen bathing and washing in it.
 
 Former MLA R Annadurai of the CPM who continues to campaign for the cause, said the eight-km stretch between Madurai and Silaiman is the worst polluted with many houses situated on the banks directly discharge their waste into the river.
 
  The Madurai Corporation has failed to address this issue in spite of many demands. Even a study conducted by the Thiagarajar College of Engineering few years found that the river was most polluted in the city limits. There are 67 places in the city limits where the sewage is discharged into the river.
 
 Co-ordinator of Vaigai Nathi Makkal Iyakkam, M Rajan said they had made representations to three previous corporation commissioners to prevent sewage discharge into the river, but they failed to take action. People living in Alwarpuram have to live with the unhealthy discharge from the Government Rajaji Hospital, which flows through a giant pipe into the river. “This is the very spot where Lord Kallazhagar of Alagarkoil enters the river during the famous Chithirai festival, and this year when they raised the issue and demanded that the authorities prevent the flow of sewage, a large tin sheet was placed above the giant pipe which fell down even before the ritual was over,” he said.
 
 “The corporation’s treatment plant in Vellaikkal has a capacity of 125mld but only 20mld is treated there as we found in a recent survey, because the pipelines carrying the sewage is filled with plastic waste which are reducing its capacity and the corporation finds an easy way to discharge the sewage into the river,” he said.
 
 
