CHENNAI: Guests at six-year-old Akul  's birthday party walked in expecting balloons, streamers and the usual jingbang. What they did not expect was Mitra -- a humanoid bot greeting them as they entered. Mitra not only converses with guests, it also serves as a mobile jukebox, a photographer and a tool to live-stream the party on social media.

 People can walk up to Mitra and ask questions like ‘What is the theme of the party?’ or ‘How old is the birthday boy?’ Mitra also makes its way around the party and one has to merely wave at it to be captured in a photograph.
 
 “We were looking for something interesting and unique that would keep children and parents engaged. Mitra had guests of all ages excited,” said Swetha Iyer, Akul’s mother.
 
 Mitra has been built by Bengaluru-based  , whose team has also loaded it with over 200 songs that play with a voice command. With two batteries, each with a four-hour life, Mitra can last long enough for an event, says Balaji Viswanathan, the company’s CEO.
 
 The last few months have also seen bots making an appearance at events. In May this year, Chennai-based educational tech company SP Robotics had a   serving customers at a mall in Bengaluru. “We have received a lot of queries from industry for bots in restaurants. While some want a bot-themed restaurant, others want to use it for specific purposes like serving or cooking,” said Sneha Priya, co-founder, SP Robotics.
 
 Is it safe to have robots at children's events? “We have taken great care to ensure it does no harm. Sensors make sure it doesn’t bump into anything or anyone. The body is designed with fairly soft material to ensure that even if a human touches the bot, there will not be a mishap,” said Viswanathan of Invento Tech. 
 
 Their design was put to the test when guests at Akul’s party hugged the bot out of curiosity. Mitra can also withstand accidental splashes of water or soft drinks.
 
 Invento Tech has tied up with event organizer sabrentkaro.com to tap into Mumbai, Chennai and Hyderabad. Mitra can be rented for Rs 18,000 to Rs 30,000, depending on the gathering. Apart from corporate events, the startup is also looking to design bots for functions like weddings – “bots who can hold a tray, play instruments like the nadaswaram,” explains Viswanathan. "If people get comfortable with bots at fun events, they will be open to accepting them for more serious uses."
 
