THRISSUR: The   order for the closure of the wayside liquor shops seems to have hit some of the IMFL outlets run as part of the canteen services of the defence forces, in the state. 

 The state excise department slapped closure notices on the   of the unit run canteens (URC), which are managed by the NCC, in Thrissur, Kottayam and Kollam as well as Naval canteen at Kochi.
 
 The Golden Palm Canteen at Palakkad which comes under the Area Headquarters, Chennai and the military canteen at Pathanamthitta under the station headquarters, Thiruvananthapuram had stopped selling liquor from April 3.
 
 According to the officials in charge of the canteen, the excise officials served the closure notices to those liquor outlets without any prior notice. They said the membership in these canteens range from 5,000 to 20,000.
 
 Meanwhile, the ex-servicemen have come out in protest against the closure of the liquor outlets in the military canteens. They said they welcomed the SC order’s basic spirit which was to curb the rising road accidents. However, it was clear that the IMLF outlets in the military canteens could not lead to any rude and negligent road behavior as they sell liquor to serving and retired personnel of the most disciplined military force in the country.
 
 “Liquor is being served as a ‘ration privilege’ to serving and retired personnel in these canteens and they are not accessible to the public,” said K R Gopinath, the district president of the  . “We feel humiliated and neglected by the civil administration with their interpretation of the Supreme Court order. We are sure the Supreme Court will not give a directive which will be detrimental to the interests of the serving and retired defence personnel in the country,” he said.
 
 “The ex-servicemen feel that the authorities should have sought a clarification from the Supreme Court before slapping the closure order,” Tony Cherpu, president of the   said. 
 
 The state president of the Ex-Servicemen League, Brigadier G Anandakuttan said the issue would be taken up with the national leadership of the organization and through them with the armed forces headquarters.
 
 The canteen managers have communicated to their headquarters in New Delhi on this development. Some of the canteen managers are trying to open a new entrance to the IMFL outlets so that they would be able to abide by the distance norm set by the Supreme Court.
 
