CHENNAI: A fire accident in an illegal five-storey apartment complex in Vadapalani left four members of a family, including two children, dead and eight others injured early on Monday morning.

 Thick smoke that billowed from the fire, which broke out on the ground floor around 4.20am after a short circuit in an electrical junction box, was more devastating than the blaze itself because of the disorganised construction of the building, which the corporation had sealed in September 2016.
 
 Police said the owner, an AIADMK functionary called  , who lives on the top floor of the building on   in Vadapalani, had flouted the rules and rented out most of the 28 small flats in the complex as well as four shops on the ground floor.He and his family emerged unscathed from the blaze.
 
 But the disastrous accident in the heart of the city -which should sound the alarm bells as a clear case of laxity by the city's building and development enforcement agencies-claimed the lives of  , 65, Selvi, 45, Sandhya, 10, and Sanjay, 4, all of whom lived in a first floor flat and died of asphyxiation.
 
 Police said  , 19, Martin, 24, Thangam, 22, Antony, 14, Panchaliyammal, 60, Vijayalakshmi, 41, Sridhar, 60, and Dheenadayalan, 33, were injured and have been hospitalised.
 
 A fire and rescue services officer said the blaze spread quickly to a 15ft×15ft parking space on the ground floor, gutting 18 motorcycles parked there and killing a cow the building's owner had tethered to a stake nearby. By the time the sleeping residents awoke to the choking fumes from the fire, it was too late for most to escape from the building through its narrow staircase.
 
 Desperate to find a way out, some residents used a rope to climb down to safety, others attempted to use ladders. One resident flung a bedsheet to the ground from the second floor, then threw his 10-year-old son out of the balcony, hoping people below would spread out the sheet to cushion his landing. The boy survived.
 
 Witnesses said they saw smoke swirling out of the building around 4.30am. A tea vendor alerted people in the neighbourhood and, at 4.54 am, they called for firemen. Officers and fire tenders from the Ashok Nagar and Teynampet fire stations rushed to the spot.
 
 It took 18 firemen more than an hour to douse the flames. Police and firemen then launched a search and rescue operation. They found four people dead and rushed those with injuries to   and Hospital. Doctors there said the injured were in stable condition.
 
 Finance minister   inspected the building later in the morning. “It is very unfortunate,“ he said. “We will take strict action if there are irregularities.“ The Vadapalani police registered a case under CrPC Section 174 (accidental fire).
 
