GOA: Political observers agree that uncertainty prevails over who enjoys a clear edge in many constituencies across  .

 While Curtorim, Margao, and Quepem constituencies can be the safe bets for the Congress party –in the given order; Curchorem and Cuncolim can very well go the   way. In the rest of the constituencies, the multiplicity of factors in play or a multi-cornered contest will result in rather unpredictable results. The Aam Admi Party, the GSM+MGP+SS alliance, and the Goa Forward Party (GFP) can prove to be spoilsports for mainstream political parties, observers feel. 
 
 In Fatorda constituency, though incumbent independent MLA Vijai Sardesai enjoys a blurry edge at the moment, over his rival Damodar ‘Damu’ Naik, political analysts feel the behaviour of the fence-sitters will prove to be crucial in deciding the outcome of the polls.
 
 “In Fatorda, voters generally tend to vote for the person, rather than the party. The person who has a wider appeal and a better connect with the grassroots has emerged victorious in the past,” political observers say. The BJP machinery in Fatorda is working overtime to wrest the seat from Sardesai. And it is obvious, their target is the fence-sitters. 
 
 In Navelim, political observers are of the view that state Congress president Luizinho Faleiro could emerge triumphant over Independent Avertano Furtado, who is supported by the BJP. The BJP, however, finds itself in troubled waters, as a section of the local BJP workers have joined hands with the MGP camp which has fielded  , a rebel BJP worker. Political observers say a probable split in the “Hindutva” votes - which are sizeable in number - could work to the detriment of Furtado. On the other hand, two-time zilla panchayat member Edwin ‘Cipru’ Cardozo, who is contesting as an independent candidate, may play spoilsport for Faleiro as he is likely to garner a sizeable number of traditional Congress votes.
 
 In Nuvem, chances aren’t bright for incumbent MLA, Francisco ‘Mickky’ Pacheco, who is facing a real threat from Congress candidate Wilfred D’Sa. Political observers feel that in the five-cornered contest, division of votes among the remaining four could well work in favour of D’Sa. 
 
 What enhances D’Sa’s prospects is his projection as a new face, though, some feel, the covert support of former minister Aleixo Sequeira to Pacheco could work to D’Sa’s disadvantage.
 
 In Benaulim, AAP candidate Royla Fernandes is drawing large crowds. And if these huge crowds translate into votes – political observers feel that it mostly will – NCP’s Churchill Alemao could well be sent packing by the electorate. Sources say, whoever emerges the winner, AAP’s stamp will be all over the outcome in Benaulim. “The brunt of AAP’s lethality will be worst faced by the Congress in Benaulim,” a political observer said. The Congress has fielded its Benaulim block Congress president, Edwin Barreto. 
 
 In Velim, with 12 candidates in the fray, the real battle will be among Congress nominee Filipe Neri Rodrigues, AAP’s Cruz Silva, GFP’s Anthony Rodrigues and idependent Benjamin Silva. Sources say, Cruz Silva enjoys a slight edge at the moment. 
 
 In Sanvordem, BJP’s Ganesh Gaonkar and MGP’s Deepak Pauskar are running neck and neck. Political observers say an anti-incumbency sentiment runs deep in this constituency. Besides, the MGP has its traditional vote base in Sanvordem, which Pauskar seems to have succeeded in tapping. It’s anybody’s game. 
 
 In Sanguem, a three-cornered fight will decide the winner. BJP’s Subhash Phal Dessai is fighting on two fronts – against independent Prasad Gaonkar and Congress candidate Savitri Kavlekar. Gaonkar is also likely to snatch a sizeable number of ST votes from the BJP. Kavlekar also enjoys considerable support. Political observers say it’s difficult to hazard a guess over who will pip whom at the post.
 
 In Canacona, political observers say, BJP’s gamble of denying Ramesh Tawadkar the ticket could lose them their seat, as the former tribal welfare minister is riding high on the sympathy wave. A close fight is on the cards between Tawadkar, Vijay Pai Khot (BJP) and Congress candidate Isidore Fernandes.
 
 In Cortalim, BJP’s incumbent MLA Alina Saldanha is facing a strong anti-incumbency sentiment, giving a slight edge to Olencio Simoes of AAP. Simoes is the nephew of Alina’s departed husband, Matanhy, and has managed to rope in the support of many of his uncle’s earlier comrades. However, the five-cornered battle has lent an element of uncertainty to the battle.
 
 In Vasco, BJP MLA Carlos Almeida, sources say, enjoys a distinct edge. A split in the anti-BJP votes among the Congress candidate Saifulla Khan and NCP’s Jose Philip D’Souza is likely to work in Almeida’s favour, say political analysts. Krishna ‘Daji’ Salkar is also creating waves.
 
 In Mormugao, it is likely to be a close contest between BJP’s Milind Naik and Congress’ Sankalp Amonkar. An anti-incumbency sentiment could harm Naik’s prospects, sources say.
 
 In Dabolim, Mauvin Godinho, who recently joined the BJP, is likely to emerge the winner in a close contest.
 
