There is a long history of men wearing florals, but truth be told, men and florals sounds as cohesive as chalk and cheese. But designers on both Indian and international runways are showcasing their own “flowering” version of the style, and we tell you how to pluck a page from their lookbooks.
 
  
 
  “Earlier, florals on men were usually seen as print on shirts. However, they are more versatile now, making an appearance on formal and semi-formal jackets, ties, pocket squares, shoes, socks, bags and even jacket lining. For a bolder look, men are wearing muted floral prints on trousers,” says designer  . In a way, florals add a breath of fresh air to menswear staples like tailored suits, bomber jackets and more.
  
  
 
  The best bit about florals? You can give them a desired spin! Whether it’s bright and breezy summery prints, embroidered or textured petals in earthy shades or dark gothic blooms in black – there are flowers to match every mood, season and occasion. “Change your florals with the season,” says Tanna. For summer, go for elaborate florals in pastel or bright colours. Winter calls for subtle, deep, muted prints or motifs lending a warm, vintage feel. “The mantra is: go big and bold in summer and intense and intricate in winter,” he adds. Stay tuned to the occasion. “A statement floral shirt or tee with a well-fitted pair of shorts or chinos and resort footwear may be great for beach parties and vacation wear. Go for accessories with a subtle hint of florals for conservative week-day looks,” says designer  .
  
  
 
  Florals in sherwanis and bandhgalas are the new festive cool. Fashion-forward men can use flowers in full flare by picking a floral-printed or embroidered kurta or jacket. A floral-design embroidered cuff or collar of a bandhgala can lend a distinct, stylish appeal.
  
  
 
    in an all-over print is a big statement. Go for a pair of Hawaiian sneaks or plimsolls and keep the rest of your outfit toned down. Or look for shoes featuring an embellished bud or petal.
  
  
 
  If you find florals a bit overwhelming, start small by paying attention to detail. A floral hat or bag can add a bit of colour to an ordinary look. For more formal occasions, go for a bloom-print bow-tie, pocket square or embroideredcollar. Or give a floral surprise by rolling up the sleeves of your shirt.
  
  
 
  Consider giving your bottom a botanical makeover. Sport a pair of sharply-cut, ankle-grazing floral trousers teamed with a white short-sleeved shirt and tassel loafers. Perfect for casual evening engagements.
  
  
 
  When sporting any print, make sure you keep the patterned piece the focal point of the look, and frame it with less attention-grabbing neutrals. Clashing prints can work for daring dudes; just makes sure the prints differ either in tone or pattern – not both. Polka dots, plaid and stripe work excellently with floral.
  
  
 
  Wear a light-weight jacket in fluid fabric with a relaxed silhouette or a floral shirt or tee with a solid-coloured jacket. Go for big prints of prickly cacti; orchid prints are also in!
