NAGPUR: City MP and an outstanding minister in the   government at the Centre,  , has always kept an eye on the   that is under the BJP control for a decade. He along with chief minister   have been instrumental in pushing for developmental projects in the city at an unprecedented scale and pace in last two-and-half-years. 

 The two leaders have a grip on civic politics and have played crucial role in ticket distribution to party nominees. “What we brought to the city in 36 months in terms of development, the other parties could not even attempt in 50 years.” claimed Gadkari in an interview to TOI. Gadkari is confident that riding on their good performance, the BJP would be able retain power in NMC for the third term in a row.
 
 “Take the network of high quality cement roads that will be long lasting, Metro railway project that is being executed at fast pace, civic infrastructure like the underpass coming up at Pardi, 24X7 water supply, energy saving measures, earning revenue from water recycling, power from waste. The list goes on and on, in fact we have not left any aspect of civic work that directly concerns people,” he summed up. Excerpts of the interview:
 
 Q: The NMC elections could be most challenging because of the rebels in fray and anger among those denied party ticket?
 
 A: The fact that over 3,000 sought the party ticket, shows that the BJP retains position as no. 1 party in the city too. In last civic elections we had only half that number of ticket claimants. Not every aspirant can be satisfied. We stuck to decided yardsticks like electoral merit, reservation compulsions in each prabhag, performance potential of aspirants. Choosing 150 from 3,000 was a tough task. Those left out have been pacified and others who did not fall in line are facing disciplinary action.
 
 Q: Despite the rebel problem you are sure of BJP retaining power over NMC?
 
 A: Yes, because people will certainly compare our work to previous regimes in the city. When cities like Latur in the state had to wait for drinking water fetched from far off by railways, most of Nagpurians got water supply at homes for at least 16 hours a day. They have good city bus service. Nagpur is today a model CIT for others to emulate. We have water recycling project, 55 buses run on ethanol. Soon, we will launch 400 taxis driven by electricity. We are starting construction of 50,000 affordable houses for the poor. Already more than 8,000 youth have got jobs in Mihan and our target is 50,000 jobs. Nagpur has become an education hub, students no longer have to migrate to Pune, Mumbai. IIM, IIIT, a new government engineering college, world class Symbiosis college, all are now here in the city. Land titles have been allotted to slum-dwellers. All sections of society are happy with our work and they will certainly reward the BJP with another term in NMC.
 
 Q: Opposition is crying hoarse about corruption and favours doled out to private players in civic work. How will you counter that?
 
 A: All civic works are awarded through transparent tender system. OCW water project was given through global tender that was won by Veolia. Cement road works were given to able contractors who are doing a good job. Allegations of corruption are being levelled by a weak opposition that has lost all relevance and credibility over the years and is desperately seeking public attention.
 
 Q: So, how many seats your party will win this time?
 
 A: I can’t predict the exact number. But I am sure we will win around 80 seats giving us a comfortable majority. 
 
