HYDERABAD: As the admission season for Intermediate courses kicks in, choosing the right stream of study stands out as one of the biggest challenges for city students, say educationalists. And this is further emphasised in a survey conducted by Lodestar, a Bengaluru-based career guidance company, which reveals that 24 per cent of students from 

 Hyderabad struggle with deciding a career path, owing to lack of information on different industries career options streams.
 
  is expected to release the notification for online admissions to Inter courses on May 5.
 
 Local career counsellors agree to this concern and say how majority of Hyderabad's students, seeking admission to Intermediate courses, are unaware of their area of interest and completely unsure of what career they wish to pursue. “For most students and parents who come for counselling, the right stream of study is the one that eventually fetches a handsome salary. 
 
 What students fail to understand is that career choices must be based on their area of interest as good pay alone will not bring them satisfaction in their professional lives,“ said  , counselling psychologist and founder of  , adding how parental pressure is another area of concern as students often fall prey to this practice while selecting their career.
 
 Another common notion, experts say, is with regard to the Science stream. Several students, they add, are conditioned in such a way that they mechanically opt for Science and look down upon Humanities Arts. This is rooted in the lack of awareness among them about the various avenues that other fields can throw up. “Majority of the students opt for engineering assuming that will get them jobs. But the reality is that many B Tech students are unable find jobs. And that's because these candidates blindly opted for the course without weighing the pros and cons,“ said N Dakshinamurthy of Forum for Protection of Values in Educational Field.
 
 What's also emerged as a handicap for students is the absence of career counsellors in state-board schools, say educationalists. While a few schools affiliated to the   have appointed professional counsellors, the practice is largely not followed in state-run institutions in Telangana. And this is very unlike its neighbouring states such as Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra where the education department conducts career counselling sessions for both Class 10 and Class 12 students every year.
 
 Experts suggest that students -to beat the confusion -speak with people from different professions before seeking admission in a junior college. “A brief internship with a particular company of their choice or a chat with professionals from the market can help students get better exposure and assist them with making wiser career choices,“ said  , a teacher.
 
