Producer   came down heav ily on the website   at an audio launch on Saturday . The latter had earlier announced on social media that they would live stream Si3, produced by the former, on the day when the film hits the screens. Raja lambasted at the illegal practices of the website and openly stated that those working behind   will be nabbed in six months, and that he will live stream the course of actions taken on them. In a tête-à-tête with CT, the producer-distributor avers that plans are on to bring down all the unlawful activities of the website.

 He opens up, “We are making all the possible ways to ensure that the entire net work associated with TamilRockers is shut down soon. They are earning a lot of money through piracy , which is a big crime.“ Quiz him about a few members of the team arrested in Coimbatore a while ago, and he says, “They were just the content providers. They shoot the content and supply to the uploaders who work from abroad. It is a big nexus -there are people in Tamil Nadu, Bengaluru, Kerala, Pune, etc, who provide the content and transfer to those who operate from abroad.For example, a guy from Madhya Pradesh was arrested during the release of Bahubali. He was working with IBM, earning around `2.5 lakh per month.“
 
 Quite confident of tracking down the culprits, Raja says he will ensure that they are severely punished. “We have the help of professionals and support of Central Government. People arguing that audience watch films in the website due to high ticket price is nothing but a senseless statement. We are not compelling anybody to watch films.“
 
 What about the miscre ants' challenge that they will live streaming Si3 on February 9, on its release day? He says, “I'm sure they will do it in one or the other way . Having said that, we are making all efforts to make them refrain from it.
 
 In the coming days, lot of people from the industry will lend their support in fighting piracy and some serious actions could be expected.“
 
 When asked about why Tamil industry is more affected with piracy than other industries in south, he took pot shots at the current office bearers of   ( ), alleging that they have been interested in selfish acts and not bothered about the welfare of industry .
 
 He details, “Their actions helped piracy to flourish.They had signed a tender with the local cable operators, where the latter could use the content of producers.When I was the secretary , I made sure that this never happened. But they made the deal again. Thanu, T Siva, Radhakrishnan and many other office bearers have been involved in this. Now that the next election is all set to happen soon, I am sure that positive changes will happen after our team emerges victorious.“ 
 
