Sunday will be a special day for these five horses. For the first time, they will participate in the Police Flag Day Parade as patrollers; they started the new job just three days ago.
 
  But look closely and you will realize how much effort these horses are putting in to do their bosses’ bidding. One of them, Locked Away, has a lesion -- called Swamp Cancer -- on his front left leg. Swamp cancer is a fungal growth on the skin which radiates to the bone; it is extremely itchy and painful for the horse. Veterinarians prescribe anti-fungal pills and ointments – and lots of rest – for horses suffering from the disease.
  
  But Locked Away cannot afford such luxuries; he has been ordered to patrol Cubbon Park, Commercial Street and Brigade Road. And it’s not just the policeman that he has to carry on his back while suffering the itch and pain from the lesion – the bus that is supposed to ferry him from the stable to the patrolling area is an old one and prone to breakdowns. Sometimes, the horses have to trot for nearly 4 km (from CAR stables near Sirsi flyover) to their place of duty.
  
  The equines have to put in 6 hours of patrolling duty (from 3-9 pm) on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays. Police officers say mounted policemen make for visible and effective policing; city police came under tremendous pressure after the incidents during New Year and resolute action was required to restore people’s confidence; but did the police act in haste by unlocking the stables?
  
  
 
  
  Bengaluru’s gridlocked roads are legendary; add to that the incessant honking of horns which can easily drive anyone crazy. Locked Away’s colleague ‘Bungee Dancer’ nearly bolted and threw the rider off his back when he was being taken to KSRP ( ) grounds near Madiwala for parade practice last week.
  
  The horse sustained leg injuries but hasn’t stopped patrolling; officers said speeding vehicles and the honking of horns may have unnerved him.
  
  It’s not just the traffic; some Bengalureans were not comfortable sharing space with horses on crowded streets and criticized the police for the decision. Others took selfies, putting the steeds under further stress.
  
 
 
 
  
  Apart from Locked Away (12) and Bungee Dancer (11), Bengaluru police have Resham (7) and Thoran (13) on active patrolling duty. The only other horse in the stable, Gracing Motion (16), is too old for patrolling. The royal family of   gifted the horses to Mysuru police, which in turn handed over 11 to Bengaluru police. Six horses have died in the past five-and-a-half years; some due to old age and some, like ‘Son of Son’ to illness.
  
  
 
 
  
  The reason why Locked Away repeatedly develops lesions – he was operated upon for one last year too – could be found in the poor state of the police stables.
  Bengaluru police’s horses are presently housed in the CAR (City Armed Reserve) premises on Mysuru Road. The stables are located in a corner, surrounded by sewage. During the rainy season, horses end up standing in sewage water for hours as their stables get water-logged (in fact, the term Swamp Cancer comes from the lesions that horses develop after spending a considerable time in a swamp or dirty water). Moreover, the bushes around the stables present a safe haven for snakes.
  
  
 
  
  A police officer who served in CAR a few years ago feels a permanent veterinarian is required who can visit the horses regularly. “There is a veterinary doctor two-three km from the CAR headquarters, but the caretakers have to take the sick horse to his clinic. Since the horse van (float) is old and prone to breakdowns, the sick horses often have to walk to the clinic. Sometimes, the caretakers have to pay out of their own pockets,” the officer said.
  
  According to the sources, funds were sanctioned a year back, but no officer showed interest in repairing the stable.
  
  
 
  
  Bengaluru police commissioner Praveen Sood, who re-introduced mounted policing in the city, said that the police have sought more horses from Mysuru. “Once we get the force, we will extend it to places like   and its surrounding areas.”
  
  He added that a new stable will be constructed soon. “We will use the available funds with the department to renovate the stables. We have also sought more funds to construct a new stable which will be hygienic and in a different place in CAR premises.”
  
  Till then, Locked Away and his colleagues will continue to serve Bengaluru, come what may.
 
 
