Mumbai: Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece   has warned Marathi Mumbaikars that BJP’s deep forays into Mumbai in the recently held civic elections could potentially sever the city from Maharashtra. Blaming lack of unity among Marathis for BJP’s rise,   leader and executive editor of the paper   accused the   of using its wealth and power to win seats in the corporation elections.

 The signed Saamna editorial charged the BJP with stitching a loose alliance of non-Marathis, including Gujaratis and Jains, to win an astounding number of seats—82, against the Sena’s 89—and said this could precipitate the process of cutting Mumbai off from the state. “The BJP’s showing is a warning bell to all Marathi Mumbaikars,” it said.
 
 “The gravest danger to Maharashtra is from the BJP. They have no positive thought about Mumbai and their gameplan is to divide Maharashtra (into smaller states). It is unfortunate that BJP’s Marathi leaders are pursuing this (anti-Maharashtra) agenda,” said Raut.
 
 Pointing out that a large number of non-Marathi corporators have been elected to the  , Raut said most of them harbour a feeling of hatred for Maharashtra. “They flaunt their wealth and think that they can buy out everything with money power...Such attitude will hereafter be on the rise. For them, Mumbai is merely an instrument to make money, to usurp wealth,” Raut said, adding, “New Delhi too nurses a similar sentiment.” 
 
 Raut reminded Sainiks that the Shiv Sena had left no stone unturned to offer protection to the city’s mercantile community during the 1992-93 communal flare-up following the Babri demolition. However, this time around, the same community voted the BJP to power on religious and community considerations. “This vote is not for the development of Mumbai,” said the Rajya Sabha MP.
 
 Raut had a word of praise for the Congress party which, he argued, did not display arbitrariness while governing Mumbai. “The Marathi quotient in the Congress party wanted Mumbai to be with Maharashtra. Senior Congress leaders such as Sharad Pawar were of the view that the Sena should gain strength so that Maharashtra is not vivisected,” he said.
 
 A large number of non-Marathis have been voted to the BMC...they flaunt their wealth and think they can buy out everything. For them, Mumbai is just an instrument to usurp wealth... It is a warning bell for Marathi Mumbaikars.
 
