Barring sporadic incidents in a few states, most institutions and industries across India continue to remain insulated from the effects of the 
  that has affected computers in approximately 100 countries worldwide.

 Banks, government departments and corporate houses have issued messages of caution and reinforced online security. However, business was unaffected as markets and offices opened on Monday after a weekend during which ripple effects of the malware were witnessed across the globe. 
 
 For now, the   has asked banks to operationalise their ATM networks 
  .
 
 The social network was abuzz with talk on Monday that ATMs in many places were not functional. However, bankers said this was likely because the machines had run out of cash. 
 
 Corporate houses urged employees to back up their data and refrain from opening unfamiliar file attachments. “We are also urging all   users to install software upgrades and firewalls,” said the IT head of a media group. 
 
 The broking and mutual fund industries were not affected by the malware attack, said top officials. “All exchange operations went on normally,” said Ashishkumar Chauhan, MD & CEO, BSE.
 
  
  
 
 Among cities in which sporadic attacks were reported are Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Chennai and Kolkata.
 
 Dhananjay Dwivedi, secretary in there Gujarat government, said there were 120 incidents across the state. “However, there is no harm on government functioning,” he added.
 
 In Kerala, computers in panchayat offices in Wayanad and Pathanamthitta districts were affected. “The staff found   Word and MS Office files inaccessible,” said Thariyode panchayat president Reena Sunil. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Oragadam, TN, factory of alliance partners Renault &   restarted production on Monday after a disruption on Saturday. The attack had affected production of 1,200 vehicles.
 
 In Gorakhpur, UP, a motorcycle dealer was asked to pay $300 to access files on his PC in a pop-up on Saturday.
 
 Computers in at least three locations in West Bengal, including those of a power discom, also came under attack.
 
 “The disruption caused was local. It did not affect power distribution, customer data or commercial operations,” said West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Co Ltd MD Rajesh Pandey.
 
