Until 2012,   used to be a massive roadblock for most Hindi GECs, as the nail-biting cricket extravaganza used to routinely cannibalize viewership brutally, sometimes sealing the fate of prime time soaps forever. All that is passé now, much to the collective relief of soapmakers. The first game week of IPL received an average rating of 3.8 TVR in 2013, as compared with its average of 4.64 in 2012. Since 2013, there has been a change in the modus operandi of GECs who've gone guns blazing, launching new shows during IPL.

 Not surprisingly then, while IPL 2017 kick-starts in April, prime time Hindi TV will see a slew of new launches,  , Jaat Ki Jugni, Tu Sooraj Main Saanjh, Piyaji,  ?,  , Dhhai Kilo Prem,   etc.
 
 
 
 
 For top Hindi GECs, the afternoon slots helps them to retain viewership. “There is a sizeable television viewing audience in the afternoon. Currently the only options available to these viewers are repeat telecasts and that takes care of balancing the viewership around IPL. We are launching new content in afternoon slot with varied storylines and different backgrounds that will strike a chord with viewers in that time-band around IPL so that new shows cater to right audience at right time band,“ Gaurav Banerjee, president and head of content studio of a leading Hindi GEC.  , senior creative director of a popular GEC says, “IPL undoubtedly is one of the big events on small screen, but, GECs have learnt to co-exist. It certainly impacts the ratings but not to that extent that GECs wouldn't launch shows. SO most GECs are going ahead with launch of shows around IPL this year.“
 
 
  
 
 Is there a reason why IPL's no longer perceived as a threat for show makers? At a time when viewership is fractured anyway due to the veritable deluge of soapsshows on the platter, what do producers feel about this sudden lack of interest in IPL? Producer   tells, “It is tough to say whether IPL has lost its sheen. There's always a marginal drop in TRPs of prime time shows during IPL. It is roughly 15% or more depending on the kind of excitement the matches generate. But, a marginal drop in TRPs no longer worries GECs who are fearlessly launching new daily soaps or reality shows. There's always a sizeable chunk of viewers who are fiercely loyal to the soaps shows.“
 
 
 
 
 A significant percentage of working professionals and youngsters catch all the action of IPL on their PCs, laptops, tablets or smartphones since 2015 (thanks to the launch of 4G plans and easy availability of Wi-Fi options at cafes households). “ Advertisers are recognizing the growing importance of internet viewership. TV portals are expected to be the best vehicle this summer to reach this audience,“ says Ajit Mohan, CEO of a leading entertainment portal.
 With interesting shows lined up, Hindi GECs have pulled out all stops to ensure that remote control junkies switch their loyalties from IPL to shows. It has to be seen who top scores in the TRP stakes this time around.
 
 
  
 
 
