HYDERABAD: In a major finding, researchers have noticed that unlike in other cities, more men than women in Hyderabad suffer from  . As a whole, Hyderabad has a higher percentage of population deficient in this  . Experts blame it on   in closed door environs and forced nightshifts in IT-related sectors.

 According to a study conducted at the Princess Esra Hospital of Deccan Medical College over the course of a year, only a quarter of the people tested had good levels of vitamin D, with only 12.38% found with high levels. The researchers found that vitamin deficiency is prevalent across age groups, though it is more pronounced in infants and the elderly.
 
 As for the gender breakup, 57.35% men are afflicted compared to 50% women. “That men were found to be more deficient in   than women is contrary to other studies published so far. Community-wise, Muslims were found to be more deficient than others. This could be due to dress code, an indoor lifestyle and malnutrition,“ said Dr Sarwat Fatima, professor of microbiology, Prin cess Esra Hospital.
 
 The study has come out in the latest issue of the   (IJSR). It reveals that vitamin D deficiency is common in Muslims, while insufficiency has been observed in Hindus. As for Christians, vitamin D levels have been found to be higher than required. A high proportion (68.42%) of senior citizens across all religions shows deficiency .
 
 Experts warn that Hyderabad's vitamin D problem may explode any time, causing a spurt in severe health issues. Independent studies by different teams of doctors in Hyderabad have linked the severity of strokes with high levels of vitamin D deficiency .
 
 “The major source of vitamin D is sunlight. While our body does not make other vitamins, it can synthesise vitamin D with the help of sunlight. Most of us lack adequate exposure to sunlight. Vegetarian diet, unless fortified, is a poor source of vitamin D,“ says Dr Hari Kishan Boorugu, consultant physician at Apollo Hospitals, Hyderguda, explaining the reasons for the high prevalence of vitamin D deficiency in the city .
 
 Apart from long hours at work, many Hyderabadis do not consume food that is rich in vitamin D. Another reason for the high number of cases in Hyderabad is obesity linked to physical inactivity .
 
 T he   (NFHS) 201516 reveals that a substantial section of people in the city is overweight. A study published by city doctors in the scientific journal PLOS One links vitamin D deficiency with high body fat (PLOS, or  , is a nonprofit open access scientific publishing project aimed at creating a library of open access journals and other scientific literature under an open content license. It is headquartered in California).
 
 Senior orthopaedic surgeon Dr M Hari Shar ma blames vitamin D deficiency also on atmospheric pollu tion. “Pollution alters the status of vitamin D,“ he says, suggesting that people are better able to expose themselves to sunlight when the air is clear and not hazy. “Sitting near glass windows will not help you. Your body will not make vitamin D when you sit in a car either. People with dark skin should spend half an hour under the sun.Fair-skinned people can do so for about 20 minutes.“
 
 The researchers also released region-wise data after studying men and women in urban and rural locales across south and north Indian cities and towns: 40% of men in south India have very low levels of vitamin D, and 84% of pregnant women were found to be deficient in vitamin D as were 78% of hospital staff across the region.
 
