Times News Network

 Ludhiana: Local bodies minister Navjot Singh   has marked an inquiry into “faulty”   laying on Rahon Road by Punjab water supply and sewerage board around four years ago. The move came after Congress MLA from East constituency Sanjay Talwar lodged a complaint on the issue with the minister.
 
 The minister has marked an inquiry with chief vigilance officer, demanding a status report within seven days.
 
 The MLA has demanded action against the officials of the sewerage board as well as the contractor who was allotted the task.
 
 In his written complaint with the minister, the MLA mentioned that recently the MC had started cleaning of the choked sewerage lines on Rahon Road through super suction machines because of the frequent complaints.
 
 He said that during checking of cleaning of sewerage lines through super suction machines on CCTV cameras, it came to light that there were many faults while laying the sewerage pipes in the area.
 
 Sanjay Talwar alleged that the sewerage board did not bother to check the pipes and their level, creating a haphazard system. Moreover, the pipes were not of similar size and the contractor did not plaster manholes from inside, he has further alleged.
 
 He said because of these issues, areas like Sarwan Park, New Sarwan Park, Naginder Nagar, Jai Singh Nagar, Gujjar Colony, Golden Colony, Vardhman colony and even main Rahon Road get flooded with sewage water due to choking of pipes.
 
 He said MC is now getting the pipes cleaned with the help of super suction machines at the cost of Rs 78 lakh so that public should not face inconvenience. Sanjay Talwar claimed that Sidhu has marked an inquiry in this case with the chief vigilance officer and he has demanded report within one week.
 
 In May, the MC had started super suction cleaning of sewerage pipes on Rahon Road to provide relief to residents of localities like Jai Singh Nagar, Chander Lok Colony, Jain nagar, Sarwan Park, Naginder Nagar, Guru Vihar, Tilak Nagar, Baldev Nagar, Subhash Nagar, New Sarwan Park and Main Rahon Road from sewerage blockage. Even local bodies minister Navjot Sidhu had come for inspection of the work on May 27.
 
 
