CHANDIHGARH: City schools have asked the   for   not to hold them   being involved in accidents and direct them to pay compensation.

 The issue was raised in a workshop organized by the commission,   and the   (STA) on Friday.
 
 The authorities, however, pointed out that since Safe Transportation Policy for Students (STRAPS) defines the responsibility of schools, they are to be held responsible as they enter into a contract with transporters. But the schools were not impressed.
 
 Independent Schools Association president H S Mamik submitted a representation to the commission. He said, “Schools do not have technical knowledge to check if buses are in the required conditions. We can only ensure the buses are checked regularly by the STA. In case of accidents, the driver should be held responsible not the school. The schools too want safety of children but we are educators, not transporters.“
 
 He also demanded that the commission should not monitor the schools for buses as they were given this responsibility only once. “We can't be reporting to three authorities (STA, Traffic and Commission),“ he told TOI.
 
 ABS Sidhu, director-principal, Saupins schools and vice-president, ISA, said, “Schools are responsible for ensuring that the buses are manned by qualified personnel and they can ensure this by regularly checking. The same goes for buses and the equipment installed therein, but they cannot be held responsibleliable for incidental acts of commission or commission of those actually operating the buses.“
 
 Jasdeep Kalra, director, AKSIPS, said, “The core competency of a school is teaching. Monitoring traf fic, checking on bus drivers and conductors is the primary duty of the police and the STA. How on earth can one hold the principal or the management responsible for an act of omission done by a staff member outside the school premises. In case the school has deliberately not followed the law, then yes it can be held accountable.“
 
 Schools shared that they have been trying to meet expectations but the authorities need to help them further by providing guidance. Pooja Prakash, principal, KBDAV School, Sector 7, said, “We have been trying to match up to the expectations of the police, the commission and the STA. We may falter but in the end the intention is always to support the learner and remain accountable. The STA has been supportive. I am personally looking forward to some guidance from the authorities over issues like mesh over the bus window and non-combustible seat covers in school buses.“
 
 Harjinder Kaur, chairperson, commission, said “It is the duty of the school management to make arrangements to check the quality of buses and the manpower handling those buses as well as requisite quality of mandatory equipment as per the laid down parameters“. The commission, however, has decid ed to take up the matter seeking justification from schools and arrive at a logical conclusion after interacting with them.
 
 Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) had recently asked Mount Carmel School to pay Rs 75,000 to two students hurt in a bus accident.
 
 State Transport Authority (STA) additional secretary Rajiv Tewari said, “Parents send their wards in the bus because it has the school's name. They trust the school and STRAPS and CBSE too makes them responsible for school buses. So, they cannot run away .“
 
 “If schools cannot shoulder responsibility, they should also stay away from collecting transport fees and earning commissions. They just let PTAs manage the transport contracts and payments. Also, the high court has categorically held that school principal is responsible for compliance of safety measures in school transport,“ said Nitin Goyal, president, Chandigarh Parents Association.
 
