CHENNAI: Chennai is the next port of call for   president Amit Shah. After scripting a coup in Bihar, Shah is scheduled to arrive in Tamil Nadu on a three-day visit on August 22. He will attend party meetings in Chennai and Coimbatore. His previous scheduled visit was called off in May in the wake of a political turmoil - after R K Nagar election bribery charges put  's government in the dock. 

 Shah's landing in Chennai also comes close on the heels of the party's ability to bring both the warring factions in the AIADMK together to support the BJP candidates for the Presidential and   elections. Following the BJP announcing the candidature of Venkaiah Naidu for the VP post, both O Panneerselvam and Palaniswami paraded their MPs in Delhi to win over the hearts of those who matter in the BJP.
 
 Top BJP leaders say a complete overhaul of the party state machinery is high on Shah's agenda. Shah wants the party to strengthen its base before looking at possible alliance partners. "He is opposed to the age-old practice of piggy-back politics state BJP leaders are used to," said a senior leader. The BJP leadership is also holding talks with RSS functionaries to ascertain strengths and weaknesses of the present dispensation in the state BJP.
 
 The scheduled visit of the national president has kept the state unit on tenterhooks. It began a two-day meet at Karaikudi on Saturday with separate sessions of leaders in the core group, state office bearers and people in charge of parliamentary and assembly constituencies. The state executive committee meeting will take place on Sunday. The ongoing 'Vistarak' initiative to establish direct contacts with people began in June, but the party could enroll only three lakh additional members, sources said.
 
 In the light of the 2014 LS and 2016 assembly debacles, the national leadership wants to bring into BJP's fold many regional heavyweights, cutting across caste groups, to widen its reach. This could be a repeat of Uttar Pradesh, where Shah's meticulous social reengineering strategy paid off. "After the Presidential election and Bihar development, even small political outfits show interest in either merging with us or align with us during polls. They believe we can bring about a change here," party state general secretary Vanathi Srinivasan said.
 
