PUNE: The voting turnout in the   which has been around 50% to 55% in the 2007 and 2012 is expected to go up this time.   have planned efforts to take it up to 70%. 

 The authorities on Thursday said programmes will come up in the next 40 days to rope in the maximum voters. Housing societies, people’s associations and workers’ federations will be the focus. There will be awards for housing societies with the maximum voting percentage. 
 
 Municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar said the election machinery has identified localities that have consistently registered low voting percentage in the last few elections, and their maps are ready. Plans are being chalked out to reach to a maximum number of voters to get them to vote, this time, he added.
 
 “We will use social media to engage with voters. Besides 2,000 NSS students will reach to the voters with an appeal to exercise their right. Programmes will be held across the city to create awareness among voters. We will have to see how we touch every voter,” Kumar said.
 
 Over 26.42 lakh people from the city are expected to vote on February 21 to elect 162 corporators in 41 panels.
 
 The voting percentage registered significant growth in the   and state assembly elections in 2014 and the trend is likely to continue during the  , sources in the administration said.
 
 Sources said that the appeals will be displayed at public fora, colleges, camps and in theatres. The next one month will be crucial for the election machinery.
 
 160 objections to voters’ list 
 
 The civic election department has received over 160 objections to the draft voters’ list. Most pertained to listing of names in wrong panels. The department will accept the objections from people till January 17. Officials said that they were scrutinising the complaints/objections and changes will be introduced in the revised voters’ list which will be published on January 21. The voters’ list has been uploaded on PMC’s website for voters to check their names.
 
 Spotlight on able candidates 
 
 There is excitement about the civic polls among young voters in the city who said they cannot say how the newly formed house will function for the city’s development but their expectations from elected representatives would be high.
 
 Paurnima Gawari, 22, said this election will decide Pune’s development. “The city is in the Smart Cities Mission. We want to see how it will benefit. We will be looking for change,” Gawari said.
 
 Pushkar Kale, who is preparing for civil examinations, said his vote would be for an able candidate. “Every voter must think beyond caste, religion and political equations. Votes must go only to able candidates so that only “eligible” candidates will represent the city for the next five years,” he added.
 
 Software professional Gaurav Kamble said there is too much voter apathy and casting votes for an able candidate is a duty of every voter.
 
