Pune: Citizens’ groups have drawn the attention of election authorities to the confusion created by political parties about the   process by saying that unless voters cast all the four votes for the candidates of one party, their votes will be invalid. 

 The campaigners, quite cleverly, are stressing on voting for the same party symbol in the panel of four candidates. 
 
 This issue was raised by Pledge to Vote campaign – a citizens’ group working to increase voting percentage – with the election authorities on Friday. A memorandum was handed over to the election officials highlighting these issues as they feel it has created further confusion among the voters about the four-ward system where they have to press the button four times.
 
 Founder of the group Radhikesh Uttarwar and his team has visited over 150 societies in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. He told TOI that in his interactions with voters, he found that citizens almost believed that if they vote for one candidate of a particular party, they will have to cast their votes for the other three candidates of the same party. “In most societies, all candidates of a party campaigned together. They explained the voting   in such a way that citizens were made to believe they have to vote for all four candidates of one party in the panel and cannot make any other choice,” he said.
 
 A resident who did not want to be named said, “Party workers should stress that voters are free to choose any candidate of any party from the panel and do not have to vote for the same party.”
 
 Another resident who attended a meeting on Friday on voter awareness said the election authorities should have given strict guidelines to political parties about their campaigning. 
 
 “They should clearly explain that though their party has candidates in all the wards of the panels, citizens have the option of choosing candidates of other parties as well. We were made to believe that if we do not vote for the same symbol, then the vote would become invalid,’’ another resident from Vimannagar area said.
 
 The confusion has increased to such an extent that the Pledge to Vote campaign volunteers have to explain that the voter is free to choose any candidate from any of the four wards. However, the voter hardly knows all the candidates in the panel and may blindly follow these misleading campaigns by political parties. 
 
  (NSCC), who has been spreading awareness about voting among various mohalla communities, feels that the four-panel system has only distanced governance from citizens. “Who will really address the issues raised by the voter when four corporators are elected in every panel? What if they are from different parties? Will they work together to address the issue? These questions are raised in our meetings,’’ he added.
 
 
