NEW DELHI: After a Haryana minister and BJP leader   said   is a "bigger brand" than Gandhi, his comments were called "stupendously idiotic" by Congress chief  's son-in-law  .

 "I want to tell the BJP mantri, Anil Vij, 'that the kind of statements you have made about the father of nation, are stupendously idiotic,' Vadra said in a Facebook post yesterday.
 
 Vij was speaking about PM Modi's photograph replacing Gandhi's in the calendar and the diary of the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC).
 
 "It's good that PM Modi's photo was placed in on the 2017 calendar and diaries published by the KVIC, as Modi is a bigger brand than Gandhi," Vij said, adding that Khadi is not patented in Gandhi's name. To add insult to injury, Vij also said the sale of khadi items "has increased by 14 per cent ever since Modi got associated with it."
 
 Vadra, who is the husband of Sonia's daughter  , said Gandhi is "above every political party and deserves to be protected."
 
 "I am truly shocked and deeply saddened to see the current Govt. leaders have resorted to cheap and dirty politics. Dragging Mahatma Gandhi ji, into senseless controversies is unacceptable and trying to grab his place as the 'face of Khadi' is extremely demeaning," Vadra wrote.
 
 In his zeal, Vij went so far as to say that that the devaluation of currency notes started ever since Gandhi's photo was printed on them."
 
 "He said, 'money started devaluing the day Mahatma Gandhi's face was stuck to notes'!! Such disrespect to Bapu will not be tolerated by Indians," wrote an irate Vadra.
 
 Many politicians, including BJP leaders, condemned Vij's statements.
 
 "BJP strongly condemns statement of Anil Vij, it's his personal remark and not party's stand. Mahatma Gandhi is our icon," BJP's Shrikant Sharma told ANI.
 
 Vadra indicated that the BJP isn't really bothered.
 
 " 'Father of the Nation'. That is the utmost respect given to a person, who fought all obstacles and sacrificed his life, to bring freedom and independence, to a country. Mahatma Gandhi Ji, and his title is above every political party and deserves to be protected," Vadra said on Facebook.
 
 "One can only expect such kind of objectionable and nonsensical statements from BJP's leaders and ministers," Congress leader RS   said while condemning Anil Vij's statement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
