NEW DELHI: Already fraught Pakistan-Afghanistan relations took a turn for the worse yesterday, as Afghanistan's spy agency allegedly "detained and tortured" two   embassy staffers "for hours", Pakistani media reported. And in a coincidental twist, Pakistan - which India has accused of violating a 1961 convention of diplomatic relations in the   - accused Afghanistan of violating the Vienna Convention.

 "It was emphasised that such incidents undermined the constructive engagement which the two countries envisaged for strengthening of bilateral ties," a Pakistan foreign office statement was quoted as saying, according to Dawn.
 
 The two Pakistani embassy staffers were out shopping when they were picked up by Afghan spy agency, the National Directorate of Security and taken to one of their detention centres along with the embassy's official vehicle, a source told Dawn.
 
 “We urge the Afghan government to take immediate steps to ensure the security and safety of our diplomatic personnel and premises and to ensure that such incident do not take place in future,” the Pakistan foreign office reportedly said.
 
 This incident comes 10 days after the Pakistani army said it killed over 50 Afghan soldiers near the border between the two countries. This, in turn, occurred after tensions between the two countries spiked after clashes killed 10 Pakistani civilians in the first week of May.
 
 Just yesterday, representatives of Pakistan and Afghanistan agreed to maintain a ceasefire along the border till they hammered out a consensus.
 
 During the meeting, the Afghan delegation asked that the Pakistani troops deployed on its international border be moved from the area before conducting a census survey, Pakistani media reported.
 
 The Pakistani delegation reportedly responded saying the country's troops were deployed along the international border on the Pakistani side and would remain there.
 
 Kabul, like India and the US, has said time and again that Pakistan provides terrorists sanctuary - terrorists who strike in India and n Afghanistan. For Afghanistan, it is groups like the Pakistani   and the   network who have consistently made it a target.
 
 "Afghan-oriented militant groups, including Taliban and Haqqani network senior leadership, retain freedom of action from safe havens inside Pakistani territory," the Pentagon said in December in its six-monthly report to the Congress.
 
 "The Haqqani network, which has the backing of elements within the Pakistani security establishment, is one of Afghanistan's most experienced and sophisticated insurgent organizations," said the Washington-based Institute for the Study of War.
 
 Pakistan says Afghanistan supports terrorists.
 
 
