PUNE: A night out in Mumbai turned into a nightmare for seven college students from Pune when two of them died after the speeding multi-utility vehicle they were travelling by crashed into the wall of a duct and flipped over near   bridge, close to Malavli on the Pune-Mumbai expressway on Friday.

 The MUV brushed along the Brifen ropes installed along the median for a few metres before hitting the wall. The brush reduced the impact of the crash, said a senior officer from the Highway Safety Patrol (HSP).
 
 The Lonavla Rural police identified the deceased students as Debjit Lahiri (20) of Dange Chowk, Thergaon, who hailed from West Bengal and Vedant Mahajan (18) of Wakad, hailing from Indore in Madhya Pradesh. 
 
 Lahiri and Mahajan were second-year Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) students of a Tathawade-based private management college.
 
 The injured students Vishal Prajapat (19), Ishan Chaturvedi (20), Ayush Kashid (23), Vipul Patidar (20), Mukul Yadav (19) and Kuldeep Patidar (22) reside at Thergaon. They are being treated in private hospitals in Nigdi and Talegaon. They are management students also pursuing a commerce degree of the same college.
 
 An officer from the   police said the students on Thursday night had gone to Mumbai for an outing. They hired the MUV and left Pune around 11.30pm. “After reaching Mumbai early on Friday, the students travelled to various spots in Mumbai and reached Marine Drive around 4am,” the officer added.
 
 They left Marine Drive around 4.30am and started towards Pune. “Chaturvedi was driving the MUV. They reached Devle bridge on the expressway around 6.30am,” the officer added.
 
 Chaturvedi lost control over the wheel of his vehicle on the stretch between Devle bridge and Malavli. “After skidding for a few metres, the MUV dashed against the wall of the duct. The vehicle flipped on its roof after the dash,” the officer said.
 
 Lahiri was killed on the spot. Police and workers of Ideal Road Builders took the injured to hospital where Mahajan succumbed to his injuries, the officer added.
 
