NOIDA: Seeking respite from the unending traffic snarls in the city, Confederation of NCR Residents Welfare Associations (CONRWA) on Monday wrote to Noida Authority CEO Deepak Agarwal urging the authority to implement a series of measures recommended by the federation. A copy of the letter, in which the confederation has drawn the attention of the authority towards the mismanagement of parking spaces and encroachment, has also been sent to district magistrate Nagendra Prasad Singh.

 “Despite wide roads in Noida, parking spaces and vehicle movement are not managed properly, especially during the peak hours. Though the authority has taken many initiatives in the past to mitigate the issue, desired results are yet to be achieved,” P S Jain, president, CONRWA, told TOI.
 
 Among the series of measures suggested, the confederation has recommended dedicated   in   and redesigning and widening of all the crossings to ensure free flow of traffic. “The crossings should have a divider in order to avoid traffic snarls,” said Sharma.
 
 Besides, the confederation has also sent a slew of recommendations to reconsider the management of parking spaces. In the letter, the RWA federation has suggested that the parking contracts should not be awarded to the highest bidder, but to those contractors who can ensure single-lane parking in organised manner. ‘Multiple lane parking, a practice which is currently followed to earn more money, should be discontinued. Also, the practice of the contractors giving authorised parking spaces to hawkers on daily, weekly or monthly basis should be curbed as it reduces the parking spaces,’ says the letter.
 
 “The other practice of renting out parking spaces to car dealers also has to stop immediately,” said Jain.
 
 In several parts of the city, including Sector 18, parking of vehicles on the roads adjoining the footpaths creates hassles for pedestrians. CONRWA has also demanded that such roads be turned into ‘No Parking Zone.’
 
 “At least 50 meters of the area around all crossings and diversions should be declared as ‘No Parking Zone‘. Parking here disrupts traffic movement. Also, even autorickshaw stands in these areas should be relocated,” said Chetan Sharma, secretary general, CONRWA.
 
 
