VARANASI: Did overzealous   (VMC) reseal a slaughterhouse closed in 2012 to hide their inaction following strict measures ordered against illegal slaughterhouses by BJP chief minister Aditya Nath after assuming office on March 19? 

 The   slaughter house was closed on March 5, 2012, for not fulfilling the prescribed norms, days before SP leader   was sworn in as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh on March 15. It was again sealed on March 21, 2017, after Aditya Nath took over the reins of the state, apparently over charges of continuing illegal slaughter of animals. The charge, however, has been denied by those associated with the facility.
 
 The VMC authorities justify the resealing and claim that action was taken in accordance with the directive of the government. But local people linked with the slaughterhouse say that as it was closed in 2012 itself, the resealing has been done just to appease the government and save blushes to the VMC which had taken over the 7,760 square feet property on lease for a period of 29 years in October 2016 for converting it into a modern slaughterhouse.
 
 "Since then nothing has been done. The slaughterhouse was closed five years back and there was no activity. Ye toh murde ko dubara fansi dene jaisa hai (It is like hanging a dead body)," said those linked with the slaughterhouse.
 
 "We do not want to do any illegal business. But we fail to understand what the officials wanted to prove by resealing the slaughter house that was closed in 2012 itself. It is nothing but an attempt to hide their mistakes and wrong deeds," said Abdul Kalam, a resident of Kamal Garha area and associated with the slaughterhouse. 
 
 According to Kalam, about 25,000 families of Muslims are dependent on this slaughterhouse which is the property of Al-Quraish Welfare Society.
 
 "The VMC had taken over the property on lease in October 2016 for converting it into a modern slaughterhouse, but nothing has been done so far. We are paying the price for the fault of municipal authorities as we were kept in the dark about the progress of the project. Today, when the new government is enforcing the law, we are at the receiving end. We wish the government takes congnizance of the issue and a just action is taken in this connection," he added.
 
 "The slaughterhouse was resealed on the information of illegal butchering of animals. The action was taken as per the directive of the government," said municipal commissioner Srihari Pratap Shahi when asked about the logic of resealing the closed slaughterhouse. 
 
 Justifying the delay in converting it into a modern slaughterhouse, Shahi said a tender for the project could not be invited due to promulgation of model code of conduct for assembly elections. "The tender for this purpose will be invited soon," he added.
 
 
