MUMBAI: The Supreme Court-appointed   (CoA), on Saturday night, listed the amended memorandum of rules and regulations that govern   on the Board's website. The amendments to the by-laws of the BCCI were adopted at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on November 9, 2015.

 The amended memorandum, among other things, also states: The Board shall appoint an independent auditor to scrutinize the statement of accounts with regard to the payments made by the Board to the member and all further payments due to a member, associate member and an affiliate member shall be released after the audit report. The existing memorandum and the amended memorandum have both been uploaded on the board's website with interpretations. For instance, an existing clause under the 'powers and duties of the Board' read: "To frame the Laws of Cricket in India and to make alteration, amendments or additions to the Laws of Cricket in India whenever desirable or necessary."
 
 The CoA has amended this clause and the updated clause is now as follows: "To frame the Playing Conditions for Cricket in India and to make such alterations, amendments or additions to the Playing Conditions whenever desirable." The CoA has also included the appointment of an ombudsman, has taken away the powers of the BCCI president in dealing with the finality in case of dispute regarding a vote, has curbed the powers vested with the treasurer and the joint secretary.
 
 
 
 
 A day after the CoA took "serious note" of state associations' demand for payments to host   matches, BCCI CEO   wrote back to these associations, reminding them about the "usual protocol" followed by BCCI in these matters. Addressed to 10 state associations, the letter says: "We have received a letter dated March 2, 2017 from   in relation to the amount of Rs 30 lakh per match for hosting IPL. "You are aware that as per the standard tripartite agreements, the amount is payable by BCCI within 14 days from the day the tournament ends and is subject to and conditional upon the performance in full and at each match of the hosting association's obligations". Based on the agreement, Johri has conveyed to the associations that their demand for payment on 'ASAP basis' is not justified.
 
