BENGALURU: Making an allout-effort to woo young and first-time voters to the party fold, chief minister   is contemplating increasing the ceiling on annual family income for availaing free laptops to be distributed by the state government.Currently , the annual income limit has been fixed at Rs 2.5 lakh with around 1.5 lakh first-year degree students identified as potential beneficiaries.

 “But the CM wants the laptop scheme to cover more students. We are exploring the financial implications of increasing the income limit to Rs 5-6 lakh per annum. A decision will be taken soon," an official in the higher education department said.
 
 In fact, Siddaramaiah dropped hints about increasing the income limit at a public function in Koppal two days ago when he said laptops will be distributed to 1.96 lakh students in the first year of their graduation.
 
 Distribution of free laptops was first announced in the 2017-18 budget and it was confined to students from the  . However, during a cabinet meeting in August it was decided to extend the scheme to students from all communities whose family income is below Rs 2.5 lakh per annum.
 
 “We are waiting for government orders to invite tenders from companies for supply of laptops. The income limit of Rs 2.5 lakh per annum will cover nearly 90% of the students in governmentrun colleges. But if the ceiling is raised, almost all gov ernment college students and poor students studying in government-aided colleges will also be eligible for laptops,“ the official added.
 
 But the question is: Why is Siddaramaiah keen on increasing the coverage of the laptop scheme? Sources in the   said the CM is planning to use the laptop scheme to checkmate the   on two fronts: One, making inroads into the BJP's ready votebank of youths. Two, dispelling notions that the Congress comes out with schemes only for the AHINDA (acronym for  ,   and  ).
 
 The Congress hopes the laptop will strike an emotional chord with the first-time voters and poor families. Siddaramaiah had said: “It is usually children from affluent families who buy laptops, those from the economically weaker sections cannot afford to buy even if they have to. We want to ensure that even poor students get to own laptops.“
 
 Moreover, the laptop scheme is likely to eclipse the previous BJP government's flagship scheme of distributing bicycles to school students. “We are moving into an age where internet connectivity has started penetrating into the villages and youngsters have started sporting smartphones and speaking the gigabyte language. Distributing laptops will definitely make Siddaramaiah more popular among the youngsters as he would help them realize their aspirations,“ sources in the Congress said.
 
 
 
 
 While some may dismiss chief minister Siddaramaiah's laptop largesse as a poll gimmick to woo youngsters, it clearly has the potential to transform lives Giving young people, who otherwise cannot afford these devices, the opportunity to use them will enrich their learning experience and, coupled with hi-speed internet access, broaden their horizons immensely. For young people with fire in the belly and the desire to explore new avenues, a laptop could well the key to higher learning. The scheme should go beyond electoral one-upmanship and be all about empowering young persons realise their dreams.
 
