NEW DELHI: The   government has opted to break from tradition in selecting its next set of secretaries by opting to empanel officers from the 1984 and 1985 batches of the   in one go. 

 In the process, it ended up significantly reducing the number of officers from a batch promoted to the top job, which is much coveted in the bureaucracy.
 
 But the heartburn is not limited to reducing the number alone but also change in norms for appointment of "secretary-equivalents".
 
 For instance, 17 officers from the batch that joined the IAS in 1984 have been empanelled as full-time secretaries, while there are 20 from 1985. In contrast, 31 had made it as secretaries from the 1983 batch, while another 11 were given secretary-equivalent grade. From the 1982 batch, 28 officers had become secretaries when the first list was released, and eight were given the rank and pay of secretaries.
 
 An officer empanelled as a secretary goes on to head a department or a ministry, while a secretary-equivalent earns the salary of a secretary but heads entities such as Directorate General of Supplies & Disposal or   Authority of India. Some officers from this category also retire as special secretaries in various governments and departments.
 
 In the past, the norm was to appoint those with less than two years of service to posts that were secretary-equivalent. This time, however, the government has opted to designate some with just around 18 months to go as full-time secretaries, while some officers who have three-six years to retire will serve the remainder of their tenure as "secretary-equivalent", running the risk of reporting to their juniors in the years to come.
 
  The change in policy comes days after the Niti Aayog, the government think tank, batted for longer tenure for officers by recommending quicker promotions. A two- or three-year term was seen to be too short for top jobs in the government when private sector bosses often spent 10-15 years planning and executing strategies. 
 
 In any case, there has been considerable chatter in the bureaucracy over the so-called 360 degree profiling that the   government has opted for where feedback from colleagues plays a critical role in promotion and appointment of officers.
 
  Some bureaucrats complain that the system not only lacks transparency but gives undue advantage to colleagues who may want to get even.
 
 
