GHODAZARI: Even as the   has proposed Ghodazari, home of Jai’s siblings — Bittu and Shriniwas, as a 200 sq km wildlife sanctuary, a part of it has been thrown open for ecotourism. The proposal has already been sent to state’s chief wildlife warden.

 Though wildlife excursion is available in buffer zones of Pench and Tadoba tiger reserves, Ghodazari, 103 kms from Nagpur, is the first jungle safari in the state to be opened in any territorial forest area. 
 
 “Presently, a 25 kms safari route through dense forest is open from Ghodazari gate. We spent Rs60 lakh on the project, but entire show will be run by joint forest management committee (JFMC),  , a small village in the forest,” said Bramhapuri deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) Ashish Thakre.
 
 The ecotourism was just an idea last year and was turned into a reality from January 7, when the safari was opened. Ghodazari falls in the tourism circuit of Umred-Karhandla wildlife sanctuary and Tadoba. From Nagpur, one can visit Umred-Karhandla, Ghodazari and Kolsa gate of Tadoba.
 
 Among the other tourist attractions include   at Shankarpur near Chimur, which has megalithic culture of Peninsular India and is known for bewildering type of burials like stone cirdes, menhirs, dolmens, cists etc largely associated with early Iron Age of India.
 
 Besides, Dongargaon’s painted hill rock shelters can also be an added attraction. These rock shelters are part of Perjagarh-Nagbhid hill range. The rock paintings depict style of animal and human painting drawn by ancient man using natural red ochre pigment. Both the sites are 25 kms from Ghodazari.
 
 Ghodazari forest safari itself is enchanting. The safari route starts ahead of huge Chindimal lake surrounded by forest. Lot of bird activity was seen near the lake. “The route has been carved out without damaging trees. We cleaned the entire forest and removed at least 5 sacks of plastic and pouches. It is now thing of the past,” says Prakash Meshram, president of JFMC.
 
 The entire virgin forest reminds you about Raj era. The bawdi, a stone step water well near Ranubai jhara and old temple surrounded by big trees itself speaks volumes about the quality and age of the forest. The mixed forest is lush green and an ideal tiger habitat. “We have recorded presence of six tigers including Bittu and Shriniwas in the area. As the area falls in   corridor, presence of wildcats is not new in the area,” claimed Thakre.
 
 The department has also developed two artificial water bodies (forest lakes) near Borban for wildlife. Just ahead is a hotspot called ‘Wagh Chouda’ (got name due to tiger sightings).
 
 Apart from safari, the other recreation activities include 5-km-long nature trail and bicycle track near the huge Ghodazari lake. One feel really refreshing while walking along the lake side. “The department has procured 10 bicycles for visitors,” said Meshram.
 
 Thakre says private vehicles are allowed in safari and two Gypsies will be made available soon for tourists. Now entry to the lake side will not be free.
 
 
