BHUBANESWAR: Maoist threat forced the   (SEC) to   in Malkangiri's   block. 

 The SEC made the announcement, based on a report jointly submitted by the district collector and superintendent of police (SP), on Saturday. The report said adequate security personnel cannot be deployed for the safety and security of poll personnel in the cut-off areas.
 
 "The law and order situation in the block is not satisfactory as per a report filed by the district administration. So, we have decided to postpone the elections in Chitrakonda block," said SEC secretary R N Sahu.
 
 The block with strong Maoist presence has 222 wards, 18 each gram panchayats and samitis and two zilla parishad zones. Fearing Maoist attack, not a single nomination was filed for the posts of sarpanchs and ward members in the nine panchayats in the cut-off areas.
 
 The announcement to   came a day after DGP K B Singh visited the cut-off areas and assured of adequate security for the peaceful conduct of elections. "We are keeping a close watch on the developments and adequate security will be provided in the cut-off area where filing of nomination process was affected due to Maoist threat," he said, after reviewing the situation there. 
 
 Last week, the Maoists had released five poll officials after producing them in a 'praja' court (kangaroo court of the Maoists) in the cut-off area. The poll officials were let off with a warning to not to come to the area in the future for poll-related work.
 
 The rebels had, through posters put up at several places in the cut-off areas, also opposed the panchayat poll and asked villagers to boycott it.
 
 The cut-off areas under Chitrakonda block are surrounded by reservoir water created by the Balimela hydroelectricity project. More than 20,000 people from 10 gram panchayats don't have any access to road and electricity. The villagers depend on a motor-operated launch to go to the block headquarters.
 
 The poll panel, meanwhile, announced fresh dates for filing nomination in places where no nomination was filed during January 11 to January 17. The polling in these places would be held according to the pre-announced schedule.
 
