NEW DELHI: Delhi will get unprecedented security cover from Sunday night to prevent the   of Jat agitators into the capital.   has sought the deployment of more than 130 companies of paramilitary forces in the city and in border areas. The surveillance being considered in view of threats by the protestors on disruption of essential services in Delhi can be gauged from the fact that even for Republic Day, the security is handled by around 100 companies.

 A slew of pre-emptive measures was announced on Saturday. Unlawful assembly of people have been banned across the city under Section 144 of the CrPC. This will be stringent in the borders of the city, where the cops have created temporary detention centres to house unrelenting demonstrators. Police have been instructed to be extra vigilant against criminals reaching the city in the guise of protesters because intelligence inputs suggest attempts will be made to disrupt peace during the protest.
 
 Security personnel have been ordered to ensure that the Jat protesters do not curtail the movement of essential supplies and milk, water and food products to Delhi from the neighbouring states. Police asked civic bodies to halt construction work along the border roads and keep construction materials away from the reach of potential troublemakers. They also requested PWD to remove boulders and concrete pipes from roadsides to prevent their use as roadblocks.
 
 Police officers in the bordering districts have been directed to meet Delhi-based Jat leaders and solicit their help in preventing protesters from coming to Delhi. In any case, vehicles carrying more than five people will not be allowed into Delhi until Tuesday, when the security situation will be reviewed.
 
 Police Commissioner Amulya Patnaik will personally monitor the situation and has conferred with special commissioners, joint commissioners and deputy commissioners on the steps to be taken to ensure peace. “We appeal to the protesters to maintain peace, else strict action will be taken,” said Patnaik. Battalions of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police will man the borders of Delhi with Haryana and UP from Sunday. Section 144 CrPC will be invoked in Gurgaon too, and sale of liquor suspended in the district for the next few days. Refill stations will not be allowed to sell petrol and diesel in bulk to tractors.
 
 Gurgaon deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh said, “We have divided the district into 32 areas and assigned a duty magistrate in each. The focus will be on railway stations, metro rail stations, Delhi-Gurgaon expressway and GT Road.”
 
 
