THRISSUR: The   (AERB) has finally approved the purchase of a new radiation source for the radio-therapy machine at the   (TMCH), raising fresh hopes for the   in Thrissur, Palakkad and  . Patients from some parts of Ernakulam also depend on TMCH for radiation.

 The machine, purchased over 13 years ago, has been frequently going out of action of late.
 
 Though around 300 patients register for radiation daily, the hospital is able to provide treatment to only 300 among them because of the lower capacity of the machine. Often, the radiation sessions begin at 7am and continue till about 2am the next day.
 
 TMCH had to cut down the number of patients to 20 when the machine got damaged in August 2016. The facility has become dysfunctional at least five times since then, compromising the quality of the treatment. Experts say the biology of the cancer disease mandates that the patients must be given radiation in the prescribed dosages and frequency on a continuous basis.
 
 Meanwhile, the machine had gone out of action two days ago and was repaired on Friday.
 
 Experts had recommended replacement of the radio-active source of the existing equipment at the TMCH at the earliest. The system had already crossed its normal life span of 10 years.
 
 The government had sanctioned Rs 1 crore for the source replacement and had permitted the TMCH authorities to allocate the remaining amount from the hospital development society (HDS). However, the replacement was getting delayed due to various technical and bureaucratic hitches.
 
 “We will have to remit about Rs 62 lakh in DD to the Board of Radiation and Isotope Technology of the Department of Atomic Energy as the cost of the cobalt radiation source. Then they will transfer the source to Thrissur under high security. In between the steps for overhauling the machine can also be launched. Radiation treatment will have to be completely suspended during the overhauling operations. All these might take more than a month. We hope to resume radiation by the middle of March,” said Dr  , radio-therapy division of the TMCH.
 
