Manali: A five-month old child died in a landslide as heavy rains wreaked havoc in Himachal Pradesh, disrupting normal life in many parts of the state and severing road links in various parts of the state. 

 A five-month-old child was buried under the debris after a landslide hit a house at Devidhar village of Rohru area in Shimla district on Tuesday morning. Sources said a massive landslide hit the house of Chunnu Ram, burying the infant under the debris. Although villagers pulled out the child from the debris, he succumbed.
 
 Meanwhile, heavy downpour in Rohtang area triggered landslides, disrupting traffic on Manali-Leh highway. Besides, with the Beas is spate, the administration has alerted residents staying too close to its banks. However, as a large number of tourists continue to throng the river banks, cops have been deputed to keep them at a safe distance.
 
 As a precautionary measure, the Manali-Leh highway will be shut for vehicular traffic between Gulaba and Koksar on Tuesday night. Police checkposts on either side of the Rohtang Pass have been asked not to allow traffic towards the mountain pass. 
 
 Dharamshala-McLeodganj road, too, was blocked due to massive landslide. Link roads were also affected at most places in interior areas of Kangra. The heavy rains have increased the silt level in Satluj River and gates of 1200 Karcham-Wangtoo and 1500 Natpha Jhakri project are being opened for flushing out the silt. Shimla deputy commissioner Rohan Chand Thakur has warned the people residing near the banks of Satluj to Sunni to avoid going near the river bank as rise in water level can cause flash floods.
 
 Manali deputy superintendent of police Puneet Raghu said Border Roads Organization has recommended that vehicles be stopped at Gulaba as there are freqent landslides between Marhi and Rahni nullah. “Keeping in view the safety of road users, traffic will be stopped in night time and will be resumed on Wednesday, after getting clearance of road condition from BRO,” he said.
 
 Commander of 38 Border Road Task Force, Col Arvind Awasthi said the Rohtang area has been experiencing very heavy rainfall, which is triggering landslides. “We cleared the debris in the afternoon. But more rain can trigger more landslides. It is not advisable to drive at night as there is a possibility of more rain,” he said.
 
 Kullu deputy commissioner Yunus has issued an advisory for tourists and local residents to stay away from rivers and rivulets. “Tourists should not take the risk of taking up river rafting and paragliding. These activities are already banned till mid September. Those living close to the river should move to safe places. The water level can increase suddenly anytime,” he said.
 
 Driving risky on Mandi-Manali national highway 
 
 Manali: Rolling boulders, deep potholes, no protection walls, landslides and rivers in spate make driving extremely risky along the Mandi-Manali national highway. Although this is the most dangerous stretch of the Chandigarh-Manali highway, elsewhere it has deep potholes. Besides, the road straddles the Beas in most places, making driving dangerous these days as there are no protection walls and parapets are missing at many places. The highway has many landslide prone zones, which have not been protected for over the years. At many places, boulders keep bombarding the highway in the rainy season. 
 
 Work for four-laning of the highway has deteriorated its condition, giving it deep pits at many places. Road excavation has led to water flowing on the highway and giving it a slippery mud spread. As the raw material is stacked by the roadside, a very narrow stretch is left for driving. 
 
 Public works department (national highway) executive engineer Raujif Sheikh put the onus for road maintenance on the contractors engaged for the four-laning project. “Except for a small stretch near Hanogi, all required repairs in the highway will be done by the contractors who have been awarded the work. As widening of the highway in Hanogi area is not possible, there is a proposal to build tunnels here,” he said.
 
 
