PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: A loyal   worker, Ajay Kharade, has been nominated from Pimprigaon panel for the   municipal elections. What’s interesting about his nomination is that unlike his experienced heavyweight political counterparts from other parties, he is merely an autorickshaw driver.

 Pitted against the likes of former standing committee chairman Dabbu Aswani of the   and   of the Shiv Sena, Kharade is the dark horse in the poll race. An autorickshaw driver since 1992, Kharade claims he is aware of the problems faced by both common people and the rich, as both classes travel in his vehicle.
 
 Contesting for the first time, he has been working actively in social and cultural fields for many years. “I am walking up to the doorsteps of Pimprigaon residents, along with two other candidates Manju Ovhal and Mahadev Walunjkar. The fourth candidate was not nominated because he could not submit his nomination,” Kharade, a resident of Pimpri Waghere, said.
 
 Some candidates from the main parties have their assets running into crores of rupees. In contrast, Kharade’s movable and immovable assets total Rs 36.52 lakh. Kharade says he has reached out to every family, whether rich or poor, and they have promised to vote for the party. There are over 48,000 voters in the Pimprigaon panel.
 
 “The Congress is the only party with a history of over 130 years. It has a vision for development of the city. There are several development works which are pending. The issue of flood lines of Pavana and Indrayani rivers is only in Pimpri Chinchwad. Another issue is that of penalty tax on unauthorized constructions. We want to solve the problem of unauthorized constructions. The party will complete all works in the development plan using central and state government funds or through public-private partnership mode,” Kharade, who has passed std IX, said.
 
 A member of the Rajiv Gandhi Prathisthan, he unexpectedly met Congress president Sonia Gandhi in August last year. Sandesh Navle of the prathisthan and Kharade presented a model of a bullock cart to Gandhi. Kharade denies that he got the party ticket because of his meeting with the party president. 
 
