BHOPAL: Revival of monsoon and warning of heavy rainfall by weather office in some parts of the state, to an extent, is likely to comfort farmers and bring smile on faces of farmers creased with worries. A break of almost 15 days after the monsoon made a landfall, soyabean seeds sown began to wilt after the rain break. Damage to crop allegedly led a farmer to commit suicide in Sagar on Sunday. 

 After monsoon break of almost 15 days, weather office issued a warning for heavy rainfall at isolated places in Balaghat Mandla, Rewa, Sidhi, Singrauli, Jabalpur, Dindori and Shahdol districts of the state during next 24 hours.
 
 After a few spells of showers, heavy in some parts of the state, including Bhopal, farmers went ahead with sowing of soyabean. But a long break after that heightened worries of farmers and those tasked with managing water supply to state capital and other cities and town across the state. 
 
 After germination, growth of the seedling stopped, said Nandlal a farmer, who is resident of Chopra village on Vidisha Road. Farmers in fact are praying for a fresh spell of rain for kharif crops, he said. In many parts of the state, prayers are being held to appease the rain god.
 
 But an upper air cyclonic circulation stretching from West Bihar to north east and east MP brought smiles on the face of farmers.
 
 Weatherman termed this system as “medium strong” and said it would bring good rainfall over various parts of the state. Rainfall may also take place at Katni, Satna,Umaria, Raisen, Damoh and   districts of the state. 
 
 Indian   circle director   said, “Chances of rainfall in Bhopal marginally improved slowly in next few days. Monsoon is getting active over east MP. Chances may also improve slowly in central MP.”
 
 However, in Bhopal, weather office said, chances of rainfall improved only “marginally”.
 
 In its forecast for next 24 hours, weather office said there would be mainly cloudy sky over Bhopal with likely chance of rain or thunder shower. It was a pleasant morning on Monday with drizzling in some parts of the city, but as the day progressed, clouds dissipated creating hot and humid weather conditions again.
 
 
