PATNA: In yet another blow to Lalu Prasad, the  ,   has issued stay order on the construction of the Delite Mall at Saguna Mor in Patna. The mall is coming up on a two-acre plot owned by Lara Projects Limited Liability Partnership, an alleged shell firm run by the   chief’s family.
 
  It is alleged that the mandatory environmental clearance from the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) has not been taken for the project. The Union ministry has asked the state government to stop the construction work and submit a compliance report within three weeks.
  
  The order has been sent to the state principal secretary (forests) with a copy each to the member-secretary of Bihar State Pollution Control Board, SEIAA chairman and Abu Dojana, CMD of the Meridian Construction (India) Limited, which is developing the mall. Dojana is an RJD MLA.
  
  The action has been taken in response to a memorandum submitted by state BJP MLC and former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi to the Union forest ministry on May 11.
  
  “Environmental clearance is required to be taken from the SEIAA for any construction over an area above 2 lakh square feet. However, no such clearance was taken in case of this mall with a built-up area of 7.66 lakh square feet. The SEIAA was supposed to report the violation to the Centre, but it didn’t,” Modi said at a press conference at the state BJP HQ in Patna on Friday.
  
  Modi said the mall is proposed to be a 12+2 (basement)-storey structure with provisions for a five-star hotel, a multiplex, a shopping mall, an office tower and 1,000 shops.
  
  The leader of opposition in the state legislative council claimed the Lara Projects has two shareholders, Lalu’s wife Rabri Devi (85%) and son   (15%). The firm’s two directors are Chanda Lalu and Ragini Yadav, both daughters of Lalu.
  
  Dojana, however, said the construction work had not yet started and only excavation work had been carried out at the mall site. “We will approach the authorities concerned as and when we require to get environmental clearance,” the MLA said.
