JAIPUR: The urban development and housing (UDH) department will constituted a settlement committee to terminate the existing contract between  , Sanjose-Supreme joint venture (JV) and bankers.

 The decision was taken in empowered committee meeting, chaired by the UDH minister Shrichand Kriplani, held at state assembly. 
 
 This would be the last step before awarding the work to   (NHAI). “The minister will decide the president and member of settlement committee. The committee will consider aspects of all three parties. All three parties will have to adhere to committees’ decision,” said an official present in the meeting. 
 
 Before signing memorandum of understanding (MoU) between Jaipur Development Authority ( ) and (NHAI), state government will constitute a settlement committee to resolve the issue amicably. Sources informed, “Dispute between both firms has occurred over signing the settlement agreement. The minister has announced the chairman of both the companies—Sanjose and Supreme — who will be liable to sign the settlement contract,” said an official.
 
 In a previous empowered committee, conditions of agreements, which will be signed between NHAI and JDA was finalised after discussions. 
 
 As per agreement, NHAI will provide Rs 350 crore to JDA in 10 years. “NHAI would provide Rs 35 crore to JDA every year. It would also provide 8 % interest to the authority. Once the agreement document is prepared, we would seek appointment with Union minister Nitin Gadkari and MoU will be inked in New Delhi,” said offical 
 
 Official source informed, “JDA has made expenditures on receiving approvals for the project. Moreover, it would provide land to NHAI for the project which would provide this amount annually in return.” 
 
 As NHAI would be appointed to take forward the long pending project soon, state government is eyeing to complete project the till August 2018 before state assembly elections. 
 
 According to officials, NHAI will take two months more to initiate the work of long pending 47 km   project. JDA would also take possession of remaining land of 29 hectares for the project soon. “Union minister Nitin Gadkari has already given directions to NHAI officials to prepare a detailed project report (DPR). Remaining land would be provided once the construction is started,” added the minister. 
 
