Gurgaon: People who bought flats at  , a residential project on a 5-acre plot in Gurgaon’s Sector 57, are upset with the builder because it has given possession in four of its five towers without obtaining the mandatory occupation   from the town and country planning department. Not just this, the fifth tower (called D6) is still incomplete with work stalled for more than three years now.

 The project by AEZ Infratech on Golf Course Extension Road was launched in 2005; possession was promised in 2008. The project has 200 residential units across five towers.
 
 Mahendra Pal, Aloha   president, said around 87 families have been living in the society for the past three years but said the towers were in bad shape due to poor quality of work. He said there is no   agreement in place and other essential services are missing.
 
 “Services like security, parking, lift and waste management are in a mess. Work on the club building has not started yet. The flats handed over have poor workmanship, incomplete internal roads, leaking basement and there are many other deficiencies in the flats,” he added.
 
 “The developer had promised to get the occupation certificate (OC) in a few months, but three years have passed and still there is no OC,” Pal said.
 
 Kanika Abbot, who booked a flat in tower D6, said, “Most of the buyers have paid around 90% of the flat cost but still we are left in the lurch with no idea when we will get our flat.” 
 
 Another flat owner in D6, Dipankar Majumdar, said the people who have flats in D6 tower are the worst affected. There are 60 apartments and two penthouses in this tower. “There has been no work in this tower for more than three years,” said Majumdar.
 
 In 2015, the developer joined hands with homebuyers and collected Rs 5 lakh from each buyer, signed an agreement that he will put an equal amount of the money to start construction. But before the work could be completed the joint account was attached on the basis of a court order in November 2016 in response to a petition filed by a creditor of the developer for non-payment of dues. The account seized by the court had a balance of Rs 80 lakh.
 
 When contacted, assistant town planner (ATP) RS Bhatth said, “Soon we will hold a meeting of buyers and developer to address the grievances of buyers and ensure completion of the project.”
 
 Spokesperson for AEZ Group, Shrey Aeren claimed the charges were baseless and said necessary approvals and permission were in place. He even promised to complete the remaining works in a month’s time. “We have given possession in four out of five towers on the basis of deemed occupation certificate. The fifth tower (D6) is almost complete and we have applied for OC in February,” said Aeren. He admitted that there is no club house but promised to start work on it soon.
 
 
