The actor, Bollywood’s first single dad, wishes KJo well on his new journey as a father, and shares his own experience of being one 

 A mother, they say, is born when she conceives her baby in the womb. A father is born when he holds his little one for the first time in his arms. It’s a joy that neither can hide. However,   waited for an entire month before announcing to the world that he has graduated from being a father figure to a real father. Blame it on the pressures of being a celebrity. 
 
 Thanks to the progress in medical science and the concept of  , the filmmaker, who had expressed a desire to adopt a few years ago, is now daddy to little Roohi and Yash Johar. On the occasion, Bombay Times spoke to Tusshar, the first single daddy of Bollywood on what it means to be the sole parent and how it changes your life. Excerpts:
 
 
 (Cuts in) Isn’t that great news? It put a huge smile on my face. I’m very happy for him. I know what he must be feeling right now. Doubly so. It’s a different kind of happiness. It fills you with confidence. Being a single parent teaches you time management and in a matter of minutes, you become so selfless because your energies are suddenly not for you, they’re for your child. Karan’s babies are about a month old. It’s the most overwhelming feeling to have your children around you.
 
 
 Usually, as a couple, the woman experiences changes in her body and the man sees her belly grow gradually over nine months. That prepares him, in some way, for the life-changing experience that he’s about to have. But in cases like Karan’s and mine, we didn’t really go through that. I can speak for myself. One day, when Lakkshya came home, my life changed. The doctors sent me his pictures a few minutes after he was born. I couldn’t believe what I saw. I couldn’t believe that it was my child. A part of my heart was also scared because babies look swollen when they’re born. And I didn’t know that. When he was brought home, I saw the swelling had subsided a bit and that was a relief. 
 
 
 I’m working on changing the cycle of my days, once again. I wake up earlier than usual. I try finishing as much of my chores relating to Lakkshya as soon as I can. I ensure I balance my time between him, my family and my work. I’m preparing myself to be away for longer hours. It’s more mental than physical preparation. I’ll be shooting 'Golmaal Again' and probably, whenever I can, I’ll take him on the set. I can only be away from my son for that long. He’s the focus of my life.
 
 
 Yeah. When Lakkshya came home, I just put him in his cot and sat next to it for the entire night. It was as if I was guarding my greatest treasure. Today, when I have to step out, I have to plan my day much in advance so that his timings and schedule are not disturbed. I ensure that I do as much of his work as I can on my own, though I do have a dedicated help and my family to support me. My food, sleep, work-out and professional assignments revolve around Lakkshya’s routines. 
 
 
 I was apprehensive. I wasn’t too sure if my parents, who I thought were pretty conservative, would accept my decision. I told my mother (Shobha) first. To my surprise, she was completely for it. She stood by me and encouraged me. When she told my dad ( ), he was just as gung-ho. So was Ekta. I had immense emotional support at home, right from the time I started the procedures for surrogacy. They held me through it and even after Lakkshya was born. That is a must for anyone who decides to go for something like this. I’m glad Karan has Hiroo aunty by his side.
 
 
 He’s the best multi-tasker I know. He doesn’t need advice actually. He juggles so many things at once. And Karan will be an excellent father. He’s a terrific son and a great pal. He’s loving; he’s a giver and a complete family man, which is evident even in his movies. He cherishes and values relationships. After the relationship with his parents, this will be the closest to his heart. The only thing I can tell him out of my experience is that he should go with the flow. There are no formulas for being a father. Trust your paternal instincts. They’ll never misguide you.
 
 
 
 In his recently released biography, Karan Johar had expressed a desire to adopt a child or have a surrogate child. At the launch of the book, he had said, “I feel I have a nurturing quality in me, and I saw that most when I launched Alia (Bhatt), Varun (Dhawan) and Sidharth (Malhotra) in 'Student Of The Year'. Even after five years, I can’t let go off them. It doesn’t matter what they do; whether they are on screen or at an event. I find myself staring at what they are doing, what they are saying. All the directors and anyone who works at Dharma – they may only be a decade younger to me – but I feel very protective towards them and the emotion comes from a strong paternal instinct. I would like to take it forward. I don’t know what I’m going to do about it, but I feel like I would like to be a parent. I don’t know how it’s going to happen, but I do feel the need because I have plenty of love to offer and I’d like to take it forward. This feeling needs a release and requires a platform. And that platform could be by being a parent.”
 
 
 
 
