A man who went to the   with a complaint ended up with a case against himself for losing his cool at the  's office. The strange case is said to be unprecedented at the institution.

 Nagesh H, a complainant, had gone to the Upa Lokayukta, Justice  's office. When he found out that a case he had filed had been closed, he threw a fit, and sought to know why there weren't any   cameras in the Upa Lokayukta's office, a senior Lokayukta official told Bangalore Mirror.
 
 The Upa Lokayukta's office was hearing a case pertaining to an inquiry into a complaint Nagesh had filed against a circle inspector at Girinagar police station. The enquiry was being conducted by an additional registrar of enquiries and it had been closed on December 27. Nagesh had grievance over a police enquiry, the official explained.
 
 The Lokayutka institution had closed the case as it was not maintainable. But it had been closed with three options open for the complainant -he could approach the police official's seniors, move a lower court challenging the investigation, or move the High Court. But upon learning that his case had been closed, he lost his cool, the official said. “Mr Nagesh trespassed into Upa Lokayukta-1's office... and in front of registrar and in a high tone stating why CCTV cameras had not been installed in his office, abused in foul language obstructing him [from] performing his work (sic),“ the institution stated in its complaint to   police, seeking further action.
 
 A case has been registered under Section 447 (punishment for criminal trespass), Section 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace) and Section 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) against him.
 
 “He [Nagesh] was told that the case has been closed but he didn't listen. Later, he was asked to go, but he didn't.The fallout was this case with the police,“ the officer explained.
 
 This is very unusual as people who come to Lokayukta office go back with their grievance redressed, said another officer.
 
 “Action against a complainant by the Lokayukta office is a rarity and could be a first here. The enquiry is a quasi-judicial proceeding and the complainant or accused has to adhere to the norms as is done in any other court hall. The Upa Lokayukta can also initiate contempt proceedings as laid down under the Lokayukta Act,“ an officer of judiciary wing told Bangalore Mirror.
 
