GURUGRAM: A Gujarat-based businessman was on Thursday night held in captivity, thrashed and robbed of his two mobile phones and Rs 1.05 lakh cash in the city by a group of youths, who later dumped him on the highway.

 The accused called the businessman, Jagdish Dhan Ji Bhai (38), to Gurgaon on the pretext of selling pulses at lower rates to him but when he arrived in the city, they thrashed and robbed him. The victim managed to reach the Sector 29 police station on Friday morning and register a complaint.
 
 The accused robbed the victim of Rs 45,000 cash and withdrew more than Rs 60,000 by forcing him to reveal his ATM PIN and using his four ATM cards.
 
 Jagdish, who is from  , received a call from a person who identified himself as   a month ago, telling him he could buy pulses at lower rates from him. Seeing a business opportunity in the offer, Jagdish fell for the proposed deal. “Sharma told me that he was in the pulses business and had over 300 tonnes, which he would sell at low prices,” Jagdish said. The victim first came to Delhi on July 20 afternoon and from there reached Gurgaon by Metro. The accused sent an i20 car to pick him up from   in which two persons, including the driver were there. After an hour they reached a two-room house in Bhiwadi where three-four persons were waiting for him. When Jagdish asked them to show the pulses, they took him to a room where they held him in captivity and thrashed him.
 
  They took Rs 45,000 cash, four ATM cards and two mobile phones before leaving him by the roadside on the highway around 8pm, according to the plice.
 
 The police have lodged an FIR against the men, who are yet to be identified, under sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of IPC.
 
 “We are trying to identify the main accused who posed as Anil Sharma through his mobile number and also trying to identify the i20 car which was used in the crime through CCTV footage. The accused will be arrested soon,” said inspector Vikas Kaushik, SHO, Sector 29 police station.
 
 
