This Sunday morning, at an off-roading track on the  , there was a big gathering of off-roading enthusiasts in an event called Woman On Wheels. The initiative was started by city-based rally driver  , the winner of   (IRC Championships) in the women's category. Apart from a record number of first-time women participants, the highlight of the morning was participation from differently-abled enthusiasts from Punjab, who travelled to Gurgaon just to be a part of the event. 

 
  
   , one of the differently-abled participants at the event
 
 
  Talking about the need for getting more differently-abled people in motorsport, Bani said, "It is a risky sport, but we cannot exclude the differently-abled. They are entitled to participation in any kind of sport and my endeavour is to get them to understand motorsport and to get them involved. There are a few differently-abled drivers who take part in track races with modified cars. So things have begun gradually. Till we don't have more people – the differently-abled, the women – how will we grow the sport and bring it to international level?"
 
 
  
  
 
  Vikramjeet Sharma, an avid off-roader and owner of the track where the event took place, said, "This is essential for the sport to grow. We need people from all walks of life to come and get involved so that off-roading no longer remains an elite activity." 
 
  The participants had positive things to say about Gurgaon. Abhay Dogra, a differently-abled driver from Jalandhar, said, "People in Gurgaon are more accepting and friendly when it comes to the differently-abled. The notion that 'yeh kuch nahi kar sakta' is less here. The change that you want in society’s attitude towards us is more visible here."
 
  
  
 
 
  Even though the participants were a little hesitant initially, looking at the track's steep climbs and deep pits, once they sat in the cars and were given a run of the track by experienced drivers, all inhibitions went out of the window. Nuruddin, a differently-abled individual who was in an off-roading vehicle for the first time, could not stop raving about it. "It feels amazing. It was my first off-roading experience and I never thought one could drive like this, with jumps and climbs and in the water. It was a lot of fun," he said. 
 
  The differently-abled participants said that they would wish to drive off-roading vehicles some day but for that the vehicles will have to be modified. "Let's hope we can make that happen soon because this looks a lot of fun and I would want to try my hand at it," said Abhay. Over two dozen women took turns to drive their own vehicles around the track, and for the first time, many tried their hands at driving the off-roading gypsies as well. Vasudha, a Gurgaon resident who drove an off-roading vehicle for the first time, told us, "It was a thrilling experience. We rode alongside Bani and other experienced drivers first and then a few of us were given a chance to drive these cars on the track. I didn't try my hand at very difficult obstacles, but it’s a start for sure."
 
  
  
 
 
