NASHIK: The city traffic police held a meeting with the Nashik Municipal Corporation ( ) officials on Monday to discuss about the possibility of   of city buses at  . 

 ACP (traffic) Jayant Bajbale said the traffic police and NMC officials would jointly survey the junction and check where the   can be shifted so that the city buses that halt here do not cause traffic congestion on the busy Nashik-Pune Road.
 
 "Traffic congestion is a serious issue at   junction and the bus stops were among many things that are hampering the flow of traffic. After the survey, the pick-up shades would be relocated to some other area near Dwarka, where the possibility of traffic congestion can be reduced," he said.
 
 Officials of the traffic police department said Dwarka is an important junction in the city where vehicles from the Mumbai, Dhule, Pune and Nashik city meet, resulting into traffic congestion for most part of the day. Since there is a continuous rush of vehicles from Nashik city towards Dwarka circle, it also hampers the flow of traffic on the service roads along the highway.
 
 Apart from the rush of vehicles at this junction, the roads connecting Dwarka junction are also full of rickshaw and taxi stands, petty kiosks and halt points for private passenger vehicles. Meanwhile, the presence of the pick-up shades of the ST buses is one of the reasons for traffic congestion. After an ST bus halts at the Dwarka bus stop it ends up blocking half the road which leads to traffic congestion.
 
 Though the pick-up point at Dwarka towards the Nashik Road side is located at a distance from the junction, it still hampers the movement of traffic.
 
 Now, in a bid to streamline the traffic at the junction, the police and the civic administration have taken up measures in the past including reducing the size of the traffic island on various occasions, installing signals and later discontinuing them, making a pedestrian underpass, making one-way traffic on the twin service roads along the highway, among others.
 
 However, such things have been of little use in streamlining the traffic at this junction. The plan to shift the pick-up shades from Dwarka junction is yet another attempt.
 
