BENGALURU: The city founded by   was just over a hundred years old when the seed of a   was sown on its outskirts. Over the years, it witnessed Bengaluru’s transformation from a sleepy city nestled in the southern corner of Karnataka to a bustling metropolis.

 Situated 28km from the city near  , the  , aptly named   ( ) with its coiling leathery branches spread wide is an imposing sight to behold. What’s more, the tree, much like the city itself, is only growing bigger. However, Bengaluru might just not have enough space to house one of its oldest inhabitants in all its towering beauty.
 
 The horticulture department, which maintains the site of the tree, has sought five more acres to ensure unfettered growth of the tree. Although a proposal to this effect was sent to the state government two years ago, the horticulture department is yet to receive a response.
 
 Environmentalist Prakash L said the delay in granting land had led the horticulture department to prune some of the tree’s branches. “The road connecting Mysuru Road and Magadi Road runs right across Kethohalli, which is where the tree is located. Following complaints from motorists about the branches disturbing their commute, the department was forced to prune those branches.
 
 Moreover, land prices in the vicinity have shot up and layouts have mushroomed around the area in recent times. The government has to expedite the land acquisition process,” he said.
 
 Although the main trunk and root of the banyan tree contracted a disease a decade ago, the tree grows around 50 adventitious roots – roots that develop from a leaf or stem - ensuring its sustenance. A popular tourist attraction, Dodda Alada Mara draws hundreds of tourists every week, besides being home to a large number of birds.
 
 Senior assistant director of horticulture (Bengaluru Rural), Vijay Kumar told TOI that the land to accommodate the tree’s perpetually spreading branches would be acquired soon. “I took charge six months ago, and I have recently learnt that a committee has been formed for finalizing land acquisition for tree expansion. We will acquire private property contiguous with the site at the price fixed by the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board. We hope to complete the project soon. Meanwhile, we are ensuring the tree is adequately nourished,” he added.
 
