LUDHIANA/PATIALA: Ludhiana has again   in the state with as many as 139 students from the district out of total 350 students making it to the merit list of  , released by Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on Saturday.

 Jalandhar and Sangrur secured second place with 29 students each securing position on the merit list. As many as four students from the district bagged positions in top 10 in the state. Besides, Ludhiana students also secured second and third rank in sports category in the state.
 
 In the academics category, Amisha Arora (commerce) of R S Model Senior Secondary School stood first in the state with 98.44%. Prabhjot Joshi (humanities) of   School,  , Focal Point, stood second with 98.22%. Amisha and Prabhjot got 7th and 8th rank in the overall category (including sports category students).
 
 Kashish Bansal (97.78%) and Mahima Grover (97.78%), both of RS Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, shared the 10th rank in the state in the academics category.
 
 In the sports category, Nancy Goyal (humanities) of BCM Senior Secondary School, Jamalpur Colony, Focal Point, bagged second position in the state with 436 marks in academics and 14 marks in sports category out of total 450 marks. Shivam Kumar (medical stream) of R S Model Senior Secondary School bagged the third position in the state with 435 marks in academics and 15 marks from sports category. Both the students secured 450/450 marks in total.
 
 Nancy is a baseball player who stood 3rd in state-level competition. Shivam is a softball player and won state-level tournament.
 
 Husandeep hits bulls-eye with 100% marks
 
 Patiala: Husandeep Kaur, daughter of a farmer of   in Sangrur, has brought laurels to her district by being among the three students who had bagged the first position by securing 450 marks out of total 450 in the Class XII exams conducted by the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB). She appeared in Class XII non-medical stream.
 
 Husandeep is a state-level rifle shooter and had won a silver medal in the Punjab School Games held at Badal village Muktsar in October 2016. Her mother Harjinder Kaur is a housewife while her younger brother is student of class VII. “Dedication and hard work are keys of success undoubtedly, but one needs support of parents, guides and teachers who motivate and boost your morale,” said Husandeep.
 
 Visible proud of his daughter, Sukhchain Singh said, “She has brought pride to us besides her school, district and state. Her untiring efforts have paid finally.”
 
