"I first met   after   released back in 2006. I had just finished writing the first half of   then, and wanted to remake it in Telugu with him. After all these years, my dream of working with Mahesh has finally come true,” says director  , as he settles down to reveal what went into the making of Mahesh Babu’s much awaited spy-thriller Spyder. Excerpts. 

 
 
 The tussle between Mahesh (who plays a spy Shiva) and the antagonist played by SJ Suryah will be the highlight of the film. Normally, we are used to seeing the hero taking on a powerful villain, someone like a   and his army of goons, and overcoming them against all odds. But Spyder is designed like a cat-and-mouse game, in which Shiva is basically fighting an enemy who is omnipresent yet unseen. This is something totally new for the audience. 
 
 
 
 I’ve worked with many matinee idols and everyone has his own uniqueness. But Mahesh, I’d say, is an actor every director should do at least one film with. His dedication to work is absolute and he gives it his all. 
 
 For instance, we planned to rope in a dubbing artiste for Mahesh for the Tamil version initially. We tried five to six different voice artistes but weren’t satisfied with the output. So I asked Mahesh to give it a try and and 20 minutes into the dubbing, I was convinced that he should do the job himself. I heard that he normally take three to four days for dubbing his lines, but for the Tamil version of Spyder, he took 15 days. I was adamant on getting every nuance of the accent and language right and there was not even a whimper of protest from him. Irrespective of the performance of his films at the box-office, Mahesh will always be a huge Superstar in Telugu cinema. But after this film releases, I’m sure Mahesh’s BO standing in Kollywood would sky rocket and the filmmakers will urge Mahesh to release all his films in Tamil as well.
 
 
 The most challenging part of the shooting was the climax. It was a 15-day schedule involving 500 junior artistes, even a small error meant having to set up the frame again. We managed to pull it off successfully only because of Peter Haines (action choreographer). He’s already won the National Award, but I hope he wins it again for Spyder.
 Produced by NV Prasad and presented by Tagore Madhu under NVR Cinema LLP, Spyder is releasing worldwide on September 27.
 
 
