SURAT: The district administration and   (SUDA) have started the process to acquire 63 hectare of land sought by   (AAI) for the expansion of Surat airport. 

 Things started to move at a fast pace after Union minister of state for civil aviation   personally urged chief minister Vijay Rupani to allot additional land required for the expansion of the runway during his visit to the Diamond City on Sunday. 
 
 Sinha met Rupani on Sunday evening and urged him to speed up the allocation of additional land, which is required for the expansion of the runway from 2,905 metre to 3,810 metre. Presently, the AAI is engaged in the expansion of the existing runway from 2,250 metre to 2,905 metre. The work is likely to be completed by May 2017. Rupani has instructed district collector Mahendra Patel to speed up the land allotment, which is lingering for the last many years, sources said. 
 
 Navsari MP C R Paatil, who was present at the meeting between Sinha and Rupani, said, “The chief minister has readily accepted the demand for allocation of additional land for runway expansion. He has ordered the local administration to speed up the work for land acquisition from private owners, including government land in the possession of shrimp farmers in Bhimpore.” 
 
 AAI chairman had recently met chief secretary to   to discuss land allotment for Surat airport. 
 
 At present, the total airport land, which includes tarmac, runway and terminal is spread over in 317 hectare. If the state government allocates additional 63 hectare of land, the total airport area would then be around 380 hectare. 
 
 “We immediately require 63 hectare of additional land from Gujarat Government for expanding the runway from 2,905 metre to 3,810 metres in the second phase. With this expansion, Surat will be able to cater to full-fledged international flight operations, like Ahmedabad airport. We have submitted plan details to SUDA for land reservation and things have been set in motion,” said airport director Pramod Kumar Thakre.
 
