BAREILLY: Kaiser Ali, the father-in-law of  , told TOI on Thursday that Syed Imtiyaz  , who had impersonated Ishaq in court and claimed to be driving the Dr  's   that killed four persons in Ghaziabad on January 28, is hiding in Jaipur along with his family. Ishaq said he immediately informed the Indirapuram police about the development.
 
  Kaiser, a plumber, said, “I got a call from Qadri on Wednesday and he was crying on the phone as he had no money and food. He kept saying that a taxi driver in Satellite area of Bareilly offered him Rs 2,000 to do something due to which he landed in trouble. However, Qadri didn’t give me any details and claimed that he will share everything once he is back in Bareilly.”
  
  Qadri is a family friend of Ishaq’s in-laws. TOI had earlier reported that Qadri’s wife, before her disappearance from her Bareilly house, had confided to her landlady that her husband had been promised Rs 4,000 to surrender in court and had got half the money promised.
  
  “Qadri told me that they are hungry and sleeping on the roads of Jaipur. I asked him to come home and told him everything will be settled. He said he has no money to even afford a return trip. Though I volunteered to send some money to Jaipur if he gives me the address, he claimed that he has no idea about the address and that he will try to arrange funds on his own,” said Kaiser. He added, “If he comes back, the matter will be sorted. I do not know when he will be back and his number has been switched off since then.” 
  
  Kaiser's younger son, Haider Ali, 16, is also with the Qadri family. Haider and Qadri’s son are good friends. “I was out of station and later I realised that my son is with them. He is not carrying a phone and I have informed this to the Indirapuram police," Kaiser said.
  
  Station officer at Indirapuram, Sanat Kumar Mishra, said, “Ishaq has informed me that Qadri is hiding in Jaipur, and has provided the contact number from which he made a call to his kin. We will put the number on surveillance. It is not yet confirmed if Qadri is in Jaipur.”
  
  Qadri, using a photocopy of Ishaq’s driving licence, had surrendered at a Ghaziabad court on January 31, maintaining that he was the one at the wheels of Manish Rawat’s Audi. The court had granted him bail after which he quietly went back to his village in Bareilly. Hours before raids on his house by the local police on Sunday, Qadri disappeared once again.
