KOLHAPUR: The WhatsApp group formed by the Kolhapur division of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) and an IT professional working in Pune, facilitating direct bus services across the state has reached a new height in a few months’ time.

 MSRTC will start their bus service from Hinjewadi to Belgaum from January 25 on weekends to save time of these IT professionals. There are already 250 WhatsApp group members for Belgaum.
 
 After Pune to Kolhapur WhatsApp group was successful, the news went viral and buses on Nashik, Solapur, Aurangabad, Ichalkarangi and Miraj eventually started operating.
 
 Depot manager of Aajra bus depot, Shivraj Jadhav said, “The division has decided to run Hingewadi- Belgaum buses once a week. These buses are scheduled to leave on Friday afternoon as per the schedule of the employees. The bus will not take a halt in Kolhapur and Kagal. It will have stoppage at Nipani, Sankeshwar and Belgaum road.”
 
 Admin of Belgaum WhatsApp group, Samar Swami said, “There are other WhatsApp groups who are doing very well. The Times of India news created curiosity among IT professionals. Therefore, we planned to start direct bus service to Nipani, Sankeshwar and Belgaum. More than 250 youngsters, including girls from these areas, are working in Pune IT sector. Even if we plan to go home during weekends, we are depended on Kolhapur bound buses.”
 
 He added, “The new bus service will save our time. At present we have 250 members on our WhatsAppp group. It is a good start as more than half of the bus has already been booked for the weekend.”
 
 A resident of Belgaum,Radhika Kittur said, “The new bus service is welcome step people like me. One of the major concerns is security and the state transport bus is known for its security. The office-to-home concept is worth appreciation. I will be aware with whom I will be travel.Even private operators charge more money on weekends. The tickets in MSRTC are fixed.
 
 Another group member Jairam Bapat who works in Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) said, “I am very excited about the new service. Earlier I had to change buses from Kolhapur which was time consuming. The direct bus service to Belgaum will save time and the new concept will further add passengers.”
 
