CHENNAI: The Madras high court has censured director general of police (civil supplies)   for his stand against inducting woman inspectors of police in the civil supplies-CID (CSCID) wing, and cautioned him that it would be viewed by the court as gender discrimination in the future.

 “We direct that no impediment shall be created and women officers will be encouraged to opt for the CSCID. The mental process of excluding the women officers must be eschewed and we caution the officer not to approach a posting with such an intent. Any action to the contrary will be viewed as a gender discrimination issue against the officer concerned,” said the first bench of Chief Justice   and Justice M Sundar.
 
 The bench also ticked off the top official for having made a submission which was contrary to truth. In his initial explanation, the officer had informed the court that a government order dated October 19, 2005 sought to debar women officers in the wing. On Monday, however, a perusal of the GO revealed that there was no such bar on posting women in civil supplies CID.
 
 “We have perused the counter affidavit filed by K Radhakrishnan, IPS, which now clarifies that the GO dated October 19, 2005 does not refer to any debarment of women police officers from being posted in the civil supplies criminal investigation department (CSCID) so long as it meets the same guidelines which are meant for either men or women police officers. The affidavit now seeks to set up a case as if there was unwillingness or non-meeting of the norms by the women police officers as the reason for issuance of the letter dated September 22, 2016 and states that he has no personal reservations in taking women police inspectors.”
 
 It was on September 22, 2016 that Radhakrishnan wrote to authorities against induction of women officers in the civil supplies wing. The judges said: “We do believe that this appears to be really a re-think rather than a correct explanation for the letter dated September 22, 2016, which categorically stated, “as women inspectors have not been inducted into CSCID since its inception in 1964, the  , TN, Chennai has been requested to reconsider their postings to CSCID”.
 
 Though a PIL had been filed against the letter and rejection of women in the wing, the first bench closed it and, instead, treated it as a suo motu PIL proceedings initiated by the court itself.
 
 
