Four in 10 people caught in Mumbai for   in 2016 claimed they did not have a  .   say that in all likelihood such motorists lied as they didn't want to surrender their licence for three months and then go through the hassle of renewing it.

 As per the traffic police's report on drunk driving for 2016, in all 20,768 people were caught for the offence, of whom 8,031 were found without a driving licence. As many as 122 of the total were first offenders and 196 second offenders. While Rs 429.3 lakh was realised as fine for drunk driving, the licences of 3,826 (of the 12,737 on whom licences were found) caught for drunk driving were suspended. (Motorists include two-wheeler riders as well).
 
 The maximum drunk driving cases, 5,981, were reported from western Mumbai, followed by northern areas (5,475). The eastern and central eastern areas were almost neck-and-neck, with 3,098 and 3,023 cases, followed by the central and southern areas (2,221 and 970 cases).
 
 Joint commissioner of police (traffic)   said that in some cases people intentionally do not show their licence, saying they are not carrying it. “If a person is found without a licence, additional charges are applied along with the drunk driving charge,“ he said, adding that nevertheless people prefer this route to licence suspension.
 
 Commenting on the law and investigative practices, IPS officer-turned lawyer YP Singh said, “There has to be a policy on prosecution since in most traffic offence cases, people are let off without imprisonment and merely by payment of a fine. This does not serve as a deterrence. Long or short, jail time can be an effective solution to the problem.“
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 Bill to amend the central Motor Vehicles Act and introduce hefty fines for driving without a licence or drunk driving needs to be passed quickly.Unless fines for traffic offences are increased and rationalised, errant motorists will keep finding ways of hoodwinking the law. The penalty for not carrying a licence is much less than the penalty for drunkdriving, which also carries a three-month suspension of the document. No wonder a high proportion of motorists caught for drunk driving are `found' driving without a licence.
 
