KOLKATA:   has dusted off its age-old apprehension of getting clicked and is set to embrace   like never before. It will soon have its own Instagram account, much like more famous counterparts including The Louvre, Philadelphia Museum of Art, Smithsonian, Tate and MoMA. 

 Besides, in another six months it will have an app that can be downloaded by visitors to act as an audio-visual guide for a tour of the galleries. The free Wi-Fi that is already available in the garden area, will be made available inside the museum too. More importantly, non-flash photography will be allowed inside the museum soon.
 
 The opposition to photography inside the museum was on many counts. It was felt the intense light of camera flashes might damage the paintings. Copyright violation was yet another worry. Then there were those who felt photography inside the museum would compromise the viewing experience and people would get more busy taking selfies rather than appreciating the works or art. 
 
 “Ten years back, there was apprehension that circulation of digital images of artefacts and paintings kept inside might bring down footfall,” said Jayanta Sengupta, curator of   Memorial. But in reality, dissemination has only prompted more viewers to actually visit museums and galleries and see them in person, he pointed out. Currently, the Indian Museum allows photography on its premises. The camera charges that used to be levied earlier have been scrapped. 
 
 “As of now, photography isn’t allowed inside the   museum. But if people circulate images taken inside the Victoria, we feel it might help in our branding. The proposal to allow non-flash photography has been prepared. We are awaiting a board meeting to get things started,” Sengupta said.
 
 The last board meeting was held in 2015 and another one is expected to be held within the next three months, said Sengupta. The governor is the chairman of the board, which has the chief justice of the Calcutta high court and the mayor as ex-officio members. 
 
 Once the board nod comes through, a whole new world will open up for the smartphone-happy visitor. The authorities expect Queen Victoria’s piano and the thrones of the Bengal nawabs to become hot spots for the click-happy brigade. 
 
 The app-based audio-video guide also has museum buffs excited. Most importantly, it will come free. “Approval has already been sought to develop the app with the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing in Pune. If things go as per schedule, we should be able to start the process in another six months,” Sengupta said.
 
 In the meantime, work is on in full swing to have a museum gift shop up and running. At present, Victoria has just a counter for its publications. Like other museums across the world, this shop will sell memorabilia including fridge magnets, umbrella, T-shirts, coasters and prints of paintings. The store will be near the entrance close to its marble staircase.
 
 
