KOLKATA: Chartered accountant  , who has been living in Kolkata for over 60 years, often wanted to watch films in his mother tongue —   — at a theatre but such an opportunity came by few and far between. Finally, his wish is likely to be fulfilled at the first   being hosted at Nandan 3 from Friday.

 Kolkata is now home to 200-odd Kannadiga families. “In the 50s and 60s, there were many multinational companies in Kolkata and a lot of people from our community settled down here. But now, most families are here for two or three years and work primarily in the banking sector,” said Seetharama, managing trustee of   in Kolkata. Like Seetharama, all these families are excited about the festival, being organized under Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy, Karnataka department of information and public relations, in collaboration with Federation of Film Societies of India. 
 
 Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy registrar H B Dinesh said they came up with the idea when he met minister   at the Bengali film festival in Bangalore last month. Basu inaugurated the four-day Kannada film festival, which is hosting acclaimed director Girish Kasaravalli and music director Hamsalekha. Kasaravalli told TOI, “There is usually a lot of hype around commercial films. But people don’t realise good cinema happens in other languages as well.” Apart from his daughter Ananya’s ‘Harikatha Prasanga’, he is looking forward to the screening of ‘U Turn’ and ‘Railway Children’ among others.
 
 Homemaker Veena Deshpande, who shifted from Hubbali to Kolkata 12 years ago, wishes to meet Kasaravalli. “He comes from my hometown. I want to watch his daughter’s film on Saturday,” she said, hoping not to miss any of the seven films being screened. “Kannada commercial movies are overshadowed by big-budget Telegu and Tamil films. But at the national awards, Kannada movies rule. Bengalis must watch our movies.” Equally excited is insurance consultant Rakesh Rao: “I’ve been living in Kolkata for 25 years and my parents 45 years. We don’t get a chance to watch Kannada films in theatres. We’ve been exchanging the festival information on our WhatsApp group, Kolkata Kannada Sanga.” 
 
 On behalf of Federation of Film Societies of India, Premendra Mazumder said, “We plan to showcase the gems of other Indian languages all over India.”
 
