GHAZIABAD: At several socieities in  , there are lifts for residents — and, there are lifts for domestic help. 

 TOI visited many socieities in the area, and saw first-hand this strange  . Residents said that management of their societies barred maids and other domestic help from using regular lifts and asked them to use the service lifts instead. They said the management took the step after residents asked them to.
 
 Vikas Kamboj, a resident of Mahagun Mascot in Crossings Republik, told TOI that a tower named Majestic was not letting maids take the regular lift. “We also tried protesting against the step but to no avail. It is just like the discrimination carried out by British against Indians,” added Vikas.
 
 Several maids, who work in the area, said they felt discriminated against and were often scolded by security guards posted in the buildings if they entered the lifts meant for residents and guests. They named societies like Supertech Livingston, Ajnara Gen X, Paramount Symphony, Magagun Mascot among others. “We normally stay away from complaining and don’t want to invite unnecessary trouble. On several occasions, we were made to wait till the residents reached their respective floors,” said Neha, a maid. When asked who made such rules, she said she asked guards the same question and they said that the rules were made by residents only. “It used to happen with me too when I used to work in Paramount Symphony. It has stopped ever since I started working in Panchsheel,” said Gulari, a domestic help.
 
 Similar views were shared by  , a tailor, who takes orders from societies. “They have treated poor people very badly. We have stopped feeling surprised about it now,” he said.
 
 Describing it as a violation of a person’s right,  , a resident of Ajnara Gen X, said such acts happened often with her maid. “Next time someone from the society says such things to my maid, I am going to identify them and file police complaints for discrimination,” she added.
 
 Asked about the origin of this practice, the maintenance manager of Mahagun Mascot, a residential society in Crossing Republik township, said, “This rule was basically started a year ago, but it was started only to prevent any damage to the lift used by residents because milkmen and other vendors travel with containers which can potentially harm the elevators.”
 
 Aasked about the metal plates mounted inside the lifts specifying who can take the lift, he said, “We have not discouraged maids to use the regular lifts and the metal plates only talk about vendors being denied access.” But, later, he said, “Majestic Tower is the only tower which has three lifts, with one separate lift for maids and vendors. All the other towers have just two lifts. This tower contains 100 flats and over 70 families live in it. It was sold to its occupants by presenting it as a luxury tower.”
 
 Sudhanshu Gupta, the RWA president of Mahagun Mascot, said, “Well, this practice only takes place in the Majestic Tower of the society and has been started by the residents of the same.”
 
 Asked about the RWA’s consent being a part of this practice, he said, “The RWA has not approved any such act of discrimination against any human being, but the occupants of Majestic Towers have gone against us and have been doing this for the last one year.”
 
 The maintenance manager of   said there was no such practice and denied knowledge of any such rule in the society. However, Arun Agnihotri, a security guard posted in one of the towers of the society, said such rules were followed.
 
 A Facebook post shared by one of the residents discouraging this practice also garnered mass attention, with people appealing to abolish it. One of the comments read, “This is why this country will never make progress. Others will discriminate against us tomorrow, because we discriminate against the people of our own kind today.”
 
 
