Chennai: When Union Minister for External Affairs Sushma Swaraj tweeted about Amazon Canada’s abuse of the Indian national flag, it threw open the floodgates as to legal liability of third-party service providers on internet marketplaces.

 On January 11, the Union Minister warned Amazon Canada for allowing sale of Indian tricolour ondoor mats, and said, “Amazon must withdraw all products insulting our national flag immediately.”
 
 This resulted in her twitter handle being flooded with requests that shoes, sneakers, chappals, keychains, phonecases — hosted on Amazon and Zazzle be taken down. The issue surfaced again, after Economic Affairs secretary Shaktikanta Das directed salvos at Amazon on Sunday night. 
 
 While Amazon has taken down some products, it is legally not obliged to do so say lawyers. “We are talking about a third-party seller on Amazon Canada offering doormats. And you must remember they were offering doormats with flags of nearly 20 countries, including Canada's national flag - so it is obvious the intention was not to disrespect the Indian flag. Then again foreigners do not view the feet/doormats with our association of disrespect and uncleaniness,” said N Aravind, a lawyer, who said that “legally it is not enforceable to stop Amazon Canada's third-party sellers. That Amazon chose to heed requests was purely out of goodwill,” he added. 
 
 There are others like former additional solicitor general P Wilson, who felt outraged that the Indian flag could be debased in this fashion. “India is a global power and companies, who do business here, cannot choose to ignore our cultural values,” he said. 
 
 With twitterati picking up on Amazon offering a pair of slipper with Mahatma Gandhi's photo, Anand Bhushan, partner at Amarchand Mangaldas law firm, believes that “cultural issues need to be addressed first”. “We need to examine if an offense or insult was intended or it was just a case of cultural misunderstanding. Even if enforecable under the Information Technology Act, 2000, marketplaces are categorised as intermediaries. As such intermediaries may not be liable and may seek protection under section 79,” he said. “Softer approach is warranted. And we shouldn’t be unduly aggressive,” he added..
 
 Amazon did not respond to emails requesting comment.
 
 Sentiments that Shaktikanta Das might not concur with. On Sunday, the secretary had tweeted that, “Amazon,better behave. Desist from being flippant about Indian symbols & icons. Indifference will be at your own peril.”
 
 A tweet, which opened another can of worms, as tweeters including serial investor Mahesh Murthy questioned sale of goods with the US Flag in India by Flipkart. With many tweeters pointing out that this could be in violation of the US Flag Code, third-party usage of images on both sides of the Atlantic comes into question.
 
 Lawyer Bhushan cites the landmark case of Union Of India vs Naveen Jindal in 2004, which challenged restrictions and liberalised use of the national flag. “In various international sports or cultural events, people identify themselves with their country by displacing the national flag. It is an expression of pride,” observed the court. “The restrictions imposed on the use of the National Flag should be commensurate with the international practices being adopted by various democratic countries and the government should not impose any restriction, which distances people from the National Flag,” said the court.
 
 In today’s world of globalised commerce and trade, Bushan said, “one needs to be careful in the extraterritorial application of India's domestic laws. We should perhaps distinguish between merchandise sold on Indian websites vis-à-vis what is sold in Nother American or European market places.” Amarchand Mangaldas law firm plays an advisory role to e-commerce giant Amazon. 
 
 
