KOLHAPUR: The city will soon have a police commissionerate along with four other cities in the state.

 A proposal in this regard has been sent to the state government for approval, DGP   said on Tuesday.
 
 Mathur, who was in city to take a review of the law and order in the   also said, “We have received four proposals from various parts of the state including   to set up a police commissionerate and have sent the same to the state government for approval. We are positive about these proposals and expect Kolhapur to get a police commissionerate soon.”
 
 There is an urgent need for a police commissionerate considering the rise in criminal activities in the district. As per the proposal sent by the SP office, Kolhapur and   will be marked as urban areas for by the commissioner’s office. 
 
 The rest of the district will come under the Kolhapur Rural jurisdiction. Once the police commissionerate is set up, two posts of senior inspectors will be created and over 1,000 additional police officers will be added to the existing staff.
 
 “The rise in population, increase in migration and industrial development has lead to an increase in criminal activities in the district along with other organised crimes. Setting up a police commissionerate in the district is one of the best options to tackle such issues and bring the crime rate under control,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Speaking about the recent incident of multiple thefts that came to light, the officer said that Rs 1,400 crore cash of a Kolhapur-based builder was stolen from his office in   last year and it was found that seven police officials were involved in the incident. He said, “The incident is blot on the police department and we will ensure that the culprits are convicted. The criminal investigation department (CID) currently investigating the case and we have issued directions to the concerned officials to do a thorough investigation and find out if other culprits of the police force are involved in it.”
 
 When questioned about the progress in the Pansare murder case, he said, “We are doing our best to investigate the case and our teams are trying to find the culprits involved in the crime. The accused are already absconding from last five to six years but we are trying to find out their whereabouts.”
 
