KOLKATA: After nine years of record footfall and mega business,   — the largest shopping destination in eastern India and one of India's largest malls — is shutting down for renovation.

 The closure for at least four months starting February 1 will not only affect shoppers in south Kolkata, but leave several thousand children, teens, youths and couples distraught at the temporary loss of a favourite hangout zone. The mall attracts 70,000-80,000 people on weekdays and1.7 lakh-2 lakh people on weekends.
 
 While South City Projects will spend Rs 50 crore on the upgrade, the loss in turnover from the closure is expected to be around Rs 350 crore in sales and another Rs 100 crore in store interiors that will be wasted and have to be remade. But preceding the closure will be a stock clearance sale with discounts of up to 70% that is likely to attract shoppers from not only Kolkata but also from neighbouring states and even Bangladesh.
 
 According to South City Mall VP and COO  , the shutdown was on the cards but hastened by   that has affected businesses countrywide. “We were toying with the idea when it (demonetisation) happened and made a tough decision more palatable to our partner retailers,“ he said. A short-circuit fire in December sealed the matter. Sources said the management plans to add a floor and shift the food court there while creating additional retail space of 75,000 sqft-80,000 sqft, where a fifth anchor -either Zara or H&M -will be accommodated.
 
 A section of the mall will continue to function, offering regulars a limited mix of retail and entertainment options. But the atrium and food court -the mall's hot spots — will be cordoned off. Of the138 stores and restaurants, only the anchor stores and two restaurants will stay open. The fact that nearly all the standalone stores had completed the nine-year lease term helped the mall management push through the closure.
 
 The proposed refurbishment will comprise three aspects: comfort, safety and greenery . In the first, restrooms will become premium and corridors will get a new ceiling. In the second, the entire electrical wiring will be overhauled and new-generation CCTV cameras, smoke detectors, heat detectors and motion sensors installed. The security check-points at the entrance will be upgraded. In the third, the entire illumination will use LED, water will be recycled and a more efficient HVAC (heating, ventilation and airconditioning) system will replace the current one.
 
 “We expect to save 15-20% electricity and 40% water after the upgrade. Dual plumbing lines will be installed to re-use water in flushes. The AC will also be modernised,“ said Bagri.
 
 When the mall opens in May or later, the management expects to woo back most of the retailers that are currently there. However, industry analysts said it was unclear what would happen after a four-month shutdown as something like this is unprecedented. Lallit Marda, one of the biggest retailers at South City with six stores -Tommy Hilfiger, Benetton, Pepe, AND, Tommy Kids and Benetton Kids -said the shutdown poses challenges and losses on multiple fronts including redundant furniture and staff salaries but added that retailers had no other option as the mall needed an upgrade to compete with Quest. “South City has been losing footfalls and business. The upgrade will help it make a comeback,“ he said.
 
 He acknowledged that upgrades usually happen in a phased manner. But South City Mall management opted for the unusual step to ensure that safety of customers and progress of work did not get compromised.
 
 “All the major cable and pipelines running across the roof of vanilla stores are concealed by false ceiling.We are not sure how much of it has been damaged by rhodents and other factors in nine years. We needed a hardware as well as a technology upgrade for the mall to operate without problems for another six-seven years,“ added Bagri.
 
