CHENNAI: The north may be prone to earthquakes because of the continuous movements of tectonic plates, but did you know that fault lines in the south that can spell disaster for the holy temple town of Tirupati? An   team is tracking fault lines beneath the Tirumala hills -and places in   such as Palar and Tarangambadi (Tranquebar) -where tectonic plates threaten to collide and cause future earthquakes.

 While an earthquake in Tirupati, one of the holiest pilgrimage sites, could be disastrous because of the large number of visitors to the spot through the year, a temblor near Tarangambadi or Palar could devastate settlements within a radius of 200km, including Chennai.
 
 The seismic source locations have been mapped as part of a seismic hazard assessment in south India by IIT, Roorkee for the Central Water Commission.Earthquake engineers also have to give earthquake-resistant designs to build critical sites like dams and power plants as part of the project. A website, which will be launched in early 2018, will have updated seismic hazard assessment for south India.
 
 Professor M L Sharma said after the 6.2 magnitude Latur earthquake, one of the deadliest in  , in 1993, and the quake at Jabalpur in   in 1997 measuring 5.8 on the seismic scale, there has been a perception that an earthquake with a magni tude of 6.5 can hit anywhere in south India. "If that happens, it will be similar to the   quake in UP (1999, 6.8 magnitude) or Uttarkashi (1991, 6.8 magnitude)," he said. "If an earthquake of such magnitude occurs, it may affect cities and towns up to a 100km radius," Sharma said.
 
 Sharma said a fault is a fracture in the earth's crust where rocks on either side of it are displaced past each other.These cracks can be of any size. Identify ing these faults is key to assess seismic hazard and characterise the zones. Seismic hazard is a probability that an earthquake will occur in a specific geographic area.
 
 Sharma said several parameters like the type of the source, its potential to generate strong ground motions, the amount of energy it can produce and amplify. "The perception is that a 6.5 magnitude can occur anywhere in south India, so we assign that value to a fault and calculate if that kind of motion can be expected in a city," he said. "The softer the soil, the greater the amplification in ground motion."
 
 Geological Survey of India has published seismic hazard on a seismotectonic atlas and BIS has grouped the country into four seismic zones, denoting the possibility of a quake by intensity. Tamil Nadu is under seismic zone two and three.
 
 IIT   has developed an early earthquake warning system in Garhwal and is working to install sensors across major cities in north India. The sensors can give provide early indication of an earthquake and help the authorities save lives before it strikes.
 
