RANCHI: It was Test cricket at its best as Australian batsmen defied India's lethal spin duo of R Ashwin and   on a worn-out fifth day surface at the JSCA International Stadium to force a draw in the third Test here on Monday.

 The Australians, who were bundled out in 35.4 overs in their second innings in Bengaluru, were faced with the task of wiping out a 152-run first-innings deficit and holding out for a little over three sessions to share the honours with the hosts, achieved their objective with aplomb.
 
 On Monday evening, Australian coach   had urged his wards to draw inspiration from  's epic 11-hour knock.   (53) and Peter   (72 not out) did pay heed as they batted together for nearly four hours, displaying admirable skill and temperament amid intense pressure. Their 124-run association for the fifth wicket snuffed out India's hopes of pulling off a Chennai-like win -achieved earlier in the season against England.
 
 It was all the more creditable for the Aussies because they looked down and out after having been reduced to 634 in the first session following the dismissal of their talismanic captain Steve Smith. But it was a mature innings by young Handscomb, who hardly put a foot wrong during his four hour 20-minute knock in course of which he faced 200 deliveries, which blunted the fight by the Indians.
 
 Once Australia made up the first-innings deficit in 71.3 overs the match was over as a contest. There was some excitement in store as Marsh and   fell in the fifth and eighth mandatory overs with Australia ahead only by 38 runs, but that was not enough to change script dramatically. Matthew Wade (9) was at the crease when the match was called off by mutual consent at the end of the 13th mandatory over. Australia ended up with 2046 in 100 overs in the second essay.
 
 Jadeja, who had stuck a double blow on fourth evening by pegging back opener David Warner and nightwatchman Nathan Lyon's stumps, once again, made the vital breakthrough. The left-arm spinner got one to turn sharply from the rough outside the righthander's leg stump to beat Smith's semi-outstretched pad and knock down the off-stump.
 
 Smith, who batted magnificently in the first essay, remaining unbeaten on 178, and was looking good even in the second innings, simply stood paralysed and watched the ball crash into his stumps without making any effort to cover for the turn with his pad or bat. The dismissal, coming soon after pace spearhead Ishant Shar ma had trapped Matt Renshaw leg-before wicket with sharp in-cutter, added fresh impetus to India's victory charge.
 
 It, however, proved to be a false dawn for the hosts, whose agg ressive body language didn't quite match their overall gameplan. Captain's  's tactics of bowling his pacers from one end and Jadeja on the other, certainly wasn't one of his best moves. At best, it curtailed the flow of runs as Ishant and Umesh Yadav largely bowled a line well outside the off-stump which suited the Australian batsmen.
 
 Kohli's tactics also kept Ashwin - his No.1 match-winner - out of the game. Of the 28.4 overs sent down by the Indian bowlers in the morning session, Ashiwn got to bowl only one -the 35th. By the time he was pressed into service full-time after the lunch break, Marsh and Handscomb were well set. The top-notch off-spinner, however, didn't do himself, or his team, any justice by failing to hit the worn out spots on the pitch. Unlike Jadeja, who maintained probing line right through the match, Ashwin was guilty of bowling either too full or too short.
 
 Kohli also messed up with the DRS in his eagerness to force victory. All three Indian reviews were struck down to leave the bowlers frustrated.
 
 The consolation for India was the Man-of-the Match for Pujara, whose 202 stood out like a beacon in the overall context. 
 
