VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakha   (VIMS) will not be privatised, but would run as an autonomous institute, new   director Dr CV Rao said, adding that there have been speculations regarding its privatisation when the government had invited tenders to identify consultant services, but it was for drawing up a Detailed Project Report (DPR) on how to run the institute.

 Addressing the media here on Saturday, Dr Rao, who took charge on December 9, said recently, there was a meeting of the VIMS governing body and the government in principle accepted the proposal of making VIMS a full-fledged autonomous institute just like NIMS in Hyderabad. “There are quite a number of advantages of developing VIMS as an autonomous health institute in a phased manner. Autonomy will give VIMS its own governing body and it can generate its own funds. The institute can lay down a policy to be economically sustainable. It would charge money from those who can afford and provide free service to the poor. But even then, the treatment charges including lab tests would be far less than corporate hospitals - at least at 50 - 60 % less cost,” averred the director.
 
 Dr Rao also listed out the action plans that he intends to complete by the end of the financial year in March 2017. These include 24/7 trauma care services, making out-patient consultation and in patient services available for general medicine, general surgery, gynaecology, orthopaedics, paediatrics, neurology, neurosurgery, nephrology, urology, endocrinology, gastroenterology and plastic surgery. NTR Vaidya Seva facilities are to be provided for general medicine, general surgery, orthopaedics, neurology, neurosurgery, nephrology, urology, gastroenterology, plastic surgery, genito-urinary surgeries and critical care. Further, obstetrics services such as deliveries and maternity health services would be provided shortly. Blood storage facilities too would be provided soon in collaboration with King   (KGH). Efforts are on to bring dialysis facility to VIMS. In house laboratory and radiology facilities are available. Efforts are also on to install latest CT scan facilities.
 
 The director said they are planning to provide various services to the public, especially from areas surrounding VIMS such as Madhurawada, Arilova and Anandapuram so that patients don’t have to travel all the way to KGH and Victoria Government Hospital. These quality healthcare services are to commence in a phased manner from March 2017. “We have 15 operation theatres and equipped ICU. We however require certain equipment for various departments including the expensive CT scan machine to cater to accident or trauma cases. We are going to get more specialist doctors on deputation from other hospitals as well and are outsourcing the paramedical, technical and Class IV staff. The hospital has a capacity for 500 beds though at present 100 beds are ready. There are around five-six paramedic staff but the requirement is 25 while we need around 35 doctors but our current strength of doctors is 20. Two ambulances have been donated by the local MP which will start operating soon. Overall, more manpower and expertise is required and maintenance of the equipment is also a matter of concern,” Dr Rao said.
 
 Regarding funds, he said already Rs 115 crore has been spent on developing VIMS including Rs 30 crore for equipment. “The government is giving some grant. But we have to develop our own resources. If the government gives another Rs 50 crore, we can launch all the planned services at one go. Since, VIMS in built on 100-acre land and is quite spacious, in the distant future, there are plans to start a medical college, a nursing college, a research institute and also a building for patients’ attendants,” Dr Rao added.
 
 
