BENGALURU: Business park developer   has struck a $200 million (Rs 1,300 crore) deal to buy land assets and development rights for multi-million sq ft office space project from cross-town rival   in the city's tech corridor.

 The acquisition, backed by  , is set to conclude early this week giving RMZ ownership of 30 acre land to expand RMZ Ecoworld Park into the largest work destination in Bengaluru.
 
 RMZ will invest further $400 million to build the 5.5 million sq ft, taking the total investment to over $600 million, or around Rs 4,000 crore, as limited supply and continuing robust demand for Grade-A office space has shrunk the vacancy levels in the city to record lows. The adjoining asset buy will see RMZ Ecoworld on the outer-ring road being expanded from 8 million to 13.5 million sq ft, with number of workstations going up from 80,000 to 1.3 lakh. 
 
 “We are buying the asset along with complete FSI ( ) approvals for development, valuing it at around Rs 2,000sqft. This will be funded through internal accruals and support from our partner QIA," Manoj Menda, corporate chairman, RMZ Corp told TOI. 
 
 The agreement represents our commitment to expand and diversify the office space portfolio in Bengaluru," Menda added. Adarsh is selling two land parcels of 15 acre each, one of which was supposed to house Bengaluru's second Shangri-La hotel.
 
 Menda is triggering the third commercial real estate M&A deal worth between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion in the past one year.Last month, RMZ picked up 50% stake in Hyderabad-based MyHome Industries Ltd's project to build 10 million sqft office space worth $1 billion. It had earlier acquired Equinox Business Park in Mumbai from the Ruias of Essar for more than $400 million. RMZ has a portfolio of 20 million sq ft spread across Bengaluru, Mumbai Chennai and National Capital Region, and plans to expand it to 60 million sqft by 2020.
 
 Bengaluru continues to remain one of the most steady office markets in the country. It accounted for about 27%, or 11.6 million square feet, of gross absorption in 2016, the highest in the country. But such high demand has meant that developers have been unable to come up with requisite supplies, resulting in acute low vacancies of under 5%. The national average in commercial real estate vacancy is about 13%.
 
 JLL forecasts a demand of 8 million sq ft of office space in Bengaluru this year against a vacant stock of 4 million. Bengaluru has a total office stock of 96.7 million sq ft with expected supply of 22.5 million sq ft between the second quarter of 2016 and the fourth quarter of 2019, according to a Brookfield Financial report.
 
