AHMEDABAD: Following the row over   high court’s senior judge Jayant Patel’s transfer and subsequent resignation, the president of Gujarat High Court Advocates’ Association (GHAA) has appealed to “pro-government” judges to protect rights of the common man.

  GHAA president, advocate Asim Pandya, who led the Bar to strike a day’s work and has planned to file a petition in the   to challenge the collegium’s decision to transfer Justice Patel, has stated in his open letter to pro-government judges, “Courts exist to protect rights of common man, not to protect the State… Mighty government or sovereign is able to protect its own interest and it does not deserve any further protection from the court of law. The superior courts are in fact created to afford protection to citizens against high-handedness of the government.”
 
 The GHAA president has written, “For last few years, we have seen the image of the judiciary reaching its lowest point in the eye of the common men. Before two decades it was beyond anyone’s comprehension that our judges of the higher judiciary could be corrupt or branded as corrupt.”
 
 Since people’s trust in the institution of judiciary is gradually going down, the time has come to introspect and revisit the working of judiciary and the entire system of transfer/appointment/elevation of judges to high court or the SC, the letter said.
 
 Advocate Pandya claimed that judges having proximity or close affinity to the ruling party are paid premium in form of promotion. “This has not happened only during the tenure of the current ruling party, but it had also happened during the tenure of the Congress-led government. The judges who maintained independence and firmly protected the fundamental rights of the citizens were ignored and bypassed in the matter of their elevations (promotions),” he wrote. The letter also mentions how the view of judiciary changed in the matters of fake encounters with the change of power in the Centre. The letter urges the judges “having pro-government philosophy to shun such a mind-set and uphold the Constitution of India without fear or favour or ill-will, in consonance with the oath taken by them at the time of entering the office”.
 
 
