AJMER: The   of   (NWR) has proved its excellence continuously. Recently, it   in different sectors including best   as best division shield. There has been constant celebration in different sections of the  

 This is the first time when Ajmer division showed such results and won a large number of shields in the entire NWR. The general manager of North Western Railway, Anil Singhal, awarded these shields.
 
 The Ajmer division worked hard in the sectors of commercial sector, electrification, engineering, health and medical, signals and also in the field of environment. The most important task in front of railways was the double rail lines work between Marwar and Sojat and to rebuild 28 bridges on this route. “As this route is a busy route linking the west with central India therefore needed proper guidance so that traffic remained undisturbed,” said an official.
 
 Another work of engineering for Ajmer division that was awarded was increasing the speed from 100 kilometres per hour to 110 kilometres in Chittorgarh-Udaipur region. The container depot was also started at Kemli recently to increase business for railways.
 
 “During Urs we earned Rs 1,12,00,000 at PRS counter and managed 70,333 passengers with special management and arrangements,” said Puneet Chawla, divisional railway manager (DRM). He said for best working in different sectors about 41 officials and employees were also honoured by the general manager of NWR.
 
 The DRM said that this year Ajmer division got 3.88 percent more revenue which is Rs 425.24 crore in passenger services. “Even the facilities were increased the first time only in Ajmer such as e-token booking and e-booking and opening a food plaza at railway station and wheelchair facilities to veterans,” added Chawla.
 
 Railways showed innovation in running staff rooms at Udaipur and yoga rooms for the staff and also libraries are added to this block. Importance is given to environment and there are gardens on both sides of this block in Udaipur. Ajmer division also led in ‘clean my coach App’ with punctuality in cleanliness and improving services. The division hospital started knee replacement and other operations for the railway staff.
 
 The most important working that brought change in railways functioning was improvement in signal functioning, “This brought 11 percent improvement in signal failure and improved 30 percent punctuality in telecommunication and also provided high speed in the hilly region of Ajmer-Udaipur. There is also terminal system started between Ajmer-Abu Road,” added Chawla.
 
 
