Menaka Rai, a 29-year-old banking professional, says, “The first time I met Uday was when I was in Class Eight. He was a tall, dark and brooding guy, who immediately managed to win over my heart. We would spend a lot of time together, chatting over the phone and meeting during recess hours. Over time, I started harbouring feelings for him but he pretended as if he didn’t know about it at all and continued his friendship with me. Batchmates started teasing us as a couple and that didn’t seem to bother him much. It was much later, that I learnt from him that though he liked me a lot, he couldn’t open up emotionally. This was the first for me. The next guy I met was in college. We were good friends and even dated briefly, during which he would tell me that emotions don’t come to him easily. It would scare me and I would feel like running away from the relationship, but something was constantly holding me back. I am now married to an IT professional and though our marriage is smooth, he doesn’t seem to bother much about me. I now feel I was always attracted to men who were there physically but not emotionally.” Women, who are attracted to such type of men, find themselves in   where the guy will date the girl but won’t commit or settle down, is already married, is in another relationship or has a habit of being unfaithful.
  says, “Women, who fall for such men, feel that since they’ve waited for so long for the unavailable man to come around that the thought of leaving without any payoff is unthinkable for them.”
 However, if you are in love or find yourself falling in love with such a man, fret not. We suggest some ways you can deal or move out of this pattern.
 
 
 
 Women don’t have to ideally change anything about them. They just need to switch their focus. Ansari adds, “Women should stop trying too hard to win their partner’s affection and instead think about their own emotional needs. Talk to the guy straight out and let him know that if he is planning on keeping you hanging, you won’t give in to that sort of a relationship. Relationships should be based on a give and take funda.”
 
 
 
 This is another reason why women tend to get hurt when they have fallen for an emotionally unavailable guy. You need to stand up against him when need be. Relationship counsellor Sauleha Shaikh explains, “He might be the most attractive guy you have managed to win over and is constantly 
 trying to extract the best from you, but stop right there. He also has to be in the relationship as much as you are, otherwise there is absolutely no point in being together.”
 
 
 
 Many a time, women fail to recognise such men but it is important that you constantly engage him to talk to you, your friends and family to find out who he exactly is. Media professional Shivani Chaudhary says, “My first two relationships failed because they were either spaced out or most of the times, in their own world. However, the third guy who came into my life seemed really nice and we instantly bonded. But, over time, I realised that he was nothing different than the first two. While with the first two I was quick enough to realise their shortcomings, with the third, it took a year since he had beautifully put on a mask and only showed his true self when I was deeply involved with him. It then got difficult to break away but I did so after losing too much of myself in the relationship.”
 
 
 
 While you may not know that you are in a pattern of falling in love with an emotionally unavailable guy the first time, when it happens for the second time, stop yourself right there.   says, “Identifying them may not be simple but there are ways you can do it. These guys have a way to charm themselves into your heart and your deepest fears and then gradually take advantage of your vulnerability and desire to be a good partner. They always know how to push the buttons and keep you hanging by a thread. They keep you in their grasp but never allow you too much into their life and will never make you their priority. These are points enough for you to understand that its time you move on.”
 
 
 
 Pihu Srivastava, an advertising professional who recently had a break-up, explains, “I was in a relationship with such a guy about eight years back. It took me a year to get over him. Then, I met this other man who was exactly like my ex-boyfriend and I felt at ease with him. We started dating casually and in no time, we got serious. However, after dating him for two years, I felt he did not have the same feelings that I had for him. He was mentally still in a casual relationship with me and would often meet up with other girls. That’s when I realised he was also an emotionally unavailable guy and I broke up with him.”
 
 
 
