CHENNAI: The micro-management of campaigns in the   constituency by political parties is proving a challenge for the   in curbing distribution of money to voters. Huge concentration of parties on this constituency in north Chennai has grabbed attention for all the wrong reasons, leaving the commission perplexed. No amount of surveillance seems to be enough.

 Allegations are pouring in from all sections about voter bribing. Video clips of men carrying bundles of Rs 2,000 notes and voters accepting them have gone viral on social media since Tuesday night. Men armed with copies of electoral rolls and cash arriving at the doorstep of voters and coding walls to identify “prospective“ houses are doing the rounds on WhatsApp. The situation took a violent turn when rivals clashed at Nethaji Nagar, Korukkupet over distribution of cash. CPM state secretary G Ramakrishnan alleged that complaints forwarded to the EC by party workers on cash distribution between 4am and 7am were ignored. “The commission's efforts are ineffective,” he told TOI.
 
 Election officials plead helplessness over the parties' transgressions and non-cooperative voters. “Bypoll is a challenge by itself. More so, the large scale concentration of parties deploying a number of outstation functionaries is another hurdle to scale. The commission deploys huge manpower, but partymen outnumber them,” said a senior official. Political parties are allegedly luring the electorate to Royapuram or Wall Tax Road near Central, outside the constituency , for cash distribution, putting the EC staff in a spot. “Our jurisdiction ends in RK Nagar,” said another official. Given the “critical” state of affairs, the election commission deputed six observers in the rank of IAS, IPS and IRS, which is unheard of in any bypoll in the state.
 
 On Wednesday, the EC appointed Vikram Batra, its director (expenditure), to act as special chief electoral officer. He will report directly to the EC, coordinate with law enforcement agencies and supervise the process.
 
 There are other firsts too -deploy ment of 70 micro observers on motor bikes in the bylanes of RK Nagar and 256 micro observers - all central government employees. Around 30 tahsildar deputy collector rank officers from Andhra Pradesh and Kerala will be part of the flying squads from Thursday, and 30 IAS/IPS probationers will attend to complaints from April 8, even as surveillance cameras have been installed in various locations.
 
 More than 20 senior police officers have been transferred. The control room of the returning officer works round-the clock. But, officials admit that it is almost impossible to catch offenders as residents in certain cases residents do not admit to witnessing cash distribution. “Unless the electorate is educated and cooperative, voter bribing is here to stay,” an officer said. None of the 11 assembly constituencies, and three parliamentary constituencies across the country going to polls this week has seen so much deployment of officers from central pool as compared to RK Nagar, he said.
 
