Nagpur: Functioning without a director since 2003, the state’s Directorate of Art which has nearly 266 private colleges and four government colleges running under its aegis, lost a chance to get a full-time director as two candidates called for interview were found to be ineligible according to the results declared on Wednesday. The post of director was advertised in April this year and two candidates — Vinod Mankar from Government College of Art, Nagpur, and Shashikant Gorakhe, a lecturer at J.J. Schools of Art, Mumbai — had applied. Both appeared for the interview and obtained 37 and 30 marks, respectively, and were declared ineligible.  At the moment Rajiv Mishra, principal of J.J. School of Architecture, is officiating as the director. The last director BB Ingle retired in 2003 and since then persons of the rank of deputy secretary have been holding charge. With nobody at the helm, working at various government run colleges has been severely affected.  Out of the four colleges run by state government only two have deans. Sources at the Government Art College in Nagpur say that only five faculty members are holding permanent posts and rest all are on contract. Out of the 115 posts that should have permanent employees, only 27 are filled across the state. The initiative of inviting applications for the post was well received in the art circles. Mishra has been holding charge for past two years.  “Mishra was given the charge for only one year and after that he has been getting one-month extensions. But his recent extension says that he will hold charge till a suitable candidate is appointed as director,” says a source who hints that Mishra may have manipulated the results. Saying that he was not aware of the results, Mishra told TOI, “I will be glad to hand over the charge to the selected candidate. Since MPSC has called them, I hope someone is selected.” Flummoxed by the development, Mankar, says that it just goes to show that nobody from the field of art is fit to hold the post. “All the posts of professors are vacant in the four government colleges. In the absence of a full-time director, these posts are not being filled. The bulk of the faculty at the colleges are on contract basis.”  Disappointed with the results, he further adds, “Even after 38 years of service, faculty members join and retire as lecturers. The colleges are severely understaffed and its high time a director was appointed to take charge of things.” 