KOCHI: The examination of witnesses in the trial of Vagamon Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) camp case will continue at the   court from Monday with the court set to examine 27 witnesses in the next phase of the trail. 

 The special court will be examining three witnesses in one sitting and is expected to take nine days to complete the examination. The court has already examined 32 witnesses in the case. With the court sitting on two days per week, the witness examination is expected to be completed by June 12.
 
 The Vagamon case is one of the first cases in the state where trial procedure is conducted through video conferencing. The accused, lodged in jails at Bengaluru, New Delhi, Bhopal and Ahmedabad, are being examined by the court via video conferencing connecting the jails to the court in Kochi.
 
 The first phase of the witness examination had started in January. There are more than 150 witnesses in the case. Two of the accused in the case, Subhan Qureshi and Wasiq, are still on the run. Another accused, Mehaboob Malik, was shot dead after he tried to escape from the Bhopal central jail on October 31, 2016.
 
 Mehaboob Malik alias Sheik Mehaboob alias Gudu was one of the eight SIMI operatives killed in an encounter after escaping from Bhopal Central Prison. As per the final chargesheet filed by NIA on December 30 2015, Mehaboob was the 31st accused in the SIMI camp case.
 
 Four of the accused in the case are Malayalis while nine are from Karnataka. Of the accused, as many as 10 persons are from Gujarat, nine from Madhya Pradesh, two from Jharkhand, three from Uttar Pradesh and one from Maharashtra.
 
 The secret camp was conducted from December 10 to 12 in 2007 at Thangalpara in Vagamon. Probes had revealed that the participants were given training in handling arms, manufacture of petrol bombs, motor bike racing and rope climbing. During the training camp at Vagamon, the participants had also engaged in physical training, arms training and firing practice.
 
 NIA had found that classes were taken on Jihadi activities in India at the camp. The classes had prompted participants of the camp to wage war against the country.
 
 The case was probed by deputy superintend of NIA C Radhakrishna Pillai. A forensic evidence collection from the scene had proved that explosives were used in the camp.\
 
