AURANGABAD: Pressing for various demands, including the one against dilution of the Prevention of Atrocity Act, representatives of more than 74 organisations took out a rally   on Friday. 

 The Bahujan Kranti Morcha Sanyojak Samiti, Aurangabad Jalna, organised the march, which started from   and concluded at Aamkhas Maidan. Hundreds of youths, women and senior citizens among others participated in the event.
 
 In an effort to show unity in diversity, the participants belonging to various castes and communities participated in the march wearing traditional attires. 
 
 Social workers, representatives of the social organisation belonging to the scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, other backward classs, nomadic tribes, Marathas, Christians, Muslims, and other vulnerable sections of the society took active part in the event. 
 
 A 15-member delegation gave a charter stating their demands to the district collector and highlighted 39 points which prominently included strengthening of the Atrocity Act. The other demands wereframe effective policies for safety of women, conduct caste based census and give reservations to communities as per their population, award death penalty to persons involved in Kopardi gang rape.
 
 Siddhartha Shingare convenor of the Bahujan Kranti Morcha claimed that more than 20,000 persons arrived from various parts of Aurangabad and Jalna districts to participate in the rally. “This march is part of our district level protest rallies. We have organised such processions in all the districts of the state in the recent past and on Saturday a state level protest march will be held in Mumbai. We are expecting an overwhelming response for the mega   as persons from all sections of the society had turned up for the district level rallies,” he said adding that the organisation will also organise around 500 rallies in various cities across the country.
 
 Speaking at the concluding ceremony of the march at Aamkhas Maidan, 15 representatives of various organisations expressed their views and justified the demands. 
 
 On the occasion, Waman Meshram national president of the Backward and Minority Communities Employees Federation (BAMCEF) alleged the   led government in the state of polarising dalits and Marathas. People belonging to these communities are not agaisnt each other but the people sitting at the helm of affairs do not wish to create harmonious relations among the communities. It was evident from the recent state peace rallies organised all over the state. But we want all the communities to come together and fight for their rights, he said. 
 
 
