NAGPUR: The   ( ) at Sewagram’s   (MGIMS) took out a   on Friday to protest against the increasing incidents of attacks on doctors, especially the latest one on Dr Rohan Mamunkar, the doctor who was brutally assaulted by a mob at Dhule.

 Resident doctors and medical students called the march a Satyagraha procession from hospital to Collector’s office Wardha. The protest was supported by many faculty members of the college who expressed shock and dismay at increasing incidence of violence against doctors.
 
 Many residents expressed their views and shared experiences of misbehaviour, manhandling and assaults by mob of relatives for no fault of the doctors. Such incidences have increased several times in past 3-4 years despite the laws against it. It shows lack of fear and total disregard of law by the criminal elements who go scot free despite having multiple complaints against them.
 
 “We requested increased security for the doctors, appointment of security guards who could really act as guards and not as simple bystanders when such violent acts happen. We also demanded setting up of a police chowki at casualty ward for safety of doctors and as a deterrence to criminal elements,” said Dr Amit Singh, MARD representative.
 
 The MGIMS MARD representatives said that they worked tirelessly with great quantum of commitment and compassion to ease sufferings of humanity and in service of the mankind. Incidences of violence serve to disrepute and dishonour this noble profession and cause great disappointment in the medical fraternity dedicated to service of humanity.
 
 The protesters submitted a memorandum to the college dean Dr K R Patond and demanded increased security for the resident doctors. Same procession culminated by submitting a memorandum to Additional Disrtict Magistrate, Wardha, Mangesh Joshi. Residents requested the   Wardha to propagate message in society through government machinery and Jagruti Sabhas that violence against doctors is a crime and no one should take law in their hands.
 
 Doctors joined back their duties after the march.
 
