LUCKNOW/NEW DELHI: In a first, the UP government has decided to purchase potatoes directly from farmers to cut wastage of the crop due to shortage of cold storages. It was decided in the second cabinet meeting of the Aditya Nath Yogi government in Lucknow on Tuesday.

 Coming in support of the UP government, the Centre approved procurement of 1 lakh metric tonne (MT) of potatoes in the state under the Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) during 2016-17 crop year (JulyJune). The purchase will be made at Rs 4,870 per MT.
 
 After the cabinet meeting, energy minister Shrikant Sharma told reporters that the support would save the farmers from incurring any loss.
 
 The cabinet also gave nod to an agreement with the Centre to ensure 24X7 power. The MoU between UP and the Centre would be signed in the presence of Yogi and Union power minister Piyush Goyal. Sharma said the surcharge waiver would cost the state exchequer around Rs3,500 crore.
 
 In another decision, the government gave nod to short-term mining policy , allowing district magistrates to give permits for mining for a limited period to plug the shortfall of sand and building material. The permit, to be given in 10 days, will be issued through e-tendering, health minister and UP government spokesman Siddharth Nath Singh said.
 
 The government also decided to launch a drive to check the menace of Japanese Encephalitis and would increase beds in hospitals.
 
 The cabinet made it mandatory that all dues to sugarcane farmers should be cleared within the next 120 days.Fresh dues would have to be paid to farmers within 14 days, a promise that the   made in its poll manifesto.Sharma said that around 99% of the sugarcane dues for the year 2014-15 and 2015-16 and approximately 81% for the current fiscal had been cleared. In another decision, the ogi cabinet also decided that Yogi cabinet also decided that the damaged transformers would have to be replaced within 48 hours, unlike the existing system of 72 hours , Sharma said and added that a roaster of 24-hour electricity in district headquarters, 20 hours in tehsil headquarters and 18 hours in rural areas have been okayed.
 
 The Yogi government also gave nod to making roads across the state pothole-free by June 15. “The government has sanctioned Rs 4,502 crore for making 85,943 km of roads identified to be made potholefree,“ Singh said. Rs 282 crore has been released in March 2017 for the purpose while the rest of the amount would be provided in the budget for 2017-18. Adding to it, the   would also repair 3,100 km of national highway . The expenditure to be incurred on the same would be later provided by the Union government, Singh said.
 
 The UP cabinet also decided to give nod to drinking water supply plan for   and allowed two more chances and relaxation in age limit for candidates who appeared in 2013 preliminary examination of joint state subordinate services, Singh concluded.
 
