BHOPAL: More than 325 members of a reserved community are not allowed a hair cut in a barber’s shop at Naisamand village, which is frequented by upper caste. For them entry in hotels and tea stalls is strictly no-no as it means they will share same chairs and sip tea from same cups used by upper caste members of 12 nearby villages, something which is unacceptable and unbearable for village grandees. The village, barely 70 km from the state capital, has a population of 1,800 people comprising Brahmin, Baniya, Rajput, Yadav, Gurjar and Ahirwar.

 “We are told we belong to lower caste so cannot use same razor and chair as used by upper castes,” says  , a resident of the village in Berasia tehsil of Bhopal district. His community is facing social boycott for past three months. Hard to believe members of Scheduled Caste community are ostracised in a place, which is less than 100 km from the seat of power.
 
 Victims of discrimination first tried to lodge a complaint at Nazeerabad police station, but were denied from doing so. Thereafter, they made a complaint on CM Helpline number in December 2015 and received a response almost a year after, in November 2016.
 
 “It all began in November 2015 when a few boys belonging to Ahirwar community were denied haircut by a local barber on the basis of caste. They were hurled abuses and were asked to leave the shop. This led to boys filing a complaint against discrimination on CM helpline number,”  , a local, said.
 
 Lal Singh, who lodged the complaint, told TOI, “In November 2016, we were called at AJK police station. Police called up the barber and asked him not to discriminate and asked him to give haircut whenever we visit his shop. He agreed and gave us a haircut the next day.”
 
 In December 2016, a panchayat was called at Naisamand for those living in Kanikhedi, Bandrua, Gujartodi, Monakund and other villages. The panchayat allegedly decreed that members of the Ahirwar community would not be allowed to enter any place where members of upper caste and other communities visit. From that time, the community is facing a stigma of social boycott.
 
 Dharmchand, an elder from the community, said, “This is an issue of untouchability. We are abused just because we belong to lower caste. Our children in schools are also not allowed to sit with children of upper castes.”
 
 “We have complained about the issue to collector and police. But nothing has been done. Who will protect us if something unpleasant happens,”   said.
 
 Rekha Bai, a local said, “We are not allowed to go anywhere. We are confined to our houses and locality. We can’t even go to well to fetch water. It will be difficult to live if the discrimination does not end.
 
 Kritika (name changed), a minor, told TOI, “In school, we are not allowed to sit with the children from other communities during mid-day meal.”
 
 When questioned, Bhopal collector Nishant Warwade about the issue, he said, “There is no such boycott in the village. Everyone is behaving nicely with each other. We sorted out the issue long back.”
 
 Rajeev Nandan Shrivastav, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Berasia refuses to accept there is discrimination. “Some members of Ahirwar community area are trying to create problems. We need to arrest such people to ensure peace.” Shortly afterwards, he says: “We have asked all to live peacefully with each other.”
 
 Vishnu Khatri, local MLA of the area said, “There is no issue of untouchability in the village. Yes, there are some old customs, like eating together or serving food to person from another caste. These cannot be changed Sometimes, people use caste for political mileage. Personal enmity can be there, but nobody is facing social boycott. It’s a peaceful village.
 
 
