MUMBAI: The state government has ruled that all those involved in the construction of a building, including architect, license surveyor, structural engineer, site  , construction company, contractor, sub-contractor and   for various activities, will now be held liable for any structural flaws or defects that occur within 10 years after it is built.

 But the government seems to have conveniently allowed a major loophole in the rule. It has said the new provision in the city’s development control rules will apply to only projects with built-up area of 20,000 sq m and above—roughly a housing complex with one 40-storey tower with four flats on each floor. “This is a dead giveaway,” said industry sources.
 
 Referring to the observations of World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business 2017 report, the state government said responsibility should be fixed on licensed technical personnel for structural flaws or defects in buildings and advised them to take out professional liability insurance to cover such liability in case of any defect. The   marked high importance to the provision of latent defect liability period in quality control index.
 
 The rule has come into force with immediate effect, although the state urban development department, on Wednesday, issued a public notice inviting objections and suggestions.
 
 A prominent architect, not wishing to be identified, said 80% of the buildings in the city are below 20,000 sq m. “Except for the mill land areas, where plots are large, the city has narrow plots of around 1,000 sq m,” he said. “This provision makes little sense if most projects are going to be left out. Does this mean that buildings with built-up area of less than 20,000 sq m will not suffer from structural flaws?”
 
 Industry sources said the defect liability clause is already included in the new   Regulation Act, which stipulates that builders be held responsible for any flaws during the first three years after the building is completed.
 
 Architects also pointed out that reinforced cement concrete (RCC) buildings generally should remain trouble-free for the first 30 years, except for painting and minor works. “It is only after that the building requires structural repairs,” they said, adding that a life of a RCC building is around 60 years. “A good building will not develop structural flaws in the first 10 years,” they added.
 
 Another architect said flat buyers could also be responsible for damages. “After a building is completed, occupants damage the structure by doing additions and alterations and also carrying out interior works,” he pointed out.
 
 Structural expert   said this is probably the first time in India that professionals in the construction industry have been made accountable for structural defects. “In the US, every architect and developer takes a professional indemnity insurance in case they get sued for substandard work,” he said. Dhupelia, however, cautioned that it is difficult to prove negligence.
 
