SHAMLI, MUZAFFARNAGAR: The   has reasons to worry in West  , particularly the Rural Meerut-Muzaffarnagar-Baghpat-Shamli belt that will go to polls on February 11.
 
  In a region that went along with the BJP in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, the sizeable   are showing signs of disenchantment with the saffron camp ahead of the assembly polls, ET’s interactions with a number of them suggest.
  
  Unlike in the past when they were vocal about their political lines during the election time, Jats look somewhat confused this time around about whom to support.
  
  This has apparently given scope for not only the   to revive its old base in the community, but also to the state’s ruling Samajwadi Party and even the Bahujan Samaj Party to make inroads into this vote base.
  
  The BJP though could expect some relief from consolidation among smaller castes.
  
  Most of the Jat voters ET spoke to were unhappy about the way the BJP handled the community’s demand for reservation in government jobs and the party’s “failure” to have a Jat face to head the government in Haryana.
  
  Another grouse was about inaction on converting a New Delhi bungalow where former Prime Minister Charan Singh lived into a memorial for the Jat leader. All these, for a section of Jat voters, indicate a threat to their identity on India’s political map.
  
  “Jats are no longer a united face either in state or national politics. This is not good,” said Madan Pal, sipping tea at a roadside stall at Pilauna village in Meerut’s Sardhna assembly seat. A series of panchayats were held in different parts of the region to discuss the political stand of Jats in this election, he said.
  
  Most of the Jat voters whom this reporter approached at different spots on an about 100-km stretch on the Meerut-Baghpat-Shamli road expressed similar sentiments.
  
  At Balaini, which demarcates the Baghpat assembly seat from Meerut’s Siwalkhas, Sunil Choudhari looked concerned about the BJP ignoring the community’s demands.
  
  “Choudhari Saheb (Charan Singh) ka bungalow le lee. Memorial to ban sakta tha. (The bungalow in which Choudhari Charan Singh lived should have been converted into a memorial),” he said.
  
  He clarified that he was never a supporter of the RLD led by Charan Singh’s son  . “But Choudhari Saheb still remains a major source of our political identity.”
  
  Vijendra, who spoke to ET at the ‘Shivalik Dhaba’ on the highway near Shamli, which is close to the Haryana border, was vocal against the BJP. He focused his grievance against the BJP for not giving reservation to Jats in government jobs, a demand on which the community in Haryana had gone on a violent strike last year.
  
  “Forget the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. We have decided to select our candidate who can defeat the BJP in the 2017 assembly polls. We will make the BJP realise about our political power to get reservation in government jobs. You see what happened in Haryana,” he said.
  
  At Baghpat’s Chhaparauli, where locals say Jats have more than a lakh votes, the BJP, RLD, SP and BSP have all selected candidates from the community. The seat, therefore, appears to be a testing ground for the popularity of the BJP among Jat voters.
  
  Meanwhile, the Akhil Bhartiya Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti, which is fighting for reservation, has made the task of repeating the 2014 performance a difficult one for the BJP. ABJASS has formed committees at ground levels to continue its agitation against the BJP.
  
  “Youths know they need jobs. Thus they are the strength of our agitation against the BJP in this part. We do not support any party. But we want to defeat the BJP,” said Abhishek Tomar, a ABJASS member and resident of Baraut. 
