GURUGRAM: A 57-year-old businessman, who had pumped nine bullets into his wife in a fit of rage around two years ago, was sentenced to   on Tuesday on the basis of his daughter’s statement in, what the court termed a brutal and rare case.

 Gurgaon district and sessions judge Sudesh Kumar Sharma held Deepak Khullar guilty under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act, and showed him no leniency for his age while awarding the punishment.
 
 The case dates back to October 2014 when Khullar, who owns a furniture shop in Delhi’s Kirti Nagar, emptied his licensed revolver into wife Alka (50) at their Palam Vihar bungalow following a heated argument.
 
 The court, in its order, observed that Khullar was an alcoholic and had a strained relationship with his wife. He used to beat and torture his wife and on the fateful day, he killed his wife after a heated argument. He first fired six rounds from his licensed revolver. Then re-loaded it and again fired three rounds. 
 
 “Alka was brutally shot nine times,” the court added.
 
 Two servants, who were present at the house at the time of the incident, had heard the gunshots and rushed to the couple’s room, where they found Alka lying in a pool of blood.
 
 In his statement to police, Vikas, one of the servants, claimed that Khullar didn’t allow them to call an ambulance or police and threatened them with dire consequences if they did not obey his orders. The servants finally called the police after Khullar left the house.
 
 In the meantime, Khullar called his daughter Abha, who is married and lives in New Delhi’s Janakpuri, and confessed to his crime. Subsequently, she filed a complaint against her father, who was eventually arrested. 
 
 He has been behind bars since then.
 
 Based on Khullar’s revelation, the murder weapon (pistol) was recovered from a place near Meerut Toll plaza. The police also procured the call records of Abha to verify if Khullar had actually called her after the murder.
 
 The statements of Abha and the two servants proved crucial both for the police to establish the crime and the court to arrive at the judgement.
 
 
