The summer has been scorching this year, but the Malayattoor hills reverberate all day and even into the night, with chants of Ponnin Kurishu Muthappa… Ponmalakettam... The heat hasn’t deterred the thousands climbing the Malayattoor Kurisumudy, often carrying heavy wooden crosses, to reach the shrine of St. Thomas on top of the hill. 

 Come the Easter season, March-April, and devotees from across the globe, regardless of the religion they belong to, take upon themselves the arduous three km trek up the hill. The church is believed to have been established by St Thomas, who arrived at the Malabar Coast aboard an Arab trading vessel, a few years after the death of Jesus. The largest pilgrimage centre of St Thomas in India, it is looked upon by devotees as a place to leave their worries behind.
 
 The busiest days here are the weeks before and after Easter where one can see the roads to Malayattoor spotted with umpteen pilgrims carrying crosses. On Good Friday, as the world commemorates the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and his death at Calvary, we explore how this unusual ritual came about and what it means to devotees.
 
 
 
 
 The first-timers among the pilgrims who throng Malayattoor unanimously say that the pious atmosphere at Malayattoor is reminiscent of that of Sabarimala. Nora Mathews from Punaloor and her friend Rajeesh Narayan who visited the pilgrim centre recently were surprised to see the striking similarities between the two. 
 
 Rajeesh says, “I had been to Sabarimala this year and had followed the 41-day Vrishchika vratham, for the first time. I really enjoyed the process of climbing the steps, chanting Swamiye Ayyappo…Ayyappo Saranam. When Nora asked me to accompany her to Malayattoor, I was under the impression that it is going to be just another Christian pilgrimage centre. To my amazement, what I saw was quite similar to the rituals in Sabarimala,” he says.
 
 Nora agrees. “Instead of Swamiye Ayappo, people here chant Ponnin Kurishu Muthappa… Ponmalakettam. Instead of Irumudikkettu, people carry brooms, or heavy stones on their head and also wooden crosses. If Sabarimala is on the banks of Pamba, Malayattoor is situated alongside the Periyar River. We also observe 40 days Lent for Easter,” she says.
 
 While the youngsters try to find similarities, Kottayam-native Mathew George says there is nothing surprising about it as the rituals of every religion in Kerala are similar to each other. “We owe it to the receptiveness of the State which has helped it to accept different religions and cultures.”
 
 
 It is no easy task to climb uphill, but the more rigorous the sacrifice, the more effective the pilgrimage will be, believe the devotees. “We consider it as a means of redemption and peace, to fulfil our prayers and seek support,” says Thomas Parekkat, who, along with 18 of his friends walks barefoot from their native town Pala to Malayattoor every year, “We walk 75 kilometres from here to Malayattoor. But neither the hot climate nor the pollution makes us feel weary. We have been making the trip for more than thirty years, and have made many friends on the way, who offer us food, water and sometimes even shelter. We can’t imagine missing our annual trip to Malayattoor,” he says.
 
 While some walk barefoot, many carry heavy wooden crosses and place it at the top, which is a matter of pride for many. And interestingly, the heavier the cross, the happier they are! “We seek out the best wood every year to make the cross and carry it to commemorate the Way of the Cross (Christ carrying the cross on his way to his crucifixion). Climbing nearly three km carrying the cross gives us utmost satisfaction. The rigorous fasting we observe bestows us with the strength to face all adversities in the coming year! It provides us with peace of mind and improves our tolerance levels,” says Binu Thomas, a member of St Joseph Church, Rippon, Wayanad, who along with ten of his friends, carried a cross weighing nearly 300 kg. “Once we reach the top, we feel refreshed and the tiredness vanishes miraculously,” he adds.
 
 For prosperity and well-being, women carry brooms up the hill while a few others carry heavy stones that symbolise the burdens of life, to which they bid happy goodbyes on top of the hill. “We leave all our worries and struggles with God and climb down the hill,” says Maria Theresa from Kuravilangad.
 
 
 
  Malayattoor has never been a church reserved only for those who believe in Christianity. Take a stroll along the hill and one can see people with head scarves, sandalwood paste on their foreheads and even with turbans. 
 
 Pentagenerian Komalavally from Neyyatinkara has been visiting the shrine since the age of five. According to her, a lot of development has happened in the church and its surroundings over the years, making it pilgrim-friendly. “When I was small, the Kodanadu Bridge over the Periyar had not been built yet. We used to commute through boat. There were thick forests all around and we had to find our way to climb up. From my village, we used to come as a group which included people from all religions. Even after getting married and settling in Kanyakumari, I would come down and join the team,” she says.
 
 Fathima Beevi, who has been accompanying her since childhood, adds that the idea has been passed on to the younger generations as well. “None of our children have ever hesitated to come along with us. Malayattoor has always been a secular pilgrimage centre and none of the activities of the communal forces in the recent years can deter our spirits,” Fathima says.
 
  Jessica Hurley and Brian Wills from San Diego, who are on a vacation to God’s Own Country, are all excited to see the large groups at the pilgrim centre. The duo say, “We were amazed to see people from different walks of life joining together, aiming at repentance. What more does one need to attain salvation than climb the hills along with them?”
 
 
 
 
 While climbing the Malayattoor hills is all about faith and rituals for the majority, some youngsters combine spirituality with adventure for the trip. Graduation students from Bangalore, Rebecca John, Shishir Kundra, Shajad Mohammed and Meera Malik climbed the hill in just half an hour in their trekking gear. “More than anything else, we felt spiritually energised as we reached the top. Next time we aren’t planning to dress like this, as we see people even walking barefoot faster than us!’ says Rebecca.
 
  Even elders find the entire journey to the shrine as a boost to their health, besides following traditions. Varghese Thundyil from Ayarkunnam divulges that the nearly forty days of Lent and climbing the sacred hill also helps the devotees rid themselves of toxins, both from their physical and mental selves. “The climb is actually cathartic, as it purifies us and helps us stay healthy till next year this time. Guess that’s exactly what those who introduced the pilgrimage might have aimed at!” he says.
 
 
 
