ANAND:   leaders including Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, union agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh and minister of state for agriculture Parshottam Rupala on Tuesday took digs at Congress vice-president  , who is on a three-day visit to the state since Monday.

 The leaders were speaking during a function to confer Dairy Excellence Awards organised by the   (NDDB) in milk city Anand. 
 
 In fact, both Rupala and Rupani compared Gandhi and opposition Congress with a bunch of bats – the small, nocturnal flying mammals ‘who cannot appreciate the existence of sun’. 
 
 “These ‘chamachidiyas’ (bats) don’t even know that there exists a sun which spreads light in the world. My comments has nothing to do with opposition. But since they have not travelled this path (of development), they will not even know the hurdles that one comes across,” Rupani said. 
 
 Making a direct reference to Gandhi’s visit to Gujarat, Rupani said that since Monday the “shehzada” of Congress is questioning the benefits of ‘Digital India’ initiative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. 
 
 “He is not capable of understanding benefits of such an initiative. It is thanks to such initiatives that just today, in this function we have launched an automatic milk collection system software and a genotyping chip for the benefit of farmers,” he said. 
 
 Talking to media persons after the function, Rupani continued his verbal attacks on Gandhi and opposition Congress. 
 
 “It is natural that Congress which does not have any poll issue is doing loose talks. But I want to ask Gandhi why was the work on Narmada dam delayed for seven years. Whose government was being remote-controlled from 10 Janpath? Lakhs of cusecs of water got wasted because the permission for construction of dam was not given on time,” he said. 
 
 Union agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh too hit out at Congress stating that Gujarat had faced a lot of injustice even when it was a progressing under Narendra Modi government. “But now there is a government at centre which does not discriminate based on politics,” said Singh, “now expressing concerns for Gujarat is nothing less than a ‘nautanki’.” 
 
 
