THANE: A sound academic background, an unstained record in the police files and an easy-to-approach attitude are the desired qualities in a candidate which would influence the voters during the February 21 polls to the   here, a sample survey conducted by this newspaper revealed.

 The TOI dipstick which covered 60 Thaneites from varied  , age group and gender clearly revealed that the Gen Xs definition of an ideal corporator is one who is academically qualified and has a vision for improving basic services and effective functioning of the ward.
 
 As many as 75 per cent of the young voters (26 years - 35year age group) and the first-time voters, believe that education will be the key differentiater for them.
 
 “We need an educated and a solution-centric corporator who will not only resolve our everyday woes, but has a strategic vision plan for improving the area,” said Sneha Gaikwad (22), a Naupada resident who will cast her ballot for the first time.
 
 Around 40 per cent of the veteran voters said their preference would be for the time-and-tested corportors who has actively worked for his locality without any formal education degree but is prompt in resolving issues of water cuts, bad roads, and so on.
 
 Shiv Muttoo (47), a resident of Hiranandani Estate, said, “More than academic qualifications, I believe the ideal corporator needs to have street smartness which will help him or her resolve all issues quickly. We can only gauge this on the basis of what work they have done in the past and how accessible they have been to public opinions. I personally believe that any candidate with a criminal record is a strict no, as he doesn’t abide by the law himself, let alone leading the entire ward in the right direction.”
 
 It was also seen that around 13 per cent denizens did not bother if their future corporator is accessible enough for them as they claimed that they are only approachable till the time they are elected. 
 
 “The politicians are only visible till the time the elections are at the doors, once they are elected it becomes difficult to reach them and convey our problems to them. Most of the times they are not even available in their offices,” said Rakesh Kumar, Brahmand resident.
 
