COIMBATORE: As many as four people died of   in the last two days. As many as three fresh   were reported in the western districts of the state.

 A 15-month-old boy in Salem died of   and   in a private hospital on Tuesday morning after he was diagnosed with H1N1 on January 27. A 32-year-old woman from Pudukottai and a 63-year-old man from Trichy died at private hospitals as a result of delayed detection.
 
 The 15-month-old boy was treated in two separate private hospitals in Salem from January 20 to 27. After confirming H1N1, doctors in Salem referred him to a private hospital in Coimbatore.
 
 Officials of the health department and Salem Municipal Corporation (SMC) screened his family , friends and neighbours. “Though they did not have any symp toms of H1N1, we have administered vaccines and tablets to them,“ deputy director of health, Salem, K Poongodi said. She said the department will be on alert.“We have formed special wards in all the government hospitals. Anyone with prolonged fever should consult a doctor immediately .“
 
 The lack of isolation ward and proper treatment at Trichy's private hospitals claimed two lives in the last two days. S Suresh, 32, of Aathankarai Viduthi near Alangudi in Pudukkottai district died at the isolation ward at MGMGH on Monday night.
 
 In Puducherry , three people, who tested positive for H1N1, have died of other complications since January 1, said health minister Malladi Krishna Rao. At present, a doctor from Jipmer and a doctor attached to Puducherry government hospital were undergoing treatment at the isolation wards in Jipmer for H1N1.
 
 A 15-month-old girl from Erode was admitted to the Salem government super specialty hospital with symptoms of H1N1 on Tuesday . The child, A Subasri, is a resident of Veerappanchatram in Erode district.
 
 In Coimbatore, two new cases of H1N1 infection were reported on Tuesday . A 57year-old woman from Selvapuram and a 68-year-old man from Karamadai tested positive for the infection on Tuesday , resident medical officer M Soundaravel told TOI.
 
