CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court issued a notice to the Haryana government on Monday, following a plea demanding prosecution of four cops who were posted in Rewari district when 32 Sikhs were killed during November 1984 in the  

 Justice Hari Pal Verma issued the notice after hearing a plea filed by Manwinder Singh, a resident of Ludhiana district, who had had also taken up the matter before the commission of inquiry headed by Justice T P Garg that had probed the issue. The matter has been fixed for September 26 for further hearing.
 
 The petitioner had sought prosecution of four cops, the then Rewari superintendent of police (SP)  , the then Jatusana deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ram Bhaj, the then Jatusana station house officer (SHO) Ram Kishore and Jatusana police station head constable Ram Kumar on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Garg commission that has “revealed the culpability of cops” in the incident.
 
 The petitioner had referred Garg panel’s report in which commission had found that entire investigation was carried in “slipshod manner.”
 
 Counsel for the petitioner, P S Hundal, also referred to page 110 of the inquiry commission’s report regarding role of law enforcement agency in which it was held that “lack of fear of police was also one of the cause for the happening of such a tragic incident.”
 
 Further referring to page 117 of the report, the petitioner submitted that “these cops during the investigation have contradicted each other in their sworn evidence submitted before commission.”
 
 The petitioner, referring to the report said, it was a complete no-action on the part of the law enforcement agency, further adding that the state of Haryana needs reforms that would make all those agencies entrusted with maintenance of law and order legally liable for mass crimes like the one in village Hondh in district Rewari.
 
 He further said that the record revealed two persons,   and Rampal, were arrested in relation to the incident but both were discharged as the case was untraced and no evidence could be collected by cops.
 
 The incident had taken place on November 2, 1984, after the assassination of the then Prime Minister   when an armed mob murdered around 32 persons and virtually wiped out an entire hamlet. When the incident was brought to light in 2011, the Haryana government had set up an inquiry commission headed by former high court judge Justice T P Garg.
 
 
