HYDERABAD: A 36-year-old woman from Kushaiguda in the city is being tortured in Saudi Arabia where she was trafficked to last year. 

 The victim  , mother of two children, is being made to kneel in the hot sun. The kafil is also reportedly burning her using hot iron rods – all because she wants to return to India unable to bear their torture. The employer has reportedly burnt her on her legs and thighs.
 
 In a chocked voice and with fear, Manjula narrated her sufferings to her husband Ravi. “She has been threatened by the kafil that they will send her body back to India but will not allow her to leave,” a weeping Ravi told TOI on Friday. He said his 15-year-old daughter Sujana and 12-year-old son Shravan were spending sleepless nights worried about Manjula. In a voice recording that Ravi has of the conversation, Manjula appears distressed and thoroughly shaken. She pleads to be rescued.
 
 Ravi has urged the   and union external affairs minister   to rescue his wife from the clutches of the employer. An illegal agent by name Sattar had approached the family and promised Manjula that she would get paid well if she went to Qatar. However, from Qatar she was smuggled into Saudi Arabia. In Qatar she was kept for three months before taken to Saudi Arabia and kept in a house for work.
 
 “For the last five months she has been crying and complaining about torture. She is saying that she is being threatened with death. I want my wife to be rescued,” Ravi said. The family had some debts to be cleared as they needed money for their children’s education. Manjula had sewing machine and earned some money and Ravi works on a borewell vehicle. The amount they got was insufficient to meet the family needs.
 
 “My children and are in a terrible state of shock. At 2 in the night, sometimes my wife gives a missed call from another servant’s phone in Saudi Arabia. She has to talk secretly. If the employer finds out she is making calls to her family, she is treated violently,” Ravi said.
 
