 

 Action films in India surely have their own fan base, and when you have   starring in the film, the action sequences are bound to be stunning. As the stars of   came visiting Ahmedabad for promotions, Vidyut Jamwal, along with his director  , shared how action films, even though one of the most popular genres in India, are yet to achieve a cult status. Unlike Hollywood, where action heroes have their own standing, action heroes in   still have a long way to go when it comes to gaining stardom and popularity. The actor-director duo opened up for a chat with AT. Excerpts:
 
 Why are all Bollywood action movies invariably compared to Hollywood films?
 Vidyut: There is always a reference point. And when it comes to action, Hollywood films have paved a path for years. But things are changing as our films are creating extraordinary action as well and I think it is only a matter of time when this would stop.
 Deven: Action films in Bollywood are one of the most popular genres in India, but these films are not yet respected as much other films are. But the fact is that action films require a lot more hard work. Designing, implementing and successfully pulling off those action sequences is not easy. But we still don't take them so seriously. 
 
 So how did action film became you directorial debut in Bollywood Deven, considering they have a limited audience? Besides you have always been associated with comedy and family dramas.
 Deven: I did a television series some time back and it had some action in it. That got me really interested as I enjoyed doing it. Wahin se mujhe action films ka keeda laga. And I feel I perform much better when I am out of my comfort zone. And that is what I wanted to do with my first film as a director. I wanted to push myself and work out of my comfort zone, to challenge myself. And I really enjoyed it.
 
 Vidyut, you must be following a tough fitness regimen considering the kind of action you do.
 Vidyut: Unlike many other actors, who follow a strict diet and quit eating food that they actually like, I totally indulge myself. I eat everything and how much ever I feel like. The only thing is that I exercise regularly and follow a tough exercise regimen. That is my philosophy, eat everything and burn it out with hardcore fitness schedule. 
 
 When we see your stunts, the first reference that comes to mind is that of Tony Jaa (Ong Bak fame). Do you follow other action stars from across the world?
 Vidyut: Actually, everyone has their own reference points. Someone asked me that if I take inspiration from Arnold Schwarzenegger. But yes, I do follow other action superstars, but I have a style of my own. I, like many of us, grew up watching stars like Amitabh Bachchan and Vinod Khanna, who would beat up the bad guys and save the girl. And whenever I used to come out from the theater after watching these films, I would feel I could do it as well. And that inspired me too. Although things have changed quite a lot since then, but that sure remains a fine memory.
 
 Deven, now that you have made your directorial debut, any plans of making a   debut?
 Deven: I am a Gujarati, and I would love to be a part of the Gujarati film industry. Actually, I did get a few offers, but either I didn't have the dates or the project was not that interesting. But I have heard that in the last two years, the Gujarati film industry has seen tremendous growth and few films have done really well. So I am all game for making a Gujarati film debut. If I get something interesting, I will surely sign it.
 
