MUMBAI:   ( ), India's largest IT firm, is working to bring its operating margin closer to the annual targeted level of 26-28 per cent, though it was hit in the first quarter by wage hikes and rupee appreciation, its top executive told ET.

 Operating margin for the first quarter stood at 23.4 per cent versus 25.7 per cent for FY17. “The target continues to be 26-28 per cent. It has fallen and we are seeing what it takes to take it back. Optimism is predicated on growth coming back and further growth into the digital space as we cycle into newer areas,” CEO  , who took over from   in February, said, adding that the share of digital revenue, which stands at 18.9 per cent, will continue to grow.
 
 “As technology matures and as it moves into a large adoption cycle, there will be fewer but larger deals. What we call legacy today, we used to call e-business 10 years back. Potential (for digital) is almost 90-95 per cent. Web technologies took 10-12 years. Digital will take 7-8 years," said Gopinathan.
 
 Mumbai-headquartered TCS, like its peers in the $150-billion IT industry, is seeing slower pace of large deal closures and it is increasingly relying on smaller digital deals. Robotics, machine learning, artificial intelligence and cloud are becoming part of business model.
 
 Gopinathan said that as deals are touching more enterprise-wide, the deal sizes are increasing and the company's participation is becoming better. At the same time, one of the biggest roadblocks for the company at present is that clients are holding back on large technology spending in its biggest market, the US.
 
 According to CLSA analyst Ankur Rudra, though lower realisation prevented better margin control, a stronger second half growth and improving utilisation can help recover margins.
 
 HSBC, on the other hand, said TCS margins were under pressure due to weakness in banking and retail sector. But Gopinath expressed hope that the company could see accelerated growth when the economic cycle changes. 
 
 "I don't think the sentiment is negative by any stretch of imagination. Investments are still lacking in some of our larger sectors like banking, financial services and   (BFSI) segments as they wait for some of the anticipated changes in the US regulatory front tax regime to flow through. I see there is a lot of latent demand of technology," he said.
 
 The company has also been taking steps to enhance its talent pool. Last month, TCS said it hired more than 12,500 people across the country in the past five years, and it expects to hire more in 2017.
 
  However, its efforts to hire in the US is turning out to be more challenging. "While we hire tens of thousands in India, hiring of even in the 1000s in the US is a big challenge. The US is at full employment overall economy level and the tech sector is even more supply constrained. Hiring should be seen in that context. Everyone is fighting for the same pie and it is a fairly small pie," said Gopinathan.
 
 Rival IT firm   plans to hire more than 10,000 people — a mix of freshers and experienced people — in the US over the next two years.  , which hired 4,000 people in the US in 2016, too expects to accelerate its pace of hiring. On Thursday, TCS reported a net profit of $923 million on revenue of $4.59 billion for the quarter ended June.
 
