NEW DELHI: Elite Delhi   Club ( ) has put on hold all “out-of-turn” permanent memberships granted in past one-and-a-half months, following a district court’s finding that these violated rules.

 The decision to put such   in abeyance was taken at a meeting of general committee of the club in the first week of January.
 
 A Patiala House court, in an interim   in November last year, barred DGC from giving “out-of-turn” permanent memberships to children of existing members after it held that DGC rules had no provision for such grant of memberships.
 
 The order was communicated to the club in January by the lawyers for   who has filed a civil suit against DGC.
 
 Sources said the club’s management was in a bind soon after it received the court direction and has sought legal opinion from independent jurists. It wants to understand if the order became applicable to DGC from the moment it was delivered on November 30 or in the first week of January when the club came to know of its existence.
 
 “The honourable ADJ has passed an interim order which was brought to the notice of the management through the counsel of the plaintiff on January 6, 2017 at 8.59pm. The certified copy of the order has still not been made available to the management by the club counsel,” informs a notice dated January 16 posted in the club.
 
 Referring to the court’s interim order, the notice adds, “while legal opinion on operability of the court order on the club is being sought, the general committee in its January 7 meeting has directed to put on hold all upgradations of UCP to permanent post November 30, 2016. Accordingly all UCPs who were upgraded to permanent membership post November 30, 2016 are held in abeyance and simultaneously advised to use their UCP cards.”
 
 Sources in the club said nearly 40 UCP applicants had been granted permanent membership during this period, including a senior lawyer who represented the club. All these have now been put on hold till further legal proceedings, leading to protests by affected card holders against withholding their membership.
 
 Additional district judge Vineeta Goyal said it is the duty of a club to follow doctrine of “fairness” and held that grant of out of turn membership to green card holders/ UCPs (children of members) violates provisions of DGC’s foundational rules—Article of Association (AOA). 
 
 The court had said the club could not make rules, regulations, bylaws or act arbitrarily, emphasising that strict implementation of AOA and bylaws is imperative.
 
 
