NOIDA: A few days after the Supreme Court prohibited political parties from seeking votes in the name of religion, caste or language, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration has decided invoke Section 144 of the CrPC to prevent any such vote appeal, made on social media or even on a private WhatsApp group. 

 Anyone who notices such a vote appeal being made on Facebook, Twitter or a WhatsApp group can complain about the violation to the officer in charge of the control room at the district collectorate in Greater  .
 
 A helpline number to look into such issues and other election-related complaints will be provided by the district administration on Tuesday, officials said.
 
 Additional district magistrate (enforcement) and deputy election officer Kumar Vineet told TOI that district forest officer HV Girish will be the incharge of the election control room at the collectorate, where complaints will be attended to by officials.
 
 “As per the Supreme Court judgment, seeking votes on the basis of caste, religion and community is illegal. While election speeches are made openly, these days social media is also used for such activities. Hence we decided to incorporate such appeals and assertions under  . Any violation can lead to an FIR against the candidate involved,” he said.
 
 Section 144 of the CrPC gives special powers to the district magistrate, sub-divisional magistrate or any other executive magistrate specially empowered by state government, to direct any person to abstain from a certain act or take certain order as he deems fit, provided he feels that the direction can prevent, or tends to prevent, obstruction, annoyance or injury to any person lawfully employed, or danger to human life, health or safety, or a disturbance of the public tranquility, or a riot, of an affray.
 
 Officials said that the case may be registered against the violator under sections 188 and 171 (h) of the IPC or  ,   depending on the nature of the complaint.
 
 According to Girish, any complaint received will be forwarded to the assistant returning officer (ARO) concerned. There is one ARO for each of the three tehsils, Noida, Dadri and Jewar.
 
 “Action will be taken against the violator once the ARO’s report is received,” he said.
 
  can send their complaints to adeo-gbn@nic.in and dmgbncampoffice@nic.in.
 
 
