PANAJI: Goa is all set to be soaked in festive fervor as the four-day   of revelry and frenzy takes grip across the coastal state. Originally celebrated by Catholics to mark the countdown towards Lent, Carnival has become a state attraction, bringing in tourists and party-goers who wish to indulge in the naughtiness of Carnival.

 The party kicks off at Panaji at 3.30 pm on Saturday, when   and his entourage enter the capital to decree that all in attendance must make merry down till Shrove Tuesday (Fat Tuesday) the eve of Ash Wednesday, which is the first day of the season of Lent.
 
 Revellers in large numbers are expected to throng the streets of Panaji alongside river Mandovi as the four-day Goa Carnival kick starts. According to  , 51 floats are participating in the carnival parade. The floats will line up from Divja circle to the Mermaid garden along the Mandovi river front.
 
 “Carnival started in a very simple way with no floats in the beginning. It was only in 1974 that floats were introduced in the carnival parade,” seven-time first prize winner for floats and Carnival veteran   said.
 
 Given the phenomenal growth in the festival and the crowd it pulls, the state tourism department taken over the festival and now organizes the float parades across all the major towns based on a pre-defined schedule. GTDC expects over 50,000 tourists to arrive in Goa during the weekend to witness the carnival festivities.
 
 Goa’s carnival borrows heavily from the Brazilian carnival gaiety. Right from the dance troupes to the extravagant floats, Goa’s carnival parade shows its Brazilian roots. This includes King Momo and his decree, both of which are Brazilian in origin.
 
 However, veteran organizers are not really happy with the direction taken by Carnival over the last couple of years.
 
 “Carnival has undergone so much of change over the years. They just have music today and don’t take trouble to design the floats,” Martin adds.
 
 Musician   will essay the role of 'King Momo' who will reign over the state for the next four days.
 
 Carnival has been celebrated in Goa in some form or the other since the 18th century and is meant to be a time for merrymaking, just before the 40 days of Lent, which is a time of abstinence and spirituality. The term Carnival means 'to take away meat', since Catholics avoid meat for 40 days during Lent.
 
 “It was an excuse to celebrate. Now it has become a big festival with so many people coming,” a state tourism official said.
 
