AGRA: With an eye on safety, Agra divisional commissioner has directed the transport department to ensure that no school vans run on   cylinders after May 31. Owners of such vehicles have an option to convert to CNG mode.

  Divisional commissioner K Rammohan   held a meeting with top officials including the DM and SSP on Friday evening. He directed district magistrate Gaurav Dayal to hold a meeting with school authorities and transport officials in this regard. Regional transport department district supply officer has been entrusted with implementation of the rule.
  
  The department has also been given a week’s time to ensure action against unauthorized buses which operate from outside bus. Rao warned officials that action would be taken against them if such vehicles seen plying after the deadline.
  
  Sources said these buses usually do not have the required documents but have names claiming political connections such as “Mulayam Singh Yadav Travels” and “Lalu Prasad Yadav Transport”. The owners of these buses, which number 70 in Agra and more than 200 in Firozabad have used these names to get away with traffic and other violations. In March this year, transport officials had made an attempt to clamp down on these “neta buses” but without much success.
  
    has been asked to construct dividers on National Highway-2. A meeting with   officials will be held soon. Moreover, the departments concerned have been asked to identify accident-prone black spots on the national highways.
  
  As diesel-run vehicles are banned in the Taj Trapezium Zone, the transport department has been asked to strictly implement the rule in Agra, Mathura and Firozabad.
  
  Expressing his displeasure over haphazard parking by auto rickshaws, the divisional commissioner directed traffic police to identify places where such vehicles can be parked. A meeting with auto and taxi unions will be held soon to allocate such spaces in the city, sources said.
  
  Municipal corporation officials have been directed to remove encroachments, besides take punitive action against illegal hoardings.
