NEW DELHI: In his last address to the nation as  ,   made an impassioned case for freeing public discourse from all kinds of violence.

 Mukherjee said the capacity for compassion and empathy is the “true foundation” of India’s civilisation. “But, everyday, we see increased violence around us. At the heart of this violence is darkness, fear and mistrust. We must free our public discourse from all forms of violence, physical as well as verbal,” said Mukherjee.
 
 Citing Mahatma Gandhi, Mukherjee said only a nonviolent society could ensure the participation of all sections, especially the marginalised and dispossessed, in the democratic process.
 
 “India is not just a geographical entity. It carries a history of ideas, philosophy, intellect, industrial genius, craft innovation and experience,” Mukherjee said. Plurality had come through the “assimilation of ideas” over the centuries, he said. “Multiplicity in culture, faith and language is what makes India special. We derive our strength from tolerance,” he said.
 
 “We may argue, we may agree or we may not agree. But we cannot deny the essential prevalence of multiplicity of opinion. Otherwise, a fundamental character of our thought process will wither away,” he added.
 
 Stressing the need for focusing on the poor, he said, “Financial inclusion is at the core of an equitable society. We must empower the poorest of the poor and ensure that the fruits of our policies reach the last person in the line.”
 
 Mukherjee, a former lecturer who has often assumed the role of a teacher during his visits within and outside the country, said education could take India to its next ‘Golden Age’. 
 
 Referring to the “transformative power” of education, he called for upgrading the country’s higher educational institutions to world-class levels. “Our education system must accept disruption as a norm and prepare our students to manage and build upon the disruptions. Our universities should not be a place for rote-memorising but an assembly of inquisitive minds,” he said.
 
 He also spoke of the need to protect the environment.
 
 He said nature had been kind in its bounty, but cautioned that “when greed exceeds need, nature lets loose its fury”. He asked scientists and technologists to work with farmers and workers to revive the health of the soil, arrest the decline in the water table, and restore the ecological balance.
 
 Mukherjee emphasised the people’s right to lead a happy life, which, he said, could be achieved through good governance, social inclusion and poverty eradication. “Social inclusion would ensure access to the fruits of progress to all,” he said, adding, “We all have to act together now for the future may not give us another chance.”
 
