THIRUVANATHAPURAM:   syndicate sub-committee would visit Kerala   on Monday and Tuesday to receive complaints from students and the university would convene a special syndicate on January 25 to discuss the grievances of the students and the steps to be taken to resolve the student strike on the campus.

 The syndicate meeting witnessed chaotic scenes on Saturday. Syndicate member and KPCC secretary Jyothikumar Chamakkala raised the   issue and the UDF members wanted the syndicate to discuss the student agitation as the first item. Following the ruckus, the syndicate meeting was adjourned for some time and later it was decided that that the syndicate would hold a meeting to discuss the Law Academy issue at 2pm.
 
 Chamakkala alleged that the CPM was trying to protect the Law Academy management. Further, he levelled allegations of favouritism by Law Academy authorities towards chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s media advisor John Britas and requested the university vice-chancellor to produce the mark list of John Britas at the syndicate meeting. Upon directive of the VC, the controller of examination has produced the mark list. 
 
 “The mark list produced by the VC proved my allegations true. Britas has secured over 90% mark for all internal assessments while many students were denied the marks they were truly eligible for. He was also given 75% attendance. He has appeared for only three papers and with the backing of 20 marks (maximum internal marks) for each paper, he can easily clear the three-year LLB course without any strain. Law Academy authorities does similar favours to persons of their choice and cut the internal marks of genuine students who are not in their list of favourites,” Chamakkala said.
 
 Meanwhile, ABVP has announced a Law Academy bandh on Monday. “The decision of the authorities to resume classes on Monday, without addressing the student protest, cannot be justified,” ABVP state secretary P Syamraj said. 
 
 ABVP wanted the government to take action against the authorities for misuse of government lease land at   near secretariat here, where the academy trust has recently constructed a multi-storey apartment complex. ABVP said the academy trust members were misusing 13 acres government had given to the academy on lease. 
 
