PATNA: Flying thousands of miles, around 350 Sikhs, majority of them from Birmingham in the United Kingdom (UK), have assembled in Patna to celebrate the 350th birth anniversary of   Ji. These Sikhs are also serving pilgrims selflessly here.

 The Sikhs, many of whom were born and brought up in the UK, are enjoying a lifetime experience by serving food to devotees at langars and spreading Guru Gobind Singh’s message of love.
 
 Around 60 women, young and old, are working as ‘sewadaars’ at Kangan Ghat langar round the clock. Several of them were spotted sitting nearby ovens and cooking rotis without reflection of any discomfort on their faces. 
 
 These   are still linked to their roots. All these people clad in complete white dresses are making their presence felt at Patna City. Harvey Singh Doal (43), born and brought up in Birmingham, said they are ‘sewadaars’ of Baba Mahindra Singh of Guru Nanak Nishkam Sevak Jattha of Birmingham which runs free schools and serves food to the needy. 
 
 “This is an amazing experience. This celebration is outstanding. The langar is functional round the clock. If someone gets tired, we have a separate team of people which performs massage to relax body aches which arises after working continuously. Once the ache subsidises, we all resume work,” said Doal, a businessman from Birmingham.
 
 Jagjeet Singh (45), a working professional, while stuffing paneer samosas at the massive kitchen of their langar, said he had applied for leave in April 2016 to make himself available for the occasion. “This is a lifetime opportunity for us and we are trying to serve more and more people,” said Jagjeet.
 
 Helping Jagjeet were Dalvindrajeet Singh, Harjinder Singh and  , also from Birmingham. Kulvider, a housewife, said, “I can’t describe the feeling. I will never forget this event.”
 
  (27), an engineer, said he had shifted to Birmingham from Punjab with parents when he was only six years old. “I have never been to such a massive event earlier and would remember this occasion for a very long time,” he said while sweeping the floor after a batch of people finished langar. Tegmant Singh (21) echoed Agamjot’s tone.
 
 
