When   arrived in Bengaluru to work for Siemens 10 years ago, he was `shocked'. Coming from Yadgir and having studied engineering in  , he found it surprising that many people in   could not speak Kannada. To help colleagues in the company who had come from other states, he and a few others started teaching spoken   to them. Ten years down the line, Prasad has launched a startup that is a platform to learn Indian languages.

 IndLangs is an Indian language learning startup whose vision is to 'Bring focus back to maatru bhaasha'. “The objective is to provide an online platform to all Indian languages, through which people from all over the world can learn to speak and also read and write Indian languages.“
 
 Having experimented with teaching Kannada over the last 10 years, Prasad says it takes 16-20 hours to get anyone to speak the language.He has conducted Kannada classes for many corporates, including Biocon, MTR Foods, Wonobo, Aquentia and GoalWise. Apartment residents as well as some CEOs have found Prasad's IndLangs ideal.
 
 
 
 
 Most people who try to learn Kannada in Bengaluru find that there are very few professionals teaching it as a short-term course. “People find it difficult to attend courses over months. It has to be short and easy.Most people who try to learn it from a colleague or a friend end up learning only two-three phrases like `oota ayta', and `coffee ayta,'“ he says.
 
 Prasad has created a new format with his experience and experiments in teaching Kannada. “The biggest mistake anyone trying to learn Kannada or any Indian language makes is to learn it through English.If you know any Indian language, you can learn another easily. Another mistake while learning Kannada, particularly for someone who knows Hindi, is ending words with a consonant.Kannada words end with vowels. We also make it fun to learn the lan guage,“ he says.
 
 IndLangs promises to teach Kannada during the course of 10-12 classes. There are offline as well as online classes through videos and mobile app. “Kids learn faster than adults. But even many adults managed to learn to speak and even read Kannada in less than 12 hours,“ says Prasad.
 
 
 
 
 Prasad has the experience of teaching Kannada to over 2,000 people in Bengaluru, including doctors, marketing executives, advocates, journalists and other professionals. “There are many women who want to learn Kannada and teach it to their children as they have settled down in Bengaluru. We try to infuse some culture of Karnataka too while teaching. For many who have settled down in Bengaluru, Karnataka comprises Bengaluru, Mysore and Coorg.They think Ooty is part of Karnataka.“
 
 
 
 
 Prasad has noticed two issues with Kannada that should be an eye-opener. “Most people who have settled down in Bengaluru from outside want their kids to learn Kannada as a language and not as syllabus. Kids write exams for the Kannada language in school. But at the end of it they cannot even speak Kannada. IndLangs provides the solution. But the government should take note that kids passing Kannada language in school still cannot speak Kannada. The other issue is that of Kannadigas themselves. Those from outside who learn Kannada in Bengaluru find it difficult to practice it because Kannadigas give them so options of speaking in so many languages.“
 
 After Kannada, IndLangs is starting to teach Sanskrit and in the next three months, there will be the option of learning three other Indian languages on the platform. For Prasad, it is the obsession with languages that keeps him going. “Of course the salary in my job was good. But this work gives me more satisfaction,“ he says.
 
