PUNE: A section of the Congress, led by former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan, on Monday strongly objected to the party’s decision to join hands with the NCP in local governing bodies to get majority and stressed it was high time to snap ties with Sharad Pawar’s outfit.

 A source in the Congress said Chavan had communicated his unhappiness to the party high command. According to the source, he told the party top brass that the NCP was playing the role of the BJP’s ‘B’ team and the Congress must not join hands with it. The leaders against the tie-up stressed the party should instead strengthen its own base to avoid further dip in its political fortunes.
 
 The Congress and NCP decided to join hands in panchayats and zilla parishads following a meeting between NCP chief   and state Congress president Ashok Chavan on Sunday. The   (MPCC) president Ashok Chavan said the party had accepted the NCP’s proposal that both the parties should join hands in zilla parishads and panchayats to keep the Sena-BJP out of power. 
 
 Pawar and Chavan met in Nanded to discuss the political situation following the local governing bodies’ polls in the state. 
 
 “In every district, the party having more numbers will have its president in zilla parishad and panchayat. The other party will get the deputy’s post. We have agreed on the formula,” he told reporters in Nanded. 
 
 Rane certain Sena will not come out of govt
 
 Former chief minister and Congress leader   said the   would not withdraw its support from the BJP-led state government. 
 
 “ It is my opinion and I have been saying this for a long. Sena will not step out of the government on its own unless it is kicked out by the BJP,” said Rane.
 
 He said even if opposition parties move a no-confidence motion against the Fadnavis government, it would not be possible to pull it down. 
 
 “ We shall need the Shiv Sena on our side to defeat the government and I don’t think Sena wants it to happen,” said Rane told reporters in Pune.
 
