Lucknow: In the 107 years since it was established,   market had faced clampdown only once and for just two days when Emergency was announced in 1975. After two days, the market reopened but there were strict orders for shops to keep lights off in the evening. The closure of the market for past 11 days at a stretch is something generations of meat sellers have never witnessed. 

 “We’ve hardly seen any customer for the past 10 days as people are scared of buying meat for the fear of getting caught,” said Mohammad Ashfaq, one of the two licence-holders in the market whose shop is open. Ashfaq is son of 88-year-old Hameed Qureshi whose father Lateef Pehelvan established the shop in 1915.
 
 There are 90 vendors in the market selling around 22 quintal mutton daily. But since the strike, the sale of even the sole two licensed meat sellers whose shops are open have not earned as much.
 
 Long before shopping malls came up, Marris Market (named after British governor William Sinclair Marris) was a busy place where people flocked for buying and opposite this hub was the Saunders Market, said 90 year-old Zama Ameer Khan, who has been going there to buy mutton since he was seven years old. “This has been the prominent   of the city since the British period,” said Khan, sharing with TOI memories of the time when Anand Talkies was called Elphinstone and the only landmark in the area. John Prescott Hewett was lieutenant Governor of United Provinces that time. He launched the master plan of roads, including Hewett Road and constructed the market in the name of Charles Saunders, the Bishop of Lucknow at that time. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, historian Roshan Taqui said, in 1912, lieutenant governor Sir James John Digges Latouche, who was the predecessor of Hewett had launched the master plan of Aminabad and Latouche Road and had planned the meat market on land owned by Nawab Hamid Husain Khan.
 
 The road to this market was important as   was directly connected to Cantonment area, where British army had established an administration office. When a British officer arrived at Saunders Market, two policemen would blow the whistle three times to announce his arrival. The British policemen arrived in their spoke-wheeled wagons to buy goat and lamb meat from Indian butchers.
 
 Kaiserbagh resident Sanjay Sonkar said, “We have never seen the meat market closed before the BJP formed government in UP and whether Hindu or Muslim, everyone wants meat.” 
 
 
