HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad HC on Thursday sought a status report from the ECI and its   in Hyderabad on a petition that charged the election authorities with inaction despite serious complaints of enrolment of   in the voters' lists for the ensuing   meant for graduates and teachers.

 Though   of Rayalaseema Development Committee spoke about such bogus votes' enrolment in Chittoor, Anantapur, etc, the problem seemingly prevails in the remaining districts of AP as well as Telangana. Senior counsel   told the court that candidates who are not graduates, and, worse still, those who are not even matriculates, were be ing inducted into the voters' lists as graduates. He told a bench of Acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Shameem Akhter that there are allegations that over10,000 bogus names have been enrolled as voters. “Persons with vested interests are doing this. Election authorities have remained inactive despite written complaints from the petitioner,“ Prasad said.
 
  As per rules, persons who obtained graduation degrees by 2013 are eligible to become voters in the current election. But, there are instances of those who obtained their degrees after 2013, being inducted as voters, he said.Allowing such irregular voters' list to continue will defeat the spirit of the 
 
 Representation of People's Act, he said. When contacted, Anoop Singh, EC's additional chief electoral officer for both AP and Telangana, said that they received some complaints about ineligible persons registering themselves as voters in the graduates'teachers' constituency in Chittoor and Anantapur in AP and Ranga Reddy and Hyderabad districts .
 
 “It has now become easy for people to verify voters' credentials. Everything is put on the website and anyone can point out discrepancies in educational qualifications, etc. We have time till February 20 to rectify any such mistakes. We verified 84 such cases and complaints in Rayalaseema and found that the grievances on ineligible voters were genuine in 45 such cases.We removed those 45 votes from the list,“ Singh said.
 
