Navi Mumbai: The civic body is planning to include 20 measures to reduce the risk of city’s vulnerability in case of any disaster. The Tata Institute of Social Sciences ( ) draft report on Hazard Risk Vulnerability Assessment (HRVA) details these steps.

 The report, submitted recently, describes the city to be running on ‘crisis management mode’ rather than adopting ‘prevention and resilience building mode’.
 
 Several proactive steps have been identified to make the city less vulnerable to disasters. They include coordinated functioning, strengthening the legal and institutional frameworks, making a department responsible for working towards risk reduction, upgrading fire fighting stations, maintaining tree cover and open spaces, cleaning drainage system, clearing wastes dumped into water bodies, preparing a ready reckoner on the possible vulnerabilities, among other measures. 
 
 The institute conducted the research on two broad categories—social and physical vulnerabilities. It also stated that more work needs to done in the area of disaster risk reduction (DDR).
 
 “The study is based on social vulnerability across the ward, node and city levels. Hazards such as flooding, building collapse, landslides are familiar situations. But the factors that make the entire society vulnerable in a disaster situation were relatively unknown. The report delves into those areas,” said additional municipal commissioner Ankush Chavan.
 
 Based on the indicators that sub-divided the vulnerabilities, the report identifies key vulnerable areas such as spatial distribution of vulnerability, jurisdiction issues and settlements under high tension wires. 
 
 “Coordination issues among multiple agencies, such as  , Cidco and MIDC, coupled with chaotic growth of nearby nodes as in Vashi and Belapur and the presence of hutments under high tension wires have been termed as potentially catastrophic in the event of disaster,” said an official. The study has used the 2011 census data and its research indicators to analyse 89 wards and 8 nodes. The report will be finalized after feedback from the administration, said an official.
 
 
