Vadodara: A student outfit on Saturday created quite a stir at MS University head office when it dumped garbage it had collected from university’s girls’ hostel premises outside the chamber of MSU registrar. They were protesting lack of cleanliness in the campus.

 The members of the student outfit – All Gujarat Students Group (AGSG) – earlier in the day had organised a drive to voluntarily clean the garbage at girls’ hostel. 
 
 Later, in the day, to protest against the alleged inaction of university officials in cleaning the campus despite their repeated representations, the student outfit dumped the same garbage that it had collected from hostel premises at the university head office. 
 
 The members of the outfit not only dumped the garbage outside the registrar’s chamber but they also managed to bring a two-wheeler inside the university head office and raise slogans against the vice-chancellor and registrar. 
 
 Ironically, when the student outfit was staging protest, the university’s vigilance staff, was completely absent from the spot. 
 
 Condemning the incident, MSU officials later in the day suspended two student leaders including the running faculty general secretary (FGS) of Faculty of Commerce Kashyap Thakkar and Rakesh Punjabi, who is eyeing the FGS post this year. 
 
 The university was also quick in lodging a FIR at Sayajigunj police station against five student leaders including Thakkar, Punjabi, Pradip Rabari, Vaibhav Thakor and Siddhant Kapoor. 
 
 According to university officials, disciplinary action will be taken against Rabari, Thakor and Kapoor on Monday after investigation. 
 
 All five students have been booked for committing obscene act at a public place, committing nuisance at a public place and for violating motor vehicle act as one of them had drove a two-wheeler till right outside registrar’s office.
 
 After the police was called, Rabari, Thakor and Kapoor fled from the spot while Punjabi and Thakkar were taken away by the cops.
 
 Interestingly, while university officials were quick in registering police complaint and taking action against the student leaders who were staging protest against the alleged inaction of the officialdom, the university officials had not shown such quick action when a student had slapped a young temporary teaching assistant of Faculty of Arts in July. 
 
 Despite representations by teachers’ outfits, the university had dragged its feet in taking action against the errant student. 
 
 Till date, the committee which the university had formed to probe the ‘slapgate’ has not completed its inquiry and neither has the university taken any strong action against the student.
 
 
