IMPHAL: Two Congress MLAs, who had quit the party, joined BJP on Wednesday, a crucial gain for the saffron party ahead of the assembly elections. In addition to Congress MLAs Nemcha Kipgen and Vunzjagin Valte,   president and former   MP Kim Gangte also made the switch to BJP. 

 Nemcha Kipgen, the only tribal woman representative in the 60-member house, and Valte resigned from Congress as well as the assembly on Monday. Kipgen was a representative of the Kangpokpi constituency, the administrative hub of the newly created Kuki-dominated Kangpokpi district, bordering Senapati district. Valte's constituency Thanlon is under the Pherzawl district, which is also newly created, bifurcated from the Kuki-Chin-Mizo-dominated Churachandpur district.
 
 BJP leaders welcomed the trio at the party's Imphal office at a reception programme on Wednesday which BJP national secretary Ram Madhav, North East Democratic Alliance (Neda) convener   and state BJP president Kshetrimayum Bhabananda Singh attended.
 
 Ram Madhav said the party will be strengthened with the entry of the three leaders, adding that BJP will defeat Congress in the assembly election. He hit out at the Congress government in the state, saying that BJP can lift the economic blockade if chief minister   vacates his seat for two days. The United Naga Council-sponsored economic blockade has crippled the state since November 1.
 
 With the entry of the three leaders, at least six legislators from Congress have made the jump to the saffron party in less than three months. The attrition is likely to continue, a source said.
 
 Of the six leaders, Nongthombam Biren Singh, Yumkham Erabot, Naga leader   and Z Kikhonbou Newmai were among BJP's first list of 31 candidates for the assembly polls. The remaining 29 candidates will be announced by the party's central election committee, a party source said. Congress, on the other hand, has said it will announce its first list of candidates by January 31. Also in the fray is the Left Democratic Front of Manipur, an alliance of six opposition parties, which has said it will announce its first candidate list within the next 10 days.
 
