NAGPUR: For the last two months,   (NMC) has been following up on the grant of Rs 80 crore against scrapping of   (LBT) with the state government. However, it has received nothing. As a result, the civic body has failed to disburse salaries to its employees since January. Private contractors executing various works for the civic body too have been kept waiting for payments for many weeks.

 A senior officer from NMC’s accounts and finance department admitted that the civic body has not disbursed salaries to 10,000 staffers since two months. He said NMC’s committed monthly expenditure is Rs80 crore. “Rs 40 crore is required to disburse salaries to all staffers,   and  ,” he explained, claiming arrangements are being made to pay the salaries.
 
 According to NMC data, the government grant of Rs 40 crore a month used to help NMC at least pay salaries of its staff. But since these grants were not released, salaries have been delayed this month.
 
 With worsening financial crisis, the   has decided to yet again pursue the issue with the government. The bad financial crisis only worsened due to decline in revenue after local body tax (LBT) started, and now the state government is not releasing funds promised after banning LBT.
 
 Initially, the government used to pay Rs 30 crore monthly to NMC in lieu of LBT till December 2015. With NMC facing a financial crunch, the government revised the grant and started paying Rs50 crore in first two months of last calendar year. However, in March, the funding was cut to Rs 46 crore, which was reduced further to Rs40.60 crore next month.
 
 “We used to get Rs40.60 crore till December last year. If LBT were in place, the revenue would have been Rs65 crore. However, since January, the civic body hasn’t received the state government grant,” said a senior official. “In January, we had written to the government urging it to release the funds, but in vain. A fresh reminder will be sent again. The NMC revenue has declined and we need funds to carry out development works,” he added.
 
