JAIPUR: At the ‘ratri choupal’ – the village meeting with the district collector on Friday, villagers of Korna, Pachpadra tehsil, in   tried to dissuade the administration from going ahead with the plan to construct a power substation at a spot frequented by  . Villagers said the land serves also as a rich  , and that the region has not seen water scarcity because of this. However, district collector Sudhir Kumar Sharma attempted to convince people that they should not come in the way of development.
 
 In September 2016, Barmer district authorities sought to allot about 400 bighas of land in Korna for a power substation. In revenue records, this land is listed as gauchar land, meant to be kept aside for cattle to graze. This area serves as a catchment area for several large lakes in the vicinity, including the largest in Jodhpur division, Gangawas. Several migratory birds rest in the trees in this area. The Sarus crane and a large number of migratory and resident birds, including flamingoes, can be spotted here in winter.
  
 On November 9, the gram panchayat of Mulki Dhani wrote to district authorities, with an elaborate explanation for why the substation could shift elsewhere, to barren land. “Korna’s Khasra number 27 is gauchar land. The 400 bighas to be allotted to the substation would ruin a rich catchment area for some of the largest lakes in Jodhpur division, including Gangawas. Over 9,000 cattle from 24 villages in the vicinity are dependent on the water bodies that are recharged because of this land; wild animals too are sighted in this area. A large number of migratory birds flock here. The substation could be located at a spot where it would cause much less disturbance,” the villagers wrote.
 
 Guman Singh Rathod, sarpanch of Korna village, writes in the “Format for public consultation” that the villagers’ opinion was never sought before Rajasthan Vidyut Prasaran Nigam (RVPN) Limited decided on the utilization of this land. “After the matter was finalized, the sarpanch was informed. We refused to allow the project here and asked that the substation be located elsewhere,” he notes. He says that the area does not see water shortage even in summer, thanks to this land. In the column on employment opportunities that the ‘development project’ would provide, the villagers touchingly write that there is sufficient work available under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act.
  
 Sohan Singh, a resident of Korna, told TOI, “We got to know of this proposal only when the collector sought a no-objection certificate from the panchayat. We went in a delegation and met energy minister Pushpendra Singh. We have also informed our MLA Amra Ram about our opposition to the proposed project in land on which we are dependent for water. We have been assured help but we don’t know for sure if the project will be moved elsewhere.” Kuldeep Singh, another resident who attended Friday’s ratri choupal, said, “We cannot understand why the administration cannot find another spot for the substation.”
  
 Environmentalist Harsh Vardhan said, “On the one hand, Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje speaks of water harvesting; on the other, the state machinery attempts to do away with natural sites that recharge rain water.” District collector Sudhir Sharma did not answer his mobile phone. Concerned citizens have taken the matter to the National Green Tribunal, which has listed it for hearing on January 25.
 
 
