LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party and Congress concluded their tense negotiations on Sunday — with the former 
  and meeting the latter’s “three-figure” benchmark — to seal a seat-sharing pact for the 
  that begin on February 11. 

 UP chief minister Ahkilesh Yadav called   in the morning to make the offer, signalling a successful denouement of the protracted negotiations that saw both sides pushing the other hard before SP gave in. 
 
 The SP will now contest 298 seats out the total 403. The CM’s decision to call Priyanka was more proof of the central role played by Rahul Gandhi’s sister in recent events. It indicated 
  and may signal a more public profile in the coming months, opening the possibility of her contesting the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. 
 
 As negotiations seemed to have run into a wall after Akhilesh announced more than 200 candidates earlier this week, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi stepped into the frame to bring about a rapprochement. Priyanka, according to sources, continued to be central to the talks. In the end, Congress’s tough stance on getting more than 100 seats paid off as SP blinked. SP is expected to withdraw nominations that it had announced in the Gandhi pocket boroughs and the two sides will identify seats that are to be set aside for the other.   and Akhilesh are expected to campaign together.
 
 Wresting 100-plus seats to contest in will be seen as a major success for Congress that could not expect more than half that number going by past performance. But the SP offer indicates that the Akhilesh camp is not prepared to face the elections on its own after a bruising internal fight for supremacy. 
 
 The alliance with Congress is seen as necessary to emphasise that SP is the main “secular” challenger to an apparently resurgent BJP. The alliance helps SP claim enhanced credentials to check BJP, compared to Mayawati’s BSP which is also eyeing the Muslim vote. 
 
 With disgruntled SP factions such as those led by Akhilesh’s uncle Shivpal likely to create hurdles, an alliance with Congress can reassure SP’s Yadav-Muslim base and mop up votes that might might have splintered. 
 
 The partners feel the alliance will pull in the youth and with the possible consolidation of Muslims, could net 40% vote share based on their performance in 2012. The UP race is now clearly a three-cornered one with small players like Ajit Singh’s RLD and other local outfits at serious risk of being crowded out. The Congress-SP alliance was announced by the state chiefs of the two parties — Naresh Uttam of SP and Raj Babbar of Congress. 
 
 Political analysts say the alliance will ensure mutual gains for the two parties. “Apart from the combined vote share, the two parties will also get the benefit of each other’s vote bank and cadre strength,” an analyst said. Moreover, three prominent faces of the alliance —  , Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra — are seen to be appealing to the youth.
 
