AHMEDABAD: A controversy erupted after reports emerged on Monday that Gujarat deputy chief minister  's son, Jaimin Patel, had been stopped from boarding a Qatar Airways flight to   earlier that day because he had been allegedly “highly inebriated”. 

 Jaimin Patel, a land dealer, along with his wife and daughter took the airline’s Tuesday flight to Greece, leaving his father to face political barbs. A senior   leader, Shaktisinh Gohil, alleged that the deputy CM’s son had created a ruckus at the airport and had argued with the airline staff after consuming liquor. “This is in violation of the prohibition law in the state and legal action must be initiated,” Gohil said. “It is unfortunate that the government has not even registered an offence yet. Police should seize   footage and take action.”
 
 Nitin Patel, however, continued to vehemently deny the reports, calling them “totally baseless”.
 
 He said: “The message doing the rounds on social media is totally false.” He said his son had taken ill when he reached the airport. “He began vomiting and his wife called us. It was decided that they should come back home," he said.
 
 "The reports are totally misleading. This is a vicious attempt by my opponents to tarnish my image," he said.
 
 There is no official word on the incident from either the police or airport authorities. But a source at the   said, "Jaimin, his wife, and their daughter were heading towards the plane when a Qatar Airways employee observed that Jaimin was so heavily drunk that he was unable to walk.” He was deemed unfit for travel, the source said. “Jaimin then tried to create a scene but the situation was salvaged by his wife,” the source said.
 
 “On Tuesday morning, the airlines gave Jaimin and his family a refund for their tickets of the previous flight and they left for Greece by the 4 am flight," the source said. The local airport manager of Qatar Airways, Amit Dhiman, could not be contacted for comment. Police said they had received no complaint from the airline. Airport director Manoj Gangal said he did not know anything about the incident.
 
