NEW DELHI: The Delhi   has come to the aid of a distraught wife forced to take care of her minor son for several years.

 On March 8, International Women’s Day, Justice Manmohan packed off her estranged husband, Deven, to   for two months, furious at the way he ignored repeated court orders to pay a monthly interim   to his wife and son. The husband claimed he had no means to pay.
 
 HC took a serious view of the matter and in a rare direction, decided to invoke contempt of court powers to punish the husband by way of a jail term, when he failed to comply with the court’s orders.
 
 Appearing for the wife, senior advocate Geeta Luthra highlighted that the husband consistently flouted not just the high court but even the Supreme Court’s direction to pay a reduced amount as maintenance.
 
 While the high court had in 2010 ordered Deven to pay interim maintenance of Rs 1,50,000 per month, the Supreme Court reduced it last year to Rs 1 lakh, taking into account the fact that wife is residing in the main house.
 
 The wife informed the court that Deven had not paid anything to her leaving her alone to bring up the minor son and to support him.
 
 “That the contemnor is well equipped with all the luxurious amenities in his life and has intentionally denied the petitioner and her minor son with basic amenities of life till date. That he is a man of means and enjoying a lavish lifestyle and he played a fraud upon the court by creating a facade of being disowned by his parents,” the wife said in her plea seeking contempt of court directions.
 
 HC agreed with the wife’s argument that the husband required no further leniency as he abused the process of law on numerous occasions and failed to pay the pending arrears, calculated at Rs 67 lakhs by the wife, as interim maintenance in accordance with the order passed by the court.
 
 While the wife did seek contempt, she urged the court to ensure that the husband must pay monthly maintenance and also clear pending arrears immediately, rather than dilly dally payment on one or the other pretext.
 
 However when the husband claimed he had no means to pay, the high court decided to haul him up for contempt.
 
 
