HYDERABAD: On a day of hectic parleys and high-voltage political drama, Telangana Rashtra Samithi lawmakers eventually saved chief minister  's much-publicized Delhi trip after the Prime Minister's Office initially nixed the proposed meeting with  .

 The sudden late-night communication from PMO, cancelling the proposed audience with KCR-led all-party delegation sent shock waves in political circles on Sunday.
 
 Angered by the treatment meted out to him, despite backing demonetization, the chief minister decided to call off his New Delhi tour and accordingly the CM's public relations wing even issu ed a release la te night.
 
 TRS MPs in New Delhi im mediately con veyed the chief minister's dis appointment to top BJP lea ders, on Sun day, to pacify the already redfaced KCR.
 
 Two key leaders of BJP then spoke to KCR and explained to him the delicate political dynamics they are facing in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Classification of Scheduled Caste, which was on KCR's agenda, would become a political hot potato in poll-bound state and hit BJP's chances, they explained to KCR.
 
 Sources said, BJP leaders conveyed that Modi was avoiding meeting big delegations over contentious issues, especially in run-up to polls in some states. Instead, they promised KCR a one-on-one with the Prime Minister and an all-party meeting after March 8, once the final phase of election in Uttar Pradesh is over.
 
 To placate KCR, the BJP leadership also assured favourable announcements for Telangana from finance minister Arun Jaitley during the budget session.
 
 The day-long negotiations ended in positive note with KCR agreeing to visit Delhi and meet several Union ministers. The CMO confirmed that KCR is leaving by 8pm for New Delhi on Sunday . Speaking to TOI, TRS MP B Vinod said, “There will be a meeting with Prime Minister Modi, for which time and date is not yet confirmed. Our chief minister will be meeting President   and home minister Rajnath Singh. The President will be invited for the centenary celebrations of   by the CM.“
 
 As per revised schedule, the chief minister will stay put for three days from February 6-8 in Delhi, meeting half a dozen Union ministers and Niti Aayog chief.
 
 Chief minister KCR also made it clear that some of his demands must be accepted and incorporated in the budget. Finance minister Arun Jaitley will make an announcement on the reorganization promises made to Telangana soon. KCR will now meet environment minister Prakash Javdekar to seek clearances for power projects in the state, including Yadadri and Bhadradri thermal power projects.
 
