NAGPUR: Twenty-nine-year-old lawyer Sanjay Pimpale was stabbed in the stomach with a sharp knife by his 20-year-old client Shweta Keljharkar’s estranged husband who, along with his unidentified accomplice, barged into Pimpale’s residence in Chakrapani Nagar on late Sunday night. The accused, Suraj Keljharkar (23), who had covered his face with a scarf and worn a heavy jacket to mask his identity, also attacked the lawyer’s six-month   Ashwini (26) as she tried to intervene. The couple’s 4-year-old daughter, Piyu, was also present at the scene.

 Family members rushed downstairs as they heard Ashwini’s screams and grabbed Suraj from behind. However, his accomplice fled on the bike. Neighbours informed Hudkeshwar police who nabbed Suraj, a resident of Umrer, and registered an offence of attempt to murder and trespass against him. 
 
 The family members claimed they didn’t get cooperation from the police as they couldn’t arrange an ambulance to shift the injured couple to the hospital. The bleeding victims were taken to the hospital on two-wheelers. Sanjay is undergoing the medical treatment at   and Ashwini got discharged from a private hospital on Monday morning.
 
 After having dinner, Sanjay, Ashwini and Piyu went to their room, which was on the ground floor, and closed the door. “Meanwhile, I heard footsteps inside the compound wall. Suddenly, someone started knocking the door repeatedly,” Sanjay told TOI. Sanjay didn’t open the door and tried to see who it was. Suraj, a supervisor in a private company, changed his voice, gave a fake name and asked for help, which led Sanjay to unbolt the door.
 
 As soon as Suraj saw him, he barged into the residence and started stabbing Sanjay indiscriminately. Ashwini, keeping her wits about herself, and pulled Suraj’s hair from behind to drag him away from her husband. But Suraj attacked her as well and Ashwini screamed out in pain. Sanjay said he could recognize Suraj because of his voice.
 
 Sanjay’s elder brother Sunil rushed to the room and held Suraj’s hand from behind just as he was about to stab Sanjay in the chest. Neighbours told TOI that the assailants had kept a watch on the Pimpales’ whereabouts for a day.
 
 
