KOLKATA: When   and his boys were striding steadily towards victory against Bangladesh in Hyderabad recently, another bunch of cricketers in Bengaluru brought glory to the country by trouncing Pakistan by nine wickets in the T20 World Cup for the blind. And one man who witnessed the boys create history from close quarters was Chinmoy Mondal, Bengal’s only link to the Cup.

 “It is not only a victory for the visually impaired, but an honour for the entire country,” said Mondal, 30, who was the officiating match referee in five matches in the tournament. He has played in and led the state’s cricket team for the visually impaired in the past. Mondal, who has only 25% vision, played for the state till 2012, after which he became the eastern zone secretary of the Cricket Association for Blind in India. 
 
 Was it difficult to officiate as match referee with limited vision? “Not at all. The most important aspect is to know the rules, which I feel I know well. I also relied on my partial vision to sense if the game was being played in the right spirit,” he said. “We do not have any incidents of ball tampering, which makes the job of a match referee relatively easy.”
 
 Mondal’s is an example of a visually impaired cricketer who has been able to pursue both academics and sport with equal success. He was, self admittedly, a very “naughty child” who could not be kept inside class beyond a point. But he went on to complete his Masters’ from   and started working in a school in Jhargram. “I would be in the playground by 4pm and play to my heart’s content. When I moved to Kolkata for higher studies, I kept playing regularly,” he said.. 
 
 Mondal’s positive attitude is evident from the fact that he never cribs about the disadvantage that the lack of vision brings. “People are very sensitive. The players travelled by air and stayed in star hotels. Yes, there was hardly any awareness about the entire tournament, but that did not demotivate the boys. That they were representing their country was motivation enough,” the referee said. 
 
 Among contemporary players, Mondal worships   and  . “Besides being great cricketers, they have something else in common. Both of them are silent warriors who never let their focus veer from their goals,” said Mondal. Well, that makes the three of them.
 
