After Mukul Roy, is Bengal’s IT minister Bratya Basu also thinking of changing his political jersey?

 That is the speculation doing the rounds ever since a play penned by Basu was published in the Sharodiya issue of ‘Jago Bangla’. The play is called ‘Ekdin Aladin’. It starts off with a reference to a character called Madhab Marik who takes the oath as the Prime Minister. In the background, oblique references made to this character uses words like ‘gunda’, ‘liar’, ‘cheat’, ‘fraud’ and ‘rioter’. But it is the next part of the play that has caused the controversy. This segment has references to the flourishing syndicate Raj. The fact that a play, penned by a minister, has touched upon such an issue is making eyes roll.
 
 When TOI got in touch with Basu regarding this controversy, he said, “In my first directorial venture titled ‘Rasta’, I had taken up the issue of syndicate,” he said. However, there is a big difference between Bratya Basu of 2003 who referred to the syndicate issue in his Mithun Chakraborty and Raghuvir Yadav-starrer and the minister of today writing on the same issue in ‘Ekdin Aladin’. “Politically, I have a label now. But creatively, I am the same person. When I am writing, it is my creative self at work. That is beyond politics,” Basu said.
 
 On being told that he must be aware of the repercussion such a play will have at a time when the political arena is talking about Roy’s exit from Trinamool Congress, Basu said, “Had my play been critical of the current dispensation, it wouldn’t have been published in ‘Jago Bangla’. My play is a political fantasy. I have neither mentioned Bengal nor have I have mentioned any timeline in this play. I have not even written anything in favour or against the syndicate issue. I have just stated some facts,” he clarified.
 
 Naysayers however claim that such a play can also be an index of Basu’s dissatisfaction since he doesn’t get as much of prominence as he would have liked to enjoy. Despite his passion for films and theatre, the minister is largely kept out of any committees involved in organising cultural festivals. However, Basu refused to give any importance to such speculation. “I have not changed my political ideology. I am committed to Trinamool Congress,” Basu said.
 
