KANPUR: The sun rose for   at the Green Park stadium here on Saturday evening, as they roared past   to enter the   playoffs.

 After Gujarat posted a modest target of 155 runs, Hyderabad got to the target losing just two wickets with 11 deliveries to spare. For them, skipper   and   remained unbeaten on 69 and 63 runs respectively.
 
 The eight-wicket win ensured that Hyderabad finished the league engagements with 17 points.
 
 Hyderabad braved some initial resistance after they won the toss and elected to field, with the two Gujarat openers -   and Ishan Kishan - stringing a partnership of 111 runs off 10.5 overs. Both Smith and Kishan tore apart the attack to make life difficult for the Hyderabad bowlers. Smith used his pick-up shots with confidence to club two sixes and seven boundaries during his knock of 33-ball 54, while Kishan pulled and cut to perfection to smash 61 runs off 40 deliveries which contained five hits to the fence and four over them.
 
 Hyderabad got back into the game as the Lions' batting then suddenly collapsed. Smith was trapped in front of the wicket by Rashid Khan and Kishan gave an edge behind off the bowling of Mohammed Siraj. It went downhill for the Lions from there. Medium-pacer Siraj led the bowling with four scalps, while Rashid chipped in with three.
 
 Much was expected of skipper Suresh Raina, Dinesh Karthik and the dangerous Aaron Finch. But the trio disappointed the fans. Raina failed to clear the square-leg fielder off Siraj, Karthik hit a juicy full-toss from Rashid to mid-wicket and Finch failed to read a Rashid googly and was castled.
 
 The Hyderabad run-chase didn't start smoothly as their inform opener Shikhar Dhawan and Moises Henriques left early. Still, the Gujarat total wasn't much to trouble the visitors as Warner and Shankar capitalized on the thin bowling attack to pull it off with much to spare.
 
 Beginning cautiously, Warner proved why he is one of the most feared batsmen in the tournament. He started cautiously, and then began dominating the bowlers with his powerful drives and lofted shots to find the fence nine times during his 52-ball stay at the wicket. The orange cap (for highest runs in the tournament) sits snugly on the head of the Australian now -he has so far scored 604 runs this season. For the Lions, there were few takeaways apart from Suresh Raina who scored over 400 runs in the season as the side struggled with injuries.
 
 The unheralded Shankar was also in fine touch, clipping the bowlers off his pads and driving nicely to collect nine boundaries during his 44-ball knock.
 
 Earlier, Hyderabad brought in Deepak Hooda in place of an injured Yuvraj Singh, and the Gujarat team, who now finish their two-year journey in the competition, replaced Dhawal Kulkarni and Basil Thampi with Praveen Kumar and Munaf Patel.
 
