MYSURU: When the civic body removed   across   in May 2015, it aimed at regulating advertisements to bring revenue to the exchequer. 

  After two years, the situation has become worse as the   is yet to take a call on the issue. This has resulted in more illegal hoardings springing up especially near intersections, bus shelters, public places and important landmarks. 
 
  Officials have no say in this matter as few advertisers had approached courts against civic body's decision to stop giving permission or renewing licence for display of advertisements. 
 
  Around 40 advertisers had knocked on the doors of a city court that had asked the civic agency to maintain status quo. But in the absence of a system to check illegal advertising, more ad boards have come up across Mysuru after the court's directive, an official admitted. One side of direction boards that were sold for ad revenue early by MCC too, is being continued to be used by the 'illegal' advertisers without paying any money to the civic body. 
 
  There was no reference of advertisement revenue in the budget 2017-18. Corporator Srikantaiah had censured officers for not making any efforts to get revenue from advertisements that could help the civic agency in providing service to the public. The corporator suggested officials to quickly take a decision and identify zones for display of advertisements. 
 
  The MCC had stopped giving permission after March 2015 and then subsequently, it carried out special drives to remove hoardings across Mysuru aiming to curb visual pollution. It had also warned business establishments, individuals and cinema hall owners from affixing publicity materials at public places, on electricity poles, compound walls, avenue trees, barricades, traffic sign boards and on any vehicles. It had also threatened to book cases against wrongdoers for violation of provisions of   Municipal Act 1976 and Karnataka open places (Prevention of disfigurement) Act 1981. 
 
  A revenue section official on condition of anonymity told TOI that a new bylaw has been framed to regulate advertisements in Mysuru city. It will be discussed before a standing committee before bringing the council for support. Later, it will be sent for government's approval. The official admitted that there is no system to regulate advertisement hoardings which has led to increase in ad boards resulting in loss of revenue. 
 
  Once the bylaw is approved, all illegal boards will be removed and a new system for display of commercial advertisements will be introduced. We had planned to create separate zones for display of advertisements of different categories and of different dimension, the official said. 
 
 
