PHOPHSANDI (AHMEDNAGAR): Prime Minister  's idea of a cashless economy and mobile banking has caught the fancy of youths in this village, but they need electricity, good cellphones, better connectivity and jobs to join the digital India bandwagon. 

 The youths who walk 4km to a nearby hillock to get cellphone connectivity are aware of the demonetisation decision. But septuagenarian   and others in the village are struggling to understand why currency has gone missing. Others speak about their struggle for basic infrastructure.
 
 Welcome to Phophsandi, a remote village in Akole taluka of Ahmednagar district. Surrounded by mountains, Phophsandi wakes up late and sleeps early. The mountains hinder the sunrays till 10am and darkness envelops the village, known as andharatil gaon ('village in darkness') in the region, by 6pm even during the summer months. Residents have an interesting story to tell about the name of this village, around 300km from Pune.
 
 During British rule, an officer called Pop used to come here every Sunday to spend time in nature.
 
 The spot was then known as “Pop Sunday“. When the tribal community made this place their home, they started calling it Phophsandi.
 
 “We have a very short day as we get sunrays for very few hours.Darkness covers most part of our lives,“ says Sundarabai, who stumbles when asked about demonetisation.
 
 “Sarkar (the government) has done something to money. All of a sudden, our men who go to work as labourers in nearby towns have started saying that their maliks are not paying them because banks have no money ,“ she says.
 
 Ask her about how demonetisation has affected their lives and she replies, “It will affect those who have money. We were always cashless.“
 
 The Mahadev Koli adivasis here live scattered along the mountains of Akole and are finding it difficult to get daily wage work in nearby towns after demonetisation.
 
 As Sundarabai talks about money and poverty, her daughter-in-law, Kamal, intervenes.
 
 “Everything is less and late here, be it sunrays or money. Just a couple of years ago we got a road, but only one bus plies on it. Even that comes irregularly. The bus arrives late in the night and leaves early morning.After that we have no transport. There is no hospital and no cellphone connectivity. And what is this cashless economy you are talking about?“ asks Kamal.
 
 Young Datta Umbre standing near the hut joins the conversation.“Nobody is happy. Life here is stuck in darkness,“ he says.
 
 Datta is trying to bring a change, at least in his own life. He is studying mechanical diploma in Sinnar town and is in the village for Christmas vacations.
 
 “I know about the government's decision. Prime Minister Modi sahib has taken a good decision to punish people with black money . He has promised that this money will be used for the development of people like us. We are ready to go cashless if the government provides us cellphone connectivity, continuous electricity and most importantly, some jobs, so that we have some money in the accounts to withdraw. We are completely disconnected from the world. Every time I have to speak to my friend, I have to walk there (for connectivity),“ he says, pointing towards a hillock.
 
 He shows his old cellphone handset. Only a few youths have them. Others depend on a BSNL coin box.
 
 The BSNL had earlier set up an antenna and a coin box, which has stopped working for months now. The antenna is being used to dry washed clothes. As they speak in chorus, Rohidas Dhindale, a primary school teacher, opens a door of a classroom, wherein students from Class I to VII are cramped inside. “Soon, there will be a new building for the school. Till then, I shall teach students of all the classes in one room,“ he says. He asks children to go and play and comes to hear what the villagers are talking about. “Life in Phophsandi is slow. Some houses have dish TV antennas, which work sometimes. The nearest bank and hospital are 40km away and there is only one way to get there -walk for 15-20km and wait for private transport. During emergency , prayers are the only way to handle the situation,“ says Dhindale.
 
 He is ready for a cashless economy, though. “If the government says, we have to follow. We can't go against the government,“ he says.
 
 Ask him how he can go cashless, and he has no answer.
 
  comes gasping from her field and is keen to know what is happening. Sundarabai has called her, saying “city people“ have come to talk about money .
 
 “We are used to living this way. Nobody is bothered about us. The government has scrapped big notes.But for us, big notes are a big dream.We have hardly seen Rs 1,000 notes and there is no possibility of handling new Rs 2,000 notes because we don't earn that much,“ says Anusaya, adding that there is no electricity for four-five months during the monsoon and even otherwise, the power supply is erratic.
 
 “Whatever happens in the outer world hardly affects the life here. Even demonetisation had not much impact as many people have nothing to do with banks and there is no question of returning Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes. A couple of people might have done this,“ says Sharada Shelke, the superintendent of a newly started   for students in nearby hamlets.
 
 Sundarabai, Anusaya and others get up as they have to finish daily chores before it gets dark. Datta has to start his walk for cellphone connectivity to speak to his friends.
 
 It's 5 pm. Darkness starts descending on Phophsandi even as the sun continues to shine elsewhere.
 
