AHMEDABAD: A 77-year-old retired cop will have to go to jail to serve a life term. Thirty years after he strangled to death an accused in a police lock-up, then police inspector S   has been held guilty by the Gujarat high court.

 While the HC found Shastri guilty of murder and quashed the trial court’s 1993 order of acquittal, it upheld the exoneration of Shastri’s subordinate, Ganpatlal Kadel.
 
 In this case, Kodinar police in Amreli district arrested two brothers – Hana Sidi and   on July 13, 1987 on murder charges and secured their police remand for four days. Apprehensive of custodial torture, the brothers requested medical tests before their custodial interrogation began. They were declared hale and hearty by a local hospital. Two days later, Hana was found dead in the police station. His postmortem report revealed that he had died due to strangulation.
 
 Shastri and Kadel were charged with murder and destruction of evidence, because 16 pages of the police station diary had gone missing. When the trial began, the cops argued that Hana had strangled himself by his own hand. They also claimed that he had hanged himself by his janeu (sacremental thread).
 
 The trial court acquitted both the cops and castigated the doctor, who conducted the postmortem and insisted that it was a homicidal death and not suicide as the accused were trying to assert. 
 
 The state government challenged the acquittal of both the cops. The HC took up the case nearly 23 years later. Sifting through the evidence, a bench of Justice   and Justice   came to a conclusion that Shastri was responsible for the  .
 
 On the reluctant and interested witnesses in this case, the HC said, “What happened in the dark, dingy remand room will have to be gathered by putting together the pieces of evidence. The majority of witnesses will be police persons from the same police station who would have direct or indirect reason and therefore the temptation to hold back the full truth… We have to use every piece of useful evidence to judge the involvement of the accused.”
 
 Shastri has been granted time till February 28 to surrender.
 
