GURGAON: Two alternative roads in Gurgaon connecting   with Delhi could become operational this year, with Huda looking to expedite these projects in a bid to decongest the already overburdened NH-8.

 Until the Delhi portion of Dwarka expressway gets completed, and it may take years, the urban development body has decided to connect Bajghera in Gurgaon to Bijwasan in Delhi, for motorists’ convenience. It has chalked out another alternative route from sectors 106-109 to Najafgarh Road, which further connects to Dwarka.
 
 Land acquisition to build the Delhi portion of Dwarka expressway has just begun. Meanwhile, the Haryana government has already almost completed the Gurgaon portion of the e-way and is keen on making this road operational at the earliest to provide alternative connectivity towards Delhi and reduce traffic on NH-8.
 
 “Legal obstacles have slowed down the progress on NPR, but we are hopeful of overcoming the hurdle and complete the Gurgaon portion of the road at the earliest. But the road cannot be made operational without the Delhi portion of the stretch getting ready, which will take many years to complete. Therefore, we have identified two alternative roads,” said a senior Huda official. “These two routes can be made operational without much hassle as the sector roads in these areas are already built,” he added.
 
 The Gurgaon portion of the 27-km Dwarka expressway is around 18km long, while the remaining 9km of the highway falls in Delhi. 
 
 Huda administrator   said officials have inspected the area and identified the routes for alternative connectivity from the e-way to Delhi. “The road from Bajghera, near New Palam Vihar where Dwarka expressway in Gurgaon ends, to Bijwasan stretches to around 4.5km,” said Yadav, adding that the dividing road of sectors 106-109 will also be connected with Najafgarh Road that heads towards Dwarka.
 
 In March 2016, Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari had accorded national highway status to Dwarka e-way, which means that Huda will have to hand over the expressway to the National Highways Authority of India after clearing all obstacles, including rehabilitation of the oustees in New Palam Vihar and Kherki Daula.
 
 A large number of people, who had invested in several real estate projects developed along this highway, will be benefited once it is operational. 
 
 
