BENGALURU: There is a 26% increase in the number of PU colleges in Karnataka in the past five years. The situation is not all hunky-dory as the numbers have thrown up worrisome trends. According to the department of PU education, as on January 1, 2017, Karnataka has 5,004 PU colleges, up from 3,949 in 2012.

 Stakeholders said the increase is lopsided. There are 2,828 private unaided PU colleges, 1,204 government colleges, 797 aided colleges, 162 bifurcated colleges and 13 BBMP colleges.The corresponding numbers in 2012 were 1,933, 1,202, 636, 165 and 13.
 
 While the increase in private unaided PU colleges has been phenomenal, it is almost nil in the case of government institutions. “The government has permitted about 1,700 private colleges to open in the name of liberalization. The student strength in government PU colleges continues to suffer because of this,“ KR Manjunath, secretary , Karnataka State PU College Principals' Association, said. In a report submitted to the govern ment on the proliferation of private unaided PU colleges, Manjunath pointed out that the process of seeking permission to open new PU colleges is, perhaps, flawed. “It has become easy to seek permission for opening a new PU college,“ he has said. “These days, colleges are opening up in commercial complexes, dilapidated buildings and with smaller classrooms as well,“ the report has added.
 
 “Many of the new-age PU colleges with integrated approach have become a trend -money-making centres. They run for nearly 10-12 hours with a lot of pressure on students.This is not quality education,“ the report said, adding: “The fees to these institutions are extremely high and discriminate those students who can't afford the kind of education.“
 
 The shift in emphasis towards private unaided PU colleges comes against the backdrop of government institutions wallowing in apathy .There are government PU colleges without lecturers and laboratories in Bengaluru as also institutions that are operating in shifts as they have to share infrastructure like buildings with high-schools and others.
 
 According to Manjunath's report, a number of government run PU colleges are bound to shut down because of low strength. The report has asked the department to strictly begin curbing the number of private PU institutions from opening and stabilize or improve the conditions of government run institutions.
 
 C Shikha, director,  , told TOI, “ As per our rules, every institution which has the right kind of infrastructure and furnishes all required information has the right to receive permission. From our end, we are mapping the institutions to check on them from time to time.“
 
 “But we cannot curb new PU colleges from opening up just because we need our government institutions to run as well. Students are a priority and if they are being given quality education, there is nothing wrong in it,“ she added.
 
 
 
 
 As per a report compiled by the PU Principals' Association, Northern Karnataka districts have seen a record growth in the number of private, unaided PU colleges. Bidar has 114 private colleges compared to 24 government ones, Gulbarga stands at 180 private and 45 government PU colleges, Vijayapura sees 135 private while 30 of them are government PU institutions.
 
 However, government PU colleges are still more than private unaided ones in Chikkamagaluru (40 government and 31 private) and Uttara Kannada (37 government and 30 private) districts.
 
 In  , out of 439 colleges, 353 of them are private as against 20 government colleges and in Bangalore North, out of 333 colleges, 271 are private compared to just 13 government colleges.
 
 
 
 
 Although a spurt in educational institutions is certainly good news, the sense of trepidation among experts over the spike in PU colleges in the state appears justified. Worryingly, the number of government colleges has not increased which indicates that students from underprivileged sections of the society are not benefiting from the sudden proliferation of PU colleges. Opening and running of educational institutions needs to be strictly regulated by the government. Concerns raised by experts regarding the ease of obtaining permission to open such institutions, besides the lack of necessary infrastructure, need to be looked into lest education turn into a money-spinning racket.
 
