Ahmedabad: A doctor from   town in Sabarkantha district of north   deposed before the special investigation team (SIT) court on Monday that the key accused in the   case,  , was admitted to his hospital on February 28, 2002, the day of the massacre.

 Dr Manilal Patel, during his examination-in-chief, said that one   Patel brought Babubhai Rajabhai Patel alias Babu Bajrangi to his hospital at 3.45pm on February 28, 2002. Bajrangi was examined by him and then admitted to his hospital in Khedbrahma at 4.35pm. He remained in the hospital as an in patient till his discharge on the morning of March 1, 2002.
 
 During his cross-examination, the doctor said the original case papers pertaining to Bajrangi’s hospitalization are not available because his hospital only preserves documents for 10 years. He also admitted that there were documents signed by the the indoor patient.
 
 In order to establish that Bajrangi was not in the Naroda area during the time of violence, the accused earlier called a witnesss, Vasrambhai Patel, who on May 1 told the special court that Bajrangi had come to his village, Derol Kampa, near Khedbrahma. Bajrangi had accompanied him when he was returning from   with the body of his nephew Bhimjibhai Karsanbhai Patel. Bhimjibhai had died in the   carnage.
 
 Vasrambhai’s relative Dhanjibhai also deposed before the court on May 11. He told the court that during Bhimjibhai’s funeral, Bajrangi developed chest pain and was hospitalized in Khedbrahma town.
 
 The defence counsel examined two more witnesses on Monday. Dinesh Govindbhai Patel told the court that the accused Jagdishbhai Chimanbhai was with him from 9am to 1pm and 4pm to 6pm on February 28, 2002. He also said that the accused had an issue with key witness in the case, Nannumiya Malek with regard to his work.
 
 Another witness in Rekhaben Jadav came to the defence of accused Girish Hargovanbhai, who is her neighbour in Naroda. She told the court that Girish was not well and she along with his wife, Shilpaben, were attending him. She said Girish was at his home on the day of the massacre and remained ill for a couple of days. In her cross-examination, she said that Girish’s father was a doctor and he had not gone to his clinic for treatment.
 
 Eleven persons were killed in the Naroda Gam massacre and more than 80 persons are facing trial.
 
 
