TIRUVANNAMALAI: Residents of   colony on Tuesday demanded that senior police officers take stern action against the special sub-inspector of police (SSI) attached to Cheyyar station for failing to act promptly to prevent the riot that claimed the life of a 33-year-old   and left several with critical injuries. The riot was fallout of a fight over a love affair involving a dalit youngster and   youngster and a girl.

 The dalits claimed that the minor clash snowballed into a riot because the SSI Jothi failed to take necessary action to prevent it. “We demand that the police department suspend the SSI for not acting properly. If he would have taken appropriate action against the Vanniyar youth (Rajesh) and summoned his parents and village elders to calm down the situation, the problem would have died down. But he let the boy go. Before leaving the station, he threatened us that he will show what he can do to us,” said a resident of Puliyarampakkam.
 
 Within hours, Rajesh, his friends and neighbours, armed with weapons, ransacked the colony. They attacked youngsters and elders of the colony and injured several people. They also abducted Venkatesan and his brother Kesavan, 24, in a two-wheeler, thrashed them and dumped them at Maankal Junction. Locals shifted the siblings to the government hospital in Kancheepuram. Venkatesan was referred to Chengalpet government hospital and was later shifted to the   in Chennai. He succumbed to the injuries at 3am on Monday. 
 
 The Dalits also demanded compensation for Venkatesan’s family and immediate arrest of his murderers. They also demanded compensation for the victims of the riot, as property and vehicles of several people in the colony were damaged in the clash.
 
 Police invoked sections 147, 148, 294 (b), 323, 324, 307, 302, 506 (II) and 3 of PPD Act read with 3 (1) (c), 3 (1) (r) and 3 (1) (t) of Scheduled Caste/Schedule Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 2015 against 32 persons, including juveniles. They have arrested 11 people so far and have launched search for others, said a senior police officer.
 
 The officer further said the postmortem of Venkatesan was over. “Soon, his body would be handed over to his family members. We are taking all precaution measures to keep the things under control,” the officer added.
 
 Police have been searching Chellaperumpulimedu since Monday and have confiscated motorbikes. Men deserted the village fearing arrest and went to their relatives’ houses, police said.
 
