NEW DELHI: The Congress war room is abuzz with frenetic activity these days. The fate of 10,448 ticket-seekers is being decided with the help of latest technology as only 272 will get to contest the municipal polls in April.

 The shortlisting process is partially automated with little room for manipulation as the party doesn't want to lose for the third consecutive time, like it did in 2007 and 2012. A candidate's application is knocked out if any lapses are found during the scrutiny process, which is being done by professionals and volunteers to ensure fairness.
 
 Every morning at 9am, around 20 professionals from different backgrounds, some of whom have worked with the party in the past, arrive in the war room and go through the list of candidates uploaded ward-wise. “We call all references named by the ticket-seekers in their application to decide if they have genuinely worked for the party ,“ said Tushita Sharma, a   graduate working there.
 
 If some candidates have the same references, the one with the highest number of recommendations is shortlisted.
 
 The volunteers with   (DPCC), almost 70% being wo men, work till 7pm every day and make around 7,000 verification calls collectively . They have created a database with phone numbers of 94,000 booth-level workers from the 2 lakh named as references by the aspiring candidates.
 
 The ticket-seekers had submitted their bio-data, including names and phone numbers of five booth-level Congress workers, in pen drives between February 1 and 19. The DPCC office had set up 14 boxes for the 14 districts. “We have received between 15 and 30 applications for tickets from each ward. The database created from these application will come handy in future elections as well,“ said a senior Congress functionary .
 
 To ensure a democratic process, influential party leaders are being kept out of the scrutiny process. “This is happening for the first time in DPCC. I was excited to receive a call for my opinion in the selection of candidates,“ Anirudh Marwah, a booth-level worker in Tilak Nagar, told TOI.
 
 The scrutinised applications will be forwarded to DPCC for finalising the candidates after March 12. The person with the largest number of references would be given a ticket. “Seeking the opinion of ground-level workers will reenergise them,“ said DPCC chief Ajay Maken, who visited the war room on Thursday .
 
