AJNALA: The two   with links in Pakistan and Canada, who were arrested in a   and Amritsar (rural) police, wanted to avenge the incidents of   in Punjab.Wearing  , Maan Singh, a resident of Sri Hargobindpur in Gurdaspur district, and Sher Singh, a resident of Kartarpur in Jalandhar district, were produced in an Ajnala court on Monday. They were sent to five-day   by the court.

 In a hurried interaction with media, 40-year-old Maan claimed both of them were enraged following incidents of disrespect to Guru Granth Sahib in Punjab.“We can't tolerate seeing anyone showing disrespect to our Guru,“ he said.
 
 Without naming anyone, he said there were many people responsible for the incidents of sacrilege. “You also know who the culprits of these incidents are,“ he said. Maan also accepted that he had spent 15 days in Canada.
 
 His 28-year-old accomplice Sher, however, was remorseful. “I apologize for what I have done. I don't know anything. We were arrested before we did anything,“ he said.
 
 On Sunday, both of them were held near BSF's old Kamalpur rear post while the troops there were patrolling the area with a police team.Security forces had recove red an AK-47 rifle, five hand grenades, a modified machine-pistol (MP), five pistols and over 450 rounds of ammunition of different calibers from the two.
 
 BSF sources said that Maan and Sher were in a Toyota Innova SUV at odd hours near the India-Pakistan border. “They at least took three rounds near our old post, which raised the suspicion. We also found digging tools from their car,“ said sources.
 
 Sources said since both of them were not local residents or had BSF passes issued to cross the border fence, it was believed that they were to contact some courier. This courier, who could either be in the guise of a farmer or farm help, having access across the border fen ce and could have retrieved arms and ammunition buried across the border fence two to three days ago.
 
 “There is possibility that they could have carried out blasts or other terror activities ahead of the anniversary of Operation Bluestar being on June 6,“ said sources.
 
 Sources said that duo's WhatsApp was also active at the border and they had received a call from some person in Canada on their group `Canada Qadian'. Both of them were in contact with one Gurjivan Singh, who lived in Canada and had travelled to Punjab couple of times in the recent past, and had received verbal training on executing terror strikes, a senior officer of security agency said on the condition of anonymity.
 
