Nagpur: Nagpur University vice-chancellor SP Kane on Monday named   as the new dean of science and technology, thus solving the puzzle that had gripped the upper echelons of the university over the last two months.

 Former dean of interdisciplinary studies Rajendra Kakde, who is pharmacy professor at NU’s PGT department, had lobbied hard for the post after regrouping of faculties necessitated new appointments.
 
 NU insiders said the development is another major blow for Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who had put his foot down to make Kakde the dean. Earlier, Yeole was left red-faced when the government ordered inclusion of pharmaceutical sciences, that was placed by NU under interdisciplinary studies, under science and technology.
 
 Juneja is head of NU’s postgraduate department of chemistry. Maheshkumar Yenkie held the charge before Juneja.
 
 Last week, Rajashree Vaishnav was named the dean of interdisciplinary studies. Along with her, former pro-VC Vinayak Deshpande was reappointed as dean of ‘commerce and management’ faculty while law college principal Shrikant Komawar was again handed over the charge of humanities.
 
 Confirming the new appointment, Kane told TOI that this time he kept seniority in mind. “The appointment was based on seniority and size of faculty. The science and technology comprises engineering, science and pharmacy. Of them, science is the biggest faculty and therefore Juneja was chosen.”
 
 Kakde’s appointment as dean had created controversy since senior faculty members from pharmaceutical sciences were overlooked. 
 
 Sources said this time Kakde, who is close to Yeole, couldn’t make it because there were other controversies and some officials were not happy with his style of working. Petitions against Kakde, including extending favours to his son in exam are pending before the chancellor Ch Vidya Sagar Rao.
 
 “Thus, it was difficult to name him as the new dean,” sources said.
 
 Meanwhile, academician Ved Prakash Mishra congratulated Juneja for his new role.
 
 (With inputs from Megha Tiwari)
 
 
