BENGALURU: BBMP’s move to cut around 15 trees near the   along   to clear the way for a   project has raised the hackles of residents from the neighbourhood. 

 Over 50 members of residents’ welfare associations from Vinayakanagar and KR Garden along Old Airport Road staged a protest near the ISRO campus on Tuesday. They alleged more than 15 full-grown trees have been chopped off by the civic body in the past two nights. 
 
 The signal-free corridor, pending for three years, is coming up between ASC Centre in Domlur and Hope Farm in Whitefield. The 17-km corridor aims to facilitate smooth movement of traffic on the busy Old Airport Road.
 
 Aravinda Badrinath, member of an RWA, said though they had information about the project, only recently did they get to know that the civic body had plans to cut more trees. “The Palike is not even clear about where and when they will do compensatory planting. When we questioned   forest officials, they said they were helpless as the project had been cleared already. Road infrastructure officials said they have to sacrifice trees for development and they have no other option,” he added.
 
 As soon as the news about the tree cutting spread through WhatsApp groups, more people started gathering at the site. They stuck placards on whatever was left of the trees. “We were cut mercilessly at night, our curse to Bengaluru continues…no rain,” a placard read.
 
 Paramesh KN, another resident, said, “BBMP is deliberately felling trees in the night so that they won’t face any opposition,” he added.
 
 ‘Long-pending demand of commuters’
 
 BS Prahallad, chief engineer (road infrastructure), BBMP, said the project has been a long-pending demand of road users who are fed up with traffic jams on the stretch. “After long discussions we have been able to convince the National Aerospace Laboratories (NAL) and they have agreed to share land under Transfer of Development Rights (TDR). We have got permission from the forest cell to cut about 17 trees. We have to remove them to facilitate traffic flow on the stretch,” he added.
 
