Come summer, and the flowers take over your home – even in décor. We are talking about the return of   – the most reliable style staple this side of the world. But this time round, you can customise your  ! Choose your favourite paisley shape and order it on pillows, paisley cups and dinnerware. From Ralph Lauren’s paisley bedcover to Laura Ashley’s paisley wallpaper, it’s the new luxe motif. 

 
 This mango-shaped motif is a hot design for home and bath furnishings. Interior designer   says, “Paisley never goes out of fashion – it’s cosy and eco-friendly.” She pegs paisley wallpaper as the hottest décor trend, this season. For a bespoke look, decorate the walls using paisley wall stencils. Chopra adds, “Large paisley motifs on curtains give a profound impression of feminine power, while subtle and subdued paisley designs define vibrancy.” 
 
 The design has a rich history. Professor Amit Sinha from   says, “The designs were called many names – buta, buti, amiya, keri, etc depending on the local dialect. Once popularised in weaves, it evolved through embroidery, jewellery, architecture, home décor and print.” 
 
 
 Textile designer Neeru Kumar says, “Paisley is a fascinating motif. It brings up emotions that are comforting, classic and rich in heritage and nostalgia.” Fashion designer David Abraham’s love for paisley goes back a long way. He’s used it lavishly in his home décor collection. Designer   too has incorporated it in his current home collection. He says, “The paisley motif is one of the many hundreds of buta motifs from the Indian design directory. Its origin has been a topic of debate for centuries – but it’s one of those classic motifs that has stood the test of time and been repeatedly celebrated in some form or the other.”
 
 
 To flaunt paisley, try the motif on linen or cushions, flower pots or crockery. It’s a great upholstery design too, and popular for summer quilts (dohars)
 
 
 The teardrop-shaped paisley motif is thought to have originated in Persia, although the name comes from the town where textiles with these designs were heavily manufactured in the 1800s – Paisley, West Scotland
 
 
