CHENNAI: On the sidelines of former chief minister  's 69th birth anniversary, chief minister   on Friday announced an interim relief of Rs 15 crore for fishermen affected by the oil spill following the collision of MT   and MT Maple off Ennore port in January.

 The CM sanctioned `5,000 each as relief to 30,000 fishing families affected by the oil spill in three northern districts (Chennai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur). Further, two fish markets would be set up at Ernavur and Nochikuppam at a cost of `75 lakh, said an official statement. In line with the state's announcement earlier, efforts are on to get compensation from the shipping companies through the Centre. Applications from the insurance companies are being distributed to the fishing families, and filled-up forms being received. Delayed compensation from insurance companies was a world-wide phenomenon during such accidents, the statement said.
 
 With an army of government staff and volunteers chipping in, huge tonnage of oil sludge was removed from the coast over a 25-day period. The oil spill from the ships spread along Chennai coastline and to the neighbouring districts as well.“Livelihood of fishermen of three districts was affected as they could not venture into the sea since the day of oil spill, and due to the reluctance of general public to purchase fish from them,“ the statement said. The staterun Fisheries University has taken up studies off the coast and certified that the fish are safe for consumption. Fisheries minister  , on his part, has been consuming sea food in full media glare to allay the fears of people.
 
 The state government also chose the day to announce the Union government's nod to increase the number of work days under the rural job guarantee scheme, MGNREGA, from 100 to 150 days. This comes in the wake of the state government declaring all 32 districts as drought-hit due to poor monsoon last year. “This order will benefit 1.23 crore rural job cardholders,“ another statement said.
 
 Edappadi to meet PM on NEET issue
 
 Coimbatore: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will meet Prime Minister   on February 27 to develop a rapport between the Centre and state governments.Palaniswami said he would demand that Tamil Nadu be exempted from the purview of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). This is his first official visit to New Delhi after assuming office on February 16.
 
