HUBBALLI : The   has relaxed   by two months, for admission to  . It had restricted children's age to four years to gain admission to LKG and six years to Class 1, as per the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act-2009. Now, a child can be admitted to LKG even at the age of 3 years 10 months, and to Class 1 at 5 years 10 months.

 The recent relaxation, brought in under the Karnataka Education Act 1983, will be applicable from the 2017-18 academic year. The department took this decision, keeping in mind students’ mental development. NH Nagur, deputy director for public instruction (DDPI) said the department issued the order to all schools, including government, private aided and unaided, as admissions to the new academic year are to begin. “Every child in the 6 to 14 age group has the right to free and compulsory education under the  , column 3, but the department has provided 60-day relaxation under the Education Act-1983, rule 20,” he said.
 
 He said that school authorities should not ignore admissions of 6-14 year old children who are school dropouts. School authorities should allocate classes as per age – 9-year-olds should be admitted to Class 4 even if they are school dropouts. “The teaching staff will have to put in extra efforts to upgrade their skills to those of regular students, through special classes,” he said. 
 
 Umesh Bommakkanavar, BEO, Hubballi, clarified that school authorities should not reject children if they don’t have age proof. Parents can admit their children by submitting a letter declaring that they don’t have age proof documents. “This new rule will be applicable from the next academic year,” he added.
 
 He noted that school authorities like headmasters in government, aided and unaided schools should strictly follow this instruction given by the department. “We will take stern action against headmasters if they failed to follow rules,” he warned.
 
 BN Talavar, headmaster, government higher primary school, said they have got the department’s order regarding age relaxation, and will follow the instructions.
 
 “The education department has taken a good decision on age proof and relaxation of rules for admissions, because we are confused,” said a parent, Mallikarjun Chebbi. 
 
