SHIRDI: The   (MADC) has drawn up plans for the second phase of the Shirdi International Airport.

 The plans include an additional state-of-the-art terminal building, besides other facilities.
 
 Final touches are being given to the Shirdi International Airport before it becomes operational.
 
 During a tour of the airport, a senior official of the MADC said that for now, the airport will be a ‘dawn-to-dusk’ facility and night landing facility will start within the next five months.
 
 “The second phase of the project will be completed by the end of next year, if everything goes fine. Only some work related to electricity remains, which will be completed by this weekend. The work on creating night landing facility has been started and we plan to complete it within five months,” the official said.
 
 Around 60,000 pilgrims visit Shirdi every day and the officials plan to tap at least 10% of them. “We are expecting good passenger load from the south and from Delhi. The date of inauguration has not been finalised but it should happen by the last week of this month or early next month,” he told TOI.
 
 The official said that the new terminal building will be much swankier than the existing one.
 
 “The second phase will be completed by 2018 end. The terminal building will be adjacent to the existing one and will be bigger and better. There will be an aerobridge connecting the building with the aircraft. However, we are now concentrating more on the inauguration of the airport and are expecting more airlines to come forward,” the official added.
 
 The airport is spread over an area of 900 acre with the total cost of the project being pegged at approximately Rs 350 crore.
 
 Flight capacity to increase
 
 “Airlines like SpiceJet, TruJet,   and Air India (AI) have shown interest and AI has been already been given a slot. As far as international flights are concerned, we are depending on unscheduled chartered operations. Shirdi is a holy place and many devotees from India as well as foreign countries come here. A team from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) will arrive here this month. We are hopeful of getting a licence from DGCA,” the official said.
 
 He added that the airport will have the capacity to handle between five and six flights per day. Currently, it is going to be one flight, he said.
 
 Sources told TOI that a letter from chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ office has been sent to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) regarding the inauguration of the airport.
 
 “If the Prime Minister is unable to come, the chief minister will inaugurate the airport,” an official said.
 
