CHENNAI: The Indian singles campaign at the   came to an end on Thursday after   stumbled out losing to   6-3, 6-4. After current India No 1 Saketh Myneni went down tamely to  , it was all on Yuki to keep the hope alive. It wasn't as if Yuki did not bring out his best game but Paire was just better than him in all quarters. The Frenchman brought a certain charisma on the court and it was a treat to watch him glide with his serve and volleys and his big serves and the Indian failed to withstand a barrage of aces (12) from Paire.

 "I had a lot of chances but I couldn't capitalize on them. I am happy after this match because I did not think that I played too badly. It was a positive result because I could give myself so many chances against a top player. It felt good that I could sweat him out. Paire is a very difficult player to come with a strategy because he is good with the feel of the ball. I will try to keep this momentum going into the Australian quails next week," he said after the match.
 
 Yuki was broken in the second game itself. He had a chance to break back in the fifth game after he had two break points, thanks to a double fault by Paire. But Yuki squandered his chances and Paire held serve with an ace. Though Yuki did well to hold his serve in the next game even after committing a double fault which rewarded Paire with a break point, it wasn't enough to stop Paire from pocketing the set.
 
 Paire maintained his cool throughout and his agility on the court made the difference.
 
 Bhambri, who made it to the second round after a comfortable win over fellow Indian Ramkumar Ramanathan, began the second set with renewed vengeance. He successfully held his serve and had the best chance to break Paire in the next game when he had three break points. But the unstoppable Paire held on to take it to deuce and making it 3-2. Yuki fought back holding serve but was soon broken in the fifth game. But when it looked that Paire would break Yuki again to win the match, the Indian held serve but it was already too late. The Frenchman wrapped up the match with an ace.
 
 Talking about his opponent after the match, Paire pointed out that Yuki needs to work on his serve. "Yuki is a good player and he moved well. He doesn't have the best serve on Tour and he needs to work on that. I was trying to target his backhand because forehand is his favourite shot," said the Frenchman.
 
 Meanwhile, a day after top seed   bid adieu, second seed and world No 14 Roberto Bautista Agut brought sanity after he made short work of Brazilian Rogerio Dutra Silva 6-3, 6-2. He will run into Mikhail Youzhny who recorded a facile win over Argentine Renzo Olivo 6-1, 7-5.
 
