After a bolt of lightning damaged its structure last year, the city’s iconic Boot House is all set for a makeover 

 For thousands of us, one of the memories while growing up in Mumbai is visiting the Old Lady’s Boot House at Kamala Nehru Park. However, on March 25 this year, shortly before the summer vacations in most schools and colleges flagged off, the tourist spot shut its doors to visitors for renovation. 
 
 We hear the famous old boot is all set to get ‘polished’ now. It will get renovated with structural repair, and will have a new colour scheme and lighting arrangements. After work is complete, the authorities promise, it will look like a brand new boot. When BT went to the spot a few days ago, we found construction work on in full swing. According to  , a local resident, the boot house had been barricaded, barring visitors from entering it since the last monsoon. Shop owners outside the park further add that it was deemed dangerous after it was struck by lightning. The structure, they say, had developed a huge crack after the accident last monsoon. 
 
 Sandeep Nighot, S E WW (Civil), who is working on the project, says, “The building had developed cracks in a couple of places, so we brought in structural consultants for an audit. They have suggested that we make certain important structural changes without razing the existing boot house. So, you can say that it will be modified. We also have an elaborate plan for installing lights and colour scheming the house to make it more attractive for kids.” The park is likely to open to public only around February 2018.
 
 Interestingly, it’s being redesigned keeping nursery rhymes like Twinkle Twinkle Little Star and Ba Ba Black Sheep in mind. The Echo Gazebo wall will be painted like a starry night while the grill fencing near the amphitheatre will have a mural. Fish ponds and lily ponds will also be a part of the renewed park. 
 
 Meanwhile, shop owners who sell chips, cold drinks, tea and snacks, rue the fact that footfall at the spot has dropped by 75 per cent this year. Gajanan, a shop owner outside the park, sighs, “Our sales have dropped. It’s only 25 per cent of what it was last summer. No one comes here. And this will continue till they reopen the park. Earlier, we had buses full of tourists halting here. But none of that happens anymore. The authorities could have started work earlier or later, but they chose the vacation season and that has hit us badly. We do understand that summer is the best time to finish all the cementing work, but the decision has not been very kind to us.”
 
 
