DHARAMSHALA: With the election season nearing, party leaders here made   an occasion to launch their political agendas. No wonder, it was first public Holi in four years for some politicians. Those already in power, along with ticket aspirants of various parties, were seen out in their constituencies all day long celebrating the festival.

 Urban development minister Sudhir Sharma arranged a gathering at his new house at Khaniyara. Taking a jibe, his opponent BJP leader and former minister   said that it was after four-and-a-half years that the minister has remembered his constituency on Holi.
 
 “Last year also, I had celebrated Holi in Dharamshala. It is a festival of colors which removes all distress from life and gives a message of unity in society,” said the minister.
 
 “Now, they are marking International Women Day and Holi with their voters. Since being elected, they touring foreign countries,” said Kapoor.
 
 BJP leader   too made arrangements to celebrate victory of the saffron party in Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Rajesh Sharma, a contender from the Kangra assembly constituency, too marked celebrations at Gaggal and Ranital areas. In addition to this, social media also was used to reach out to the people to greet them.
 
 Holi fair of Palampur has triggered controversies over Gokul Butail, IT advisor to chief minister and Congress contender from this constituency. Gokul is the nephew of sitting speaker of Himachal Vidhan Sabha, B B L Butail who represents Palampur.
 
 On being denied a seat, supporters of Gokul took to social media to vent their anger. They called it a deliberative move by his own family members to suppress the emerging leadership. “What would be the fate of his supporters, if one big leader is enemy of his own blood,” said  , local Congress activist.
 
 Gokul termed the behavior of authorities a distressing one. “Sub-divisional magistrate Palampur is being used as political piece. The behavior of the administration was sad, but I bear no grudges,” said Gokul in his post.
 
