RANCHI: The officials of the   are busy preparing for its first-ever   (NAAC) grading since its establishment in 1960. The assessment is scheduled from April 17 till April 19 for which a team of nine NAAC officials will arrive in the city on April 16. 

 The NAAC grading received by the RU will affect the funds provided to the university under Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA). Pro vice chancellor of RU, Kamini Kumar said, "From this year NAAC accreditation has been made compulsory for receiving the RUSA funds. While we have been lagging behind in getting the grading, we are still not far behind."
 
 The NAAC team will be looking into various aspects of the university curriculum aspects, teaching and learning evaluation, research consultancy and extension, infrastructure and learning resources, students' sports and programmes, and innovation of best practices.
 
 Vacant posts of teaching staff had been a major challenge for RU to get good ranking. However, alternative arrangements have been made for overcoming the problems. 
 
 "There is a vacancy of over 200 teaching staff in RU. However, we have permitted the various departments to rope in NET qualified people and retired teachers to teach in the university at a per class payment basis. This has helped us in overcoming the teachers' crisis for the time being," Kumar said.
 
 Meanwhile, the roster for vacant posts have been created by RU and sent to   for further recruitment procedure.
 
 Apart from the teaching faculty, the university is paying special attention to infrastructural development. While the exteriors of most of the university buildings have been repainted and beautified, the facilities like laboratories, libraries and computer centres have also been upgraded.
 
 "As far as quality education is concerned, special lectures are being organised in all the departments. We are covering all the points under NAAC evaluation and we are hoping a good grading," pro VC said.
 
 The NAAC team comprising of chairman, secretary and seven members are scheduled to visit RU headquarters on April 17, review the PG departments in Morhabadi on April 18 and visit the hostels, central library and multi-purpose examination hall on April 18.
 
 
