CHANDIGARH: After almost three months of confusion, it has been cleared that tehsildar will issue   to parents seeking admission for their wards under   in private schools. The news has come as a major relief for more than 800 parents who have applied for 25% seats in schools. Following lack of clarity on the procedure, the date of admissions to   was extended twice since December. The confusion began after the deputy commissioner's office refused to issue family income certificates for the new academic year, stating lack of staff that can verify. In the absence of income certificates, private schools refused to take forms. As a result, parents were a harassed lot as they ran shuffled between DC office, schools and Education department in search of a solution. The education department had held a meeting with private schools and date was extended to February 28.

 However, in the State Advisory Council's meeting on January 18, adviser Parimal Rai, chairman of the council, asked DC to start issuing income certificates. It was stated that the admission to EWS students is to be made after checking of required document and not on the basis of child survey document only as it involves reimbursement also to unaided private schools. It was stated that DC will evolve a criteria for issue of income certificate in discussion with education department and private schools by February 10 as the last date for submission of admission form under EWS category in private unaided schools was February 28. Chairman had suggested that help of police can be taken for verification. However, since the clarity was not there until last week, education department further extended the date to March 15.
 
 As per information, the home department has after consultation with the legal remembrancer has decided on the procedure for issuance of income certificates.
 
 The application form, self-declaration and format of Income certificate has also been vetted by the LR.
 
 Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, "The clarification was awaited as to who will issue certificates, which has come now. As per the information received, tehsildar will issue income certificates. The DEO will advise all schools accordingly."
 
