NEW DELHI: Beware if your phone displays a local number while receiving a call from abroad. This is a new genre of crime called   that has become a menace for the telecom industry across the globe.

 This fraud not only costs billions to operators and the government, but even makes a country vulnerable to security threats. Asia, Europe and Africa are the worst hit and several such rackets have been busted in Sierra Leone and Ghana last year. Sim boxes, incidentally, are legal in many countries, like UK. However, the rider for granting permission is that that it can’t be used commercially.
 
 A report by communications fraud control association (CFCA) released in 2013 mentions that   fraud is among the top five emerging threats to the telecom industry causing a loss of over 3 billion dollars per year. A survey by anti-fraud specialist Revector states that SIM box fraud and over-the-top hijack are the two top threats. Mobile operators have lost up to 20% of revenue from call termination charges to ‘over-the-top’ call hijack frauds.
 
 Telecom firms across the globe are taking suo motu steps to secure themselves from this fraud. An online report published last week states that   has initiated steps to reduce the impact of SIM box fraud in Ghana. Last year, an ex-CEO of   (GREDA) was sentenced to two years in prison for indulging in such fraud.
 
 The racket was unearthed in India after the arrest of a south Delhi-based software engineer and his nine associates. The Uttar Pradesh anti-terror squad and a military intelligence unit of J&K had stumbled upon the syndicate in Delhi and UP while probing a series of espionage calls being made to Army officers.
 
 The mastermind, Gulshan Sain, is a native of Sikar in Rajasthan. He worked as the “technical head” of a leading engineering coaching institute branch in Punjabi Bagh. Till now, police have recovered 22 SIM box units, 140 prepaid SIM cards, 10 mobile phones, 28 data cards and five laptops, apart from other equipment.
 
 “SIM boxes are used to route VoIP calls made by a person in a foreign location. In this way, an Indian number flashes on the receiver’s phone. This also confuses security agencies tracking suspicious calls. Though the quality of calls goes down, techniques like call spoofing and SIM banks mask the caller’s identity,” said an investigator.
 
 
