KOLKATA: CID officers investigating the   have come to know how the fake adoption papers were prepared by the  . Officers said they have identified two persons, including a woman, who had been working in the Barasat court and that they will be questioned in this regard. Two arrested men,   and   who carried the papers on behalf of the gang, identified the duo. 

 The investigators claimed that the two persons now under scanner had prepared fake residential proofs and got the final papers prepared from the registry office on behalf of the gang. Sleuths are not ruling out the possibility of involvement of a few government employees.
 
 "We have made good progress in the case. The chargesheet will have the details of the modus operandi. Even if some people are not arrested, they all will be named in the chargesheet. We will then wait for the court's instructions. It is important that we maintain clarity on the issue," said a source.
 
 Explaining the modus operandi, the officer said that once a fake mother is "employed" for the job, she would be admitted to a nursing home run by the gang for a day citing pregnancy. The next day, a baby - that would be "arranged" from the biological mother telling her that she delivered a stillborn infant - would be handed over to this woman. "Admitting the mother to the hospital would prove that she delivered the child. A notarized document was also issued as a proof," said an officer.
 
 CID officers said now that most of the members of one such gang have been nabbed, they will be concentrating on establishing the entire modus operandi. "Just like the foster parents, there are a chunk of other people - other staff members, nurses, ambulance drivers and even some doctors of nursing homes - who helped the gang. But then, we are dealing with them on a case-to-case basis. Too many arrests might lead to the big players managing to wriggle away," said a officer at Bhawani Bhavan.
 
 An officer said they have questioned a senior doctor residing at Kaikhali. Two doctors from Parnasree in Behala had earlier received similar summons. Sources said that the doctor was questioned amid allegations that he had sought the help of a few nursing homes in the   area of North 24-Parganas to traffic babies.
 
 
