AHMEDABAD: Even though almost 52, 546 acres of Bhoodan land is yet to be distributed among poor peasants, landless tribals and dalits, the nodal agency for the land distribution, the Bhoodan committee of the   trust, is not seen as a legal entity by the Gujarat government.

 In 13 major states, where Acharya Vinoba Bhave’s moral call to large landowners to donate some of their holdings or entire village holdings to Bhoodan committees were made, the committees were governed by state level Bhoodan Acts. 
 
 In Gujarat donations of 1,03,530 acres of land were made till the early 1960s to the Bhoodan committee of the Gujarat Sarvodaya mandal, but most of these records have not survived. Earlier, there were offices of the committee in every district of the state. But today, just the offices in Vadodara, Ahmedabad, Patan , Narmada , Mehsana and Gandhinagar are maintained, and even these have few or no records.
 
 The anomaly lies in the fact that the Bhoodan movement picked up its pace under the leadership of social reformer   in 1952, which was prior to Gujarat’s formation in 1960.
 
 “Back then, there existed a circular of the Bombay Presidency recognizing, as well as authorizing the nodal body to accept land donations and facilitate land title transfers to the needy,” said  , a senior member of the Gujarat Sarvodaya Mandal. “There was also the Saurashtra Bhoodan Act for Saurashtra region. But things changed after Gujarat was formed in 1960,” he said.
 
 “While the Bhoodan donations and distributions were still on, we did not have any law to back that activity in the new state of Gujarat,” Mazgaonkar added.
 
 Secretary of GSM, Vikram Savai, told TOI, “We have sought government assistance as most of the members originally associated with the movement are old, some are even unable to move.” The GSM members also claim that there were landowners in Gujarat who just announced their donations in public, but never made them, to escape land ceiling laws which had been enacted back then. Some of the Bhoodan land lies within town planning schemes and have even been encroached.
 
