NASHIK: Illegal hoardings, wayward parking and rampant encroachments have dented the city’s image over the past few years. Citizens now want the to-be elected representatives to solve these perennial problems on priority. 

 With the civic polls slated on February 21, the voters reminded the politicians that the first impression of a city is created through the condition of its roads and pavements, traffic sense of motorists and cleanliness. 
 
 Suresh Gaidhani, an industrial worker from  , said he moved to the city from the adjoining district of Dhule for work. Largely happy with the life in the city, they rued that driving around their new area of residence has been a nightmare. 
 
 “There has never been a problem about water, electricity or other civic amenities in Nashik. But driving on city road is certainly frightening. As a motorist, one can see many things lacking on the city roads,” he said. 
 
 Many motorists said the number of potholes causing bumpy rides have reduced over a period of time, the absence of proper road markings, zebra crossing, stop lines, speed breakers, lane marking are a dampener. 
 
 Citizens also voiced the need of traffic signals in many parts of the city, which has witnessed tremendous growth over the past eight to nine years. Poor lighting on city roads at night poses a major risk to motorists and has been blamed for several accidents.
 
 Rupesh Dalkari, a sales executive and resident of  , said there is a need to spread awareness among citizens about traffic rules. Many illegal garages have occupied the roads and shops and hawkers also eat away the much-needed place. “People also leave their vehicles parked in such a way that it proves an impediment to the vehicular traffic, apart from giving an ugly look to the roads,” he said. 
 
 Residents said efforts should be made to widen the roads considering the rising number of vehicles in the city. The civic body would also have to ensure sufficient parking to prevent haphazard parking on roads, especially in residential areas. 
 
 Citizens also voiced their opinion that heavy vehicles should not be allowed into the market areas during the day time, while there should be separate parking system for heavy vehicles outside the city and in the industrial areas. In crowded places, the civic administration can start vertical parking. Vaishali Chaudhary, a lecturer in a college, said pay and park facilities should be created to solve the   and provide employment. 
 
 According to a government resolution, every city with a population of over 10 lakh should have a traffic cell in the civic administration. This cell should be headed by an engineer, who has done postgraduation in town planning. There should also be two deputy engineers and other staff so that they can take decide on what all things are necessary on the roads for cleaner, wide roads.
 
 Along with this, the traffic cell also has other members in its committee comprising DCP traffic, RTO officer, officers of NHAI, NGO representatives, electricity engineer. They can jointly brainstorm on things that are necessary for the roads and then put them in place. 
 
 Abhay Kulkarni, president of Nashik First, said the   does not have such a cell. 
 
