The university examinations have begun and students are busy with last-minute studies to sail through with flying colours. But amidst all this academic pressure, there are reports that certain colleges — which also serve as   centres — are taking the   illegally. When we spoke to the Vice Chancellor of  ,  , he said this is something that will not be tolerated.

 
 
 Parking fee is a part of the total fee paid by the student to his respective institution. And the university shares certain amount of this with the examination centres as well. So, those examinees who are again asked to pay `10 or `20 per examination to park their two-wheeler, are indulging in an illegal activity. Taking a stringent view of this activity, the VC says, “My advice to the students is — report such cases immediately to the chief of examination centre, who is usually the principal of the college, or someone appointed by him. And if he refuses to act against the people who are charging the parking fee on his   premises, you must report it to the controller of examination.”
 
 
 
 Taking a tough view, Dr Kane goes on to add, “I want to make it clear that no college/ examination centre can charge any parking fee from the examinees on the day of the examination. But yes, if the student visits the premises in-between the examinations, he has to pay for the parking. So, there should be no confusion on this particular front.”
 
 
 
 VC says, “The students who are asked to pay the parking fee at the examination centre have to put their foot down and refuse to pay. You can be rest assured that action will be taken according to the rules of the university against the erring parties, but first you have to protest at the premise itself; you can go in a group and lodge a complaint with the chief of examination. I’m sure the problem will be solved at that level in most of the cases. The problem is that some of the students clam up in front of those who perpetrate such illegal things and take an aggressive stance with the university officials, which is not fair.”
 
