PUNE: The 
  are in a majority in the newly elected general body of   (PMC).

 About 74% corporators have declared their assets running into crores of rupees while the remaining 26% have declared their assets in lakhs - a clear picture about the wealth owned by the corporators.
 
 Going by numbers, 41 corporators have declared their assets below the Rs 1- crore mark, while 114 have revealed asset details running into crores of rupees in their affidavits submitted to the state election commission.
 
 The elections were held for 162 seats on February 21. The asset declarations of 155 corporators are available on the election commission's website.
 
 Declaration of assets starts from Rs 3.47 lakh and goes up to Rs 157 crore. At least seven corporators have declared the total assets of their family below Rs 10 lakh. Of these, five are women.
 
 While three corporators are in the Rs 100-crore club with the highest assets of Rs 157.29 crore declared by   corporator   in the Aundh-Bopodi panel, the other two are Rekha Tingre and Yogesh Mulik.
 
 The lowest assets are of  's worth Rs. 3.47 lakh who won from the   panel as a BJP candidate. Both Shewale and Kale are first-time corporators and have won their first election.
 
 The declared assets include cash in hand, bank balance, investments in shares or debentures, gold and jewellery. The immovable assets declared in affidavits include agricultural, non-agriculture, residential and commercial properties.
 
 Sources from political parties said the city's real estate sector has witnessed significant growth which has reflected in huge assets of the elected representatives. It is not always true that only those with fat assets win elections. The civic poll results have shown that people have also voted for candidates with comparatively few assets, sources said.
 
 The statistics also show that assets of many corporators falling in the range of Rs one crore up to Rs 50 crore. As many as 109 corporators have assets ranging up to Rs 50 crore, while two corporators have assets between Rs 50 crore and Rs 100 crore.
 
 The state election commission had ordered civic bodies to display details of assets of each candidate at polling booths.
 
