KOCHI: The Kerala High Court on Monday dismissed the bail plea of popular Malayalam actor Dileep. He is accused of giving 'quotation' (contract) for the abduction and sexual assault of a young actress.

 Declining to grant bail to Dileep, a single bench said the evidence presented by prosecution shows that there is, prima facie, materials to suspect the involvement of the actor in the crime. Investigation is still progressing and it is still at a crucial stage, the court said. Dileep's manager Appunni is still absconding and the lawyer involved in the case has to be effectively questioned. The possibility of including new persons as accused in the crime also cannot be ruled out as per the prosecution, the judge noted.
 
 Citing the seriousness of the alleged crime, the court said granting bail in such cases should be an exception. Through the judgment, the court said, "The case is unique, considering its seriousness, meticulous planning, cruel nature of execution and being a crime executed to wreak vengeance on a woman by engaging criminals, to sexually abuse her. Courts have to be circumspect in granting bail in such cases."
 
 In deciding to deny bail to the actor, the court also weighed the fact that the mobile phone that was used to record visuals of the alleged crime and the original memory card are yet to be seized by police. The memory card is a potential threat to the life of the victim and there is every possibility of the accused attempting to interfere with the investigation using it, the court said.
 
 Dismissing Dileep's bail plea, the court's order stated, "The petitioner, being a noted film actor, is also involved in the distribution and production of films and is also owner of a theater. Definitely, he must be wielding considerable command on the industry. Hence, the possibility of the petitioner influencing or threatening the several witnesses, who are also from the same industry, cannot be ruled out." Dileep would now have to approach the Supreme Court to seek bail.
 
 Prosecution had argued that Dileep was the kingpin whereas defence had tried to reason that there is no evidence to connect the actor to the crime.
 
 Director general of prosecution (DGP) Manjeri Sreedharan Nair had opposed the bail plea in court by listing out the material evidences against the actor and had argued that it was Dileep who gave the 'quotation' (contract) to commit the rape and record its video.
  
 Terming such 'quotation' as unparalleled in history, the DGP had submitted, "It was for the first time in the history of criminal law a quotation had been given for committing rape. Dileep's name will be written in the history books if he is convicted in the case as his act is a rare incident."
  
 On the other hand, Dileep's counsel had contended that police arrested Dileep on conspiracy charges without any evidence linking him to the crime. Police has arrested him solely on the basis of the statement given by Sunil Kumar alias 'Pulsar' Suni, a notorious criminal. Police could not find anything to connect Dileep to the crime despite questioning him for many hours, the counsel had argued.
  
 This was opposed by the prosecution by stating that the special investigation team (SIT) collected sufficient materials and evidence to prove Dileep's involvement in the crime. Statements of various witnesses and details of phone call records corroborate the role of Dileep, prosecution had submitted.
  
 Prosecution had also submitted that Dileep had met 'Pulsar' Suni at least four times at different places and Rs10,000 was given as advance for committing the crime. During the same time period, Rs1 lakh was deposited to Suni's account by an unnamed person, the court was told.
  
 Questioning the prosecution's story, Dileep's counsel had submitted that meeting of two persons cannot be termed a conspiracy unless there is meeting of minds. Suni was a regular visitor at shooting locations and a photo showing Dileep standing with Suni cannot be proof for conspiracy. Even if the allegation that Dileep and Suni met at several places is accepted, there is nothing to prove what was the reason for the meetings or what was the topic of the conversations. In short, police has no direct evidence connecting Dileep to the crime, the counsel had pointed out.
  
 Dileep's counsel had also questioned why the actress didn't mention any word about his alleged involvement in the crime despite knowing him for many years. The arrest is only intended to humiliate Dileep and spoil his career. Taking a dig at the lower court's comment that denying bail to Dileep is a message to the society, his counsel had argued that it is not denial of bail but a rightful conviction that will be a message to the society.
  
 Citing specifics of the evidence collected against Dileep, prosecution had informed the court that the conspiracy took place during a meeting in 2013 at a room in Abad Plaza hotel in  . Dileep and Suni were present at the hotel and the room was booked in Dileep's name. This was confirmed by witness statements and hotel bills. Dileep believed that his family life was spoiled by the complainant. Dileep and the complainant openly quarrelled about this at a rehearsal programme in Kochi and this was confirmed by many witnesses from the film world. After the incident, they had not acted together in any film. The revelations made by Suni were confirmed through witness statements and mobile tower locations, the court was told.
  
 Granting bail to Dileep now would be disastrous to the ongoing investigation, prosecution had argued. The mobile phone that was used to record the incident and the memory card containing the visuals are yet to be seized. Police has only been able to recover the visuals copied from the original memory card. There is also a conspiracy behind the disappearance of the original phone and the memory card. If Dileep is granted bail now, it would affect the probe into the conspiracy and efforts to recover the evidence. Therefore, he should not be granted bail until the phone is recovered, prosecution had submitted.
 
 
 
