KOLKATA: A year after the   of the  , the government has finally assigned   to determine the future of the cursed project that claimed 27 lives. The institute will carry out a   to decide whether the structure should be demolished or  , how to strengthen it.

 The study is aimed at finding out the load-bearing capacity of the structure supposed to connect Girish Park with Howrah. “IIT experts will start with a traffic survey and go on to inspect the flyover, taking the entire project into account. They have sought four months for the job,“ PWD's engineer-inchief Srikumar Bhattacharya told TOI. IIT professors Anandapran Gupta and Sreeman Bhattacharya have set the ball rolling, talking to leading engineering consultants to start the survey . The experts were earlier part of the fact-finding committee, headed by chief secretary Basudeb Banerjee, which was set up to find out the reason for the collapse.
 
 The survey will find out of the validity of the detailed project report compiled by Delhibased Consulting Engineering Service (CES) in 2008 that had pointed out the flyover would not be able to accommodate traffic beyond 2017. If the CES report is proved wrong, the IIT survey can move on to the next step to deduce if the flyover is constructed after being restored and strengthened, can it ac commodate Howrah-bound traffic till 2040? “If the survey finds it viable till 2025, then no point restoring it. The cut-off should be at least till 2040,“ a government official said. The survey will analyze the possibilities of bottlenecks as vehicles descend at Girish Park or on the Howrah Bridge-end, yet to be built. Then comes the crucial part: examining the enhanced load the completed structure can take till 2040. Restoration of the structure will be decided only after the issues are thrashed out.
 
 The report by the fact-finding committee cited a weak design and flawed implementation as reasons for the collapse.“The experts have already apprised the government of the various design faults. Now, the team will go into the depth of the structural defects,“ he added. Transport consultants pointed out the project had faults , even before its construction began. “The political diktat to finish the project within three months, when it was already 62 months too late, was daunting for construction firm IVRCL and KMDA. This could lead to technical and quality compromises,“ said Delhi-based transport consultant V Mohta.
 
