MUMBAI: Following the death of a former  , her family moved the   to seek a reimbursement of over Rs 6 lakh for   they had imported two years ago. The drug crossed its use by date on March 31, 2017.

 The court asked the   (SBI), which earlier spent several lakhs on the employees' treatment, to respond to the   after trying to give the medicines to other needy patients. 
 
 The bank is opposing the reimbursement as it said that the request was made close to the expiry date of the drugs and also because when the drugs were imported, they were not being prescribed in the Indian market.
 
 The life saving medicines imported in 18 vials as a last resort in May 2015, were never administered to the patient who died in June, 2015. The high court had issued notice on February 14 to SBI after hearing senior counsel S G Aney for petitioner, Nagesh Marathe. In March, the high court bench headed by Justice Anoop Mohta not wanting the drugs to get wasted, had requested the state government Abhinandan Vagyani to check whether the drug TDM­1 Kadcyal (imported anti­cancer chemo therapeutic drug) could be used for needy patients in any hospital.
 
 On March 30, the state informed the court of its inability to use the drugs, after checking with 12 hospitals, both government and private. It would take at least five to seven days before the medicines could be prescribed, said the pleader who also said that the medicines had only recently entered the Indian market. The government expressed its inability, “for various reasons, including no effective measures available to deal with the side effects of such drugs apart from the fact that the expiry date is 31.03.2017,’’ observed the HC in its order. 
 
 The state also said that there is no existing protocol for the management of the adverse re­action of such drug. The HC found force in the state’s contention. One of the pleas made by Marathe was that the drugs be given to the needy. The HC said no orders could now be passed on this plea.
 
 The court has sought a reply from the SBI on the issue of reimbursement of the cost incurred by the family members of the deceased employee by importing such life saving drugs at the relevant time. On April 17 both sides, by consent, agreed that the hearing be adjourned to May 3 when the matter will now be heard.
 
 The bank employee worked at a Pune branch since 1983 till the time she expired in 2015 after a brave two year struggle with Cancer. Her kin has sought a reimbursement of Rs 6.3 lakh which includes consultation fees, imported medicines and tests.
 
