The drive from Delhi airport to Greater Noida was a long one, but   was excited to explore a part of the city he had not known, despite being a Delhiite. The actor, who studied at  , had always known Delhi colleges to be the best, but he was surprised to see the sprawling campuses in Greater Noida.

  Keith, who was visiting   in Greater Noida, says, "I thought I had enough knowledge about NCR, but this area is new for me. It is a long drive from Delhi, but I think the location of Bennett University is ideal for students. It is removed from the hustle-bustle of the city, and studying at places like this teaches students about community living and bonding. It is amazing how these campuses offer sports, gym and other recreational facilities for students at one place, which is not the case with many Delhi colleges as they have space constraints. I think even the UP government should come up with more colleges and sports facilities to convert this area into a students' hub."
 
  He adds, "I'm amazed by the space and modern facilities that Bennett University is offering to students. I saw the library and I loved it, if I would have had such a library in my campus, I would have spent more time reading. I was more into sports. It is very important that students be provided with such an infrastructure, which focuses on overall development of students and not just academics. It's a lovely place and a great initiative for young students. Bennett University comes across as a place that could help students develop and exchange ideas. I was most impressed with their international set-up."
 
  
  
 
 
 
    tells us that so far, to him, Delhi colleges only meant those in North Campus, since he studied there. "I remember my university life very fondly. It wasn't so much about studying. I don't know anybody who is professionally pursuing what they trained for in college. College was all about learning to groom yourself, your mind and personality, and that's what should happen at universities. They should not just be a place to get degrees. When I was in college, there used to be a lot of interaction among students from different colleges at fests and other cultural events, and students looked forward to that opportunity," he says.
 
  Sharing more about his college days, Keith says, "One thing that DU taught me was survival – I was the one chikna guy in Khalsa, so every girl used to hit on me – and women in Delhi are stunning! Initially, all the guys felt threatened, but then they realized that they could get close to the girl they liked by befriending me. I also had an unusual name, and everyone else around was a Singh or a Kaur, Manmeet or Manveer. But since I grew up in Delhi, I was accustomed to this. I have so much connect with the Punjabi culture – an inherent part of Delhi – since I have stayed here since childhood."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  Despite being away from the campus, the actor is updated about what is happening in DU, be it the Gurmehar Kaur episode or the recent debate on including  's book in DU's syllabus. "I think that we all are more opinionated than ever, and social media has played a big role. Everyone has a platform to express their views and there is nothing wrong with it. But we should not be militants. I may have a point of view which is different from others, but then others have a right to their opinion too. As far as Chetan Bhagat’s book is concerned, I think every literary work has its own space and there will always be public debate about it," says Keith, and adds that he'd like to do a TV show or even a film that addresses the youth's problems. "I did an indie film called Sixteen, which was about problems teenagers face in urban India – young girls getting pregnant in school, young boys wanting to follow a certain career path, but their fathers thinking differently. Unfortunately, there are many people who want their children to accomplish their unfulfilled ambitions. Students also go through a lot of pressure to do well in school. The guy who used to come last in my class is now the president of a bank. So one should chase what excites him/her. Our system is such that it makes one believe that you will do well in life only if you score well in exams," says Keith.
 
 
  
  Keith Sequeira at Bennett University in Greater Noida
 
 
  The actor, who participated in 'Bigg Boss 9', will be seen on TV after a long time in 'Love Ka Hai Intezaar', where he plays a Rajput prince. "I stayed away from shows for a long time as I get bored easily. I gave my nod for this one as it was a completely different story, not the typical stuff that we see on television. This is not some soppy love story, but a story with layered characters and equal amount of drama," Keith says.
 
 
 
 
