BENGALURU: Even before the Australians landed in India, cricket experts had predicted that the visitors would suffer a series whitewash. But  's men proved them wrong with a dominating win in Pune. They looked firmly on track for another win here but suffered a 75-run defeat on Tuesday. Smith admitted it was disappointing to lose from a winning position but said his side should be proud of the fact that they put up an incredible fight against the hosts.

 
 
 
 In the first couple of days we played some pretty good cricket. But we expected India to come back hard. They played some good cricket in the second innings. The partnership between (Cheteshwar) Pujara and (Ajinkya) Rahane gave them a reasonable lead. It's disappointing, but I am still proud of the way the boys competed. When we came here, we were written off and expected to lose 4-0. But we have competed incredibly hard in the first two Test matches. If we can continue to do that, hopefully we will get more results going our way.
 
 
 
 
 On a day four wicket, which is challenging, you need things to go your way and a bit of luck too. But as far as batting is concerned, 188 was always going to be difficult and we probably just needed one or two batsmen to stand up a little bit more.
 
 
 
 
 I thought the ball hit Warner outside the line and I said go for it. With Shaun, we weren't entirely sure. I said “go” as in “go have a look at it.” But he turned around and started walking. May be I should have just put my hands up and done it. We then saw the replay and it was missing the stumps. It would have been a nice one to review.
 
 
 
 
 The game was played in good spirit. Emotions sometimes get the better of you on the field but I don't think anyone crossed the line.
 
 
 
 
 That's for the umpires to decide. With Australia and India playing, emotions fly around. As long it is kept on the field it's good. Some interesting banter between the two teams makes for a great contest.
 
 
 
 
 There is always plenty happening on a wicket like that. There is always going to be lots of referrals and appealing, umpires forced to make difficult decisions.
 
