NEW DELHI: With the help of Google, now people can locate 331 public   areas. All you need to do is to write   in Goole map and it will help you navigate through the busy New Delhi lanes to the toilet. Aimed at making New Delhi areas cleaner and reducing public urination the facility was launched on Wednesday.

 The toilets of New Delhi Municipal Council, its chairperson Naresh Kumar said, have been mapped on Google so that any person can easily search it. Currently NDMC has uploaded 331 public toilet units on Google Map.
 
 The toilets can also be searched on NDMC mobile application ‘NDMC311’. Within three months 41 more   in NDMC areas would be mapped on Google.
 
 The addresses of NDMC 331 toilets are available at a single tap on smartphone. After using the public toilets users can rate the public toilets and share their experience – in most of the toilets the experience is often better than the toilets in other parts of Delhi. The public review will help NDMC track public experience and improve infrastructure and amenities in the toilets. 
 
 “It will create a database of crowd sourced content in the form of citizen feedback,” Naresh Kumar said. At Smart Toilet Block in Rafi Marg a Google based Toilet Locator Awareness Campaign was also launched for urban local bodies in Delhi and National Capital Region by the ministry of urban development. 
 
 “By this campaign we have to undertake an exercise of locating the community and public toilets which include municipal toilets along with the toilets located in petrol pumps, malls, railway stations, bus-stands and at an other public places in Delhi and NCR,” said Praveen Prakash, Swachh Bharat Mission Director and joint secretary in the ministry of urban development.
 
 The Google Toilet Locator awareness campaign was commissioned as a pilot project last year and it has tagged more than 5000   maps across Delhi, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Noida and two cities from Indore and Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh. It aims to encourage citizens to locate toilets and give feedback on Google maps which will help force the civic bodies to improve the public amenities. There will be rewards also for users who give feedback and rate the toilets.
 
 The campaign will be run from July 12 to August 11 and on the end of the campaign the cleanest toilet will be awarded. 
 
