CUTTACK: There is finally relief in sight for the inhabitants of the overcrowded   at Madhusudan Nagar. The Cuttack Municipal Corporation ( ) is all set to start work on a   to come up on 57 acre at Munduli. 

 In March, a team from the CZA visited the area and expressed its satisfaction. CMC officials also feel that the land plot can be developed into a tourist destination. 
 
 Officials claimed that after approval of the project report on a priority basis, construction of the boundary wall will be carried out and planting will be done simultaneously on the land patch to create a green cover for the animals. 
 
 The civic body also has plans to set up a cafeteria near the Rs 5-crore deer park to make it more attractive and draw more footfall. 
 
 "We have plans to submit the detail project report on the second deer park to the   (CZA) by May 10," said A Sreedevi, chairman of CMC's standing committee on recreation and parks. "If our report is approved, then the CZA will pay 60% of the amount that will be spent on construction of the second deer park and the remaining 40% will be borne by us," said CMC's engineer, D R Tripathy.
 
 The existing deer park at Madhusudan Nagar is spread over an area of 2.5 acres and was started with just six deer in the 1980s. The deer count in the park has now increased to180. 
 
 However, due overcrowding, fighting between animals has turned into a common sight at the park. CZA authorities have also recommended that the CMC immediately shift animals from the park as its ideal capacity is no more than 20 deer. 
 
 A rest shed for the animals, meanwhile, is under construction at   to protect the animals from the scorching heat. "At least Rs 3 lakh will be spent on construction of the rest shed and work will be carried out on a war footing," said chairman of CMC's standing committee on recreation and culture, A Sreedevi. The shed will be covered with green plastic sheets too.
 
 The CMC has also chalked out a special summer menu for inhabitants of deer park to keep them cool. Green leafy vegetables and fruits with high water content have been included in the diet of the animals to avoid dehydration. 
 
 Civic body officials claimed that every day around 20 kg of watermelon, 20 kg of cucumber, 10 kg of cabbage and 8 kg of spinach is being served to the deer, along with the regular fodder. 
 
 Besides, to protect the animals from sunstroke and to keep them energized throughout the day, glucose solution is also served to the deer.
 
 "A mixture of watermelon, cucumber, spinach and cabbage is served to the deer at 11 am. The food prepares them for bear the grueling heat. Besides, we keep special tab on the water intake of the animals as it is very important to keep them hydrated," said S Samal, caretaker of the deer park. 
 
 Samal said on the advice of the veterinary doctors special medicines and vitamin supplements are also given to the animals. Water is being sprayed on the animals too.
 
 
