GURUGRAM: It’s an iconic brand that many associate with their growing-up days. Literally, for it was supposed to help you become ‘taller,  , sharper’. Now, megabrand   has a new partner.

 GSK Consumer Healthcare has appointed FCB India as the creative agency for Horlicks, following a multi-agency pitch in June. FCB will now lead creative communications and the IAT (integrated agency team) process for the brand. Earlier, the mandate was with JWT India.
 
 “This opportunity to partner GSK on brand Horlicks is a dream come true for us at FCB. Very rarely do agencies get to work on a heritage brand which after more than seven decades of existence, still defines its category,” shared Rohit Ohri, group chairman and CEO, FCB India.
 
 Ohri and FCB are excited about adding a new and “defining” chapter to the history of Horlicks in India. “Every brand has to have some degree of constancy. If you look at the greatest brands– like Nike, which has stood the test of time with ‘Just Do It’ – they haven’t changed. So our whole thinking and philosophy is pretty much same, which is that ‘brand bedrock’ gives rise to ‘never finished’ ideas,” Ohri told TOI. 
 
 ‘Brand bedrock’, incidentally, is FCB’s global tool which has recently been rolled out, a format which, Ohri explains, distils everything about the brand on one page. “We’re going to be using the brand bedrock to recognise that a brand which has come this far has enormous strength and assets. We will only look at, now, building on those and taking it to the next phase of its growth.”
 
 Indeed, by thinking of ‘never finished’ ideas, brands can be kept relevant, adds Ohri. 
 
 Meanwhile, for Jayant Singh – global lead, Nutrition & Digestive Health Category, GSK Consumer Healthcare – FCB India “demonstrated a sound understanding of the category and brand, sharing compelling insights and creative ideas that addressed both emotional and functional balance”. 
 
 It looks just like the kind of partnership to help Horlicks grow some more. Or, as Ohri says, help the brand last for the next 100 years.
 
