NEW DELHI: Declaring the death of research scholar J Muthukrishnan of   as a call for a political struggle, Dalit teachers from Delhi University and   Millia Islamia joined writers and activists from the SC community and members of the JNU unit of Birsa Ambedkar Phule Students' Association on Wednesday to demand the implementation of the Sukhadeo Thorat Committee’s prescription for curbing discrimination in educational institutions.

 Describing Muthukrishnan’s death on Monday as “not suicide”, Bal Gangadhar Bagi, JNU student and BAPSA member, said that   and OBC students in JNU faced discrimination from the time they fill the admission and are asked for their full name and father’s name at the interview. Some friends of the deceased student have said that he had confessed to feeling “alienated” in his centre.
 
 Among other things, the Thorat panel, in its report in 2011, had recommended personalised assistance to help Dalit students improve their fluency in English and to acquire social skills. It had also suggested an equal-opportunity cell in institutions that could facilitate special coaching for students from marginalised communities as well as affordable hostels, free tuition, research grants and additional capacity development for SC scholars.
 
 Dismissing the logic that because there was no suicide note, caste discrimination could be discounted in Muthukrishnan’s death, professor Hemlata Mahishwar of Jamia claimed that Rajini Krish, as the JNU student was called by friends, didn’t have money for food last week and had only eaten when a friend gave him two dosas. “This is the situation of our Dalit students and this is what they face in educational institutions,” Mahishwar extrapolated. “Prior to Rohith Vemula, were there any suicide notes in other deaths? Does that mean there was no discrimination?”
 
 The participants took up this topic and spoke at length on various kinds of discrimination against Dalits across the country. Annie Raja of the National Federation of Indian Women said, “Discrimination is a part of the fascist and Brahminical political agenda. We need to stage a political struggle against such discrimination. During a fact-finding visit to AIIMS, I saw with my own eyes how discrimination takes place there.”
 
 
