KOCHI:   will soon become one of the state's   with the department earmarking funds for refurbishing it. 

 The interior of the police station is set for a makeover with the decor in a designated area giving out the feel of a day care centre. 
 
 "The aim is to make police accessible to children. This goes for children with grievances and minors who are accused of crime," said Yathish Chandra, deputy police commissioner, Kochi. 
 
 According to senior police officers, the station will have drawings and wallpapers which are appealing to children. The move will help make the police station a likable place, they said.
 
 "The station is already a Janamaithri police station but there is a bit of space crunch here. However, with appropriate funds a portion of the station can be converted into a space where kids who are required to come to the police station can relax," said a police officer. They are also planning to stock toys for children.
 
 According to the deputy commissioner, if the experiment is successful it would be extended to other police stations in the city. "The impressions given by a school and a police station are entirely different. What we are trying to do is to reduce this gap. Once the project is completed, the police station will have the same feel as that of a school. Children will be able to interact with police officers freely as a student talks to teachers," said Chandra, adding that the project will be realized by the end of March.
 
 Kadavanthra police station is one of the six police stations set to be converted as   police stations in the state in its first phase. Across India 21 stations would be converted in a similar manner with   assistance from the United Nations Children's Fund (Unicef).
 
 "The student police cadets and clean campus safe campus drive help police gather information about student grievances. Child-friendly police stations would help us further improve the safety of children," said a police officer.
 
 Police on Friday morning had conducted surprise checks and arrested 36 school bus drivers from four districts utilising information provided by SPCs.
 
 The SPC project launched on August 2, 2010, has its roots in Janakeeyam, a community-level initiative by Kochi city police which began in 2006. Students had then expressed the desire for a formal arrangement for keeping alive the communication with the police.
 
