BENGALURU: It has been five days since a massive fire erupted in the middle of  , the city’s largest waterbody, but the simmering fumes have not subsided entirely. The state of the lake, which frothed for the first time in 2000, is a sad reminder of Bengaluru’s tryst with progress. Residents of Bellandur, who once gazed at the lake with pride, are now saddened at the plight of the waterbody.

 The residents have lost hope that the recommendations made by the lake expert committee, chaired by additional chief secretary for urban development Mahendra Jain, will be implemented. With the authorities having failed to address the problem for 17 years, the disillusionment of the residents with government bodies is understandable.
 
 Odette Katrak, 52, a citizen volunteer and Bellandur resident, said, “I have trouble breathing, and a throat infection I have contracted is showing few signs of healing. Thanks to the filth, stench, froth and frequent fires that we are exposed to, many citizens in the neighbourhood suffer health problems.”
 
 Katrak, and other Bellandur residents, said that small fires were par for the course, both near and on the lake. “Illegal dumping of garbage, and construction debris, is a huge concern. The civic agencies are just passing the buck instead of cracking down on the culprits,” the residents said.
 
 Several public and private agencies, including the prestigious Indian Institute of Science (IISc), have studied the conditions of the lake, and submitted detailed reports detailing possible remedial measures. However, with most of these reports remaining on paper, it’s hardly a wonder that lake continues to spew foam and fire. That the solution to the lake’s woes is fairly simple, but has never been implemented only adds to the frustration of the residents and environmentalists.
 
 “All the agencies need to do is ensure that untreated sewage doesn’t enter the lake, and garbage isn’t dumped in it. It appears as if the politicians and real estate developers have conspired to enlarge the area around the lake for construction, by dumping debris around its periphery,” said another resident.
 
 More than 50 people, from Bellandur and surrounding areas, gathered near Bellandur Lake on Saturday to draw the attention of the civic authorities concerned, calling on them to take steps to save the dying waterbody.
 
