As the clock strikes eight, I wake up with a start.

 Why hadn’t the alarm gone off? Or maybe it had and I had snoozed it until the infiltrating glimmers of sunshine had forced me to open my eyes. I quickly run a shower, fix my breakfast and suit up for the day. My cab driver has been honking from outside the apartment for quite a while now. Another five minutes of delay and he might leave me at the mercy of a rickshaw. I hastily grab my folders and rush out, grieving for the weekend which arrived with a dawdle and departed in a hurry. 
 
 After braving the travails of heat and traffic I reach my office. While I settle in, the peon enters with a glass of cold water. I gulp it down and browse through a stack of the day’s files. I notice that he lingers. I ask him if there’s anything he wants. With his eyes fixed to the ground, he tells me that he needs a few days off to attend his granddaughter’s wedding. I congratulate him and sanction his leave. His face lights up. He begins to narrate the story of how it was getting increasingly difficult to find a suitable match for his granddaughter because of the colour of her skin. With God’s grace, he says, they were able to find a groom within their community, who was ready to ‘accept’ the girl without any dowry. This however, he continues, had not been the case with his grandson. A stream of tears makes his eyelids heavy. His grandson, he says, had fallen in love with a Brahmin girl ‘despite’ being a Dalit. The marriage obviously didn’t materialize but his grandson was currently lodged in a prison because the parents of the girl had filed a bogus case against him.
 
 As I hear him recount his hassles, I can’t help but feel smothered by the colour and caste which had been naturally bestowed on me by the accident of birth. Up until this moment, I hadn’t realized that my   and   had actually been a privilege which had ensured that most of my life was a hotbed of fulfilled desires.
 
 The evening descends and I make my way out of the office. The cab driver is running late. Just then a little boy, not more than sixteen years of age, catches my attention. He is seated on the sidewalk with a bowl in his hand and a leg, visibly afflicted by elephantiasis, stretched out before him. I fiddle with my pocket for a coin or two and happen to chance upon a bunch. Walking up to him, I drop them in his bowl. He looks up at me and mutters a soft ‘Thank you’. His use of the English language takes me by surprise. I sit next to him and ask him if he goes to school. Instantly, he breaks into a smile and shakes his head in the negative. He tells me that his father is a daily wage labourer. He is the eldest of three brothers and thus has to earn money in order to help sustain his family. Ideally, he says, he would have wanted a job but his ‘disease’, does not let him do much running about. He has never been to a school himself but the money he collects on the sidewalk helps pay the fee for his brothers’ education. It isn’t enough, but it suffices. It is from his siblings that he has learnt basic English salutations.
 
 The feeling of being smothered comes back to me. I’d never thought how my house, my education, and even my food were much more than bare essentials. They too were a privilege which had been granted to me, again by the accident of birth. The monetary achievements of my parents had determined their class and had thereby rendered me as a major beneficiary of this entitlement.
 
 I reach home and find that my mother has flown in from our hometown. She hugs me and immediately asks what I want to eat. I tell her to rest and let me cook instead. She dismisses and insists. And then it hits me again. She has been doing this forever. Even as I child, I remember seeing her managing the household with business-like efficiency. There were times when we would all go out and reach home tired. While I and my father would laze around, her and my sister would find their way to the kitchen and cook for all of us, irrespective of their exhaustion. I assumed it was their duty or more accurately their responsibility. What I didn’t know was that it was nothing but my privilege which had arisen because of my gender - yet again an accident of birth owing to which I was permitted to enjoy the fruits of other’s labour.
 
 This night as the clock strikes eight, I truly wake up with a start. 
 
