NEW DELHI: Is the   grade separator project proving another white elephant for the city? 

 Conceived in 1998 and commissioned by the erstwhile   in 2006, the flyover is yet to see the light of the day. Thanks to the delays, the cost of the project has escalated from Rs 177 crore to Rs 724 crore. 
 
 Last year, the   had announced it would throw open the much-delayed flyover, aimed at decongesting the stretch between   and  , by January 2017. However, at least 30% of the work is yet to be completed, claimed Pravesh Wahi, standing committee chairman of the north civic body.
 
 Ravi Kumar, a shopkeeper near Azad Market, said that there had been no major progress on the project in the past few years.
 
  “The pace of work is really slow and it will take a few more years for the corporation to complete the construction. It has been more than a decade since the work started, still there is no respite in sight,” he added. 
 
 However, Wahi claimed that shifting of power and water utilities and the fund crunch faced by the civic body have contributed to the delay. “Acquisition of land also caused major delays as multiple agencies were involved and shifting of services of DJB and BSES took more time than we expected. Also, contractors stopped their work due to non-payment of their dues as a result of the fund crunch. Now, we are speeding up the process and there is no financial problem for the project,” maintained Wahi.
 
 He nevertheless assured that the project would be inaugurated by March-end though there are few takers for such claims. “Around 150 segments are yet to be constructed. It takes at least a day to construct one segment. We are trying to finish the project at the earliest and get it inaugurated by March-end,” added Wahi. 
 
 Explaining the cost escalation, Wahi said that the construction cost was the same but the price of land had gone up due to a change in circle rates in the past one decade. This means the land acquisition cost has increased from Rs 70 crore to Rs 524 crore. The contract for the construction work was awarded to a private agency for Rs 93 crore and Rs 42 crore was deposited with the railways for carrying out construction over train tracks and other property.
 
 “The amount sanctioned for civil work hasn’t changed. It is still the same but due to revision in circle rates, the cost of land has gone up, which is the reason for the revision in the project cost,” said Wahi.
 
 He further said that the tender awarded to the private agency had a clause, which did not allow any cost escalation of construction work. “There is a clause in our tender that we cannot change the cost of construction work of the project, so there is no scope for corruption.” 
 
 Last year, the Centre had sanctioned Rs 85 crore for expediting the work on this project. The construction work has weakened the drainage system of the area, leading to waterlogging during the monsoon. Besides, driving around this area is a nightmare because of the bad condition of the road and haphazard dumping of construction materials. 
 
