Bhopal: The CAG has severely criticized the   government on a string of “irregularities” concerning Vyapam — from the government’s alleged “dual stand” and how central auditors were stopped from accessing its records to “arbitrary appointments” and alleged lack of financial accountability. The report, tabled in the assembly on Friday, has ignited a political storm in Madhya Pradesh where the Vyapam scam is still a raw wound for the government and a soft target for the opposition.

 “While the MP government disowned and distanced itself from Vyapam, on the other hand it was in full control of the examination board for all practical purposes... The shadowy control (on Vyapam) has led to a situation where there was severe erosion in the credibility of exams conducted by board,” CAG observed in its latest report for 2015-16 tabled on Friday. In a scathing remark, the report points out that the state government “did not take any remedial measures” by framing rules/regulations to prevent irregularities even after the Vyapam scam. 
 
 While the government seemed numbed by the report — no one was willing to give a comment — Congress seized the opportunity. Leader of Opposition Ajay Singh said, “This is a very damning report. The Shivraj Singh Chouhan BJP government now stands fully exposed.”
 
 It’s not usual for CAG to hold a press conference in a state while releasing its report but that’s exactly what happened this time.
 
 Accountant general Saurabh Mallick presented the report at a press meet on Friday. “The board (Vyapam) was constituted with confusion over its status, which persists till date. The state government in the notification of 1982 declared that it would not be responsible for any act of Vyapam. However, the status of the board as a government department was accepted thereafter, which was also confirmed by the law department of MP during various inter-departmental deliberations,” says the report. The government did not allow access to Vyapam records in 2015 and 2016, saying it was not a government body, notes the CAG.
 
 The posts of chairman, director and controller of the board were filled by the transfer of state government officers and government funds were utilised at the instance of the government, the report says. Despite this, the government did not frame any rules regarding conduct of board, examination, business of board, collection and deposit of fees and financial procedures, it said, adding that the confusion over the status of Vyapam “was allowed to continue”.
 
 The CAG has recommended that the state government investigate cases of irregularities in appointment of officers to the board and hike in pay of officers. It also suggests Vyapam be brought to the level of a public service commission/staff selection commission.
 
 Here are the key findings.
 
 Arbitrary appointments: The appointments of director and controller were made by “systemic subversion of rules”, resulting in undue favour to certain individuals, it says. Dr   and Dr Pankaj Trivedi were appointed to these posts directly on orders of the then minister “in contravention of the rules”.
 
 Delayed & faulty constitution of statutory board: The delay in establishment of statutory Board “defeated the purpose of providing greater authority and credibility” to the Professional Examination Board in Madhya Pradesh. The state legislature passed the Vyapam Act in August 2007 but the government established the statutory board under this Act only in March 2016 — after a delay of more than eight years.
 
 Transfer of govt recruitment against constitutional pronouncements: Recruitment examinations for state-level posts were transferred to Vyapam in April 2003 in an “unprecedented manner”, the CAG report says. There was no augmentation of manpower/established system to handle the new function. This hampered conduct of examination by the board. Conduct of recruitment examination — a primary function of the government to ensure free and fair recruitment to its own services, which was till now being conducted by PSC/government departments — was “jettisoned in favour of an institution that was neither statutory nor independent, nor functioned under well laid out regulations”, it points out. This went against well established judicial and constitutional pronouncements, it says.
 
 CAG auditors kept out: The state government did not take any remedial measures by framing rules/regulations to prevent irregularities even after Vyapam reported some cases of irregularities in conduct of examination. There was no evidence that the government ensured the integrity of IT-based system used in the examination conducted by the board. Early on, the government decided that the audit would not be entrusted to CAG as it was presumed that the ‘AG was very busy’. AG was not consulted in the matter.
 
 Financial accountability ignored: The fund of the board was kept outside government account and it was not subjected to budgetary control of the legislature. The board, however, had no hesitation in transferring Rs 13.75 crore fund to other organisations for activities not connected with Vyapam.
 
 And in a recommendation that is sure to pinch the government, it says: “The government might do well to heed the directions of   regarding the status of Vyapam and take all necessary steps to grant and strengthen that status.” The Supreme Court had made it clear that Vyapam has no existence apart from the government, the CAG reported pointed out, taking a dig at the MP government’s ‘dual stand’ on the board.
 
 
