NAGPUR: Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC) has sanctioned Rs 7 crore for construction of parking bays for larger aircraft like Boeing 747 and Boeing 777 at  . Meanwhile, the home ministry has cleared the names of five shortlisted companies for development of the airport.

 An MADC official said that in the board meeting of the company held recently, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who is also company’s chairman, sanctioned the amount. Vishwas Patil, vice-chairman and managing director, told the CM that Mihan India Limited (MIL) had received request from   for bigger parking bays at Nagpur airport. 
 
 Air India stated in the letter that it was using the maintenance, repair and overhaul depot (MRO) near the airport for carrying out maintenance of its B-777 aircraft. It also stated it intends to start both domestic and international flights using B-777 aircraft from the city. The airline intended to connect it with South-East Asian countries like Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand.
 
 Patil told the MADC board the Nagpur airport had witnessed passenger growth of between 18% and 20% in the last two financial years. Airports   (AERA) had notified the Nagpur airport as one of the major airports in October 2016. He further said additional cargo space had been created to meet the immediate future demand for cargo. A cold storage facility has also been created for the export of perishable fruits and vegetable and would soon become operational.
 
 The VCMD further said that MIL had entered into an agreement with IT company SITA for implementation of common use terminal equipment (CUTE), common use self-service (CUSS), baggage reconciliation systerm (BRS). This will lead to decongestion of check-in counters during peak hours.
 
 Meanwhile, the union home ministry has provided security clearance for the five companies shortlisted for development of the city airport. These are GVK Airport Developers, PNC Infratech, Tata Realty and Infrastructure, GMR Airports and Essel Infra Projects.
 
 BOX
 
 CCTV cameras at airport
 
 MIL has decided to install CCTV cameras at the airport, especially in areas of passenger interaction. It has also decided to increase the number of exit booths. The MADC official expressed regret for some unfortunate incidents caused due to the parking contractor. “The contractor has been warned and any such incidents may lead to termination of the contract,” he added.
 
 MADC has come up with a new arrangement for decongestion of parking area at the airport. Four separate parking zones have been created corresponding to different needs of users and passengers. This has been praised by the   (VTA). The official said that VTA’s suggestions were under consideration. 
 
