GORAKHPUR/LUCKNOW: UP Chief minister   has taken over 50 administrative decisions in his one week in office, and his latest advice to the bureaucracy– work 18 to 20 hours a day to give UP a new identity– may outline his full-tilt manner of functioning. 

 While decisions like crackdown on illegal abattoirs and anti-Romeo squads for women’s safety have hogged headlines, other decisions have also been taken to chart a new course for the state known for its tardiness. His directive to ensure that officials and ministers reach offices by 10am, and installation of biometric attendance at government offices, is proving popular. On Sunday, Yogi said the people of UP had entrusted him and his colleagues with great responsibility; therefore, party workers must work hard to give the state a new identity. 
 
 “It’s a big challenge, so those who have resolved to work for 18-20 hours every day should remain with us, others should go their own ways,” he told party workers in Gorakhpur. “In two months, we will create such an atmosphere that people will start feeling the difference and know how a government should be run,” he said, adding, “I alone am not the CM but each BJP worker is a CM. We must give UP a new identity: of a corruption-free state where law is followed.” 
 
 Yogi said, “I have asked the PWD to make UP’s roads pothole-free by June 15 and the electricity department to ensure sufficient power supply”. “Goons nurtured by previous governments should leave the state or they’d be sent to jail.” Yogi said his government won’t let anybody starve and ensure that no girl remains unmarried due to lack of money. “We will buy entire wheat stock of farmers,” he said. 
 
 The CM also increased the grant for Mansarovar pilgrimage from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh. He directed the police to ensure proper drinking water facility at each police station, and strongly advised creation of a citizen’s charter in every department. He also ordered installation of CCTV cameras at all government offices.
 
