NAGPUR: Despite good output in the fields, farmers’ suicides are continuing. Data from the   of the region shows 319 farmers have ended their lives in three months since November. Investigations have categorized 89 of these as due to agrarian crisis. Another 113 deaths have been attributed to other reasons, while the rest of the cases are still under investigation. The data coincides with the harvest time, in an year when there have been no crop losses in general due to natural calamity.

 The suicide numbers on year-on-year basis have come down by nearly 8% in 2016. Also, the cases attributed to farm crisis have nearly halved to 498 in 2016, as compared to 828 in 2015.
 
 All the fives districts under Amravati division, which includes Yavatmal, Akola, Amravati, Buldhana and Washim, have been declared suicide prone since last over a decade, when the phenomenon began. Yavatmal has recorded the highest number of suicides. 
 
 With 116 ending their life in November alone in the division, experts earlier thought it may have been due to cash crunch on account of demonetization. However, the trend continued even after the cash flow has normalized. In January, 89 farmers suicides were recorded in Amravati division with 18 in February as yet.
 
 This is despite the fact that cotton, the mainstay crop of the region, fetching a good rate. After seven years, cotton is fetching a rate of close to Rs6,000 a quintal. During the earlier years, it was close to the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs4,000 a quintal. On the other hand, soyabean and tur prices are down. These are the secondary crops of the region. Area under tur has almost doubled this year but the rate is Rs800 below the MSP of Rs5,050 a quintal.
 
 Government sources managing the crisis admit that merely good crop and better rates cannot be the solution to the region’s agrarian crisis. “Income from farming is not much. As many cannot catch up with the changing times, it leads to complexities,” said a source in the state’s revenue department, which is keeping a tab on the suicides.
 
 Yavatmal has traditionally recorded the highest numbers. From December to January 98 suicides have taken place, out of which 35 were not due to farmer crisis while others are under investigation.
 
 Illness and old age are one of the major reasons for suicide in Yavatmal. It has been observed that 11% of the suicides are of persons above the age of 60, who are generally dependent on other family members. In Yavatmal, suicides are concentrated in Ralegaon and Kalamb talukas, where the rate is 26 per 10,000 population. In rest of the pockets, it ranges from 3 to 7. The least incidence is in Pusad taluka, where it is 3 per 10,000, said a source.
 
 “The state government had started the Prerna Project to scan for cases of potential depression among farmers. Government health workers were supposed to carry out a survey, but they have stopped the work after payments were held up since October,” said Dr   of Umed NGO, who proposal had led to the project.
 
 Kishore Tiwari, director of   (VNSSM), said the situation is being analyzed. The farmers producers’ groups need to be strengthened, as it has been seen that suicides are more in areas where farmers have resorted to distress sales, he said.
 
 
