TRICHY: With the protest against the proposed   at   in   entering the 13th day on Tuesday, the number of people turning up to express their solidarity has also been steadily swelling. Interestingly, unlike in the jallikattu agitation held in Marina, leaders of various political parties have started flocking to the venue after the tenth day, perhaps after testing the waters. 

  general secretary Vaiko, leaders of People’s Welfare Front and TNCC chief S Thirunavukarasar were among those who called on the protesters on Tuesday expressing their concern at the possible impact of the project on the environment. 
 
 As per the resolutions passed at the protest committee meeting on Monday, protesters held black flags in their hands on Tuesday at Neduvasal. Villagers from Neduvasal West and Aandavarayapuram joined the protest along with hundreds of farmers, students and youths who came from various districts. Meanwhile, residents of 70 surrounding villages including Neduvasal (East and West), Karukakuruchi, Kottaikadu, Vadakadu, Aandavarayapuram, Pullanviduthi and Vaanakkankadu hoisted black flag atop their houses to showcase their resistance. As many as 500 members from the jamath committee in Pudukkottai also expressed their solidarity with the protesters by staying put for a whole day at the venue. 
 
 Address the gathering, MDMK general secretary Vaiko said that development of the country at the cost of Tamil Nadu was not acceptable and people would protest against the hydrocarbon project. “Nigeria bore the brunt of hydrocarbon and people opposed it after sensing catastrophe. Now it's our turn. If the union government wants the project, they may have it in Gujarat. I urge chief minister Edapadi K Palanisamy to take strong exception to the project”, Vaiko added.
 
 Leaders of People’s Welfare Front (PWF) Thol Thirumavalavan, G Ramakrishnan and R Mutharasan, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president S Thirunavukarasar and director V Gowthaman who also addressed the gathering said that the Centre should not compel farmers to accept the project. Otherwise they warned of holding a statewide protest. While addressing a protest organized by PWF at Alangudi in Pudukkottai district, the leaders asked the union government to respect the people’s feelings and revoke the project. 
 
 Meanwhile, college students from Mannar Sarfoji in Thanjavur skipped their classes and staged a demonstration raising slogans against the hydrocarbon project. As usual, Neduvasal villagers prepared and served tasty sambar rice with potato curry, roasted green chilli and pickle to the protesters. As announced, traders will down their shutters across the district on Wednesday in support of the ongoing protest.
 
 
