Nagpur: With drinking water being scarce, irrigation is a far cry at Borwa a tribal village 60 kms from Akola city. The only source for villagers, who mainly depend on jowar (sorghum) cultivation, is the rainwater flowing down from the hills around. Even the hill stream slowed down due to a dry spell three years ago. 

 A change in the matrix introduced by a 29-year-old college dropout saved the parched village from a crisis. Nasri Chavan suggested that the crops be grown in rows instead of columns. Earlier, when the lines were straight, water from hills could not be retained in the fields. With horizontal plantations the water stayed and the dry spell could be managed. 
 
 All farms in the village are right at the foothills. Outlets were dug to let water flow from one field to another. Chavan bagged the state government’s Krushi Bhushan award for innovative farming. The prize was handed by chief minister
 
 Devendra Fadnavis over last week.
 
 “Today as much as 1,800 hectares farms have adopted the practice. Earlier, we could hardly manage to earn Rs50,000 a year, nothing could be saved. Now we get around Rs1.5 lakh purely from jowar cultivation,” Chavan told TOI.
 
 Chavan came up with her own formula of organic fertilizers, adding cow urine, dung, neem leaves and other similar ingredients. “If horizontal lines saved water, the fertilizers helped increasing the output. I shared the formula with others and some have now shifted to the organic manure. A majority still use chemical fertilizers though,” she said.
 
 “With little income from farming, buying costly chemical fertilizers hardly left any savings in hand. This prompted me to search for an alternative. Using the organic manure doubled the output at 10 quintals an acre,” said Chavan who tills a five-acre plot along with her father.
 
 She is among the seven from Amravati division to have got the awards last week. The division covers Akola, Amravati, Yavatmal, Washim and Buldhana districts.
 
 After Sachin Sarde’s father underwent a heart surgery, there was no one else in the family to look after the farms. “My elder brother is physically challenged so I had to discontinue studies and take up farming. Water is scarce in our area and soyabean is the main crop. I took a risk and started cultivating bananas which is a water intensive crop, and succeeded,” he said. Sarde is also a college dropout from Shirpurjain village of Washim district.
 
 Apart from using a sprinkler system through a bore well dug in his farm, Sarde used a select combination of seed sand fertilizers which gave a higher output. 
 
 Ravindra Metkar of Masla village in Amravati had only one acre of land on which he ran a poultry farm. Using the profits he increased the holding and chicken waste generated from the poultry farm was used as fertilizers. “I could gradually increase the holding to 35 acres, for a yearly turnover of Rs15 lakh,” he said. 
 
 “When I first started farming, I used the fertilizers made out of chicken waste on an experimental basis. The results were evident in the size of plants. I began with cotton and have now diversified to fruits and spices also,” added Metkar. 
 
 Cotton and soyabean are the main crop of large part of Vidarbha. Himmat Tappe, tried to venture out in potato and ginger cultivation apart from horticulture. This earned him a yearly profit of Rs15 lakh from 20 acres of land. “Even during lean times, the profit is as much as Rs10 lakh,” he said.
 
 Laxmi Parvekar from Savana village in Yavatmal shifted to surgarcane, rose and banana farming in this otherwise cotton belt. Banana trees were grown using tissue culture roots. “The plants bear fruits in 10 months instead of 18 month time taken in other varieties,” she said.
 
 (With inputs from Viraj Deshpande)
 
 
