CHENNAI:   government officials are facing contempt of court proceedings for their failure to pay a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of 94 children who perished in the Kumbakonam school fire tragedy in 2004.

 The first bench of acting Chief Justice Huluvadi G Ramesh and Justice R Mahadevan took up contempt proceedings on Wednesday, after it was brought to its notice that though officials gave an undertaking in court in October 2016 that they would pay the compensation by November 2016, they were yet to honour the commitment.
 
 A total of 94 children died on July 16, 2004 after the thatched roof of Krishna English Medium School caught fire. Eighteen other children suffered injuries. 
 
 Though the incident led to formation of a judicial inquiry which came out with stringent school safety norms, conviction of the school correspondent and others, besides memorial for the victims, the families had not get any monetary package as compensation -- that is, till a PIL was filed about two years ago. 
 
 The high court then appointed a one-man commission to go into the compensation aspect alone and submit a report. The commission fixed Rs 5 lakh as compensation to families of children killed in the tragedy. It also awarded Rs 6 lakh each to four students, who were severely injured and Rs 5 lakh to three students who were also severely injured and Rs 50,000 to each of the 10 other. 
 
 On October 18, 2016, the government informed the high court that it had decided to pay the quantum of compensation fixed by the one-man commission and that the money would be paid along with interest from the date of occurrence once the beneficiaries submit their bank account details to the government. 
 
 On Wednesday, their counsel told the present bench that though they had already furnished all necessary details as required by the government October 27, 2016, no money had been deposited till November 27, 2016, as directed by the court. 
 
 Noting that the government and its officials had wilfully flouted the orders of the high court, the counsel said they were liable to be punished for contempt of court.
 
 The bench adjourned the case by a week for further proceedings.
 
 
