New rules come into effect from October 1.

 
 
 An umpire will have the option of suspending a player for the duration of a match or for a shorter period for on-field misconduct.
 
 
 
 Maximum width 108mm, depth 67mm, edges cannot be more than 40mm
 
 
 
 Deliberate no-ball to gain an extra yard or two of pace with the sole intention of physically hurting the batsman will be judged a beamer.
 
 
 
 Once a batsman has crossed the crease safely, it is immaterial whether his bat is in the air or on the ground when the ball hits the wickets.
 
 Come October and cricket will never be the same again.
 
 The Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC), the custodian of the laws of the game, has introduced new set of rules, the most important of them being allowing umpires to send players off, and restrictions on thickness and depth of bats.
 
 While the new rules are yet to be approved by the International Cricket Council (ICC), that part is understood to be only a formality. The ICC has been kept in the loop all through. The new rules come into force on October 1.
 
 The recent on-field spats between Indian captain   and his Australian counterpart   only underlined the need to hand more power to the umpires to restore order in such situations. After October 1, an umpire will have the option of suspending a player for the duration of a match or for a shorter period for on-field misconduct. He could also award five penalty runs to the opposition for aplayer's misbehavior.
 
 If the umpires had the power to suspend players in 1992 World Cup in Australia, Pakistan's   would have been in deep trouble for jumping up and down like a frog imitating Kiran More's repeated and over-enthusiastic appeals.
 
 The other new rule that could significantly alter the game is the restriction on thickness and depth of bats. Cricket bats over the years have become so thick that not only do nicks fly over the boundary for the maximum, but the concept of sweet spot on it has been lost because the entire willow is now saccharine. Under the new rules, the maximum width of a bat can be 108mm, depth 67mm, and its edges cannot be more than 40mm. What this will entail is that sixes may not remain as commonplace as they are now. In the last IPL, 638 sixes were hit, which comes to an average of over 10 sixes a game.
 
 The bouncing bat rule which led to   being declared run out while playing Pakistan in 1999 at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata has also been revised. Sachin, having dragged his bat past the crease in time, was declared out because the bat was in the air when the ball hit the wickets.
 
 His dismissal led to crowd trouble and stoppage of play. The rest of the match was also marred and was played after the stands were cleared of every single spectator. Pakistan won. Under the new rules, once a batsman has crossed the crease safely, it is immaterial whether his bat is in the air or on the ground when the ball hits the wickets. The same protection will apply to a striker diving back into his ground to avoid being stumped.
 
 Wicked bowlers bowling a deliberate noball only to gain an extra yard or two of pace with the sole intention of physically hurting the batsman could be in trouble too under the new rules. Umpires will have the powers to declare such a delivery as a beamer and penalise the bowler.
 
 The MCC on Tuesday said that the guiding objective behind the changes was to make the laws work in a way that makes sense to players, umpires and spectators across all cricket playing countries. The language of new laws will be gender neutral. The term 'batsman' however, has been retained.
 
 Among the other changes, the handledthe-ball rule has been merged with obstructing-the-field rule. This reduces the number of different ways a batsman can be dismissed from ten to nine.
 
 To prevent injuries to wicket-keepers, the new rules allow a specially designed mechanism to tether the bails to the stumps, thereby restricting the distance they can fly after the ball hits the stumps. Also, now a substitute will be allowed to keep wickets with the consent of the on-field umpires.
 
 The MCC World Cricket Committee, which has drafted the changes, is chaired by   with former players like   and   on it. The MCC said the changes are a culmination of three years of deliberations.
 
 Fraser Stewart, a member of the committee and MCC's laws manager, said: "The new laws are reflective of the present times and are easier to understand. MCC has left no stone unturned in researching and redrafting the new laws. The laws are applicable worldwide so they need to be as simple as possible to understand. The club hopes to encourage interest in the game at all levels."
 
