 is all about work and very little play. You hardly see her at events, parties, or on social media. This gorgeous heroine lights up the screen with her presence, and as she straddles cinematic genres, she has shown us how a heroine can carry off films entirely on her own steam. That Nayanthara is referred to as the Lady Superstar in an industry that deifies and worships its heroes says an awful lot about her and her work. She keeps to her herself; is aloof and even distant, but that in no way diminishes her popularity or her immense fan-following. If anything, it has the opposite effect. For the first time ever, we have someone who's won the Chennai Times Most Desirable polls, twice in a row ' with the votes received online on http:www.itimes.com polls, along with our vote. Don't ask us how, but we manage the near-impossible: a chat with the fabulous Nayanthara.

 
 
 
 
 Two years in a row...quite overwhelming, honestly. Over the years, I have felt very loved by the people. But at some level, it scares me. It places a huge responsibility on me to be better than what I am; to do even better films; to be nicer; to be even more well-behaved. I owe it to all those who've loved me so.
 
 
 Honestly, I don't think in that angle. I work and give my best, and I leave the rest to my fans and audience. There has always been an unconditional mutual love between them and me, which has kept me going till this moment. Their love has me waking up happily and going to sleep peacefully. This is what I have prayed for since the day I stepped into this industry. They've known me for years. They've seen me grow; seen me take very bold decisions; seen me through lows and highs, and seen me evolve as a person and as an actress. It's tough for me to assess what it is about me they like. It can be for a 100 things. It's not my place to figure out why they think I am desirable. It feels nice just knowing they do.
 
 
 I actually don't think about that much. When someone calls me that, I'm like 'huh'! That's my usual reaction. I don't let stardom go to my head. That's how I have been raised. I'm grateful for the respect that people have given me. I consider that nothing short of a blessing.
 
 
 So, yes, as a woman it makes me feel proud. I wouldn't say this as an actor. As a woman, in a male-dominated industry, male-dominated-society, and a male-dominated country, I am happy to be given this recognition, which I don't know if I deserve or not. I have worked very hard to get here, and it's nice to get that acknowledgment. Whether it's on your talent, looks, or body of work, I know it's a big thing to get that stature. It's not something I have asked for, but yes, as a woman, I am very proud of it.
 
 
 That is because I am very critical of myself. When a film of mine does well, to be honest with you, I am happy for all of five minutes! After then I'll be like how I can up my game; how I can exceed this effort. What can I do to make my next project even better. So, along with the happiness comes a certain sense of fear. When people love you so much, you realise that your responsibility grows even more. There is an urge to outdo myself. Praise works me up to do even better. Opportunities are still limited but I am glad that our industry is opening up to heroine-centric films. Producers are willing to take a chance. I think our audience and industry are also evolving and getting where Bollywood has already reached. Films like Queen, Dirty Picture, Kahani have been path-breaking. An actor is an actor, male or female doesn't matter. We have so many talented actresses who, if given a chance, will shine in heroine-centric films. An actress can do so much more on screen beyond just being glamorous or being the love interest of the hero! Jyotika ma'am has made a strong comeback film, Trisha and Tamannaah, Aishwarya Rajesh and many others are doing really good and interesting projects.
 
 
 I never ever shy away from taking a stand. In this case he said something so nasty and disgusting that I as a woman and as an actress was outraged and insulted. The world works for money, yes, but not just for money. There are some values. There's passion involved in every small thing we do. Just because someone pays us, it doesn't mean we will be ready to do anything. The way he said it and the entire tone of that conversation irked me. Anyway, I am aware that he has apologised, and I am sure, in future, people from our own fraternity will have better opinions about our honest work and show the essence of camaraderie towards everyone.
 
 
 The glow that people are talking about comes only when you are genuinely happy from within. By God's grace I am in that space. I am in a blissful state of mind. I also work hard to maintain my looks, my skin, and my body. After all, people pay money to see actors look good, and portray their acting talents, so it's our responsibility to take care of ourselves and look good. I can't afford to look bad, tired or haggard in my profession.
 
 
 There's no one role or a specific one that I have in mind. As an actor, I want to do more and more. I am hungry to explore and experiment with diverse roles: maybe some really bold roles, or perhaps funky ones, or maybe realistic roles. But it all depends on the opportunities one has. You can only choose from the scripts that are forwarded to you.
 
 
 There are certain things I believe in. Some principles I follow; some rules I have kept for myself. These work for me and may not work for everyone. And in the same way, whatever works for everyone may not work for me. It is a conscious decision I have made of not attending my films' promotions. This is something I tell the producer at the time they come to me with the script,not at the time of signing..
 
 I do not not believe in sitting in front of a 100 channels and saying the same thing again and again about my movie. People have changed; times have changed, and it's all digital now. Numerous different ways of promotions have come up. I have come to do my bit for promotions for Maya, Thani Oruvan, and whenever I have felt the need to do so. Maybe if the movie is too small, or when it really needs to be promoted by me, I understand the producer's plight and oblige! This is entirely my personal opinion, but I think it's for people to decide whether they like a movie or not. I have never seen 'promotion' saving a bad movie. A movie will run on the strength of its content more than how it's promoted. A bad film promoted for even 100 days can flop.
 
 Vivekh sir was definitely talking about me when he made that comment. And he even asked if heroines would be okay with not taking the final payment. But the fact is many a time I have let go of my remuneration. I have reduced my remuneration for certain films, and at certain times, if a producer is not able to pay and if he's someone genuine, I've foregone the payment. If a heroine wants to go for promotions, it's her choice; if she doesn't want to go, then that's fine too as long as the particular producers are OK with it. We have worked really hard to get to wherever we are, and it's sad that such issues are raised. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
