PANAJI: A lot of players will remain unsold at the   (ISL) domestic player draft in Mumbai on Sunday but it's unlikely that many of them will be goalkeepers. The ISL domestic draft has made 30 goalkeepers available for the 10 participating franchises, and with the number of foreign players allowed in the starting eleven reduced from six to five, most franchises are unwilling to invest in a foreign goalkeeper.

 That's good news for Indian goalkeepers, most of whom didn't get enough opportunities in the first three editions of the ISL.
 
 Barring   and TP Rehenesh, not many caught the eye, simply because they were not trusted enough. When the fourth edition kicks off in November, Indian goalkeepers will suddenly be in vogue.
 
 "When you are allowed five foreign players on the field, it doesn't make sense to have one of them guard your goal. We would prefer an Indian goalkeeper," said a senior official.
 
 The official has a point. Six of the 10 franchises have already retained an Indian goalkeeper 足 some of them breaking the bank 足 and at least two teams, Delhi Dynamos and  , are expected to pick a goalkeeper in the first two rounds.
 
 Goalkeepers like Subrata Paul and   are the most sought-after as Jamshedpur FC, Kerala Blasters and Delhi Dynamos have all made it clear that they want a top-notch Indian goalkeeper. Arindam Bhattacharya 足 despite a Rs 9 lakh transfer fee 足 should also get picked in the early rounds, while   and Lalthuammawia Ralte can breathe easy as well.
 
 As a rule, each club will have to ensure that it has three goalkeeper in its squad of 25 players and the organizers have recommended that each club have at least two domestic goalkeepers. "There is a shortage of good Indian goalkeepers but we don't have much of a choice. Most franchises will be unwilling to have a foreign goalkeeper, so most will get lucky by default," said another franchise official.
 
 This time around, at least the goalkeepers will not be complaining.
 
 
 
 
 Subrata Paul: Rs 87 lakh, Arindam Bhattacharya: Rs 64 lakhs (plus Rs 9 lakh transfer fee), Albino Gomes: Rs 50 lakh, Lalthuammawia Ralte: Rs 38 lakh, Subhashish Roy Chowdhury: Rs 37 lakh,  : Rs 36 lakh,  : Rs 25 lakh,  : Rs 15 lakh,  : Rs 15 lakh,  : Rs 12 lakh.
 
