Moms are moms for a reason! They have a solution for every problem, especially when it comes to  . We all have grown up trying homemade remedies that our moms have suggested and most of them actually worked wonder for our body…isn’t it? For instance, almost everyone has tried gram flour and yoghurt paste for a glowing skin…thanks to our moms.

  So, we asked girls to share some easy and effective   they have learned from their mothers, and here’s what they had to say…
 
  1. 
 
 “I have extremely dry lips, and lip balms available in the market never provided me with positive results. My mother suggested applying milk cream on chapped lips, and it worked wonders, every single time. Plus, I have hardly invested in a lip balm.” -Spardha Pandey
 
  2. 
 
 “Mix two tablespoons of gram flour with a half tablespoon of turmeric. Further add lemon juice, two tablespoons of milk cream and half tablespoon mustard oil to this mixture. Make it a paste and apply on your skin. Wash it off with cold water and you will notice unbelievably silky skin. Plus, it also removes dirt and lightens skin tone.” –Smita Mishra
 
  
  
 
 
  3. 
 
 “Soak charoli seeds for about ten minutes and grind them to make a paste. Mix this with milk and gently scrub it on your skin. Let it sit for 15-20 minutes on your skin and rinse it off with water. It will exfoliate your skin, remove tan and help to lighten your skin tone.” –Gunjan Verma
 
 4. 
 
 "My mom swears by this remedy and now I do too. Take some dried curry leaves and grind them into powder. Add this to coconut oil and heat. Apply it an hour or two before washing your hair for luscious black hair. It also works on controlling hair fall." - Pooja Sharma Kaur 
 
  
  
 
 
 5. 
 
 “For dark circles and puffy eyes, my mother swears by a paste of almond oil and mint leaves. Mint leaves help to improve blood flow around under-eye area and soothes it. Almond oil nourishes the skin, and reduces the ghostly dark circles.”- Geetika Chakravarti
 
 6. 
 
 “I have vivid childhood memories of my mom putting a few drops of warm ghee on my navel and gently massaging it. It helps to heal cracked lips.”- Pratima Behl
 
 (Images: Shutterstock)
 
 
 
