MELBOURNE: The Williams sisters, Venus and Serena, usually have a sibling accompanying them to post-match media conferences. In Melbourne it was Isha. Following her titanic triumph, Serena was followed into the pressroom by her fiancé Alex Ohanian. The 33-year-old had his match face on for most of Serena's answers, except when she took questions on Venus. While the   champion tried to stay true, Ohanian's face clouded in emotion.

 Serena, who handled her encounter against her older sibling Venus with great equanimity, threw in her weight behind discussions on the 'greatest ever'. "Between Martina (Navratilova), myself,  , hands down we are leading that conversation," she said when told that it was usually the male players ­  ,  ,   ­ around who this discussion centred.
 
 For herself she was quick to add that she had no 'number' goal in mind. While the tennis world is preparing for the 35-year-old American superstar to overtake Aussie  's haul of 24, she said she's not targeting records. "I never had a number. That's the beauty of it. When I started this journey, I just wanted to win a Grand Slam. Then I just wanted to win. Every time I step on the court, I want to win," she said.
 
 The champion said she had no idea she would return to the top of the rankings if she won the title here. "Today on the court when they were like, 'and No. 1', I was like, Whoa, really?" Serena said, adding that it was a 'bonus'.
 
 Serena said it felt different to play Venus in the final of a Slam at this stage in their careers. "I really felt like today, win or lose there was no way I could have lost. If I had of lost, it wouldn't have been a loss because I know everything that Venus has gone through."
 
 
 
 
 Disappointed at coming up short in the final, Venus said, "I've been here before, I really enjoy seeing the name 'Williams' on the trophy. This is a beautiful thing," she said. The 36-year-old, the sentimental favourite, is pleased to have given herself a chance to play for the title. "That's exactly where I want to be standing during these Grand Slams, on finals day, having an opportunity .That's the highlight of all this, is to be in that moment."
 
