BENGALURU: It had all the proceedings usually seen at   (AGMs): Notices were served in advance and quorum was ensured, audited annual accounts were examined and approvals were obtained, future potential was discussed and resolutions were ratified. The meet wasn’t organized by a corporate firm but a religious mutt!

  (Sosale), which is over five centuries old, recently held its first informal AGM at its premises in Basavanagudi. It announced savings of Rs 2.94 crore during 2016-17 as against a deficit recorded four years ago. Around 250 devotees attended the AGM — a first of its kind for a mutt in the country. What’s even more unique is that this positive financial turnaround and inclusive participation of devotees happened after the mutt was taken over by the government.
 
 The mutt, an institution of the Madhwa Vaishnava faith, had gained prominence when Sri Vyasaraja — the rajaguru of the Vijayanagar Empire during the reign of   — was the pontiff. The mutt, which has branches in the state, Tamil Nadu and  , had been richly endowed with moveable and immovable properties by the Vijayanagar kings and devotees. But the government took over the mutt following reports about its resources being squandered, and appointed former additional chief secretary K Jairaj as its administrator on May 26, 2012. A five-member advisory team headed by former chief justice M N Venkatachaliah had been constituted to guide the administrator.
 
 Jairaj told TOI: “The state of affairs at the mutt was very bad and it called for desperate and stringent measures. The priority was to safeguard the properties and to restore devotees’ faith.” The cleansing act commenced with computerization of accounts. “Daily receipts, including the hundi collections, and payments were properly streamlined and closely monitored. We initiated an internal audit and wasteful expenditure was curbed. The accounts were published every quarter on the notice board and in the newsletter. This apart, an external accounting agency was roped in and the annual accounts were also made public,” Jairaj said. By March 2017, the mutt had earned Rs 17.51 crore and its expenditure was Rs 14.57 crore.
 
 
 
 
 The administrator also launched legal battles to reclaim the properties belonging to the mutt. “We have so far taken back 27 branches, including the one in Chennai,” Jairaj said, adding: “In fact, the mutt’s property in Tirumala, which has 45 rooms that are rented to devotees, fetches around Rs 18 lakh per year. We are in the process of reclaiming other properties too.” 
 
 With regard to changing the perception of devotees, the mutt reintroduced the system of regular prayers and religious discourses, which increased footfall. The morale of mutt employees too was boosted as insurance schemes and educational scholarship programmes were rolled out to them and their family members. 
 
 
