 Bharathan Visiting faculty, IIM-A

 
 
 
 
 A: Any film needs a script before the star cast is selected. A script has to be evaluated for uniqueness of story, the narrative techniques employed, the screenplay, scope for demonstrating a wide range of emotions and the potential of the script to awe the audience with a very strong emotional engagement. Without a strong script, having big stars alone will not help. Together they have the ability to produce a blockbuster.
 
 
 
 A: About 10-15 years back, a film’s success was based on whether it completed 100 days in the theatres, irrespective of its collections. Now with piracy being the single biggest threat to a movie’s earnings, producers and distributors no longer care about 100-day runs. The key is to maximise revenues and recover the investment at the earliest. So now, most Bollywood films release on 2000 to 3000 screens. The media gives screaming headlines such as 'this movie collected Rs 100 plus crore in first week’. Nobody asks whether the Rs 100+ crore came from 1000 screens or 3000 screens. Total revenue divided by number of screens is the correct way of evaluating a movie’s box-office performance.
 
 
 
 
 A: Indian movies, particularly those with rural settings, have a strong underbelly of caste and community. As long as they are used to tell a story in a convincing manner, there can be no judgment on the use of caste or community. But sometimes a controversy is created. This sometimes helps in a movie’s marketability.
 
 
 
 
 A: There is no doubt that Bahubali (both part 1 and 2) constitutes the most successful movie franchise that Indian cinema has seen in its 100 years. The movie scored very high on all parameters – script and screenplay, excellent production values, sophisticated cinematography supported by a very high quality of visual effects and sound engineering. India’s technical and visual effects specialists have matched Hollywood standards. Some would argue whether technology dominates the story. The story always comes first and film technology is only an enabler for telling the story effectively.
 
 
 
 Promotion has changed principally in three ways. First, the main actors take an active part in prerelease promotions. This is even part of their contracts. In the past, promotional efforts were entirely the responsibility of producers and directors. Second, 70% of Bollywood’s marketing budgets is spent on TV promotions. The studios also spend a lot on television trailers. Third, social media such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube, have become partners of film studios in promotions. It is important that the movie’s promotion create “a sense of urgency” in the audience to book tickets as early as possible. Earlier, producers thought only poorly made films required marketing.
 
