NEW DELHI: An internal survey by Delhi   has revealed that the maximum number of passengers have a monthly income of Rs 20,000-50,000. Only 9.56% are in the Rs 50,000-1 lakh bracket while those with an income of more than a lakh are a minuscule 1.67%. Therein lies the rub. The relatively affluent seem to be staying away from an efficient mode of public transport which is air-conditioned and has world-class facilities. Contrast this with the fact that the number of registered vehicles in the city has crossed one crore.

 The survey, in which over a lakh participated, was conducted by   (DMRC) in August last year. It not only exposes the limited utility of public transport that’s increasingly getting crowded and suffers from a lack of last-mile connectivity. 
 
 About 18.4% of the participants said they accessed the Metro using their own vehicle; 20.23% used a bus; 14.14% e-rickshaw; 8.23% autorickshaws; 8.10% rickshaws; 3.45% taxis; 11.51% walked; and only 14.31% used feeder buses.
 
 One of the reasons cited for the reluctance to shift to Metro is the increasing peak-hour traffic. Delhi Metro’s peak hours are 8-11am in the morning and 5-8pm in the evening. During this period, the   runs 188 trains as against174 during the rest of time. 
 
 Madhu Tiwari, who travels daily from Noida to Gurgaon, complains: “I take the train from Mayur VIhar station till HUDA City Centre. It’s packed every single day, more so the ladies coach. But I don’t have any option as driving across that distance every day will be insane.” 
 
 Anumita RoyChowdhury of Centre for Science and Environment agrees that comfort is a factor. “This shows that only a comfortable Metro ride is not enough to change the commuting decision of the car-owning middle class as people want the complete comfort of a journey from their origin to destination.” Amit Bhatt of WRI India, a transport think-tank, concurs: “We have seen from global examples that only public transport, no matter how good the quality, is not enough to restrict car use.” Bhatt says that if the city wants to “move people instead of vehicles, it needs to double its bus fleet in a short space of time” and improve the quality of Metro operations.
 
 Interestingly, while Delhi Metro’s network has increased from 193km in 2014 to 212.4km in 2016, the rolling stock or coaches haven’t kept pace. Delhi Metro, which has asked for an additional stock of 916 coaches for the existing network, hasn’t got the go-ahead from the government yet. Meanwhile,   has been going north: from 23.5 lakh daily in 2014 to 28.4 lakh in 2017.
 
 So what’s the solution? RoyChowdhury believes public transport can compete if for last and first mile, there is “ease and efficiency and more direct connectivity”. Bhatt points out: “Delhi has 21% area under roads, while London has 9%, New York has 13% and Singapore has 4.8%. Besides, parking is almost free in Delhi. This basically means that Delhi is by design prioritizing use of cars and two-wheelers and, therefore, people who can afford, use private modes.”
 
 It’s not all bleak though. According to RoyChowdhury, the survey also shows that more bus users or non-car owning community have moved to improved Metro service. “This is a good sign as this means Metro is working as an incentive to retain the public transport riders in the system,” she said.
 
