Day 58 of the   house sees the housemates continue with the task. Archana’s mom visits the house and Archana starts sobbing. Her mother asks her to stay happy in the house and not cry.   later says it’s been ages since she has heard someone say “Amma naa bangaram,” referring to something Archana's mom said. Archana’s mother asks her to be a better person in the house and not fight or cry about anything anymore.

 Archana’s mother is asked to leave while Archana is in freeze mode. She moves and runs to bid her mom goodbye but she’s asked to freeze again. But   releases her right before her mother leaves.  , Hariteja and Adarsh talk in the lawn about how traditions can be suffocating. The task continues, generating some hilarious moments. The housemates are all frozen and lights are shut down. 
 
 On Day 59, the housemates are woken up to the song ‘Mira Mira Meesam’ and the housemates all whistle and dance along, including  . The housemates all sit and comment on how Diksha’s body language is weird. They point out that she sits apart everyday on purpose and tells Bigg Boss, projecting to the audience, that Archana is manipulating the housemates. 
 
 Sivabalaji asks Diksha what she keeps talking to the cameras about. He asks her to talk to him instead and Diksha says it’s him who doesn’t talk to her, not the other way around. She brings up how everyone has nominated her on purpose and Navdeep loses his cool and tells her she’s nobody for them to scheme against, and that she's like the rest of the housemates. He asks her to stop overthinking everything. 
 
 Archana tells her she doesn’t remember how everyone made her captain but always whines about how everyone nominated her. Diksha justifies her actions and says she’s saying nothing so what’s the problem. Sivabalaji openly says she’s behaving for the cameras and not being genuine. Hariteja asks her to tell to their face if she has a problem instead of sitting by herself and behaving like they’re the ones who are singling her out. 
 
 Diksha again tells Sivabalaji that it’s them who cut her off and keeps arguing about it. Archana tells Hariteja she doesn’t understand why Diksha is trying to victimise herself. Sivabalaji asks her to stop making assumptions when she brings up something that happened days before. Archana and rest of the housemates later talk about how it would be if there was something like daily eliminations in the house. 
 
 Hariteja is sent into the store room and she finds her husband waiting there. They have a happy reunion, leaving Hariteja extremely happy. When the housemates are asked to freeze again, two men walk in and decide they will eat everything that’s cooking in the house. They serve themselves the sambar and fish that’s cooking and don’t eat because there’s no rice. They eat all the rasgullas saved and change their mind, deciding to eat without rice. Adarsh asks Bigg Boss to release Diksha as she’s a foodie and will not let the men steal. 
 
 They steal the cooked food and leave; the housemates are released right when they reach the gate. They all run to rescue their food, but the invaders escape. The housemates are all disappointed they stole their fish and hope Bigg Boss will lend them an extra special luxury budget this week. Navdeep’s sister walks in when the housemates remain frozen. 
 
