On Saturday evening,   looked more like Jantar Mantar, Delhi’s fave protest zone. After 21 restaurants were sealed on Saturday afternoon by the DPCC ( ) for violating pollution norms, restaurateurs organised a five-hour protest in the evening, appealing to surprised visitors to help them save Delhi’s nightlife.
While all the restaurants which were open decided to not play any music, songs like   and Teri Tanashahi Nahi Chalne Denge played right at the entrance of HKV. The protesting restaurateurs marched silently, holding posters and placards that read ‘HKV Dilli ki jaan hai’, ‘Save HKV’ and ‘Humarey acche din mat chheeno’. “Today’s protest is against the ‘sab band karao’ culture of the authorities,” Satinder Sarna, president,  , said.
 Sarna added, “This protest is to appeal to all the authorities to come together and help us save Hauz Khas Village. Closure is not the solution. The partygoers are our only hope now, we want to highlight our issues to them.”
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 Delhiites who visited HKV on Saturday night hoping to have a good time were quite disappointed when they saw that it turned into a protest zone. Vidushi Aggarwal, a college student, said, “When I entered HKV today, the vibe was missing. It just didn’t feel the same. There were over 100 protestors who had made a human chain, holding placards. Now, with a scene like this, who will feel like partying here? A Saturday night in HKV never felt like this. And it is already quite late and we can’t go to CP or Gurgaon, so we have cancelled tonight’s party plans. We won’t come here next Saturday. Kya fayda aane ka? Sab toh band ho jayega.”
 Priyambada Saran, an IT professional, told us, “I was not planning to go to any particular venue today, but just wanted to roam around. However, it is too quiet here to put us in a party mood. Since most places are closed here, we are heading to CP now.”
 
  
  HKV restaurateurs staged a protest on Saturday (BCCL)
 
  
  One of the protestors holds a placard appealing to visitors to help them save HKV (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Even though venues like Social and My Bar were open, their staff members had also joined the protest. A staff member of   told us, “Sab log poochh rahe hain ki Social bhi band hai kya? Hum toh bas support mein hain yahan.” 
 Many visitors even commented on how the vibe at HKV hasn’t been the same for the past one month. Sunny Verma, who lives in SDA market, told us, “It is not just this weekend. It has been quite dull here for the last three-four weeks. But when I walked in tonight, it felt like the protest zone at Jantar Mantar. I hope HKV will be back soon. The authorities and restaurateurs should work together to save Hauz Khas Village” 
 Some concerned visitors even asked staff members if they could do anything to help. Shail Chauhan, who had come to HKV to party, said, “When I asked these guys what I can do to help, they asked me to click photos and post them on social media. Since I’m not on social media, I’ll click photos and share them with my friends, who will post them online.”
  
  Not an ideal saturday night: Delhiites who visited HKV on Saturday night were disappointed to see that it had turned into a protest zone (BCCL)
 
  
  The protesting restaurateurs and their staff members (BCCL)
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
