NEW DELHI: It turned out to be a day of heartbreak for  . The 40-year-old trap shooter came agonizingly close to clinching his first   medal in a decade but missed a shot at a crucial juncture to settle for the fourth position at the   here on Saturday.

 After qualifying for the final in the fourth place, Zoravar had a near-perfect start in the medal round as he took an early lead. A miss before the start of the elimination round after 25 shots saw him drop to the third position. He maintained that position till two shooters were eliminated in the six-man final. He literally let a medal slip through his fingers when he missed a must-hit shot which led to his elimination while allowing 2010 World champion Alberto Fernandez of Spain to fight for the medals. The two were tied with 28 hits each but the Spaniard advanced as he was placed higher in the qualification round.
 
 "In shooting, the ones who handle pressure better win," a visibly disappointed Zoravar said after the contest. "I was shooting better than I did during the qualification on Friday . The conditions were better too, as it was less windy. Still I could not win a medal. That's the nature of this sport."
 
 The experienced Zoravar had two misses in his first 20 shots, but had as many as five misses in his last 15 shots.
 
  of Italy staved off a stiff challenge from multiple Olympic medallist and compatriot,  , to win the gold. Fernandez benefitted from Zoravar's meltdown to claim bronze.
 
 The hosts went medalless on Saturday as Neeraj Kumar too failed to finish on the podium despite qualifying for the final in the 25m rapid fire event. With Olympic medallist   competing in the MQS (Minimum Qualification Score) category, all focus was on the other Army man Neeraj. The 22-year-old raised hopes by making it to the final but a series of low-scoring shots saw him crash out first in the six-player final.
 
 "I am disappointed with the result. Some of the shots were not that bad, but they did not get me any points," he said.
 
