NEW DELHI: The war within AAP intensified on Tuesday with 
  submitting three set of complaints against Arvind   and other party leaders to the CBI.

 "I've registered three complaints. The first in connection with Rs 50 crore land deal of Arvind Kejriwal's relative. The second against the cash exchange of Rs 2 crore between Kejriwal and Satyendra Jain, and third against five AAP leaders who misused funds for foreign trips," he said after meeting CBI officials.
 
 He also demanded AAP leaders should put out the details of their foreign tours in public domain, while threatening to sit on a hunger strike if they refuse to do so.
 
 Earlier, responding to MIshra, Delhi CM   promised to expose a "larger conspiracy" on the issue raging in the country.
 
 "AAP leader Saurabh Bharadwaj will make the revelation in the Delhi assembly today," Kejriwal said in a tweet.
 
 
  Meanwhile, members of the BJP protested outside Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence. Protesters refused to leave even as police used water canons. BJP members raised slogans against Kejriwal and marched towards the Delhi CM residence. Protesters were demanding Kejriwal resignation following allegations of bribery and land scam against him. 
 
 Earlier in the day, Mishra had challenged the AAP chief to contest election against him.
 
 "You are trying to remove me from the assembly, I challenge you to contest the elections against me, from any seat. Let's fight the election from my   seat or even your New Delhi seat. If you believe that people are with you, then I am ready to resign," Mishra said while reading out a letter addressed to his 'Guru' Arvind Kejriwal. 
 
  
 
 In the letter, Mishra tells Kejriwal that he is going to lodge an FIR against the AAP chief today with a heavy heart.
 
 "I am writing this open letter to Arvind Kejriwal. I want to start by saying that I will be 
  today. Kejriwal ji, you know the deals that I am not talking about. I know everything that is happening; I will tell the CBI everything," Mishra said, adding, "I will do what he (Arvind Kejriwal) used to do."
 
 Mishra says sorry to Kejriwal and also seeks his blessings for his fight against corruption.
 
 "Today I am launching my crusade against the same Arvind Kejriwal, from whom I have learnt to fight against corruption, to fight for truth," Mishra said in the open letter. 
 
 "Since yesterday, I have received 211 complaints of corruption against party and the government. Whatever happened behind the veils in the past two years is painful. You along with few of your colleagues have broken trust of people," suspended   leader   claimed.
 
 Meanwhile, Delhi government has called for one-day special session of the Assembly today and it is expected to be a stormy affair.
 
 Kapil Mishra's 
  are likely to be strongly countered by the AAP MLAs in the assembly.
 
 Mishra also said that Kejriwal would try to defend his position and get his ministers to trumpet his tune of innocence but that will not help Delhi CM this time. 
 
 "Kejriwal will have the support of all AAP ministers while I am alone in this fight, " Mishra said, adding that it would not be a deterrent, as his will is strong.
 
 Yesterday, Mishra said he had shared with the ACB all the evidence related to the tanker scam that dates back to Congress leader Sheila Dikshit's tenure as chief minister.
 
 "I told the ACB officials how Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal deliberately delayed the report and how public money was misused.
 
 "Also, I told them how Kejriwal along with his two men affected the tanker scam probe. The government also tried to shield Sheila Dikshit again and again. ACB will call me again for a detailed investigation," he told reporters after the meeting," he said.
 
 The bombshell prompted 
  , but AAP stood solidly behind its leader, insisting there was no merit in the allegation.
 
 The Rs 400 crore tanker scam relates to alleged irregularities in the hiring of private tankers to supply water. 
 
 
 
 
