MUMBAI:   member and BJP functionary Subramanian   has shot off a letter to Justice  , the former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of India and the man who came up with the reforms in Indian crick et to firmly consider "e-tender" or "e-auction" as the way forward when the time comes for the cricket board to conduct the Indian Premier League ( ) media rights auction.

 Swamy has also marked the letter to the SC-appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA), who will be at the helm of affairs as   looks to tender media rights for the next five-year cycle. TOI had reported in October last year that stakeholders in the game were in favour of an e-tender e-auctions as the way forward to ensure absolute transparency.
 
 "India has seen two of the biggest scams in coal and spectrum allocation over the last decade due to non-transparency in process of allocation. The economic value with cricket rights is no less," Swamy wrote.
 
 This comes a day before the IPL governing council is scheduled to meet in New Delhi on Friday where a further call could be taken on the media rights tender alongside the tournament's title rights.
 
 TOI had reported last month CoA's decision to bring down the IPL media rights period for broadcast from ten years to five.
 
 "In my considered view, e-auctions ensure greater process control, increased transparency, shorter lead times and generate an extremely competitive price discovery environment resulting in substantial gains for the seller. The e-auction process has also been followed by the government of India for all major auctions," he added.
 
 There are other stakeholders in cricket too who believe that e-auctions are the way forward in all high value transactions and the IPL media rights for the next five-year cycle are set to be sold in the bracket of US$1.5-2b.
 
 The BCCI, with CEO   at the helm, has been firm on ensuring transparency as it goes about discovering the right market price for cricket's most valued property across the world.
 
