NAGPUR: After reports of lax functioning of   (MSBB) under the present chairman Vilas Bardekar, a Nashik-based   has demanded over Rs47 lakh from MSBB for creating 985 biodiversity management committees (BMCs).

 As per the Biological Diversity Act, 2002 and Biological Diversity Rules, 2004, every local self-government (LSG) has to constitute a biodiversity management committee ( ) within its area of jurisdiction.
 
 Accordingly,   (ABSS), was roped in by the MSBB on December 6, 2015 to constitute 300 BMCs in Nashik, Nandurbar, Palghar, Thane, and Dhule districts.
 
 The ABSS constituted more than 30 BMCs in each taluka in the above five districts. “We did not confine ourselves to constituting 300 BMCs as directed, but formed nearly 985 BMCs in 14 talukas looking into the demand from other villages too. The reports about the work were submitted time to time to the board,” says BD Wagh, retired divisional forest officer (DFO) and one of the promoters of ABSS.
 
 Wagh added ABSS was offered Rs4,800 for constituting one BMC. Till now no money has been released to the NGO despite several volunteers toiling hard to explain the biodiversity rules and constituting committees thereon.
 
 If Wagh is to be believed, for 1,000 BMCs the MSBB will have to shell out Rs47 lakh according to the agreed amount of Rs4,800 per BMC. Even if 300 BMCs are considered it comes to Rs14 lakh.
 
 As the board has stopped functioning since the last 14 months due to lack of strength and neglect at the top level, money was not released to ABSS. However, Wagh has hopes from PCCF VK Sinha, who took over as new member-secretary on Monday.
 
 “I’m reviewing all the issues. The board has received the letter submitted by ABSS. I don’t think funds will be an issue. I will look into the matter,” Sinha told TOI.
 
 Wagh says constituting these BMCs also had mandate from respective zilla parishads, which have now been asked to constitute BMCs at their level.
 
 “The BMCs are constituted to increase awareness about Biological Diversity Act, its importance sustainable use and its benefits. These committees act as environmental watch group and the NGO concerned should get its dues,” said Kishor Rithe, expert member on the MSBB.
 
 
