NAGPUR: On Monday, state board school students started their day in classrooms with a bright smile, saying ‘cheese’ for the camera. The ‘selfie with students’ mobile app made its presence felt across state affiliated schools as a step towards digitalization of student attendance. Class teachers took a   and submitted attendance details straight to the government database called SARAL.

 While the attendance part of the mobile app is functioning smoothly and most schools seemed happy with it, there were major apprehensions about the ‘selfie’ part. A principal said, “In one classroom there are 50 to 60 students, and it’s a major problem to take selfies. Half the people don’t even come in the frame and there’s no clarity in the photo as well because not everyone has a high quality camera.”
 
 The ‘selfie with students’ feature has been added in the attendance app so that there can be physical proof of students being present. A teacher said, “I seriously do not know how it will be helpful to the   department because it’s not really possible to see all faces clearly. If anyone wants to fudge data, students can be brought in from the next classroom to make it appear full.”
 
 A source in the education department told TOI that there’s a possibility of selfie feature being scrapped. “Anyway, the selfie is to be taken only on Mondays while the attendance is to be logged in daily as is the current practice in traditional system too. The selfie feature might be done away with in a month or so, but a lot of it depends on the feedback the government gets from all sections over this period,” the official said.
 
 The mobile attendance system will be helpful in keeping tabs on state-funded junior colleges that have tie-ups with private coaching classes. It’s an open secret that students attend only the coaching classes while the college authorities fabricate attendance records. The education department believes that the mobile app along with biometric attendance system, when fully implemented, will be a major blow to this coaching class-college nexus. 
 
 Schools, however, were pleased with the digital attendance system, which TOI had reported first. A principal said, “I hope the education department scraps the register system because this app method is very easy. Currently, we are registering attendance in both modes so it’s kind of redundant.”
 
 
