Madurai: Frustrated at the diminishing returns post implementation of the goods and services tax from July 1, Madurai Hoteliers Association has announced a novel protest of slashing food prices. Flex boards have been placed in front of restaurants at Mattuthavani stating that a full meal will now cost Rs 60 against the old rate of Rs 80. 

 On Friday, the hoteliers convened a meeting to discuss effects of   and to express their concerns to the government. They have also decided to take out various protests and the Sunday event was one among them. A medium-size restaurant which nets a revenue of Rs 20,000 to 30000 per day now suffers a drop of 40 %, said K L Kumar, president of Madurai Hoteliers Association. One of the major issues faced by restaurant owners is customers picking up argument over discrepancy in taxation. For instance, air-conditioned restaurants are charged 18 % GST. Most ordinary restaurants including small ones have a small air-conditioned section within them. Since non air-conditioned restaurants are levied 12 % GST, the hoteliers have to face the ire of customers dining there who protest on seeing 18 % GST on the bill. Moreover, the tax is split as CGST (Central GST) and SGST (State GST) causing confusion among the customers. 
 
 Another anomaly that hoteliers point out is that restaurants attached with bar are also taxed only 18 %. A lot of customers fret that it is not fare to treat both on the same tax slab. Dining with alcohol could be taxed at 28 % to dissuade people from dining and drinking out. The best part of the story is that many customers coming in groups simply walk out after enquiring about the tax. “From the usual question of what’s there to eat, now customers ask if there is tax. They simple walk out if we tell them GST is applicable”, lamented a restaurant owner. 
 
 Meanwhile, the restaurateurs’ loss seems to be the gain of roadside eateries where business seems to be picking up. “A lot of small restaurant owners are seriously contemplating to close down their units and shift to roadside tiffin and eateries because they don’t come under GST”, Kumar stated. 
 
 Kumar feels that people have not come to terms with paying tax for food. “They are okay with paying more on food expecting that its quality will be good. But when they see the tax component, they turn unhappy”, he says. For the ordinary public, it is distressing to see that food prices have gone up in the name of GST. “The gopi manchurian we used to buy at Rs 90 is priced at Rs 104 all on a sudden and the hotel people attribute it to GST”, rued R Shankar, a resident. 
 
 
