KOLKATA: In a month-and-half-long tournament like the   ( ), it's important to finish well irrespective of how a team starts. Both   and  , who face off in their last league encounter at Eden Gardens here on Saturday, started their campaign well but still have unfinished business at the fag end of the round-robin league stage. Mumbai, with 18 points, are assured of a playoff berth, while Kolkata (16 points) are well placed to grab one. No team, however, is guaranteed a top-two finish, and that is what all teams are targeting. The top two will clash in Qualifier 1 with the losers getting a second chance to make the final via Qualifier 2.

 As things stand, four teams -Knight Riders, Rising Pune Supergiant, Sunrisers Hyderabad and Kings XI Punjab -are in contention for three playoff berths. Kolkata's advantage is that fate is in their own hands. Victory will almost certainly seal a top-two finish for them, while they could go through even in the event of a loss, but only as the third or fourth team.
 
 Ditto for table-toppers Mumbai, as defeat could push them to third place if Pune win their remaining two matches. In that respect, Saturday's game is a must-win tie for both teams.
 
  and his boys must have realised that nothing can be taken for granted after Kings XI Punjab snatched a thrilling win against Mumbai on Thursday to keep breathing down their neck. But it's important for the teams to ignore all mathematical possibilities and focus on their cricket only so that they can get a positive result. Kolkata's batting, which was thought to have got a leg up after opener Chris Lynn returned from injury, looked unsettled in their last match against Punjab. And this, after Lynn and   put up the highest power play score (1050) in IPL history, in the match against Royal Challengers Bangalore.
 
 Both openers can't be expected to fire on all cylinders from the word go every day. It might be prudent for inform skipper Gambhir to return as opener and anchor the innings from one end. Kolkata have missed a consistent finisher this season, though their strength is that somebody or the other stands up to be counted in a situation of crisis.
 
 Mumbai's batting got a boost with West Indian Lendl Simmons settling down well in the opening slot as Jos Buttler's replacement in the last three matches. They can be dangerous with Simmons. 
 
