LUCKNOW: Ramendra Sarin (70), famed director of the award-winning serial `Bibi Natiyon Wali', which was a rage in early 80s, was found dead in mysterious circumstances outside a liquor shop in Jankipuram on Saturday morning.

 Sarin stayed at an old age home in Janaki Vihar of Jankipuram. He left for his morning walk around 6.30am on Saturday . When he did not return, caretaker Arvind Dixit went to search for him but in vain. In the meantime, Anurag Jaiswal, who works at a liquor shop in Jankipuram, informed police that an elderly man died after consuming liquor outside his shop around 9am. SHO, Jankipuram, Satish Sinha, said prima facie it appears that Sarin suffered a heart attack after he gulped alcohol and died.
 
 But the exact cause of death would be known after the autopsy , SHO added. Sarin came to Lucknow in 2005 after his retirement as director of Bareilly Doordarshan. He moved to the old age home two years ago when his son Gaurav relocated to Canada with his family .
 
 `Bibi Natiyon Wali', Door darshan Lucknow's first serial, was written by satirist KP Saxena. The serial was based on Lucknow's Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb. An instant hit, the serial was also telecast on the national network and won the award for best producer and director in 1985.
 
 Later, it was dubbed in many languages and telecast by the BBC. The first five episodes were directed by Sushil Singh while remaining ones were directed by Sarin. Sarin, who hailed from Bahraich, was also an acclaimed documentary maker. His works were also been adopted by Japanese production houses.  , proA garmme executive at  , had clicked Sarin just four days ago. “Sarin had a remarkable career till 2000; he assisted in telecast of Mahakumbh, and “Kalyani“, an awareness programme of government, was successful because of his endeavours and technical support,“ said Mishra.
 
 “I had very good relations with Romy , as I fondly called him, and his wife. He was a gentleman with a broken heart who took to drinking in the later years of his life. He went into oblivion about 10 years ago. But last year, I got a call from him saying he wanted to meet and talk. Sadly, that meeting never happened. He had also set up a school for film production and acting in Aliganj,“ recalled noted theatre actor-director  , who even acted in some episodes of `Biwi Natiyon Wali'.
 
 Senior cameraman of DD Lucknow, Adarsh Garg, remebered Sarin as an intelligent and creative director and producer.
 
 Ashraf Hussain, former producer at Doordarshan, who had worked with Sarin, told TOI that he had a knack of picking the apt artist for a particular role. Hussain shared that Sarin remarried after his first wife committed suicide but the second marriage did not last long. Sarin had two sons from his first marriage. One son committed suicide and the other son, Gaurav, is now settled in Canada, Hussain added. Madan Krishna, former news pro ducer at Doordarshan, called him “a master of vi sual arts ho had an innate ability to judge actors“.
 
 “He was very meticulous in planning, a very broad minded person with a gift ed sense of humour,“ Krishna said.
 
 “He gave the Lucknow audience some very cre ative serials and plays during his stint at Doordarshan Lucknow. “He was among the most creative programmers at Doordarshan,“ said Arun Trivedi, former director and senior faculty at  .
 
 “He took his job not just as a job but as a creative outlet. He was the finest producer who knew his work in great detail and always encouraged new comers like me,“ recalled DD programming head said Rama Trivedi.
 
