TRICHY: The failure of monsoon and resultant water shortage have taken a toll of   production in the region leading to a leap in their prices in the wholesale and retail markets in the city. Almost all vegetables have become dearer by Rs 10 to Rs 15 per kilogram. 

 Brinjal, available cheaply not long ago, is being sold at Rs 80 to Rs 100 per kilogram in the retail market for the last few days and Rs 55 to Rs 65 a kilogram in the wholesale market. . 
 
 The price of ladies finger was a little lower than that of brinjal. A kilogram of the vegetable is being sold at Rs 75 to Rs 80 in the retail market in Woraiyur and for Rs 55 to Rs 60 at   at   in the city. Broad beans costs Rs 80 a kilogram. Brinjal from Manapparai caters to all markets in Trichy including Uzhavar Sandhai. But the arrival from Manapparai has not been meeting the required volume for the last one week, says N Ganapathi, a retail vegetable vendor in Woraiyur. 
 
 “We are getting local vegetables such as brinjal, lady’s finger, broad beans, bitter gourd, bottle gourd, snake gourd, radish, cluster beans and coriander leaves from Manapparai, Allithurai, Somarasampettai, Posampatti, Kuzhumani, Jeeyapuram and Mannachanallur. But due to arrival in low quantity, we have been forced to hike the prices”, he further said. 
 
 R Ramesh, K R Vegetable Commission Mandi in Gandhi Market, said that for the last few years they had been witnessing a large chunk of local vegetables arriving from the outskirts of the district. “Farmers who had been carrying out paddy cultivation on their land were forced to shift to vegetables for their livelihood as there was no water to take up paddy. That was the reason the prices of local vegetables were low till the end of January. However, due to the depleting ground water table thanks to monsoon failure, they could not cultivate much ”, said Ramesh.
 
 P Laxmi, 56, hailing from Kunnupatti village near Thuraiyur and a vendor in Uzhavar Sandhai, said she could not produce the required quantity of vegetables as they did last year due to water shortage. The prices were moderate then as markets were flooded with vegetables.
 
 G Balasubramaniam, GMB Vegetables and Fruits Commission Agent in Gandhi Market, said there was no chance of the prices of vegetable coming down in the near future. The price would definitely go up further as the summer set in. “Farmers have so far managed to carry out vegetable cultivation despite water shortage. There is no chance of that anymore in Trichy district”, he said. 
 
