Panaji: Old Goa’s core area and the temple site in Chandor are protected as heritage sites, but Gopakpattan as the third historic   is slowly being eroded of its archaeological signatures due to neglect and lack of political vision.

 With the Regional Plan (RP) 2021 in the doldrums, the old, sheltered 5-km-long port area of the Shilaharas and Kadambas, from Dandi in Agasaim to Kharosai in Goa Velha is losing some of its vestiges. The crumbling ruins and remains of arches can still be lying scattered in Dandi on the banks of River Zuari.
 
 “These could be the remains of the arches of the Gopakpattan port entrance of the Kadamba era,” Fr Cosme Jose Costa, a historian said.
 
 A few sites, a fort wall, the ‘Kadambrayachi tolli’, the 65-feet-broad Rajbida passage from the old port to Old Goaand ruins of what appears to be a palace, lie scattered in both, Agasaim and Goa Velha. Heritage lovers and activists keep returning here and find, with increasing disappointment, the sites fading into oblivion due to lack of conservation measures.
 
 “Unlike Chandor and Old Goa, not a single site of Gopakpattan is protected,” president of Goa heritage action group (GHAG), Prajal Sakhardande, said. 
 
 The remains of the arches in Dandi lie scattered in the compound of the Portuguese era’s captain of ports, Dom Manuel Carcomo Lobo. His old residence, a chapel, and the fast shrinking structure of a seventh century St Thomas Cross with inscriptions in Pahlavi language used by Persian traders, indicate just how multi-layered the port’s history is.
 
 Officials of state department of archives and archaeology (DAA) and archaeological survey of India (ASI) pass the buck between themselves about failure to notify any of the sites. “The ASI initiated the process a few decades back,” said DAA former director, P P Shirodkar. ASI officials said they were unaware about it.
 
 A proposal for a study by the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) to explore the remains of Gopakpattan, which was submitted to the central government, is still being considered.
 
 Heritage activists are pleading that the process for protecting of a few sites be initiated. “We had suggested marking of these sites on RP 2021, as they have faced neglect. Either the ASI or the DAA should take up the matter as early as possible,” Sakhardande said.
 
 
