THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Despite government attempts to bring water from Neyyar, the entire city is looking at   for its daily water needs. The current water level of 90.05 metres at Peppara dam paints a scary picture. Already pumping to city has been affected by dipping water level in Peppara dam. If Peppara hits dead storage of 86 metres, 10 lakh people in the city will be badly affected. 

 Despite using dredgers and pumps, a significant amount of water has not reached Peppara so far. Instead, level of water in Aruvikkara has depleted, affecting the normal pumping from Aruvikkara. The water level of Aruvikkara has to be maintained at 46 metres. Due to dip in this level, there is disruption in functioning of one of the pumps at Aruvikkara.
 
 Though city and nearby areas enjoyed considerable summer showers, no rain was reported in the catchment area of Peppara. Except a one-hour rain reported on Tuesday that made a mere 10cm improvement in the water level, the level is falling drastically on a daily basis. The water, which was initially discharged through the shutters and later through penstock pipe for 3MV power generation, is now being released through the dispersion valve at the bottom. As a major portion of the valve is exposed, water released is not used as usual for power generation for fear of forming air pockets. 
 
 The Kerala water authority, meanwhile, is planning to open the dispersion valve further so as to release more water into Aruvikkara. However, sources said that this move would cause serious impact on availability of water at Peppara. “It is important to save water at Peppara. Disruption in pumping might create water supply disruptions in some areas. However, this could be compensated by supply through tankers or other means. Once, the level at Peppara hits the dead storage, there will be severe crisis in the city,” sources said. 
 
 Though KWA plans to bring around 100 million litres of water from Neyyar, the predicted water has not reached   so far. As per latest estimate, water at Peppara will be available for two more weeks.
 
 When Peppara dam was commissioned in 1983, the full reservoir level was kept at 101.5 metres. However, initially the level was maintained at 104.5 by placing shutters at the level. This was later revised to 107.5 two years ago with the intervention of the then district collector Biju Prabhakar. KWA’s move to raise the height to 110.5 metres is facing opposition from Union environment ministry over the issue of expected submergence of forest area. 
 
