BHOPAL:   is shying away from   on  . The government has for the third time rejected prisons department’s proposal for jammers without citing convincing answers.

 The effort was aimed at checking clandestine use of mobile phones by inmates in the wake of beefed-up security measures, post-SIMI jailbreak. Insiders say ‘VIP’ prisoners are reason behind the act.
 
 In 2011-12, a proposal to install mobile phone jammers in four central jails of Madhya Pradesh: Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur and Gwalior was initiated, but later it was shelved by secretariat officials.
 
 Technical reasons like it can affect wireless communication and mobile phone communication in localities close to jails were given against installation of jammers in jails.
 
 Last year in May-June, trials for jammers were conducted in Bhopal Central Jail. The jammers were installed at 21 places and after the trials, it was said starting from Bhopal Central Jail, jammers will be installed in other jails of the state.
 
 The suggestion to install mobile phone jammers in the jails was made after mobile phones were recovered during raids in Gwalior jail and from an inmate in Indore Central Jail.
 
 On October 30 last year, eight alleged SIMI operatives killed a jail guard and escaped. However, they were killed in an exchange of fire with police in a few hours. Later, several initiatives were decided to be taken for enhancing security in jails. These included electric fencing, installing new CCTV cameras, installing mobile phone jammers, but most of these are pending for approval from the finance department and a proposal for installing mobile phone jammers has been rejected.
 
 Former DGP SC Tripathi said, “Mobile phone jammers are important to keep a check on communications made by the inmates, but only government could say why the proposal to install them is being rejected. Instruments are costly and it could be one of reasons.”
 
 DG (prisons) Sanjay Chaudhary confirmed the recent proposal for installing jammers has been rejected. He said, “We will submit a fresh proposal in the next budget.” The senior official refused to divulge anything further.
 
 When TOI contacted additional chief secretary AP Shrivastav, he refused to comment on the issue, except for saying, it is official matter.
 
