MUMBAI: The Mumbai division of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education on Friday afternoon registered a complaint with the Vashi police about the   being circulated on a messaging site about 20 minutes before the exam on Thursday.

 Education minister Vinod Tawde spoke to the joint commissioner of the cyber cell and asked him to trace the origin of the question paper leak in two days.
 
 “The HSC board secretary has submitted an application seeking an inquiry into the leak of an HSC question paper on Thursday . It will be forwarded to the cybercrime cell of Navi Mumbai police for investigation... After the cell submits its report, an FIR will be registered,“ said Ajay Landge, senior inspector of Vashi police station.
 
 “We verified that the paper being circulated was the one that students were appearing for. We have registered a complaint with the police and are waiting for an update,“ said  , chairperson of the Mumbai division.
 
 Officials said it is possible the chain of pictures on WhatsApp did not originate in Mum bai since they have strictly warned teachers and officials. “These days, it hardly takes a few minutes for content to go viral, so there's a chance the images were not clicked or sent from Mumbai. We have been giving repeated instructions to the exam conductors to not indulge in wrongdoings,“ said  , secretary of the Mumbai division.
 
 He ruled out the possibility of a re-exam because the reach of the leak was limited to a few.Following reports of images of the paper being circulated on social media, the board asked exam conductors and centre in-charges to be more alert.
 
 “Nobody is allowed to carry mobile phones to exam halls. In case an invigilator doubts that a student is carrying a mobile phone, he can be checked. Centre in-charge and supervisors have been asked to be more vigilant,“ said Chandekar.
 
 Teachers said they hadn't expected such largescale malpractice during language papers.“This year, the board had introduced an activity-based question paper for languages and it was expected that students could write on their own without rote learning but the objective seems defeated,“ said Uday Nare, teacher at Hansraj Morarji Public School, Andheri.
 
 (With inputs from George Mendonca in Navi Mumbai)
 
 
 
 
 The Maharashtra State Junior College Teachers Association, which claims to have 72,000 members, began their protest with noncooperation on assessment. The examiners accepted the answersheets sent to them for correction on Friday, but said they would assess only one paper starting Saturday. The association's talks with education minister Vinod Tawde did not yield the desired result.
 
