NEW DELHI:   was attacked on Wednesday evening by a man who arrived around 5.30pm at his residence in Civil Lines, where the party rebel is on an indefinite hunger strike over corruption charges he has levelled against chief minister   and his party colleagues. 

 Witnesses said the man walked up to Mishra and said the charges against Kejriwal were false. Before Mishra could reply, the man allegedly grabbed him by his collar. Mishra’s supporters rushed to his aid and overpowered the attacker and beat him up. 
 
 In the melee, the attacker, wearing a green T-shirt, identified himself as  , an AAP member. Soon, an   claimed the man was a member of  , which was quickly denied by BJP. A police officer said a team of cops rescued the attacker and took him to the Civil Lines police station. He was later admitted to the Civil Lines trauma centre for treatment.
 
 A case of assault (section 323 of IPC) and criminal intimidation (section 506) has been registered against Bhardwaj. He is likely to be arrested. A police officer Bhardwaj claimed to be an AAP member and a volunteer at a mohalla clinic near Moti Nagar. He is a resident of Mundka in outer Delhi and had come to Mishra’s house with some other people. “I do not want to blame anybody for this. God give wisdom to the attacker,” said Mishra, who forbade his supporters from striking back. “I will quit taking even water if any of my supporters tries to retaliate to the attack,” he said. He claimed to have got a threat call on Tuesday night from an international number, but said he is not afraid.
 
 Soon, a controversy broke out over the identity of the attacker with an AAP functionary condemning the attack and claiming that Bhardwaj was a member of BJP’s youth wing, Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM), and that the attack was a conspiracy hatched by BJP. The BJP was quick to deny this. Harish Khurana, state BJP spokesperson, said: “He is not a BJP member but coordinator of a mohalla clinic. We condemn the attack on Kapil Mishra. There should a proper investigation into it.”
 
 BJP said AAP was trying to deflect attention from the real issues. “I was at home (in Trinagar) when I got a call from party members saying that AAP was claiming that I have attacked Mishra. This is nothing but tactics of AAP to divert attention from the real issues,” said the attacker’s namesake, Ankit Bhardwaj, who is indeed a member of BJYM, over phone. 
 
 The party later circulated a video claiming it showed that the attacker was at an AAP rally in Mundka.
 
