HUBBALLI: In the wake of increase in incidence of molestation, the   will increase patrolling. The twin cities   has initiated several plans and decided to strengthen the  , an exclusive   team, by deploying young and fresh female  . 

 Some recently posted women police constables will be part of the squad. Speaking to TOI, Pandurang Rane, commissioner of police, said: “The recent cases reported in Bengaluru are entirely different, but we have decided to intensify security measures exclusively for women in Hubballi-Dharwad. We have decided to replace the existing women police constables deployed in the Channamma Squad with fresh women police constables who have already completed their training.” 
 
 The fresh recruits will be imparted special training pertaining to handing women-related cases.
 
  “Soon, the new teams will start functioning in Hubballi and Dharwad,” said Rane.
 
 In 2014, the Hubballi-Dharwad police commissionerate launched Channamma Police Vehicle to keep an eye on eve-teasers and other miscreants who harass women. Since then, the two vehicles mounted with surveillance camera are patrolling all vulnerable places in the twin cities. 
 
 The vehicles visit schools, colleges, malls, shopping complexes and other places where the chances of eve-teasing and other forms of harassment are more.
 
 The patrolling vehicles operate in two shifts. At 8am, a vehicle continues its first shift till 2pm and the second operates from 2pm to 9pm.
 
  During these periods, a vehicle consists of a seven-member team, including women police constables and head constables working under the supervision of a female ASI. The cameras fitted to the vehicles are with pan-tilt-zoom cameras which rotate 360 degree and cover up to 500m and 100m IR (infrared recording). 
 
 Sources said that due to the fear of Channamma Squad, eve-teasing and other harassment against women has disappeared in front of colleges, commercial establishments and malls. The squad’s functioning is hampered when it is used for security purpose during protests. Rane said that the squad will exclusively work on women’s safety, except during some special purpose security.
 
