GHAZIABAD: The RWA of   in  , Indirapuram, has come out with a list of dos and don’ts for   in their society’s RWA manual on Friday, which were opposed by many residents of the society as well as by others on social media.

 The rules, published in the housing society’s magazine, say: “If a new family with a pet dog or any other animal is seeking to rent a flat in the society, they should seek permission from the neighbours before they move in. It will be mandatory to use a mouth net for the pets before stepping out of the flats. The dogs should maintain a distance of three metres from kids while venturing through the society, and dog owners should use the service lift instead of the main lift in order to keep the pets away from children.”
 
 They were termed downright “nonsensical” by several residents. Apart from earning the wrath of many pet owners in the society and the township at large, the rules also attracted widespread criticism online after a Facebook post on the list went viral. 
 
 A pet owner living in Supertech Livingston Society, on condition of anonymity, said, “This reaction to pet owners for any possible threat to the society residents and children is extremely exaggerated. I don't understand why they are putting out these rules.”
 
 Pooja Srivastava, who lives in Ajnara Gen-X, another residential society in Crossings Republik, told TOI, “These rules are completely nonsensical. I can’t believe these people had the nerve to publish them in the society’s magazine. They are encroaching on people’s private space and are violating their right to live by choice. The rule on needing permission from a neighbour to keep a dog is tantamount to saying people cannot have children because they cry and make noise.”
 
 Irate residents said the list violates the guidelines prescribed by the   under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act (PCA), 1960. The list says a fine of Rs 500 will be charged from the pet owner for non-compliance with the rules or at a time of any offence, which is prohibited under the PCA Act.
 
 Sumedha Iyer, district president, People for Animals (PFA), said, “We are going to file a police complaint against the RWA members of this society, and also complain to the   because they are violating the residents’ human rights. The rule about muzzling (mouth net) the dog each time it leaves the house is scientifically impossible because it acts as a deterrent in the excretory cycle of the animal and if the dog cannot sniff, it cannot defecate.” Residents also maintained that the UP Apartment Act states that pet owners have the right and liberty to use any lift in the society along with their pets. “And if they expect someone to measure whether the distance between a pet and a child is three metres or not, they should use a measuring tape themselves and do it,” a resident of the society said under condition of anonymity.
 
 However, the society’s RWA said the rules were only a proposal. “We are very liberal and tolerant people. These rules have only been laid out to garner people’s opinion about them. These rules are in the drafting phase and nothing has been formally decided as yet,” said Sudhir Mishra, president of Supertech Livingston Society RWA.
 
 When asked about seeking approval from the authorities for these rules to be implemented, he said, “We usually approve things like these in a general body meeting, but this is a matter of discussion and has not been finalised so far.”
 
