NAGPUR: Zonal DCP  , now transferred as SP Amravati rural in the latest statewide reshuffle of senior officers earlier this week, had sought opinion from the office of the District government pleader (DGP) on the issue of invoking stringent Maharashtra control of organized crime Act (MCOCA) in the murder case of  

  The firebrand IPS officer of 2007-batch had sent the letter around few days back but may have to leave without completing the task he had kicked off to reign in city’s one of the most influential politically sheltered goon. 
 
 Ambekar, already booked four times under MCOCA in the past, may just be lucky this time with the procedural delays coming as his saviour from the no-nonsense officer. Ambekar, who is learnt to be holed up in Mumbai, was made an accused in the   for his complicity in criminal conspiracy. The case, now being chargesheeted, has nine accused in all including Ambekar.
 
  There was already a speculation regarding Ambekar’s involvement in Gawande’s murder in January earlier this year as the slain goon was an arch-rival of the gangster.
 
 Sources from police department said that DCP Kumar had sent the letter addressed to Special PP for MCOCA Vijay Kohle, who has vast experience in dealing cases under the provision, as a logical step before applying the sections in the murder case. The reply is now awaited from the DGP’s office.
 
 DGP Nitin Telgote said the reply would be sent soon after perusing the documents and records of the particular case. “We can furnish reply in affirmative only if there is sufficient ground for the provisions to be invoked,” he said. 
 
 DCP Kumar, whose transfer order learnt to have brought a wave of euphoria among city goons and racketeers, had earlier taken action against Ambekar’s body guard having a firearm with a license of questionable authenticity. Even the Kamptee-based gangster-turned-politician   too was booked under Arms case after DCP Kumar was shifted to the newly formed Zone V. 
 
 Apart from DCP Kumar, Zonal DCP Rakesh Kalasagar’s transfer also brought a sense of respite for the land grabber Dilip Gwalbanshi and his gang who are already booked in a half dozen case of cheating and forgery. Kalasagar has been transferred as SP Akola. 
 
 
