RANCHI: The final food menu for the Global Investors’ Summit to be held on February 16-17, was decided on Monday which included a variety of tribal, Indian and international cuisines. More than 100 types of dishes, salads, drinks and desserts will be served at the venue on the occasion.

 The catering job has been delegated to  . “We have received an order of 4000 plates for lunch, 300 plates for dinner and hi-tea for 1000 people on day-one and for the day-two we have been told to provide lunch for 1500 and hi-tea for 300,” said  , owner of the restaurant.
 
 While chefs from the restaurant will be preparing tribal and Indian food, chefs from Delhi are also being called upon for preparing international cuisines.
 
 Traditional Jharkhand food listed in the menu are- Maithan chicken curry, Ranchi mutton curry, brown rice, laal saag, pittha, barra, dhuska, alu chaney ki sabji, lahsun ki chutney, litti chokha and thekuwa. 
 
 Indian cuisine include Kahre Masale Ke Alu, Vegetable Besar, Paneer Lababdar, Arhar Daal Tadka, Butter Chicken, Mutton Kassa, Mutton Rezalla, Chicken Labadar, Palak Corn Melody, Methi Malai Mutter, Paneer Taka-Tak in Brown Gravy, Daal Makhani, Sukhi Daal, Pudina Paratha, Masala Rumali Roti, Jibya Naan, Tandoori Laccha Paratha and others.
 
 There is also a special international and oriental menu for the foreign delegates arriving at GIS. The international menu includes Shepherd’s Pie, Broccoli Morney, Vegetable Mousakka, Baked Tomato and Potatoes Wedges, Grilled Fish in Lemon Butter Sauce, Mashed Potatoes, Grilled Tomato Basil, Chicken Steak in Red Wine Sauce, Herb Fried Potato Wedges and Vegetable Stroganoff along with a variety of breads.
 
 Oriental menu on the other hand, includes Vegetable Hakka Noodles, Chicken in Oyster Sauce, Exotic Vegetables in Black Bean Sauce, Mongolian Bowl Rice and Noodles, Vegetable Dimsum, Chicken Dimsum, Khowsway, Herb Butter Rice, Exotic Stir Fried Vegetables and Cottage Cheese in Ginger Oyster Sauce.
 
 With numerous international dishes on the menu, getting the ingredients for all of them is not an easy task. “There are many ingredients, especial herbs which are not available here in Ranchi so we are getting things from Kolkata and Delhi,” Bhatia said
 
 
