NEW DELHI: Teachers at Aryabhatta College in Delhi University’s   say with some consternation that their college may not get too many applications for admission when the new session begins in a few weeks. And no, this is not because of a slide in academic quality or the discontinuation of some courses. Rather, the ongoing   of a Delhi   line and an underpass in the area have not only made the college — and the others in its vicinity — difficult to locate, but also created a mess of both moving traffic and parking facilities.

 “Lack of public transport facilities in South Campus has always been an issue,” explained an administrative officer of Aryabhatta College. “Students tend to pick their colleges based on connectivity and proximity to Ring  .”
 
 By this token, the South Campus colleges are actually well located, close to Ring Road going towards Dhaula Kuan. However, for two years now, the streets there have turned into chaotic construction sites. While excavation work for Delhi Metro’s   has hampered access to Sri Venkateswara College and Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma (ARSD) College, the construction of an underpass on Benito Juarez Marg has created problems for students and vehicles going towards the colleges to the south-east of Ring Road.
 
 “Traffic mismanagement is the main problem affecting our staff and students, especially during peak hours when the narrow lane outside the college is choked. The cars parked on the road only worsen the problem,” said P Hemalatha Reddy, principal of Venkateswara.
 
 While the Pink Line, designed to connect the South Campus colleges, is tentatively scheduled to open by the end of this year, the underpass, started in 2016, may become operational only from June 2018.
 
 Till then, in heat and rain, students have been gingerly stepping past the barriers put up by Delhi Metro and PWD and descending to the construction sites to cross the roads. The other option is to walk a couple of kilometres around the Ring Road flyover to breach the 200-metre gap. “This is a problem when the temperature is over 40 degrees Celsius,” grumbled Pranjul Shivhar, an electrical engineering student at Venkateswara.
 
 Almost the entire street along South Campus has become a one-way lane. The clogged road restricts all movement — of pedestrians and vehicles alike — towards the other colleges or Satya Niketan market. “There is hardly any place to park a car. It is also difficult go from one college to another, so unlike in North Campus, campus life here isn’t as vibrant,” Aditya Jhalani, a commerce student at ARSD, pointed out.
 
 Like the staff at Aryabhatta, teachers in ARSD said that the ugly Delhi Metro barriers placed at the college entrance blocked all views of the institution. “People are unable to locate the college gates due to the barriers,” said Vineet Kumar Mishra, administrative officer at the college. “We only hope the metro project gets completed by the end of this year.” 
 
 
