PUNE: All it takes is a few heavy showers for the   in Pune to  . Such is the condition of streets across the city that   wonder what happened to the tarring and repairs conducted in the run-up to the  . Pune Municipal Corporation has a budget of Rs 10 to Rs 15 crores for roads, including asphalting them. 

 Ramesh Paigude rides his autorickshaw to Swargate at least three times a day to drop passengers. The Swargate–Sarasbaug Road stretch is a nightmare for him. There are huge   dotting the road that he has to dodge every time he is driving through. Paidgude said the potholes have not only made rides bumpy but were affecting his passengers.
 
 A similar situation is what commuters face on Shivaji Road near Vasant Cinema where the surface of the road has been damaged and potholes are trying the patience of vehicle riders. If not repaired now, the condition of roads is likely to worsen in the coming days.
 
 It has deteriorated in several areas in the last few days after the city witnessed significant rain. Though the much expected showers brought good news as it increased water storage in the dams catering to Pune city, it led to waterlogging and road damage.
 
 Commuters said waterlogging is common across the city and the accumulated water was damaging the road surface leading to potholes.
 
 Two barricades have been put up on Swargate-Sarasbaug Road to alert drives to slow down their vehicles because of the potholes. Sheetal Shah, who drove on the stretch on Monday, said she had a tough time negotiating potholes while ferrying her child as a pillion. 
 
 Commuters said the situation is worse in the outskirts. Sus Road and other roads in Kharadi area are badly damaged. Viraj Rao, a regular commuter who lives in Kharadi, said many bylanes and approach roads to the main road are in a poor condition. 
 
 Their state has worsened especially after the recent rains because of the stagnant water on the roads, he said. 
 
 Sus Road area residents face a lot of trouble because of the potholed roads. Vijay Jaju, a supplier of building materials, said drivers of tempo and other goods carriers were unwilling to travel to the area and were demanding additional fare on the roads which were not in a good condition.
 
 Civic officials said they have told ward offices to take up repairs.
 
