AHMEDABAD: A petition in Gujarat high court on Wednesday claimed that a driver with the Gujarat energy and petrochemicals department was appointed project assistant for the state government’s ambitious Charanka   Project.

 Demanding an inquiry and action against the culprits for the alleged Rs 500 crore scam in the implementation of the project, petitioner Farsu Goklani, a social worker from North Gujarat, placed documents before the court showing how a class IV employee, Bharatgiri Goswami, was shown as a class II officer and given a huge responsibility in the multi-crore project.
 
 The HC is to hear the matter now on March 1.
 
 The petition claims that immediately after Goswami’s appointment as project assistant in the project, he bought properties worth crores at Pethapur village near Gandhinagar. Goklani provided details of purchases made by Goswami in partnership with Gautam Bhesania, who is the son of the Junagadh BJP MLA and director of  .
 
 Goklani also submitted details of contracts worth Rs 30 crore awarded to Rati Engineering in the project. “This proves the nexus between politicians and government officers… Right from the beginning of the  , there was rampant corruption and malpractices,” the petitioner claimed.
 
 The petitioner also mentioned that Goswami recently was booked for having disproportionate properties, after ACB found out about his Rs 11.56-crore property deals. The petitioner also urged the high court to question the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) for not probing his complaint.
 
 Earlier, Goklani had filed a PIL seeking an inquiry into and action on the awarding of contracts to selected people by the “limited tendering” process in this project.
 
 A couple of years ago, Goklani sought a probe into land deals that took place before and during the implementation of the solar project in and around Charanka village. The HC asked the government to conduct an inquiry and the report exonerated former chief secretary and MD of the project, D G Pandian.
 
 
