BHOPAL: Over two lakh people in 6 wards of the old city are forced to go without water on Saturday for no fault of theirs. The problem is likely to persist for next 48 hours. On Saturday morning, drilling work carried out by a private contractor damaged the existing pipeline, triggering   in areas which get supply from Idgah pumping station. The contractor has been entrusted with laying new pipeline from Karbala along VIP Road to Idgah Hills pumping station. The Rs 6 crore project has been earmarked for laying new pipeline from Karbala to Idgah Hills. 

 The affected areas are Koh-e-Fiza, Idgah Hills, Hamidia Hospital, Shahjehanabad and towards Lal Ghati. Close to 10 million gallons of water is drawn from the Upper Lake and pumped to Idgah Hills filtration plant before these wards get the supply. Installed in 1908, Idgah pipeline was once the mainstay of water supply in the city. 
 
 On Saturday afternoon, local corporators cutting across party lines protested against Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials for inaction over damage to the pipeline. They alleged heavy machinery was used to drill, leading to damage to the old pipeline at many places. 
 
 “The incident took place on Friday night, when drilling by the private contractor damaged the old pipeline. More than two lakh people across 6 wards will not get water for next three days,” said BMC corporator and local BJP leader Mahesh Makwana. 
 
 Corporators from the Congress, the BJP and independent corporator Mohammed Saud resorted to road bloacade of the Karbala pumping station to draw the attention of BMC officials to the problem. BMC water in-charge AK Pawar did not reach the spot nor did receive calls from the protesting corporators, they alleged. 
 
 Later, senior BMC official   reached the location near Karbala to pacify agitated corporatos. “There is one major drill in the old pipeline. It would be repaired by midnight on Saturday. We expect regular water supply to resume thereafter,” Nigam said.
 
 After assurances from Nigam, BMC corporators returned to their respective wards. “There have been over dozen such breaks in pipeline caused by the private contractor. Guidelines are not being implemented. The BMC does not know where old pipelines are laid,” alleged Makwana.
 
 Last year, the BMC addressed the issue of modernisation of old water supply network at Kolar and Idgah pumping stations. However, the process is expected to last beyond this summer season. 
 The realisation and the need for laying of new pipeline for Karbala has come about as Narmada pipeline has failed to deliver. Over 100 km of pipeline laid for Narmada water supply in the city is unutilised.
 
