THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:  , who took charge as KPCC’s interim president at the party headquarters here on Sunday, said his immediate duty is to ensure UDF’s victory in the Malappuram byelection, with an increased margin. He added that building a strong mass base for the party through booth-level committees was also his priority.

  “Malappuram byelection is my first big challenge. It has to be a verdict against the insult meted out to the late MP E Ahamed by the Centre. The UDF’s state leaders are already camping in the constituency and I will be joining them after two days,” he said, addressing the party leaders and workers who gathered at the party headquarters. 
 
 Hassan said he was also happy to have the blessings of leaders like A K Antony, Oommen Chandy,   and  . “My aim is to strengthen the party and I ask for support from everybody. The party has to reach out to the masses to rebuild its mass base, for which the former   has already initiated booth-level committees,” he pointed out.
 
 Speaking strongly against ‘groupism’ in the party, Hassan said there’s no ‘magic’ left to restore the party’s lost glory but only ‘hard work’. “I will hold interests of the party above that of groups, and use all the experience I could garner over 50 years of my political career for the betterment of the party,” he said.
 
  Sudheeran, while handing over the charge to Hassan, said: “This election has attained national significance, as it’s a verdict against the communal fascism of the BJP and the political fascism of the CPM.” 
 
  Among others who felicitated the new president on the occasion were opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, Thennala G Balakrishnan Pillai, Vakkom Purushothaman and MLAs K Muraleedharan, K C Joseph and V D Satheesan.
 
  Later, at a media camp organized by the state youth welfare board, Hassan told journalism students that the media was losing its credibility. “The media, especially after the entry of visual and new media is using politics for their business and survival,” he added. 
 
 
