COIMBATORE: A 39-year-old woman was killed after a speeding motorcycle hit her while she was trying to cross the Avinashi Road in front of   (KMCH) here on Thursday morning. A two-year-old girl, her mother and two persons, including the bike rider, were also critically injured in the incident.

 The deceased was identified as Y Rajathi, of Kamatchipuram in Tirupur district. Traffic investigation wing (East) of the city police said the accident took place while she was returning home after a check-up at KMCH. Rajathi was accompanied by her relative Gokila and the latter’s two-year-old daughter Princy. 
 
 As the trio, along with two others, was crossing the road near the old main gate of the hospital, a speeding motorcycle hit Rajathi, Gokila and another pedestrian. Rajathi fell on road and succumbed to head injuries on the spot.
 
 S Pradeep, 20, of Gandhiji Road at Rathinapuri, who was riding the bike without wearing helmet, was thrown off the vehicle and sustained severe head injuries.
 
 The bike also hit Gokila and another pedestrian identified as Manikandan, who works in a fruit shop. Gokila lost hold of her daughter, who fell on the road and sustained severe head injuries. Gokila and Manikandan, meanwhile, suffered fractures on legs.
 
 All the injured were taken to KMCH, where the girl was put in the intensive care unit. Manikandan was later referred to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH).
 
 Pradeep, the police said, was a student of a private college in the city. The preliminary investigation revealed that he was involved in another accident on Kalapatti Road in October 2016. In that accident, pillion rider Nirmalkumar, a college student, had sustained severe head injuries.
 
 “The TIW police had then warned Pradeep’s father for allowing his son to ride a race bike. And he had promised not to give the bike to Pradeep. However, he allowed his son to ride the same bike again. Pradeep rode the motorcycle in a rash and negligent manner, causing the fatal accident,” said TIW (East) inspector V Vijayakumari.
 
 Following the accident, the city traffic police have decided to shift the bus stops on both sides of the Avinashi Road near the KMCH.
 
