NAGPUR: It is a paradox that points to   and  . The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s two lakes rejuvenation projects — Sonegaon and Pandhrabodi — have failed. Around 90% area of Sonegaon lake and 80% of Pandhrabodi lake has dried up even before summer is yet to set in, whereas the remaining lakes of the city that are yet to be taken up for rejuvenation still have sufficient water.

 The state government had approved a Rs3.33 crore rejuvenation project for Pandhrabodi lake under State Lakes Conservation Plan (SLCP) on January 2, 2013. The NMC has completed 95% works of the project and the remaining works are related to greenery development.
 
 However, at present, the lake has water in only around 20% of the area towards South-East side. The remaining area wears a parched look. Paradoxically, a well situated adjacent to the lake has a good amount of water.
 
 As per local residents, the current condition of the lake is similar to what it used to be in the past. “Most of the lake would dry up in April and by May, it would be completely parched,” said a resident.
 
 Lake activist Narayan Ahuja said NMC failed to identify sources of water and ensure proper desilting in Pandhrabodi lake like in Sonegaon lake. “NMC removed 2-4 feet silt in the lake in less than 50% catchment area,” he said. The lake’s actual catchment area is around 27.10 acre. NIT had approved Baji Prabhu layout on 13.25 acre land. Then NIT leased out 7.65 acres of the remaining 13.85 acres to Nagpur District Lawn Tennis Association for tennis court and a garden. “This reduced the lake size to 6.20 acres. Rejuvenation works should have been carried out in 13.85 acres but was done only in 6.20 acres. Therefore, existing water sources vanished and no efforts were taken to identifying new ones. Also, desilting was not deep enough,” he said.
 
 NMC in-charge for lakes and rivers Mohammed Israil said Pandhrabodi lake’s catchment area encroached so it very difficult to identify water sources. “We have constructed a sedimentation tank in the lake and connected it with storm water drain coming from LIT hillock. We will release water into the lake when it dries up completely,” he said.
 
 Sonegaon lake’s situation is even worse. It has water only in 10% of its area towards the South-East. This area was not a part of the rejuvenation project as it was dug deep during a trial taken around 16 years ago. This itself is evidence that desilting was not done up to satisfactory level.
 
 The NMC completed rejuvenation works in the lake three years ago with the help of Rs3.24 crore sanctioned by the government under SLCP.
 
 RTI activist and a resident of Sonegaon, TH Naidu, said the lake used to have water all year round in the past but it started to dry up since its major source of water — airport nullah — was encroached on around five years ago. “The lake used to dry up in May but it happened in April itself this year. I had lodged series of complaints with the NMC demanding inquiry into the rejuvenation works, but they were ignored. Proper inquiry should be done followed by more desilting to ensure proper rejuvenation of the lake,” he said, adding that even the then environment minister Sanjay Deotale during his visit to the lake accepted that rejuvenation work was not done properly, but nothing happened.
 
 Actually, water in the lake did not fill up to the brim during the last monsoon due to improper planning by NIT. TOI had highlighted in August last year that NIT started to replace pipeline from airport premises to the lake during monsoon due to which rain water did not come into the lake.
 
 At the same time, the remaining city lakes — Gorewada, Ambazari, Futala, Sakkardara, Naik, Baradari, Police Line Takli and Gandhisagar — are filled with water excluding Lendi Talav that is encroached to a great extent.
 
