CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) has issued notices to Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, deputy CM Sukhbir Badal and Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president Amrinder Singh Raja Warring for paid advertisements in the media. 

 Addressing a press conference, additional CEO C Sibin said the politicians identified for paid news will have to add it to their campaign expenditure. They can, however, go into appeal against the notice. 
 
 “The case of chief minister Badal and deputy CM Sukhbir Badal is under process, as the notice was issued on January 26. We have received 50 complaints, out of which 19 notices have been issued. Seven were found unpaid news and 24 complaints are under process. Notices will be issued after verifying these complaints,” he said.
 
 The   has served notices on 19 candidates, which also includes the names of Congress candidates Darshan Lal from Balachaur (in  ) and SAD candidate   from Joga constituently (in Moga). Darshan, Warring and Jagdeep are repeat offenders as they have five complaints each on paid news. 
 
 “As per the ECI guidelines there is no provision to disclose the name of the media house. The expense of paid news will be added to the expenditure of all 19 candidates. Paid news is an offence with two years of imprisonment, if ECI found them guilty, though these candidates can appeal before the ECI”, said Sibin.
 
 A total of 1,061 out of 1,145 candidates in fray have been on EC radar after complaints against them. The complaints include excess flow of cash, drugs and violation of code of conduct among others. Till date, the EC has recovered drugs including heroine, poppy husk, and opium worth Rs 12 crore, Rs 5.90 crore in cash, gold worth Rs 26 crore and liquor worth Rs 2.5 crore. The EC has recovered 95% weapons under arms and licence act provisions.
 
 Meanwhile, 31,460 electronic voter machines (EVMs) and 33 Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) machines will be installed at the district headquarters and key constituencies. 
 
 
