JAIPUR: Informing the House that   Congress government had witnessed more communal incidents during its regime compared to incumbent government, home minister   on Thursday claimed that in last three years, there has been a dip in communal tension cases in the state. 

 He was replying for demands for grant for the police, jail and   at the  . 
 
 "During Congress regime, 24 cases of communal incidents and 74 cases of communal tension were witnessed. On the other hand, in last three years, only eight communal incidents were witnessed in the state while merely 27 cases of communal tension were reported," he informed the House. 
 
 Kataria also said that no home minister can guarantee to curb crime. "I can't guarantee that no crime will take place. Even nobody can. But all what we can do is that we should make prompt arrests and ensure speedy prosecution and timely filling of charge-sheets. Criminals and mafias are fearless because somewhere they are sheltered and harboured," he said. 
 
 Expressing concern over rape of minor girls, he said, "It is indeed disturbing for us. No policemen can get into the mind of a criminal who is planning to rape and involve in such heinous crime and we can't deploy police everywhere but his arrest and prosecution can curb it." 
 
 Pointing towards the MLAs who brought many complains and accusations on the police department, he said, "Aarop Laganey waley bol to Aise Rahey hain Jaise sab Raja Harishchandra Hain (People who are levelling allegations as if they are King Harishchandra)." 
 
 Taking further dig on MLAs, he said, "If the police department is so corrupt than why I have got nearly 137 proposals for re-organization of police, opening of new police chowkis and other police offices. That means we all need police for our safety and security. Rather than just demoralizing us by various allegations on police some of you should had pat our back for curbing crime rate in the state in last 3 years." 
 
 He also requested that even MLAs should cooperate with the government in arresting and prosecuting the criminals rather than just saving them. 
 
 Kataria also admitted of lesser resources in police. "We have 27 policemen on every 100 sq metre while in India we have 54 on every 100 sq metre. 
 
 Expressing concern over increased accidents, Kataria informed, "Out of the total deaths 35 percent were witnessed on two-wheelers in which riders did not wear helmets. To make everyone wearing helmet police can only penalize and make aware of rules." 
 
