BENGALURU: Taking their political and religious agenda forward, Congress ministers representing the Lingayat community have launched the   (RBS), a new national organization to involve the youth in their campaign to seek separate religion status for the community. Mines and geology minister Vinay Kulkarni, one of the youngest members of chief minister Siddaramaiah's cabinet, will head the new outfit. In an interview with TOI, Kulkarni shared his vision and apprehensions in accomplishing the goal. Excerpts: 

 
 
 
 RBS was conceived with the pri mary idea of propagating the values of 12th century social reformer Basavanna and spread his ideology and philosophy across the country . The organization will function as a non-political entity involving youth, and work towards unifying the community to accomplish our larger goal of getting an independent religion tag. It will also hold various activities and programmes, including jayantis, to highlight how the Lingayat community is different from others.
 
 
 
 
 No. We have no intention of countering ABVM since the two organizations differ in their activities and goals. But we will stick to our demand that the ABVM should be renamed the Akhila Bharatiya Lingayat Mahasabha and accept Basavanna as the community guru.
 
 You have been president of the   unit. How do you plan to rope in youth?
 
 We plan to undertake a massive free membership drive, and hope to enrol at least 25lakh members in the next year or so.We will open the RBS headquarters in Bengaluru to hold meetings and give direction to our campaign. We are already scouting for space. Our offices will be spread across all districts, mainly at the   (non-Veerashaiva seminaries). We also plan to have offices in Dubai, the US and other countries. Members need not be Lingayats. Our only criteria is that the person should believe in Basavanna's philosophy .
 
 
 
 No way. It's unfortunate that everyone, including the media, is projecting Yeddyurappa as the guardian of Lingayats and has taken the community people on `contract'.
 
 Yeddyurappa has chosen to contest from North Karnataka not to counter our movement or for the Lingayat cause, but because he is feeling insecure contesting from Shikaripura. There is lot of awareness in the community and I am sure they will give him a fitting reply at the next hustings.
 
 
 
 The much-delayed and highly-debated anti-superstition bill mooted by the government will be tabled in the next legislature session. The Karnataka Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifices and other Inhuman Evil and   Bill, was cleared by the scrutiny panel headed by law minister T B Jayachandra on Monday. Briefing reporters, he said the bill will be placed before the cabinet for discussion and then tabled in the legislature.
 
 Sources in the law department said the bill clearly defines “superstition“ and “belief“ and includes astrology. Jayachandra refused to comment on the allegation that the provisions of the bill were watered down following pressure from vested interests. He said the bill is based on the Maharashtra model and it has incorporated suggestions made by 150 seers, including the pontiff of Nidumamidi Mutt, and has been vetted by former Supreme Court judge Justice  .
 
 
 
 
 The special legislature session to be held on October 6 and 7 to mark 75 years of Vidhana Soudha has been deferred because of non-availability of President Ram Nath Kovind.
 
