JAIPUR: An earth mover used for transportation of a pregnant woman in completely cut-off areas of Pali district due to floods. It was a challenging situation for health authorities when they found that their ambulance could not reach to the house of the pregnant woman in Peepla village. After being rescued, woman gave birth to a baby boy in Pali’s government hospital. 

 Presence of mind of people and efforts of health department officials saved life of the 22-year-old pregnant woman who needed immediate treatment. 
 
 Ambulance failed to move on the road connecting two areas separated by a Machri river in Bali block. There was a risk of ambulance of being washed away by continuously swelling river. There is a Sehwadi dam in the nearby area which increased worries of the Peepla villagers as it is now overflowing. Excess water of the dam is going into the river which has inundated the road connecting Peepla with outer world. 
 
 People started gathering at both sides of the river to help the woman. There was a patch of one kilometre of road which was covered through   machine to rescue the pregnant woman of Peepla village. “I received a call from the villagers. I rushed to the spot and took positioning at one side of the Machri river. We have no other option left as ambulance could not reach the area. It is not a overbridge which is connection two sides over the river but it is just a elevated road. The water of upto 4 to 6 feet was flowing on it, so it was difficult for any vehicle to move on it,” Sehwadi sarpanch Mohan 
 
 Since, a lot of work under   is regularly done with the help of JCB machines, the villagers and health authorities roped in the JCB machine for rescue of the two pregnant women. “In Peepla and Koilvav villages in Bali block of Pali district, pregnant women required immediate treatment. We came to know about it. We tried to send ambulances but as the roads were broken and also   water has completely cut off the area, it was difficult to provide them ambulance service immediately,” Dr Surendra Singh Shekhawat, chief medical health officer, Pali said. 
 
 Dr Shekhawat said that they roped in JCB machines in both the areas to rescue the two women. The JCB machines can move in difficult areas too.
 
 For the past three-four days, several parts of Pali districts have been inundated by flood water, which has demolished roads causing problems for smooth transportation of ambulances. 
 
 In Jalore, Sirohi and Pali, there are a lot of areas, which are completely cut off and they require rescue work. The health authorities are now using their mobile teams to provide health facilities in the areas, which are complete disconnected with the other areas.
 
