KOLKATA: The morning after the suicide at Belur station by   and his wife  , relatives and neighbours related their deaths to two more suicides in the family. In 2015, Biswajit’s sister-in-law Arati and niece Mouli had hanged themselves. Four deaths in one family in just one-and-a-half years have yet again raised the question on whether those from families with a history of suicides are prone to self-destruction.

 Incidentally, doctors have found evidences where suicides run in the family. Dr Gautam Saha, the honorary general secretary of the  , has come across a patient who had come to seek help after six members in the family had committed suicide. “If there is a suicide in a family, genetically there is a chance of the next generation also attempting it,” Saha said. In the Sheoraphuli family, Arati and Mouli’s suicides could be a case of genetic loading. Unfortunately, very few are even aware that suicidality clusters in families, to some extent, may be genetically transmitted. No one in the Saha family ever consulted a psychiatrist after Mouli’s suicide.
 
 Two years back, a girl had approached Dr Jairanjan Ram after her sister had committed suicide. “Somehow, we prevented her from trying to hang herself. Shock therapy is a good treatment but doctors are not willing to practice that because of issues raised by activists. We were trying to find where to take her to give shock therapy. But before we could do that, she drowned herself,” Ram said. Another sister, who now lives in Dubai, is still under Ram’s treatment. 
 
 The continuous quarrels in the Sheoraphuli family over extra-marital affairs had created an environment that could have led to depression. Even Biswajit and Sushama Saha’s 13-year-old son Subham said, “For the last four days, it became difficult for me to live with my parents. They would engage in fierce quarrels, often hurling household articles at each other. I took shelter with my uncle and aunt.”
 
 But no one thought their quarrels could trigger double suicides. “Tired of their quarrels, I had moved to my elder son’s house. But I never anticipated they would end their lives,” said Biswajit’s mother Bedana Devi. 
 
 
