THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister   on Tuesday said that no one can escape the clutches of law using their wealth or influence. Clarifying that there wouldn't be any move from the government to arraign innocent people as accused in any case, Vijayan said the government viewed atrocities against women in a very serious manner.

 He told reporters here that the probe into the case was still progressing and more people would be arrested if found guilty. On his earlier statement about the absence of a conspiracy in the case, Vijayan said he hadn't said there wasn't any conspiracy. “The priority was to arrest the culprit,“ he said.
 
 In a Facebook post, Vijayan said the LDF government was committed to implement justice without fear or favour. “The police action is based on evidence and facts. Our aim is to break the police free of all negative influences and make it a strong force,“ he said.
 
 For mer CM V S Achuthanandan demanded a probe into the financial dealings in the Malayalam film industry . “There should be a probe into the mafia-style functioning of film personalities. Also, the alleged involvement of drug mafia in film needs to be probed,“ he said in a statement here.
 
 Opposition leader   said there was nothing for the government to be proud of. “Actors and people's representatives Mukesh, Innocent and Ganesh Kumar cannot es cape the responsibil ity in connection with the case and they have lost the right to continue as people's representa tives,“ he told report ers in Kannur.
 
 MLA P T Thomas, who was the first to alert police about the case, demanded the resignation of Innocent, Ganesh and Mukesh from their elected positions. Thomas told reporters at Kanhangad that though he was present at the `golden' moment in connection with the case, the police have not taken his statement so far.
 
 CPI state secretary   demanded to dissolve AMMA as soon as possible. “Dileep's arrest has proved that any accused can be brought before the law, if the inquiry is being conducted in the right manner. AMMA and Fefka are against the film industry ,“ he said.
 
