PUNE: All Zoroastrian and Mughal Irani families in the city signed into Navroz (new year) on Monday with prayers and day-long feast with kith and kin.

 Navroz heralds the new season for the community at the exact moment of the spring equinox — when the sun passes through the equator resulting in the equally spanning day and night.
 
 The community ushered in their new year around 3.50pm on Monday, with their ceremonial haft-seen — a tabletop arrangement that comprises seven items.
 
 At Irani households, including that of Kashmira Irani’s, the table was set with Sabzeh (wheat, barley or lentil sprouts symbolising rebirth),   (a sweet, creamy wheat germ pudding that stands for affluence), Seeb (succulent apples representing beauty and health), Senjed (sweet, dried sea buckthorn fruits indicating love), Seer (garlic for good health), Sumac (a Persian spice symbolic of light), and Serkeh (vinegar for age and patience).
 
 Another addition that was made to the table was a goldfish in a bowl, which stands for joy and free movement. Rosewater is sprinkled on each member who later smile into a mirror and pray for a happy year ahead.
 
 Preparations for the day begin much in advance with Khouneh Tekouni, an activity of thorough cleaning of the house.
 
 Kashmira’s day began with a prayer performed by a priest to ward off the evil. “I served him falooda (sweet) and then started the feast, which included fish biryani. The traditional dish of mora dal chawal with Kolmi no Pattia (a rich prawn preparation) is cooked in most homes on this day. We invite friends and family to join the festivities. The scale of celebrations may have toned down a bit over the years, but continue to be as traditional and enjoyable as before,” she said.
 
 The idea is to keep festivities as authentic as possible, explained  , a Camp resident. “Most of us try to perform rituals as done in Iran. Adorning new clothes, people visit a fire temple in the morning. The table is readied almost an hour before the celebrations begin. Every year, I and my brother make it a point to visit my parents’ house in Kondhwa,” he said.
 
 The celebration of Navroz is as old as the Zoroastrian culture, said S M M Irani. “It’s a day for families to bond, eat and pray for peace and prosperity around the world,” he said.
 
 Navroz is a combination of two Persian words. No, which means ‘new’ and rouz, which means ‘day’.
 
 According to the Gregorian calendar, Navroz falls in the month of March. Observed on the day of the vernal equinox (day and night are of approximately equal duration all over the planet), it has been celebrated for over 3,000 years in Western Asia, Central Asia, the Caucasus, the   and the Balkans.
 
 It usually occurs on March 21 or the previous or following day (depending on the region).
 
 In Pune, the community members usually attend their prayer sessions at Sir JJ Agiary in Camp to welcome the new year hoping for harmony and good health.
 
