Cleared/Anil (447)

 Coimbatore: The People’s Welfare Front (PWF) will file a writ petition before Madras High Court against Chennai city police commissioner George and a few other police officials who instigated and unleashed violence on jallikattu protesters in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai, said the president of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK),  , here on Saturday.
 
 Addressing reporters here, he said the students’ protest was peaceful for six days and it turned violent on the seventh day after the state government instructed police to remove them from protest venues across Tamil Nadu by any means.
 
 The students, the VCK leader said, sought just two hours to disperse from Marina beach, but the police resorted to lathi-charge and lobbed tear gas bombs to forcefully evict them. Many protesters were injured in the police atrocities.
 
 They also foisted fake cases against the protesters in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai, he alleged and demanded the police to withdraw fake cases registered against innocent students.
 
 “We condemn the state government and the police for their involvement in the violence. A detailed inquiry should be done in this regard. We want the government to form an inquiry commission led by a sitting judge of Madras High Court,” Thirumavalavan said.
 
 He said his party leaders had visited a few spots in Chennai, where the police lathi-charged and lobbed tear gas bombs at protesters and met the people injured in the violence. The police, he said, had targeted fishermen and dalit people for providing waters and foods to the protesters.
 
 “The police set ablaze a fish market, an autorickshaw and a few motorcycles. They also damaged many motorcycles and it’s a sure indication that the violence was planned,” the VCK president said.
 
 Pointing out that many organisations had participated in the protest demanding permanent law for jallikattu, he lambasted the state government for terming them anti-social elements and anti-national elements. “We condemn the state government for calling the protesters anti-social and anti-national elements,” Thirumavalavan added.
 
 “We conducted field inspections and received petitions from the public. We will approach Chennai city police commissioner and will hand over the petitions to him to take stringent action against the police officials involved in the violence. If he fails to take action, we will file a writ petition before the Madras High Court against many police officials, including Chennai city police commissioner, soon,” the VCK leader said.
 
 The VCK would stage a state-wide protest to condemn atrocities against dalit minor girls on February 2. A16-year-old girl from Ariyalur was raped and murdered, while a 14-year-old girl was raped by a five member gang at Cuddalore. “Our party will hold protest across the state, demanding stern action against the guilty,” Thirumavalavan said.
 
 
