CHENNAI: It was the   of 2009 that saw the sudden rise of  . Som, then, 23, beat   and Ivo Karlovic in back-to-back rounds and went on to play the final, where he lost to  .

 It marked the beginning of a journey that got over here on New Year's Day as Somdev pulled the shutter down on his playing career. He hadn't played for a while and when the former India No. 1 took over the mentoring duties of Prajnesh Gunneswaran, one could see the end was near. "Starting 2017 on a new note, retiring from pro tennis. Thanks to everyone for the love and support over the years. #newyearnewbeginnings", Somdev tweeted on Sunday morning to make things official.
 
 Somdev was with Prajnesh on Sunday at the SDAT Nungambakkam centre, where his ward lost in the final round of the qualifiers. "It's not a sudden decision, this was well thought out," Somdev told TOI.
 
 Later he told PTI that the passion to play was dying down and that's why he decided to call it quits. "I last played a match in Indian Wells in March (2015) and after that I had a chat with my people. I pretty much decided at that time that it was time to stop. I have read people saying I was injury plagued but it was not about that. I wanted to play for right reasons. Playing for me was always super fun and passion, that was dying or slowing down," Somdev said.
 
 The gutsy back-court slugger added that he decided to stop when he understood that it would be difficult for him to get back into top-100. "The enjoyment in training, travelling were not the same. I was not tired I have done it for so long. It was not fresh. Playing and going for tournaments in Asia was not exciting for me," Somdev, who touched a career-high of 62 in 2011, said.
 
 Som also took a dig at AITA about the way they are running the sport in the country. "Professional sport is not a joke...I have not come from Indian system but from college system in US. I don't see what AITA has done to churn out players. We don't have training centres and don't have expertise," he said.
 
 There was a players revolt led by Somdev in 2013 when AITA was forced to bring in a few changes about how Davis Cup team was run. Changes were also made in support staff and players' share in Davis Cup prize money was increased.
 
 
 
 
 Somdev's Davis Cup teammate and friend Saketh Myneni praised the player's work ethic saying that he is a great example for youngsters. "I have known Som since our college days and so I have been there for the entire cycle of his career. His work ethic is something that I have tried to imbibe. I have seen people work on the court but Som has given as much effort off it too. He is a perfect example for youngsters and he has shown us how to win. Most of us don't remember seeing Leander when he played singles, but we saw Som and he showed us that we could flourish in singles too," the current India No 1 told TOI.
 
  also lauded Somdev's achievements saying that there is a lot he will be remembered for. "Somdev's fitness has always been good. He won the Commonwealth Games gold and became the first and only Indian to reach the final of the Chennai Open singles. These are the things Somdev will be remembered for."
 
