NEW DELHI: India is set to revamp its manufacturing framework to reboot the sector with an eye on job creation and technology upgradation, commerce and industry minister   told ET in an interview. She has ordered a comprehensive review of the six-year-old National Manufacturing Policy launched by the previous government as it’s no longer relevant given the reforms implemented by the   administration.
 
  Also on the agenda is a study of the readiness of Indian companies for the socalled Fourth Industrial Revolution.
  
  The government plans to scrap the multiple clearances needed by overseas investors in sectors that are on the approval route with the disbanding of Foreign Investment Promotion Board. She said the cabinet could take up the proposal soon. “The policy is 2011 vintage and if that is what will guide us after we have launched ‘Make in India’, FDI and ease of doing business reforms, we would not be able to achieve targets,” she said.
  
  The National Manufacturing Policy, launched with much fanfare, sought to raise the share of manufacturing in   to 25% by 2025. It was announced after manufacturing growth had plunged to less than 1%.
  
  The government is betting big on manufacturing through ‘Make in India’ to create millions of jobs that the country needs as it looks to speed up growth, raise incomes and lift people out of poverty.
  
  The Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) will review the policy to ensure the revised manufacturing policy takes into account the changing economic scenario in the country and overseas, with rapid technological changes and digitisation in the backdrop of domestic initiatives such as Digital India and Skill India. A big focus of the recast will be small and medium enterprises, which are seen as major employment generators and badly need tech upgradation.
  
  “Policy has to be drafted in a way that it is adaptable for all this. This has to be shaken up,” Sitharaman said.
  
  
 
  Sitharaman has also asked DIPP to hold consultations and a day-long workshop with the top 150 industries of the country with sectoral representation to assess preparedness for the next phase.
  
  “We want them to tell us what are they planning for the Industrial Revolution 4.0 to bring a sync between skilling, manpower, demographic dividend on one hand and digitisation, automation, 4.0 on the other,” she said.
  
  The Fourth Industrial Revolution refers to the confluence of new technologies in having an impact across businesses and economy.
  
  The government will take stock of the readiness of private sector for the challenges posed by digitisation, automation and the impact it will have on manpower.
  
  “On the one hand we are doing so much of skilling there is an industrial revolution taking place and we want to know if we will be able to get the returns on our demographic dividend and if the industries will be able to absorb the new trained manpower,” Sitharaman added.
  
  The government is also likely to revisit the National Investment and Manufacturing Zones to assess their viability. Zones created without adequate trunk infrastructure such as roads, electricity and water connections would no longer be the focus of the manufacturing policy. Many of these centres are located far from ports and other modes of transport, driving up the cost of exports relative to neighbouring countries. For instance, India’s cost to export, according to a World Bank Report, is around $1,332 per container, compared with $572 in Indonesia and $525 in Malaysia.
