NAGPUR: Congress vice-president   has expressed concern over alienation of the Other   (OBCs) with the Congress party. In a serious effort to win back their support, he specially summoned 165   leaders from across the country and had nearly three-hour discussion with them in New Delhi last Saturday.

 Besides those from the party, people representing the community on social forums were also present. City’s Babanrao Taywade, president of Rashtriya OBC Mahasangh, an all-party conglomeration, who was at the meeting said, “Rahulji was well-informed about the problems faced by the OBCs and expressed full support for the community. He said there was need to take up the matter effectively and more aggressively.”
 
 The 33-member team from Maharashtra was led by deputy-chairman of state legislative council Manikrao Thakre. Deputy leader of Congress in State Assembly Vijay Wadettiwar, Hingoli MP Rajiv Satav, Congress youth leader Nitin Kumbhalkar and Ravindra Darekar were also present.
 
 “It was an open discussion and Rahul was candid to admit that till 1990 (during   days), the OBC was firmly with the Congress but in later years they parted ways,” said Taywade speaking to ToI about the meeting. 
 
 “Rahulji did not allow any lecturing by leaders. So, from the 165 OBC leaders speakers were chosen by draw of lots and each was given four minutes to speak. He made it clear that he wanted to hear their views. This informal style livened up the proceedings,” said Taywade.
 
 He also presented a memorandum and informed Rahul that the OBC Mahasangh was holding a national conference in New Delhi on August 7 and which was drawing good response from the community leaders across party lines.
 
 With the government not declaring the exact OBC population as per 2011 census, the leaders claim OBCs comprise 65% of population of the country. “Revealing the census figure, creating separate ministry, establishing exclusive hostels for OBC students in cities, removal of ‘un-constitutional’ creamy layer criteria for eligibility of quota, special drives to fill up of remaining 15% of OBC quota in jobs are some of the demands of the community for which they are agitating for last few years.
 
