MUMBAI: In a significant order bringing to book an errant   firm for arbitrarily increasing interest rates on a home loan availed by a couple based in Andheri, the   consumer commission has ordered it to refund the excess interest to the tune of Rs 1.21 lakh.

 “In our view, in the absence of a valid loan agreement as to payment of increased rate of interest between the parties the increase in the rate of interest could not have been demanded or claimed,“ the Maharashtra State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission said. Stating that the complainant in the ex-parte proceedings is entitled to just and reasonable amounts as damages and compensation, the commission said, “As a consumer availing loan as agreed, he was victim of exploitation by the service provider, financial institution, which was blameworthy for unfair trade practice and deficiency in service in dealings with the borrower.“ Additionally , the commission also directed GE Money   to pay a compensation of Rs 50,000 to the complainants as damages for naming them as defaulters in a database without any valid and legal basis or ground. The commission also ordered that the complainants be paid Rs one lakh as litigation costs.
 
 The complainants told the commission that they had taken a total loan of around Rs 32 lakh in 2006. They said that the loan amounts were repayable at the interest rate of 9.86% per annum to the housing finance com pany . They also submitted that the equated monthly installment (EMI) amount was changeable subject to the change in the rate of interest, but not the period. It was also agreed that the tenure was not to be increased. They further alleged that company started changing the rate of interest not as per the guidelines of the   but on their own whims exceeding the benchmark set. Further they claimed that they never agreed to the increase in the rate of interest or arbitration at Delhi, but the company had in order to harass them appointed the arbitrator unilaterally .
 
 The complainants said that the Delhi high   had set aside the award passed by the arbitrator by its order dated December 19, 2012. They claimed that the company had deliberately not attended the complaint pending before the state commission.
 
 In the absence of the company's submissions, the commission said that the pleadings made by the complainants remained uncontroverted as it was not known as to what step was taken by them after the arbitration award was invalidated by the HC.
 
