KOLKATA: Two young men were killed in two separate accidents on VIP Road in the early hours of Sunday. This is the third accidental death on VIP Road in less than twenty four hours.
 
 On Sunday officers on police patrol first spotted Sheikh Salman, 28, a resident of Kaikhali, sitting on the road middle of the road with his back resting against the median divider. He was immediately taken to a local hospital where he was declared dead by an attending doctor.
  
 Police said he had injuries on the back of his head, spine and was bleeding from his neck and the back of his ears. “We at first thought a drunk man was sitting on the road. As we pushed him, he fell down and we realized he may have been dead. It looks like some speeding vehicle may have hit him. Then someone may have made him sit on the median divider in that posture or the man may also have dragged himself towards the divider after being hit. We are checking the CCTV footage in the area for a clear idea about the incident,” said an officer of   adding that the body has been sent for post mortem.
  
 Salman’s family however cried foul. “The position in which his body was found, we feel he was murdered. Recently he had a fight with a colleague at work. Police should probe into the case,” said Sheikh Amir, Salman’s brother.
  
 Amir said Salman used to work as a driver at the cargo department of  . He was survived by a wife and a four-month-old daughter. “He had left home around 10pm for work. We received a call from the police informing his death around 4.30am,” said Amir.
  
 Earlier in the night, a 24-year-old youth, Ankit Chowdhury was killed when he was hit by another vehicle while riding his bike around 1.30am. Chowdhury, a resident of Howrah was allegedly travelling back home riding a cousin’s Royal Enfield Bullet when the accident took place. He was found in a pool of blood by a team of policemen on night patrol and on being taken to a private hospital, he was declared dead.
  
 Police have started separate cases of death due to negligence in both the cases but were unable to seize the vehicle or arrest the drivers.
  
 “We are checking the CCTV footages in both the cases to find out the vehicles that may have hit the two youths,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate.
  
 On saturday morning, a 32-year-old man, Samir Saha was killed when the Mahindra Xylo he was driving, crashed into a divider at the point where VIP Road goes straight towards Ultadanga and a flyover leading to the EM Bypass rises from the left. Police suspect a last minute realisation that he had taken the wrong lane and the subsequent attempt to swerve to the correct one resulted in the accident.
 
