PUNE: The   on Thursday admitted   (HRS) chief Dhananjay Jairam Desai’s criminal revision plea against the trial court’s order rejecting his application for discharge from the   murder case. 

 The court, however, did not grant a stay on the trial against Desai as his application did not include a prayer for such a relief.
 
 Desai and 20 others are facing trial for criminal conspiracy and murder of techie Mohsin Shaikh during the violence in Hadapsar. The violence was triggered by an objectionable post on the social media on June 2, 2014. Desai is accused of instigating violence through a couple of public speeches on January 19, 2014 at Manjari and on March 17 at Loni Kalbhor, both near Hadapsar, on the eastern outskirts of Pune.
 
 The ongoing trial before additional sessions judge J T Utpat here is at the stage of framing of charges against the 21 accused. At least 15 of them are now out on bail. Desai remains lodged in the Yerawada jail since his arrest on June 10, 2014.
 
 On June 14, 2016, the trial court had rejected Desai’s application for discharge from the case, observing that there was prima facie evidence against him and he was not entitled to be discharged. The HRS chief moved the high court against this order on June 30, 2016. The same was heard by the bench of Justice A M Badar on Thursday. 
 
 Desai’s lawyer   told TOI, “The bench has observed that issues as to whether a public speech can be treated as a conspiracy and if the hearsay evidence recorded by two witnesses against the applicant (Desai) holds good. The bench has allowed us to amend our plea by adding the prayer for grant of a stay on the trial against Desai. We will mention the matter for a hearing on the stay early next week.” 
 
 He said, “The crux of our argument before the bench is based on the fact that there is no direct or indirect evidence nor even any circumstantial evidence against Desai. He was not even present at the site where the victim was murdered. Also, public speeches delivered a few months before the incident cannot be treated as a conspiracy. The police case is also based on the statements recorded by two witnesses, who claimed that they heard two of the co-accused saying that Desai had asked them to commit the violence. Such hearsay evidence cannot be held against the applicant.”
 
 Desai’s second bail application in the high court is also listed for hearing on April 28 before Justice  . So far, the court in Pune has twice rejected his bail pleas.
 
