BERHAMPUR: The authorities of the   (ACSIL) in Ganjam district have increased the   by Rs 20 per tonne this year and fixed the rate at Rs 2,500. 

 The sugarcane growers in the district were demanding a price of Rs 3,000 per tonne. The ACSIL is the oldest sugar industry in cooperative sector in the state. 
 
 Considering all aspects, including the financial condition of the factory and the cost factor in sugar cane cultivation, the authorities decided to increase the sugar cane price, said Saroj Mishra, ADM-cum-managing director of the ACSIL. 
 
 Mishra said the sugar factory is providing a rate more than the   (MSP) of the sugar cane fixed by the government. The government has fixed the MSP of the sugar cane at Rs 2,300 per tonne. The price of the sugar cane was decided in the board meeting of the factory, said Mishra.
 
 "Due to the increase in input costs, we demanded procurement price of Rs 3,000," said general secretary of Ganjam district sugarcane growers association Samira Pradhan. 
 
 Sugar cane growers staged dharna in front of the factory on Saturday demanding increase in the procurement price. They lifted the dharna after president of the factory   convinced them that the factory is not in a position to increase the price.
 
 The area under sugar cane cultivation in the district has reduced drastically in last few years as the farmers have switched over to other crops. They realized that the sugar cane was no more a profit-making crop, said Narayan Jena, vice-president of the association. Around a decade ago, sugar cane used to be grown on 12,000-acres. It has reduced to 6,000 acres, he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, processing of sugar cane is scheduled to start this week. The factory authorities have targeted to crush around 90,000 tonnes of sugar cane this year against the last year's achievement of 1.09 lakh tonnes, said cane manager of the factory Bhagaban Panda. "We reduced the target this time because of the area under cultivation has come down," he said.
 
