PATNA: Governor   on Thursday said the state government would make clean water and other basic facilities available in villages under its ‘Saat Nishchay’ programme, apart from strengthening the infrastructure network in the state to promote business activities and boost state’s coffers.

 Addressing the joint sitting of both Houses of Bihar legislature to mark the start of the   session on Thursday, the governor said maintenance of law and order and zero tolerance towards cases of corruption continued to be the utmost priorities of the government. 
 
 “For the first time in the country, an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system had been introduced at Beur Central Jail, Patna, linking 55 other jails in the state with it. The system would automate back office functions related to human resources,” he added.
 
 The governor said in the last 10 years, the government has done renovation of 2,232km of national highways, 4,021km of state highways, 13,600km of major district roads besides constructing 6,700 major bridges. Further, five other major bridges in various parts of the state, along with the ambitious Ganga Path (at Patna) and also Patna to Digha elevated corridor are under construction, he said.
 
 Referring to village connectivity programme, the governor said villages and tolas with population of 250 would be linked with 31,183km of roads to be constructed over the next four years, while 4,643 other habitations, each having 100-249 population, would be linked with 3,977km of all-weather roads under Gramin Tola Sampark Programme. Kovind said headways had been made in generation, supply and transmission of power in the state.
 
 The governor said in a bid to promote entrepreneurship among the youths of the state, the Bihar start-up policy was framed last year with the provision for venture capital of Rs 500 crore. As many as 63 applications had been shortlisted from among 555 applications received, while Rs 50 crore had been sanctioned for the current fiscal.
 
 The governor also lauded the successful organisation of human chain in the state in support of total prohibition. “The government also successfully organised   to mark the 350th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh,” Kovind added.
 
