INDORE: The much-waited IT multinational   is all set to start its operations in the city on   at the end of the month. Officials of the IT major had visited the site recently and intimated   ( ) of their plans.

 “The representatives of Infosys informed us that they would start operations in the city before March end,” IDA chairperson Shankar Lalwani told TOI.
 
 The city unit of the multinational is coming up under the   (SEZ) at Super Corridor. With SEZ, the company is given special concessions and facilities. In order to continue with the amenities provided, the company was expected to start its operations this month.
 
 However, the setup is not yet ready to be completely operational and the company is reportedly planning to start its operations from a small unit. Official announcement of the same are yet to be made by the company.
 
 Infosys was allotted over 130 acres of land at Super Corridor. In the first phase of construction, the company reportedly made an investment of Rs 335 crore to create a built-up area of 7 lakh sq ft to seat 5,000 software professionals.
 
 With this, Indore Development Authority also came up with a temporary solution to provide electricity and other facilities via usual underground systems.
 
 “The temporary system is being built in such a way that we would not require any major digging on roads or other structures for transferring wires and cables,” Lalwani added.
 
  may also start its operation in the month of March. At present, the company’s BPO may come up at the location and following this, other developments would continue. Higher ups of the company may come down to inspect the campus soon.
 
 Indore: Much waited IT multinational Infosys is all set to start its operations in the city on Super Corridor from this month end. Officials of the IT major had visited the site recently intimated the Indore Development Authority (IDA) of their plans.
 
 “The representatives of Infosys informed us that they would start operations in the city before March end,” IDA chairperson Shankar Lalwani told TOI.
 
 The city unit of the multinational is coming up under the Special Economic Zone (SEZ) at the super corridor. With SEZ, the company is given special concessions and facilities. In order to continue with the amenities provided, the company was expected to start its operations this month.
 
 However, the setup is not yet ready to be completely operational but the company is reportedly planning to start its operations from a small unit. Official announcement of the same are yet to be made by the company. The higher officials have inspected the site recently.
 
 Infosys was allotted over 130 acres of land at the Super Corridor. In the first phase of construction, the company reportedly made an investment of Rs. 335 crore to create a built-up area of 7 lakh sq. ft. to seat 5,000 software professionals.
 
 With this, the Indore Development Authority also came up with a temporary solution to provide electricity and other facilities via usual underground systems.
 
 “The temporary system is being built in such a way that we would not require any major digging activities on roads or other structures for transferring the wires and cables,” Lalwani added.
 
 TCS may also start its operation in the month of March. Presently, the company’s BPO may come up at the location and following this, other developments would continue. Higher ups of the company may come down to inspect the campus soon.
 
 
 
 
 MoU was signed during the 2012 investor’s summit with assurance of starting work by 2016
 
 Notification of the allotted land was done in the year 2013
 
 Developmental works initiated at the site in the year 2014
 
 With an investment of Rs800 crore, Infosys would generate 13 employment opportunities.
 
