NAGPUR: Children should take a vow to serve the country as it would give them enormous satisfaction which they cannot get while working for a private company paying them fat salaries once they complete education, said Amit Majumdar, former regional director of Atomic Minerals Directorate for Exploration and Research (central region), on Thursday. 

 Speaking during the National Technology Day celebrations at   and Planetarium, Majumdar enlightened the kids about India’s nuclear capabilities and urged them to work for the nation. He exhorted students to visit other countries, learn something new there, and bring that knowledge back and put it to use for betterment. This will be a great service to the nation. 
 
 Majumdar said, “Former President of India APJ   had told me specifically to try and put the right thoughts in the minds of children studying in schools and colleges because when they grow up their perceptions should be very clear.” He also told children that India has very stringent safety norms governing nuclear energy and reactors have a four-stage system to avoid disasters. He said, “This is the highest safety standard in the world.” Nuclear disasters in Chernobyl in the erstwhile Soviet  , which is now part of Ukraine, and Fukushima, Japan, were caused due to human error. 
 
 “We must be proud to be Indians because we have researched and developed our own nuclear technology in the last 63 years,” said Majumdar. “People have a negative perception about nuclear energy and think reactors will explode like bombs. But this is not true.” Explaining the benefits of nuclear energy, he said that 30,000 tonnes of coal produce the same amount of heat as one kilogram of uranium.
 
 Raman Science Centre’s education officer Abhimanyu Bhelave said, the Pokhran-II thermonuclear tests conducted on May 11, 1998, is the main reason for celebrations, besides development of surface-to-air missile Trishul and indigenous light aircraft NAL Hansa during that period. 
 
 In his lecture on ‘Additive manufacturing’, centre’s curator   said that it is a process where an object is produced layer by layer, using either metal or plastics, based on a digital model created in a computer. It is, in essence, three dimensional (3D) printing and it has applications in aerospace as well as medical science, he added.
 
 “Components like fuel nozzles used in turbine jet engines are made using 3D printers. Similarly, parts of the human skull made with this technology can be implanted in a person in case of severe head injuries. In the future, fully functioning vital organs like heart and liver will be produced using human tissues,” Panda said. 
 
 A ‘Sit and draw’ competition was held in which schoolchildren were asked to paint their perception of technology in India. 
 
