BENGALURU: Although it’s just the end of March, parts of Karnataka are already on the boil – many districts recording temperatures above 40 degree Celsius (°C). Many parts of North Karnataka are, in fact, experiencing heat wave-like conditions.

 The scorching heat, coupled with the scanty rainfall that the state has received in March, has triggered fears of a prolonged spell of acute water scarcity. Although the Karnataka government has undertaken a slew of drought-relief measures, they have proven to be insufficient given the scale of the calamity.
 
 The people of the state were banking on excess rainfall this monsoon season to provide respite from the prolonged  . However, the forecast of a below-normal monsoon for 2017 by Skymet, a private weather company, is only likely to heighten fears and anxieties among the people.
 
 However, meteorology expert Puttanna pointed out that it was too early to predict the monsoon. “Monsoons are notoriously hard to predict. We are all waiting for the forecast by the Indian Meteorological Department ( ), which has the largest and best network in the country,” he said, referring to the IMD”s prediction expected on April 16.
 
 Puttanna added that   effect – unusual warming of the surface of the Pacific Ocean – would play a crucial role again. “There are predictions of El Nino in the second half of the monsoon season, and this will hold the key. The IMD is expected to shed light on this,” he added.
 
 In the arid Hyderabad-Karnataka region, the temperature is above normal in most districts. Officials in the revenue department said that , on Thursday, Kalaburagi was sizzling at 40.5°C – 1.5 degrees above normal. The temperature in Vijayapura was 40.2, an alarming 2.2°C above normal. While the mercury level touched 40 in Ballari too, it was 39°C in Raichur.
 
 If the prevalent conditions extend for another fortnight, temperatures in the Hyderabad-Karnataka region are likely to touch 45°C in April.
 
 ‘Another drought would be disastrous for state’
 
 Successive droughts and an unusually warm summer have already taken a toll on the livelihood of the farming community, pushing many of them to suicides. “Another drought could spell doom for the state,” said revenue department officials, in charge of overseeing relief works.
 
 With the Malnad region, where the catchment areas of most rivers lie, faced with the problem of a rainfall deficit of 35%, another drought could see the water level in the reservoirs plummet further. “The growth rate in the agricultural sector has been really low. A fourth straight drought year would be too much to bear,” said a senior revenue department official.
 
