AHMEDABAD: Parents who have been struggling with self-financed schools over unregulated fees should read the fine print of the The Gujarat Self-Financed Schools (Regulation of Fees), 2017, Bill in order to claim refund of excess fees. More than 12,000 private self-financed schools have been brought under the ambit of the new law.

  Parents who have already paid hefty sums this year can claim refunds of excess fees when the newly appointed zonal-level fee regulatory committee, vested with the powers of a civil court, decides fee caps for schools — pre-primary, primary, secondary and higher secondary sections. The law states that refunds have to be given within 15 days of the committee’s decision. Any delay will invite a 1% interest every day over the difference that has to be paid back to parents, for a period of three months. Delay stretching beyond three months will invite Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh fine. Schools caught charging more fees than stipulated by the fee regulatory committee will have to refund parents twice the amount of the fee.
 
 Strangely, schools that run only nursery sections and playgroups are exempted from the new fee-regulation norms. “There are a number of playgroups that charge hefty fees — in fact, more than what private schools charge,” said a senior education department official. “They have been excluded because there are no laws to govern them; nor is there any data about them with the state government.” The official said that many private schools do not have qualified teachers to demand fee hikes. 
 
 Bharat Chaudhary, parents’ representative in the GSHSEB, said, “The new committee should have a representative from the parents’ association.” He said parents had struggled against unregulated fees for over a decade, which made the government bring this law. “There is a chartered accountant and a school association representative in the committee, so why can’t there be a parents’ association member?” he said. 
 
 “Schools will be told to charge just one fee, which covers all aspects,” said principal secretary, education,  . “Any deviation or illicit means of fee collection will invite heavy penalties.”  , trustee of  , said: “The government’s decision to enact this law is welcome. The government can extend the scope of the committee to oversee the quality of education in schools.”
 
