CHENNAI: The Australian teams that toured India in the first decade of the 2000s used to have one underrated pacer who troubled Sachin Tendulkar & Co quite a bit.  , a former assistant coach of the Australian side, believes that the current lot that is touring India also has the capability of halting  's boys' dream run in ODIs.

 In an exclusive interview to TOI, the 42-year-old, who is now the coach of Papua New Guinea, said the Australians should “not engage” in verbal battles or “staring competitions” with Kohli but try to get the Indian skipper out of his comfort zone with “disciplined” bowling. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Australians can't say that they are not used to the conditions. I think what has to be said is that India are an amazing 50-over side. At home, India are almost unbeatable. It's a tough ask for any side. It's going to be a closely-fought series. I feel Australia will win 3-2.
 
 
 
 
 Kohli is an amazing player. Once the field spreads, he can bat safely. I don't think Australia need to get into a verbal battle or get into staring competitions with Kohli. The best way to put him under pressure is through disciplined bowling. I would like to see the Aussie quicks bowl bouncers throat-high to get him on the back foot, make him thinking about it. The follow-up ball remains the key. Make him come forward inviting the drive. If there is movement off the wicket or in the air, then the edge comes into play. Maybe they can bowl on the stumps with two catchers on the on-side. It's about getting him out of his comfort zone.
 
 
 
 
 Starc is Australia's premier fast bowler in ODIs. It's unfortunate that he is not part of the series. But I feel the others can do the job. I don't expect Cummins to play every ODI. Maybe two-three out of the five. Coulter-Nile could play as many games as possible. I know the selectors think highly of Coulter-Nile because he bowls fast and hits the pitch hard. Hopefully he can perform well in India.
 
 
 
 
 The Indian attack has the edge. The Indian seamers, Shami, Yadav, Bhuvneshwar, Jasprit Bumrah, adapt well to the surfaces in India. It appears to me that they have clear plans and are embracing the challenge of bowling on flat surfaces. I'm sure the Aussies too will go in with similar attitude and they will not think that they will be belted around. Attitude is everything with regards to bowling in Indian conditions.
 
 
 
 
 I think the Indian selectors are trying to manage the workload. They have played an incredible amount of cricket. Sometimes you need to put those needs first.
 
 
 
 
 I think he will be. His record in ODI cricket has been outstanding. For me, Zampa should always be in the Australia playing XI.
 
