SHIMLA: The issue of villagers facing threat from the transmission line laid by   Limited was raised in the state assembly by BJP legislators Jai Ram Thakur and Vinod Kumar, who claimed that the current from towers and overhead transmission line had created panic in villages of   subdivision of   district. They said that the government should send a team there. Power minister Sujan Singh Pathania assured the house that a team would be sent soon to find out the truth.

 Thakur had asked a question from the government whether the current from the towers of Parbati-Kol Dam Transmission Company Limited had created panic in the nearby villages and if yes then what steps the department had taken. He said that transmission line was laid in violation of rules and without consulting the local people. 
 
 Kumar said that towers for the transmission lines were installed without the consent of local people and many were not even paid the compensation. He said one of the affected persons Beli Ram of Naun village had been paid compensation and he was allegedly being threatened by police.
 
 Thakur asked whether a team would be sent to look into the issue as due to panic children were not venturing out of their houses and people were not going to their fields. 
 
 Pathania said that in residents of Saroa, Bahwa, Kharsi and Behri panchayats had complained of shocks from towers nos. 78 to 83, 98, 99, 103 and 107 installed for Parbati Kol Dam transmission line in Gohar sub-division of Mandi district. He said that department had conducted the inspection on March 5, 2015, and during inspection it was found that current from tower 103 was flowing into some nearby fields in   while from tower 107 current was flowing into the surroundings of Beli Ram’s house. He said in rest of villages no flow of current was detected.
 
 He said to minimize the impact of current from transmission line, department had directed the company to ensure effective earthing, which had been done for towers 78 to 83, 98, 99, 103 and 107. He said at tower 103, distance of wires from ground had been raised from 8.2m to 10m. 
 
 
