NOIDA: Scores of contractual employees of government schools, participating in statewide protests for permanent absorption by the state government as assistant teachers, after the apex court cancelled their appointment, gathered outside   minister Mahesh Sharma’s house in Sector 15A on Friday seeking intervention by Central and state governments in the issue.

 The contractual teachers received a setback when the Supreme Court ordered that they will have to pass the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) within two years for permanent absorption and till then they will have to work on contract basis.
 
 There are nearly 1.72 lakhs of shiksha mitras in Uttar Pradesh, who are on a payscale of Rs 39,000 after the implementation of seventh pay commission.
 
 However, the Allahabad high court in September 2015 quashed their appointment as assistant teachers, following which the state government and the teachers moved the Supreme Court against the order.
 
 However, now that the SC has upheld the Allahabad High Court’s order, the teachers want the government to either file a review petition against the order or write to the Centre, asking it to bring an ordinance to the effect that they get the same position. Stating that many of them have years of experience in primary education and nearly 40,000   have already cleared TET, the protesters said their livelihoods were at the stake after the decision.
 
 As the protesters lined up outside the gate of the minister’s house, traffic remain disturbed for nearly half-an-hour as they insisted on meeting the minister.
 
 “As we gathered near the park in neighbouring Sector 14, the minister came to speak to us and assured us that he will discuss our demands with the Prime Minister and human resources minister Prakash Javadekar,”  , a member of the  , Gautam   said.
 
 The shiksha mitras were appointed on a contractual basis to assist primary school teachers in rural and urban areas for Rs 2,250 but were upgraded to a payscale of Rs 39,000. The SC ruling sparked protests in the state with one of the protesters committing suicide in Baduan district on Thursday.
 
 
