KOLKATA: Sports fans in Kolkata can look forward to a treasure trove of cricket and football memorabilia from around the world. The best of artefacts from the National Football Museum in London and the MCC Museum in Lord's are set to be displayed at the Fanattic Sports Museum (FSM), inaugurated at the Eco Space in New Town on Sunday.

 Cricket legends  ,  , shooter  , athletes Dipa Malik and Devendra Jhajharia were present at the inauguration.
 
 With more than 750 sports objects on display, FSM is any sports-lover's delight. From Sachin Tendulkar's gloves and Sourav Ganguly's bats to Abhinav Bindra's Olympic gold medal and  's spikes, the collection takes your breath away. It gives you a 'complete sporting experience' and connoisseurs would love it, felt Tendulkar, who compared it to the best in the world. "I have been to the Bradman Museum in Australia and the MCC Museum at Lord's. But both are just cricket museums. FSM has so much more. Youngsters will get to know a lot about Indian sporting heroes. Many of our sporting greats are no more, but their achievements survive. This museum will keep them in our minds," said the master blaster.
 
 "Burn those extra calories without spending time on the sofa and passing remarks. If you don't mind having that extra parantha, spend ten minutes at the gym," said Sachin. Sourav Ganguly agreed. "This is a fabulous collection and I am pleasantly surprised. Youngsters will get to know about a range of greats like Bradman, Sachin, Chappell and Dhoni," he said.
 
 Cricket historian Boria Majumdar, whose personal collection is on display at FSM, said he has been gathering the objects for last 25 years. "I often felt if I was a nut to be doing this. But now that the museum has come through, I feel the effort was worth it," he said. The idea, according to Majumdar, was to break out of the 'cold and boring' museum feel and give the place an interactive, engaging ambience.
 
 "Our designer Vivek Rathod has given FSM a vibrant look," said Majumdar. Every couple of months, half of FSM's artefacts will be changed. "Nearly two-thirds of the collection is yet to be displayed. We are privileged to have been promised the entire   collection by National Football Museum. They are giving it to us on loan. Talks are on with MCC for their collection," said Majumdar.
 
 Paralympic silver medal winner Deepa Malik said she was overwhelmed by emotion walking through the museum. Recalling her school days at the Kendriya Vidyaylaya in Fort William, Deepa said her jersey , on display at FSM, made her reconnect with Kolkata. FSM will remain open from 11am to 7 pm every day.
 
