PUNE: The Bombay high court has assured an Italian national, who left for Verona in Italy with his seven-year-old adopted daughter, that no prosecution will be initiated against him if he brings back the child. 

 The man is involved in a legal tussle with his estranged wife, also an Italian, over the custody of the child. 
 
 In 2010, the couple had secured joint guardianship of the child from an adoption centre in Pune. They split later and in 2013, a family court here granted the child's custody to the husband.
 
 The wife challenged the family court's order in the high court. However, while the matter was pending, the husband left for Italy in 2015 with the child. "The wife lodged an FIR with the   police, accusing the husband of abducting her daughter," Yerawada police sub-inspector D R Hemade, who was present in the high court, told TOI on Tuesday. 
 
 Following the high court's directions, an elaborate effort was undertaken to locate the man and his daughter. The absence of an extradition treaty between India and Italy seemed to be an impediment in bringing him back with the child.
 
 On March 21, the bench of   and Justice A S Gadkari was informed that Italian police had contacted the husband in February, and that he and the child were living in the province of Verona, and domiciled in the Municipality of Vicenza, where the girl is registered at a local school. 
 
 The bench was further informed that, on the basis of a reference made by the Indian consulate in Rome, a file was opened at the Public Prosecutor's Office in the   on December 5, 2016. 
 
 The bench observed, "We are satisfied that, pursuant to directions given by this court, steps were taken by all concerned to locate the husband and daughter. We reiterate in this order that this court is giving assurance to the husband that if he brings back the child, no prosecution will be initiated against him since we are concerned about the welfare of the minor."
 
 The bench suggested that the husband have a video conference (through Skype or any other application) with the wife, along with the daughter, just to ensure she is being looked after. "If the husband decides to have such a conversation, he may inform the date and time when he wishes to do so in advance," the bench said.
 
 The bench posted the matter to April 19, and directed that this order be conveyed to the husband through the   of Venice and the external affairs ministry. It also exempted the inspector from remaining present in court for the next hearing.
 
 
