PUNE: A detailed project report (DPR) for the ring road proposed by the PMRDA will be ready in four months and civil work will start by October-November.

 The eight-lane 128km ring road will connect places on the periphery of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad.
 
 Addressing a press conference, PMRDA chief Kiran Gitte said three agencies have been selected to ready the DPR. “We have selected three agencies, including   (Hyderabad), Monarch Surveyors and Engineering Consultants Private Limited (Pune) and   (Bangalore) for readying the DPR. We have given them four months to ready the DPR,” Gitte said.
 
 He said the civil work will start six months after the DPR is ready. The entire project should take about three years for completion after the commencement.
 
 The project to be developed as an economic corridor by integrating tourism, industrial and agri-based activities is expected to ease congestion on the city roads.
 
 Gitte said in addition to this DPR, the Gujarat model of executing town planning schemes along the ring-road route at Satara Road, Solapur Road and   stretch too will be executed. “The town planning model will look at acquiring the land and developing these areas by coming up with a corporate hub along with residential facilities. Phase-wise DPR will be done for these town planning schemes that will be implemented along the ring-road route” he added.
 
 The Rs 17,412 crore ring road has gained momentum with these proposals and Gitte has assured that once the DPRs for the projects are ready, the project will be implemented. “We will initiate the project with our existing funds of Rs 400 crore and the state is expected to allocate the entire amount in phases for this project” he said, adding that they would want to show the utilisation of funds so that the state government speeds up the allocations for the project.
 
 The main aim of the ring road was to provide better connectivity and have a comprehensive development around Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. In the first year, the government has sanctioned Rs 799.65 crore annual budget for the PMRDA.
 
 Metro rail project bid on June 22
 
 Nearly five big companies have shown interest in the bidding process of the Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar elevated metro rail project. The request for quotation that was extended twice has been fixed for June 22.
 
