INDORE:   (OTBA) that was introduced to increase   among students will be discontinued from the next academic year, decided the governing body of   recently. 

 The move by the board is being criticised by students, parents and teachers as well in the city. The   agreed that this assessment was an added advantage in increasing conceptual knowledge and high order thinking among the students and it should have been continued. 
 
 “If implemented correctly, the open text based assessment would do wonders for the students. The students would work on a given situation and analyse about it in their own way which resulted in increasing their thinking abilities,” said Ritu Sinha, a CBSE school teacher and mother of two school going children. 
 
 OTBA was introduced by CBSE in class IX for the subjects Hindi, English, Mathematics, Science and Social Science and class XI in selected subjects, including Economics, Biology and Geography from March, 2014. 
 
 “Considering the modicum partial attainment of desired objectives of OTBA and also based on the feedback of stakeholders, the board subsequent to the resolution passed in the governing body meeting, has decided to withdraw the OTBA from the scheme of studies in classes IX and XI from the Session 2017-18,” reads a circular from CBSE.
 
 “It was an innovative way of learning, going away from the mugging up pattern. But, again we will have to follow the same pattern, which will be really very sad” said Manvi Bohra, a student of class XI. 
 
 “Because of OTBA, students got diverted from thinking about only marks, and tried to learn the concepts which is the real meaning of education,” said Anupriya Mishra, a student of class X. 
 
 Under OTBA, students were allowed to refer to their notes or textbooks while answering questions. Students were also provided text material four months in advance and they were allowed to carry along case studies during the examination. The focus was not on rote learning, but on applying the information accurately.
 
