ALLAHABAD: With around two crores devotees taking the   on Friday, the major bathing day of the ongoing magh mela—the   concluded smoothly.

 Amidst   made by the district administration, all roads leading to Sangam were full of devotees walking to the Magh mela area. From young boys and girls to elderly, some who could barely walk, people from all walks of life arrived in large number and bathed at the 19 temporary ghats that were made by the administration.
 
 “Taking dip on Mauni Amavasya is utmost important and weather cannot deter any of us, no matter my grandson or me as once we Ganga maiya embraces us, the cool condition hardly makes any difference”, said Rajkumar Singh, a 72 year old elderly.
 
 Battling the chilly winds and overcast conditions, people were seem arriving in the mela area since late Thursday night and lakhs of them had already taken the   before the sunrise, the practiced considered to be auspicious on this major bathing day. Despite the overcast conditions, people were seen bathing in Ganga and Sangam all day through. After bathing, lakhs of people were seen walking back to their homes carrying their luggage on their head.
 
 The mela administration along with their counterparts at Railways and roadways, had made elaborative arrangements for conducting the peaceful mela. The authorities had carefully drafted the blueprint for the smooth flow of traffic for which several diversions were made. There were ample parking space made for two and four wheelers and for the buses which brought pilgrims from other states and rural pockets of the neighbouring districts.
 
 The pilgrims were allowed to enter in the mela area from a specific road and were allowed to return from another road. The no entry zone for the two and four wheelers was strictly complied by the mela authorities.
 
 On the auspicious day, several of the denizens had organised bhandara at several places and were seen offering food to the pilgrims. From just outside the mela area to railway and bus station to the roads leading out from the city, locals, organisations and groups, all were seen actively involved in offering free food and snacks to the tired pilgrims who had to walk long distances to reach their destination.
 
 While some were seen providing Khichadi, others had puri-sabji for the pilgrims and fellow denizens. There were some of the selected stalls which offered tea and biscuits to the tired devotees. These bhandara’s operated from the tents erected on the roadside and busy interjections of the city.
 
