MUMBAI: A 2,000 sq ft structure at Mahim causeway abutting the seashore, once a customs department checkpost, is now in a shambles and has become a den for drug addicts and drunkards, raising concerns that it may lead to a surge in serious crime in the neighbourhood. The residents of Mahim, particularly the  , have filed a complaint with Mumbai police about how the premises has been taken over by drug addicts and other criminals.

 “We have written to various agencies, including Mumbai police and the customs and   ment (CPWD), stating that this property be immediately taken over and at least a security guard deployed to curb increasing crime in the vicinity. All types of goons, drug addicts, drunkards and commercial sex workers have taken over the premises and the government should not be taken by surprise if there is a repeat of a Shakti Mills-like crime on the premises,“ said  , a social activist who has been pursuing the complaint. Macchi said the Mahim police had taken temporary action against the drug addicts, but they regained entry into the customs office within a few hours of the raids.
 
 The structure opposite   used to be a customs chowky to check smuggling. Today, the five-room office is full of the remains of drugs, cigarette butts, match boxes, empty beer and syrup bottles, used condoms and excreta.“During the 1992-93 riots, Reti Bunder bamboo market was burnt, and since then, the structure has been abandoned. After repairing the structure, the customs locked it. Drugs addicts and other criminals broke open the doors and took away doors and windows,“ said Jehangir Saudagar, a tenant.Mahim resident   said, “These addicts are so aggressive, if we try to evict them, they whip out razor blades and knives and attack residents. At night, we don't allow minors to go out of their homes alone. “ Following complaints, the customs recently put up two billboards here. “It's a heritage structure. We are taking up the premises soon and have written to CPWD asking them to do afeasibility study as we want to utilize the place as a guest house for our officials. We hope we will be able to finalize the plans soon,“ said  , general manager, customs.
 
