CHARMINAR: Human trafficking to   from Hyderabad is rampant.   fell prey to the promises of an agent and landed in trouble in Damam. Haseena   since the time she landed in Saudi Arabia on October 18, 2016. Not that her woes will end when she returns as she would need medical treatment for all the injuries she suffered after she was pushed from the third floor of a building in Damam. 

 According to sources, at least six women from Sanathnagar were tricked and trafficked from Sanathnagar to Saudi Arabia to be sold as slaves there. Four of the women have been able to come back and one is still left in Saudi Arabia apart from Haseena. "It is a well-oiled machinery of agents who indulge in human trafficking," said Mohd Wajid, son of Haseena Begum.
 
 The modus operandi of the agents who indulge in human trafficking is this. The big agents are in Mumbai. Their services are taken by individual Saudi employers who want to recruit housemaids for their homes.
 
 According to sources, the main agents get anything from 6 lakh 8 lakh. The local agents in Hyderabad or any other city get a part of the amount. They in turn promise 1,500 riyals to 2,500 riyals for a housemaid. An amount of 36,000 or more sounds attractive for women in poverty who fall for the promises of the agents. 
 
 It is learnt that once the woman is trafficked, which is often not directly to Saudi Arabia but through Dubai, she is helpless. The salary is not paid. The employer demands work up to 20 hours a day. She may not even know where her location is. "My mother used to be beaten badly when she asked for salary. The employer would hit her with shoes or belts," Mohd Wajid said. 
 
 The reason why most of the times the Saudi employer (kafil) refuses to   is that he thinks he had bought a slave. The agents are supposed to 'buy slaves' for the kafil with the amount he gives them. So when the housemaid or employee asks for salary, the kafil refuses to pay.
 
  In some cases, the agents try to mollify the human trafficking victims by paying three months salary in advance.
 
