BENGALURU: Besides bringing down more than a hundred trees, and plunging many parts of the city in darkness, the heavy rain that lashed Bengaluru on Saturday evening added to the mobility woes of citizens.

 It took Bhagyashree Kulkarni 90 minutes to complete a 3km-journey from the Sai Baba temple at Cambridge Layout in  , to her home in   on Saturday.“The journey usually takes less than 10 minutes,“ said Bhagyashree. “I decided to take a cab home when it started raining. It took me nearly ten minutes to find one but the driver said he was stuck in traffic, and cancelled the ride. I tried to get another cab on   and Uber for an hour, but to no avail. I finally took an auto,“ said Bhagyashree, adding that she had to cough up Rs 100 for a ride that would have cost Rs 40 on another day.
 
 Bhagyashree was among the thousands of citizens who found themselves stranded various places across the city on Saturday evening.
 
 Difficulties they faced in finding a cab on Saturday brought home a harsh truth home for Bengalurenas ­ that the app-based taxi services, on which they have grown so dependent, cannot be relied on in all conditions.
 
 However, the Motor Vehicles Act 1989, and the Karnataka On-demand Transportation Technology Rules 2016, empower citizens to lodge a complaint against errant autorickshaw drivers and cabbies who refuse rides.
 
 Sameer Banerjee, 49, a resident of Ramamurthy Nagar, said he couldn't find a cab for a long time, to return home from MG Road. “I kept trying to find a cab till 11pm.The apps constantly flashed a message that read `there are less cabs due to high demand'. I had to call a friend, who dropped me home,“ Sameet told TOI.
 
 Varsha Sangamnerkar, 60, a resident of HAL II Stage, had a similar experience. Having gone to Doddanekundi to attend a family function on Saturday, Varsha said that she could not find a cab for 45 minutes. “It started raining just when I was about to leave. After we couldn't book a cab, we asked a family member to drop us home. What's the use of these apps if you can't find a cab when you need it the most,“ she said.
 
 With inputs from Shreyasee Subhash Kulkarni
 
 
 
 
 Sources in the app-based aggregator companies said the platforms were designed in such a way that drivers had the right to log off whenever they chose to. “Drivers may or may not choose to work when it rains. The platforms do not have absolute control over drivers. They can choose to log off if they want,“ said a source.
 
 An Uber spokesperson said that the company was committed to providing reliable, convenient and safe transport to everyone. “To make this possible, we've developed a platform that uses complex algorithms to connect passengers with our driver partners. Features such as Heat Map on the driver's app help us maintain marketplace efficiency.We can direct drivers to those locations where the demand is high to ensure that demand ratios balance out at the earliest,“ he added.
 
 Ola, however, refused to respond to TOI's queries.
 
