BHOPAL: BJP’s push for corruption-free governance has hit a speed bump in Maharajpur village of   district where a section of officials allegedly siphoned Rs 20 lakh from the MP’s Fund in the name of building four roads. 

 Strangely, the matter came to light almost two years after the alleged fraud was committed. What’s more, the administration is yet to file a police complaint against the accused.
 
 On June 12, 2014,   member Prabhat Jha had recommended construction of four roads in Maharajpur in Jaura block. Administrative approval for the project was given on September 30, 2014. It was decided that two concrete roads, 225m long, would be built at an estimated cost of Rs 5 lakh each and two other 230m-long concrete roads for Rs 5 lakh each will be sanctioned by the district administration in Maharajpur panchayat area.
 
 In order to start the work in time, the administration sanctioned Rs 10 lakh as first instalment to the CEO of Janpad panchayat, Jaura, and Rs 9,95,913 as second instalment, say sources. The panchayat was authorised by the administration as the main agency to get the work accomplished. On December 15, 2014, the Janpad panchayat CEO handed over the completion plan with documents and photos of the roads to the administration following which Rs 19,95,913 was released as payment to the agency.
 
 However, in 2016, the administration came to know through various sources that the work assigned to the CEO Janpad panchayat was not taken up at all. Shocked by the revelation, the district planning committee called a meeting to assess the work on August 5, 2016, and November 19, 2016, and then formed a committee to investigate the construction of the four roads. The panel’s report confirmed that not even one of the four roads was completed. Construction was not taken up at all and the amount was withdrawn through false billing, the report said.
 
 The district administration issued a showcause notice to seven officers of the Janpad and ordered their suspension. Sources say that notices were issued to R K Gupta, former SDO of rural engineering service,  , former engineer of MNREGS, D C Dixit, sub-engineer of Jaura, Balwant Singh Mawase, former CEO of Jaura (now CEO of Sohagpur in Hoshangabad), Jivaram Narvaria, former sub-engineer (adhoc), Munni Gupta, assistant Grade 3, and D D Chaturvedi, former assistant statistical officer and in-charge district planning officer of Morena, who is now posted as statistical officer in Gwalior.
 
 “We found that there was blatant violation of government norms and cheating by the officials of Janpad panchayat, Maharajpur, in the construction of four roads. We have slapped showcause notices on the officials involved in the scam and asked police to register a case against the guilty persons for further action,” Morena district collector Vinod Sharma told TOI. 
 
 On February 14 this year, the district collector wrote to the police station in-charge of Civil Lines, Morena, to file an FIR against the officials accused in the fraud. However, police are yet to file a case. 
 
 “We have not received any letter from the collector’s office in connection with cheating in the name of road construction. In such cases, the administration provides a detailed investigation report and forwards a letter to police for further action,” said Yogesh Singh Jadon, IC of Civil Line police station, Morena. He also asked TOI for a copy the letter written by the collector to police for registering a case in the alleged scam. Interestingly, the Rajya Sabha MP was not aware of any cheating in the case. Prabhat Jha told TOI that he was not aware of any such cheating.
 
 Sources in the administration said that a section of officials is trying to hush up the matter, which is why it’s been hanging fire since 2014. The delay in filing a police case is also surprising, they said.
 
