NEW DELHI: India should take effective steps to address intense competition in its telecom industry, make consolidations easier to ensure smoother exits, and alter its policy stance of treating the sector as a source for maximising revenue, top executives and analysts told ET after a long-pending merger proposal was called off Sunday. 

 “The proposed merger (Reliance Communications-Aircel) is unravelling because of debt issues, which is why we have been saying that the issue of debt and revenue must be addressed, as the flip side of debt is your ability to repay,” said  , director general of Cellular Operators Association of India ( ). 
 
 “The policy should move from maximising revenue extraction from the industry to enhancing the financial health and stability of the industry.” Mathews’ comments came after the Anil Ambani-owned   called off its merger with Aircel, the Indian telecom arm of Malaysia’s Maxis Group. 
 
 “Merger agreements with Aircel (are) allowed to lapse by mutual consent," RCom said in a statement in the evening. It attributed the decision to ‘inordinate delays caused by legal and regulatory uncertainties, various interventions by vested interests, policy directives impacting bank financing for telecom, and changed industry dynamics.’ 
 
 “This is certainly not a good situation. With the M&A policy being there, the merger should have been much faster,” said Prashant Singhal, TMT leader for emerging markets at Big 4 consulting firm EY. The merger was announced more than a year ago. The industry’s debt, largely accrued due to spectrum purchases, presently stands at Rs 5 lakh crore. Major telcos have already sought relief from the central government, which on Friday increased the period to pay back the installments to 16 years instead of 10 at present. The interest rate on late-payment penalties has also been lowered by 2-3%. 
 
 “The government has already done the debt restructuring (deferred payments),” Mathews said. Among the other measures aimed at restoring the industry’s health are those recommended by the regulator — redefinition of AGR, reduction in SUC to 1%, and scrapping license fees. 
 
 “This double taxation issue of spectrum charges upfront and revenue share later must be addressed. These are systemic issues the government has to deal with to the get the industry back on its feet,” Mathews added. But former   chief executive officer   said that for any company to survive the intense competition locally, the most critical requirement is to have deep pockets to simultaneously fight the competition and generate revenue. 
 
 “It's a foregone conclusion that you need a deep-pocketed player to withstand the sort of environment that exists in telecom today, and the transformation (to 5G) that the industry will face in future. The industry has taken a turn permanently to move from perfect competition to oligopoly. Any player not fitting into that oligopolistic environment where 3-5 players will exist will not find a sustainable business case,” Kapoor said.
