AMETHI: A different ‘lila’ plays itself out on the Ram Lila grounds in Amethi on Monday, as the crowds wait for chief minister   to address a campaign rally for the SP.

 Not far from the Bhetua block, where BJP workers sing songs and refer to him as the “balaatkari mantri”, Gayatari Prasad Prajapati sits in the Ram Lila grounds, put his face in his hands, and weeps. Surrounded by unsuspecting people from neighbouring villages, and with hawk-eyed cameras watching his every move, Gayatri sobs, telling on lookers in between his histrionics, the chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had refused to share the stage with him.
 
 Prajapati is accused of raping and sexually assaulting a woman in his constituency. A few days ago, the Supreme Court intervened and directed the UP police to file a case against the minister. Akhilesh, image conscious especially in the aftermath of the PM’s barb, is not willing to compromise. Prajapati will not be on stage when the CM comes. The legislator minister -- running for a second term in office -- stays among the crowds, at the rear end of the Ram Lila grounds.
 
 When chief minister Akhilesh Yadav arrives at the rally grounds, he walks into a packed house. Women, men, youth, all wear the trademark red caps emblazoned with the cycle symbol in show of support to the SP. Akhilesh focusses his attack on PM Modi. “We have heard Mann Ki Baat. Now, people want to hear Kaam Ki Baat,” Akhilesh says. 
 
 Responding to the PM’s allegations, that UP government gave power supply on Ramzan but not on Diwali, Akhilesh alleges the Prime Minister is misleading the people of the country. “We in India revere the Ganga. We swear by it. I ask the prime minister to swear on the Ganga and say whether his charge is true. But he won’t. Because it is untrue.”
 
 Not once during his 13-minute speech does Akhilesh refer to the SP nominee  . He peddles development, promises increased Samajwadi pension to women, cycles for school girls who do well, and better law and order facilities with the UP 100 scheme if re-elected. Barely 50 metres away from Amethi’s Dadan Sadan – the election office of Congress’ Amethi nominee Ameeta Sinh – Akhilesh barely refers to the SP-Congress alliance, or even that the SP and Congress are engaged in a “friendly” fight here.
 
 He starts by saying the cycle is moving faster with the support of the Congress’s hand, but adds in the same breath: “Jab do raniyan ladti hain to batao kisko fayda hota hai? Humne madad kardi thi jab makaan pe kabza hua tha. Lekin ab cycle pe button dabana.” (When two queens fight, who will benefit? I helped them when their house was encroached up. But now, vote for the cycle)
 
 Life size photos of Gayatri Prajapati peep out at the crowds as Akhilesh leaves the stage. Prajapati’s nephew Arun, who is on stage instead of his uncle, folds his hands and appeals for votes. And soon after Akhilesh’s departure, the local songster takes centre stage and breaks out in chaste Awadhi: “Modi ka aithan dheela karo, Modi ka aithan dheela karo.” (Let’s loosen Modi’s arrogance)
 
