THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   (RMPI), which has it’s the   launched against the CPM by party rebel   in 2008, will join hands with the CPM in Punjab and fight the  .

 The CPI will also be part of the Left alliance in the northern state and the three parties have jointly announced the list of 52 candidates.
 
 Though the move is a major jolt to both RMP state unit, led by Chandrasekharan’s confidante N Venu, and CPM state unit, both parties are trying to find solace in the fact that the alliance is not at the national level. 
 
 “RMPI has a huge base in Punjab and is being led by party secretary (Punjab) Mangat Ram Pasla, who was a prominent CPM leader in the past. The alliance is a tactical one to fight the fascist forces. There won’t be any change in party’s stance towards CPM in the state,” said RMPI central committee member K S Hariharan.
 
 He added that the proposal for a broad electoral alliance in Punjab was mooted in the central committee by Pasla, which the committee eventually approved. “The suggestion was to form an alliance of CPM, CPI, CPI (ML-Liberation) and RMPI,” he said.
 
 CPI state secretary Hardev Singh Arshi, CPM state secretary Charan Singh Virdi together with Pasla announced the alliance at Jalandhar on Thursday and published the first list of candidates. CPI will contest in 25 seats, CPM in 14 and RMPI in 13 seats.
 
 CPM CC member Neelolpal Basu, who is in charge of Punjab, said the party expected to fare better by forging the left alliance. “We are hoping to contest in 55 to 60 seats. Crisis in agriculture and cottage industry and the misery caused by the demonetisation policy will be raised as campaign issues,” CPM mouthpiece Deshabhimani quoted Basu on Saturday.
 
 The Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) was formed by Chandrasekharan, who was upset over the ideological deviations of the CPM. 
 
 The enmity between RMP and CPM culminated in the murder of Chanrasekharan in 2012. Twelve people including three CPM local leaders were convicted in the case and have been serving prison term.
 
 In September, last year, RMP joined hands with 10 other rebel Communist movements to form RMPI. Pasla’s CPM (Punjab) and   Marxist Party are other major factions that merged with RMPI.
 
