KOLKATA: The National Institutional Ranking Framework ( ) of universities and colleges and technology institutes has other parameters for evaluation, apart from quality teaching, that have put   ahead of others across the country.

 Teaching is a component of the NIRF rankings no doubt, but institutions have judged on other parameters, like research and number of patents earned, number of publications, placement of graduates and also entrepreneurship. This apart, students from other states coming to the university and the overall perception also count. 
 
 JU has climbed the NIRF ladder on these counts faster than CU, which ranked 27th against JU’s 12th. However, both these universities scored more than other centrally funded institutes in Bengal. 
 
 Though IIT-Kharagpur bagged the 4th rank in the country, it lags behind IIM-C and IISER, Kalyani, when it comes to the teaching and learning segment.
 
 JU and CU have an edge over other central universities in the ‘graduation outcome’ category, which is based on their performance in university examination, their students’ entry into top universities for higher studies, the quality of placements and their average salary, and the number of PhD students. In this category, CU stands second and JU sixth. But JU has trumped CU in the research and professional practices category.
 
 Other universities are yet to meet their level under these two categories. The only parameters where the state universities are lagging is the ‘outreach and inclusivity’ segment where JU has secured the 357th rank and CU 547th. “While IIM-C offers a good mix of the above criterion, other institutes from Bengal lag behind,” said a higher education department official.
 
 “Most students now prefer JU over CU as they believe the standard of teaching is higher. My own ranking is that JU is ahead of CU,” said educationist Amal Mukhopadhyay.
 
 He added that JU and CU have faced student trouble, which could be the reason why guardians are wary of sending their wards here, resulting in the poor score in the outreach and inclusivity parameter.
 
 “We are number one among state universities because of the creativity in the teaching-learning process and a strong interdisciplinary approach. But the support JU should receive from the Centre isn’t coming,” said vice-chancellor Suranjan Das.
 
