PATIALA: E-tendering for various purchases has exposed an answer sheet scam worth Rs 1 crore allegedly by some top officials of  . In the past 10 years, the university was billed at inflated rates and the number of answer sheets bought was double of what was required for conducting annual examinations.

 The officiating vice-chancellor of Punjabi University, Anurag Verma, said he had sought details after the matter was brought to his notice and that he would order an inquiry into the allegations.
 
 Records accessed by TOI revealed that the university was billed at double the price quoted in e-tenders. Prof  , who is a member of the purchase committee, said the varsity had bought answer sheets worth around Rs 2 crore in the past decade and almost half the amount was embezzled. 
 
 Previously, a ream of S S Maplitho paper of 20x30 inches specification was sold to the university at Rs 1,270, while in the recent e-tendering the same ream was quoted at Rs 765. A ream of same brand with a 45.5x50 cm specification was quoted at Rs 522, while the university paid Rs 1,000 for the same earlier. The 51x60 cm paper was sold at Rs 1,200 a ream, which has now been quoted at Rs 666 in the e-tendering.
 
 A 36-page answersheet was sold to the university at Rs 11.26 each and 24-page answer sheet at Rs 9.64 apiece. In e-tendering, these rates were quoted at Rs 5.7 each for a 36-page answer sheet and Rs 4 for a 24-page booklet. It was also revealed that the university required only 15 lakh answer sheets each year but orders of 30 lakh answer sheets were placed by the purchase committee. The extra answer sheets were sold as waste paper, it was alleged.
 
 All these were bought from  , whose owner Rajinder Mittal runs a printing press in Sangrur. He could not be contacted for his comments on the issue.
 
 Prof Pushpinder Gill, who had raised the issue, said only after they mounted pressure on the university authorities, was he made a member of the purchase committee. When he pushed for e-tendering of the answer sheets, the scam emerged. He said a complete assessment could reveal the quantum of the scam. He said the quality and size of answer sheets were also found not to be of the same specifications as mentioned in tender documents.
 
