CHENNAI: Voters in R K Nagar keen on voting for either   (Amma) or AIADMK (Purachithalavi  ) party may have a tough time searching for their preferred candidate and symbol on the electronic voting machines (EVMs) as both the parties, as they are not recognized by the  , would appear lower down the list. 

 As per the Election Commission rules, names of candidates of recognised and registered parties alone will appear on top of the EVM. Other candidates will be below them. In 2015 and 2016, R K Nagar voters would have found the AIADMK symbol 'two leaves' as one of the top few on the EVM as   was the candidate and the AIADMK had a state-level party status as per the   norms. The fight for the symbol and party name between the   and O Panneerselvam factions has resulted in both being frozen for the R K Nagar by-election.
 
 With more than 70 candidates contesting in the April 12 by-election, the names of T T V Dhinakaran as well as E Madhusudanan will be listed mostly along with those of independent candidates. 
 
 "As per the amended Section 38 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, names of candidates on the ballot paper are to be arranged under three categories. Candidates of recognised national parties and state political parties, candidates of registered unrecognised political parties and independent candidates. Therefore, names of candidates will be arranged in that order on the ballot papers," a senior EC official told TOI. The names of candidates in each category will be arranged alphabetically. The serial numbering will, however, be continuous for all three categories, the official said. Apart from the two AIADMK factions, there are candidates from the DMK, which has a state party status and the   and CPM, which have national party status.
 
 In the present election, candidates' names as well as his or her photos with the symbol concerned will be printed on the ballot paper/EVM. 
 
 "We are aware of the problem and during the campaign itself we are educating the voters about the new symbol. We are telling them that our symbol will appear lower down the order. 
 
 It will take time for us to educate the voters, but the response for our candidate has been good so far," said a Madhusudanan supporter, R S Rajesh from R K Nagar.
 
 "We are waiting for the withdrawal of nominations, for which the deadline is March 27. Soon after that, printing of ballot papers will start and we are hopeful of getting a copy of the ballot so that we will know where the name of our candidate appears," said Rajesh.
 
 Meanwhile, there will be more than 4 balloting units in each booth as the number of candidates is likely to be more than 70. Each balloting unit can hold 16 names of candidates only.
 
