AGRA: Snaking through the country, several ‘Pythons’ and ‘Anacondas’ are helping deliver a small revolution for the railways.

 Looking to optimise existing infrastructure to boost freight operations as well as ease congestion on the tracks, the transporter is employing trains over 1.4 kilometres long with as many as 118 wagons.
 
 North Central Railways’ ‘Python’, Western Railways’ ‘Anaconda’, Central Railways’ ‘Maruti’ and other long-haul trains are not only helping deliver goods quicker, but are also efficient and cost-effective, said officials.
 
 Each of these trains is made up of two rakes (59 wagons in each), two brake vans and two to three locomotives, and travels nonstop to its destinations.
 
 Long-haul trains were identified as a focus area in the railways’ passenger and freight sector action plan for 2017-18, “to meet freight traffic demands requiring movement across already congested sections and to reduce the per-unit cost of operation...” Sanchit Tyagi, divisional commercial manager, Agra division said, “The concept of long-haul trains was mooted some years ago as a pilot project to halve the time required for the journey of two trains, and increase the goods trains operation within the current infrastructure, which is heavily congested.”
 
 
 
 
 An average of 15 to 25 such trains run across the country every day. The target is to increase the number to 50 by the end of March 2018, said officials.
 
 These trains require longer loop lines, a railway branch line that leaves the main line and rejoins it after a short distance, where trains wait while others can pass. Three such long loop lines have been commissioned, and a total of 109 have been sanctioned across India.
 
 Tyagi added, “Almost every second day, we make a long-haul train out of empty wagons (used to ferry coal) near Baad station (next to Mathura). We have a maximum of 45 minutes for this... Since the trains look like long snakes, they are named after the reptiles.”
 
 On December 15, 2014, Southern Railways created a record by operating a longhaul freight train for the first time. The total weight of the formation was 3,000 tonnes.
 
 
 
 
