GUWAHATI: Railway minister   on Sunday flagged off the   between Naharlagun in   and Guwahati, bringing down the   by at least two hours. 

 The Naharlagun Express used to take around eight hours to cover the distance, but the Shatabdi will complete the journey in six hours. "This superfast fully air-conditioned train will cover the distance in six hours. It will start from Naharlagun at 5am and arrive in Guwahati at 11am on every Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday. From Guwahati it will leave at 3.20pm and arrive in Naharlagun at 9.20pm on every Monday, Wednesday and Friday," North East Frontier Railway (NFR) chief public relations officer (CPRO), Pranav Jyoti Sharma, said. 
 
 Prabhu, who inaugurated the new train service through video link from the NFR headquarters here, also laid the foundation stone for the construction of a 26-km-long new broad gauge railway line from Murkongselek in Assam to Pasighat in Arunachal Pradesh.
 
 Arunachal CM Pema Khandu, Union minister of state for railways Rajen Gohain and Union minister of state for home affairs Kiren Rijiju were among the dignitaries present at the Naharlagun railway station during the flag-off ceremony.
 
 Prabhu also announced the commencement of surveys for seven new broad gauge lines in Arunachal Pradesh as a part of the Centre's initiative to link the strategically important frontier state with full-fledged railway connectivity. The total length to be covered by the survey is 594 km.
 
 Prabhu said the railway ministry is giving high priority to the North-east with about Rs 90,000 crore worth of rail projects being executed in the region. He added that in the last three years alone the ministry has invested close to Rs 3.5 lakh crore in various railway projects in the country for capacity enhancement.
 
 "The railways is committed to not only provide better connectivity but also better passenger experience. The railways will soon launch a new application for mobile platform to address passenger grievances," Prabhu, who also visited the Kamakhya temple here, said. 
 
 Sharma said the seven surveys are targeted to increase the connectivity by linking important locations in Arunachal Pradesh. 
 
 The railways have already decided to carry out surveys on strategic lines connecting Tawang, Along and Parsuramkund, and efforts are on to complete them by December next year.
 
 Tawang, located at 10,000 feet above the sea level and bordering China, is one of the most challenging tasks as the railways plan to construct tracks at an altitude ranging between 500 feet to 9000 feet above sea level. The project has to go through hilly and mountainous terrain.
 
 The seven new surveys to be commenced are on the 25-km Lekhapani-Kharsang line; the 18-km Itakhola-Seijosa stretch, the 96-km Doodooma to Wakro via Simulguri, Namsai and Chowkham sector; the 60-km line between Dangri and Roing; the 20-km Naharkatia-Deomali line, the 75-km Lekhapani to Napnong-New Khamlang-Deben stretch and the 300-km line from Tinsukia (Longpotia) to Pasighat via Kanubari, Deomali, Lekhapani, Jairampur, Kharsang, Miao, Diyun, Tezu, Bhismaknagar, Roing and Dambuk.
 
 
