Pune: The city   has been steadily flying backwards in terms of international aircraft movement in the first three months of the year. However, it has fared well in domestic aircraft movement and air traffic, shows a report by the Airports Authority of India (AAI).

 The report on air traffic for March is startling as international aircraft movement in the Pune airport dropped -32.9% compared with the same period last year. 
 
 The figures for January and February this year are also lesser when compared with the same period in 2016.
 
 An AAI official from Delhi said it was difficult to ascertain the c ause of this. He told TOI, “One has to check a lot of things. Not many international flights take off from the Pune airport. I am not sure but the frequency in flights may have dropped.”
 
 Four airlines presently operate international flights from the Pune airport, which is in the process of being expanded. —
 
 From Pune, an Air India flight operates to Dubai on Tuesday, Thursday and Sundays while a SpiceJet flight to Dubai operates daily. The Jet Airways has a direct flight to Abu Dhabi every day. The airline has more flights to the destination but they aren’t direct flights. Lufthansa also operates a flight to Frankfurt from here. The German airline recently announced an increase in its flight frequency from the Pune airport. From June 1, six flights would be operated from here, it said.
 
 While Pune airport director Ajay Kumar remained unavailable for comment, a source in the airport said the reason for the drop could be due to the drop in the frequency of non-scheduled chartered flights.
 
 “One has to go through the documents and check before coming to a definite conclusion on a reason behind the same. The unscheduled flights to the airport, or for that matter any airport, keeps increasing and decreasing, and that might be a reason,” an official said.
 
 Unscheduled flights, which are primarily charted flights, operate irregularly and are planned at a short time before flying, unlike scheduled flights, which follow a fixed routine.
 
 Another official said there was no drop in the frequency of scheduled flights from the Pune airport.
 
 “The airport is expanding and has scored well in all aspects, whether in the case of domestic flight movement or domestic and international air traffic (see box). One of the main reasons for the expansion is to ensure more flights, both to domestic and international locations. The recently started e-visa facility at the airport is an indication of the plan,” the official said.
 
 
