The summer brings with it a host of things to look forward to, and not. While the list of not-so-good things about the season might be long, one thing that excites us is the availability of a variety of juicy fruits — ones that we might not get during the rest of the year. Indigenous, homegrown fruits are regular features, but there is also an influx of exotic fruits from around the globe around this time. While some of them are grown commercially in India, they don’t come close to their native varieties. Here’s a list of exotic fruits imported during the season that will keep fruit lovers not just healthy, but satisfied as well…

  
  
 
 
 
 White-fleshed pitahaya, commonly called dragon fruit, is a strange-looking, mildly-sweet fruit, with both its juicy white flesh and tiny black seeds being not just edible, but nutritious as well. Indigenous to Central and South America, they are also cultivated in Southeast Asia, Israel, Australia, Cyprus and the Canary Islands.
 
 Dragon Fruit contains no cholesterol and almost no unhealthy, cholesterol-producing fats. It’s packed with beneficial vitamins and antioxidants, and is good for the skin.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 With dark-blue to purple-black skin and semi-transparent flesh with very small, soft edible seeds, blueberries come predominantly from North America. They have a sweet taste when mature and are known for their multiple health benefits. Apart from the USA, they are also cultivated in Canada, Turkey, Peru, South Africa and Australia.
 
 Being high in nutrients, they can slow down the aging process and appear to have significant benefits for people with high blood pressure.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 This exotic, costly fruit has a nasty smell, but a unique, addictive taste. Native to Malaysia and Indonesia, the fruit is left to ripen on the tree and it is harvested only once it has fallen off. With its creamy surface and ecstasy-inducing flesh, it is considered as the ‘king of fruits’ throughout South East Asia.
 
 Durians are rich in phytonutrients, antioxidant, protein, vitamins and minerals.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 This is a small, round, alien-looking fruit that is native to the Malay-Indonesian region and other regions of tropical Southeast Asia. While its leathery skin is covered in soft spines, its firm, white flesh is juicy and sweet, with a seed in the middle. It is about the size of a lychee and has a pleasant fragrance.
 
 It is high in carbohydrates and protein content, and also has a lot of water, which acts as a tasty alternative to avoid dehydration.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Soursop fruit, also known as graviola, tastes like a combination of strawberry and pineapple, with sour citrus flavour notes contrasting with an underlying creamy texture, reminiscent of coconut or banana. The fruit is native to the tropical regions of the Americas, adapting to areas of high humidity and relatively warm winters. 
 
 It is an antioxidant fruit, which is rich in Vitamin C. Its flesh, when applied to any cut, accelerates the healing process.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Native to South America, passion fruit is known by many names, such as maracuya, grenadille and maracujá. It is cultivated commercially in tropical and subtropical areas for its sweet, seedy fruit. The yellow or dark-purple fruit is a type of berry, shaped round to oval, with a juicy interior filled with numerous seeds.
 
 It is a good source of iron, copper, magnesium and phosphorus.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Known by multiple names such as groundcherry, Inca berry, poha berry and golden berry, the fruit is indigenous to the Americas, but is grown in warm, temperate and subtropical regions around the world. The fruit is similar to a firm tomato in texture, and tastes like strawberries or pineapple, with a mild acidity. While some varieties are added to desserts as flavouring, others are used in salads.
 
 Physalis is a widely used for curing hepatitis, malaria, rheumatism cancer, dermatitis and asthma. Being rich in vitamin A, it is also good for improving eyesight and preventing night blindness.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Indigenous to south-central China, the oval fruit is very sweet and the flavour is a blend of peach, citrus and mild mango. It is popularly known as Japanese plum, but is neither native to Japan, nor is it a plum — just that it is very popular in Japan and has been cultivated there for at least 1,000 years. 
 
 It is rich in vitamin A, which nourishes the skin. It is also a good source of potassium and helps reduce the risk of heart attacks and stroke.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Believed to have originated in the Sunda Islands and the Moluccas of Indonesia, the fruit is juicy, sweet and tangy, and has a delicate texture with a mild aroma. While it is grown in southwest India, it has been 
 cultivated in Java, Sumatra, Mainland Southeast Asia and the Philippines since ancient times — the best varieties come from there.
 
 It is a good source of B-complex, vitamins such as thiamin, niacin and folates, which act as cofactors that help the body metabolize carbohydrates, protein and fats.
 
