NAGPUR:   have opposed the transplantation of a 100-year-old   at the  , Tekdi, stating that the process has no   in the city.

 As the temple is being re-constructed, the authorities had sought permission for the same from the garden department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) stating that a column for the new building needs to be constructed at the spot where the tree stands now. After completing the formalities, the NMC granted the permission on April 25.
 
 On May 1, the advisory society of the temple performed a puja of the tree and through a press release assured the devotees that the transplantation would be done at a suitable place. The authorities even urged the devotees to contact them if they have an open space in and around the city to transplant the tree.
 
 Environmentalists, however, are up in arms against the transplantation process. So, a joint inspection was conducted on Wednesday by Green Vigil Foundation, NMC officials, temple authorities and structural engineer DP Mase.
 
 During the inspection, Green Vigil founder Kaustav Chatterjee said that transplantation of trees has failed in the city. “In the recent past, no transplantation of such a huge tree was successful. We have better engineering techniques which should be applied to save this tree,” he said.
 
 After arguments with temple authorities, the experts came up with some solutions. “One of the ways is to shift the column away from the tree, keeping the outer boundary same. Another option is to push the entire structure back without changing the sanctioned plan,” said Mase and added that if both these options do not work out, they would have to transplant the tree.
 
 Environmentalists stressed that transplanting the tree would not be successful. A transplanted tree needs continuous moisture. Such conditions are difficult due to high temperatures in the city, they said. “There are many factors like acclimatization, grip of roots, nutrients and microorganisms present in the soil and groundwater table that ensure survival of the tree post transplantation,” Chatterjee said.
 
 Green activist Shrikant Deshpande pointed out that hundreds of trees that were transplanted during IRDP project in 2001 could not survive. “Trees were transplanted near GS College and Sonegaon lake, but not scientifically. For a huge peepal tree, lots of precautions will have to be taken. The roots will be very deep and it would be difficult to uproot the tree,” he said. 
 
