By: Simanti Bose

 KOLKATA/HYDERABAD: The gigantic T-town production that set the silver screen ablaze two times over ­ first in 2015 and then in 2017 ­ is now taking the streets of Kolkata by storm. And fuelling this high-pitched excitement is a multi-crore  , conceptualised by members of Sreebhumi Sporting Club, organisers of the annual festival that draws lakhs of visitors to VIP Road every year during Navratri.
 
 But this season, the club's certain, the footfall will beat all records. Courtesy its heavy embellished puja arena designed as a near-flawless replica of the expansive Mahismati kingdom from the world of S S Rajamouli's imaginative brilliance ­   ­ created within   .
 
 Even now, the set is a major tourist destination for those tra velling to the Telangana capital. Brought to life by renowned light artist from Chandan nagar (in Hooghly), Babu Paul and his co-designer Romeo Hazra, the film-set-like-pandal has on display four major scenes from two-part blockbuster that featured its leading characters -Sivagami, Mahendra, Amarendra and Devasena ­ apart from mammoth Shivalinga. All the cinematic depictions, have been created with the help of LED panels.
 
 “We zeroed in on the theme because of the great exposure the film received. While we attract tremendous response from visitors every year, this year we expect many more people to walk in to see what we have created here ­ both with the idol and the lights,“ said Sujit Bose, MLA and chief organiser of the puja. He shared how it took nearly 90 days to prepare the theme (of the pandal) and its construction involved the hard work of close to 300 people.
 
 The pandal was thrown open for general public after   chief minister Mamata Banerjee inaugurated it last week. Since then, organisers claim, curious revellers have come in droves to get a view of the extravaganza.
 
 “Bahubali is the biggest blockbuster of the era; people loved the film. Babu Paul and Romeo Hazra have contributed immensely in turning this into reality. We want to uphold the success of the film while keeping in mind the emotions of the audience associated with it.During their visit, people will cherish the memories they have of the film,“ said another member of the organising team.
 
