Responding to a nationwide call to show solidarity with the makers of ' ', a political drama mired in controversy, a small group of 20 youths held protests at the   on Wednesday evening. The protesters shouted slogans against the Congress party for its alleged role in issuing threats to director   and obstructing promotional events of the movie, which centres on the Emergency, to “cover up the gross human rights violations by former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi” during that period. 
Alleging that the Emergency was the biggest-ever blot on the Indian democracy, Constitution and freedom of media,  , who organised the protests, said, “We urge the government to extend protection to all theatres that will be screening the film in Telangana, most likely next week. This is a landmark movie exposing the excesses by   and her son,  , during the dark days of Emergency.”
 He informed that similar protests were held in 40 cities across the country to uphold artistic freedom as well as freedom of expression. “If a known Bollywood director like   is forced to take police protection in Mumbai over the politically motivated protests over his film, how will ordinary citizens and unknown artists be able to air their opinions freely?" Vallabhaneni asked. 
 S Haribabu, another protester, alleged that the Congress has stepped up an agitation against the film and Bhandarkar, fearing that the party will be exposed for its ‘anti-democratic’ stance during the Emergency. Claiming Indu Sarkar is an unbiased take on Emergency, Tarun L, a student of  , said, “This movie will help the present generation understand the horrors that citizens and truth seekers underwent in the name of Emergency. I wish the film is screened all over the country, so that our generation learns what happened in our country from 1975 to 1977.”
 Manoj Kumar S, another student, said that it’s high time filmmakers overcame their fears to portray historical events and eminent political leaders in the true light. “We need to have an unbiased view on historical movies, and filmmakers, who want to reflect on our past, must be allowed to do so without apprehension.”
 
