GANDHINAGAR: There is a nationwide concern about   accepting   to fund their  . But neither of the two main political parties in Gujarat — the   or the Congress — seems inclined to launch a formal drive to raise funds through transparent means for the  . 

 In 2012, the BJP had a ‘Dhan Sangrah’ drive while the Congress did not do anything to raise funds for the polls. Yet both parties officially spent crores of rupees. In fact, it is believed that both the parties actually spent a lot more than what they showed to the Election Commission (EC) of India. 
 
 This time neither the BJP nor the Congress appears to be preparing for a fund-raising drive. If sources are to be believed, expenditure on the polls officially is likely to cross more than Rs150 crore for each party while their unofficial spending is likely to be many times higher.
 
 In the 2012 polls, the BJP officially spent Rs 124 crore while the Congress spent Rs72.66 crore officially. This is what the parties said to the EC in 2012.
 
 Gujarat Congress got Rs71.53 crore in donations and spent Rs72.66 crore in the 2012 assembly elections. However, Gujarat BJP outspent the Congress in the 2012 polls. According to the Election Expenditure Accounts submitted to the EC, the BJP’s state unit had Rs170 crore opening balance on 17 November 2012. The party received Rs53.29 crore in donations in the 17 November 2012 to 24 December 2012 period and spent Rs124.44 crore in the same period. On the closing day of the election accounts, the BJP had Rs156.6 crore balance. 
 
 State BJP president Jitu Vaghani said his party had not planned any fundraising drive yet. “The requirement of funds depends upon the need for publicity and related events,” he said. “The BJP has always followed the norms set by the EC. I cannot give any estimate but the amount we spend will be according to EC norms.”
 
 BJP veteran and treasurer Surendra Patel said the party has not yet planned any drive to raise funds for the elections. When asked about his estimate of how much the party will need, Patel said this has not yet been worked out. “But the expenses will definitely be higher than the 2012 polls” Patel said.
 
 State Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki said that the party has not yet worked out a plan. “But we are thinking of publishing books and bonds to raise funds,” he said.
 
 
