Mixed martial arts have been called the gladiator games of our times. With two supremely-trained and fit fighters going against each other in a steel cage, the bloodthirsty sport is not for the faint-hearted. From broken bones to concussions, injuries that would make ordinary people shudder are part and parcel of an   fighter's life. What makes the arena even more challenging for female Indian fighters is that they have to also fight societal norms and age-old notions that they are not tough enough for contact sports. Yet, the number of female MMA fighters in Delhi continues to rise.

  
 Players say that despite MMA being one of the most brutal contact sports, the number of girls taking it up is steadily increasing, particularly in NCR, where the number has increased three-four times in the last few years. Aditi Singh, a 24-year-old MMA fighter from the city, says, "When I started four years ago, there were very few MMA athletes. But the number of girls taking it up in gyms around Delhi has increased 3-4 times since then. That has happened because of more professional competitions in India, along with greater exposure."
 
  
 Even though the number of female fighters has gone up, most girls say they still have to spar with men, mainly to train and test their limits. The girls say that far from taking them lightly, their male fighters actually go harder on them since they don’t want to lose to a girl.  , a 20-year-old fighter from west Delhi, says, "Recently, at a boot camp, I had to fight two guys, both weighing almost 20kgs more than me. They don’t give you an inch. They still go for the same slams and choke holds that they would use against male opponents."
 
 "They throw you around like a rag doll at times because they don’t want to be dominated by a woman," Monika adds. Aditi says, "In practice or while sparring, boys don’t like to be belittled by girls. So even if they hold back initially, as soon as they sense that the girl is giving it her all, they also hit harder. There is no special consideration for us."
 
 
 
  
 
  
 Female fighters say that the sport not only looks brutal, but takes a heavy toll on the body too. Most of them agree that at any given point, they are nursing at least one serious injury, but the training doesn’t stop. Keerti Rana, who moved from   to Delhi for better training, says, "If you ask any girl to get a full-body X-ray done, you will find one or two cracked or chipped bones at any time. We have gotten used to fighting with injuries that normal people won’t even be able to walk with."
 
  Monika, who has fought in the  , adds, "Even right now, my right hand has a hyaline fracture, but I'm continuing with practice and fights as usual. You get used to injuries, and not just cuts and bruises but even broken bones. It’s a part of your daily life in MMA. In this sport, you are never 100% okay."
 
  
  Female fighters at the recent MMA league in Delhi
 
 
 
  
 If the pressure of succeeding in a brutal and taxing sport wasn’t enough, most fighters do not receive any support from their families as well.  , a Delhi-based Nepalese fighter, who was adjudged the best fighter at the Super Fight League 2017, recounts, "My family was dead against it. They used to ask me try a sport which befits girls, something softer. They would ask, 'What if you permanently damage your face? Who will marry you?' I tried to convince them but when I couldn’t, I just packed my bags and left home. The only way they came around was when I started winning."
 
  Keerti Rana, another MMA fighter, adds, "My family wasn’t against tae kwon do or boxing, because they look more like sports, while MMA looks very brutal. They used to ask 'Kya karegi aise lad kar? Kahin haddi toot gayi toh?' When I would come back home with a bruised face or a black eye, they would raise a hue and cry over it, saying things like, ‘Itna achha chehra hai, kyun fight se kharab kar rahi hai’."
 
  
 Thulasi Helen, a champion boxer-turned-MMA fighter, says, "Even if we have family support, we have to face a lot of ridicule. Guys jokingly ask if I could be their bodyguard or say that I don’t look like a girl because of my bruised or swollen face. Of course all that makes me feels bad, but I don’t think about it and focus on my training instead."
 
  Aditi adds, "As long as you are fighting or are in a training camp, things are good. Everyone is an athlete there, so they understand. But outsiders don't. Male friends come up and say bizarre things like, 'Tera toh manicure kaharab ho jaata hoga fighting se', as if I care about that when I’m in the ring. It's tough to be taken seriously as an MMA fighter. Most think it’s just a fad which will pass."
 
 
 
