NEW DELHI: Overseeing the   constituency stands the high-rising glass-panelled   — the corporation headquarters. Still, this part of Old Delhi holds testimony to   and  . “I have grown up in the area and not much has changed in the last three decades,” said   (31), a resident of Kuncha Harjasmal. 

 Kahsyap’s assertions that the area is arrested in time and facing slow deterioration are echoed by several residents. Overhanging maze of wires, mess during the monsoon due to absence of proper drainage, dug-up alleys, congestion due to godowns and lack of clean public toilets — there are issues in virtually every sector that the civic body is responsible for. 
 
 The delimitation exercise has massively changed the contours and frameworks of the north corporation wards that fall under the Matia Mahal constituency. While the Walled City is getting increasingly commercialised that means there is very less increase in the number of people living there, the areas in outer Delhi have seen a massive spike in population. The erstwhile four wards of Turkman Gate, Bazar Sita Ram, Minto Road and Kuncha Pandit have been reshuffled into three wards to even out the difference in population in other constituencies. The three new wards are Ajmeri Gate, Bazar Sita Ram and Delhi Gate.
 
 Congestion and haphazard development remain the core problems of the area. The narrow lanes and alleys have been encroached by unauthorised construction over the years, vendors have occupied roads and godowns are being operated out of residential areas. “There were plans to relocate the godowns to industrial areas and the whole Walled City was to be redeveloped under the Shahjahanabad redevelopment plan but the plans remain on paper,” said Nasir Khan, a trader from Bazar Sita Ram.
 
 Lack of safety measures in the area, which is home to many old structures, is another concern. The civic body conducts surveys to identifying dangerous structures but no action is taken after that. “Illegal construction is done on old havelis putting lives in danger,” said Pushpender Goyal, a BSES employee. The DC office on   has turned into a malba dump because of a lack of space. “The road gets choked every other day because of construction waste, causing accidents. I have seen several people getting injured. We spent our own money to get it removed from the office” said Goyal.
 
 In the last five years, each north corporation councillor received almost 40-50 lakh of local area development fund but the civic body failed to use it to improve infrastructure. The main reasons cited for this are a lack of space and the financial crisis. 
 
 Allay Mohd Iqbal, councillor from erstwhile Turkman Gate ward, said that despite the financial crisis, he has been able to add streetlights and a mobile dispensary in his area. “If I come back to the corporation, I’d want to open a barat ghar in the area,” he said.
 
 The areas falling under the Minto Road are relatively better. “The area houses corporation officers, bureaucrats, doctors etc. Obviously, they’ll get better services” said Md Irshad from Meerdard basti. 
 
 
