ROHTAK: Suspecting the hand of Haryana’s former minister of state for home   -- who is also head of   -- and a Congress leader  , in the double murder of INLD workers, leader of Opposition Abhay Singh Chautala has asked police to probe their role in the case. Two INLD workers -- Satbir Singh (40), and Amit Saharan (38) -- were gunned down by unidentified persons at the kinnow waxing plant of Pardeep Godara on Wednesday night. Godara is a close aide of  .

 “It was not an attack on my party workers, the attack seems to be on me. I and my family members usually visit the plant of Godara, and my younger son Arjun had left the plant 10 minutes before the incident,” said Chautala, while addressing a press conference at his residence in Sirsa on Friday. He said the attackers had stated before leaving that they had an unfinished task at hand, and would not miss the target again. The incident was recorded in CCTV cameras installed in the Godara’s plant. Suspecting the role of Kanda and Brar, Abhay alleged they had given the names of suspects, but the police had failed to question them so far.
 
 Notably, Congress leader Charan Singh Brar (Jagga’s brother) was murdered in Sirsa in 2006. Abhay, Pardeep, and Vinod Arora were made accused in the case. However, police had given a clean chit to Chautala in their probe, while Godara and Arora were exonerated later by the court. Linking Kanda -- who was once his close aide, before joining hands with the Congress to help it form the government in 2009 -- to the murder, Chautala said when Kanda went to Sirsa after becoming the minister, he had a quarrel with Godara. “Kanda had threatened Godara with dire consequences during the Sirsa bandh episode,” said Abhay Chautala, who is an MLA from Ellenabad.
 
 Questioning the role of police, senior INLD leader said the investigation agency had neither questioned the suspects named by them, nor had they provided security to Godara. Taking on the police further, he said   had informed Haryana Police that the Nabha jaibreak accused might be hiding in Sirsa, and conducting their criminal activities from there, but it was not taken seriously. He said the place where INLD workers were killed was a place frequently visited by him, his family members, and party leaders, including Hisar MP Dushyant Chautala, Digvijay Chautala, and his two sons Karan and Arjun. “Chief minister   has no time for law and order, as he is busy in celebrating festivals,” he alleged.
 
