Jalandhar: After the family of the two US-based Sikhs, who had gone missing on July 6 during the pilgrimage to Hemkunt Sahib in Uttarakhand, wrote to the FBI seeking its help to know their fate, the North American Punjabi Association (NAPA) has written to Union minister for external affairs Sushma Swaraj, requesting her to take up the matter with the Uttrakhand chief minister.

 US citizens Premjit Singh (63) and Harkewal Singh (38), along with their six relatives and friends from Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts, had gone to Hemkunt Sahib. They had gone missing on July 6. After a search operation for several days, the Uttrakhand police found a few parts and a logo of a Toyota vehicle along with two turbans. The authorities concluded that in all probability the vehicle fell into Alaknanda river.
 
 “At the suspected site, police found some rubber pieces, a Toyota logo, and some window sidings (which could have belonged to any vehicle). There was no evidence indicating that the few broken pieces that were brought up from the riverbank belonged to the vehicle that ill-fated passengers were traveling in. There were also two pieces of old torn up cloth that were found which police have stated belonged to the passengers. However, all the family members have seen the cloth and were certain that these cloth pieces do not belong to any of their family members,” reads the communiqué sent by NAPA executive director Satnam Singh Chahal to Swaraj.
 
 “Worst part of this tragedy and failure of the system is that no one has asked the aggrieved families what belongings their family members were carrying, what were their identifiable physical features, what type of shoes they were wearing, what type of bag packs they were carrying, or any such question,” it further said.
 
 When contacted, Chamoli superintendent of police (SP) Tripti Bhatt said she and other persons had been speaking to the kin of the missing persons and had been updating them. “There were strong skid marks on the road, which had no divider and the record of their mobile phones reflected that all of those had abruptly and instantly gone off. The turban was identified by the kin of one of the co-passengers and later Aadhaar card of the driver of the vehicle was recovered from Rishikesh from near the riverbank,” she said.
 
 “There have been instances in the past too when not only the bodies but even vehicles could not be found from the river as here the flow is very fast,” she added.
 
 
