THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   national president   would lay foundation stone for the new state headquarters of BJP here on June 4.

 The headquarters building is coming up at the   compound spread across 52 centres of land at Thampanoor here. The new facility would be a four storied building with 46,000 sq ft built up space. Addressing a news conference here, party state president Kummanam Rajasekharan told reporters that the BJP state headquarters would be built with the contributions from the public. "Apart from other facilities necessary for a party headquarters, the building would have research facilities to study and analyse the sociopolitical developments. The building would be set up on 26 cents of land. The complex would also have a statue of  ," he said.
 
 According to Kummanam, Amit Shah would reach the state on June 2 as part of his Bharatha Yathra which has already covered five states. He would spent a day in Ernakulam on June 2 and would be in Thiruvananthapuram on the two subsequent days. "The main agenda of his arrival is to spruce up the party mechanism unto the ground level and strengthen the NDA set up in Kerala. He would attend as many as 21 meetings during his stay here and this would include meeting with full time party workers in the ground level," he said.
 
 Kumanam claimed that the national president has satisfactorily addressed the issues raised by BDJS.
 
 Reacting to the controversies over action on land encroachments in Munnar, Kummam told reporters that the land auditing taken up by the accountant general was expected to be completed in two weeks’ time and based on the audit report the government should take immediate steps for the distribution of the surplus land to the landless people. "The government is hiding several facts. Several powerful persons and groups are illegally holding hundreds of acres of government land for which the lease period got elapsed several years ago. The government should publish a white paper on land encroachments, not just in Munnar, but across the state," he said.
 
