Nagpur:  , a renowned journalist and writer, was a man who never compromised on the principles he held close to his heart throughout his illustrious career spanning over decades and worked in the best interest of the society, said veteran scribe Laxman Joshi, on Thursday. 

 Joshi was speaking at a programme organized by Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh to pay tributes to Sadhu, who passed away recently, at Sanskrutik Sankul in Sitabuldi. Recalling his trait as a journalist, Joshi said that Sadhu was meticulous in his job and understood well the pulse of politicians and administrators, a quality today’s journalists need to possess. What stood him in good stead was his grasping power of the problems a common man faced and give vent to their ire through his writings, he added.
 
 Joshi said that Sadhu was known to gather news from various sources and report with such accuracy that the powers that be had to take cognisance of his hard-hitting stories. Sadhu, who hailed from Paratwada in Amravati district, earned name and fame while working for leading English newspapers in Pune and Mumbai. Taking a leaf out of his journalistic values would augur well for the society in the changed circumstances, he added.
 
 Madhuri Wagh, a close relative of Sadhu who had spent considerable time with the writer, also shared her memories and described him as a man of high stature.
 
 Speaking on the literary side of Sadhu, noted author Ravindra Shobhane said that his reports reflected the sufferings of people caused due to social and economic problems prevalent in the society. Sadhu showed his class in literary works by beautifully using his journalistic skills, leaving no loose ends. He wrote extensively on a variety of topics with telling comments on the ills of the society. Sadhu blended his knowledge of politics and elections in such a way that even a common man could understand well the currents and under-currents in various spheres, he added. 
 
 Sadhu’s novels ‘Mumbai Dinank’ and ‘Simhasan’ showcased how politicians react to various situations and take positions that suit them the best. Marathi movie ‘Simhasan’, directed by Jabbar Patel, was based on these two novels that created waves in the 80s as it showed the nexus between politicians and criminals and bitter power struggle from a journalist’s eyes, he said. 
 
 Shobhane said that Sadhu strongly believed in freedom of speech and expression and never approved of political interference in literary festivals. True to his principles, Sadhu, who was president of the Marathi Sahitya Sammelan held at Nagpur in 1980, left the literary meet at Sangli the next year midway, expressing his displeasure over the prominence politicians were given over littérateurs.
 
 President of Akhil Bharatiya Sahitya Mahamandal Shripad Bhalchandra Joshi said that writers like Sadhu are rare these days. His books ‘Tisri Kranti’ and ‘Fidel, Che aani Kranti’ are landmarks in their own way. 
 
 
