LUCKNOW: On her maiden visit to eastern UP,   MP   sought votes as 'muhdikhai' at her election rally in Jaunpur on Sunday as she sharpened her attack on the   and warned the electorate of BSP at the same time.

 Beginning her address, the wife of UP CM Akhilesh Yadav struck an instant connect with the people when she sought muhdikhai--a ritual where family members gift a bride when they see her face for the first time. “ ..... Main pehli baar poorvanchal aayi hoon .... mujhe muhdikhai milegi ... poora vishwas hai ....,“ (I have come to Poorvanchal for the first time. I am confident I will get the gift (of votes) as muhdikhai).
 
 The Kannauj MP went on to talk of the possible post poll pact between BJP and BSP to form a coalition government in UP drawing a rather uncanny analogy with the ima ges on the new Rs 2,000 currency note. “They (government at Centre) have printed the new Rs 2,000 note which has the elephant and lotus printed side by side,“ she said. Images of an elephant (BSP symbol) and lotus (BJP's election symbol) are part of the panel of images on the new currency note.
 
 Attacking the BJP leadership in general and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in particular, Dimple questioned the saffron brigade on their claims that UP tops the crime charts. She said every time the BJP says crime rate is high in UP , it pains her. “Humare Uttar Pradesh ko badnaam na karein“ (Don't defame my Uttar Pradesh) she said.Backing her argument with government statistics, she said UP stood 25 (-1) th in India in crime against women and the BJP ruled states were in fact on the top of the list.
 
 Hitting out at Modi's “KabristanShamshan“ jibe, Dimple said it is sad people see religion in power supply as well. “s“ (People see Hindu and Muslim when they talk about electricity) she said expressing concern over the impact of such discourse on the next generation. “This is what we want to teach our children“ she said, training guns at BSP superemo Mayawati and referring to her as Buaji (Aunt). She said in the past Mayawati had thrice joined hands with the BJP to form a government. “Buaji rakhi le kar khadi hui hain“ (Mayawati is standing with the rakhi again) said Dimple.
 
