NAVI MUMBAI: The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s (NMMC)   work in sector 19/A,   that was inaugurated on Friday has come under political crossfire. 

 The market is expected to accommodate 200 vegetable vendors is facing   from   Avinash Lad, who had sought scrapping of the project. While the civic body has failed to do so, Lad has threatened to go on an indefinite hunger strike. 
 
 Recently, Lad questioned the legality of the market based on the response he received from the town planning, law and health departments at the general body meeting held on Wednesday, which said the project being constructed using MLA Manda Mhatre was legally not viable. 
 
 “The three departments have categorically stated that such a set up is not permitted. The town planning department has responded by saying that there can be no construction at 15 meter from either side of a nullah. The health department has stated that a vegetable market adjacent to a nullah is matter of health concern. The law department seems not to be aware of the work,” said the deputy mayor. 
 
 Lad also sought an explanation for displacing the vendors from sector 9, Vashi stating that they were illegally occupying the footpaths.
 
 “I am giving the administration 15 days to reconsider this work, else I will go on an indefinite hunger strike,” said Lad. 
 
 Civic commissioner N Ramaswami said that the work was happening as per due process.
 
 A fund of Rs 1 crore has been sanctioned by the collector to construct the market. Amenities to be provided are platforms for vendors, compound wall and bathrooms. Mhatre termed the objection as an unnecessary political stunt to stall rehabilitation of vendors. 
 
 “The vendors are conducting business for the past one year at the same spot but the concern for their health is being felt only now. It is only now when I want to properly rehabilitate them so that even customers get good quality vegetables that the objections are being raised. The 200 vegetable vendors have contributed Rs 3,000 only to construct a temporary rain shed. The said nullah has been covered so where is the question of any health issues,” questioned Mhatre. 
 
 Mhatre added, The  , for personal benefits, is bound to lead to trouble. I have informed the local police of a possibility of law and order issue as now vegetable vendors have stated of opposing the hunger strike by setting themselves in fire. These vendors were facing a tough time while doing their business and were looking forward to having a proper market.”
 
 
