MUMBAI:   vice-chancellor   is on his way out after he expressed, on Monday , his inability to declare   by the July 31deadline set by governor and chancellor of the varsity  .

 If a senior BJP cabinet member is to be believed, when Deshmukh, in a meeting with the governor, told the latter that it would not be possible to declare all the results by July 31, it was felt it was high time Raj Bhavan secured his resignation in the “larger interest“ of the once prestigious university .
 
 “We expect Deshmukh will quit on his own immediately after the results of all the exams are declared. If he does not, he will be asked to step down to restore the university's credibility . We cannot allow the university , and particularly the VC, to ruin the careers of students,“ the BJP minister said. The VC's term is normally five years. Deshmukh (52) has completed two years.
 
 Alarmed by the varsity's failure to declare results of over 400 exams within the 45-day deadline set under the Maharash tra Public Universities Act, Vidyasagar Rao had on July 4 reviewed its performance in the presence of additional chief secretary (higher and technical education) S J Kunte and directed Deshmukh to adhere to the deadline he had set.
 
 At the review meeting on Monday , the governor was reportedly upset over what he saw as the varsity's dismal performance and lack of supervision at all levels.
 
 “In a presentation we made before the chancellor on the status of assessment, we mentioned we may require five to six more days in August to announce commerce and law results. But the governor has asked us to complete all assessment work by July 31,“ said registrar M A Khan. The university may need to declare non-in structional days up to July 31in these two faculties if assessment of all papers is not completed by July 27, said registrar M A Khan.
 
 Observing that any further delay in declaring results would affect the future of students, the governor asked the VC to expedite assessment work further to ensure all results were out by July 31.
 
 “The governor asked the vice-chancellor to motivate teachers to achieve the timely declara tion of results,“ said a statement issued by Raj Bhavan. He even appreciated the efforts of the teachers working hard to declare the results before the scheduled date, the statement said.
 
  leader   also met the governor and sought an inquiry into why online assessment was implemented in the first place and whether a fair tendering process was followed.
 
 He even raised questions on whether the results will be out by July 31, if marksheets would be given on time, and if students would have enough time to apply for revaluation.
 
