BHUBANESWAR: The day after making a roaring start to their campaign in the 22nd   here, the Indian contingent faced major embarrassments on Friday.

 The Day II of the meet began on a sour note as the Indian men's 4x100m relay team was disqualified in spite of finishing as the fastest in the second heat of the morning session on Friday. The team was disqualified after one member of the quartet crossed his lane during the exchange of baton in the final leg.
 
 It was quite an anti-climax after a packed Kalinga stadium cheered Amiya Kumar Mallick who kept his Korean counterpart at bay in the last leg to win the heat in photo-finish. But technical staff were seen rushing towards Amiya after that and within minutes the stadium slumped into disappointment when they came to know that the Indian team had been disqualified.
 
 Running in lane 3, Indian sprinters maintained good pace in the first and second legs but it was a faulty exchange of baton between  , who ran the third leg and Mallick which cost them dearly. The duo fumbled the baton exchange and by the time Amiya had baton in his hand, he was already out of the exchange zone.
 
 The Korean team was declared winners in 40.18 seconds.
 
 Although the quartet of  , VK Elakkiya Dasan, Debnath and Mallick were not the favourites in the event, India would have hoped for a podium finish here.
 
 There was a bigger embarrassment in store for the hosts who were forced to field only one contestant in the men's decathlon event after   (AFI) had to withdraw their top athlete   from the event after he tested positive for a performance enhancing drug.
 
 In Jagtar's absence Abhishek Shetty is the lone Indian representative in the decathlon event which go under way on Thursday.
 
 A' sample, collected during the Federation Cup National Championships in Patiala last month by the   (Nada), tested positive for meldonium and the 24-year-old from Rajasthan has been put under provisional suspension, pending a hearing.
 
 Jagtar, who won the decathlon gold in the Federation Cup with 6888 points, can be banned for a maximum period of four years which is the norm for first-time dope offenders if the confirmatory 'B' sample also tests positive.
 
 There's question mark over javelin thrower   Kang too, who tested positive for recreational drug marijuana recently. But he has not been handed a provisional suspension as marijuana is a specified substance under the   (Wada) code.
 
 
