MUMBAI: With   offering just 60 of the 227 BMC seats to   on Saturday, prospects of a saffron alliance for the February 21 Mumbai civic elections looked grim. BJP is livid as the Sena offer is five less than BJP's share of 65 in the 2012 polls. The BJP is sticking to its demand for 114 seats.

 After an infructuous third round of negotiations, the parties decided to refer the matter to CM   and Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. Seat-sharing talks on Saturday began on a tame note as the parties exchanged lists of seats. As Sena wouldn't budge from its offer, BJP decided to suspend talks, it is learnt. We've come round to the view that it wo uldn't be proper to play the numbers game. Our top leaders will take a call on the next round of talks,“ said Mumbai BJP chief Ashish Shelar. “The next round (of negotiations) will begin after we get a go-ahead from our leaders,“ said Anil Desai, Sena MP. Much will now depend on what move Uddhav, who had set Saturday as the deadline for talks, plays on the alliance issue. He knows well that should talks fail, BJP will blame Matoshree for adopting a tough stance.
 
 Uddhav may want to turn adversity into opportunity by telling Shiv Sainiks it is the Sena which has walked out on BJP to safeguard the party's -and Balasaheb Thackeray's--“honour“. Sources in the Sena said Uddhav may make a major announcement at a party conclave on Monday , the 90th birth anniversary of Balasaheb Thackeray for which Sena has planned a show of strength in the city.
 
 The fourth round of talks, even if held at the behest of Fadnavis, is not likely to yield any result as Uddhav is deeply suspicious of BJP, said a Sena functionary. “BJP is all set to cut our party to size in Mumbai. They know very well our strength stems from Mumbai,“ he added.
 
 On Saturday , the body language of BJP's Shelar and Sena's Desai, who were speaking informally to mediapersons at the Rangsharada hotel in Bandra where the talks were held, reflected the cold vibes between the allies. BJP ministers Vinod Tawde and Prakash Mehta, and Sena's Anil Parab and   also participated in the discussions.
 
 The city BJP is of the view that Sena has deliberately whittled down BJP's share of seats in an attempt to derail alliance talks. “Sena isn't willing to acknowledge the reality that BJP made rapid strides. We have 15 MLAs in Mumbai, while the Sena tally is 14,“ said a BJP functionary.
 
