MUMBAI: Nearly six months after their revival by the municipal body, clean-up marshals have collected nearly Rs 5 crore in fines from over two lakh citizens caught littering or spitting in public places. But activists claim that despite the huge fine collection from   between July and December 2016, the city does not look clean.

 A report of the   scheme available with TOI shows that between July and December 2016, clean-up marshals collected Rs 4.82 crore in fines of which the highest amount—Rs 22.89 lakh—was recovered from over 10,000 offenders in R-Central ward, which covers Borivli, Gorai and Magathane. In A ward, which covers Colaba, Cuffe Parade and Fort, the total fine recovered from 8,190 offenders was Rs 16.88 lakh during the same period. 
 
 Deputy municipal commissioner  , who is in charge of solid waste management, said littering was the most common offence. “We asked the marshals to penalize only when appropriate. Citizens have also reciprocated well to the scheme,” he said. Balamwar admitted that the scheme had its share of controversies. “Whenever we got complaints of clean-up marshals not doing their job properly, we took action by issuing a showcause notice to the agency concerned.”
 
 Since July 1, when   relaunched the scheme, over 300 clean-up marshals have been patrolling select wards, including K-East, which comprises Andheri, Jogeshwari and Vile Parle; H-West, which covers Bandra, Khar and Santacruz; R-Central and A ward.
 
 But citizens are not convinced about the scheme. 
 
 Dadar resident Ashok Ravat said he has not seen any significant difference in the city’s cleanliness quotient, despite the action. “It could be because the clean-up marshals have not been given any target pertaining to ensure cleanliness of the locality they are stationed at,” he said. “Often these marshals are found taking hafta (protection money) from hawkers or penalizing citizens inappropriately. They use a part of the hafta collected from hawkers to make a receipt and keep the rest of the money for themselves. The BMC needs to use municipal workers for such a scheme or else it is bound to be a failure.” 
 
  But trustee of H-West Federation   said, “The scheme does have its misgivings, but it does not mean that it’s totally a bad one. It has proved to be effective in its own way. I have, in fact, checked the receipt books of the marshals and found that they were penalizing citizens appropriately.” 
 
 
