HYDERABAD: Known for its IIT coaching centres, Hyderabad is slowly turning into a hub for   ( ) coaching, with many institutes setting up shop of late.

 The city saw a 57% increase in registrations for UPSC exam from 2013 to 2016. In the same period, 64% more candidates from the city cleared the test. With more coaching centres, there is a growing influx of students into the city for preparations. While Delhi remains the top choice, Hyderabad has inched its way up, thanks partly to its affordable cost of living.
 
 In keeping with the trend, new coaching institutions are vying for a share of the pie. One such is Topper's Academy, started by a group of former IAS officers. Chaired by Rachel Chatterjee, former special chief secretary of  , the academy's board of directors includes former chief secretary of Telangana, former home secretary and former commissioner of technical education of undivided AP .
 
 According to the management, the academy was established to check the migration of quality candidates to coaching centres in Delhi. “We observed this trend for a few years. We also noticed that they mostly preferred three subjects -anthropology, Telugu literature and geography -that are considered to be easy options,“ Raghuramaiah, managing director of the academy told TOI.
 
 Other institutes that opened last year were MS IAS Academy , which started in December, and the IAS wing of Sri Chaitanya Educational Institutions Pvt Ltd, which is primarily into IIT coaching.
 
 Experts attribute the spurt in number of institutes to rising interest among candidates. “ Although the Indian economy is growing, there is lack of growth in the job market. Several candidates working in the corporate sector have realized the importance of public sector jobs. With Hyderabad being an IT hub, there are several techies who simultaneously prepare for civil service examinations,“ said K Srinivasa Rao, director and founder of KS Rao IAS Academy , which recently expanded its opera tions with a new branch in Gachibowli.
 
 “Earlier, students preferred going abroad for higher education and jobs.But now, many try for civil service considering the security and perks of a government job,“ said  , director of Brain Tree, an institute that has been running for 25 years.
 
 Even the state government has taken note of the increasing demand among students and launched a scheme under which it trains 100 students belonging to the minority community to crack the prelims. The students are selected through a test conducted by the   and are trained at Hyderabad Study Circle, RC Reddy Academies or Brain Tree. The state pays Rs 86,000 per student at Hyderabad Study Circle and Rs 1.25 lakh in the other two institutions.
 
