INDORE: With exams drawing near, students are going to any lengths, from caffeinated beverages to  , to stay awake and alert to study at night. They are however putting their health at risk by doing so and disturb routine diet, say doctors from Indore.

 “I prefer to study at night as there is no one around to disturb me. A cup of coffee and chocolate bars boost my energy levels and help me concentrate,” said  , a 3rd semester MBA student.
 
 Prateek Khatke, a student of Class XII, said that when we would study in a group with four other friends from his class, they consume tea and energy drinks to keep narcolepsy at bay.
 
 “Consuming too much caffeinated beverages for extended periods not only disturbs the natural sleep pattern but can lead to health issues like depression, anxiety and fatigue,” said Dr  .
 
 City-based doctors said that they have seen an increase in the number of students and their parents who approach them to get a prescription of concentration-increasing drugs.
 
 “There is a 10-fold increase in this trend. Surprisingly, they directly request us to write the prescription -only medicines like Methylphenidate — to help them increase their concentration,” Dr Srikanth   told TOI.
 
 He added these drugs are given to persons with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) or attention deficit disorder (ADD).
 
 “If no symptom of ADHD or ADD is found, I counsel students and their parents telling them not to take the drugs due to their side-effects like headache, dizziness, nausea, loss of appetite and excessive sweating. In the long run, one can suffer from weak bones, arrhythmia, high-blood pressure and cardiac issues,” Dr Reddy said.
 
 He added that everybody has his/her own capacity to perform. Some are academically good while some have other talents. One should not be misguided by advertisements of energy drinks, drugs and food supplements to increase their concentration level.
 
 Q&A from the expert – Dr Ashwin Jain
 
 
 
 A. It varies from person to person. One should adopt the old saying ‘early to bed and early to rise’ as studying early in the morning is said to be best time to remember things. One should sleep no less than 6 hours and not more than 8 hours a day.
 
 
 
 
 A. Loss of appetite, digestion problems, weight gain and slow metabolism. More protein intake, fruits, exercise or yoga or morning/evening walks will help release stress.
 
 
 
 
 A. Loss of sleep, daytime sleepiness, lack of concentration, difficulties in remembering and recalling things. In the long run it can lead to serious health issues like obesity and diabetes.
 
 
 
 
 A. Irregular and disturbed sleep results in lack of concentration and decreased memory power. A healthy lifestyle helps increase cerebral functions. One should stay away from alcohol and other addiction-inducing substances.
 
 
 
 A. Ideally, studying early in the morning helps in remembering things for a long period. One should avoid studying after 10pm as this gets in the way of one’s natural sleep cycle and lack of energy levels restrict one’s memory to imbibe information.
 
