SECUNDERABAD: Traffic congestion at   in Secunderabad Cantonment, through which nearly two lakh motorists pass daily, will soon ease with   ( ) taking up widening of the junction immediately.

 The junction has become a major traffic bottleneck after the partial closure of roads in   centre. Before the closure, SCB authorities were widening the Bowenpally junction.But now, the Trimulgherry junction is witnessing heavier flow of vehicles and traffic is often held up for half an hour during peak time.
 
 Though the road widening was proposed two years ago, the SCB is taking it up now after the manifold increase in traffic. The closure of AOC roads during night has only added to the traffic congestion.Motorists from Safilguda, Malkajgiri and surrounding areas are forced to go through Trimulgherry junction as the   has not come out with alternative roads. Moreover, the traffic police made several requests to the cantonment board seeking immediate widening of the junction. The President of India uses this road during the Southern Sojourn.Officials often use the Hakimpet airport for the President due to traffic congestion at Trimulgherry . The ongoing metro rail works have further compounded the problem at Jubilee bus station. SCB engineering officials conducted a detailed survey of the properties located on four sides of Trimulgherry junction as part of the road widening programme.
 
 “During our survey, we identified about 70 private, commercial properties which have encroached on the roads.As per SCB records, the width of the stretches covering four sides are between 80 and 100 feet. Property owners flouted the Cantonment Act, and as a re sult, the juntion has become narrow,“ SCB assistant engineer Balakrishna told TOI.
 
 Hundreds of buses of the   (TSRTC) ply through Trimulgherry junction, which serves as a connecting link between Hyderabad and five other Telangana dis tricts. The roads will be widened to 150 feet. The identified properties will be razed in a couple of weeks. For this, SCB does not need to serve eviction notices as all the properties are illegal, he said.
 
 The road widening works will be completed within three months.
 
