PUNE: State Election Commissioner J.S. Saharia on Monday categorically stated that the electronic voting machines (EVMs) cannot be tampered with and allegations made in this regard by political parties, except the   (BJP), are baseless.

 Ten corporations and 25 Zilla Parishad (ZP) had gone to the polls in two phases which saw BJP garner a good share of votes in both the corporations and ZP. Candidates from all other parties had alleged that the election was rigged and there was likely tampering of the EVM machines.
 
 “These machines are tamper free and have been kept under high security. There is no way that these machines can be tampered with. These are baseless allegations. After every election these complaints are usual but there has not been any case of tampering which has come to our notice in our recent polls,’’Saharia told TOI.
 
 Many candidates have even approached the HC and have demanded that the voter verified paper audit trail machines should have been used. In Pune, the protests have come from the Nationalist Congress party (NCP), Congress, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena ( MNS) and independent candidates. Candidates from the city have alleged that BJP sweeping 98 seats in the PMC was a result of alleged EVM tampering.
 
 Candidates who had raised their voices from Pune were MNS candidates Rupali Patil and Chandrakant Amrale as well independent candidate Santosh Nangare. The candidates have alleged miscalculation of votes and have planned to move the High Court apart from staging protests.
 
 The SEC said that these machines do not work on the Internet and so cannot be hacked and the machines are always kept under high security so nobody except the election officials can access them. From Mumbai too candidates had stated that they had noticed huge discrepancies in the number of votes polled and the number of votes eventually counted. Activist   said that with some discrepancies being noticed in counting the voter verified paper audit trail machines used in the recent Punjab assembly polls should be used.
 
 Election Commissioner J.S. Saharia told TOI that it was done on a pilot basis in Punjab and is yet to be implemented. Some election officials were quick to add that there were technical snags in those machines as well and the calculation was a logistical nightmare.
 
 Former municipal president of Chandrapur, Suresh Mahakalkar had demanded that the next corporation elections in the state should be held through ballot paper voting method and has forwarded his demand to the State Election Commissioner and Chief Election Commissioner.
 
