PATNA: St Michael’s Team A, Litera Valley School, Radiant International School and Loyola High School made it to the quarter-finals of 9th St Ignatius of Loyola Interschool Football Tournament hosted by St Michael’s High School (SMHS) on its campus on Thursday. The three-day tournament was inaugurated on Thursday by DIG (central range) Rajesh Kumar. Total 11 schools are participating in the tournament. 

 SMHS Team A beat Open Minds A Birla School 3-0 whereas Ishan International School defeated Radiant International School 2-1. Loyola High School won 1-0 against St Dominic Savio’s High School. Litera Valley got walkover over Don Bosco Academy.
 
 Rector Fr. Seraphim SJ, school principal Fr. Armstrong Edison SJ, headmistress Vishakha Sinha, vice-principal Fr. Prakash Anthony SJ, were present at the inaugural ceremony. The other teams which will play on the second day of the tournament include Delhi Public School, DAV BSEB, International School and SMHS Team B.
 
 Compartmental exams: Over 81,000 candidates appeared in the matriculation compartmental-cum-special examination on the first day on Thursday. The examination is conducted by Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) at 329 examination centres across the state. In first sitting, 80,710 students wrote English paper whereas 1,150 students appeared for science paper in the second sitting. In Patna district, over 11,000 candidates appeared at 16 examination centres. 
 
 BSEB chairman Anand Kishor inspected several examination centres and frisked students during the exam.
 
 Centre inaugurated: Industries department’s principal secretary S Siddharth inaugurated ‘Startup Incubation Centre and Business Innovation Lab’ at Chandragupt Institute of Management Patna (CIMP) here on Thursday. CIMP director Dr V Mukunda Das said the centre would provide physical infrastructure and support system necessary for business incubation activities such as networking with seed funders, angel investors and venture capitalists. “It will also provide a platform for knowledge creation and expert advisory,” said Das.
 
 Siddharth said Bihar government has taken various initiatives to promote start-ups in the state. He also said this centre would not only help entrepreneurs but also serve as a platform for venture needs. He also discussed various challenges faced by entrepreneurs to start their business and ways to overcome the hurdles. He emphasized the role of incubators as well as need for rural market outreach. Students even asked questions about the start-up plans and risks. 
 
 Patna University (PU) history department students Bhawna Singh and Arti Kumari received the V A Narain Memorial Awards for academic excellence at a function organised at Patna College seminar hall here on Thursday.
 
 National Institute of Technology Patna retired professor Santosh Kumar delivered the V A Narain memorial lecture on " Water- the elixir of life from past to present" and outlined the importance of water in our daily life. He said that at the present rate of consumption water is going to be scarce commodity soon. It is estimated that by the year 2025 India will become a water stressed nation when the per capita availability of water would decline to 1000 cubic metres per year, he said.
 
 PU vice-chancellor Ras Bihari Prasad Singh recalled the valuable contributions of Prof V A Narain in the all-round development of the university and gave away awards to the students.
 
 Magadh Mahila College former principal Mala Ghosh and PU history department former heads Bharti S Kumar, Prashant Dutt and Ran Vijoy Kumar also spoke on the occasion. A short film on " How the water came to Earth" was also screened.
 
 At the outset, PU history department head Amar Nath Singh welcomed the guests. PU hisoty teacher Daisy Banerjee conducted the programme and Pramodanand Das proposed the vote of thanks. .
 
 
