THISSUR: There appears to be not much progress in the investigation into the recent seizure of demonetised currencies in Thrissur and Kozhikode, though there are reports of joint   by Kerala police and   (NIA).

 The police had seized demonetised currencies valued at Rs 78.82 lakh from a car at Pudukkad here on May 8 and the directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) sleuths had seized currency notes worth Rs 1.2 crore from another car parked on the premises of a private hospital on the same day.
 
 In the third case, police had initially seized 77 fake currencies resembling the new Rs 500 notes from a couple after they tried to exchange the notes at a petrol pump at   in Idukki on the same day. Later, fake currencies to tune of Rs 4 lakh were seized from their flat in Kochi. This case is being jointly probed by the police and NIA.
 
 The seizure of the demonetised currencies at Pudukkad was during a clash between two alleged hawala transaction gangs, who were chasing each other in cars. The police had then nabbed six persons in the car in which the demonetised currencies were being brought.
 
 However, the members of the one of the gangs, who had tried to intercept the car of the other gang, could not be traced. The latter were released on bail the next day.
 
 Cops have already arrested two persons from Kerala and two from Tamil Nadu in the Vandiperiyar case.
 
 According to enforcement directorate (ED) officials, the involvement of bank officials could not be ruled out. “As per reports several banks are yet to reconcile the total transactions related to demonetised currencies. The connivances of the RBI officials is possible if such large-scale transactions are happening even after seven months of demonetization. As per law, NRIs can bring in only a maximum of Rs 25,000 in old currencies now, and they have to get a declaration from the customs officials at the airport. Also, they could exchange the old currencies only at five select offices of the RBI in the country,’’ the ED official pointed out.
 
 DRI and ED officials are of the view that they have only limited jurisdiction in the probe. The state police officers feel that only a national-level agency could probe such cases.
 
 The investigating agencies have identified that fake currencies reach the country from outside, and earlier the printing was done mainly in Pakistan, but now the operation has been shifted to Bangladesh.
 
