BENGALURU: A week after Central Crime Branch raided, and closed down 16   across Minerva Circle, Bull Temple Road and adjoining areas,   (BBMP) council members alleged that many of these outlets have reopened, and serving  . However, the   does not issue trade licence to hookah bars.

 Presenting a united front, BBMP   quizzed civic agency officials as to who had granted permission to reopen these establishments that had been shut and sealed. “Members of resident welfare associations of various areas expressed concerns about these outlets serving underage individuals,” said DJ Halli’s Congress corporator, R Sampath Raj. The councillors were firm in seeking clocure of all hookah bars across the city. 
 
 BBMP joint commissioner (health and solid waste management) Sarfaraz Khan categorically stated that running hookah bars was illegal. “But it can be clubbed with tobacco. These bars have been fined amounts ranging from Rs 1 to Rs 2 lakh. A policy decision that addresses the issue specifically will help tackle the menace,” he added.
 
 BBMP joint commissioner (east zone) Yatish Kumar pointed out that there were 400 hookah bars in the city. “We have collected Rs 16.5 lakh in fines from raids. We have not given permission to these establishments to reopen, and will investigate how this has come about,” he added.
 
 Corporators from Chandra Layout near Nagarbhavi in west Bengaluru said that there were cases of people availing of licence to open coffee shops, but running hookah bars in their place.
 
 BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad admitted to procedural lapses in bringing about the closure of all hookah bars. “We should have first issued notice to these outlets, and given the owners two to four days to respond to the same. If they failed to respond, we could have issued a final notice and subsequently shut them down. However, there can be no excuse for serving underage patrons,” he said.
 
 Hoysalanagar corporator and chairman of BBMP’s public health committee, S Anand said that they could not possibly shut all 400 establishments at once. “But we can start inspecting them, and issue them notices in a phased manner,” he added.
 
