ROHTAK: Two days after Haryana government accepted their demands, All India   Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) national president   on Tuesday appealed to the Jats sitting on dharna at   in Rohtak to leave the venue and prepare for rabi harvesting season.

 Malik, who reached Jassia on Tuesday, said as the state government had accepted their demands, the size of ongoing dharnas could be scaled and only key members of AIJASS would remain at the protest sites. 
 
 Members of the Jat community, including women, had started reaching Jassia since early morning, much before Malik’s arrival. As a steady stream of Jats riding tractor trailers headed for Jassia, they jammed a section of the National Highway-71A between Rohtak and Panipat. Meanwhile, the Rohtak administration also withdrew police and paramilitary from the spot. 
 
 Addressing the gathering, Malik said the Jat community had been struggling for reservation for the last 11 years. After a struggle of 21 days in 2014, the reservation was granted to them but it was pending in the court, he said.
 
 Revealing what transpired between him and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Malik said during their meeting on March 19, there was an agreement on five demands, including compensation to those injured in the violence during the Jat agitation in February 2016, in next 15 days and a permanent job to the next of kin who died. 
 
 He, however, added that if the government failed to honour the commitment, then the Jats are prepared to re-launch the agitation and would reach Delhi within an hour. He said a meeting was called in Jind on March 26, to deliberate on ending the ongoing dharnas. 
 
 “For now, the ongoing dharnas would either be lifted or their size would be reduced,” he said and urged the people to get back to the fields.
 
 Meanwhile, Rahul Dadu, chief of Jat Jagriti Sena (JJS), who has been on hunger strike for the last 50 days, has refused to end the dharna. Questioning Malik’s rationale behind ending the dharna, he said none of their demands had been fulfilled. He said Malik’s eagerness to end the dharnas had raised questions in the minds of the community members.
 
