MUMBAI: The absence of a clear majority for either the BJP or the   in the   means largescale horsetrading is on cards for the mayoral election to be held in the first week of March.

 Sena president Uddhav Thackeray has vowed the new Mayor will be from his party, which got the maximum seats at 84. Mumbai BJP president Ashish Shelar, whose party tallied 82 seats, too has staked claim to the post. With 114 votes needed for a win, all will depend on the role of the Congress (31), NCP (9), MNS (7) and others (14). That is, if the former saffron allies do not decide to join hands again.
 
 BJP minister Vinod Tawde, instrumental in securing the highest number of seats for his party in the western suburbs, said: “Our core committee will meet in a day or two to take a decision on mayoral election. I feel, in view of the impressive performance of BJP, we will contest the election and win." Since four independents have extended support, it should not be difficult for the BJP, a senior leader said. “We expect the MNS and NCP to support us, while Congress, SP and MIM will abstain,“ he added.
 
 NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said under no circumstances will the NCP support the BJP or Sena. “In fact, NCP president   has spoken to state Congress president Ashok Chavan over a post-poll alliance between the Congress and the NCP." Outgoing Mumbai Congress chief   said it was for the Congress high command to take a call on the mayoral poll.
 
 Malik felt the Sena and BJP will come together to share power in BMC again. “I do not think there will be horse-trading for Mayor's post. Shiv Sena will bargain for the Mayor's post and in return, offer Standing Committee chairman's post to BJP," he said. The statutory committees like the Standing Committee have the real power in the BMC and will be staffed by party nominees according to proportional representation, meaning the parties with the most seats will get the most posts. It will happen 15 days after the mayoral poll.
 
 The outgoing Mayor and Municipal Commissioner Ajoy Mehta will finalize the mayoral poll on February 28, the day a final notification for new councillors will be published on the basis of the State Election Commission report.The new mayor and deputy mayor will have to be elected before March 8. Nomination papers for both the posts will be submitted on the day the poll is announced. “For the Mayor's election, the polling is by rising of hands," a senior bureaucrat explained.
 
