NAGPUR: A day after an   student died a tragic death after meeting with an accident,   top brass, including its director Professor Ashish Nanda rushed to its premises at VNIT on Monday to console the students and take stock of the situation. He was accompanied by Prof Goutam Dutta, chief administrative officer of IIM-A and IIM-N Commander Manoj Bhatt and communication manager Deepak Bhatt.

 Bhatt told TOI that students were and staff and other faculty members were upset over the incident. “What happened at the institute was most unfortunate, but the students need to be mentally strong and overcome it. He termed it as bad experience and students should move ahead. He advised them to focus on studies and try to excel.”
 
 Nanda also interacted with the staff members and praised their efforts, particularly of IIM-N project coordinator Lt Col (Retd) Makarand Alur, for providing timely help to the injured students and also parents of Durgesh, whose death has shocked the entire IIM-N campus.
 
 The popular director interacted with Durgesh’s parents later and met with injured students at Meditrina Hospital in Ramdaspeth where they are admitted currently. Durgesh’s parents took his body to his native place in Delhi on Monday. Bhatt informed that the students would be discharged from the hospital by Tuesday.
 
 The students, on their part, paid tribute to the deceased on IIM Nagpur’s Facebook page mentioning that he had a creative mind and cheerful heart and was active member of IIM-N’s Media Connect Club. They also shared his induction video on the page where he introduced himself.
 
 “Since the numbers of students are limited to 55, all of them got very close, as they remain in each other’s company round the clock. It was a close friendship between all of us and Durgesh’s loss is a big shock,” they said.
 
 They added that Professor Nanda and others did a right thing by paying a visit to campus and consoling the students. “His pep talk lifted our spirits and should help us to shift focus on the studies,” the students said. 
 
 
