KOLKATA: On the eve of IMA’s meeting with Governor Keshari Nath Tripathi at   on Saturday afternoon, chief minister   sought to allay doctors’ fears about being hounded by the controversial Clinical Establishment (Registration, Regulation and Transparency) Act 2017 passed on Thursday. Speaking at Nabanna on Friday, Mamata said there was just a handful of doctors involved in wrong-doing, while the vast majority was clean and honest.

 “Doctors need not worry since the provisions of the act are not new. They have been in existence for a long time and doctors have always been liable to be prosecuted by the  ,” said Mamata. Asked if the stringent provisions of the new law will make the private healthcare system collapse, Mamata pointed out that most were functioning without any hitch. 
 
 Meanwhile, the IMA team from Delhi will be joined by officials of the state IMA that has supported the bill. While the latter declared that it will refrain from speaking against the new act, the IMA headquarters said it may take a legal recourse if the talks with the governor holds out no hope.
 
  “Now that the bill is passed, it can’t be reversed. But we will still be raising a few issues about the bill. The idea is to point out the clauses that go blatantly against the doctors. Doctors are being put in the line of the fire which will not help the health system,” said K K Aggarwal, national president of IMA who will be leading the delegation on Saturday.
 
 Even though Aggarwal said that his team will be accompanied by state IMA secretary Shantanu Sen, the latter said his participation in the meeting with the governor was not yet decided. “We have our full support for the new act and believe that it will serve the interests of patients. So, there is no question of speaking against it. Since protocol demands that we meet the national president, I shall be there at the airport to receive them. But we might not join the delegation to Raj Bhavan,” said Sen.
 
 State IMA members, however, were still pinning their hopes on the meeting with the governor. They plan to raise at least three contentious points of the act, said S K Dubey, president of IMA south Kolkata unit. “First, doctors’ chambers should be left out of the act’s purview since they can’t have the infrastructure laid down for clinical establishments. This will hit rural healthcare . Secondly, the health regulatory commission that has been formed should not be allowed to arbitrate cases of medical negligence,” said Dubey.
 
 The CM, on the other hand, said: “I have been elected by the people and will strive to protect their interests. Why is the IMA against the bill? They can go to court if they want. It seems they are not with the people.” 
 
 
