GURUGRAM: The   (AIJASS) has deferred its Delhi agitation for 15 days, but the Haryana government doesn’t want to take any chances and has deployed more than 12,000 cops belonging to the   and paramilitary forces on the four   — NH1 (Delhi-Sonepat), NH2 (Delhi-Faridabad), NH8 (Delhi-Gurgaon) and NH10 (Delhi-Bahadurgarh/Rohtak) — that connect Haryana with the national capital.

 Sources said prohibitory orders and restrictions will remain in force in the city as the Jat body has decided to continue its protests across the state. In Gurgaon, police have drawn a 24-point security plan that was devised to maintain law and order on the major routes to Delhi.
 
 While more than 5,000 paramilitary troopers have been deployed on NH2 and NH8, on Delhi’s borders with Faridabad and Gurgaon respectively, as many as 7,000 cops from the Haryana Police are keeping a tight vigil on NH1 and NH10 to guard Sonepat and Bahadurgah borders. Police have assured that the inter-state movement for general public will not be affected though they will continue to check commuters strictly.
 
 Cops said the ban on tractor-trolleys’ entry into the national capital would continue. The tractor-trolleys will not be allowed on any of the highways. The police have barricaded around 500 metres of service lanes on both sides of highways to prevent Jat agitators or tractors from entering the main carriageways.
 
 “We have deployed forces at every entry point to Delhi from Haryana, including small roads. The march to Delhi has been scrapped, but the symbolic sit-ins will continue. Security measures will be implemented along the highways as part of the precautionary measures,” said Sibash Kabiraj, inspector general of police (highways).
 
 Moreover, special officers from the intelligence department have been posted to keep the police updated about movements of protesters.
 
 In Gurgaon, police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar has ordered security forces to be on alert till any further instructions are given.
 
 On Saturday, prohibitory orders were imposed in Gurgaon under Section 144 of CrPC till May 15. It has not been revoked yet. As planned, policemen with anti-riot equipment will remain stationed on all three Delhi-Gurgaon routes, including Sirhaul border, Aya Nagar and Kapashera, also. Police will register FIR against those who block roads and will arrest them under relevant sections. Assistant police commissioners and station house officers will patrol the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway to avert violence.
 
 “We have made ample security arrangements as per the intelligence reports and those will not be revoked at least for now. The agitators will have to leave their dharna sites. Till then security arrangements in the city are intact. We assure that normal life will not be disrupted,” said Khirwar.
 
