Working with (AR)   sir was on my to-do list, and who doesn’t want a film opposite  ?” beams   as we catch up for a chat on her upcoming release,  . When the actress was offered the film, she knew it was an opportunity that she ought to grab with both hands. “I didn’t even care to read the script or sit for narrations because I was getting to work with two of the most talented people in the industry,” she gushes, adding, “At times, the length of a role or screen time is secondary; what truly matters is the experience of working with the best.” All charged up on the eve of the spy thriller’s release, Rakul tells us what to expect from her role, challenges of doing a bilingual film and equation with Mahesh. Excerpts: 

 
 
 Murugadoss sir is one of finest directors we have and Mahesh is a fantastic actor. Plus, it’s a Telugu-Tamil bilingual. What more could you ask for? The film is made on an international scale with a great deal of hard work, passion and heart put into it. 
 
 
 It is a never seen or done before role. You’ll see me in a non-glam avatar — kurtis, spectacles and frizzy hair… like a complete jhalli. My character,  , is designed in such a way that her innocence and silliness will create situational comedy. 
 
 
 (Laughs) I used the term ‘bheja fry’ because it was a task to shoot in Telugu and Tamil simultaneously. Your body language is attuned to the language you speak, so when you switch to another tongue, it’s challenging. So, after every shot, we had switch from Telugu to Tamil and back. My bheja was fried, yes, but it was super fun too. Mahesh had even longer dialogues and had to dub in Tamil too!
 
 
 Forget acting, the toughest part was dancing! You can learn the dialogues in a particular language, but when it comes to dancing, the lyrics change, so automatically the steps change too. For example, you do a certain step for kallu, which means eyes in Telugu, but in Tamil, kallu means smile. So, the expressions had to change depending on the language you are shooting for.
 
 
 I’m not saying this just because everyone else does, but he’s truly a grounded, dedicated person with no hang ups. You call him for a 7 am shoot, he’s there, or ask him for 100 takes, he’ll do it. He’s a family man who balances everything in life so well. I respect people like him. 
 
