PUNE: Pandit   and Ustad   proved that their artistry and chemistry have retained the charm of pure gold in the golden jubilee year of their togetherness.

 Tjhe 79-year-old Sharma, the last word on  , and tabla wizard Zakir Hussain (66) made the audience richer with a two-hour performance of poise, pedigree and panache at   on Saturday evening.
 
 The full-house braved bad weather, delay due to traffic and arguments over the seats only to get immersed in raags Bhoop and Mishra Shivranjani sprinkled with tremendous interplay between the two artistes.
 
 From the major notes of raag Bhoop, Sharma took the listeners to a different world of pathos in raag Mishra Shivranjani where the santoor glided in both gandhaars (flat and normal variants of ‘ga’), shuddh dhaivat (normal ‘dha’) and komal nishad (flat ‘ni’).
 
 On the backdrop of raag Bhoop where all the flat notes are used (Sa, Re, Ga Pa, Dha; omitting ‘Ma’ and ‘Ni’), the use of Komal Gandhaar (flat ‘Ga’) in Mishra Shivranjani was particularly  .
 
 The concert began about 45 minutes after than the scheduled start. But Sharma soon filled the pandal with a traditional exploration of raag Bhoop (Alaap followed by Jod) for half-an-hour. Zakir’s tabla made the entry at this stage with richness of left drum and perfect landing on the sum (first stressed beat of the rhythm cycle) on the Shuddh Gandhaar (normal ‘Ga’).
 
 Zakir’s ability to display his craft without hurting the main artiste and his wont for landing on the sum in varied ways was evident in this phase.
 
 Sharma ended raag Bhoop with a composition in Ek Taal (12 beats) based on a tarana.
 
 If the last part of raag Bhoop was a bit robust, the initial part of Mishra Shivaranjani was filled with filigree and great emotive value.
 
 The concert ended with a short and sweet interplay, muted jhala (where Sharma used left hand to play closed notes and Zakir tried to synchronize that on the left drum) and a crescendo in chakradhaar (thrice repetition of a long phrase).
 
 What stood out was Zakir’s chameleon-like performance in which he shifted effortlessly from a mere accompanist to a show-stopper. His ability to interchange between two tempos at the same time and use of soft hands was simply breathtaking.
 
 Despite some predictability in their partnership, Sharma and Zakir’s association in its 50th year gave some refreshing moments.
 
