GURUGRAM: The district town planner ( ) on Wednesday recommended police action against the builder of   township in Sector 54 for failing to submit the buyer-builder agreements to the town and country planning department, despite repeated reminders, and not obtaining the final completion certificate from it.

 “In this case, allottees have contended that the agreement executed with all the allottees are (is) not having same clauses but the builder is not responding to any of the query raised by them. Suncity Projects Pvt. Ltd. has shown resistance in submitting the documents, which shows that they are not intending to resolve the matter even within the legal framework,” the DTP wrote to the senior town planner.
 
 “Though no intervention can be made within clauses of agreement, it is the moral responsibility of the coloniser to provide the documents as sought by the government agency and it would be appropriate that district administration/ police administration shall take immediate action as per act/rules,” the letter says. 
 
 When contacted, DTP   told TOI, “Several complaints have been filed against the developer. We have given verbal as well as written directions many a time to submit copies of builder-buyer agreements. However, the builder has failed to do so. We are, therefore, recommending intervention of the district administration or the police. If the developer is found to be at fault, police will register an FIR.”
 
 A spokesperson for the developer said, “All the deeds of apartments are already with the department. However, we never got any fresh requests to produce agreements again.” 
 
 Suncity has over 1,300 plots and 1,500 families are residing there. According to the residents, the issue was raised after the builder was allegedly charging illegal common area maintenance (CAM) charges. 
 
 “The builder gave different builder-buyer agreement to allottees. It came to light when we produced the agreement showing that CAM charges are illegal as per the agreement. We then requested the builder to produce the list of allottees, allotment letter and agreement made with the allottees. It is a big scam. The builder made buyers sign different agreements and is now charging them illegally,” said VMK Singh, general secretary of Suncity RWA. 
 
 
