The story of Billy and Jean is testimony to how badly street dogs are treated in Kerala. Billy and Jean, along with two other street dog puppies were put into the enclosure of a python situated in a mini zoo in a college campus in Thrissur. The reason? Someone wanted to see pythons eating! Unfortunately by the time someone kind hearted arrived at the scene, the python had swallowed two puppies already. The remaining two puppies were rescued and handed over to Thrissur-based animal activist Sally Kannan, who put them up for adoption. It was then that Ranjini Haridas, also into animal rescue, informed Sally that Jubin Sunny from Kochi was looking to adopt a male pup.

 However, Jubin had no clue where the pups were rescued from and how. “It didn’t matter really, all I said was that I wanted a male pup. The two puppies were street dog pups, one male and one female. I didn’t know whether I wanted street dog pups and that too two of them, but once I saw them, I fell in love with them. Billy had just opened his eyes, and whenever he opened them he would start crying for Jean who was already walking about. My mom saw it and said, ‘Poor thing let’s take them both.”
 And that’s how Jubin’s incredible journey with Billy and Jean started. “I wanted to name them something related to music, and that’s how I ended up with Billy and Jean.” Ask him how street dog puppies are as pets and he says, “They’re awesome! We had a dog for 16 years, a cross between a Lhasa Apso and a terrier. But compared to him, these two guys are a lot more intelligent! They’re brilliantly trained. They won’t touch a treat until I say yes. The only problem I have from Billy is that he jumps up at people’s faces to lick them! It’s a myth that street dogs can’t be trained.”
 
 And it’s a lot of fun with the duo in the house, he says. “Billy loves tearing up coconuts while Jean loves the water.”
 Ask him what he wants to tell people who are against stray dogs and he says, “People who speak against stray dogs haven’t spent time with them obviously. They’re the kind of people who sees a kid petting a street dog and says it’s dangerous. Not all stray dogs are rabid. Culling is horrible. The only sure shot way of controlling the numbers is by neutering them, new dogs will occupy the old territory. All they need is human affection.” 
 
