LUCKNOW: A man pretending to be the public relations officer (PRO) of minister   was arrested for duping a dozen people of crores by promising them government contracts. As investigations began, Mehrotra also said he had been getting complaints of misuse of his name by Abhishek.

 Three four-wheelers including an SUV with a red beacon, a licensed revolver, fake government stamps and forged papers were recovered from Abhishek Nigam aka Neetu Yadav of Bazarkhala. 
 
 Police said Abhishek was the PRO of SP leader Ravidas Mehrotra but left him in 2012 after he was elected MLA. When Mehrotra was made minister last year, Abhishek started a gang to dupe people claiming that he was Mehrotra’s PA. 
 
 However, on Thursday, Manoj Kumar, a native of Jharkhand, lodged a complaint against Abhishek saying he had taken Rs 24 lakh from him for a contract worth Rs 25 crore in the health department. Manoj realised he was duped when he went to the health department with contract papers but officials told him that they were fake. 
 
 According to SSP Manzil Saini, Abhishek claimed to be close Mehrotra but when police approached the minister, he said his association had ended with Abhishek in 2012.
 
 In another case, police said, Abhishek allegedly took Rs 40 lakh from contractor Azhar for electrification work worth Rs 100 crore in a village. Azhar said Abhishek’s men once took him to the CM’s secretariat too. “I filmed the visit in my mobile,” he claimed.
 
 Abhishek even tricked the SSP to get police security guard for his father. The SSP said she approved security guard recently after receiving a letter of recommendation from a senior bureaucrat. Saini, however, refused to divulge the name saying further probe is underway. 
 
 how he conned people 
 
 Abhishek operated under the name ‘Neetu Yadav’ and claimed he had connections in the ruling party. He also had private security guards. 
 
 He formed a gang consisting of four persons including his own sister who used to influence businessmen and contractors by calling them in five-star hotels for meetings 
 
 The gang used to take ‘customers’ for trips in red-beaconed SUVs to buildings housing government offices
 
 
