HYDERABAD: After more than eight decades, the Telangana government embarked on a massive programme to sanitise land records, a programme that none of the previous governments dared to take up. The comprehensive land survey and settlement project is all set to be launched on September 15 with the state government preparing to deploy more than 10,000 government employees on this work for more than 100 days.The last time a land survey of this magnitude was taken up was during the  's rule in 1932-36. Since then, successive governemnts have only made attempts to digitise `infested records.' The land survey is being taken up in the backdrop of the fact that more than 60 percent of litigations in courts is related to land records.

 Since the land records are not maintained properly, there are disputes and litigation which appears to have resulted in widespread corruption in the registration and land administration department. The recent Miyapur land scam has opened the eyes of the   government which has decided not to allow the malpractice to continue anymore.
 
 
 :Of the total extent of 2.76 crore acres of land, more than 1.2 crore acres of land is in rural areas and under cultivation.The land survey first aims to clean the rural records. So, in the first phase of the survey, 1.2 crore acre land is to be surveyed.
 
 Why the land survey: TRS government has announced an innovative scheme of financing the farmer, which is providing Rs 4000 per acre per crop. On the whole, the farmer is eligible to claim finance for two crops in a year. Thus, the state government has to provide Rs 8000 per acre per farmer. The total number of farmers as per government records is over 80 lakh and providing all of them Rs 8000 financial assistance will be a herculean task. Therefore, the survey aims to identify genuine farmers so that only they can benefit from the scheme. Earlier too, soon after coming to power, CM KCR had carried out the `Comprehensive Household Survey' aimed at identifying the genuine beneficiaries of  .
 
 The procedure In 10875 villages in the state, the survey will be done with village taken up as an unit. Officials will stay put in the villages and with the cooperation of farmers conduct the survey and update the records online. New passbooks will be given after the rectification of the records. To execute the programme, the state has been divided into 1100 units and 3,600 groups with each consisting of a revenue and agriculture officer along with the village farmers' association representative. They will tour the village and scrutiny the records and set right the anomalies. The local MLA, MLC and MP and other public representatives will also be associated with the program. It was decided to appoint 1000 IT professional exclusively for this program who will update the land records and upload to Webland, the state govern ment's digital land bank.The state government is planning to complete the process by December end by which time, the computerization and online registration process will also get completed.
 
 
 
 According to sources, officials have identified three types of existing survey systems ­ Surface method, Satellite system and   technology. The Survey and Settlement department has opted for the LiDAR technology to conduct the land survey to ensure an error-free record. Nearly Rs 500 crore would be needed to conduct the LiDAR technology based land survey. The revenue officials have studied methods adopted in Odisha, Gujarat and Bihar where partial survey of lands was carried out recently. They pointed out that the Gujarat government had conducted surface-based resurvey of lands which was met with partial success.
 
 
