AHMEDABAD: Students were elated to begin the class X and class XII   comfortably, as all three papers on the first day were easier than they expected. While class X students sat for their exam on first language (English/Gujarati), those of class XII general stream appeared for Accounts paper and those of   took their  . 

 On the first day of the board exams, around six copy cases were registered across the state. These include one each in Sabarkantha and Surendranagar in class XII science stream, while one each for the Accounts paper in Junagadh, Surat, Morbi and Gir Somnath. Interestingly, no such copy cases were reported for class X at the state education board’s control room.
 
 According to data provided by state board officials, around 43 class 1 and class 2 officers were assigned across Ahmedabad’s centres for class 12 science stream students. These officials will remain through the exams of four main subjects. However, less than half of the total assigned officers remained present.
 
 Some of them opposed their assignments as they were not informed in advance of the respective centres where they were posted. These include principals of government colleges and primary schools. The matter was also represented before the DEO. Commenting on the issue, Navnit Mehta, DEO, said, “The matter is supposed to be handled by the collector office and therefore the same must be represented before Ahmedabad district collector.”
 
 Students were seen rejoicing after the exams as most papers were easy. The essay topics in Gujarati and English papers for class 10 students revolved around social issues, some of which included ‘Professional Teachers – the need of the country’; ‘Status of women in the society today’ and ‘Impact of junk food on one’s health’.
 
 The papers for Physics and Accounts were also easy. In fact, the Accounts paper comprised 48 marks worth of numericals which were directly taken from the textbook. Overall, the exams completed well in time, except one or two minor incidents. For instance, there was a 10-minute power cut at Pratibha School in Hirapura in Ahmedabad Rural.
 
