KOCHI: The   (KMRL) has appointed a land acquisition consultant for assessing land availability for the  . 

 KMRL said the consultant has been entrusted with the task of accessing the availability of land at various jetties in the project area. "They have verified the land available at various jetties and marked the boundaries," said KMRL spokesperson adding that based on information gathered a general consultant will prepare the details of land that will have to be acquired for the Water Metro project. The agency is yet to finalize a general consultant.
 
 According to the project plan released by the KMRL the Water Metro's major jetties are proposed at  , Kadamakkudy, Pizhala, Kothad, South Chittoor, Elamkunnapuzha, Mulavukadu Panch, Bolgatty North, High Court, Ernakulam, Vypeen, Fort Kochi, Mattancherry, Embarkation, Kumbalam, Thevara and Kakkanad.
 
 "During the earlier discussions held with the KMRL, the agency had hinted it will require at least 50 cents of land for developing the major jetties. This could even go up to one acre. For developing minor jetties at least 30 cents of land is required," said Salini Babu, Kadamakkudy panchayat president.
 
 However, the panchayat members also raised concern over the delay in implementing the project. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the project in July 2016. "Five months have passed since the inauguration of the project. But major developments have not taken place. Though the KMRL took the suggestions of local bodies regarding jetties and water transport connectivity, the local bodies have not been updated on the progress of the project," Sreejith Parakkadan, vice-president of the Kumbalam panchayat said.
 
 The Water Metro projects proposes to develop 38 jetties connecting 10 island communities, covering a 76km-route network. Out of the total jetties, 18 are proposed to be developed as major jetties or main boat hubs, while the remaining 20 jetties will be developed as minor jetties for water transit services. The Water Metro's boats will operate in 16 routes and it will have a fleet requirement of 78 boats. The total project cost is estimated at Rs747 crore, excluding Rs72 crore for land acquisition. German bank, KfW will give financial assistance to the extent of 85 million euros (approximately Rs 597 crore) as a long-term soft loan and the state government will contribute Rs 102 crore.
 
 In the first phase of the project, the KMRL intends to develop 16 jetties. As many as 43 boats are expected to be put in service along seven routes. Phase 1 is expected to become operational by 2017. The remaining jetties and routes will be developed in second phase, which is expected to be completed by 2019.
 
