Mysuru: The JDS will field Kalale Keshavamurthy in the Nanjangud by election, said state party president and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Sunday.

 Kumarswamy told a meeting of party workers convened to discuss party’s strategy for the bypoll that the party will not allow Keshavmurthy to quit.
 
 On his part Keshavmurthy, who had campaigned for Congress in the APMC polls last week, said that he will abide by the party’s decision. He said he will not quit the party but he has no money to contest the bypoll.
 
 This comes a day after district minister H C Mahadevappa’s supporters openly said that they would not campaign for Keshavamurthy if he contest the poll on Congress ticket. They also urged the minister to contest election or field his son Sunil Bose. A section of Congress leaders are wooing Keshavamurthy to crossover and contest the election on Congress ticket against former minister V Srinivas Prasad of BJP.
 
 Mahadevappa however ruled himself out of the race and said the party will decide on the cadidate for the bypoll. 
 
 During the JDS meeting, Keshavmurthy, referring to talk that he could join Congress, said he is not going anywhere and he will remain in the party. 
 
 “I had met former PM H D Deve Gowda and Kumaraswamy seeking ticket to contest byelection. As the party leaders took time to finalize the candidature, the political circles went agog with rumours that I’ll join the Congress. It is not the case,” he stated. 
 
 He had contested twice from Nanjnagud seat and stood second during the 2013 polls. Chamarajanagar MP Dhruvanarayana is his cousin.
 
 Kumaraswamy said Keshavmurthy has worked hard to build the party in Nanjangud and he will be fielded. “Though we don’t have resources, we will generate funds from the activists and take up the fight,” he said. Many of the leaders and activists, who were present, volunteered to donate money and said they will seek money from the party activists in the constituency.
 
 BOX
 
 Selecting a candidate for Chamaraja assembly segment in Mysuru will not be easy for Kumaraswamy. On Sunday, he was mobbed by a section of the party workers seeking ticket for Harish Gowda, who heads party’s Mysuru unit.
 
 They also sought a clarification from Kumaraswamy on the on-going talk in political circles that former VC of Mysuru University K S Rangappa will be fielded from Chamaraj segment. 
 
 Seemingly agry Kumaraswamy took the workers to task and said they cannot question him on such matters on streets. At one point he even threatened to expel Gowda from the party if his supporters continue to pressurize him. 
 
 Trouble started when the former CM arrived at hotel to attend the party workers meeting. Gowda’s supporters rushed towards him and asked him to clarify. While he was explaining to them that the party leaders are yet to decide, they indulged in sloganeering in support of Gowda. 
 
 “I’ll expel you from the party if you indulge in pressure tactics,” Kumaraswamy told Gowda while he snapped at   asking him why he allowed such leaders in the party. During the meeting, the former CM said those who work for the party will get ticket and asked those who indulge in indiscipline to walk out.
 
 
