JAIPUR:   is becoming popular quickly as a new and more   for  . But, its   has disappointed not only the   but even the doctors feel the need to cap its price. 

 Country’s oncologists have decided to recommend to the health ministry to put a cap on prices of immunotherapy drugs, just like it did by capping prices of stents used in angioplasty.
 
 Oncologists and pulmonologists from across the country gathered in Jaipur to take part in National Conference on Lung Cancer (NCLC) which concluded on Sunday. They talked about the need to bring down the prices of drugs used in immunotherapy. “Immunotherapy is gaining popularity as it has minimal side effects. It does not affect normal cells as it directly acts on abnormal cells. It is more effective. But, the only constraint is its high cost. There are patients who cannot afford it,” said Dr Narendra Khippal, organising secretary, NCLC and professor, Institute of Respiratory Diseases, Sawai Man Singh Hospital.
 
 The cost of one therapy of immunotherapy comes in the range of Rs 1 lakh-Rs1.3 lakh, depending on the weight of the patient. One therapy is required in 21 days. In the next 21 days, another therapy is required. So, it continues from three to six months depending on the patient’s condition.
 
 Cancer is one of the biggest causes of deaths. Experts claimed that lung cancer is the biggest cause of deaths among males and every year, the percentage of deaths due to cancer is increasing. Now, there is a need for better treatment and detecting cancer at an early stage.
 
 However, the experts in the conference pointed out that they are nobody to decide on the cost of the medicines but they can recommend to the government. The participants added that the government can slash taxes on such drugs or it may have a discussion with the companies manufacturing immunotherapy drugs to bring down the cost. Recently, the doctors appealed to private companies to bring down the cost of biomarker testing which is required in immunotherapy. “Now, there are companies which are providing biomarker testing free or they have cut down its cost on the request of the doctors,” Dr Khippal said.
 
 
