MUMBAI: Tata Sons and Japanese telecom giant NTT Do-CoMo are hammering out an out-of-court settlement on the latter’s exit from the Indian joint venture in 2014, which became a flashpoint between the parent of the country’s largest conglomerate and its former chairman Cyrus Mistry. 

  is seeking a $1.2-billion compensation — after an arbitration tribunal in London ruled in its favour last year — for its failed investment in Tata Teleservices, the telecom unit of the Tata Group. Both parties are expected to inform the Delhi High Court on Tuesday that they have agreed upon a framework to settle the dispute amicably and will file a fresh application before the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) soon. DoCoMo will withdraw all cases against the local partner in US, London and Delhi jurisdictions. Tata Sons will pay compensation, a substantial part of it being routed overseas, within a legal framework permitted by the RBI. 
 
 “We are honouring the entire commitment in spirit, though there may be some adjustments factoring in the structuring of the settlement,” said sources. This payment may be routed through the Indian group’s funds or assets parked abroad. The dispute resolution was spearheaded by Ratan Tata, who briefly returned as Tata Sons interim chairman following the ouster of Mistry in October last year. Group veteran and former TCS chief N Chandrasekharan assumed charge as the new Tata Sons chairman on February 21. 
 
 The settlement will make way for Tata Sons to either merge Tata Teleservices with a rival or shut down the unit. Tata Sons was miffed with Mistry for not finding an appropriate settlement — he claimed RBI directives did not allow him to honour a commitment to the foreign partner. The central bank had objected to the pre-determined exit clause in the joint venture, which DoCoMo sought to enforce three years ago. 
 
 When Tata Sons and DoCo-Mo forged the joint venture in March 2009, it was decided that either of the parties could sell their shares to the other at a fair price or half the subscription price of Rs 116 a share, whichever was higher, if the venture did not meet certain performance parameters. In March 2014, DoCoMo exercised the sell option after the fair value dropped to Rs 23, while 50% of the subscription price was Rs 58 per share. The RBI disallowed Tata Sons from buying DoCoMo’s stake at Rs 58 apiece. Instead, it allowed Tata Sons to buy back at the fair value of Rs 23 a share. DoCoMo subsequently dragged Tata Sons to international arbitration, which directed Tata Sons to abide by the pact and provide the former an exit.
 
