PALIA, LAKHIMPUR KHERI: In every house in this part of Lakhimpur-Kheri there are   lying in the courtyard. The 200-odd families in Chauri village consider tyre tube and air pump essential commodity to keep them afloat. Chauri is among dozens of villages where life comes to standstill every year during monsoon.

 Located close to the forceful Sharda river, off the Palia–Nighasan state highway, lakhs of people are hit by floods every year. Cousin brothers Randheer and Balbir of Chauri have learned to tide over the strong currents that leave their village  . “But we cannot think of surviving without tubes. It feels like spending four months on an island,” said Randheer displaying the tyre tube outside his kutcha house.
 
 Like every election season, this time too netas have queued up in Lakhimpur villages promising to fix the problem by erecting concrete retaining walls. But villagers have stopped taking their promises seriously.
 
 During floods, district administration takes help of people who own boats and deploy them as per their discretion. “Boats available with administration are few and we are forced to risk our lives and arrange for fodder for cattle and get groceries, oil and other sundry items from across the stream floating on the tube. Generally, we borrow stuff from relatives who stay on higher grounds and have access to the city,” said Balbir.
 
 Thousands of residents of Chauri, Khalepurwa, Ballipur, Narosa, Laguan, Piparia, Ramnagar Kalan and Ghoom Pipara gram sabhas under Nighasan, Palia and Gola assembly constituencies have been forced to shift out of their original houses at least twice.
 
 Shri Krishna (42) from Ramnagar Kalan was forced to change three homes. “I have become a voter of different constituency now. Earlier, I came under Palia. After the third instance in 2013, we decided to construct a pucca house far away from Sharda basin. Acres of agricultural land sank, unable to withstand the strong currents in July,” said Krishna.
 
 Between Palia and Nighasan, the embankment raised to hold the river gets breached at several places. “Excess mountain water is released in Sharda from Banbasa dam in Champawat district. As Uttaranchal government monitors the dam, we have little scope to do anything,” said Sanjay Shukla, pradhan of the biggest gram panchayat Bhira in Lakhimpur Kheri district where 17,000 people live. Newly built pulias (small bridges) are the ones that wither away easily if monsoon is good, adds Shukla. 
 
 A small breach leads to four months of flood-like situation in the adjoining village which lasts between July and October. Surjeet Singh, a sugarcane grower from Bhira has lost 9.5 acre of land in the past eight years. “This year too, we had to employ JCB to clear the slush after flood water receded,” said Surjeet, pointing at the sandbanks next to his fields which were green till 2013. Over the decades, villagers have learned to handle nature’s fury, knowing there is little the elections would change. 
 
 
