HYDERABAD: CBI sleuths grilled city-based industrialist   about a mysterious person referred to as ‘K’ in the Black Berry Messenger (BBM) conversations between him and controversial meat exporter  . Though the CBI is yet to crack the answer to its question on the person, a former Union minister is suspected to be the ‘K’.

 The CBI is examining BBM chats between 2011 to 2014. There are many code names which are being deciphered. Pradeep is the CEO and executive director of   with its headquarters at Chennai. After registering a graft case against Qureishi, his employee Aditya Sharma, former CBI chief AP Singh, Pradeep Koneru and others on February 16, the CBI had carried out simultaneous searches on the offices and houses of the accused on Monday. CBI spokesperson RK Gaur confirmed to TOI that the searches in Hyderabad and Chennai were over.
 
 The searches concluded late in the night and during the searches conducted at Pradeep’s houses, offices in Hyderabad and Chennai, CBI sleuths have also questioned him about the BBM conversations with Moin Qureshi.
 
 “We know K is a male and he could be either a politician or CBI official or a middleman or a member of a legal fraternity. Pradeep and Qureishi were questioned about K and other code words like ‘Boss’. We also confronted the accused with the names they got from the call data. But, they did not give any useful information. We suspect that it could be a reference to a former cabinet minister,” said a CBI source.
 
 In a message sent to Qureishi on April 21, 2013, Pradeep Koneru said, “Sir Madhu and I plan to be in Delhi on Tuesday to meet Boss. Is it ok? Also please send message to K tomorrow itself.”
 
 To which, Qureishi responded on April 22, saying, “First let K talk to boss. After that we should meet boss.”
 
 Pradeep then texted Qureishi saying, “Sir, will you speak to K today to remind him to speak to boss?”
 
 A little while later, Qureishi responded saying, “I will, I am going to delhi. Will find out about boss and let K know by afternoon.” 
 
 Again on May 2, 2013, Pradeep texted Qureishi saying, “good morning sir did K speak to you regarding Madhu issue or something else. Got call from K’s office asking for your number. I have given this 971130****.”
 
 Qureishi responded saying, “Also give 981003****. I am travelling tonight. This number is working there.”
 
 A few hours later Pradeep responded saying, “Sir did they call you. when are you back?” Qureishi confirmed that K has called him saying, “7th, yes.”
 
 Pradeep then asked, “How do we know if K has called boss?” Qureishi replied, “Not till 8th. As new affidavit on 6th and judgement on 8th you have to take date.”
 
 CBI sources said that they are in the process of gathering evidence and arrests are unlikely at this stage.
 
 The CBI is examining BBM chats between 2011 and 2014. There are many code names which are being deciphered.
 
