NAGPUR: A workshop for   was organized by   (NCDC) to provide them basic training to deal with students stranded during disasters.

 The workshop was conducted by Jaykumar C faculty of   and Neurosciences, Bengaluru, on the topic ‘disaster psycho-social intervention’ on the campus of NCDC. More than 25 teachers of various schools from the city participated in the workshop.
 
 The workshop was full of games and other activities trying to groom teachers on disaster management. Initially, teachers were distributed in pairs and an introduction was carried out. Both the teachers had to give introduction of his or her partner.
 
 “The motive behind this activity was to bring teachers close to human interaction which will even help them in disaster-struck areas,” Jaykumar said.
 
 A brainstorming session was also carried out during the workshop, wherein teachers were asked to suggest needs in disaster-hit places. Teachers participated with full enthusiasm and came up with many suggestion.
 
 In the same session , three groups of teachers were created and each group was given an age limit of children, and they had to note down their requirements. Teachers were also provided the idea of detecting psychological problems from which a child with stress can be identified.
 
 “Shocks or trauma need to be handled very carefully and delicately as a child is sensitive,” Jaykumar said.
 
 “The basic purpose of this workshop is to sensitize teachers about students as teachers are one of the most useful resources for any disaster management team,” he added.
 
 The teachers also enjoyed the session and participated in every activity. “It was a great experience. It will definitely help us spread awareness in schools. We will carry out these activities in our school as well,” said Samuel Mark, a teacher.
 
 “Providing basic needs to children in disaster-affected area is not enough; helping them recover from the trauma is what needs to be done. Disaster keeps evolving from the physical to psychological level for which remedies must be provided,” Jaykumar said.
 
 Gurudev Singh Saini, director of NCDC, was also present in the workshop. “With these activities, we are trying to prepare teachers for any disaster situation. We will also conduct workshops on a larger level to spread awareness,” Saini said.
 
 (Reporting by Viraj Deshpande)
 
 
