NAGPUR:   has no count of how many   he had shaped using his hands. The 66-year-old has been making them for the last 27 years. However, the elderly potter has a perfect count of the number of careers he has shaped in Pethgaon, around 25km from the city.

 Working from home, Khandare is assisted by his sons Pramod and Gopal in the   of making earthen products. Around three years ago, Khandare, along with Kadi Village Industries Commission (KVIC) and  , started holding skill upgrade camps and training programmes for local youths.
 
 KVIC, that comes under the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises, had set up around 17 clusters to promote local talent and industries in Nagpur district. Khandare was named its programme head in Pethgaon and began with training around 20 youths in the first batch.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Khandare said, “I used to make only earthen pots till I met my mentor Vinoo Kaley. He was an architect and a bamboo expert too. He had made a floor plan using bamboo but he wanted it made with mud. Thus, I experimented and switched to making decorative and other earthen products.”
 
 On Monday, KVIC distributed 20 centrally sponsored electric potter wheels to the participants of the third batch as well as those of the five-day workshop that was held at Pethgaon on March 20.
 
 The products made by the participants too were put on display during the concluding day of the short-term training. Such was the appeal of Khandare that dignitaries from the city too tried their hand at making pots.
 
 KVIC director Rahul Gajbhiye said, “The last batch received manual wheels. The next batch would be given solar wheels. The electric wheels will help potters achieve precision and increase efficiency.”
 
 He added that artisans registered under the cluster would get the opportunity to use the   at Community College. “Their products would be displayed during exhibitions in New Delhi. It would help them get international exposure,” Gajbhiye added.
 
 AN Radha, director of Community College, said, “I found Khandare during my days as a dietitian. I was grappling with the problem of storing insulin in rural areas around 15 years ago. I was told that pottery can solve the problem if a potter helped me design a specific container. I searched for one as far as Bhandara and eventually discovered that Khandare could offer help. He made an earthen container that worked as a refrigerator.”
 
 IGNOU regional director P Sivaswaroop, professor at Government Ayurvedic College; Sumeeta Jain, professor at   Rashmi Batra; and former public health officer Rajaram Rokde were also present on the occasion.
 
 
