PANAJI: Former   and chief of selectors   is enjoying India’s acrimonious battle against Australia as the   to win their third Test series here in 50 years.
 
  Since the opening Test at Pune where Australia took India by surprise on a turning wicket, tempers have been running high. On-field sledging was a talking point even before the series but in the first three Tests, sledging has been taken to a different level. And then there was “Cheatgate which soured relations between the two cricketing powerhouses.
  
  On the field, nobody is willing to surrender even an inch and as the two teams prepare for the final showdown in Dharamsala starting Saturday, Vengsarkar is bracing himself for another no holds barred battle.
  
  “I think this   rivalry is good for the game. People also like to see something like this; it’s good for the spectators and all those watching,” Vengsarkar told TOI on Thursday during a family holiday in Goa.
  
  Vengsarkar broke into the Indian cricket team as a talented youngster but it was not until the tour of Australia in 1977-78 that Dilip Vengsarkar established himself in the team. Even during those days, Vengsarkar said, Ausssies sledged and the best way to shut all of them up was to perform on the field.
  
  “Sledging is an Aussie creation. It has been happening since the days of Ian Chappell. You have to be mentally tough to deal with such things.
  
  “I don’t think verbal replies help. Australians love to sledge. The perfect riposte (to the Australians) would be to win this series. Instead of giving it back verbally, you must show you are better on the field,” said Vengsarkar.
  
  The India-Australia series is now delicately poised with the teams tied at 1-1. Australia stunned the hosts with superb application – and Steve Smith’s leadership – in the opening Test at Pune but India fought back with a win at Bengaluru. Ranchi was tied, and even though Australia claimed moral victory, there is everything to play for in Dharamsala.
  
  “I would say the chances are even. Australians have done extremely well. Honestly, I didn’t expect them to do well here. They have better skills (than England) and came better prepared.
  
  “The first (Test) win gave them a massive boost. India defeated England 4-0 and many expected them to do the same against Australia. But Australia are much better than England, who showed poor skills and poor technique. They had no will to fight and no clue on turning wickets,” said Vengsarkar.
