PUNE: Local military authorities have forced the contractor appointed by   to stop the construction of a flyover at Lullanagar junction barely six months after Defence Minister   laid the foundation stone for the project amid much fanfare.

 Civic officials are distraught over what they describe as "arm-twisting" by the military authorities who insist that PMC construct an underpass linking the new Command Hospital with the MH-CTC on Kondhwa Road in exchange for the flyover which is coming up on some part of the defence land about 500m ahead. 
 
 The civic body is willing to build the underpass but there is no clarity on who will foot the Rs 4 crore bill for this project. 
 
 The flyover, which is critical to ease frequent traffic congestion and chaos at Lullanagar junction, has already been delayed by five years considering that the PMC first planned and issued the work order in 2011. It was stuck in a prolonged dispute between civic and defence authorities as the latter insisted that the road was owned by Ministry of Defence and was managed by   for decades. As such, any construction work without the handover of the land was not possible.
 
 Parrikar had played a crucial role in resolving the dispute and facilitating the eventual transfer of 7.2 acre land to PMC to start the flyover’s construction. 
 
 On July 30, 2016, he laid the foundation stone and said the project marked a beginning for the ministry's continued efforts to resolve public project issues in and around Pune involving defence and civilian interests. Yet, things seem to have come back to square one for the flyover. 
 
 Civic officials said, “We have obtained permission from the MoD and other authorities about the work, but military authorities have stopped the construction a fortnight ago. They are now demanding that we construct the underpass linking the new Command Hospital with MH-CTC and raise funds for building it. As per the agreement between PMC and the military authorities, the standing committee and general body have sanctioned funds of Rs 1 crore for the underpass, but the remaining Rs 3 crore should be borne by the   authorities.”
 
 The official added that they have written to Pune sub-area commander Brigadier A K Tyagi about starting the work. “Our superiors have spoken to him over the phone. We have also sent a letter to Pune Cantonment Board’s chief executive officer D N Yadav seeking his intervention in resolving the dispute at the earliest,” the official said.
 
 PMC project department’s chief engineer Srinivas Bonala told TOI, “We have prepared drawings and designs for constructing an underpass or a pedestrian subway and handed it over to the military officials for approval on January 13, but they want us to execute the project. They also want us to cut trees for constructing an approach road. We can execute the project even though the place comes under the cantonment limits, but they will have generate funds from MoD or PCB for executing the work.”
 
 Municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar was not available for comment even after repeated attempts to contact him on his cellphone. He did not respond to text messages send by TOI either. The civic contractor’s employees refused to make a statement. 
 
 When contacted, Brigadier A K Tyagi, who is president of PCB, refrained from making a statement. Emails sent to the defence public relations officer about the flyover and the underpass were unanswered till Tuesday. 
 
