LUCKNOW: Waiting for about six months to get   for   calls for patience. More so, if the crop is destroyed by rains or hailstorm or infested by pest.   districts have been living this misfortune for the last many years. 

 Once Agra e-way got commissioned, however, the uncertainty ceased as now most villagers are able to make Rs 400-1,000 daily by adopting innovative business models along the e-way. Nand Kishore, a regular farmer in Reveri village (Lucknow district) is happy to earn about Rs 300-500 daily from a tea-stall near the under-construction toll plaza on the e-way.
 
 Kishore said, “Engineers and staff of the contractors have been working on this plaza for the last several months I earn by selling them tea and snacks. I also cater to passengers driving through.” 
 
 Besides agriculture, villagers along the e-way are also running poultry and dairy business. Till last year, they could sell eggs and milk only to locals or at best send them to the Lucknow Mandi. But since e-way came up, many have started vending boiled eggs and omelets to the travellers. 
 
 An elderly woman of Indwara village Shanti Devi said, “In my village, I was able to sell at Rs 3.5 per boiled egg. But after putting up a stall on e-way, I am selling boiled eggs at Rs 6 per piece. I am earning about Rs 600 daily. This has helped me buy new blankets for my children.” 
 
 Even dairy owners in Nakhtaura, Jaliamau, Madhvapur, and Fatehganj villages are reaping benefits from e-way by selling dairy produce like ghee, khoya, sweets, etc to the passengers on it. Mohammad Anis, a dairy owner said, “This belt is known for fresh milk products as we supply milk daily to Dubagga mandi of Lucknow. When people move along this stretch, they prefer to buy our produce on the way as it is fresh and also at half the price. Khoya here is at Rs 150 per kg while in main city, you would get it for Rs 320-350 per kg.”
 
 Along the e-way, construction of   is also taking place which has connected many distant villages. Dharmendra Yadav, a private college owner in Gehelwara village said, “Students from far-off villages come to my college, covering 6-10 km. After government started making service lane, villagers have started plying vans to pick and drop students on them. This has given them option to earn extra money, sometimes more than what they used to earn from agriculture.” 
 
