HYDERABAD: The   to the   for the elimination of all unmanned level crossing gates from the country has sent   into a tizzy as many of them feel that they may not be able to replace the crossings with subways, bridges and roads in time.

 A recent review meeting on safety, held at  , put many railway officials of the engineering and operating department on tenterhooks as the general manager of   asked them to coordinate plans with regard to abolishing all unmanned crossings and constructing limited height subways (LHS) and road over bridges by September 2018.
 
 “We have been carrying out safety measures as discussed at each review meeting. But the decision of eliminating unmanned crossings in a year is putting excessive pressure on us as it is not a very easy job to construct subways and roadover-brides. We have already started removing danger-prone crossings as per our action plan, but it would be helpful for us if the railway ministry had extended the deadline,“ said a senior railway engineer in the Secunderabad division.
 
 The 2014 tragedy , in which 20 students were killed after a passenger train rammed into their school bus at an unmanned crossing in Medak district, had prompted railway authorities to announce the closure of unmanned level crossings. Three years have passed since the accident, but very few such crossings have been removed so far.Till July this year, only 22 such crossings were eliminated, the rest 313 unmanned crossings will have to be turned into safe zones in one year.
 
 The action plan of SCR, which had given the railway officials two years to remove unmanned crossings, set the tar get to eliminate 132 crossings in the period 2017-18. “We were prepared to divert seven crossings, construct 81 subways and turn 44 crossings from unmanned to manned in the session 2017-18. Now we are picking up pace to meet the target,“ said the engineer. As per the SCR action plan on prevention of accidents at unmanned railway crossings and its elimination, railway authorities have started off   to educate people about crossing railway tracks and distributing handbills among people near the crossings. Besides, this they are taking up many such safety-oriented actitvities.
 
