AURANGABAD: Overflowing nullahs and waterlogging may give citizens sleepless nights in the monsoon season as the civic body is yet to take up   on major sewage pipelines.

 Civic officials had recently promised the mayor Bapu Ghadamode and deputy mayor Smita Ghogre of completing the task before monsoon. But, a thick silt layer can be seen on many nullahs. The civic body had started desilting a   near Aushadi Bhawan a month ago, but the work is still going on.
 
 The city is dotted with many low-lying localities that are hit by waterlogging every year. Authorities had identified over 12 major nullahs where desilting work has to be carried out before the monsoon starts. Apart from this, authorities have to desilt and clear a passage for nullahs at spots where commercial or residential buildings have come up. 
 
 The civic body, however, is yet to initiate desilting of nullhas though there is less than a month left for the monsoon to start.
 
 Civic chief   told TOI that he is personally monitoring the pre-monsoon preparation work of the   (AMC). “I have already instructed all the ward offices to start desilting work and complete it within the given time frame. I have also called for a special meeting of technical experts and earthmover machine owners to discuss the issues. The   will take help of these persons and try to clean the nullhas,” he said.
 
 The civic body has to clean the 60-km-long network of nullhas. Interestingly, each year the civic administration faces criticism on delaying cleaning of nullahs. The standing committee and general body have also been directing the administration to and take all possible preventive measures to tackle emergency situations during monsoon.
 
 Nullha cleaning is a tough job for the civic authorities especially along areas where the pipelines pass through congested localities like Champa Chowk, Heena Nagar and parts of  . The Kailash Nagar-Sanjay Nagar nullah and Lota Karanja and Barudgar nullah also have a thick layer of deposited silt.
 
