CHENNAI: Hours after the Supreme Court upheld her conviction in the disproportionate assets case, AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala on Tuesday expelled 20 rebel leaders, including O Panneerselvam, from the party's primary membership, but spared 12 MPs and eight MLAs who supported him. 

 The rebel leaders, however, said Sasikala had no authority to act against them, since she was ousted by them on Friday last. Manoj Pandian, one of the sacked leaders, said Sasikala was expelled by none other than presidium chairman E Madhusudanan, who switched sides. "She has been rejected by cadres, people and now by the court. When she is rejected by all sections, she has no authority to sack us," Pandian, legal adviser to late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, said. 
 
 The only MLAs expelled are Panneerselvam and school education minister K Pandiarajan. In a statement, Sasikala urged workers not to have any truck with the leaders in future. "They have violated party principles and brought disrepute," she said. The sacked leaders included former speaker P H Pandian, former ministers C Ponnaiyan, Natham R Viswanathan, K P Munusamy, P Mohan, K A Jayapaul, K P Rajendra Prasad and Parithi Ilamvazhuthi.
 
 Former Union minister E Ponnusamy, minorities wing former secretary J C D Prabhakar, former MLAs K Thavasi, S K Selvam, K Ayyappan and S Muthuselvi, MGR youth wing joint secretary K A K Mukil, North Chennai (South District) presidium chairman V Neelakandan and Madurai rural district former secretary M Muthuramalingam also faced the axe.
 
 Eight   camp MPs, citing party bylaws, wrote to the Election Commission to reject Sasikala's claim to be general secretary. Their contention is that Rule 20 (2) of the bylaw mandates the election of general secretary by 1.5 crore members of the party units of Tamil Nadu, and members of other states like Pondicherry, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 
 
 After the demise of Jayalalithaa, the general council which met in December chose Sasikala as general secretary as an interim arrangement, as she is yet to complete five years in the party. In 2011, Jayalalithaa sacked Sasikala, her husband M Natarajan, and 12 others for treacherous acts against her. Later, Sasikala was reinducted following her public apology in 2012. "The rule that the general secretary should be elected only by primary members cannot be changed or amended since it forms the basic structure of the party," Pandian said.
 
 
