KOLKATA: Pull out your woollens and brace for the chill. After a relatively warm period during which the mercury climbed up to 16 degrees Celsius, Kolkata is finally going to experience some mid-winter nip. With the north-westerly flowing in more intensely, the mercury is set to plunge over the next 48 hours. The minimum temperature may slide to 13 degrees Celsius or even a notch below on Saturday, predicted the Met office. But a cloudy and warm spell lay ahead, it added. On Friday, Kolkata recorded a minimum temperature of 14.3 degrees Celsius.

 “The north-westerly has revived and it is bringing in icy winds from Kashmir once again. So, we are headed for a cool 48 hours. The chilly spell could come to an abrupt end on Monday since a   is now active in the north-west part of the country. It is advancing in a south-east direction and if it reaches Uttar Pradesh, Kolkata will feel the impact,” said  , director,   (RMC).
 
 Western disturbances are extra-tropical storms that originate outside the subcontinent and are the principal triggers of winter rain in India. Once it approaches the eastern region, the north-westerly will be cut off, pulling the mercury up. “There is a distinct possibility of that happening from Monday. So, the warmth could return early next week. But that will not be the end of chill this season. Once the cloud cover goes and the western disturbance fizzles out, the mercury could plunge,” said Das.
 
 In Kolkata, there are several instances of a western disturbance being followed by a chill. In fact, the city has often recorded its lowest temperature in the aftermath of a western disturbance. “Western disturbances are associated with rain and snow. They trigger an immediate temperature rise but leave a chilly spell in its wake. In India, they approach from Kashmir and travel through Punjab and Uttar Pradesh before striking the eastern zone. Depending on the intensity, it could have an impact on the weather of its entire travel path,” said a weather scientist.
 
 Last week, a   had pulled the mercury up. It was responsible for the relatively warm beginning to the year. The mercury has not been sliding below 16 degrees Celsius for the last five days. It had plunged to 12.7 degrees on December 16, the season’s lowest so far.
 
