AHMEDABAD:   and Lakshmi Mali -both farm labourers -have reaped sweet rewards from neem trees. While Tini paid for her niece's education, Lakshmi repaid a loan. They are among the 1.25 lakh women seed collectors associated with the   ( ) Ltd's Neem Project, an initiative conceived to empower women and the rural poor.
The state-run company's sustainable development model has won prestigious accolades back to back. In the past two months, it has been conferred the Golden Peacock Award for Corporate Social Responsibility and the SKOCH Blue Economy Platinum Sustainability Award.
 
 In May 2015, the central government made it mandatory for all indigenous urea makers to produce 100% of their total subsidized urea in neem-coated form. The objective was to prevent diversion of urea to chemical factories.
 
 Taking the lead, the GNFC started manufacturing its own neem oil by roping in women and landless labourers as neemseed collectors. Neem oil extracted from the seeds is used for coating urea. Neem cake, an organic fertilizer generated as a by-product, is also used by farmers in organic farming.
 
 “It is a win-win situation for the GNFC and the community ,“ said Rajiv Kumar Gupta, the MD of the GNFC. “Even after making liberal payments of up holders, and spending on transportation, storage and oil extraction, the company earned a few crores in profit from the project. The company has decided to spend this money only on   activities.“
 
 Gupta has been awarded the SKOCH Blue Economy Person of the Year for conceptualizing, designing, and managing the project. In its first year (2015-16), the project generated Rs 10-12 crore in income for about 1 lakh rural women and landless labourers. Today , 1,200 self-help groups in 4,000 villages of 22 districts of the state are covered under the project.
 
 According to a study conducted by the United Nations Development Programme, the project has emerged as a viable Rural Income Generating Activity, and yields robust supplementary income during the non-farming season which also reduces migration. “Inspired by the multidimensional benefits of the project, the   has directed other fertilizer companies to replicate this, taking support from the GNFC,“ Gupta said.
 
 For 2017-18, the company has set the target of collecting 40,000 metric tonnes of seeds from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan,  , Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, and Andhra Pradesh. The GNFC has tied up with big retail chains for selling valueadded products, which are already being sold by 5,000 fertilizer retailers in Gujarat.
 
