NEW DELHI: In the first official details on   carried out by   last year, the army’s account of the action provides a broader picture of the gallantry of an officer who personally killed four targets in close combat, a sniper who got his targets by sharpshooting into a bunker and a team that inflicted heavy casualties on regular  .
 
  ET gathered details of the records justifying the gallantry medal winners, through which some of the cross-border action can be stitched together.. While names are being withheld by ET due to  , records show that the top six gallantry winners themselves took down at least 10 targets, mostly in close combat.
  
  The army had read out a statement after the September 29 strikes, saying that heavy casualties had been inflicted at launch pads across the line of control (LoC), but no details were offered.
  
  There has been no official word even on the number of militants killed across the border. But for the first time, official records state that regular   suffered casualties in the strike as well. “Enemy intercepts later confirmed destruction of terrorists, massive casualties to terrorists and enemy regulars supporting them,” according to one of the records on qualifying acts of gallantry winners.
  
  While the total death toll would be higher as full details of the operation are not available, records show that two officers were personally responsible for four kills each, including sentries who were taken down in the open.
  
  “(The soldier) along with his buddy closed in and neutralised two sentries in the open… ensured the execution of the task flawlessly with clockwork precision and eliminated four enemy persons in close quarter combat,” the record for one gallantry awardee states.
  
  Another says: “With his decisive thinking, astute resolve and courage beyond call of duty, the officer eliminated four enemy persons and ensured no enemy escaped from the target location.”
  
  The details confirmed one well-known trait of the Indian Army--its officers lead from the front and get into active combat first, leading a team of soldiers. Another record for a gallantry award winner shows how an officer motivated his outnumbered troops to engage with the enemy.
  
  “Despite heavy retaliation by terrorists and enemy regulars, he continued engaging the enemy while motivating his troops to destroy the target,” it says.
  
  “Inspired by his conspicuous gallantry, grit and raw aggression, his men, despite being outnumbered, attacked the enemy with renewed aggression, stunning them into a state of psychological paralysis.”
  
  Of particular interest is the role of a soldier who deliberately ran toward incoming fire to engage the enemy as he realised his comrades were in trouble.
  
  “The experienced (soldier) using his presence of mind and initiative, sensing grave danger and infliction of own casualties, with utter disregard to own safety under intense enemy fire ran down and fired killing two,” the account read. 
