VADODARA/ AHMEDABAD: The ice cream versus frozen desserts battle triggered by   (HUL) is getting hotter with rising mercury. 

 Even as the Bombay HC on Wednesday refused to grant an interim stay to Hindustan Unilever (HUL) against Amul real ice cream's TV campaign, more ice cream manufacturers have decided to support the home-grown dairy giant in its legal battle.
 
 HUL, which markets Kwality Walls has filed the case in the   against the marketers of Amul brand - the   (GCMMF) -- terming the Amul TV campaign differentiating between ice cream and frozen desserts as "misleading". While Kolkata-based firm, Pabrai's Fresh & Naturelle Ice-Cream, is planning to join HUL to take on Amul, Ahmedabad-based Havmor and Mother Dairy, Delhi, decided to support Amul. “Both Havmor and Mother Dairy have consented to join Amul as respondent in this case,“ confirmed R S Sodhi, managing director of GCMMF , adding that since HUL has not been given any relief by the Bombay HC, Amul can continue with its current ice cream versus frozen dessert campaign.
 
 “Being a 100% milk ice cream maker, we have agreed to join Amul in its legal battle,“ said Ankit Chona, managing director,  .
 
 “From the beginning, we have been making only milk cream-based ice creams and we have never made frozen desserts. In one of our surveys, we found out that 92%-93% people did not know the difference between frozen desserts and ice-creams. We believe that consumers should know what they are eating,“ said Chona, commenting on the raging debate.
 
 “What Amul has done (through its advertisement) is good for the ice-cream in dustry. It was actually required,“ he added.
 
 HUL had sought immediate removal of the advertisement. The Bombay High Court will hear the case again on April 5.
 
 Amul has argued that its advertisement neither names nor hints at Kwality Walls. Instead the campaign reinforces the USP of the brand i.e Amul ice creams are made from real milk as compared to frozen desserts that are made from vegetable oils.
 
 Amul says the campaign highlights the mandate of checking the word `ice cream' on the packs before it is bought by the consumers. Ice cream is mandatorily manufactured using only dairy ingredients as raw material as per the Food Safety and Standards Regulation, 201
 
