It's been a huge and much needed win for Congress in Punjab, but the victory has been eclipsed by the extent of defeat in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and uncertainty over its prospects in Goa and Manipur, despite having emerged ahead of BJP.

 The Congress wipeout in UP and Uttarakhand marks a fresh setback for the party that has been unable to find its bearings since its 2014 Lok Sabha debacle, and party vice-president Rahul Gandhi in the crosshairs of critics again for his lacklustre leadership. It's Congress' Punjab face Amarinder Singh who is being credited for saving the party from complete embarrassment by pulling off a thumping win over AAP and the Akalis.
 
 Now, the coming electoral battles in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh later this year, followed by Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan in 2018 seem daunting.
 
 It is, however, a given that internal discontent is unlikely to pose a threat, and Rahul Gandhi will stay at the helm despite failures.
 
 Party leaders said the Gandhi scion has failed to pick the right issues to take on the government. The default option of Modi-bashing is seen by many insiders as a failing one given that the Prime Minister seems to enjoy an enduring appeal among voters, “irrespective of whether we like it or not“.
 
 Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi admitted that Modi had caught and held the popular imagination though he described demonetisation as a bad move. Senior Congress members said Rahul has failed to inspire.
 
 That he has been reluctant to formalise taking charge of the party -which has repeatedly delayed organisational polls and even earned a rebuke from the Election Commission -continues to baffle them.
 
 “We have not done any thing on the leadership or messaging front. The fear is that a step in that direction now, if at all it happens, may be too late to matter to workers or voters,“ a former Union minister said.
 
 In Parliament, Congress has yoked itself to obstructive tactics, perhaps more suited to regional outfits like Trinamool Congress.
 
 In the five-state elections, Congress fortunes rode on its performance in the prize state of Uttar Pradesh, and as BJP swept aside any challenge, Congress functionaries appeared demoralised to the point of losing confidence in the party's ability to contest future assembly elections. Some senior Congress members seemed to feel that the 2019 Lok Sabha contest was out of reach too. With status quo seeming to be the guiding principle, senior Congress members concede that the party is facing an existential crisis.
 
