MADURAI: There is no need to file an   in conflict with law, unless the crime is of grave nature and instead police should record them as a report to produce it before the   (JJB), said chief judicial magistrate, R Gayathri Devi.

 She was addressing a large number of police personnel and officers representing all police stations in both the city and district police units in a capacity building programme organised by integrated child protection scheme and Madurai district child protection unit on Friday. The police personnel, who took part in the programme are child welfare officers, assigned to take care of child-related crimes in each police station. 
 
 Devi urged the police personnel to file an FIR only in cases, which will attract punishment of more than three years. For minor crimes, they can prepare a social report and present to the JJ Board, so that the juveniles with conflict of law do not become hardened criminals.
 
 She expressed concern over the highest number of grave crimes involving juveniles in conflict with law. She insisted police to approach such crimes with a larger perspective, as she suspected that minors are being operated by hardened criminals. Often they are lured by liquor and biryani. They carry out such crimes as children in conflict with law do not attract stringent action.
 
 “Madurai has the highest number of cases with the involvement of minors than places like Chennai. The situation is pathetic as around 150 cases pertaining to murder and attempt to murder are pending before the board,” she rued. 
 
 Devi also expressed concern over the efficient functioning of the child welfare officers as she said that even inspectors are not aware of a child welfare officer police, who are assigned to take care of crimes involving minors. 
 
 Madurai collector   inaugurated the programme. District child protection officer M Viviliaraja organized the event. The event was aiming at clearing doubts the police personnel in handling crime involving minors. 
 
