VADODARA: Even after more than a month, mystery continues to shroud the murder of Akash  , a casual labourer whose body was found in a pond in Ghaghretiya village near the city. 

 Coincidentally, murder case of an unidentified man whose body was found near the same pond in September 2004 also remains unsolved till date.
 
 On January 21, police had received a call that an unidentified man’s body was floating in the pond. Chaturvedi, whose identity was learnt by the cops a day later, was stabbed at least 20 times on the chest and throat with a knife. 
 
 During initial investigations, police suspected that somebody from Chaturvedi’s neighbourhood in VUDA quarters in Kishanwadi had murdered him.
 
 Chaturvedi had some problems in speech and hearing.
 
 The police had even picked up seven persons for questioning but due to lack of evidence they were not arrested. “Chaturvedi was murdered at unknown location and then his body was thrown in the pond. We suspected that he was murdered over love affair but that reason has been ruled out since the girl in question got married more than a year ago,” said a police official.
 
 A similar incident had happened near the same pond in Ghaghretiya more than 12 years back. 
 
 An unidentified man’s body was found by the villagers in a mutilated condition. On September 4, 2004, residents of Ghaghretiya informed the police that unidentified persons had killed a man and dumped the body after cutting it into two. The limbs had also been severed from the body.
 
 According to the police records, the unidentified body was cut into two pieces in a white car near the pond and it was burnt there.  , a resident of the village had then registered a complaint of murder at   police station against an unidentified person.
 
 Neither the deceased, nor the assailants were identified by the police. The stage of the investigation in the 12-year-old case was not known since the case papers were in court’s custody but the police confirmed that the gory murder remains undetected till date.
 
 
