Nagpur: Three days after TOI reported on pro-Vidarbha activists fighting for post of Nagpur High Court Bar Association (HCBA) president, one of them withdrew his stake, citing that “statehood movement” shouldn’t suffer. The newspaper on Friday, reported on Vidarbha Connect (VCan) President Mukesh Samarth locking horns with Jan Manch president Anil Kilor for the coveted post although other contestants like VG Bhamburkar were in fray. However, after intervention by staunch Vidarbha protagonist Shreehari Aney, Samarth decided to withdraw, thus paving way for easy victory of Kilor during February 10 polls. Already in many controversies, the polls was talking point among the lawyers after both pro-Vidarbha activists staked their claims on coveted post and even started their campaigning. Some tried to induce truce between two old buddies, who actually are responsible for spreading awareness about the separate Vidarbha state among the masses, but in vain.  It was only after senior counsel Aney invited both and persuaded them to contest on different platforms so that there shouldn’t be any internal fight between Vidarbha activists. He also called on them to fight for gaining control of all such bodies where pro-Vidarbha activists would occupy the top positions. Accordingly, Samarth agreed to allow Kilor to fight HCBA polls while he would play an active role in Bar Council of India (BCI) elections. He would support Kilor during campaigning, thus boosting his prospects in the polls. The deadline for filing up of nomination forms is extended till January 30 and in all likelihood, more number of candidates would jump into the fray, as per HCBA members. There are talks of noted lawyer Shreerang Bhandarkar entering into the fray, in wake of his huge popularity among the legal fraternity, but he refused to open his cards, till last date of nomination. Samarth told TOI that he decided to sacrifice the post with a view that statehood movement shouldn’t reflect internal fight between the activists. “After meeting Aney, we’ve agreed to his suggestions so that the movement shouldn't suffer and earn bad name. Both of us wanted to have pro-Vidarbha members on all these bodies to actually give push to the movement. I am very sure that he will give full justice to the post and take the association to newer heights,” he said. The polls would be conducted for one post of president, secretary, joint secretary, library in charge, and treasurer along with two posts of vice presidents and nine members. Those however have already landed in various controversies after existing body failed to announce its schedule for over five months, even after end of their tenure. It was only after the issue was brought to fore by TOI on November 2 that HCBA’s Executive Committee conducted the meeting and announced the schedule.