Chennai: At a time when serious efforts are being made to regulate unapproved plots, the state-run Tamil Nadu Housing Board ( ) has sold more than 60 residential plots without obtaining the mandatory approvals from the   (DTCP). Although allotment letters were issued in 2011, the plots situated in Alapakkam in Chengalpet are yet to be handed over as the approvals are still pending. 

 P Senthil Kumar of Adyar, one of the allottees, said most of them had paid the entire cost of their respective plots. “I had paid Rs. 8.07 lakh for a plot of about 1615 square feet, of which Rs 3.23 lakh was remitted as initial payment while the rest was paid in equated monthly installments," he said.
 
 The TNHB had launched the housing scheme in 2011 and received more than 5000 applications. Of these, 63 applicants were chosen through draw of lots. "We came to know that the plots did not have approval from the concerned authorities only after paying the initial installment," said Senthil Kumar, wondering how a state government organisation could market a project by flouting norms. "Still, we paid the remaining EMIs hoping that the plots would be handed over to us," he said. About Rs. 4 crore has been paid in total by different allottees, he added.
 
 "Whenever we attempted to get clarity on the plots, the sole response from the TNHB was that it would be updated soon after getting clearance for the scheme from the appropriate bodies," said S Sivapragasam, another allottee from Kodungaiyur.
 
 Against this backdrop, a section of allottees launched a hunt for their plots and got a rude shock as the property supposedly identified for the scheme was situated in the midst of a graveyard. They suspect that the approval has not been given due to the presence of the burial ground. "We have been cheated. The TNHB has refunded the money for some of the allottees, but we want our plots either in the same area or in a different location," he added.
 
 When contacted, a senior official with TNHB said the plots are in the final stage of approval. "If we get approval, the plots would be handed over in good condition. In the event the approval is denied, an alternate site in the same area would be considered for the existing allottees," the official added.
 
