PUNE: A   for Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act has   anticipatory bail pleas of   in an alleged Rs 10.45 crore investment   by a firm in Kondhwa over the last seven years. 

 The case is being probed by Pune police’s economic offences wing. “Our priority now is to arrest the suspects, who have gone into hiding,” inspector Mahadev Kumbhar said.
 
 “A lookout notice has been issued at international airports across the country for the main suspect, Rajesh Kamble, who has been out of India since February 2016,” Kumbhar said. Rajesh and his wife Vidya set up the unregistered firm. In his absence, Vidya and their associates, Amol Shah and Ajay Prabhudesai, managed it, he added.
 
 The firm allegedly lured depositors, promising them returns at 5% per month, or 60% per annum. It failed to deliver on the promise, prompting a depositor to approach police in July 2016. The court had granted an interim   to Vidya, Shah and Prabhudesai on August 1, 2016. 
 
 Kumbhar said after the three suspects are arrested, we will initiate the process to attach their properties under the provisions of the MPID Act.
 
 A substantial part of the Rs 7.45 crore deposits collected from investors was divested from the firm’s account with a bank at Magarpatta to the individual bank accounts of Vidya, Amol and Ajay, police investigations have revealed. Vidya bought three properties in her name at a private hill township in Mulshi. 
 
 Apart from the deposits, the Kambles are bound by the promissory notes issued to the depositors to give them returns worth Rs 2.70 crore, police said.
 
 In an order rejecting the pleas on January 9, special judge (MPID) SJ Kale held in the case of Vidya that the applicant had some role in the crime going by the police papers and statements recorded by depositors. “In the absence of her husband, she was playing an active role in the firm’s affairs. She seems to have eight bank accounts in Pune in her name. A thorough probe is required regarding these accounts and transactions thereunder,” the judge said, pointing out that Vidya had no independent source of income.
 
 In the case of Shah and Prabhudesai, the court observed, “There are statements of a number of witnesses, who clearly indicate that they had given the amount to the (two) applicants for investment in the firm as they were lured by the huge return promises given by the applicants.” This called for their custodial interrogation and investigation, the court stated.
 
