Veteran actor and Padma Shri awardee  's demise has left a void in the 
  industry. The 66-year-old actor was found dead in his residence on Friday, January 6, morning. Having given us stellar performances in memorable films like ' ', 'Arohan', 'Jaane Bhi Do Yaaro' and 'Drohkaal', the two-time National Award-winning actor was in a league of his own. Bollywood directors   and   pay their ode to the powerhouse performer.

 
 
 
 It's very sad that Om Puri is not with us anymore. We have done many films together ' 'Ghayal', 'China Gate' and he even had a small role in 'Ghatak'. He was a very warm human being and it was his warmth that came across in his performances.
 
 What I noticed about him as a director was that he was an actor of unmatched caliber. You give him any role and he will perform it with utmost conviction. He could play any character ' be it the cop in 'Ghayal' or his stellar performance in 'Aghaat'. I can't think of any actor from today that comes close to him. There is a lot to learn from Om Sir's acting abilities. The impression that he has left on Indian cinema is unparalleled.
 
  
  
 
 
 We became very good friends despite the age difference between us. I was always in awe of his performances. I remember being completely awestruck when I saw 'Ardh Satya'. As a director, I knew that I have to work with him someday and was glad when he agreed to be a part of 'Kurbaan'. As a writer-director, I try to write at least 4 pages every day. I had once mentioned this to him. After that, Om Puri would often call me at nights and ask me, 'Did you write your 4 pages today?' He used to say that I am a very disciplined director and he liked that about me.
 
 
 
 There is so much hullabaloo over stars crossing over today. But Om Puri was one of the first Bollywood actors to cross over in the true sense. I know that during such times, people always say that it's a huge loss. But today, when Om Puri is gone, his demise is truly a great loss to Indian cinema.
 
  
  
