GURUGRAM:   may have given up on acquisition of land for common open spaces in new sectors, but large tracts of prime land along   ( ) belonging to the authority, earmarked for green areas, have been encroached by shops, eateries, liquor vends and nurseries.

 Not only have the encroachments eaten up on green space, they have also deprived the sector of space for pedestrian paths, while vehicles parked in front of the nurseries and eateries have shrunk road space, leading to regular traffic jams during peak hours. Large numbers of people have recently moved into condominiums in the new sectors along SPR, and residents have now started facing problems due to the encroachments.
 
 Huda had acquired 90m on either side of SPR to develop green areas, and as back up to expand the road further when traffic increases in future. Most of the encroachments are on the stretch of SPR between sectors 62 and 65.
 
 People who stop at these outlets, park their vehicles on the main road, leaving little space for other commuters. This leads to major traffic snarls, especially during peak hours. 
 
 “Pedestrians have to risk their lives by walking on a road chock-full of vehicles driven at high speeds coming from behind,” said Ritesh Malhotra, resident of Sector 65, adding that over the years, several nurseries, eateries, repair shops, etc, have cropped up on the encroached land.
 
 Residents alleged that of late, illegal hutments have also cropped up on the Huda green belt along the road. “Mostly, people employed by the illegal outlets on the green belt, or as domestic helps in the nearby areas, live in these hutments,” said Malhotra.
 
 Vimal Sharma, resident of Sector 66, said encroachments cause traffic jams. “Major traffic snarls are caused by people who park their vehicles on the main road to visit these illegal outlets, leaving little space for commuters, especially during peak hours,” said Sharma.
 
 Monika Kalra, resident of Sector 62, said these illegal encroachments are a major concern, as they are choking the road. “It’s also shaping up to be a potential law-and-order problem in the near future. Huda must address this problem and take immediate action, before it gets out of hand,” said Kalra, adding so far, no action was taken to remove these encroachments. She said in future, it’ll become even more difficult to remove squatters.
 
 In September 2016, Huda announced it could not acquire the 1,294 acre plot it had earmarked to develop open spaces in new sectors 58-115, as per the Gurgaon-Manesar Plan 2013. Since then, Huda is struggling to protect even its existing land earmarked for green space.
 
 When TOI contacted Huda officials, they assured to look into the issue. “Concerned official will be directed to survey the area to find out the status of   and take appropriate action,” said a senior Huda official.
 
