Last Thursday,   took off to  , an island off the east coast of Kra Isthmus in Thailand, to bring in sister Shagun's birthday on April 8. The 29-year-old actress returned from her short break on Sunday and will take off to London this afternoon for  's 'Judwaa 2'. Her co-star 
  is already in the Queen's city.

 "Shagun and I make sure that we celebrate at least one of our birthdays out of the country. Since it was just after the release of my last film and before I started my next, we decided to take off for Koh Samui. We love the beaches and went scuba-diving and snorkelling," beams Taapsee.
 
  
  
 She will now be in London for the next month-and-a-half and has already seen the 1997 original a couple of times. As part of her prep, the actress has been working out diligently. "I'll be sharing screen space with two good-looking actors, Varun and Jacqueline (Fernandez) and don't want to come up short. I play squash regularly and hit the gym when I need to build up muscle," she informs.
 
 Incidentally, Taapsee made her Bollywood debut in 2013 with David Dhawan's 'Chashme Baddoor' remake and is excited to be collaborating with the 61-year-old filmmaker again. "'Chashme Baddoor' released on April 5, 2013. Four years later, around the same time, we'll start shooting the 'Judwaa' sequel. David sir is not strict but he'll tell you straight if he doesn't like something. It's easy to know if he is happy with you or not," she points out, gushing over how sweet his family has been, with David himself calling to check on her every few months and give his feedback to her films. "Varun and Rohit visited the 'Chashme Baddoor' set once."
 
 She was recently clicked with Varun at an award function and their chemistry was visible. The observation makes her laugh, "I've known Varun for a while now, so I went up to him and hugged him. I didn't even know someone had clicked us. He's a genuinely warm guy. We recently had the final reading sessions of 'Judwaa 2' and I can't wait to start shooting," she exults.
 
 She goes on to admit that while she recently played strong, quiet characters like the harassed Minal Arora in the National Award winning film, 'Pink', she's actually a hyper-active person and that's one of the reasons she's looking forward to 'Judwaa 2', in which she'll be dancing to the recreated versions of two chartbusters, 'Tan Tana Tan' and 'Oonchi Hai Building', from the Salman Khan-starrer original. "Both are iconic numbers and have been on my playlist forever. We'll be shooting in Central London and hopefully in Oxford too. Woah, London, here I come!"
 
  
  
 
