BENGALURU: Riya (name changed), 17 would spend all her day playing games on her parents’ smartphones. Soon, the girl’s eyesight grew weak, and her power went down from minus 1.5 to minus 3. She also started developing   and a  .

 The teenager was diagnosed with dry eyes, something that affects adults above 45 years. Ophthalmologists blamed Riya’s excessive use of smartphones for the condition. Riya has been advised to cut down on her use of smartphones, modify her diet and engage in outdoor activities.
 
 Ditto with 32-year-old Souvik (name changed), a software engineer. Souvik had been suffering from severe headaches and strain in eyes for six months. Continuous use of   and prolonged exposure to desktops was found to have caused ciliary muscle spasm and dry eyes, resulting in unbearable headache. After going through a month-long treatment, by the end of which he even distanced himself from his phone, except for making calls, Souvik is now feeling better.
 
 While earlier dry eyes was just an age related problem and a side-effect of menopause, more youngsters are getting affected now, say doctors. They blame it on digital vision strain caused by excessive use of smartphones and other digital devices like desktops, laptops, and tablets.
 
 “Excessive use of smartphones and visual display units (VDUs) causes a significant decrease in the eyes’ blink rate. Blinking is an important reflex which results in secretion of tears. Any reduction in blink rate results in dry eye and associated problems,” said Dr Sirish Nelivigi, head of ophthalmologist department at Sakra World Hospital. 
 
 Older people too suffer from dry eyes, but this is due to overall weakening of bodily functions and is different from smartphone-related dryness, say doctors. “Many people end up taking inappropriate treatment from medical stores, which isn’t advisable,” said Dr Nelvigi.
 
 Dr Rohit Shetty, vice chairman at Narayana Nethralaya, sees 300 young patients with dry eyes every month. “Our lifestyle has a clear impact on the health of our eyes. Most of us are confined indoors due to work or study and have little exposure to natural light which results in depletion of Vitamin D in the body. Stress and anxiety triggered from maximum digital use are other key factors for dry eyes among youngsters,” he said.
 
 “Tear glands are very important for us to be able to see clearly. In case of dry eyes, the tear glands are unable to produce adequate aqueous layer of tear film. The lack of this results in poor vision,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 “It’s very important to blink, take breaks for 10 minutes after every 45 minutes of work, change lifestyle and maintain a good diet. One should try and be in natural settings. This helps enhance lubrication in eyes. Including seasonal and citrus fruits in diet is a must to battle dry eyes,” said Dr Ajanta Chakravarty, consultant ophthalmologist at Manipal Hospitals. 
 
  Doctors say it’s important that we develop some healthy habits when it comes to using digital devices. “One should always increase the font of the letters while reading on smartphones or laptops. Not holding the device too close to the eye also helps. Ensure your smartphone has a large screen, anti-reflective coating and screen filter,” explained Dr Urrama Ghosh, consultant ophthalmologist and glaucoma specialist at St. Martha’s Hospital. 
 
 
 
 Smartphones with small LED screens induce ocular fatigue, glare, and irritation. Also, prolonged focus on the device can lead to an increase in refractive errors. People with high myopia might find it even more difficult to recover from eye irritation due to smartphones. Also, the tiny muscles of the eye - ciliary muscles -- can go into a spasm, causing blurring of vision, headache and inability to focus
 
 Dr Kaushik Murali | president, medical administration, Sankara Eye Foundation
 
 
