NAGPUR: State director general of police  , who reviewed law and order situation in city on Monday, said setting up the processing plant on a quick note can pave way to resolve the conflict around   mining project in Etapalli taluka.

 It was at the mining site on December 23 last year that the naxalites had set 80 vehicle, including three JCB machines and one bike, on fire protesting the coporate project.
 
 The state top cop also said that the state’s response to the Naxal issue has been one of the best in the country. “The just-concluded local civic election was completed ensuring there was no disruption of the process in the district,” he said. 
 
 Mathur also stated that morale of the force at present in the district is high. “It was heartening to see the level of motivation even among the women constables at the remote posts like Kothi which I visited. There is also a wave of enthusiasm among the young crop of IPS officers in the state to serve in  ,” said the top cop. 
 
 When questioned about the latest arson of Monday at Sironcha taluka, Mathur argued that there can be ups and down on either camp of police and naxal. “Naxalism would not disappear but certainly there would be no deficiency from our response system,” he said. “We managed to nab two naxalites during polling phase and another was killed in the gun battle earlier,” he said. “There is a regular co-ordination meetings with paramilitary forces and also personal communications,” said the top cop. 
 
 Mathur, who also visited Gadchiroli during the   tour, underlined the fact that the very root cause of the dispute at Surjagad is the notion of natural resources mined from the district being ferried outside at the cost of the local tribal. “Even if police are present but the local issues need to be addressed,” he said. 
 
 The state top cop also said that the government’s logistics support has gone a long way to help the security forces topple the naxal domination in the district. “The government supported by providing necessary equipments and manpower helped removing shortfalls in such aspects. Even the government’s policy of extending support to the martyrs’ families before 2009 also paved way to boost the moral of the force,” he said. 
 
 Mathur, whose focus on ensuring the upcoming Holi remained peaceful while talking to the top cops, also said that the local police have been extending their efforts to ensure that the infrastructural and developmental works like erecting bridges for bettering the communications are completed without hiccups. “We try to attract attention of the government wherever we come across any deficiencies in the administrative machineries. The top cops, including me, along with senior bureaucrats have been also attending the public gatherings, like Jan jagaran melawa, to understand the local needs of the population and accordingly take up the issue with the administration,” he said.
 
 
