The operators at   (ACR) had a busy Holi. No, they were not being drenched in colours – instead, they were battling a deluge of phone calls throughout the day. But unlike other days, when most of the calls are related to crimes in the city, on Holi, the operators had to deal with a number of ‘anti-Holi’ Noidawallahs calling to ‘report’ kids throwing balloons at them or neighbours forcing them to play Holi against their will. The Dial 100 control room in the city witnessed a similar scene. Operators at the control rooms in Noida and   say that they received close to 8,000 calls on Holi, and almost three-fourths of those were either prank calls or calls regarding trivial matters that did not require police action.

 ‘
 
 The advance Holi apology is ‘Bura na maano Holi hai,’ but several people in Noida did not get that memo, it seems, for the control rooms received hundreds of phone calls from angry residents complaining about overzealous neighbours and kinds throwing water balloons. An   says, "Log phone karke kehte hain ki bachche gubbaare maar rahe hain. Unhe aa kar roko. Some people complain that their neighbours are being overzealous aur woh zabardasti kar rahe hain. Ab iss par kya action le sakte hain hum?" The cops say they use their discretion in determining which complaints can be serious and require action.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 An operator explains, "Of course, if any fight starts, then we send a PCR van to the area, otherwise the fight can get out of control – and we can’t let that happen." Cops receive complaints about trivial matters such as loud music and dhol too. “People complained that the music played by their society was too loud and it was disturbing their kids, who are appearing for their Board exams and are studying. We got complaints against the use of dhol and even about someone using a hose to spray water,” says an operator.
 
 
  
  The helpline number 100 gets a lot of calls every day, but on Holi, the number is even higher and ranges from complaints of eve-teasing to prank calls by intoxicated people, Noida police officials tell us (Picture for representational purpose only)
 
 
 
 
 Noida’s wide roads have a reputation of being the best in NCR and many joyriders take advantage of the lack of traffic on Holi to indulge in some stunt-biking or overspeeding. Operators say that they received a number of calls about bikers ‘creating nuisance’ on or near the Expressway. An operator at the district’s Dial 100 control room tells us, "There were several dozen calls for PCRs regarding youngsters doing stunt-riding on the Expressway as well. This is the usual drama on festivals in Noida now. Koi bhi tyohar ho, yeh log bike le kar Expressway chale jaate hain stunt maarne. We had   patrolling the area throughout as a result."
 
 
 
 
 Some calls, however, are festive but even they are not very welcome, the operators say. A lot of audibly drunk people call the control room either to mumble or wish the cops a happy Holi. An operator at the ACR says, "Several people just call and can hardly mutter a clear sentence. It is clear from their voice that they are drunk. We try to listen for the first 30 seconds in case it is a genuine call but after that, just hang up. There is no point wasting time on such callers. A lot of them just call to wish us Happy Holi too." Another operator adds, "A few people – mostly kids – call up and say ‘Uncle, Happy Holi!’. These are the genuine ones, not pranksters. Ek ne kaha ki mujhe bura lag raha hai ki sab log khel rahe hain aur aap kaam kar rahe ho isliye socha call kar ke wish kar doon.”
 
 
