The team of Mohd Kaif and Ravi Verma won the overall trophy at the 120-km adventure car rally 2017 organised on the outskirts of Bhopal on Saturday. Madhya Pradesh Automobile Association (MPAA) organised the contest. Team of Kaif and Verma also bagged top spot in the petrol category, while Ashar Syed and Zaid Khan won the first position in the diesel category. 

 State cooperative minister Vishwas Sarang flagged off the rally at a a prominent mall in the city. The participants were asked to complete the distance in two rounds — transport round and competitive round. Under the competitive round, participants were asked to complete the race in minimum time. Transport round was easy the participants as it was drive on metallic road within a limited time limit. After reaching Raisen city, the participants went inside the jungle to complete the competitive round. 
 
  coupled with deep pits and muddy track added to the fun of the contest. In order to take lead in the race, few vehicles witnessed summersaults, but no one was injured. “We had made tough safety norms for the contestants. Though the route was tough passing through different hillocks, there was no injury reported in the competition. The clinical driving of the contestants could be gauged from the fact that only three participants out of 41 could not complete the race,” said organising committee secretary Aslam Khan. 
 
 The toughest route was near the Islam Nagar village. “It was really a tough route owing to the presence of stones and slushy land,” said Kaif after winning the trophy. In the petrol category, Mohd Tayyab and Ajeet Singh came second, while Saud Shahab and Waqar Ali were the runners-up. In the diesel category, Aamir Al Rashid and Ateeb Mohd came second. In the same category, Aquib Khan and Umar Aman were the second runners-up. 
 
 The chief guest at the prize distribution ceremony, leader of opposition Ajay Singh distributed prizes to the winners. On the occasion, it was announced that the rally will be organised annually. Additional chief secretary SR Mohanty, divisional commandant (homeguards) Kamlendra Parihar and others were present.
 
 
