GURUGRAM: With its seemingly infinite capacity for ‘jugaad’, India boggles the mind in the array of travel and commuting options it offers every citizen. From the quaint city trams and sturdy Ambassador of yesteryear, to the humble ‘rick’ and make-do jalopies of all shapes and sizes, this place is home to every type of transport.

 A desire to tell the story of transport in India was what led to the setting up of the   (on the Bilaspur-Taoru road, a little way off NH-8), which opened just over three years back. Now, for the first time in its history, the   has released a set of  , ‘Means of transport through the ages’, which beautifully captures the history of transportation in the country.
 
 In its endeavour, the department has found a willing partner in the Heritage Transport Museum, which displays all ways and means of getting from here to there, alternatives that are big and small, quirky and utilitarian, basic and swanky, colourful and minimalistic, vintage and space age.
 
 The philatelic collection chronicles the changes that have taken place in India over the years, in the modes of transportation. It has, altogether, 20 postage stamps, each attractively presented in the form of miniature sheets, in a prestige booklet (issued for the first time) and mixed   sheetlets.
 
 The series includes a set of four stamps each on palanquins, animal-steered carriages and carts, rickshaws and classic automobiles, and a mixed set of four stamps on public transport showcasing buses, a tram and the metro. The inspiration for these 20 stamps has come from the models, archetypes and artwork so excitingly (and nostalgically) displayed at the museum.
 
 The stamps were presented by Kalpana Rajsinghot, postmaster general, Gurgaon Region (Haryana Circle). “These commemorative stamps have been very well received by all and have already started running out from the philatelic bureaus across the country,” shared Tarun Thakral, founder and managing trustee, Heritage Transportation Trust.
 
 
