PATNA: Cracks have appeared in the ruling   (GA) over seat-sharing for the state legislative council election with the Congress on Saturday fielding its candidates in two of the four seats where nominees of ally RJD are already in fray.
 
  The four council seats going to the polls on March 9 are Gaya Graduates’ constituency,  , Saran Graduates’ constituency and Kosi Teachers’ constituency.
  
  A day after RJD chief   announced that the RJD and JD(U) have equally distributed the four council seats among themselves and that no seat was left to offer to the Congress, state Congress president   on Saturday said his party would contest two of the four council seats, i.e. Gaya Graduates’ constituency and and the Gaya Teachers’ constituency.
  
  “Former MLC Ajay Kumar Singh, who unsuccessfully contested the last council polls, will be the Congress candidate from the Gaya Graduates’ seat while former Buxar MLA Hridaya Narayan Singh Yadav will be the party candidate from the Gaya Teachers’ constituency,” Choudhary told reporters. He said the two Congress candidates would file their nomination papers at the Gaya divisional commissioner’s office on February 20, the last date for filing of the nomination papers.
  
  Lalu has already announced his party candidates for the two seats. While Punit Kumar Singh, son of former minister Jagdanand Singh, is the RJD’s official nominee for the Gaya Graduates’ seat, Dinesh Kumar Yadav, a Jehanabad teacher, would contest from the Gaya Teachers’ seat.
  
  Announcing the names of the Congress candidates, Choudhary said the party always wanted to have a dialogue with RJD and JD (U) in this regard, but it did not materialise. “We have decided to field candidates on two of the four council seats as per the directive of senior party functionaries,” he added.
  
  Choudhary, who is also the education and information technology minister in the Nitish government denied any rift among the GA partners on the issue. “There is no rift in the GA. RJD chief Lalu Prasad is our guardian while JD(U) president Nitish Kumar is leading the coalition government. No confusion exists among us,” he added.
  
  “The council polls are entirely different from the general election. Since council polls are candidate-based and our candidates have been making preparations for the last 8 months, we decided to contest the election. It will be a friendly contest,” Choudhary said, adding that all the three parties of the GA want growth in the number of their members in the council.
