Their feet might be in Manipur (in Imphal, to be precise) but on 17 April, 27 men and women (and a child) will have London on their mind, as they embark on an epic — and old-fashioned — road tour.

 ‘Adventures Overland’, a Gurgaon-based niche travel outfit that specialises in cross-border road trips, is organising the ‘Road to London’ expedition, a 49-day journey that will cover 16,000 kilometres, crossing 18 countries in a convoy of 13 SUVs. The 27 journeyers are expected to reach London on June 3.
 
 Behind ‘Adventures Overland’ are  , 36, and Sanjay Madan, 41. And this is easily their biggest trip yet. Earlier in 2017, they led an expedition to Russia, a journey from Moscow to   that involved driving over frozen lakes. And in November 2015, on a trip to Iceland, the duo and their fellow travellers attempted to negotiate, on wheels, Europe’s second largest glacier.
 
 Besides, all their expeditions have earned them an entry in the Limca Book of Records. Because for Agarwal and Madan, there has to be a ‘wow’ factor to each journey. “These are places where people would think it’s not possible to go on your own,” Agarwal told TOI.
 
 Unsurprisingly, half of those on the way to London are return expeditioners. “It’s like a bug – people keep on coming back, because they’ve got a taste for the trips,” he adds.
 
 Back in September 2013, the duo set out on a round-the-world odyssey, a 90,000-km road trip embracing 50 countries and six continents. Their peregrinations, subliminally inspired by Jules Verne, got them into the Guinness Book of World Records, for the longest journey on road in a single country (17,107 km in Australia, between November 25 and December 22, 2013).
 
 Clearly, these guys were born to be road trippers. “We started out of a love and passion for travel, and we’re now sharing those joys with our clients,” says Madan. And in their endeavour to present their clients with unique experiences every time, they make sure no logistical detail is left out, no corners cut.
 
 “Our travellers feel comfortable because we take care of each and every thing,” says Madan. “We care for them like they’re family.
 
 “They come to us again and again because we are always trying to deliver more than their expectations.” Among those headed to London are five couples and three single women, besides a 72-year-old man and his nine-year-old granddaughter, respectively the oldest and youngest members of the party.
 
 There’s no disguising the enthusiasm Agarwal and Madan feel for these journeys that span countries and continents, and that leave every traveller with a sense of wonder. “Travel excites us because from the inside, we’re all nomads,” believes Madan.
 
 Later this year, there’s a trip to Antarctica planned, the first such Indian expedition to the  . Over two weeks, Agarwal and Madan will lead a group of seven adventurers across 1,200 kilometres of frozen waste. But knowing them, it will be just one more enriching experience in the journey that is life.
 
 
