NEW DELHI: Veteran lawyer   has advised Calcutta high court’s  , who has been issued a bailable warrant for contempt of the Supreme Court, to withdraw his “lunatic” charges against judges and judiciary and tender an unconditional apology.

 The 93-year-old has written a letter to Justice Karnan, who has been levelling unfounded and wild allegations against sitting and retired judges for nearly a year, culminating in contempt of court proceedings against him by the Supreme Court.
 
 His failure to respond to the summons made a seven-judge Supreme Court bench issue a bailable arrest warrant against him.
 
 Jethmalani said there was no escape route for Justice Karnan from contempt proceedings even if he took lunacy as a ground for defence.
 
 “I am sorry to tell you that I am convinced you have lost your mind. Your behaviour is that of a lunatic and some day that may be the only defence available to you though with no bright chance of success,”   said and promised to put some sense into the judge’s head if he chose to meet him.
 
 “As a senior member of the bar and living in the departure lounge of God’s airport, I am advising you to withdraw every word that you have uttered and humbly pray for pardon for every stupid action you have so far indulged in. If you do not know the enormity of your madness, do meet me and I might put some sense in your head,” he said.
 
 Instead of appearing before the apex court, Justice Karnan defied the summons and wrote to the Supreme Court registrar general requesting transfer of his case to   or postponement of the hearing till the present CJI retires. The SC rejected the request.
 
 Justice Karnan alleged that he was being targeted because he was a Dalit. Without giving any instance of his past work, Jethmalani said, “As a lawyer, I have worked all my life for the backward classes and I have great concern and sympathy for them. But you are out to cause the greatest damage to their interests. Please listen to the sensible advice of an old man.”
 
 Justice Karnan faces the prospect of setting the dubious distinction of being the first HC judge to be arrested and produced before the SC on March 31.
 
