CHANDIGARH: The special investigation team (SIT) has arrested the information and technology (IT) head of Dera Sacha Sauda, whose chief   Ram Rahim Singh is undergoing 20 years imprisonment in two rape cases, for allegedly tampering with computers at the sect’s headquarters ahead of a search by the authorities.

 Sources said   was arrested from   on Tuesday and 60 hard disks, including one with footage of the sect chief’s movement on August 25 from Sirsa to Panchkula for the pronouncement of the verdict in the rape case against him, seized from his possession.
 
 Sirsa superintendent of police (SP) Ashvin   said Sethi was also a member of the dera’s managing committee. “He had destroyed crucial records related to the dera head’s movement on August 25 and the presence of key persons in the dera. He was also involved in the violence that broke out in Sirsa after his (Gurmeet’s) conviction,” said Shenvi.
 
 Agency reports quoted Shenvi as saying that the dera authorities had changed several hard disks before the search operation at its headquarters in Sirsa. He said the computers of the dera were tampered with and hard disks removed or altered before the sect’s headquarters in Sirsa were searched under the supervision of a commissioner appointed by the Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
 Sethi was summoned by police for questioning at Sirsa on Tuesday after he was evasive in his replies on the computer cell of the dera, he said.
 
 Meanwhile, police also arrested  , the driver of Lexus SUV car belonging to the dera that was torched near Phulkan village on August 28, the day the sect chief was sentenced to 20 years of imprisonment for rape, the officer said. Singh was arrested from Rajasthan, he said, adding that he had been booked for causing damage and destroying evidence.
 
 Police also arrested Bhag Singh, a member of the dera, from Ambala on Wednesday and seized Rs 14 lakh from him. 
 
 Secret tunnels, including one which linked jailed Gurmeet’s plush residence with female disciples’ hostel, an empty box of AK-47 cartridges, an illegal firecracker factory were detected during the dera’s serach recently. The sanitization exercise of the dera was conducted two weeks after Gurmeet was convicted and jailed by a special CBI court for raping two disciples.
 
 
