BENGALURU: It's been almost three weeks since the Goods and   (GST) became a reality, but the   is yet to fulfil its promise of reimbursing taxes collected on Kannada movie tickets.

 This is in contrast with the  , which has provided rebate to local language films, including Bengali, Nepali and Santhali. “We thought the Karnataka government was more supportive of the local language and culture than any other state. But, it is yet to keep its promise,“ said S V Rajendra Singh Babu, filmmaker and chairman,  .
 
 Until the GST regime kicked in on July 1, Kannada films enjoyed taxfree benefit. Now, a film ticket up to Rs100 attracts 18% GST. For tickets costing above Rs100, the levy is 28%.
 
 In West Bengal, local movies were taxed at 2% and moviegoers had to pay 30% tax for other language films before GST. On July 6, the West Bengal government passed an order giving 7% rebate to local language films if the ticket price is less than Rs 100 and 12% if it's above Rs 100. “We expect a similar move from the Karnataka government, too,“ said Sa Ra Govindu, president, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce.
 
 A month before the GST rollout, chief minister Siddaramaiah had announced that his government would reimburse the GST component levied by the state. Babu said a delegation of the film fraternity would meet the CM next week.
 
 Sources said the government was committed to its promise. “We are examining the legal and financial implications of the proposal. It may take some time for us to arrive at a conclusion,“ said an official in the finance department.
 
 Tax experts suggest that the government consider a system, where the GST paid is refunded to the film producer in the form of an incentive, on the lines of incentives paid to small-scale industries. “It shouldn't be a tax rebate as such, in which case the film producer would not be eligible for tax credit.The government should refund the GST via an incentive so that the producer can claim input credit for the tax he has paid on various services during film production,“ said Vivek Mallya, a chartered accountant and expert in indirect taxes.
 
 Mallya pointed out that instead of giving tax exemption through the finance department, it would be better to pay incentives through the department of information and public relations (I&PR).
 
 “The government is in the process of studying all the suggestions.We will convene a meeting of all stakeholders shortly,“ said N R Vishukumar, director of I&PR.
 
 
 
 
 While the new tax structure has come as a body blow to Kannada films, other language movies such as Hindi, Tamil and Telugu are enjoying its benefits since they were taxed at 45% earlier. The Hindi movie Jagga Jasoos has reportedly grossed Rs 3.7 crore in Karnataka in five days after it hit the screens. The film Mom is learnt to have collected Rs 3 crore in 10 days.Ondu Motteya Kathe, the most successful Kannada film released in the GST regime, could cross Rs 2.5 crore. Its producer, Pawan Kumar, said the numbers are still being ascertained.
 
 
