KOLKATA: Two-and-a-half years after  , a 30-year-old Uluberia local, was killed at the   hostel, his widow Arjina Begum is still grappling to come to terms with life. Korban, reportedly branded a thief, was found with his limp body tied to a pillar on the third floor of the hostel. Arjina was pregnant at the time. 

 So now there is a two-and-a-half year-old toddler, an added burden on Arjina and her five children. They live in a ready-to-cave-in mud hut, held together with plastics and scrap, with her mother, next to the highway at Uluberia's Banitala Shahpara. Her former house is not too far away. But after Korpan's death, she had to continuously ward off sexual advances by neighbours.
 
 Arjina did not fully realise, for about a month, how vulnerable her situation was despite the loss of the only earning member of the family. Some money and food kept coming to her from political parties who tried to get mileage out of her situation and their benefaction. Right from Uluberia MP   to Congress state president Adhir Chowdhury, and from CPM MLA Sujan Chakraborty to Uluberia (east) MP and deputy speaker at the assembly, H A Safi, everyone was seen at her door, ready to aid the helpless woman and her children. She was even promised a job at the Uluberia municipality by local councillor Sheikh Kochan.
 
 But no one comes to her now. Her repeated visits to the municipality to follow up on her job have gone in vain. Ultimately, she is a mother and has to feed the innocent children. Her eldest two kids, who are now 14 and 12 respectively, have been sent off to learn tailoring at Andul. "They are given food there and also earn and send me some money," she says, looking downcast. "I know they are under-age, but I have no choice. I have to keep these other four alive. No one needs domestic help here, we are all poor..." her voice trails off.
 
 Finally, some women of the village, all zari workers, suggested she learns the art so that she can start earning some on her own. They took her to the   and explained her situation to the office-bearers because she needed financial help to set up a frame (dhadda) on which to work. She also needed free training. "We knew about her situation and had given her financial assistance to file the FIR when the incident happened but thereafter, like the others, we too had forgotten about her. But when her neighbours brought her to us, we took a resolution to adopt her, give her a fixed monthly allowance, set up a free frame at her house, and train her," said Kaji Nawab Ali, president of the union. Till Arjina starts getting orders on her own, a monthly allowance of Rs 2,000 is being paid to her against odd jobs that are passed on to her. 
 
 "I am trying as much as I can and am working at least eight hours, timed such so it doesn't clash with the time when the children are awake. I neither have the money nor the energy to follow up on the case. I have given up hope. Let Allah decide," says Arjina.
 
 MP Sultan Ahmed sounded remorseful. "Yes, I remember her case well. I thought she was being cared for. I will try my best to take up her issue once again and try to get her some compensation from the state," he said.
 
 
