Against the 1.15 lakh seats that were filled under the   quota in the state last year, the number has gone up to 1.3 lakh for 2017-18. Although the start of the application process has been delayed by more than a month, officials said that the revised system eliminates duplication of applications. 

 Project director for SSA, Karnataka, PC Jaffer told TOI, “The system was working fine on our internal servers. Once the technical glitches were brought to our notice, they were rectified immediately.”
 
 “On the whole, more than 28,000 applications were processed using the Aadhar system by 4pm on Wednesday,” Jaffer added.
 
 However, non-availability of the RTE link led to chaos at many BEOs. General secretary of the RTE Students and Parents Association BN Yogananda said, “While the link didn’t open on some systems, the   wasn’t being generated in a few other cases.”
 
 In a bid to prevent duplication of applications – a huge problem last year – the education department made Aadhar numbers mandatory for the enrolment process under the RTE quota.
 
 Jaffer said that the class to which a child is seeking admission is fixed based on his or her date of birth, which is verified through the Aadhar card. “The pin-code of the student too can be verified in real time, since the demographic details of the parent or guardian is also available with us,” he said at a press conference on Monday.
 
 A test link was uploaded on the website a week in advance by the education department. However, the delay in uploading the original link added to the confusion on Wednesday. “Officials were directed to start the application process on the test link, since it served the purpose. We wanted to make the original link available at 12pm. But it was delayed owing to server errors,” Jaffer said.
 
 The forms can be filled at the BEOs and the office of the deputy director of public instruction (DDPI), where the students’ finger prints are verified. On the other hand, parents can opt to complete the application process through remote access, wherein they can log onto the website on any computer or smartphone, and generate the application.
 
 OfficialSpeak
 
 The systems have been working normally. Although we experienced some problems with the network that was slow, no BEO complained of major problems.
 
 - Abdul Wajid Khaji | DDPI, Bengaluru North
 
 There were some issues reported with the Aadhar numbers of parents and children. There were discrepancies in the address mentioned on the Aadhar card, and their current address. This caused a few problems. But the process will hopefully run smoothly on Thursday.
 
 - Ashwath Narayana Gowda | DDPI, Bengaluru South
 
 Hike in RTE reimbursement
 
 The Karnataka cabinet on Wednesday increased the sum allotted under RTE reimbursement for each student. While the amount has been increased from Rs 11,848 to Rs 16,000 for a class I student, the sum has been hiked to Rs 8,000 from Rs 5,294 for a LKG student. “The decision to hike the amount has been taken in view of demands from private unaided schools. For the academic year 2017-18, the overall expenditure on RTE reimbursement will be around Rs 425 crore. Karnataka is one of the few states in the country to have implemented RTS to help poor children get access to quality education,” said law minister TB Jayachandra.
 
