 Bareilly: “I can work as a labourer if nothing else works out,” says the 14-year-old mother, who has been referred to as a minor rape survivor and has no clue about Mother’s Day, which is today. Villagers asked her to marry her rapist, some offered her money to give away the baby, her brothers turned against her and left home, because they were too embarrassed of her and her newborn son. She then learnt how to ignore taunts and brickbats from the society, family and neighbours. “My life now revolves around my child. I have learnt to ignore comments and prefer to stay at home with my boy,” the smiling teenage mother says.   The 14-year-old rape survivor had made several desperate rounds of the courts, district hospital and police stations insisting that she does not want to give birth. After she lost the legal battle to terminate her pregnancy, the teenager was forced to give birth in October last year. She was offered lakhs of rupees to give away the baby, but by then she was overcome with motherly affection.    The teen mother, who is also battling financial trouble and health issues apart from social stigma, told TOI, “I will work to sustain my child. People had offered me money to give away my boy for adoption and most of them could have given him a better future but I could not part from my baby.” The teenager, while flapping a hand fan over the boy, said, “Though I was initially not prepared for motherhood, the circumstances have taught me on how to tend my baby. If my child takes ill, I stay awake all night to ensure that he is all right.”    While her parents have been a constant support for her, who provided for her all through the ordeal, some in her family do not share the same emotion. The girl has been living with her parents and younger siblings in Bairamnagar village under Shergarh police station of Bareilly. After the village learnt about her pregnancy, they made their lives miserable by insulting and threatening them regularly. “I also had to face opposition from two of my elder brothers who left home after he was born. My brothers are embarrassed of my innocent child,” she said.    She was employed as a cook at Asif Khan’s place, who allegedly raped her on the pretext of marriage. Asif is now out on bail. “The villagers want me to marry Asif to save him from the punishment. But my father has made it clear that we will only follow the court’s orders. I want Asif to bear the expenses of the child so that I can give him a decent life. My father who is a daily-wage earner and the sole breadwinner in the family has already nine mouths to feed,” she said.    Advocate V P Dhyani who is representing the girl’s family in the court said, “There is no government policy of rehabilitation and compensation for such rape survivors and their children.”    Her family learnt about the rape late and lodged an FIR on June 7, 2016. Her medical report stated that she was 19 weeks and six days pregnant​ at that time. The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act did not allow her to terminate her advanced pregnancy. Since then, the family had campaigned​ relentlessly albeit​ ​unsuccessfully to abort the fetus. She had asked, “Who will raise the baby.” The girl went on to deliver in an ambulance in October last year on her way to the district hospital. Now, she is taking care of the eight-month-old, despite everything.