CHENNAI: The election code of conduct is no match for VIP privileges in poll-bound R   as was witnessed in the constituency on Thursday . An AIADMK MLA forced his way out of a vehicle inspection on Thursday after a surveillance team discovered wads of currencies on his associates.
Sirkazhi MLA P V  , who is part of the TTV Dhinakaran faction, was travelling in the vehicle, an SUV bearing the registration TN 09 BF 8805. A static surveillance team on Thiruvottiyur High Road, near the Communicable Diseases Hospital in  , flagged down the car for inspection when the incident unfolded. The team comprising a revenue department officer, a police sub-inspector and four armed guards from the   (CISF), opened the doors to the vehicle, whose pas sengers included the MLA, his two associates and the driver.
 
 As the revenue officer spotted one of the MLA's associates carrying a wad of cash in his shirt pocket, he asked him to take it out and count the bundle. Irritated by the officer's request, the associate dropped the bundle on a writing pad held by the officer and urged him to count it himself.He went a step further and asked the officer to “keep the cash“. While the stunned official tried to calm the party worker, a CISF guard attempted to frisk the MLA. Bharat hi, who was offended by the guard's actions, said, “How dare you touch me? I am an MLA.“ He then turned to the revenue official and threatened dire consequences if the team did not let him leave. Before things could get out of hand, the election official ac quiesced to the MLA's demands and allowed him to leave. Within a moment, the car fled out of sight. “I will report this incident to the (election) commission,“ the officer told TOI. The CISF guard, who frisked the MLA, told TOI that he felt a bundle of cash on the MLA. “He certainly had cash on him. We don't need to respect or fear him because he is an MLA. We would have seized his vehicle had the officer asked us,“ said the visibly annoyed guard.
 
 Bharathi questioned the grounds on which he was frisked. “There is no provision for frisking (under ECI rules). If they had found cash bags in my vehicle, then I would understand. Since that wasn't the case, it was disrespectful of the (CISF) guard to frisk me. I am an MLA,“ he said. When the incident was explained to District Election Officer,  , he said, “We will inform and instruct our staff accordingly .“ Shortly after the incident,   flagged off 70 teams of mobile micro observers for monitoring small lanes
 
