PUNE: Voting in the municipal election is a mere two days away, and Pune’s political landscape is abuzz with machiavellian manoeuvring among candidates, sometimes against others of their own party.

 After breathing fire on a hectic campaign trail, candidates are busy holding late-night meetings to maximize their gains from the February 21 election.
 
 Voters will elect four corporators from each ward, and parties have fielded four candidates each in almost all the wards. Candidates belonging to the same party have campaigned together, but in several instances, candidates joined hands with those from a rival party for mutual benefit. 
 
 For instance, for a high-profile battle in a midcity area, the   fielded four candidates for the ‘A’, ‘B’, ‘C’ and ‘D’ seats. A faction within the BJP, in order ensure defeat for their ‘B’ candidate, joined hands with the Congress candidate for the same seat. In a quid pro quo, the BJP faction promised to divert BJP votes to the Congress ‘B’ candidate in return for helping BJP’s ‘A’, ‘C’ and ‘D’ candidates win. Since the ward is a BJP stronghold, it was a no-brainer for the Congress candidate. 
 
 “This is nothing new. We are not considering closely-contested seats. The backdoor dealing is only for those seats which we are sure to lose or win. If we are certain to lose a particular seat, why waste those votes? We can use them to help other parties’ candidates and strike a deal for another ward where they can help us win,” said a BJP leader. 
 
 In certain wards, NCP and BJP candidates are in talks to support each other, in a bid to keep   out of the contest. Meanwhile, in fringe areas, Sena is helping NCP keep BJP from victory. “As of now, all parties and candidates have a fair idea of their odds. Crossvoting is going to be important in this election,” said a Congress corporator who is seeking another term. In his ward, the corporator is seeking RSS and BJP votes and in return, promised to help the BJP candidate against NCP’s candidate on another seat in the same ward. Interestingly, NCP and   are allied in this ward. 
 
 Complaints are already pouring from candidates that their fellow candidates in the same ward have not been supporting them and instead, are coordinating with their opponents. “The number of complaints will only increase, but the state leadership of all the parties is aware of such deals and so, no action will be taken unless it is a serious lapse,” an NCP leader said.
 
 Parties have also wooed independent candidates, trying to talk them into throwing their weight behind their candidates. Independents cannot officially withdraw at this time, but they can endorse an establishment candidate saying they don’t wish to contest anymore. Parties are luring independents with positions and other ‘gifts’. In some places, independents have been assured that they will be co-opted as a corporator.
 
 “Politics is beyond the common public’s understanding,” said Baba Thorat, a professional, adding: “There is so much political manoeuvring happening behind the scenes, and voters are not even aware of this. Politicians deceive voters by making false promises, and also by making political deals and adjustments. Dishonesty in politics is one of the reasons why people don’t want to come out and vote.” 
 
 
