BHOPAL: It’s evident Salim doesn’t like the clock ticking. He waits impatiently as the minutes go by. He has got an  . A snake, possibly a cobra, is on the loose in a hostel and here he is, sitting on his haunches and waiting for a ride.

 For the umpteenth time, he checks out his equipment — if you can call it that. An iron rod and a couple of glass jars. Satisfied, he is looking at his watch again when he hears a car pull up. He runs outside and the car sets off. The adventure is on.
 
 In a few minutes, Salim finds himself at Tagore hostel. He makes eye contact with a bunch of terrified staff, and nods at them. One of them steps forward gingerly to guide him towards the  .
 
 Within seconds, Salim gets into combat mode. He heard the reptile before he spotted it. There’s no way you can miss the hiss. It chills your bones.
 
 It’s a four-foot-cobra, perhaps a juvenile. All the more dangerous because they are — like all teenagers — aggressive and can’t control their hormones, or in this case, venom. As Salim closes in, the cobra hisses menacingly. Slowly, keeping his eyes on the snake, Salim inches closer. His eyes dart around the room — often, when there is one cobra, there’s another.
 
 It’s just the one. Salim reaches out with his rod and in a split second, pins the cobra’s head as it twists and coils. He grabs the tail of the snake, and holds it upside down. The cobra tries to climb up on itself and lunges at him, but Salim is the man in charge. Salim walks out holding the snake. You can almost hear the sigh of relief as staff and onlookers find their breath. Soon cellphones are out to capture the moment. No close-up selfies, though. The photo session over, Salim directs the snake into the jar. As soon as the cobra slithers in, Salim screws the cap shut. You can feel your skin prickle up as the snake twists and hisses in the jar.
 
 “I’ll release it in Van Vihar on Saturday,” says Salim.
 
 It’s all in a day’s work for the snake-catcher. Monsoon is the busiest season for him, and he quite happily agrees. He often rescues eight to 10 snakes on a day, and it’s a rare day that he doesn’t get a call. They are everywhere — on lawns, in cars and porches, coiling up walls and dangling from trees in gardens.
 
 “I have been catching snakes for 30 years, and have rescued more than 2.22 lakh so far,” says Salim even as another SOS comes in, from 74 Bungalow area.
 
 Where do most of the calls come from? Char Imli, BHEL, Kolar, Karond, Ratibad and Bairagarh, he says. “Sometimes there are so many that it becomes difficult to reach everywhere at the same time.”
 
 And how dangerous is it? Salim replied with a smile, “I have been bitten four times by cobras and was admitted to the ICU every time.” As the vehicle stops at the next destination, the snake catcher jumps out, ready for action.
 
 “I do get the goosebumps even now,” he says. “I love the thrill. You don’t know what’s around the corner. A Russell’s viper or a cobra?” he says.
 
 It turns out to be a six-foot cobra, coiled near an air-cooler. This is 12th cobra from the house of Santosh Sharma, an office secretary at biodiversity department, says Salim. “In the last 10 days, I have rescued 11 cobras from this house, and this is the 12th,” he says, as the cobra begins to hiss. This reptile does not let Salim have it easy. The moment he catches it, it coils around his arm. Salim tightens his grip on its head, the snake tightens its coils. It’s almost heart-stopping for those watching. As for Salim, he doesn’t break a sweat.
 
 It takes almost 10 minutes for Salim to unwind the snake from his arm, and put in a jar. “Risking my life has become a habit,” he says, adding: “My heart was racing there, a bit.” After a pause, he says: “While catching a snake, there is a connect. I can feel it. I try to tell the snake that it I won’t harm it. I can’t describe it in words, but at some moment, both of us feel a connect.”
 
 Salim may shrug off the risk but for his family, it’s a daily roller coaster. He lives with his wife, six daughters and a son near TT Nagar stadium. Every morning, his daughters plead with him to quit catching snakes, but Salim smiles and brushes them off. Every day, as he sets out, his wife Shahin Banu prays.
 
 Salim is not the only one. Shahid Ali, another snake catcher, is pushing 60 and has been catching snakes for 40 years. “I will continue rescuing snakes till my last breath,” said Ali.
 
 While talking to TOI, he gets a call from Hamilton Court Colony about a snake. He asks them not to let the snake out of their sight and rushes over. It turns out to be a python. A 4-footer at that.
 
 Alok Chandra Gaur, the house owner, says: “When I went to pick up my car keys I saw a snake in the container. It was shocking. Utterly terrifying.” Shahid has no problem grabbing the snake. It’s an easy day or him. They don’t come very often.
 
 
