AGRA: A day after TOI expose on the rampant cheating in UP during board exams,   deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who holds the education portfolio, on Saturday asserted that “all is well as far as the ongoing Uttar Pradesh board examinations are concerned.” But the minister's reported statement flies in the face of the fact that just in Mainpuri, 27 schools have been recommended for blacklisting for rampant cheating.

 This was apart from the 11 schools in Mathura, 13 in Aligarh and 4 in Hathras district that have been marked out for allowing cheating during the ongoing board exams.
 
 Dinesh Sharma made the assertion after making surprise inspections at three examination centres in Lucknow and in neighbouring Barabanki district in the wake of reports of mass copying in the board examinations. "I conducted surprise inspections at three colleges, where students were appearing for the UP Board examinations. As far as conducting the examinations is concerned, I am satisfied," the minister told a news agency.
 
 Notwithstanding the minster’s claim of all being well with the UP board, Mainpuri district authorities have recommended 27 schools -- 11 in Kishni, and four each from Kurawali, Bhogaon, Karhal and Ghiror – to be blacklisted for allowing cheating. An FIR has also been registered against 13 people, including five centre superintendents, seven class invigilators and one clerk.
 
 In fact, Ghiror SDM   himself did a “sting operation” in one of the colleges in his area and found “mass cheating” underway.
 
 Talking to TOI, Singh said he had received reports about rampant cheating at Raja Ram Inter College but whenever he went in his car, he never found anything amiss, convincing him that the cheating mafia was being tipped off about his movements. Incidentally in its exclusive report on Friday, TOI had mentioned how spotters had been deployed by the cheating mafia on the roads leading to the exam centres for advanced information about the movement of officials and any other "suspicious" person. 
 
 Singh said he then decided to go to the centre as a common person and arrived there on a motorcycle. He said what he saw surprised him as many students who had paid money for cheating were sitting in one classroom. However, when the school authorities learnt about his presence, panic spread and students started running back to the room where seats were allocated to them according to their roll numbers, he revealed.
 
 Singh said to his utter surprise when he checked the answer sheets, they all had the same answers written on them, clearly indicating mass cheating. 
 Talking to TOI, Mathura district inspector of schools (DIOS)   said 38 colleges have been issued notices for alleged incidents of cheating and over 55 students have been caught indulging in it. He said an FIR has also been registered against a class superintendent of Shivcharan Inter College, Mathura. Solanki said recommendations for blacklisting of 11 colleges, including Bihari Lal Inter College, Farah and Karen Singh Inter College, Mathura, has been sent, as they have been found guilty of allowing mass cheating. 
 
 Hathras DIOS Jitendra Kumar said four centres have been recommended for blacklisting and four students have been caught for cheating. He said an FIR has also been registered against four people, including two students, for impersonation, and a centre superintendent.
 
