AURANGABAD: Not relying blindly on the Beed police, the city police’s crime branch has decided to independently cross check each and every aspect of the robbery of Rs one crore demonetised notes. They are looking closely into   cooking up the seizure and recovery of the notes.

 The crime branch sleuths are verifying Beed police’s claims about Rs 5.5 lakh of demonetised notes being burnt by one of the accused’s spouse. While probing the recovery of Rs 95 lakh by the Beed police in scrapped notes, the city police has found that the whole story about cash seizure was cooked up to save head constable   alias Thapa.
 
 The crime branch registered a case of dacoity against five suspects on March 6 and arrested them. The suspects are Shaikh Fazal Yusuf (24), Khan Zameer Jaleel (36), Shaikh Shezad alias Saddam Riyaz (24), Abdul Sajed alias Uncle (25) and   (34). During their interrogation, the accused revealed about Thapa’s alleged role in the entire incident, following which he was arrested on the evening of February 7. The arrested accused are currently undergoing their extended police custody.
 
 According to the probe, the stolen cash was taken Sajed’s house, from where Thapa collected it on February 22 and kept it at his house in the city. After realising that he would be in trouble, Thapa contacted API Tejankar, who intercepted a car on the night of February 24 and recovered Rs 9.5 lakh in scrapped notes from Zameer. 
 
 “Tejankar in connivance with Thapa recorded bogus panchnama and showed false recovery of money from the houses of three accused in the city and even photographed them,” said a crime branch official.
 
 Days after TOI published the story, Beed police falsely claimed that they recovered demonetised notes of Rs 40 lakh from Fazal, Rs 30 lakh from Saddam and Rs 14.5 lakh from Sajed. They further added that Sajed’s wife, fearing arrest, burned Rs 5 lakh of the looted cash.
 
 Senior crime branch officer told TOI, “Sajed’s father in-law hailing from the neighbouring Jalna district has been summoned to cross check the veracity of the claims made by the Beed police. If he does not turn up, we are going to Jalna to question him. We want to know if Rs 5.5 lakh of scrapped notes were actually burnt or not.”
 
