Coimbatore: Burdened by a severe financial crunch,   commissioner   on Wednesday presented the civic body’s 2017-2018   without any announcement on new plans or big infrastructural projects. 

 Instead, development and revamp of water bodies, canals, solar lighting, waste management, construction of toilets and development of parks got prominence in the budget.
 
 After presenting the budget, Vijayakarthikeyan said, “Apart from all these announcements, we will also make rainwater harvesting structures mandatory to get approval for construction works. We have avoided making empty promises and tried to add projects that will be implemented this year. Most of the projects mentioned in the budget book are either in the tender stage or the files have been sent to the state government. We are hopeful of implementing all that we have promised this year.” 
 
 The projects announced are those that will be taken up using funds drawn from either the state or central government. Under ‘smart city’, the commissioner announced 14 projects at an estimated cost of Rs220 crore. The civic body plans to develop 14 wards located around the eight city lakes in the west, central and south zones of the corporation. 
 
 Under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), the civic body plans to improve water supply in added areas. It has already prepared a detailed project report estimated at Rs 414.50 crore for the purpose. The areas to be covered under the project are Kurichi, Kuniyamuthur, Thudiyalur, Vilankurichi, Chinnavedampatti, Sarvanampatti and Kalapatti. The corporation has earmarked Rs 457 crore for underground drainage in added areas. 
 
 Former   mayor P Rajkumar said, “There is nothing constructive or productive in this budget. It is just a temporary arrangement due to the prevailing political crisis in the state. The corporation is in bad shape financially, which is the main reason for not announcing any major announcements. Earlier, we had several hundred crores of deposits and the investments on those yielded huge revenue. But now we have none. There has been unbalanced expenditure in Thondamuthur constituency alone. Because of lack of funds, all the other projects that were announced could not be implemented.”
 
 Former DMK councillor S M Samy said, “The corporation neither has funds nor completed any projects. No work will take place even this year and the corporation will announce the same projects next year as well.” 
 
 President of   said, “Not even 30% of the projects announced 10 years back have been implemented. The added areas came under the corporation seven years ago. If the civic body is still preparing detailed project reports to be implemented in these areas, it shows lack of commitment and expertise.”
 
