BHOPAL: The famous 2010 Bhopal siege by farmers may be replicated in New Delhi.

 The main architect of the protest, Shiv Kumar Sharma 'Kakkaji', has brought together farmer leaders from different states and plans to hold a meeting in Bhopal on January 11 under the banner of   to work out a strategy.
 
 The farmers, demanding complete waiver of farm loans and implementation of   commission report, plan to choke streets of the national capital in the coming days.
 In 2010, Kakkaji had led thousands of farmers in 13000 tractor trolleys to stage protest in front of chief minister  's residence and brought Bhopal to a standstill for over three days in what was dubbed as 'Operation 20/12' and considered one of the biggest intelligence failures.
 
 A peasant leader with huge backing of agriculturists, Kakkaji has been travelling to different states aiming to bring together powerful leaders under one umbrella to protest against the centre's policies.
 
 "Bhopal is going to host the first meeting of the revolutionary movement. We have already got confirmation from 19 states including one from the north eastern side," said Kakka, a national convenor of Rasthriya Kisan Mahasangh and national president of Rasthriya Kisan Majdoor Sangh. 
 
 "This time there won't be tractors off course. Farmers would reach Delhi using different transportation modes," he said in a lighter vein.
 
 During 2010 Bhopal agitation, local administration, police and the ruling party were taken by surprise as nearly one lakh farmers from all over the state drove tractor-trolleys into Bhopal city. 
 
 They shocked everyone turning their convention into indefinite dharna and road block at prominent locations of the state capital forcing government to accept major 50 demands from 183 within 48 hours. 
 
 Demands included a minimum 12-hour power supply to rural areas, fertilizers, good quality seeds and a substantial return for their produce, water etc. 
 
 This time, district collector had allotted   to Rasthriya Kisan Mahasangh for their convention. But when they came to know that brain behind this convention was Kakkaji, the allotment was cancelled immediately. 
 
 However the organisers were aware of the fact and had got another ground allotted in the city with a change of name in the application," said a member of the organising committee. Meanwhile the local administration has issued a circular that no grounds will be allotted to any organisation till further orders. 
 
 Rasthriya Kisan Mahasangh is hopeful that around 20000 farmers would be present in the meeting along with national presidents of   and Congress Kisan Cell. 
 
 State presidents BSP and SP are also likely to be present. Aam Admi Party (AAP), which allegedly wanted Kakkaji to be their face in Madhya Pradesh, has refused to join the convention. 
 
 "Kakkaji had refused AAP's offer to head their MP unit, but he had refused the offer. Now AAP has refused his invite to the Bhopal meeting," said a Kisan Sangh member.
 
