JAIPUR: Everything is for sale, but they are coming at a ‘price’ for the state’s education sector. Be it project reports, summary files or practical reports, any student can buy them from Chaura Raasta,   or Sitapura in the city to cheat the system.

 With the academic year nearing its end, students as usual are rushing to agents to buy academic reports by paying a hefty sum. Many are copying the same also from the net which goes unnoticed as very few colleges/schools have plagiarism software.
 
 TOI spoke to an agent based in Malaviya Nagar in the guise of an MSW student to make a report on child marriages. He wanted the title or the subject along with the name of the college. After an hour, he called up and demanded Rs 1,500 for a 25-page report.
 
 This is an annual practice which has been going on due to the failure of education institutes to devise methods to stop students from buying project reports. Every student in a college has to submit a project report on any relevant or contemporary subject.
 
 The modus operandi is simple. These agents, who are mostly students or booksellers, already have a number of project reports on different titles ready for ‘customers’. If a report has to be made on an entirely new subject, they will ask the student to paraphrase the content and gather data from the internet.
 
 Raj Dua (name changed), a student from a private college at Hathroi in Jaipur, recently submitted a report purchased from the market. The 40-page report cost him Rs 2,000. His report was trashed by the teacher who could recall similar reports submitted by another student two years ago.
 
 “While going through the report, I could recall having seen the same graphics and tables earlier. I checked the files of students from previous years and found that the same report had been submitted two years ago. The student was given a warning and asked to prepare a fresh report,” said a teacher requesting anonymity.
 
 This is not an isolated incident. The market for such reports is huge and Jaipur is allegedly the main market in the state. Engineering dissertations are among the costliest in this market place.
 
 Sandeep Kumar, RTI activist and an expert on technical education, says that all engineering colleges know that the reports submitted by students are either purchased or copied from the net by students. “The main problem is that students are not taught how to make reports. Teachers only give them deadlines to submit the reports. As these reports have to follow a research methodology and are time consuming, many students opt for short cuts by seeking the help of these agents,” Kumar said.
 
 
