KOLKATA: Former   (ED) assistant director   surrendered before the   on Wednesday in an   lodged against him at the  . He was sent to police custody till May 12.

 Kumar, who hasn’t been able to take up his present posting as assistant commissioner, Central Board of Excise and Customs as he is under suspension, was directed by the Supreme Court on Thursday to surrender before the court within a week.
 
 Kumar, while holding the post of assistant director, ED, was probing the Rose Valley Ponzi scam. Later, Trinamool Congress MPs Tapas Pal and Sudip Bandyopadhyay were arrested by the CBI for their involvement in the scam. Kumar was suspended on January 31 by the ED after the Kolkata Police released CCTV footage in which he was spotted at a New Delhi hotel with Subhra Kundu, wife of Rose Valley chairman Gautam Kundu. 
 
 On February 28, city-based chartered accountant Kamal Somani lodged a complaint at the Shakespeare Sarani police station against one Pradip Hirawat and others alleging that they had extorted lakhs from him. A case was lodged under Sections 384 and 120B against the accused and Hirawat was arrested. Kolkata Police claimed that during interrogation, Hirawat said that he was working on Kumar’s behalf.
 
 The link between Somani and Kumar dates back to March 9, 2016, when RPS Kahlon, then chairman, Kolkata Port Trust and another person were arrested from a star hotel in Kolkata allegedly with Rs 20 lakh in unaccounted cash. During investigation, raids were carried out at 12 locations, including the offices and residential premises of the accused as well as Somani who was Kahlon’s chartered accountant. Kumar was part of the team that carried out a raid at Somani’s residence on May 12, 2016. While the police suspect that Kumar engaged Hirawat to extort money from Somani after the raid, the suspended officer’s lawyer Phiroze Edulji submitted in court on Wednesday that he wasn’t part of the investigation in the Kahlon case but had only participated in the raid. 
 
 Facing arrest, Kumar moved for anticipatory bail in the Calcutta high court and Supreme Court but these were rejected. On Wednesday, in a bid to save Kumar, Edulji told the court: “Not being able to implicate the petitioner of any wrong doing in the Rose Valley scam, the Kolkata Police set up the present complainant to falsely implicate my client who is innocent.” 
 
 Even Kumar said that he is innocent and had been framed by the Kolkata Police while entering the court. After the court remanded Kumar to police custody, his lawyer said: “This is nothing short of entrapment,” even as his client was being taken away by officers of the Shakespeare Sarani police station for further interrogation. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) arrested Abir Kundu, brother-in-law of Gautam Kundu on Tuesday. Abir was director of some Rose Valley group companies and was served a notice to appear before SEBI but he preferred to stay away. A warrant was issued and Abir was remanded to judicial custody. 
 
 
