GUWAHATI: Benazir Arfan, a woman BJP politician from Assam, has been suspended by her party for   about the atrocities committed on the   without taking permission from the party.

 Benazir, who shot into the limelight recently because of her active campaign aginst triple talaq, said her suspension was “arbitrary” as she was not asked for any explanation or called for any disciplinary meeting. The 30-year-old politician said she was served the suspension letter via WhatsApp last Thursday by state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Das.
 
 A civil engineer by profession, Benazir was an executive member of BJP’s Mazdoor Morcha. She had resigned from her government job ahead of the assembly polls last year. She had contested on a BJP ticket from Jania constituency in Barpeta district, but lost.
 
 Benazir said, “Look atthe irony of life. I, being a victim of triple talaq, have been campaigning in support of the Narendra Modi government’s stand against triple talaq. Now my own party, with which I have been associated for many years,has pronouncedthetalaq on me.”
 
 
 A suspension order signed by   said Benazir, without taking permission, appealed through the social media to organize a “hunger strike” against the “problem in Myanmar” successful. “Asthisis againstthe party’s principles and ideals, BJP state president has instructed the suspension and to relieve her of all responsibilitiesof the party,” theorder stated. She was also askedto respondtothe showcause notice served to her in threedays. 
 
 Benazir said the United Minority People’s Forum (UMPF) organized a prayer meeting here on Saturday to express solidarity for the Rohingyas. Her social media post referred to this programme.
 
 “My mistake was that I inadvertently wrote protest instead of prayer meeting. I owned up to my mistake and I think it is a minor error I committed. But I am really saddened by the fact that the party which I served for years did not give me a chance to explain and tender my apology. I got a message on WhatsApp that I have been suspended,” Benazir said, adding that she flagged the  . “Is it a crime to say something about humanity” she added.
 
