PANAJI: A political earthquake is shaking up   as 38-year-old Leo   piles up unassailable support for his   to take over leadership of the ruling   from the long-time prime minister (or Taoiseach) Enda Kenny. Currently the minister for social protection, he will be the youngest leader in party history, and one of the youngest heads of state in the world. But there are other unique factors at play in this story.

 Varadkar’s father is an immigrant from Mumbai, and he’ll become the second serving European leader of Indian origin, alongside Portugal’s (Goan) Antonio Costa. Also, just two years ago, on his 36th birthday, the star campaigner “came out” in public about his homosexuality. Now he will be just the fourth openly gay world leader in history, after Belgium’s Elio Di Rupo, Iceland’s Johanna Sigurdardottir and Luxembourg’s Xavier Bettel. Varadkar plays down both race and sexuality, instead focusing on his evident competence in office. He says, “It’s not something that defines me. I’m not a half-Indian politician, or a doctor politician or a gay politician for that matter. It’s just part of who I am, it doesn’t define me, it is part of my character I suppose.” In fact, his career rise has been meteoric, ever since a very early setback when he lost his first political race for county council (conducted while he was still only 20, and in medical school). In 2003, he made it onto that body, then leaped to the national assembly in 2007. In 2011, his somewhat right-leaning centrist party formed a coalition government, and Varadkar became minister for transport, tourism and sports.
 
 His next assignment as minister of health made Varadkar. He drew widespread praise for assembling a “dream team” of advisers and the brightest political operatives of his generation. Then, crucially, he grew considerably in public esteem by speaking out about his homosexuality even as Ireland headed into a contentious, highly controversial referendum on same-sex marriage. The country became the first in the world to legalize gay marriage by popular vote, with a huge majority of 62% in favour. It was an astonishing result for a society traditionally dominated by the Catholic Church (which stood vehemently opposed to the legislation). The entire process was pure magic for Varadkar, who overnight found himself the preferred spokesman for young, secular, progressive and forward-thinking voters.
 
 Ireland is a country in rapid flux. Its richest citizen by far is actually Bombay-born Parsi tycoon, Pallonji Mistry (the father of former Tata Sons chairman Cyrus Mistry). At the turn of the century the country’s economy was booming so rapidly that it earned the nickname ‘Celtic Tiger’. After 2008, everything crashed into one of the severest depressions in contemporary history. Today it features the youngest population in the European Union, and also the largest emigration rate of any European country. This is a society on the move, where things are changing very fast, which perfectly explains Varadkar’s smooth rise to leadership, even though it has been just two decades since Ireland decriminalized homosexuality.
 
 On this issue, it is true the church itself has recently dramatically shifted positions. The current Pope Francis believes his own institution should apologize for persecuting gays, saying “people should not be defined only by their sexual tendencies: let us not forget that God loves all his creatures”. His right hand man on cultural policy, Mumbai’s cardinal Oswald Gracias has a similar position, saying “people have this orientation that God has given them, and for this reason they should not be ostracized from society”. He is firmly “in favour of decriminalization of Article 377”, the odious British-imposed colonial law that penalizes “intercourse against the order of nature”.
 
 “The public and the media have not actually read Section 377,” says Wendell Rodricks, the acclaimed Goan fashion designer, writer and campaigner for gender equity, “when one reads it in detail, you realize that it makes us all into criminals. Every single person. It is so perverted to peer into bedrooms, to make criminals out of consenting adults who have sex that isn’t necessarily for procreation. Look at   in Ireland. People don’t care about the colour of his skin nor what he does in the bedroom, they judge him for public contribution not his private orientations. India will win the world’s admiration when it takes similarly progressive strides, including amending Section 377 to ensure gender equality. I believe in my country and I am sure that day will come.” 
 
 (The writer is a widely published photographer and columnist. Views expressed are his own).
 
