JAIPUR: With the state law department raising objections over the proposed rules of Rajasthan   (Regulation and Development) Act 2016, the implementation of the law is likely to be delayed.

 The   (UDH) department had framed rules for implementing provisions of Centre's Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016 in the state. Following this, the draft was forwarded to law department for examination. However, the law department has returned the draft stating it should first receive nod from finance department. 
 
 Now, the UDH department is gearing up to send the draft to the finance department. “After seeking suggestions and objections from the public on the rules, the draft was forwarded to the law department. Once, the draft receives nod from the law and finance departments, we would issue the notification regarding implementation of rules,” said a senior UDH official. 
 
 Once the draft is implemented, it would be mandatory for all commercial and residential real estate projects to register with the regulator for launching projects. Also, appellate tribunals will be set up to adjudicate disputes. 
 
 “Punishment up to three years or fine of 10% of the estimated cost of the project can be imposed by the regulatory authorities for non-registration of projects,” informed the official.
 
 The existing practice of selling on the basis of ambiguous super built-up area for a real estate project will come to an end as the new law makes it illegal. Developers will have to define the carpet area. Moreover, it would be mandatory to make the details of the projects online. “Any violation like increase in the size of apartments, change in layout and construction of additional towers in a project without taking consent from 70% of the allottees can lead to cancellation of registration,” said the official.
 
 Similarly, it would be mandatory for the developers to seek no objection certificates (NoCs) from departments which deal with water and sewerage. Procuring environment clearance and NoC from Airport Authority of India (AAI) will be mandatory. “As per the draft of the rules, the developers have to seek NoC from six different departments. At present, they seek permission from the development authority concerned,   (UIT) or urban local body,” said the official.
 
