NEW DELHI: The government refuted reports on Thursday that its action banning Christian charity organisation   had been less than transparent and suggested that the   might have been in violation of the law. 

  Pushing back at a report in the   regarding the matter, the foreign ministry said, "Any NGO, foreign or Indian, is to operate in India, or for that matter anywhere else in the world, within the laws of the country." 
 
  RSS called the NYT report false and said it had not engaged in any back channel negotiations with the NGO and none of its representatives had met the US-based charity. The RSS also insisted it had no representative in any foreign country. "The news published regarding Compassion International's so called 'back channel negotiations with RSS representative in   DC' is unfair and totally false," RSS media head   said. 
 
  Compassion International had been put under prior permission category in May last year following allegations of funding religious conversions, barring it from receiving foreign aid without the government's approval. The NGO will cease its activities in India from March 15. 
 
  The government rejected the contention of lack of transparency saying the matter was one of "law enforcement". MEA spokesman Gopal Baglay said suggestions in the US media about RSS involvement in getting the NGO banned were "completely extraneous" to the matter and it did not affect government decisions. "We have been transparent in this regard, including in our conversations with the concerned authority on the prevalent situation. There have been meetings of government officials and representatives of the NGO." 
 
  Asked to comment on the US state department's acting spokesman  's remarks that over the past couple of years a number of foreign-funded NGOs in India have encountered "significant challenges",   said that there was a well established legal framework for NGOs for conducting their operations in India, which has one of the largest network of NGOs in the world. 
 
  "It's imperative that all parties work transparently and cooperatively in a way that respects India's laws but also encourages a transparent process, and these are views we've made clear to the India," Toner had said during his regular briefing in Washington while commenting on CI closing its India operations. 
 
 
