PATNA: The   on Saturday passed its Rs 833-crore Budget with an opening balance of around Rs 225 crore. 

 A surplus Budget for the fourth consecutive year after deficit Budgets for six consecutive years, this is the last annual Budget of the 2012-17 term of PMC ward councillors. 
 
 However, the civic body’s proposed expenditure of Rs 608 crore for the financial year 2017-18 will exceed its revenue of Rs 536 crore during the period. 
 
 PMC’s chartered accountant Ravinesh Kumar, who was among those who prepared the Budget, explained it thus: The expenditure will exceed the revenue, but it’s a surplus Budget because it will have an opening balance of Rs 225 crore carried forward from the previous year’s closing balance.
 
 To promote environment conservation, the Budget has allotted Rs 13.5 crore for development of parks along with sports facilities in them. It also provides for Rs 15 crore for door-to-door garbage collection. 
 
 The PMC Budget for 2016-17 had only Rs 5 crore for removal of garbage. It had also provided for an additional Rs 20 lakh for a special drive for making the city clean. 
 
 The new Budget focusses on infrastructure development, which includes maintenance and construction of roads (Rs 30 crore), maintenance and construction of drains (Rs 33 crore), drinking water facilities (Rs 13 crore), street lights (Rs 30.75 crore) and construction of market complexes (Rs 13 crore).
 
 A sum of Rs 50 lakh has been allocated for fighting street dog menace. The Budget also provides for Rs 7 crore for construction of seven ‘toran dwars’, or welcome arches.
 
 A sum of Rs 3 crore will be spent on the construction of offices of the PMC’s newly created circles in Pataliputra and Azimabad in 2017-18. Each ward has been allocated Rs 1.1 crore this year as against Rs 1 crore last year for development work.
 
 While presenting the Budget at a meeting of ward councillors and senior PMC officials at a city hotel, Mayor Afzal Imam said the holding tax collection target for 2017-18 is Rs 100 crore, up from Rs 80 crore last finacial year. 
 
 The civic body’s revenue during the year 2017-18 will include Rs 1.5 crore from advertisement taxes, Rs 2 crore from mobile towers, Rs 6.61 crore from rents and Rs 93.22 crore from stamp duty and other sources.
 
 “This year we will pay special attention on our expenditures so as to reduce the closing balance,” PMC commissioner Abhishek Singh told TOI. 
 
 The Budget was approved in less than 30 minutes even as four of the 72 ward councillors walked out of the meeting in protest against alleged denial of a copy of the Budget prior to the meeting on Saturday.
 
 Get certs through this app: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday launched an e-municipality mobile app on Saturday. The app, which can be used on a smart phone, has facilities for residents to apply for birth certificates, death certificates and map approvals as well as file RTI applications without visiting any PMC establishment. “We will add more features in this app,” PMC commissioner Abhishek Singh told TOI.
 
 
