NAGPUR: Medical superintendent of a hospital in New Koradi sustained serious injuries after he was thrashed on Saturday following a complaint by a woman patient attendant, accusing him of  . The woman, along with her husband, brother and two others, were booked by Koradi police for assault. The medical superintendent, who was assaulted on the hospital premises, too was slapped with offences of sexual harassment. 

 Dr Sanjay Bhajipale (37), now admitted to the hospital where he works, sustained injuries after being assaulted by  , an operation theatre attendant, along with his kin   and an unidentified person.   is the husband of the patient attendant who had charged Bhajipale with making undue advances towards her frequently. The survivor claimed before the police that Bhajipale grabbed her by shoulder in the outdoor patient department (OPD). The survivor has been working as patient attendant for the last three months. The hospital caters to the employees of a state-run corporation.
 
 After being outraged by the doctor, she alerted her husband. A miffed Dhaporkar, in turn, called Mandal and others to join him at the hospital to teach the doctor a lesson. After Mandal and his accomplice joined Dhaporkar and his wife, they attacked Bhajipale in the OPD with a stool and other equipment in the unit. 
 
 Dr Bhajipale, on the contrary, claimed that he earned the wrath of the patient attendant for having complained of her slackness while on duty. He complained to the police that the woman attendant had been sending patients to him without a slip. When he tried to correct her, a controversy was created. 
 
 Koradi police sources claimed that the CCTV cameras were not installed in the OPD where the incidents took place. Cameras in the corridor captured the doctor being dragged out of the OPD by the accused. “The complaint of sexual harassment would be probed but police learnt that some of the staffers had complaints of doctor’s high-handedness,” sources said.
 
 Hospital sources confirmed the incident and claimed that the incident could have snowballed, but it was due to intervention by a senior doctor that the medical superintendent was rescued on time. 
 
 
