VADODARA: Communal riots broke out in Panigate area of the city late on Sunday night during the Tazia immersions, leaving some cops and three civilians injured. The police had to open fire at the rioters who went beserk after two communities clashed with each right near the Panigate police station. About 10 persons have been arrested and many more booked by the Panigate police for rioting and stone pelting.
 
 The incident occurred when a Tazia procession was passing from the Panigate police station road. “Some of the members in the procession were showing aggression and wielding sticks. Soon it sparked tension among the locals and those participating in the procession, leading to stone pelting,” said a senior police official.
  
 “It seemed to be pre-planned. Some residents of Ektanagar, who participated in the procession, have enmity with Bavchavad residents. They tried to create tension near Bavchavad but we had tight police security there. So when the procession reached Panigate police station, some participants showed aggression and it snowballed into riots,” the police official added.
  
 The cops soon hurried the Tazia procession out from the area and then tried to disperse the mob. “When a constable was trying to disperse the mob, some of them manhandled him. The Panigate police inspector took out revolver to warn the mob but some persons tried to snatch the firearm from his hand. The PI was forced to open fire causing injury to two persons,” said Manoj  , city police commissioner.
  
 Naresh alias Lalo Kahar was got two bullet injuries in abdomen while another bullet grazed Akash Kahar’s neck. The duo was admitted to a private hospital along with   who suffered head injury during the stone pelting. One cabin was damaged and a motorbike was set on fire by the rioting mob. “The communal tension was limited to one area as we had heavy police security in every sensitive zone. We had also checked the Tazia procession to ascertain if any weapons were being carried. We are now trying to identify another rioters,” Sashidhar added. 
 
