LUDHIANA:  , on Wednesday, booked four members of a family for   a   of Rs 2.7 crore. 

 The accused have been identified as Talwinder Singh Mann, a   (RMP), his wife Manpreet Kaur, brother Narinderpal Singh Mann and his wife Jatinderpal Kaur. The complainant, Dr Mahesh Gupta from Harcharan Nagar near Shingar Cinema said he knew Talwinder Singh for the past several years. He said the accused took the money from him on different dates through cash and cheque.
 
 According to him, the money was meant for investment in a liquor factory at Liberia, South Africa, in which Gupta was a partner. Later, he said, he discovered that the accused did not open any liquor factory in Liberia and had produced fake documents to get money from him. 
 
 Dr Gupta said Talwinder took the first loan of Rs 14 lakh from him in 2013. He was supposed to return the money in six months. “Since we had cordial relations for a long time, I gave him the loan. Meanwhile, he offered to make me a partner in the liquor factory he was establishing in Liberia, where his younger brother Narinderpal lives.
 
 He also named a few prominent city-based politicians interested in the business. I agreed and gave him more money for investment. Since I remain busy in the hospital, I hardly joined a business meeting. But they kept taking money from me,” Dr Gupta said. 
 
 By the end of May, 2014, he had given Mann brothers around Rs 90 lakh. To gain his trust, they helped him buy property in Koomkalan. SHO, Koomkalan police station, sub-inspector Swaran Singh said the accused produced fake documents of property purchase in Liberia and kept taking money from Dr Gupta.
 
 However, when Gupta demanded more documents and account details of the business in Liberia, the accused failed to produce it.
 
 After this, the victim made inquiries and found that no such liquor factory exists in Liberia. Following this, he filed a complaint with police commissioner Jatinder Singh Aulkah and an FIR was registered against the accused under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (Punishment for criminal breach of trust), 467 (Forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (Using as genuine a forged 1(document or electronic record) and 120-B (Punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. So far, no arrest has been made.
 
 
