BENGALURU: Karnataka is the only South Indian state where attacks on north-easteners were reported in the past three years. Among the four states where such cases were registered, Karnataka witnessed the third-highest number of incidents after Delhi and Haryana (Gurugram), according to data from the ministry of home affairs (MHA).

 Statistics from 2014 to 2016 reveal there were 22 attacks on people from the northeast in Karnataka, which resulted in 32 arrests. The neighbouring states of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Kerala saw no such assaults.
 
 The   and state police attribute the number to the fact that Bengaluru has the largest concentration of citizens from northeastern states, compared to other metros in  . The northeastern population in the city is around 3 lakh. Even during the exodus of 2012, the largest number of northeast residents who headed back home (threatened by attacks in other cities) was from Bengaluru. Police say all attacks on northeasteners can’t be described as racial. 
 
 Delhi saw the highest number of attacks — 704, followed by Haryana, specifically Gurugram, which recorded 23 cases. Maharashtra reported three cases.
 
 The recent attack on a student from Arunachal Pradesh, who was allegedly made to lick his landlord’s shoes, led to several protests in Bengaluru. Coming out in support of the student, the northeastern community demanded that stricter laws specific to racial attacks be inserted in the Indian Penal Code.
 
 The Centre has proposed amendments to sections 153C and 509A to criminalize racial violence. A statement from MHA said the Criminal Law Amendment Bill, 2016 has been circulated among all stakeholders on February 1, 2017, and their responses are awaited.
 
 Senior police officers said most cases of violence against people from the northeast have been taken seriously. “We have designated a DCP-rank officer as the nodal officer for northeasteners in the city. The officer’s numbers have been made public and the cop is in touch with the community leaders,” a police officer said. Asked why Karnataka is the only South Indian state which figures in the list, he added: “Other states may not be recording data specific to attacks on northeasterners, like we do.”
 
 
 
 
 Proposed Section 153C makes imputations and assertions prejudicial to human dignity and makes words, both spoken and written, or signs attempting to discriminate against individuals on the basis of race, or indulging in an activity intended to use criminal force or violence against a particular race, a non-bailable offence punishable with imprisonment up to five years with fine.
 
 Proposed Section 509A seeks to make any word, gesture or act intended to insult a member of a particular race with imprisonment that may extend to three years with fine.
 
 
 
