NEW DELHI: This week, India demonstrated two very different approaches towards sharing water resources with its neighbours. Pakistan will have to live with the fact that India plans to continue utilisation of its allocation under the 
  (IWT), as it refused to countenance any change of design of the 
  in J&K.

 Meanwhile, on the Bangladesh front, the Modi government is working hard to conclude the 
  with Sheikh Hasina's government, even ready to confront the aggressive and mercurial West Bengal CM, Mamata Banerjee, who is against the move because she is now staunchly opposed to PM Narendra Modi, more so after demonetisation.
 
 India is sticking to the letter of the IWT and has refused to change its design of the Miyar dam, as asked by Pakistan. MEA spokesperson Gopal Baglay told journalists, “There has been no change in the previous Indian position on any of the matters discussed at the commission meeting.“ India defended its presence at the Lahore meeting of the Indus Commissioners last week, saying, “So long as we are a party to the treaty, it is our legal obligation to attend the treaty-mandated meetings which is held at least once every financial year.“
 
 The commission, Baglay said, was a bilateral body of engineers and technical experts, who had detailed technical discussions. Pakistan has asked India to change the design of the Miyar dam, and Pakistan's minister for water said India had agreed to do so. India refuted that report, denying any such change.
 
 Pakistan also said both countries would go to Washington in April for a meeting mediated by the World Bank to chart “the way forward“.
 
 India has refused to say clearly whether it would go to the meeting, the MEA leaving it cryptic with a “premature to talk of hypothetical contingencies“. According to the IWT, India is permitted to construct water storage on western rivers -Indus, Jhelum and Chenab -up to 3.6 million acre feet for various purposes, including domestic use.
 
 Unperturbed by West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee's statement expressing deep concern for not having been “consulted“ on the proposed Teesta water-sharing agreement between India and Bangladesh, the Centre has said stakeholders would be consulted at the right time in the spirit of “cooperative federalism“. Baglay said just as the Centre and state had collaborated during the land boundary agreement, there would be consultations here too.
 
 Banerjee said she was told the signing of the Teesta treaty would be on May 25, following the visit of Bangladeshi PM Sheikh Hasina on April 7-10. Other northeastern CMs had been invited to the signing, she said, but not her. “I have very good relations with Hasina. I also took the initiative in resolving the Chhitmahal (land boundary and exchange of enclaves) issue with the Bangladesh government. But when it comes to protecting the interests of Bengal, I will not put my seal on any treaty without knowing what it is about,“ she said. “The Centre is interacting directly with DMs through video conference. Why is the Centre bypassing the state government?“ the CM asked.
 
