PATNA: The pre-primary wing of Dr D Y Patil Pushapalata Patil International School organised a   party for its students on Friday.

 The children, all dressed up in colourful attire, had a great time swimming and dancing in water. School principal   said, “The objective of the programme was to bring down stress level among kids because of hectic school schedule and also to create an environment that is conducive to general growth and development of young minds.” Kids also enjoyed summer fruits and juice. They danced to the tunes of popular songs like ‘Abhi to party shuru…’, ‘Aaj blue hai pani…’ and more.
 
 “It is necessary for us to ensure that students are not overburdened with school curriculum and they should devote some time for other activities,” school director C B Singh said.
 
 Investiture ceremony: Kumar Sambhav and Shalini Bharti took oath as the head boy and head girl of Usha Martin World School at an investiture ceremony on Friday. The ceremony began with national anthem followed by school song. The school choir welcomed and motivated the newly elected school cabinet members through their song. The badges and sashes were distributed by the head of the school Tarun Singhal, principal Anita Singh and vice-principal Amboj Kumar Singh. The principal congratulated the selected members and briefed them about their responsibilities. She discussed about the qualities a leader should possess. “Every child is a born leader. They just need to groom themselves,” she added. 
 
 Honour for CIMP teacher: Sayan  , a faculty member of   (CIMP), has been invited for the international conference on business marketing and management to be held in Boston, USA, from July 17 to 19. His research paper – ‘From Exploration to Exploitation: Some Perspectives from Organisational Designing’ – was selected by the experts. Banerjee’s paper is a conceptual analysis of how organizations base their technology strategy and its implications.
 
 The conference is expected to be attended by participants from all over the world. Banerjee had earlier presented his paper in the ‘Multidisciplinary Academic Conference on Management, Marketing and Economics’, at Prague, Czech Republic in December 2016. 
 
 
