JAIPUR: Rajasthan leads in creating employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme ( ) in the country for the month of January. According to the figures, 2.42 crore new jobs were created in January in Rajasthan while Tamil Nadu come second by creating 2.02 crore jobs. 

  spending is also set to take a quantum jump in the state this year with the figure touching Rs 4,700 crore till February. Last year, the total spending in NREGA was Rs 3,200 crore.
 
 Commissioner, Employment Guarantee Scheme (EGS), Debasish Prusty supporting his argument said the percentage of timely payment of wages to the workers has gone up to 76% this year which is a remarkable improvement over the previous years. 
 
 In 2015-16, the percentage of timely payment was 46%, in 2014-15 it was 41%.. However, 2013-14 was the worst year with 15% timely payment. According to NREGA, the wages have to be deposited into workers’ accounts within 15 days of work done.
 
 The officials claim that the improvement in the payment of wages and additional mobilization of workers at the grassroots level led to the creation of more employment while the social activists beg to differ.
 
 They say the additional 50 days of work sanctioned over 100 days due to drought followed by flood and the distress due to demonetization could be the reason for more people opting for the scheme and more spending under the scheme this year and improvement in the payment system.
 
 Social activists partly agree with the officials. Mukesh Goswani of   (MKSS), said 14,487 villages were declared disaster-hit last year and additional 5,656 villages were declared flood-affected and additional 50 days of work under NREGA was sanctioned in these villages. Moreover, he also said that still there were hassles in the process of money reaching the hands of the workers. 
 
 Firoz Khan, a social activist working in tribal-dominated Baran district, said, “definitely there is some improvement in the situation in providing employment under the scheme”. 
 
 However, he said, “even now there are payment hitches and I cannot agree with the claim that the payment is made on time. He said there is a huge backlog in payment at Kishanganj and Shahbad blocks in the district.”
 
 
