KOLKATA: In line with its commitment to turn   into a  ,   is toying with the idea of introducing a  . The authorities have already received a proposal from a private company involved in   to implement the project that was conceived by Nasa.

 “We have received a proposal for a pilot project of the system. It is a kind of personalised urban transportation system, which involves a Nasa technology, in which one can book the vehicle and move from one stretch to another on the aerial route. They said it could also be operated by renewable energy. They could take up the pilot project on a 1km stretch in Action Area 1D. We, along with IIT-Kharagpur and other experts, would evaluate the system,” Sen said. 
 
 Sen was speaking at the international workshop on ‘Future Cities: Prospects and Challenges’ that was organised by NKDA and Hidco in association with IIT-Kharagpur and Ranbir and Chitra Gupta School of Infrastructure Design and Management at Eco Park on Wednesday. Experts from Columbia University, University of Edinburgh, Tokyo Metropolitan University and IIT-Kharagpur discussed on issues of urban development, drawing examples of growing townships like Lavasa, Naya Raipur and Amravati.
 
 British deputy high commissioner Bruce Bucknell said that there should be citizen-centric places and the UK has a fantastic connection with Kolkata. ‘Future Cities Catapult’ (FCC), an organization that works on smart cities and supported by the UK government, found a mention in his speech. Hidco has recently signed an MoU with FCC. 
 
 “By 2035, 41% of world population would live in urban areas. Cities have to gear up to take up challenges and the issues like urban transportation, solid waste management and sustainability need to be looked into,” said Sriman Bhattacharya, deputy director of IIT-Kharagpur.
 
 According to Hidco chairman Debashis Sen, the present population of New Town was only around 40,000 but there could have been 3 lakh people living in the township by now if all residential complexes were fully occupied. “Apart from New Town, we are working on developing six theme-based townships in the state. We need to plan out how to build future cities in the best possible way,” he said.
 
 
