  : On a sunny Sunday, in a farmhouse on the Gurgaon-Delhi border, a friendly match launched what is perhaps India’s first-ever   stadium. As a bunch of enthusiastic kids showcased their talent out on the ‘diamond’, the action conveyed atmospherically over a tannoy. It was a scene straight out of an American town in summer.

 ‘Field of Dreams’ (named after the iconic movie starring Kevin Costner) is an enterprise of ‘Grand Slam Baseball’ — an initiative of the 25-year-old Raunaq Sahni, and his partner Jackson Golden — and Major League Baseball (MLB), the world’s biggest baseball organisation.
 
 Beyond popularising this very American of pastimes, Sahni and Golden aim to "to make underdog sports do well.” 
 
 “Our objective is to groom players who can then compete at the professional level, who can play in the first division of US college baseball,” Sahni told TOI. 
 
 “You have a bat-and-ball culture and mentality, so baseball seems a natural fit,” remarked Rick Dell, MLB’s director of baseball development in Asia. Indeed, according to the figures, around 4,000 people ‘play ball’ in Delhi-NCR, in schools, colleges, for the state, and independently. Baseball, in fact, has been around in government schools in Delhi. Now, some private schools in Gurgaon, and in the Capital region, have included the sport as an extracurricular activity.
 
 And kids like Aditya Kathane, 12, are on Sahni’s radar. Aditya, a student of Suncity School, has a natural flair for baseball (he was in the line-up in Sunday’s game). “He got hooked from the first day he played,” says his father Abhijeet. “He saw others competing and asked, ‘If they can, why can’t I?’”
 
 Zach Graefser, the European Academies consultant for Major League Baseball, is visiting   as coach-cum-consultant with Play Global, a not-for-profit unit that helps grow the game worldwide. “I have been pleasantly surprised with the talent and athleticism levels shown, especially by the girls,” shared Graefser.
 
 He stressed on the importance of “correct” training, to better nurture that talent. “It’s not a game for tall guys or big guys, it’s a strong man’s game, an athlete’s game. And we’re trying to relay to the coaches here that it’s about athleticism rather than individual skills.”
 
 Play Global just finished a week-long program to train 10 young coaches, and in the coming days, MLB will be imparting training to 20 more. It’s a sign that baseball is no longer an American sport. Indeed, almost half of those appearing in Major League Baseball are born outside the US. And it’s Asia that has become the hub of the action.
 
 “It’s a world game, and you can see that in the world rankings – Japan is first, Korea third, Chinese Taipei is fourth, and China is in the top 20,” Dell reveals.
 
 
