Sandeep.Moudgal@timesgroup.com Karnataka High Court Chief Justice S K Mukherjee’s decision to not intervene in the raging Kappatagudda debate has put chief minister Siddaramaiah in a spot. At its last meeting on February 20, the state wildlife board gave Siddaramaiah the power to take a unilateral decision on the issue. However, with assembly polls approaching, a mining lease executed in favour of Ramgad Minerals and Mining Private Limited (RMML), a subsidiary of Baldota Group of Companies, could help the government push its “development” agenda by generating revenue and employment. Preliminary estimates suggest that 50 tonnes of pure gold reserve is at stake in the region on the single lease sought by RMML.  So, which way will Siddaramaiah go? Wildlife board members say a unanimous decision was taken that 17,872.248 hectares of forest area at Kappatagudda should get the green tag. “There was not a single dissenting voice, including government representatives, and this has gone on record at the February 20 meeting,” said a board member. The board based its decision to declare the region a conservation site following the January 16 public hearing, which, the forest department said, was overwhelmingly in favour of the greens. However, H Y Desai, RMML vice president (corporate communications), said the public consultation was “biased”. “Those opposing the conservation proposal didn’t get a scope to express their views,” he said in an emailed response.  Desai alleged that the RMML representative present at the hearing was told not to speak, and also demanded an apology for the same. Desai claimed there was no unique flora or fauna at Kappatagudda for it to be declared a wildlife sanctuary and that it isn’t adjacent to any national park or forest reserve. “In addition to RMML, most of the locals opposed declaring Kappatagudda a wildlife sanctuary in February 2013,” said Desai. On the 423 medicinal herbs listed by the forest department for conservation, RMML claimed they are common and cultivable. “Further, the medicinal plantation area earmarked by the forest department is far from our granted area. In fact, we don’t have any issues preserving the 2000-acre medicinal plantation area,” added Desai.  RMML claimed that all their prospecting license and mining license areas are on the fringes of Kappatagudda hill range; most of the mining is underground, keeping environmental degradation to a “minimum”. RMML has one mining lease over 39.70 hectares, which is pending for forest department clearance since 2008. It also has 10 additional prospecting licenses in the region. Source of jobs Stating that Gadag district is deprived of industrialization, with not a single large industry to employ locals, H Y Desai, RMML vice president (corporate communications), said the proposed mining could generate direct and indirect job opportunities for 1,000 persons, apart from revenue generation in the form of royalty and other applicable taxes. 