Mumbai: Coming to the aid of nearly 350 students of   at  , the   on Thursday directed the   to grant by July 18 permissions to repair the school premises.

 The school is housed on the ground floor and part of the first floor of a building that’s in a dilapidated condition. 
 
 On June 23, a part of the balcony of the second floor collapsed. Fortunately, there was “no loss of life or limb’’ to any student or staff,   observed and expressed distress at the lack of proper implementation of orders passed by the court over the last one year for repairs of the premises.
 
 Last year, the trustees running the school made an application for urgent orders to carry out repairs. The matter came up before Justice Kathawalla who passed a consent term order on May 2, 2016 appointing Shetgiri and Associates as independent architects to assess the structural stability and repair costs. The trustees said the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) failed to cooperate with Shetgiri and the judge passed an order on November 17 to ensure Mhada’s cooperation. Following that, Mhada granted permissions within seven days.
 
 But when Shetgiri applied to BMC for permission for repairs, he did not receive any. The civic body insisted on signatures of owners of property. There is a pending dispute since 2009 between members of Poddar, Jhuria and Keyal families over the Greenlawns School premises. Umarani Poodar had moved the high court in 2009 against SS Jhuria and eight others to comply with a 1964 lease condition and repair the school premises.
 
 C U Shah Educational Trust that runs the private school, then made an application to seek directions on how to go ahead with the repairs based on the May 2016 and later orders. The Trust’s advocate Cherag Balsara said lives of hundreds of children enrolled till standard X was at risk despite orders passed before last monsoon. Even though it’s already another monsoon now, the repairs still haven’t started, he said.
 
 Advocate Kirit Mody appearing for A S Jhuria said Poddar and another party to the dispute recently passed away. The HC said since other family members were parties it cannot delay its order. The court directed the BMC to grant permission without insisting on signature of the owners by July 18 and kept the issue of ownership of the premises pending.
 
