GHAZIABAD: An inquiry into the land acquisition for   (NH24) project has found officials from the district magistrate’s office and an IAS officer cheated farmers of several crores through ‘fraudulent’ purchase of land. 

 According to an official, who was part of the four-member inquiry committee constituted by the divisional commissioner to look into the isssue, the officials took home at least Rs 16 crore in the land deal.
 
 The issue came to light when a group of nearly 20 farmers from Nahal, Dasna and Kushaliya formally lodged a complaint with the state government claiming that they were cheated by officials from the district magistrate’s office. It was stated in the complaint that it was done after the notification of   Expressway project.
 
 “As per rule, sale and purchase of land after the notification is not allowed. In this case, the notification for Delhi-Meerut Expressway project was issued in 2011. However, officials who were in the know of things purchased land from the villagers in the name of their relatives at a very low price before the notification,” said the official, who was part of the four-member inquiry committee. “They kept the farmers in the dark about the forthcoming notification. In 2012, the officials purchased their lands in the name of their relatives on a circle rate of Rs 1,700 to Rs 1,800 sqm while they sold off the same land to the government at a rate of Rs 7,000 to 8,000 per sqm,” said the official.
 
 Recently, when a group of farmers brought the issue to the state government, it ordered divisional commissioner   to look into the matter. He in turn formed a four-member committee under Ghaziabad DM which included chief development officer, ADM (land acquisition) and ADM (finance) to probe the matter. “We were given a 15-day time to probe the matter. On September 1, we submitted the report to the divisional commissioner,” said the official. 
 
 “Out of 458 registries which took place at that time, we found that nearly 20 land dealings were done in a ‘fraudulent’ manner in which an IAS officer, a PCS officer and one ‘amin’ and their relatives had profited to the tune of nearly Rs 16 crore from the land dealings ” said the official.
 
 When TOI spoke to Prabhat Kumar he declined to elaborate on the matter but confirmed that he has recived the report which will be forwarded to the state government. “At this point, I cannot divulge anything but I have received the report,” said Kumar.
 
 Prime Minister   had laid the foundation stone for Delhi-Meerut Expressway project in December 2015. The acquisition of land began soon. So far, nearly 400 crores have been awarded as compensation.
 
 
