RAIPUR: After a brief lull, Maoists struck again in Bastar, killing 12   personnel and injuring two in strife-torn Sukma district of Chhattisgarh on Saturday morning.

 Sukma SP Abhishek Meena said the CRPF team was ambushed around 9am near Kotacheru, close to Bhejji, one of the worst Maoist-hit areas around 450km from the state capital. 
 
 Sources say the rebels targeted a CRPF road-opening party (ROP) of A/E 219 Battalion that was sanitising an area for movement of troops to provide security to a road construction project. In a deeply forested region, the Maoists triggered an IED blast and then riddled the jawans with gunfire. Eleven jawans died on the spot and a twelfth died in hospital. Two suffered critical injuries.
 
 The Maoists looted 10 assault rifles and VHF radio sets and escaped. The CRPF security column that was following the ROP heard the gunfire and rushed to engage the Maoists. There was an exchange of gunfire but no casualties were inflicted on the rebels, say sources. The injured were shifted to Bhejji from where they were airlifted to Raipur.
 
 Police sources said the ambush happened in a very remote location where the only way of communication is via satellite phone. Reinforcements were sent immediately but they had to approach cautiously because Maoists often lay landmines to target rescue parties.
 
 Prime Minister   tweeted: “Saddened by the killing of CRPF personnel in Sukma. Tributes to the martyrs & condolences to their families. May the injured recover quickly”. Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh described the attack as an act of cowardice. “Maoists are resorting to such violence because they are losing their hold in Bastar. A massive combing operation is on to flush them out. Our forces are determined and capable of facing the challenge,” he added. 
 
 Union home minister Rajnath Singh was scheduled to arrive later in the evening to join the CM in paying his tributes to the martyred jawans.
 
 Police identified the dead as inspector Jagjit Singh, ASIs H B Bhatt and Narender Kumar Singh, head constables P R Minde and Jagdish Prasad Vaishnoi, and constables Mangesh Pal Pandey, Rampal Singh Yadav, Gorakhnath, Nandkumar Patra, Satish Kumar Verma, K Shankar and Suresh Kumar. The two injured constables are Jaidev Pramanik and Mohammad Salim.
 
 Earlier, chief minister Raman Singh convened an emergency meeting of senior civil and police officials to take stock of the situation in Bastar where Maoist activity peaks with the advent of summer. Maoists usually unleash violence in Bastar between March and July — till the onset of monsoon.
 
 Sukma district, which was earlier part of undivided Dantewada, has been a Maoist hotbed as it’s located on the tri-junction of Odisha and Telangana. A vast forested area of Sukma falls under the so-called ‘liberated zone’ of Dandakaranya. 
 
