NAGPUR: There is disappointment in store for those wanting to spend the extended Holi weekend in the forests. All sanctuaries under Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) will remain closed for three days from Saturday.

 “However, those tourists who had made online bookings in advance will be allowed to enter. There will be no spot bookings at any of the tourism gates,” said Rishikesh Ranjan, chief conservator of forests (CCF) & field director of Pench.
 
 The decision means no entry for tourists to Pench, Bor, Umred-Karhandla, Mansinghdeo and Tipeshwar on Saturday, Sunday and Monday. Tipeshwar, Bor and Umred-Karhandla are shut on Mondays. 
 
 Premium parks like Tadoba has been kept open for tourists and it is already packed with advance bookings. Pench on the Madhya Pradesh side will remain open on Saturday and Sunday.
 
 Similarly, Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) in   and Bhandara will remain open on Saturday and for morning safari on Sunday.
 
 “All the staff has been told to remain present for patrolling and their leaves have been cancelled. This is the most trying time for us when most forest fires and poaching occur,” said Ravikiran Govekar, field director of NNTR.
 
 All parks in Madhya Pradesh too will remain closed on Monday. “We did not accept bookings online for Holi and hence no tourists will be allowed. This has been the practice since long,” said Subharanjan Sen, field director of Pench.
 
 Another reason to close the parks is that staff will not be available for tourists. “As entire focus is on patrolling during the three days, the time when poaching of wild animals for meat on Holi padwa and illicit felling for wood is rampant on periphery forest areas of the parks, we have kept all parks closed,” Ranjan told TOI.
 
 All the parks in Vidarbha have chalked out a massive patrolling plan. Pench and NNTR have also allowed serious volunteers in Holi patrolling in vulnerable and sensitive areas.
 
 “We have involved volunteers from Saturday and some groups from Sunday and Monday for patrolling in sensitive areas like   and Surewani in Pench buffer,” said assistant conservator of forests (ACF) SS Bhagwat.
 
 Nagalwadi being close to bordering MP, there have been instances of poachers with bharmar guns (a muzzle-loading firearm) intruding forest adjoining Pench in search of wild animals. Early, this week three poachers were nabbed in Kolitmara in West Pench. 
 
 ACF GP Bobde said in forests around Bor and New Bor help of ‘vaghyra mitras’ (tiger friends) in villages will be taken. “These village volunteers have been given torches and other gears to track poachers and anti-social elements. Patrolling will start from Friday night itself,” said Bobde.
 
 Guides and local gypsy owners from Umred-Karhandla have flayed the forest department decision. “We can understand closure on Holi day, but closing it for three days will cost us our livelihood. Tourists moving inside the sanctuary by default does patrolling and hence there is no point in closing the park on Saturday and Sunday,” said Jitendra Gondane, sarpanch and guide at Gothangaon gate.
 
