NEW DELHI: After facing opposition from students and teachers for having decided on February 25 to apply for autonomous status under  , St Stephen’s College will now consult the two groups on their views before taking any action. After a five-hour meeting on Friday, the college staff council passed a resolution to this effect, and the decision was relayed to students sitting in silent protest by principal John Varghese.

 “We stated strongly and clearly that no one was in favour of autonomy,” said Nandita Narain, president of the college staff association. “We explained the dangers and discussed the experiences of other institutions after opting for such a move.” The resolution urged the governing board to rescind the decision on applying for autonomy.
 
 The teachers described the consultations as a positive step, also unprecedented because the college administration had been adopting a hard stance on the matter. The students too were elated. “What the final decision is, we will see,” said a protesting student, “but at least now our concerns will be addressed properly.” 
 
 Besides the college’s faculty and students, many others in DU have felt that St Stephen’s act would lead to autonomy becoming the next big issue for the central university. “All trust-run colleges will take this as an opportunity to get out of the DU system,” argued Abha D Habib, former DU Executive Council member. “Autonomy is a key suggestion of the draft New Education Policy as a way to weed out weak institutions and give financial and administrative autonomy to the good ones. However, instead of debating NEP in Parliament, the centre is hastily implementing autonomy in DU without discussing it fully.” Autonomy would allow colleges to create their own curricula for new courses and determine their own admission criteria, separate from the university’s central study programmes and admission procedures. Colleges believed to be mooting autonomy are St Stephen’s, Lady Shriram, Shri Ram College of Commerce, Hindu and Hansraj.
 
 At DU’s Executive Council meeting on Tuesday, teacher representatives had demanded the disbanding of the committee set up by the university to study the autonomy provision. On Friday, Ajay K Bhagi, EC member, told TOI that the Delhi University Act and related statutes and ordinances had no provisions in them for autonomous colleges. “We heard that the governing board chairman of St Stephen’s quoted the dean of colleges as saying there is pressure from the government to grant autonomy,” said Bhagi. “But where is such an order from the government? In fact, given the current federal structure of DU, the government should grant more academic and governance autonomy to the university rather than to the constituent colleges.” 
 
 While terming as illusionary the perception of the St Stephen’s management that autonomous status will bestow “immense power”, Bhagi countered, “Has DU ever declined any proposal of St Stephen’s to start a new course? Never.” To this, Habib cited the examples of Presidency University of Kolkata and Loyola College of Chennai, saying they “have lost their sheen” after being granted autonomy.
 
 Amid all this, Rev Valson Thampu, former principal of St Stephen’s, championed autonomy for the college. On Thursday, in a social media post titled ‘St Stephen’s alumni, your time has come’, he pointed out how the college under DU had failed to grow over the years. “In 1971, when I joined St Stephen’s, there were eight major departments. In 2017, we have the same number,” he wrote. He asked the students to support the decision of the governing board, and to think for themselves rather than be manipulated by autonomy naysayers. 
 
 
