NAGPUR: The state public works department (PWD) has done away with the norm of having at least three bidders in a tender, if the work to be allotted is urgent. 

 In case of urgent works even two bids in the first call will be enough. If a single bid is received, there will be another round after eight days. Even then if only one bid is received, the tender can be processed further straight away, says a clarification issued by the PWD two days ago.
 
 It says even as condition of minimum three technically qualified bids in the first call cannot be relaxed as per   (CVC) norms, an exception is being allowed for urgent works. The concerned chief engineer has to, however, give on record the reasons for processing the tender with two bids only, says the clarification
 
 As contractors say this will speed up the process, there are concerns that it may also lead to misuse of discretionary powers by the officers.
 
 “Easing the norms will speed up the process. Often, the tender process is inordinately delayed due to low response. By the time, final work order is issued, much time is wasted. Even contractors’ funds given as earnest money deposit are locked up till the final decision is taken,” said  , president of  . 
 
 Earlier, the second round was called after 15 days, and this gap has been reduced to eight. This will also help speed things up, he said
 
 Arun Sampat, a contractor whose RTI papers brought to fore the state irrigation scam, said there is a need to have specific norms for declaring any work as urgent. Otherwise it would remain a matter of the officer’s discretion.
 
 The PWD notice also says that contractors will be reimbursed the extra burden on account of Goods and Services Tax (GST). Earlier, Value Added Tax (VAT) was applicable on works contracts. After GST was introduced from July this year, the new tax is imposed on older works too. GST rates are higher by 13% as compared to VAT. As a protest, contractors have stopped responding to tenders till the issued of refund is addressed.
 
 “The contractors are still not happy with the department’s move. The PWD wants contractors to submit their claims. However, the demand is that the department should calculate the dues and pay contractors instead. This will avoid any conflicts. The contractors’ claims are likely to be rejected on technical grounds,” added Mahajan.
 
