This couple from T Nagar, Dr D Ramasubramanian and R Manonmani, is living the dream of their younger son Ashwin Maharaj Ramasubramanian, who passed away in 2015, after battling acute myeloid leukemia. While he underwent treatment in San Diego, he experienced music therapy and always looked forward to the sessions. He told his parents how music therapy should be popularised in India as well. Ever since then,   was founded in December 2015, has been regularly organising music sessions in hospitals. “Currently the music sessions happen in hospitals in four cities — Chennai, Bengaluru, Delhi and Ahmedabad. We organise them at   in Chennai, AIIMS in Delhi, GCRI in Ahmedabad and Kidwai Institute in Bengaluru,” starts Manonmani.
 
  
 The couple, along with their elder son, other family members and Ashwin’s friends, is on a mission to achieve the vision that Ashwin had. “Music therapy is one among them. Ashwin was quite a dynamic person and was quite involved in sports and social activities. He did his schooling in Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan, Chennai and college in Jindal Global Law School, Haryana. He was fondly called Maharaj by his friends, as he captained and coached football teams in both, school and college. Hence, the foundation is called The Ashwin Maharaj Foundation. He was so passionate about football that he even used it as part of a development programme among orphaned kids in Haryana. He would say that by involving them in sports, their innate nature, which is generally rebellious, could be changed and made more positive. He would also teach them English. He was also keen on creating awareness on the importance of stem cell donation in India. That’s another thing which we want to promote through this foundation,” elaborates Manonmani. 
 Giving more details about the music sessions that are being organised, Manonmani says, “We have students from five city colleges — SSN College of Engineering, Ethiraj College for Women, Stella Maris, Women’s Christian College and Anna University — come and help us by performing songs for the patients. They perform folk music, Bharathiyar songs and even film songs which are melodious. Child patients are made to sing rhymes. When they at least try to sing, their throat centre gets activated, which is good in healing process. We also give certificates to those who come and perform after they complete a certain number of sessions with us.”
 Apart from the music sessions, the foundation also supply supplements for patients from less-privileged backgrounds. “This is called supplementary nutrition. It is a special high-protein health mix powder manufactured according to the recipe given to us by Dr V Shanta, chairperson of Adyar Cancer Institute. And we distribute it to the patients who hail from economically backward families. And for the manufacture of this health mix, we’re looking for donations from companies under CSR. The idea is to expand our work to as many hospitals as possible and help patients,” says Manonmani and signs off. 
 
