CHENNAI: The 15 fishermen who walked out of the airport's   terminal at 9.30pm were visibly relieved at the end to their six-month ordeal in prison in Kish Island,  . 

 Iran released the fishermen after the Centre intervened and they arrived in the city from Dubai by an Emirates flight on Thursday night. 
 
 Recounting the terrible time they spent, Vincent, a fisherman from Tirunelveli, said, "Life was hell for the past six months. The Iranian authorities did not give us food regularly. Indian workers who used to visit the island once in a while used to bring us food. Most of us ate only once a day." But he said the captives were not tortured by Iranian forces. 
 
 The fishermen, from the southern districts of the state, were working for a Bahrain-based company and strayed into Iranian territorial waters while on a fishing trip in October.
 
 None of them want to return to the Middle East for work and are instead planning to get back to fishing in their districts. "I do not want to go back to any gulf country. My family was on the streets as I am the sole bread winner," said Vincent.
 
  minister   received the fishermen at the airport terminal. They were boarded into waiting buses, arranged by the government to ferry them to their native places. They belong to Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and Ramanathapuram districts. Relatives did not come to receive them in Chennai as the authorities told them to wait at their hometowns. Now, they want the state government to offer some assistance to help them put together their livelihood, as none of them want to return to the Middle East for work.
 
 "We thank the state and Centre for helping us return home safely," Sreejith, of Kanyakumari, said. "We appeal to the state government to offer us assitance to help us get back to our normal lives." 
 
 Minister Jayakumar said the state government would offer them all assitance for repatriation. 
 
 He said a second batch of 15 people from   lodged in prison in Iran would soon return to the state. 
 
