PATNA: State health minister   said on Friday that the sophisticated medical equipment required for the open heart surgery unit at   (IGIMS) would be installed in the next two months.

 In reply to a short-notice question of   member Ramanuj Prasad, the minister admitted that the machine installed at IGIMS, which facilitated open heart surgery for the poor patients from the state, had been out of order for some time, but the money for the new equipment had already been sanctioned and a new machine would be installed in the next two months.
 
 In reply to another short-notice question of   member Sanjay Sarawagi, the health minister admitted that the number of caesarean section (C-section) in private hospitals had increased abnormally in the state. The minister said the number of C-section operations in private hospitals for the child birth was 23% against 1.03% in government hospitals.
 
 Apart from conducting awareness campaign and asking women to come to government hospitals for normal and safe deliveries, infrastructure facilities like opening of first referral units (FRUs), blood banks and blood storage banks in government hospitals were being improved and expanded. As many as 35 gynaecological and 63 child specialists had been posted in the FRUs, the minister said, adding that there was a plan to further expand the infrastructural facilities.
 
 Planning and development minister Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh informed the   that out of 35,000 applications received from intermediate (+2) pass candidates for availing the Rs1,000 per month self-help assistance given by the government, 23,000 had been cleared and Rs3.81 crore was paid to them.
 
 Replying to the starred question of BJP member Sachindra Prasad Singh, the minister said the state had around 35 lakh students who had passed the intermediate level examinations, but 17 lakh of them constituted potential beneficiaries of the scheme that was started on October 2 last year.
 
 With regard to the questions of House members on making the hydel power projects functional in the state, energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said the government was in the process of framing its maintenance policy for the hydel projects which were old and required to be modernized and renovated. He said a team of engineers from   had already inspected these hydel projects and had also made their recommendations for the follow-up action on modernizing them.
 
 
