The ninth edition of the   (BQFF) is here, and the latest chapter of the event promises a whole gamut of Indian and international films that are both contemplative and experimental. Besides celebrating art, the festival aims to serve as a space for voicing the concerns of the   (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender) community. However, there have also been instances where gay-themed films have come under the scanner and denied certification from the Censor Board because of ‘objectionable’ content and theme. When it comes to film festivals, however, the rules seem to be a little relaxed. Although every registration is scrutinized by special preview committees, factors such as the plotline, narrative technique, content, treatment of the subject matter and creative freedom, as long as the scenes do not look too forced, are given importance. As BQFF 2017 kick-starts, we try to understand how the selection process for queer fests works…
Filmmaker  , also founder-festival director of Kashish Mumbai Queer Film Festival, explains, “When it comes to film fests, the rules are a little different. Instead of approaching the Censor Board, a special permission is requested from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, seeking exemptions on various grounds. Thus, the preview groups that scan through every entry has a vital role to play in what movies are finally scheduled for public screening. Queer film fests in India are done on a smaller scale, compared with other film fests. Also, audiences above the age 18 are only allowed, apart from delegates. It is true that a number of boundaries are broken in terms of content and treatment in these films, many of which are also experimental works, here personal discretion also comes into play. Details about every film are put forth ahead of the screening, so if considered inappropriate, one can opt out. Most of these films are aimed at acquainting people with the untold stories of the community, so sometimes the artistes need to reimagine narratives and exercise a bit of creative freedom aesthetically. These fests are both about entertainment and advocacy, and we try to seek a balance between the two.” 
 Sridhar further says, “From rom-coms to serious films, a variety of movies are showcased under every category that one should watch to understand things better.”
 The overall idea is to showcase art from diverse backgrounds and communities, and promote independent cine artistes. Poorva Rajaram, co-organizer of BQFF, says, “Ours is like other film festivals, but done on a smaller scale. We follow the same rules and procedures. We have an activist cause as our driving force, and believe in advocating for the rights of minorities.” This year’s festival will also see two entries from Northeast India, which is happening for the first time, while the event will also delve into caste issues within the LGBTQ community.
 However, according to director  , whose 57-minute Hindi film 
  is making its Indian premiere at BQFF 2017, some amount of censorship is required for every film. “Blame it on the lack of know-how or otherwise, it is often thought that LGBTQ films contain too much of gross content related to sexuality that are not appropriate for audiences of all age groups. But not all films are only filled with naked scenes. There are artistic works that pinpoint on the issues that people from this community face and also the inner conflicts among them. Such things should be talked about more in open. Children also need to be educated before introducing them to these kinds of art works,” he says, adding, “Most LGBTQ events in India are still just about coming out of the closet, Section 377 or about sexuality. There are stories, arts and other concerns that also need to be brought to the fore.”
 
 
 
 
 
