HYDERABAD: Buoyed by the high quality   at Tummalapalle in Kadapa district, the   (UCIL) has proposed to expansion of its production capacity from the present nine lakh tonnes per annum to 13.5 lakh tonnes per annum.

 The Reconstituted   (non coal mining) directed that the UCIL conduct an environment impact assessment (EIA) and environment management (EM) survey besides public hearing in Tummalapalle and surrounding villages. The Expert Appraisal Committee will take a final call based on the EIAEM studies. Earlier, the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) cleared the proposal for expansion.
 
 Tummalapalle mines hold one of the largest uranium reserves in the world. The quality of uranium obtained from Tummalapalle is supe rior in nature. Though the uranium reserves in Kadapa district could fuel the nuclear power plants in the country for several decades, several studies conducted in and around Tummalapalle revealed contamination of water, soil and air.
 
 The UCIL is likely to face tough environmental battle from rights groups as it prepares to hold the EIAEM survey and public hearings.Incidentally , the UCIL has held back its plans to set up a uranium mining plant in Nalgonda district following strong resentment from the rights groups and the locals.
 
 The UCIL submitted the expansion proposal on June 29, 2016. The expert committee heard the UCIL's and other proposals during November 23-25, 2016 and upload the result on its website on December 7, 2016 calling for EIAEM study and public hearing. Since this is a long drawn procedure, the expansion may not take place du ring the year. The project area is spared over 973.61 hectares and the UCIL made it clear that it will not increase the project area while expanding the production capacity by 4.5 tonnes.
 
 The UCIL also envisages expansion of the existing ore processing plant commensurate with the increased mining production.
 
 According to the proposal submitted to the expert committee, the mine and associated ore processing plant will come up on 813.61 hectares in Tummalapalle, Mobbuchintapalle, Bumayigaripalle and Rachakuntapalle villages.
 
 A disposal unit has been planned over 60 hectares at Kottalu village, six km away from the plant. “With present plan for enhancement of production capacity and deepening of the mine at a later stage (as most part of the reserve is below 275 metres), the overall life of the operations is expected to be for more than 30 years. However, the reserve up to a depth of 275 metres is expected to last for 20 years at the expanded capacity ,“ the UCIL said in its proposal. After processing the ore, uranium concentrate will be sent to the   ( ) in Hyderabad through road.
 
