PANAJI: In 2012, Goan musician and Padma Shri awardee Remo Fernandes played the   urging voters, especially the young, to come out and cast their vote with a jingle—‘Vote: Tit for Tat’. It turned out to be a watershed polls with the highest voter turnout. But by December 2015, the man who led young Goans to vote had surrendered his Indian passport and opted for Portuguese nationality.

 Remo, a voter from Siolim constituency, isn’t the only one. There are many like him who have been migrating on Portuguese passport and lost their right to vote in India.
 
 “Every month, an average of 50 people migrate from St Andre constituency, with 10 migrating from Agasaim alone,” says Agasaim sarpanch James Afonso. No wonder, St Andre in Tiswadi holds the distinction of the only constituency in the state that has seen a decline in the electoral rolls. Over a 10-year period,it has shown a dip of 1,254 voters.
 
 The constituency, which comprises seven village panchayats of Siridao-Palem, Batim, Agaccaim, Azossim-Mandur, Curca-Bambolim, Neura and Goa Velha, has a strength of only 20,941 today, making it the smallest constituency in terms of its electorate.
 
  a resident of Agaccaim isn’t particularly pleased about having his neighborhood emptied out. His neighbours, a family of 12—three brothers and their families—migrated recently. Another family of five is packing up to go. Many return to reconstruct and renovate their houses and it’s not uncommon to find ghost like houses in these villages, some manned by a single senior citizen and others locked.
 
 “Where in their wildest dreams would they be able to build a big bungalow with the salary they receive here? I know youth who were struggling in school here but are now excelling there. My own nephew is an example. He now wants to become an aeronautical engineer. People who had no dreams here are really working hard and doing well in the UK. The system is well placed there,” says Fernandes. 
 
 Siridao, the traditional fishing village that saw a sizeable population migrate to Paris more than three decades ago, continues to see Goans migrating to the UK, now on Portuguese passports. Migration to Europe began in Siridao and then moved to the neighbouring villages of Goa Velha and Agaccaim, says sarpanch of Siridao Antonio Afonso, adding that his ward that had 350 voters in 2012 and is now down to 200.
 
 “Governments only make promises to its people but can’t deliver on basic amenities. What future do the younger generation have here?” he asks. “Their status and standard of living has improved tremendously because of migration. If they were here there would only be fights. Initially, only the male breadwinner in the family migrated. Now, it is entire families because of the future of their children,” he says. 
 
 A voter in the 2012 assembly election, Reshma along with her three schoolgoing children joined her husband a Portuguese passport holder in Swindon, UK in 2016. She quit her job as a school teacher here and cannot take up a job in the UK yet as she is required to accompany her children, all below the age of 13 to school. The family braces for what Brexit has in store for them. “We heard taxes are going to increase, that life is going to become more expensive and that certain facilities will be cut down, but we’re taking it one day at a time,” she says.
 
 Life may be tough but it is the hope for a better future that makes them migrate. “A number of boys from Agaccaim, who otherwise would be loitering and would have wasted their lives in Goa, are now working here,” she adds.
 
