KOCHI: Father Tom   who was kept in captivity for 566 days by terrorists in strife torn  , reached his home state on Sunday morning, 19 days after he was released. He was given a rousing welcome by his family, church and political leaders upon his arrival at the airport from Bengaluru. "I am really happy to return to my home state. Thanks a lot for all your prayers and this reception that you have arranged," Father Uzhunnalil said.

 Auxiliary bishop of Pala Jacob Murickan, opposition leader  , MP Jose K Mani, MLAs V D Satheeshan, Anwar Sadath and V K Ibrahim Kunju were present at the airport to welcome the priest. However, there were no representatives of the state government present.
 
 The priest later addressed the faithful gathered at St Mary's Basilica for the Sunday mass.He said that no one should be worried about accomplishing their mission as God will always be there to support you. "There will be challenges like this but God will always be there to support us. I was under captivity and now I am addressing this gathering. It is all God's grace," he said. Earlier he was received by the clergy and there was thunderous applause when he walked to the altar.
 
 Father   later led a prayer ceremony at the church.
 
 Meanwhile, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala fired a fresh salvo against the government accusing them of not even sending at least one minister to welcome the priest on his arrival in the state. "The government should have taken the return of the priest more seriously," said the opposition leader.
 
 CPM district secretary P Rajeev, however, said that he had met the priest along with GCDA Chairman CN Mohanan at the Bishop's House.
 
 Father Tom, who went to Yemen in 2010 , was serving the Missionaries of Charity of St   and the Catholic population there. He was kidnapped by a terrorist group on March 4, 2016. The priest was released on September 12 after the Oman government intervened in the issue. The 59-yearold Catholic priest had returned to Delhi on September 28 after rest and recuperation in  . After meeting the prime minister and the external affairs minister to express his gratitude for their support, he went to Bengaluru, where he had spent 18 years serving parishioners in Kolar Gold Fields, Hassan and Bhadravati, before flying down to Kochi.
 
