GURUGRAM: A city court has sentenced a former Armyman to life imprisonment in the 2015 murder case of a 24-year-old schoolteacher, who he shot dead allegedly for turning down his advances. 

 Additional sessions judge Rajni Yadav, who held Manjeet Singh (28) guilty of conspiracy and murder, also slapped a fine of Rs 50,000 on him while passing judgment on Wednesday. Both Singh, who was a sepoy with the 633rd EME Battalion posted at Hisar cantonment, and Deepika, who used to teach at a private school, belonged to Mirzapur village near Pataudi on the outskirts of the city. Singh was sacked by the Army after he was charge-sheeted in the murder case.
 
 The public prosecutor, advocate S S Chouhan, said sepoy Singh had fired three rounds at Deepika near Bilaspur Chowk on NH-8 at around 9am on August 20, 2015, when Deepika was walking towards a bus stop on her way to school. 
 
 Singh, who was waiting near the bus stop with his face covered, fired at Deepika, injuring her in the head and chest, before fleeing from the spot. 
 
 She was rushed to a private hospital in Manesar with serious injuries, and was later referred to a private hospital in Gurgaon, where she succumbed to her injuries two days later. The medical report produced before court said Deepika had died due to excessive blood loss and injury in her head.
 
 The crime branch had arrested Singh from Rewari on August 23, three days after the shooting. In his statement before police, Singh had claimed he was in a relationship with the victim. But they had broken up around two years before the murder, though, even after the alleged break-up, Singh reportedly continued to chase Deepika, who repeatedly rejected his advances. 
 
 Deepika’s family, on the other hand, had denied any relationship between Singh and Deepika. They alleged Singh had been harassing Deepika and had   her after she had repeatedly refused his advances. 
 
 Investigations further revealed Singh had started planning the attack nearly a month in advance. He had illegally purchased the pistol from a place near Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh. 
 
 
