PUNE: There's a buzz around the  , and Pune's hearing it the clearest. For, the city's consumption of   is 80 times more than the country's average, which is a mere 8.4 gm, according to figures given by the city-based   ( ).

 “People in this city are health conscious, and it seems they have added honey to their daily diet,“ says Donald Tais, in-charge of the CBRTI parlour at Shivajinagar here.
 
 High school teacher Sandip Pokale has replaced jam with honey while enjoying a slice or two of bread. A regular visitor to the CBRTI parlour, he says, “I have added honey to my regular diet because of its multiple medicinal properties. It has given me positive results.“
 
 General physician Neelesh Wadnap also vouches for the health benefits of consuming honey. “Honey can be used for curing certain coughs. The pure form of honey can be used as a   but many a times the quality of the honey is not up to the mark. Honey with warm water has multiple benefits like cleaning the bowels.“
 
 Enthused by the health properties of the sugary food substance, Puneities have been making a beeline for the CBRTI honey parlour, forcing the authorities to ask for replenishments.“Our sale has been consistent for the last two years,“ says Tais. Experts say the reason people prefer buying honey from the CBRTI parlour is because it is certified by Agmark, a government agency , which caters to a set of standards approved by the Directorate of Marketing and Inspection. “We take conscious efforts to maintain the quality of honey as per stan dards,“ says CBRTI assistant director R K Singh. The parlour keeps four different types of honey which mainly come from Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and the Melghat tribal areas in Maharashtra.
 
 Pune's voracious appetite for honey is borne out by these figures. In 2015-16, the per capita consumption of honey was 430gm, while this financial year (till December 2016) it rose to 686gm. In comparison, the per capita consumption of honey in developed countries is 1,200gm.
 
 In 2015-16, Puneites consumed 12,766 kg of honey worth Rs 46.52 lakh. While from April 2016 till December 2016, the consumption was 8,007 kg valued at Rs 29 lakh, according to CBRTI.
 
