Mandar D, a marketing executive, was on the verge of obesity and had tried everything to reduce weight. But there was no visible result. Then he came to know about   — a process that makes use of hypnosis, in addition to diet and exercise, to help people lose weight. Though sceptic, he went for a couple of sessions, and was amazed when results began to show. His main concern was his unhealthy eating habits. Due to his field job, his eating schedule was all over the place and despite his best efforts, he could never stick to a healthy diet. However, after regular hypnotherapy sessions, he not only managed to stay away from junk food, but also learnt to make healthy food choices.
A science that explores the subconscious mind and behaviours that stem from it, hypnosis is known to be an alternative medicine, and the use of it to treat various ailments has grown, just the way meditation and yoga has. Basically, hypnotherapy works by improving a person’s self-control and discipline.
 
 
 The therapy conditions the brain into new patterns of thinking, using techniques like affirmation. Sessions are more like guided meditation, which initially calm the person before moving on to make changes to the psyche. The goal is to eliminate unnecessary urges and impulsive thinking that spark bad habits. Says nutritionist and dietician  , “Contrary to popular belief, hypnotherapy will not make you feel uncomfortable that your darkest and deepest secrets will be revealed. Instead, hypnotherapy for   will make you love what you eat, by first understanding your feelings about what you are eating, and then making you align those feelings towards a particular food. For eg, if you have been advised to eat carrot as per your diet plan and you don’t like eating a carrot every day and wish it was a carrot cake instead, during the hypnotherapy sessions, you will be made to see and visualise the carrot in a healthy yet delicious way, so that you don’t miss the carrot cake, and still enjoy the carrot every day.”
 
 
 Binge eating without knowing when to stop or lack of attention to the calorie intake of certain food is the main reason of weight gain. There are emotional reasons to this. Dr  , a performance coach who uses hypnotherapy as a tool for behaviour modification, says, “For human beings, food and sex are the most primordial needs. The lack of love or communication in the absence of sex, leaves us with a void which needs to be filled. Often, people tend to fill this void with food. Hypnotherapy addresses the void that results in emotional eating and equips an individual with tools to deal with these emotions effectively. Regular sessions deal with these emotions and the negative self-defeating beliefs associated with it.”
 Whether it will work or not depends a lot on the target audience and on the one undergoing it, explains Sakina. So if it is someone who is super motivated to follow the diet and exercise regime, then they probably might not need hypnotherapy, but for people who are depressed and have low motivation levels, this therapy can work wonders.
 
 
 Like everything else in life, there is no quick fix to weight problems. So, don’t be under the impression that just hypnosis will help you lose weight. It has to be accompanied with a combination of traditional techniques for proper results. Warns Sakina, “Hypnotherapy is a complementary plan, which should be opted for alongside a good exercise and diet regime.” Dr Kanan reiterates, “It is in no way a substitution to physical exercise, although it can motivate a person to be more active.”
 
 Just like any other therapy, which is organised, hypnotherapy too is quite effective when continued the right way. Says Dr Kanan, “Hypnotherapy empowers and changes a person’s thought and behaviour. It makes them act in ways that leave them feeling happy and self-reliant. However, like all behavioural changes, it needs to be maintained by courage, humility and discipline.” 
 Adds Sakina, “It works best for people who diet for a long time, achieve the target, but then start to overeat again. And then they start feeling guilty about it, which makes them go on a diet again. For those who go through this yo-yo effect of diet, hypnotherapy along with a structured diet and exercise regime works best in the long term. It brings about a change in thinking, thus directing a person to a healthier lifestyle.”
 
 
 
