DEHRADUN: Laying bare the appalling   of Uttarakhand, its   on Monday revealed that only   are catering to the entire population of the  , which has the dubious distinction of being the biggest consumer of tobacco in north India.

 The apparent fallout of the scarcity of dental surgeons in the state is the alarming rise in the patients of oral cancer.
 
 According to experts, tobacco consumption remains one of the main reasons behind oral cancer, and lack of dental facilities has worsened the situation.
 
 Early detection of mouth cancer is quiet difficult, but with robust dental care infrastructure, the probability of mouth cancer can be reduced by several folds, experts said.
 
 Against the total sanctioned strength of 133 dental surgeons, 52% post lay vacant as on date, according to data released by Uttarakhand health department on Monday.
 
 A mere 64 dental surgeons are working in the state, which has a population of 10,116,752.
 
 Among the districts of the state, Bageshwar is bearing the maximum brunt. 
 
 Home to 2.6 lakh population, Bageshwar has no dental surgeon. The only doctor deployed in the district was transferred a year ago and the post was never filled.
 
 Speaking with TOI, additional director (dental services), KS Mehra, said, “Department is running short of dental experts. Bageshwar has no dental surgeon. But, we have conducted interviews and the posts will be filled very soon. One of the reasons behind increasing cases of oral cancer is of course poor oral care hygiene of people followed by lack of facilities in the remote areas of Uttarakhand.”
 
 According to the data, Nainital has the highest number of nine dental surgeons, followed by Tehri, Almora and Haridwar, which have seven dental surgeons respectively.
 
 According to villagers, health facilities in rural areas are the worst hit.
 
 “Forget about dental service, we cannot even think of delivering a child safely here because the Community Health Centre (CHC) has no physician. Doctors don’t want to work in the remote areas,” said 35-year-old Kiran Rani, a resident of Sampan village near Chakrata.
 
 Meanwhile, the health department is claiming that it will enhance oral health care facilities in remote areas very soon.
 
 Officiating director of health department, Dr DS Rawat, said, “Interviews of around 205 dental surgeons have already been conducted. Each district will have enough doctors soon.” 
 
