NEW DELHI: The Centre has formed a six-member committee to suggest ways to improve India’s   policy and look into the issue of subsidy for the pilgrimage in the light of the Supreme Court’s 2012 order which called for its gradual reduction, leading to total abolition by 2022.

 Minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas   asked the panel to submit report in two months on how the haj pilgrimage can be managed better. At present, national carrier   provides highly subsidised air tickets to the haj pilgrims.
 
 A revised haj policy is proposed to be made applicable for the 2018 pilgrimage. Former Consul General of India (CGI) in Jeddah Afzal Amanullah has been appointed as convener of the high-level panel. The members include retired Bombay high court judge S S Parkar, ex-Haj Committee of India chairman Qaiser Shamim, former Air India CMD Michael Mascarenhas and Muslim scholar Kamal Faruqui. Joint secretary in-charge of haj in the ministry of minority affairs J Alam is the member secretary.
 
 The panel will also figure out whether the pilgrims can travel to Saudi Arabia by paying less in the absence of the subsidy. “The expert committee has been formed and it will give us report in a month or two on how India’s haj policy can be improved, how the pilgrims can get maximum concessions and how haj can be managed better,” Naqvi said.
 
 “There are several issues relating to  . Some people are of the view that it should go, some say it should be there. The SC has given its verdict. Now the expert committee has been formed to look into these aspects. It will speak to all the stakeholders and soon, we will figure out some way,” he said when asked about the issue of floating global tender for air travel to haj.
 
 The ministry though clarified that the decision to set-up the committee does not mean that the government has any plan to scrap the subsidy. “The intention is to make an assessment and approach the subject accordingly,” Naqvi said.
 
 The haj subsidy issue has been a matter of debate for long and was dwelt upon by the Congress-led UPA. In 2012, the   had directed the government gradually the practice. The court had asked the government to invest the subsidy amount of approximately Rs 650 crore a year on educational and social development of the community.
 
 Saudi Arabia has increased India’s annual haj quota by 34,500 to take it to around 1.70 lakh. Hence, the issue of subsidy will need a deeper review to asses its continuation in future.
 
