KOLKATA: After months of aggressive criticism of the BJP-led government at the Centre and Prime Minister   over issues like demonetisation and Aadhaar, Bengal chief minister   has tempered her stance and is all set to redraw her strategy following the saffron landslide in   and Uttarakhand.

 While addressing a gathering in the city on Tuesday, the Bengal chief minister dipped into the tenets of democracy to separate the political differences between her party and BJP from the symbiotic ties between the Centre and state in a parliamentary dem-ocracy. 
 
 “We want the Centre-state relationship to thrive on understanding. Political parties may come and go but should not affect the spirit of co-operative federalism. Democracy demands that a political party should respect the other,” Mamata said.
 
 Striking a more conciliatory tone she said, “I have some questions regarding making Aadhaar compulsory for availing as many as 23 central projects. They include the mid-day meal and 100-day work schemes. How can this be possible? We are not saying that we won’t do Aadhaar card registration. But the beneficiaries should not be deprived till the registration process is complete.” The change of stance on Aadhaar, however, isn’t exactly a post-UP development. While Mamata kept raising her pitch over Aadhar in the run-up to the assembly polls and her party took to the streets against PM Modi, the CM quietly instructed the panchayat department to expedite the process of Aadhaar registration and seeding of Aadhaar numbers with bank accounts as mandated by the Centre. The CM and panchayat minister   emphasised on this in the recent conference on panchayats at Netaji Indoor Stadium.
 
 What angered Mamata was the Centre’s threat to discontinue food subsidy to school students beyond a time frame. “No one has the right to deprive people from the right to food. The powerful shouldn’t bulldoze others by dint of sheer power. This is our heritage, this is democracy,” the CM said on Tuesday. She then spoke at length on how the note ban had hit farmers hard, and put the common man in trouble. 
 
 But unlike Mayawati, Mamata never questioned the massive mandate for BJP in the country’s heartland. “A political party will come to power while some other may go. But this should not hamper our legacy of mutual respect. In a democracy, a political party may win or lose. But this is not the ultimate. We should keep in mind that people have the final say,” the CM said.
 
 While Mamata sounded reconciliatory to some present in the gathering, senior leaders felt she was also sending out a message to the party ranks on the eve of the panchayat polls. Sensing that the   would try to capitalise on the party’s spectacular performance in UP in the coming panchayat polls, the CM seized the opportunity to prepare her generals for a multi-pronged fight that may throw up some surprises.
 
 
