CUTTACK: Eoin Morgan very nearly pulled off a Houdini act as his team chased 382 in the second ODI here on Thursday . It seemed as if the England skipper would spoil  's fairytale comeback earlier in the day, but even though he got to three figures, the visitors eventually fell short by an agonizing 15 runs to hand Virat Kohli his first ODI series win.

 Morgan's ton (102 off 81 balls) was the last of three individual centuries on the benign Barabati Stadium pitch. It was man-of-thematch Yuvraj Singh -who hammered a career-best 150 (127b; 21x4, 3x6)-and his 256-run fourth-wicket stand with a scintillating   (134 off 122 balls; 10x4, 6x6), which clinched the deal for India.
 
 Yuvraj chose the best possible platform to silence skeptics, while MS Dhoni served timely reminder of his superlative batting prowess. Riding on these two experienced hands, India recovered from 253 to post a mammoth 3816, the highest total at this venue.
 
 India were struggling at 222 in the third over -with KL Rahul and Virat Kohli back in the pavilion -when Yuvraj strode out. The situation looked grim, more so after Dhawan too fell.
 
 But then, Yuvraj and Dhoni had other plans. Looking compact, Yuvraj was restrained initially before gradually unfurling his full array of strokes.The trademark flicks and short-arm pulls soon started to cause headache in the English ranks. At the other end, Dhoni played his usual percentage cricket, building up slowly for the acceleration in the end. The duo, who have engineered many Indian victories, also ran the singles hard. Yuvraj in full flight is a spectacle to savour and Dhoni seemed happy to play second fiddle.
 
 With four fielders outside the 30yard circle in the second powerplay , the duo stepped up a gear and pulverised the attack, with southpaw Yuvi reaching the coveted three-figure mark -his first ODI century since 2011 -in the 33rd over. It was a sight to behold as an emotional Yuvraj thumped the India crest with the bat handle.
 
 Dhoni survived a scare on 43 when Willey spilled a chance running back from mid on, but went on to put his foot firmly on the accelerator. The 200-run partnership was brought up in the 37th over. It wasn't a long wait for Dhoni as he brought up his 10th ODI ton, pulling Plunkett to deep square leg for a single.
 
 It was pure carnage for the England bowlers thereafter as Yuvraj and Dhoni kept blasting everything in sight.After Yuvraj fell, Dhoni in Kedar Jad hav's company pulled out all the stops before finally ending his marathon innings at 134.
 
 If the English bowling had been generous in their offerings to Yuvraj and Dhoni, the Indian pacers decided to reciprocate in kind. Although Jasprit Bumrah did manage to dismiss Alex Hales in the fourth over, the runs continued to flow at a steady rate as Roy and Joe Root took centrestage.
 
 With the dew taking its toll, Ravindra Jadeja appeared ordinary, forcing Kohli once again to fall back on his most trusted lieutenant, R Ashwin.This time, Ashwin did not disappoint.Coming from over the wicket for the first time in the series, Ashwin tossed one outside the off-stump, enticing Root to hit over the top. The Yorkshireman fell for the bait as his mistimed slog sweep opened the floodgates for India.
 
 Morgan and Moeen Ali took up the gauntlet but the steep asking rate continued to put pressure on the English duo. Jadhav's innocuous off-spin and Jadeja's profligacy at the boundary provided intermittent relief. Eventually, though, it all proved futile for England as Kohli walked off feeling relieved rather than ecstatic.
 
 
