Waking up to reality, the government finally decided to address the dismal public schooling system in the state. Hiking the allocation for primary education to Rs 18,266 crore, the CM’s budget speech hailed the role and collaboration of NGOs like Akshara Foundation, Sikshana, Azim Premji Foundation, among others in improving quality of education at government schools. However, the Right to Education Act found no mention in the speech.

 The upcoming academic year will include techniques to impart effective learning of English language from Class 1 onwards. Additionally, 10,000 trained graduate teachers will be recruited for government primary schools across the state, and 1,626 for high schools; 176 consolidated schools up to Class 12 will come up at gram panchayats, the chief minister said. The state government has decided to begin training 50,000 teachers and lecturers across the state.
 
 Free spectacles following eye tests, distribution of shoes and socks, milk for five days a week from July, uniforms and chudidhars for students and extension of fortified rice for four lakh students across four districts through midday meal scheme – the CM’s budget announced goodies galore for primary school children. Turning to technology to ensure quality education, the CM also spoke of the existing Shikshana Kirana scheme, adding that it’ll now introduce biometric attendance for school teachers.
 
 Less for higher education
 
 The defence ministry will set up the state’s second Sainik School in Bailhongala taluk of Belagavi district and it’ll be named the Sangolli Rayanna Sainik School. The first one in Vijayapura. 
 
 Free laptops for 1.5 lakh students
 
 While allocation for higher education has dipped to Rs 4,401 crore this year, the government has some treat in store for students across government institutions. Nearly 1.5 lakh students studying in medical, engineering, polytechnic and first-grade colleges will receive free laptops. In 2014, the government had proposed to distribute free laptops to students of I and II PUC and close to 10.5 lakh students were supposed to benefit from the scheme. However, then minister for primary and secondary education, Kimmane Ratnakar had said that the government decided to drop the scheme as it would have cost the state exchequer a whopping Rs 300 crore. 
 
 Raichur University will become a reality soon and hugely benefit students from across colleges in the Karnatak-Hyderabad region. All colleges in Raichur and Yadgir districts will be brought under this university. 
 
 Despite the lower allocation, the higher education department is setting up 23 girls hostel in polytechnic college at a cost of Rs 2 crore each in an attempt to improve the Gross Enrolment Ratio. The CM has also announced 25 new polytechnic colleges across rural areas at a cost of Rs 4 crore each, and 10 model SC/ST residential first-grade colleges along with girls’ and boys’ hostels.
 
 The state has also finally decided to look at the crumbling century-old University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering (UVCE). A sum of Rs 25 crore has been allocated for infrastructural upgradation of the institution. Also, a grant of Rs 5 crore will be disbursed to Karnataka College, Dharwad . 
 
 
