PUNE: Nearly 2,500 parents of students from two schools along   on Saturday called for action against the dumping and burning of garbage 100 metres from the schools' campuses. Around 2,500 students attend the two schools -   and  . 

 Around 845 students attend Pawar Public School, while 1,450 students study at the Nanded City Public School. 
 
 There are aksi nearly 20,000 residents in 6,000 flats in the Nanded City township.
 
 The parents claimed that garbage collected from five localities around Khadakwasla was being dumped along the banks of the Mutha river, posing a serious health risk to their children as well as residents of surrounding areas. Authorities said they were not in a position to do anything till a waste processing plant is set up or another solution is worked out.
 
 Addressing a news conference, Nanded City resident and advocate Gajanan Dhage said the problem was not a recent phenomenon. "We have noticed that garbage collected from Nanded and Shivane gram panchayats, and Warje, Uttamnagar and Kirkatwadi areas is being dumped here for a long time. Even construction debris is dumped here. Now, the issue has become worse with the garbage being burnt," he added.
 
 The dumping ground is around 100 metres from Pawar Public School and Nanded City Public School, around 3km downstream of Khadakwasla dam. "The parents first approached the schools to find a solution. Around a fortnight back, we had approached the gram panchayats of Nanded and Shivane villages, as well as zilla parisad officials, local police and the additional district collector to help stop the dumping, but to no avail," Dhage said.
 
 Shivane panchayat gram sevak Soma Khaire said, "We have no option as around 15-16 gram panchayats do not have a designated dumping area nor a processing plant. As a result, all solid waste is dumped at this place. However, we are working on two proposals to address the issue. We will propose to the district authorities to build a waste processing plant for all gram panchayats on a 2-acre plot, which is owned by the irrigation department. Another solution is to have a temporary place to dump the garbage which can later be collected by the  ." 
 
 However, joint municipal commissioner and head of PMC's solid waste management department, Suresh Jagtap, said, "We have not received any proposal from the gram panchayat. Moreover, the PMC is heavily loaded with solid waste generated in the city. The issue of processing garbage is being faced by 34 fringe villages and it cannot be PMC's liability." 
 
