Exam season is generally perceived to be a stressful period for students and their parents. However, there is a segment that that goes through an equally taxing time — and they are the teachers and professors. From constantly juggling between dealing with students and their doubts, setting exam papers, supervision and paper correction, they face immense pressure around this time. So, how do they maintain their cool at such times? BT finds out...

 
 
  
 The laughter therapy is not just relegated to the parks. The teaching faculty of   sometimes take a pause in the middle of the day for a laughter yoga session. Says Dr Vijay Dabholkar, principal of the college, “We organise such sessions often for our professors. It’s a great measure to help them get rid of stress. Earlier, we also conducted a series of workshops on time and stress management and goal setting that tell teachers how to dabble between tasks. These sessions are also extended to the non-teaching staff as they come across similar situations.” The college also organises yoga sessions daily for teachers daily and has an Internal Quality Assurance cell that ensures the mental well-being of teachers is taken care of.
  has also conducted a yoga session for its teaching staff. Professor Manjula Shrinivas, who heads the BMM department, adds, “We conduct this programme under our faculty development programme. Our staff works hard during this season and we want them to make it a part of their life.”
 Being in the profession for long makes it easier for many to balance the act. Girija Mohan, director of  , informs, “Our schedules are well-balanced, so our teachers do not find it difficult to handle tasks along with board exam corrections. We also conduct yoga sessions in school every alternate day, which teachers attend as per their timings.”
 
  
 
 
  
 Recreation is an ongoing year-round activity in many institutes, including IIT-B, Bhavan’s College among others as they have an in-house gym, yoga centre, swimming pool and indoor-outdoor games. It helps the teachers to unwind. Avnita Bir, director-principal, RN Podar School, says, “We all need time to pause, reflect and reinvent ourselves. One needs to disconnect with the routine in order to get fresh ideas. I’m currently reading a book called Thank You For Being Late and 
 sharing it with my colleagues. I constantly encourage them to take up some recreational activities, else one may lose their creative streak.” 
 
 
 
 Several colleges host workshops and lectures on stress management. Rashmi Bhure, professor who teaches political science at SIES Sion, elaborates, “The women’s development cell of our college had organised a stress management workshop last month. After finishing the syllabus, we are supposed to set the paper and go for corrections to the University post exams. Many of us are expected to go there all through the month of May and dedicate seven to eight hours on a daily basis. Simple tips given in these workshops come quite handy.” 
 Adds Dr Dabholkar, “We have a programme called   for students, teachers and non-teaching faculty. We call people from different organisations to speak about how one should lead a great life. In addition, we have a dedicated counsellor who visits the college every Wednesday for teachers and students alike.”
 
 
 
 Several institutes also take this period as an opportunity to collaborate and bond with each other. Adds Avnita, “Our faculty is in the midst of paper corrections. Currently, we conduct a daily workshop for an hour or two, where teachers learn to work together by collaborating and discussing new things they have learnt through the year. We’ve observed that they love learning from each other and it’s a more personal affair. It helps one get through routine life better.”
 
