Bhavnagar: Until April last year, 45-year-old Kamini Patel, wife of Bhavnagar-based industrialist Mehul Patel was a housewife. However, since her 15-year-old son Chitrang Patel, developed interest in shooting, she began accompanying him to the shooting range. However, she too got interested in the sport and now is a ‘renowned’ shooter in the country. 

 She won gold medals at the state-level and zonal competitions where she participated along with her son. Both, mother and son are now ‘renowned’ shooters in the country in different categories.
 
 “Since Chitrang was interested in shooting, we went to Bhuvneshwari Pith in Gondal in March last year where aspiring shooters are trained. We rented a house in Gondal. Chitrang used to go to practice at shooting range and I stayed back at the rented house and got bored. So, one day I decided to give him company at shooting range and started practising along with him,” Kamini told TOI, adding that this was the beginning of her journey.
 
 In fact, in April 2016, Chitrang and Kamini took part at the state-level shooting competition organized by   near Memdavad. Chitrang and Kamini won gold in trap shooting in junior category and senior woman category respectively.
 
 “Chitrang excelled in shooting and we decided to provide him professional training. So he shifted to Delhi in July 2016. We rented a house in Delhi where Chitrang and Kamini began training for shooting under coach and Arjuna awardee  ,” said Chitrang’s father Mehul Patel.
 
 Meanwhile, Chitrang and Kamini participated at the zonal shooting competition in October 2016 organized by the   (NRIA). Here, Chitrang won three medals (gold in single trap junior category, silver in senior category as well as in double-trap events). Kamini won two gold medals (in single and double-trap categories). 
 
 After zonal level, Chitrang and Kamini participated in the national-level competition in November last at Jaipur. In this competition, Chitrang became a ‘renowned’ shooter in single and double-trap shooting categories while Kamini became ‘renowned’ shooter in the double-trap category. “Kamini is the first woman from Gujarat to become ‘renowned shooter’,” said a proud Mehul.
 
 Chitrang and Kamini have qualified for the national-level shooters tournament. They are camping in Patiala for the next-level competition. Chitrang, a class IX student, is preparing for next year's national-level shooting event.
 
