LUCKNOW: Crying foul over allegations of   against him, sitting MLA and party candidate from Sultanpur (Sadar) assembly constituency   on Tuesday claimed innocence and sought   into the incident.

 “There was similar attempt to malign my image in 2013, just before the Lok Sabha elections and now when assembly elections are round the corner I am being accused of murder,” said Verma, adding that the entire sequence of events smack of a political conspiracy against him.
 
 A 22-year-old women was found dead near her house late Saturday night. Her father later lodged an FIR with the police naming Verma and his unidentified aides. In 2013, the victim had accused the MLA and his associates of gang rape but later filed an affidavit before the court stating that the MLA was not involved in the case after investigations revealed that at the time of the incident Verma was present at the state assembly and this was counter confirmed on the basis of his cellphone location.
 
 The Samajawadi Party also came in open support of Verma demanding a time-bound   probe into the case. “Government at the Center should order CBI probe and find out if the MLA was involved in the case,” said party chief spokesperson and senior minister in Akhilesh cabinet Rajendra Chaudhary. “But this must happen within a few days as delay in inquiry will adversely affect the electoral prospects of the party candidate,” he said.
 
 Claiming that the MLA had been targeted earlier as well in a similar manner, party spokesperson Juhi Singh said in 2013, the victim’s father had lodged an FIR accusing an unidentified woman and her associates. Later in court, the victim named the MLA as an accused, only to withdraw her charge through an affidavit after it came to light that the MLA was present in the state assembly at the time of crime, Juhi Singh said.
 
 Drawing parallels with the   incident in which bodies of two sisters were found hanging from a tree, Juhi said initially the state government was blamed for lawlessness and the incident was described as murder but later CBI found it was a case of suicide. “Investigations in the case are underway and law will take its course,” she said, adding that the guilty will not be spared irrespective of who they are.
 
 
