PATNA: The Bihar BJP on Tuesday welcomed the I-T raids on the Delhi-NCR premises associated with RJD chief   and his family in connection with benami land deals worth Rs 1,000 crore. “It’s high time Bihar CM   took action against the Lalu clan’s similar benami properties in the state,” said former deputy CM  .

 Modi, who held a series of pressers in the last 40 days to expose alleged benami land deals involving Lalu family, also urged Nitish to sack Lalu’s sons, deputy CM Tejashwi Yadav and forest and health minister Tej Pratap.
 
 The leader of the opposition in the legislative council also urged Nitish to lodge an FIR against Tej Pratap and Tejashwi under the Prevention of Corruption Act and Special Court Act. “The duo are owners or shareholders in a number of shell firms formed for converting the black money generated by Lalu in multi-crore fodder scam into white,” the BJP MLC alleged.
 
 Nitish had on Monday refused to take action on Modi’s allegations about Lalu’s alleged benami properties and shell firms, pleading that such issues did not fall under the state government’s purview and that the Centre ought to take action if Modi had evidences.
 
 Modi said on Tuesday Nitish gave such a statement because he knew about the I-T department’s proposed raids. “Nitish had been mum for the last 40 days... He broke his silence all of a sudden just a day before the raids. Was it a mere coincidence?” Modi asked while talking to mediapersons on the sidelines of his weekly ‘janata darbar’ at his official residence.
 
 Modi alleged Nitish didn’t act against Lalu and his sons because he feared his government would fall. “Nitish is a clever politician. He is playing the game of ‘saanp bhi marr jaye and lathi bhi na toote’,” Modi said.
 
 According to Modi, most of the Laly family’s benami lands are in Bihar. “Lalu stopped acquiring assets in his name after he was made an accused in the fodder scam. He started acquiring properties in the name of his wife   and sons and daughters,” he said.
 
