NEW DELHI: Unlike previous heads of the   ( ), Pahlaj Nihalani is not shy of the word ‘censor’. His critics say that he plays the heavy-handed parent, hacking movies at will, rather than letting the audience make informed choices. Nihalani seems to agree with them. What drives him is family values; “What have we come to if the word sanskari is a gaali,” he asked.

 Nihalani was the star attraction at a ceremony organised by former BJP MLA Vijay Jolly and his Delhi Study Group, which also commiserated the death of MP and actor  , and welcomed newly elected councillors and MLAs. Some of the leaders announced their thanks with a fervent “Bharat Mata ki Jai”. At one point, an audience member blew a conch shell to register his applause.
 
 For this audience, the controversial CFBC chairman was a hero. Look at the brutality and sexual content on screen these days in the name of freedom of expression, Jolly said. “Indian traditions will not be sold out to western culture,” he asserted, and told Nihalani to persist with the responsibility that PM Modi had entrusted him, even if he was labeled “saffron” by some. “More power to your scissors,” he said.
 
 Nihalani, after describing PM Modi as the Bahubali who thought a decade ahead for his nation, said that his own actions as CFBC chief had been blown out of proportion by a hostile media and social media, and now two-bit producers were using the CFBC as a platform for publicity.
 
 82% of the films before the CFBC had been certified with U, UA or A labels, and only a few of the rest had been held up after the revising committee stage. But it was his job to flag the things that are objectionable, said Nihalani. “If you see some of the content that comes, even the men on the examining committee are ashamed to be around the women on the committee,” he claimed.
 
 Censorship is essential, he says; it used to be the police that censored films, and now it is successive certification boards. Television and digital media needs censorship too, he says, digressing into a story of a couple who had been married over three decades, but were on the brink of divorce because of the wife’s “nasha” for porn on her mobile.
 
 His view of the job is all about a sense of family decorum; a movie is a social event, watched with children, neighbours and friends. “Everyone has a censor in their homes. At home, a mother will censor certain words around her children, and children themselves won’t tell their parents certain things. We all have censors in our minds,” he said.
 
 And his job, in Nihalani’s view, is not just to be a moral overseer, but to set things right, correct errant filmmakers. For instance, a reference to Hanuman in the upcoming movie Sarkar was snipped because the dialogue garbled the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, he said. The audience laughed in understanding.
 
 Meanwhile, the courts contradict each other on this business, Nihalani pointed out. They told the CFBC their job was to certify, not cut, when it came to  , but then asking it why it allowed Jolly LLB to get away with some of the things it did.
 
 In his view, previous CFBC chairpersons (in the Congress dispensation) would only come to office now and then. There was a lot of corruption, it was full of “paisa khaake picture pass” brokers. But Pahlaj Nihalani takes his job very seriously indeed. In line with Modiji’s vision, we have transparency and efficiency and online certification. “Now everybody knows that the censor certificate is a license, like a passport or visa. Now everybody knows how important the censor board is,” says Nihalani.
 
