KOLKATA: Apollo Gleneagles Hospital is set to be charged with medical negligence and over-billing in the Sanjoy Roy death case. The six-member enquiry committee constituted by the health department to probe the case filed its report on Saturday. Even though the health department refused to confirm the receipt of the report, sources indicated that it has been submitted and held the hospital guilty on several counts. Meanwhile, the Phoolbagan police station recorded statements of three doctors from Apollo and the hospital’s security in-charge on Saturday.
Even though Apollo, in its report to the health department, had claimed that Roy had three injuries, the post-mortem report has mentioned four. “After analyzing all the information and the reports, the committee has held the hospital guilty of both negligence and over-billing. There are gaps and loopholes in the hospital report as well,” said a source.
 
 The health department, however, said that the report will be submitted on Monday. “We expect the report by the first half of Monday,” said BS Satpathy, director of health services. The enquiry committee is headed by medicine expert Partha Pratim Mukherjee of National Medical College. Apollo emergency in-charge Arijit Bose, who was in duty when Sanjoy Roy had been admitted, was called to the Phoolbagan police station on Saturday afternoon. Bose, who reached the station at 3.30 pm, spent three hours interacting with officers. He was followed by two more. As many 16 from the hospital, including doctors and hospital staff will be called to record their statements with the police.
 
 On Thursday, Apollo CEO and President Rupali Basu resigned from her post. CEO   was handed over temporary charge. Placing the West Bengal Clinical Establishment bill being placed at the Assembly on Friday, chief minister   made it clear that unscrupulous clinical establishments will be taken to task. The enquiry report will tighten the noose around Apollo, which has been accused of over-billing and inhuman treatment by Mamata.
 
