Bharuch/Surat: A major crisis of salinity ingress once again threatens to hit operations of industries in Dahej and Vilayat with Narmada riverbed drying up completely and sea water gushing in as deep as 40 km inside.

 A similar situation had arisen last year, albiet in May, which had forced majority of the hundreds of units to curtail production after saline water entered the six borewells on the riverbed. The borewells located in Angareshwar, Nandh and Zanor are the major source of industrial water for nearly 130 industrial units in Dahej and Vilayat. 
 
 The grim situation has sprung up due to inadequate volume of water being released into the downstream from the   dam. Government prefers to give Narmada water to the farmers instead of releasing it in the river, more so in this election year. 
 
 RG Kanungo, superintending engineer, SSNNL, "There is a continuous release of 600 cusec, which is required. In the worst scenario also, this discharge will continue."
 
 But sources said that at least 1,000 cusec is required to check sailnity ingress. At present, the water level in the dam is 119 m.
 
 In fact, the saline water has reached up to Kabirwad, the famous religious place located on the Narmada river bank and thronged by thousands of local tourists.
 
 Last year, all affected groups like Bharuch Citizen Council, Kisan Sangathan, fishermen association, religious leaders and sarpanchs of 32 villages along with industries association of Dahej and Vilayat had raised the issue in a big way. The chloride level in the underground water had reached alarmingly high levels, making it useless for industries.
 
 The industries draw approximately 75 million gallons per day (MGD) water from these borewells. 
 
 MA Hania, president, Dahej Industries Association said. " No lesson has been learnt from past years. The work on long-awaited 50 MGD Karjan pipeline is also halted. Due to high chloride level, industries would have to curtail production to half."
 
 Ashu Pareek, president,  , said, "Water is the main raw material for industries. The salinity ingress has become an annual problem and the only immediate solution is more discharge of water from Sardar Sarovar dam in the downstream. 
 
 Last year, Reliance Industries was forced to bring water in a ship from Hazira and Jamnagar to continue their production at IPCL.
 
 The industrial belt houses big units like Birla Copper, Grasim Industries, Gujarat Fluorochemicals, ONGC Petroadditions Ltd (OPaL), which are dependent on the borewell water for their operation.
 
 
