Nagpur: To bring an end to illegal slaughtering of animals, city NGO Sukrut Nirman Charitable Trust has once again moved to the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The NGO has demanded punitive action against the illegal meat processing units of the state. Based on a petition filed by the NGO, the Western Zone bench of NGT, Pune has issued notices to secretaries of state’s animal husbandry, environment and public health departments. Apart from this, notices have also been issued to state’s directorate of industries, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, convener of state slaughter house committee and over 15 meat processing units of the state that are not complying environmental norms. Sukrut had earlier filed a PIL in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court in 2012 which was later shifted to NGT on June 18, 2014. President of the NGO Kanakrai Savadia had challenged setting up of two meat processing and cold storage units — Shahin Frozen Foods and Best Cold Storage Pvt Ltd — in Taroda near temple town of Shegaon.  In its judgement of December 24, 2014, the NGT had directed MPCB to ensure that both the industries maintain record of sourcing of slaughtered animals. The board’s member secretary was further directed to review environmental performance and consents issued to both the industries and also issue appropriate time-bound directions for upgradation of pollution control systems. However after the NGT blasted the pollution board for not following Supreme Court directives while issuing licences to meat processing units, MPCB had ordered closure of both the units. In the present petition, the NGO has demanded that the same directions should be applicable to all the meat processing and cold storage units being run in the state. “Based on the information sought under Right to Information Act, we submitted various representations to the respondents but in vain. Flouting NGT’s directives, MPCB has not directed the units to maintain records of sourcing of slaughtered animals along with other necessary details. Large-scale animal slaughtering is done for the functioning of these units,” the petitioner stated. As per the petition, the board failed in ensuring practice of environmental norms including solid waste storage and scientific disposal. “The units generate significant amount of solid waste, mostly in the form of bones with some fat flesh. Rather than disposing this waste at bone mills for further processing, the industries store it within their premises over a long period causing pollution,” Savadia said. He further pointed out that despite the state government’s ban on beef, cows are butchered and beef is sold openly in markets.  The petitioner has prayed for immediate shut down of the meat processing units. “The board should provide them consent to operate only after inspection by the state slaughter house committee which should ensure that NGT’s directives are followed,” the petitioner stated. 