CHENNAI: Content is King. The July 21-23 weekend not only proved this once again, but brought back crowds to theatres and smiles to theatre-owners, whose spirits were down after they increased ticket prices, anywhere between 18 and 28%, post  .

 Two Tamil films, ‘Vikram Vedha’, starring   and Madhavan as lead stars, and ‘Meesaya Murukku’, featuring ‘Hip Hop Tamizha’ Adhi as the hero, have set the box office ringing across Tamil Nadu. In addition, an English movie, ‘Dunkirk’ by Christopher Nolan, and a Telugu film, ‘Fidaa’, featuring ‘Premam’ fame Sai Pallavi, have added more fire to the box office.
 
 Ever since the ticket prices were increased, it was a fact that theatres were struggling to attract crowds over the last two weekends. That seems more due to lack of strong or fresh content than a direct implication of the increased ticket prices.
 
 “We have had a fantastic opening for all the new films released this Friday, with most shows going houseful over the weekend. The footfalls saw a dramatic increase and about 60 to 65% of tickets were booked through online,” said K Meenakshisundaram, vice president, Mayajaal, a 16-screen multiplex on ECR near the city. “This proves that if you offer good content, people will come to theatres to watch  , irrespective of GST and online booking charges,” he said.
 
 While ‘Vikram Vedha’, a film on police encounter did extremely well in the A centres among others, the surprise package seems to be Hip Hop Tamizha’s ‘Meesaya Murukku’, which had a great opening across the A, B and C centres. “Adhi, whose popularity soared among the state’s youth during the   protest for Jallikattu, seemed to have kept it intact, as youth thronged the theatres, which screened his film, from Friday morning itself,” an industry observer pointed out.
 
 “The content is definitely very good for all the films released this weekend. As a result, theatres across the state, including B and C centres are reporting good crowds,” leading distributor and industry spokesman Tiruppur K Subramaniam told TOI.
 
 “All regions have reported good collections and this weekend brought back crowds to theatres. The footfall over the weekend in our mall has been excellent,” says Abirami S Ramanathan, president, Tamil Nadu Theatre Owners’ Federation.
 
 Will this momentum sustain? “With the new films having received a great opening, we expect their collections to sustain over the next weekend too. After that, begins the season for big films with Dhanush’s ‘VIP-2’ and Ajit’s ‘Vivegam’ set for successive release. Then, the school holidays and the festival season will keep up the momentum,” said Mayajaal’s Meenakshisundaram.
 
 
