NAGPUR: Swedish bus-maker Scania had launched   — now named Green Bus — in association with   (NMC) and ministry of road transport and highways in August 2014. Now, NMC has received a proposal from taxi aggregator Ola to launch an   bus service in Nagpur.

 The development comes close to the union road transport ministry’s proposed launch of the country’s first e-taxi service in Nagpur on May 26.
 
 In its two-page proposal, Ola has evinced interest in launching a pilot project — Electric operated bus — in Nagpur. “The project will be launched in association with Nagpur Municipal Corporation,” it stated.
 
 Initially, the app-based aggregator proposes to operate one 32-seater bus between   and Wardhaman Nagar via Sitabuldi. It has already approached Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL), seeking permission to set up two charging centres — one each at Nagpur airport and Wardhaman Nagar.
 
 “NMC has asked Ola to approach State Transport Authority (STA) and clear the process of permissions under Maharashtra Motor Vehicles Act,” said a source in NMC’s transport department. Currently, there is no rule in the Motor Vehicle Act allowing plying of either electric or battery-operated buses.
 
 The government had amended the rules under the MVA to allow ethanol buses too. NMC and Scania are operating five green buses on major routes.
 
 As per the taxi aggregator’s proposal, one fully charged bus can travel 80km. For fast charging, the bus will have multiple charging facility and this will ensure continuous service.
 
 City RTO Sharad Jichkar confirmed that an inquiry has come up and they have asked the operator to approach STA in Mumbai. The RTA has only given conditional approval to operate 20 electric operated taxis only in city limits on pilot basis for three months, he clarified.
 
 Besides the bus, the aggregator is all set to operate electric taxis this month. For smooth operation of electric run taxis, Ola needs charging points. “It has planned over two dozen charging centres in the city and the work on these centres is underway in full swing,” said a source. The charging centres will come up at places like Nagpur Airport (on Wardha Road), Wardhaman Nagar, Kamptee Road, Koradi Road, Gorewada Road, Central Avenue etc.
 
 However, Ola has sought permission for only two so far. Superintending engineer (MSEDCL) Manish Wath told TOI that the power company has received only two proposals from Ola for setting up of two charging points — one near Airport and one in Wardhaman Nagar. MSEDCL has asked the aggregator to install 200 KV transformers for the purpose. These charging points will not only charge buses but also work for taxis, said the source.
 
