Bhopal: The Koh-e-fiza police claimed to have cracked the rape and   case of a 6-year-old girl, who was found hanging in her house located in Barela village near Lalghati on March 15.

 Samples from her body were sent to state forensic science laboratory in Sagar along with the samples of 11 suspects for a DNA test. The sample of semen of one of the suspects matched with the sample found on the deceased’s body.
 
 The suspect, a member of the family, murdered her and then hanged her body while concocting the story of suicide. Police will now soon arrest the accused.
 
 According to police, the victim’s body was found hanging in a room built on the terrace of her two-storeyed house around 6 pm.
 
 Police said on the fateful day, the children were watching TV while their mother had gone to market and father was at his mutton shop in Bajaria area.
 
  Around 5.30 pm, the victim’s elder sister asked her to bring dried clothes from the top floor, police said.
 
 When the girl did not return for more than half-an-hour, her elder sister went out to check on her only to find the victim hanging from the ceiling of the room from her dupatta, police said. The victim’s sisters informed about the incident to their tenant and rushed her to the hospital where she was declared dead. Her family members initially insisted on not conducting an autopsy but agreed after police counselled them. Police found the statements of the family members as misleading. In July, police registered a case of rape, unnatural sex and murder under relevant sections of IPC and POCSO Act after report from regional forensic science laboratory. Three teams were formed to probe the case. Police recorded statements of all the people who used to visit the family including their tenants. Based on investigation, police made a list of 11 suspects including her family members.
 
 ASP Zone III Rajesh Bhadouria said the samples of these 11 suspects were sent for DNA examination to the Sagar forensic lab. One of the samples matched with that of a suspect, who is a member of the family, he said. Police will come up with more details in a day or two.
 
 
