CHENNAI/NEW DELHI: Caught between protesting jallikattu fans and a non-committal Union government, the   government will attempt a hard bargain when chief minister   meets Prime Minister   on Thursday.

 Leading the negotiations with the 10,000-odd protestors on the Marina beach in the wee hours of Thursday, minister K Pandiarajan said the BJP had made a commitment to Jayalalithaa to bring in an ordinance.
 
 The chief minister, sources said, will reiterate this when he meets the PM. There was a sense of belligerence too, when Pandiarajan spoke earlier in the day. “It is wrong logic to cite a court order against promulgation of an ordinance since it encroaches the author ity of the President,“ he said, adding that if the PM continued to be elusive, AIADMK MPs, and ministers from the state would meet President  . Meanwhile, AIADMK general secretary V K   offered to send the MPs, besides initiating legal action against People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (Peta).
 
 Earlier in the day, OPS met DGP T K Rajendran and Chennai police commissioner S George, IG (intelligence) K N Sathiyamurthy and senior bu reaucrats. After the chief minister said there was unanimity in Tamil Nadu on the demand for jallikattu, DMK working president M K Stalin wished the CM a success. “Jallikattu plea will be strengthened if the CM takes with him an all-party delegation and representatives of the agitators,“ he said.
 
 In Delhi, meanwhile, a blame game has been on.Union environment minister Dave last week blamed the previous UPA government for the current mess. He had on January 11 tweeted, “The mother of problem is the Congress-led UPA government which included bulls in performing list in 2011.“ He also tweeted that the matter is pending in the Supreme Court and the government is waiting for the decision. The apext court last Thursday rejected a plea seeking to allow the controversial sport played during Pongal festival in Tamil Nadu and reserved its verdict on a batch of petitions challenging the Centre's notification allowing the bull-taming sport.
 
 The Centre had in January last year issued a notification lifting ban on Jallikattu in Tamil Nadu with certain restrictions. It was, however, challenged in the Supreme Court by Animal Welfare Board of India, and Peta India, a Bangalore-based NGO and others.The court had in 2014 banned jallikattu on grounds of animal cruelty . It had on January 21 last year refused to re-examine its 2014 judgement. On July 26 last year, it had said that just because jallikattu was a centuries-old tradition, it could not be justified.
 
