 
Mumbai, February 2nd, 2016: The   (Kozhikode), ranked among the top 10 Indian B-schools in collaboration with TSW, started enrolling the 9th batch of students for its   (EPGP). Compared to the last year, the program saw a more than 40 % rise in enrolment this year.
 
  This program, designed especially for working professionals, was lauded at its inaugural ceremony itself by a number of esteemed guests from the academic field. Mr. Ajit Singh - Country HR Leader & Vice President at Encore Capital Group, was the chief guest at the function. He spoke to the students about how the global workplace was changing, and how the life-changing program would give their professional career a massive boost. 
 
  "To bring about change in this fast-changing world, it is imperative that one is ready to change oneself; the EPGP program allows one to unlearn and relearn the necessary skills and gain new age business acumen," Mr. Singh, said, adding: "The technological advancement in teaching, and the ready network that   provides makes for a fabulous combination to help great minds become greater." 
 
  Others Guests of Honour present were - Prof. Manoranjan Dhal, Chairperson, EPGP; Prof. C Raju, Chairperson, Executive, Education & Admissions Committee; Prof.S.S.S.Kumar, Dean of Academics; Prof. Debabrata Chatterjee, Dean of Administration; Prof. Kulbhushan Balooni, Director-In-Charge; and Mr. Anish Srikrishna, President, Times Centre for Learning Ltd. 
 
  The program offers the participants an opportunity to learn from the best in the industry through workshops and discussions on real-life cases throughout the course in their classroom module. The participants would also have an opportunity to learn from their peers. The program offers significant exposure to key business concepts and strategies in an intensive format to its participants without having to take leave from their jobs. 
 
  The technological advancement brought on board by having TSW as the learning partner will enable the course to reach participants across the country through a virtual interactive module delivered at TCLL centres. 
 
  This rigorous two-year program spread over 700 plus hours ensures that its participants learn the fundamentals of core management subjects in the first year. In the second year, "functional specialisation" subjects are offered to sharpen business acumen among the students through live interactive modes of training held in the evenings at Times Learning Centres across India. 
 
  Speaking at the event, Mr. Anish Srikrishna, President, Times Centre for Learning Ltd. said: "As a technology-provider and learning partner, TSW is tremendously pleased with the demand and respect that the EPGP course has gathered. As a learning centre that believes in excellence, we are very happy to see that the program's focus has always been on executives getting an experience of the practical as well as the theoretical aspects of management." 
 
  "Moving into a fast evolving, and increasingly competitive world of business, it is imperative that executives receive a helping hand that would propel them forward in their career," he added. 
 
  The coming together of IIMK and TCLL makes it easier and more plausible for corporates and individuals alike to nurture talent for the future leaders, which only gives us hope about building the leaders of tomorrow. 
 
  To know more visit - http://iimk.ac.in/ or http://timestsw.com/ 
 
  
 
 
  Started in 1997 with its Postgraduate Programme (PGP), the   (IIMK) is on a high growth trajectory today, offering widest range of academic programmes in the field of management education. These include Fellow Program in Management, Executive PG Programs, Management Development Programs and Faculty Development Programs. IIMK set up a Satellite campus at Infopark, Kochi, in 2013 dedicated to Executive Education 
 
  
 
  Times Centre for Learning (TCLL), the professional education initiative of The Times of India Group, is focused on fulfilling career aspirations of millions of learners through learner centric innovation and strategic collaborations. The TCLL journey began with TimesPro, a brand focused on delivering employability programs across sectors. Over time, TCLL's breadth of offerings has grown to include executive education via state-of-the-art edu-tech solutions to working professionals under a new brand TSW (The Second Wind). 
 
  TSW has a vision to make world-class education accessible to aspiring business leaders through strategic collaborations. By partnering with global and Indian educational institutions of excellence, TSW creates offerings for working executives that will hone their skills and help them build a more rewarding career. Besides building leadership and management competencies, TSW programs help the learners to enhance their professional network and embellish personal brand value. 
 
  Press Release by TSW via Brandwire.in
 
