BHOPAL: With   BJP banking on brand Shivraj for the 2018 election, the state is going to host Prime Minister   and BJP president   within a month of each other.

 Both   and Shah are coming here for the   Sewa Yatra, with the PM due to preside over the culmination of the mega conservation campaign in Amarkantak, the source of the river, on May 11. Modi may launch a nationwide river conservation programme here. The buzz in political circles is getting louder over the PM’s visit.
 
 Sources say PM Modi will decide the criteria for party tickets for the next election on the basis of performance of MLAs and leaders. During a recent meeting of MLAs at his residence, CM had said that performance would be the sole basis for party tickets. Modi's proposed visit is also important because he will evaluate welfare schemes undertaken by the state government. 
 
 “Narmada Sewa is an ambitious conservation project and the Prime Minister’s visit will add purpose to the entire programme where participants, contributors and public will be directly involved in future planning,” the CM said at a review meeting on Wednesday. 
 
 Narmada Sewa Yatra passes through 16 districts along the river, touching 1.5 crore voters, and fits in with BJP’s political strategy of saffron push, social equality, de-addiction and poverty alleviation. Sources in BJP said that after the triumph in Uttar Pradesh, the Modi wave will work in MP also in 2018. “Brand Modi has emerged as a powerful synonym for development and welfare for the poor. It is inscribed in the memory of people that Modi government’s pro-poor policy works everywhere. Modi’s popularity and acceptance has been proved,” said BJP state president Nandkumar Singh Chouhan on Wednesday. 
 
 BJP national president Amit Shah will attend the   in Jabalpur on April 17. Sources in BJP said the party leadership may add more names from Madhya Pradesh in the Modi cabinet as a reshuffle is in the offing. Also, some senior national officer-bearers may be sent back to their home state to focus on the elections, they said. 
 
 Shah had played a major role during the much talked about cabinet rejig in July last year. He not only cleared the names but also added some criterion to the performance of ministers, say sources. 
 
