NAGPUR: With an eye on the niche slot of adventure fiction, 29 year old   has debuted with his novel ‘EMEG A face off with fear’, which he describes as a compilation of his real life experiences. “Lot of Indian writers attempt romantic fiction. I deliberately selected adventure as it has not been explored much. 

 Besides foreign readers have this feeling that Indian authors lack in building up drama and have grammatical issues too,” he says explaining why his book is attracting readers across the world.
 
 Chandwani, who runs an e-education business in the city, did his engineering from a local college before going to   for an MBA. The extensive travels that his job as a business developer entailed, his love for adventure sports and the observations that he made while living abroad all provided him with sufficient material to write this book. “I was involved in a skydiving accident which kept me in the hospital for three months.
 
  I did a lot of thinking and underlined three subjects, of patriotism, atheism and feminism to build this book on,” he says. “The accident taught me not to be crazy and over confident. 
 
 I have seen how women are discriminated over every issue and are victims of stereotypes not just in India but abroad too and I believe that rule of the land must always be followed and freedom of expression should never be misused,” he says and adds that his break up with his girlfriend over social and religious issues also made for the elements of atheism in the book.
 
 Living with people of different nationalities brought on the ideas of one world in the young writer. “The words EMEG stand for El Mundoes Grande which in Spanish means the world is big enough. I have had Spanish and Pakistani friends and have realized that whatever our prejudices but as human beings we all are same,” he says about his dream of living in a borderless world.
 
 Starting in February 2017, by   completed writing 70,000 words which make for 276 pages of the book. It was released on June 22 on five online sites. “So far 3000 copies have been sold. I plan to give part of the royalty money for the Maoist hit CRPF families of Chhattisgarh where my parents reside,” he says.
 
