AURANGABAD: The long cherished dream of the municipal body to strengthen the water supply system in some of the troubled spots will soon be a reality as the authorities are installing specially designed booster pumps at three locations in the city. The Rs 45 lakh project has entered its final stage and is likely to be over within the next 15-20 days. 

 Once the installation is completed, the new facility would address the grave issue of water scarcity in many pockets in these areas. Talking to TOI, municipal commissioner D M  , said, “We believe that majority of the residents will get tap water as per schedule.” 
 
 Mugalikar said that he is also planning to introduce some more steps aimed at improving the water supply. Installation of internal pipelines and curbing leakages will also be addressed. “I have asked the concerned officers to visit the troubled spots and try to resolve it at soon as possible,” he added. 
 
 In a bid to make considerable improvement in the water supply system at Jai Vishwa Bharati Colony, Delhi Gate and Jubilee Park, the municipal authorities have been installing heavy duty booster pumps that would fill the respective elevated storage reservoirs (ESRs) to the brim enabling the authorities to supply water in the nearby localities as per schedule. 
 
 For years, residents in the localities have been complaining about erratic water supply and low pressure in taps. “The consumers are not receiving water as desired because we could not fill the ESRs. Leakages and illegal water connections in the main supply line are the major hurdles that do not allow the ESRs to fill properly. But, now, we are installing the specially designed pumps at the base of the ESRs which will fill the facilities within a very short span of time,” said U G Shirsat deputy engineer in the civic body. 
 
 The elevated water storage reservoirs in the city receive water from Nakshtrawadi water treatment plant through gravity. There is a network of main supply line that has interlinked the ESRs, but over the years, the network has developed leakages. Besides, many illegal consumers have also availed connections from main line despite the fact that the line is not meant for consumers. Ideally, the consumers should get water through ESRs.
 
