KOZHIKODE: The office-bearers of the Jama’at-e-Islami were a little bit apprehensive when they approached the   temple authorities in   district with a request to let them use the temple premises for their district conference. But they were pleasantly surprised to see the reaction.

 “We gave a written request and they immediately agreed. The ground we identified for the conference earlier was not spacious to accommodate all the programmes,” said Jama’at area secretary Basheer Shivapuram.
 
 The conference held on February 18 and 19 in Padne village, from where 11 persons had left the country to join the terror outfit  , thus scripted a new chapter in communal harmony in the state. The temple premises was the venue of an exhibition and allied conferences for three days.
 
 Jama’at had deliberately selected Padne for the conference as it wanted to send a message across to the Kerala society. “The line of thought that attracted the youth who left the country were never in the mainstream of Padne which always upheld a pluralistic culture. Things have not changed in Padne even after the unfortunate incident,” said Basheer.
 
 The theme of the conference was ‘Islam: The religion of equilibrium’. “Jama’at always stood for diversity of faith though our detractors have always said other things about us. Even while sticking on to our faith, we stand for human relations and values,” said Basheer.
 
 The temple committee secretary, Suresh Mamuni, said they didn’t have to think twice when they got the request. “The temple is situated in a Muslim majority locality. There are only a handful of Hindus in the surroundings. Muslims help is the conduct of the temple festival held once in three years,” he said.
 
 Suresh said Padne has never thought along communal lines in its history. “There had been some political clashes but never any communal trouble,” he said. The disappearance of the youth has not affected the Hindu-Muslim unity in the village, he said. “ There are instances of youth revolting against the parents in many parts of Kerala and a similar incident took place here too,” he added.
 
