'Warning: This video has graphic content. Viewer discretion is advised.' This disclaimer might come in the beginning of videos with graphic content, but no such discretion is advised when it comes to suicide or murder videos. That's because nobody suspects that the turn of events in a video being live-streamed online will turn horrific and will broadcast someone's murder or suicide. Last week, a US gunman who was accused of murdering someone and posting the feed on Facebook, killed himself. The murder video shot by him was widely viewed before it was removed from Facebook. Back home, around the same time, a 32-year-old man hanged himself from a ceiling fan in Sonepat and live-streamed the suicide on his Facebook page. The increasing number of such instances is alarming, and YouTubers and psychologists say that this will continue if people don't stop watching them. 

  
  The month of April began with several shocking incidents of people live-streaming their suicide bids. The disturbing trend, psychologists say, is also triggered with the fact that live-streaming a video gives them a larger audience to show their 'stunt'
 
 
  
 
 While the trend of live-streaming a suicide or murder is new, YouTubers tell us that there is no dearth of pre-recorded videos which are put up by others online to get likes and shares. Amit*, a YouTuber, says, "There is no dearth of murder or   online. Some are fake, while some are shot discreetly and posted. If you search on  , you will notice that most of these videos have a huge number of likes. If people stop watching them, these videos will not be created. Suicide videos are popular and those who feel suicidal tend to watch them, too. However, live-streaming of videos by the person involved is new. It is also because earlier this option was not available. With options like Facebook Live and   Live, this is going to be horrible."
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 Another YouTuber, Ankit* says, "I know people who create fake suicide videos. And even though they mention it in the description, the views are quite high. The 'how to commit suicide' videos also have a viewership. The more realistic is the video, the higher will be the number of likes. But live-streaming of videos is like a performance. What they are doing is suicide, but in their mind, it's being brave."
 
  
 
 Psychologists say that the number of suicide videos is rising faster than they are being discussed. And with each video, the number of people trying to emulate it will also increase.  , director, Mental Health and Behavioural Science, Fortis Hospital, says, "Suicide and murder videos should not be shared in the first place. If a person with suicidal tendencies comes across such videos and takes his/her own life, who will be responsible? The thing with suicide videos is that when it is explained in detail, like how it was done, there is a rise in 'copied' suicides."
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Seconding the thought, Amit* says, "In the US video, Stephen (the murderer) says, 'She's the reason this is about to happen to you.' Now if jilted lovers who have psychological issues see it and think, 'if it takes a murder to get talked about, then be it', who will stop it?" Parikh adds, "It is important that the discussion should be about the crime and not the video because if we discuss videos, such bids will multiply."
 
  
 
 Mrinmay Kumar Das, MD, psychiatry and senior consultant – behavioural medicine,  , adds, "If any social networking website is able to develop a way to rescue a person before they take their life, it will be great. But as I see it, suicide videos are fast becoming the new suicide note. Usually, people leave a suicide note so that they can tell others what they felt in their last moments and why they don't want to live anymore. But through a suicide video, they are not only able to reach their friends or family, but to thousand other people through live-streaming. This seems attractive to them."
 
  To which, Parikh agrees, "People are posting every aspect of their lives online, which also includes heinous acts, and they even take revenge on their exes on social-networking platforms with such videos. These suicide or murder videos should be seen as an extension to that."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
