I remember very well the first time I met him, four years back. A friend of mine told me that there is a puppy in his neighbourhood and we went to check him out. The first thing I recollect is seeing a ball of fur running between my legs, playing with my shoe laces. It was a long cherished dream for me to have a dog. So despite opposition from family, I brought him home. We called him Tippu.

  Tippu was a real troublemaker, like most puppies. He would chew whatever he found and we ended up with broken shoes, pens, carpets etc. The first few words he learned were “bathing” and “morning walk”. He had an aversion towards bathing and whenever my mom mentioned the word, he would play dead; peeking through one eye! But he liked to swim and before long started to swim with abandon in the canal near our home.
 
  He was full of energy and loved to travel. The only reason he liked visiting the veterinary hospital was that he could enjoy the ride. Whenever I took him out in the car, he would put his head out of the window and watch the scene outside. There were several occasions when he woke me up early in the morning, waiting eagerly to be taken for a walk. If I made him wait for long, he would lose patience and start pulling at the bed. The best part of taking a dog for a morning walk is socialising your dog and yourself. I have to admit that I have befriended a lot of people during these walks. People would come close and cuddle him. Even my friends at office used to ask me “How is Tippu doing?”
 
  Four years later today, he has become part of the family. He has added a sense of happiness in all our lives. We scold him for the trouble he creates, but we enjoy his antics secretly. We feel like parents and a sense of responsibility has come over all of us. My mom who always had an aversion towards animals has become Tippu’s best friend and caregiver. Having a dog at home means that whenever you come back home in the evening, there is a welcoming wagging tail waiting for you.
 
  But it is not that easy to keep one. You need to ensure the dog is happy and physically fit. I never leave him outside during summers when it is scorching hot or when it rains. Dogs are also afraid of loud noises. And when you get a dog, be ready for accidental bites occasionally. I know someone who choked their puppy to death when it bit one of their kids. It is such a pity that most people in India buy dogs without an inkling of ‘dogology’. Some consider them security machines but why buy a dog when there are security devices available? It’s a common myth that dogs must be isolated from people to make them bite and bark at strangers.
 
 I feel bad when I see dogs locked in small cages their whole lives. It’s the worst thing you can do to an animal. If you don’t have at least half an hour a day to spare for your dog, never get one. Dogs need to be socialised and all dogs crave for human companionship. I have never put my dog in a cage because I don’t want him to lose his energy. Also, people believe it is quite normal for the dogs to keep barking all day, tied up. They are actually asking for something when they bark. People often ask me, “Why is your dog so silent?’ I tell them, “He is properly taken care of. When he barks, he is attended to.” He barks only when he sees an unfamiliar face or an animal.
  I wish we had rules to regulate pet ownership and ensure a licensing system which enforces people to learn how dogs should be treated, just like you learn driving to get a driving license. Buying or adopting a dog is a 14-year-long commitment, a promise that he/she will be a part of the family and be taken care until the day he dies.
 
 
