AGRA: A family of 10 comprising women, children, elderly and a teenager with disability was assaulted and abused on board the   passenger train near Mainpuri late 
  evening. 

 Recuperating at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia government hospital in Farrukhabad, the victims, who belong to a particular community, said they were targeted because they "appeared different". 
 
 In an FIR lodged with police, one of the victims, Mohammad Shakir (50), said, "Around 
  our family boarded the train from Bhongaon. The train had covered a distance of only 4km when a youth from a group of five men snatched the mobile phone of my son Faizan, who is handicapped. When we protested, the men assaulted our family members, including women and Faizan." 
 
 Of the 10, four have suffered fractures, and as many got head injuries. Almost all of them suffered internal stomach injuries.
 
 Shakir added, "Later when the train was about to reach Nibkarori station, the youths stopped the train by pulling its chain and called up some of their friends, who arrived on motorbikes. Then, some more men, who were armed with iron rods and sticks, attacked us." 
 
 The victims had locked the train compartment's door from inside when they got to know that the attackers were calling up more men. But somehow about 20-30 men managed to barge in near Nibkakori station and continued the assault until some of the passengers fainted. 
 
 A video of the incident obtained by TOI shows a group of men, brandishing iron rods and sticks, banging on the train compartment's door and pelting stones at people inside the train. They finally get inside the train after breaking the glass panel of the emergency window. 
 
 A police officer involved in the investigation told TOI that the women appeared to have been molested as their clothes were torn. "Right now they are in no condition to spell out in detail what happened, but prima facie, it appears that some of the women were molested." 
 
 OP Singh,SP, GRP (  division), who has charge of Agra division, too, said, "An FIR has been lodged under IPC section 395 (dacoity), but more sections will be added once the investigation is done." 
