NAGPUR: On Wednesday evening, children and adults alike gathered at CP Club’s Practice Range, Seminary Hills. It was the last day of their 10-day summer golf camp organized by the club, and it concluded with a mini-tournament. The amateur   were awarded for performing in categories such as ‘closest to pin’, ‘longest drive’ and ‘best putting’.

 The club’s golf section had started its bi-yearly golf camp, held every summer and winter, from 2013 onward. That year, there were only about 7 people. This time, there were 35 participants; though its highest strength have been over 50. As part of the camp, the participants were taught how to improvise on the grip, how to hold the posture and the nuances of swinging the golf club by coaches Reena Singh and Subhash Chandra.
 
 “The idea was to pep them up and encourage them to pursue the sport even after this, so that dropouts from the game are less. This sport is catching up in the city. It is a myth that it is a sport of the rich. Nagpur has no professional golfer as the ecosystem does not support professional golfing. However, things are improving. Nagpur is the cheapest place to learn golf as the club provides with equipment and coaching,” said Sanjay Singh, a golfer associated with the camp.
 
 Currently, golf tournaments in the city are held at   ground by the army, and at Amaravati road, run by the air force.
 
 Prashant Agnihotri, executive secretary of   says that the association was defunct for about 10 to 12 years after its formation and was revived about three years back. “The state of golf in the city was in complete disarray as people had dispersed. We were 4 to 5 of us who began searching for others like us who were interested in the sport. Now we have a small community of about 85 people who regularly meet.”
 
 “Ever since golf was introduced in the Olympics last year, there is growing awareness about this sport. Earlier kids would think that it was a game for old people, but now they are becoming more interested, and they are realizing that the game is not as easy as it looks,” said coach Reena Singh.
 
 Pooja Agrawal, a homemaker, who enrolled his son for the camp said, “Most people choose cricket but golf helps increase one’s concentration.” 
 
 Suneet Singh, a homemaker, said, “My entire family is well-versed with the sport. So I joined the camp too. It’s an enjoyable sport which requires focus and agility.”
 
 “My daughter inspired me to start playing the sport,” said homemaker Kavita Prasad, who enrolled for the camp along with her daughter Gauri.
 
 “I was planning to join since a decade. This is a game of skill, and coaching made a huge difference,” says Ankur Agrawal, owner of Suraburdi meadows.
 
