 The   in Bihar was teetering on the brink of collapse amid growing indication that its disintegration may gather pace after presidential elections on Monday.
 
  The stand-off between   and his partner   worsened on Saturday when the chief minister’s camp made it clear that he would not resile from his demand that   boss’s son and putative successor, Dy CM   Yadav, furnish response to each of the specific charges levelled against him by the CBI about discreet acquisition of assets in different parts.
  
  The RJD boss had said on Friday that he had replied on the corruption charges many times and he would do so before the CBI and Enforcement Directorate when the agencies ask him to.
  
  Amid their growing rift, Tejashwi skipped an official World Youth Skills Day function of the government chaired by Nitish on Saturday. Tejashwi’s name plaque was initially beside the CM’s, but was removed before Nitish reached the venue.
  
  Tejashwi was listed as a “distinguished guest” for the event and his name was also mentioned on the invitation cards. The Bihar CM refused to speak to reporters after the event.
  
  This was the first public event where Nitish and Tejashwi had to share the dais since the CBI raids on Lalu family on July 7 in connection with a land-for-railways hotels case. However, RJD spokesman Manoj Jha said Tejashwi could not attend the function as he was unwell.
  
  The JD(U) also attacked Lalu on Saturday with party general secretary Shyam Rajak saying the RJD supremo has grown old and should not be evasive about giving explanation on corruption charges levelled against him and his family members.
  
  “Lalu is an aged politician. Only he knows the context in which he made such a statement. But, those in public life should show utmost transparency. Else, people who bring them to power can also throw them out. If allegations of corruption have been made against Lalu’s family members, they must reply to the charges properly,” Rajak told TOI.
  
  He said Nitish’s stand on corruption is clear and there would be no compromise on that.
  
  JD(U) spokesperson Sanjay Singh advised Lalu to stand with Grand Alliance during the ongoing “crisis”. “Nitish ji has never compromised with his ideology. Hence, Lalu should also follow the coalition dharma and stand with us at the time of such crisis,” Sanjay Singh said.
  
  Manoj Jha defended Lalu and said explanation on corruption charges can only be given to the appropriate authority. “Are we going to convert ourselves into a banana republic? There are authorities concerned to ask such questions and we are bound to reply to them,” Jha told TOI.
  
  “The matter should be seen in its totality. We wanted a message to be conveyed as to why Tejashwi shouldn’t resign. All RJD members also do not want this to happen. People from all communities in Bihar know this is all part of a larger conspiracy hatched by the BJP as they are misusing central agencies like the CBI and Income Tax department to target Lalu and his family because they (BJP) know people in Bihar believe in him,” Jha said.
