Mumbai: Healthcare aid and patient groups have come together in patent courts to fight against “abusive strategies” of Big   to ensure access to affordable treatment in  . 

 The Initiative for  , Access & Knowledge (I-MAK) — together with the Delhi Network of Positive People (DNP+) and international medical humanitarian organisation Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) — on Tuesday filed two patent challenges on daclatasvir, one on velpatasvir and a further challenge on sofosbuvir. 
 
 The patent challenges could remove barriers to production and distribution of affordable generic versions of direct-acting antiviral (DAA) medicines, including Gilead’s sofosbuvir and velpatasvir, and Bristol-Myers Squibb’s daclatasvir. 
 
 Sofosbuvir (brand name Sovaldi) is Gilead’s blockbuster drug for   C, also embroiled in another patent challenge. The Indian Patent Office granted a patent on the drug last year, with the decision challenged by patient groups. 
 
 In the present challenge, the two cases oppose crystalline forms of sofosbuvir and daclatasvir and should be rejected for not being in compliance with Indian law, a statement from MSF said. Indian law recognises that crystalline forms of known medicines are not inventions and should not be awarded patents. 
 
 This was confirmed by Supreme Court on April 1, 2013, which refused a patent on Novartis cancer drug Gleevec by holding that a crystalline form of a known pharmaceutically active compound cannot be regarded as involving an inventive step. 
 
 A critical third opposition shows that the patent on velpatasvir is an obvious structural change to an earlier hepatitis C drug, ledipasvir. 
 
 This is a classic example of Gilead gaming the patent system in order to strengthen its control on the hepatitis C market. The fourth opposition also seeks to open up supply of raw materials from India by challenging the patent on intermediate form of daclatasvir.
 
 “Together with civil society groups, we have filed legal challenges on multiple invalid patents on three different hepatitis C  ,” said Tahir Amin, director (intellectual property), I-MAK. 
 
 “It is time to challenge the unchecked power that   corporations hold through abuse of the patent system.”
 
 Patent challenges, also called patent oppositions, form one strategy to open up access for millions of people left without affordable treatment options after other strategies to directly engage pharmaceutical companies fail.
 
 Though Gilead has licensed sofosbuvir and velpatasvir to nearly a dozen generic manufacturers, the number of countries able to access these versions represents only half the global burden of disease, the statement adds. There are multiple patent barriers that prevent the manufacture or import of low-cost, quality DAA medicines, particularly in high- and middle-income countries. 
 
 Patents on drugs not only prevent affordable generic versions from being produced or imported, but also restrict progressive innovation that could otherwise benefit patients, it says. Over a decade ago, patent barriers were overcome to allow generic competition of antiretroviral (ARV) drugs, used to treat HIV, causing prices to drop by 99% and enabling over 18 million people to access treatment today. The lack of patent barriers also enabled generic pharmaceutical producers to develop improved ARV combination treatments and new formulations to serve unmet patient needs.
 
 
