AMRITSAR: In less than a month since its installation at the India-Pakistan international border at Attari in Amritsar district, the tallest tricolour has been replaced four times. Lack of foresight has forced the   (AIT) to spend lakhs of rupees or be subjected to ridicule from all around.

 It was an ambitious project that saw the huge national flag finally fluttering at the height of more than 350 feet, just 323 metres from the India-Pakistan border at Attari.
 
 The flag was unfurled at a height of 355 feet from the base -which is five feet high. An aviation light stands another 10 feet up, taking the total height of the structure to 365 feet. The flag is said to be visible from Lahore.
 
 The 80x120 feet (nearly 1,100 square feet) flag, weighing 125kg, is made of parachute material. The Flag Code for India, which mandates that the national flag should be made of cotton, does not imply for monumental flags. However, high speed winds and morning dew has forced the AIT to replace the flag, which costs Rs 1.25 lakh every week.
 
 It was a pet project of former local bodies minister and BJP leader Anil Joshi, who had laid the foundation of the tallest national flag in April 2016. He finally inaugurated the flag on March 5 this year with much fanfare.The minister had taken special permission from the   for the event as the model code of conduct was still in place.Within couple of days of its inauguration, strong winds tattered the flag.
 
 Another BJP leader and former chairman of AIT Suresh Mahajan claimed that no technical report was prepared for the maintenance of the flag. AIT comes under the local bodies ministry.
 
 “It is bound to be torn by strong winds, dew and rains. It seems as if the foun dation and the inauguration was done in a hurry and without considering all pos sibilities,“ he said a day after resigning from the AIT top post. He had put in his papers after the   government took charge in the state and new local bod ies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu asked all political appointees to leave.
 
 Responding to Mahajan's charges, AIT superintendent engineer Rajiv Sekhri said the project design was approved by the   (IIT), Mumbai. The flagpole was installed by Bajaj Electricals and the flag was purchased from Flag India, he said. “Do you think we or all these companies would not have done our homework before executing the project?
 This is the first of its kind flag fluttering at such height and any new project will have teething problems,“ he said.
 
 Following repeated instances of tearing of the huge flag, AIT had written to both Flag India and   of India, the agencies that provide the flags, to suggest that the new ones are made of some cloth that could withstand the wind and rain, Sekhri said.
 
