PATNA: Even as the three-year term of most vice-chancellors (VC) and pro-VCs is likely to be over by the end of this month, different universities of the state are unlikely to get new incumbents soon. The VCs and the pro-VCs had been appointed by the chancellor on the recommendation of the search committees in January, 2014.
 
  As things stand now, at least 500 candidates have applied in response to the advertisement issued by the   for the appointment of VCs and pro-VCs in as many as 10 universities. However, the chancellor’s secretariat has not yet announced the constitution of search committees to expedite the appointments. The state government has reportedly sent to the Raj Bhavan a list of its nominees for all the 10 search committees to be constituted by the chancellor.
  
  Even if the search committees are constituted by the chancellor without further delay, it will take at least two to three months for them to complete the process of shortlisting the applicants, calling them for interaction and submitting the panel of three to five names recommended by them. The appointment of VCs of   in Ara and   in Chhapra has not been done till date even as the search committees of the respective universities interacted with the shortlisted candidates and submitted panels of names to the chancellor on November 26 and December 7, 2016 respectively. The posts of VCs in both the universities have been lying vacant for one year following the unceremonious removal of the then VCs on charges of serious irregularities.
  
  Sources said in all probability the senior most professors or deans of the respective universities would be asked to officiate as the VCs after the expiry of the three-year term of the present incumbents and for the period till the appointments of new incumbents by the chancellor in consultation with the chief minister are finalized. The chancellor’s secretariat has reportedly asked the universities to furnish the seniority list of professors.
  
  It may be recalled that while quashing the appointment of VCs made by the then chancellor Devanand Konwar in 2013, the Supreme Court had ordered for appointment of senior most dean as the acting VCs. But sometime later, on the complaint received from some universities regarding row over seniority of deans, the apex court asked the universities to appoint the senior most professor as the acting VC.
  
  The universities which are likely to have active VCs from the next month include Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University, Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University, Lalit Narayan Mithila University, Magadh University, Patna University, Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University, Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University, Nalanda Open University and Maulana Mazharul Haque Arabic and Persian University. Veer Kunwar Singh University and Jai Prakash University are most likely to get new VCs shortly.
  
