PATNA: Now, the district magistrates are no more authorized to clamp down on the internet services even in case of law & order problem or communal tension in their respective areas. The Union ministry of information technology has frames fresh rules and regulations in this regard and communicated to the states. 

 Bihar government also received the new set of rules in the first week of this month and authorized principal secretary (home)   to take the decision to shut down the internet services in any district in case of any law & order problem. 
 
 Till now, the DMs used to order the district level officers of telecommunication firms to shut down mobile internet and broadband services under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).
 
 State home department sources said a three-member committee has also been formed on the basis of the new rules. After his order to shut down internet facility in any area, the principal secretary (home) has to justify his decision before the three-member committee and get its approval within five working days.
 
 “Chief secretary, principal secretaries of law department and general administration department are the members of the committee in Bihar,” said a senior home department official.
 
 The officer said the committee was formed on an urgent basis after receiving the new set of rules from Delhi as communal tension broke out in flood-hit Purnia, Kishanganj, Katihar, Araria, Supaul, Saharsa and   districts. It was for the first time following new rules that the internet facilities in all these seven districts were stopped on September 4.
 
 “The home secretary can empower any other officer in the state not below the rank of joint secretary in the central government for taking the decision to shut down the internet services,” sources said, adding that a suitable officer would be authorized before the Durga Puja as it might be required to exercise the new rules during Dussehra.
 
 Sources also said the Union ministry has also ordered the telecommunication firms to have a state-level nodal officer to communicate with the state government. “In the present era, police on several occasions observe that it takes just a few minutes to spread any rumour or mobilize crowd for violence through social media while earlier it took at least two days or more to spread rumours from one part of the district to another,” sources said, adding that the internet shutdown is just like curfew in modern days.
 
 
