LUCKNOW: Back to the Lok Sabha constituency from where she contested and failed to win Lok Sabha election in 2014 and now looking to nurture it for 2019 polls, Union textile minister Smriti Irani on the last day of her two-day visit lambasted Congress vice-president   for giving no time to his constituency. 

 Rahul defeated Smriti in Lok Sabha election 2014 by over 1 lakh votes, a margin that came down from around 3 lakh in 2009 election, primarily because of stiff challenge she offered. 
 
 Addressing a gathering at a programme at ITI Teekarmaafi in  , Irani, who was accompanied by minister of state in UP government, Suresh Pasi, said that the latter came from a poor family and went on to become an MLA and now a minister in the   cabinet. “Addressing the Congress vice-president as ‘Yuvraj’ (prince) is an insult to democracy,” said the  .
 
 She continued to attack the Congress vice-president, saying: “When I came here in 2014, I found Amethi in the grip of a political family which has never thought about the development of the constituency and its people. Another point of concern is that a Member of Parliament does not have any time for his constituency and people.” 
 
 Referring to Pasi, Irani later tweeted, “A moment of pride for me to witness a samanya karyakarta of Amethi Suresh Pasi giving his first public address as minister of state, GoUP.”
 
 On Saturday, Irani said in one of her tweets, “Day ends on a celebratory note, as I met birthday boy Harshit – a karyakarta’s son who turned 8 today.” The 41-year-old Union minister also held a community meal for party workers. “Adding special touch to the evening was Banwari ji’s famous meetha pan,” Irani said in her tweet.
 
 Earlier, addressing the gathering, state minister for vocational education and skill development Suresh Pasi said very soon four Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) would come up in Amethi, as they have been approved by the government. “The buildings of the ITIs will be ready by June this year,” he added. From Amethi, Irani reached Lucknow and met state health minister Siddharth Nath Singh.
 
