AHMEDABAD: Seven team of the animal husbandry department culled over 1,650 birds till Wednesday night, even as the culling of domesticated birds was still under way. Meanwhile, 22 staffers of   have been quarantined.

  The health and the animal husbandry departments issued an alert for 36 villages situated around Hathijan and are surveying the area to zero in on any suspicious deaths. Animal husbandry officials said their initial survey revealed that there were five backyard poultry operations in the area, but it was later revealed that there were more than 35 backyard poultry operations, and the department was culling birds at these poultry farms too.
 
 The dreaded avian flu or bird flu has reared its head in Ahmedabad city. This is the second coming of the H5N1 virus in Gujarat, while the first was reported in 2006. The state animal husbandry department on Tuesday confirmed that seven samples from bird carcasses and three blood serum samples from live birds, retrieved from birds at the facility of the   at Hathijan, tested positive for bird flu. The samples were sent to   (NIHSAD) in Bhopal.
 
 Officials said that the animal husbandry has also asked the residents of the area not to venture near the Asha Foundation premises or nearby. The officials said a total of 86,000 people have been checked by various teams and no suspected case in humans was found. However, 22 employees of Asha Foundation have been kept in isolation, while another 20 are under observation.
 
 Apart from the health teams, there were seven teams of the animal husbandry department in the Hathijan area culling birds other than those at the Asha Foundation premises.
 
  said that after culling the turkeys and guineafowl at the NGO, the department has issued orders to cull the 25 emus and several hundreds of pigeon that were rescued for treatment during the Uttarayan festival. He said that the department was even disposing of the culled birds within the premises. He said that some birds were buried.
 
