KOLKATA: Apollo   has been charged with medical negligence, tampering of documents and delay in release of the patient by the six-member health department enquiry committee constituted to probe the death of Sanjay Roy.

 The committee, headed by medicine expert Partha Pratim Mukherjee, submitted its report on Monday, but refrained from naming individuals responsible for the lapses. This led the health department to form another three-member panel that will identify and name Apollo doctors and employees responsible in the next 72 hours. It will also decide whether the lapses resulted in Roy’s death.
 
 The release of the report preceded an hour-long meeting between the health secretary, chief secretary and the chief minister at Nabanna. Addressing a press meet at the end of the meeting, health secretary R S Shukla said that it was “important to pin-point” those responsible for the three major lapses of which the   has been found guilty. Director of health services B S Satpathy, G K Dhali and Madhusudan Banerjee will form the new panel. 
 
 Apollo Gleneagles refused to comment on the report. When contacted by TOI, a hospital spokesperson said senior officials were still an-alyzing the report and will issue a statement by Tuesday.
 
 Had the new Clinical Establishment Act been in force, a medical establishment found guilty of the above charges would have faced a steep penalty of Rs 10 lakh for medical negligence and a further fine of Rs 50,000 for delay in releasing the patient.
 
 The health department report was greeted with alarm by private hospitals. “This is terrifying and will make us press the panic button. A report like this sets a bad precedence. It will make hospitals scared and doctors wary of treating patients. One must appreciate that we are private establishments and have the right to recover our costs. We are not charitable institutions and must charge our patients to survive,” said a hospital CEO.
 
 Another hospital official said Apollo was probably paying the price of being the most prominent and expensive establishment in Kolkata. “The idea, it seems, is to teach the rest a lesson by being harsh on Apollo. The way the probe was done and charges are now being fixed, it’s clear this onslaught was pre-planned. This will discourage investment in the health sector in Bengal,” he said.
 
 The family of Sanjay Roy, who died at SSKM soon after being released from Apollo, had alleged negligence and accused the hospital of holding back the patient for non-payment of dues. Roy’s family was asked to submit FD papers pledging the amount they couldn’t pay at the time of release. Later, the hospital had offered to refund the amount but Roy’s wife refused. Instead, she filed an FIR at the Phoolbagan police station and named doctor under whom Roy was admitted. Apollo president Rupali Basu, who was abroad during the incident, resigned on March 2.
 
 As many as 11 Apollo doctors and staffers have been questioned since last week. At least five more could be called for recording their statements.
 
 
