PUNE: For the first time, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad will have mayors from the BJP. In a giantslaying feat, the party unseated the NCP in the municipal corporations of both cities, bagging 98 seats in Pune and 78 in Pimpri Chinchwad. The BJP’s political engineering experiment to expand its reach, introduction of the multi-member ward system, CM Devendra Fadnavis’s fierce campaign and the Modi effect still prevailing in urban areas helped the BJP register an unprecedented victory.

 The party had managed to win a mere 26 seats in Pune and only 3 in Pimpri Chinchwad in the 2012 civic polls. But in the 2014 assembly elections, the BJP got its MLAs elected in all eight seats in Pune city. Its candidate, Anil Shirole, won the   seat with a record margin. This wave seems to have continued in the civic elections and BJP candidates, including many who had migrated from other parties, trounced their nearest rivals.
 
 For the NCP, its big loss was in Pimpri Chinchwad where it was once considered nearly invincible. The party had grabbed 83 of the 128 seats at stake in the 2012 civic elections but managed to get only 35 seats this time. Its tally dwindled in Pune too, though not as drastically. From 42 seats in 2007 to 51 in 2012, the number fell to 38 in this elections.
 
 While retaining its mid-city vote bank, the BJP has now established its presence in all assembly segments in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad and has won seats even in the fringe areas. 
 
 BJP leaders attributed its astounding victory to Fadnavis and the development agenda of PM Narendra Modi. Pune guardian minister Girish Bapat said, “We have had MLAs and MPs elected from here, but never got a chance to govern the civic body. People have voted for our development agenda,” he said.
 
 Fadnavis was the party’s face in the election campaign for both cities. He successfully managed to unite warring leaders and also reached out to citizens to vote for the party. Bhosari MLA Mahesh Landge, who joined the BJP ahead of the polls, said, “People expressed their confidence in the development works done by Fadnavis. And they expressed their anger against the NCP.”
 
 However, political observers and analysts attributed the BJP’s victory to more than a few factors. They said that the party, whose presence was earlier restricted to the mid-city areas of Pune, went into an expansion mode by opening its doors to leaders and workers from other parties. They pointed out that this move even led to criminal elements making their way into the party just ahead of the polls.
 
 In Pimpri Chinchwad, the BJP is packed with NCP leaders and former Ajit Pawar aides, who were the ones that secured victory for the BJP. In Pune, the party managed to penetrate localities it had never won before, thanks primarily to leaders and workers inducted from other parties. A BJP insider admitted that among its candidates elected in Pune, about 60 were “original” BJP workers while as many as 38 were “outsiders”. 
 
 However, state BJP chief Raosaheb Danve defended the party on this issue, saying that “elective merit” alone matters in electoral politics. 
 
 Analysts said the four-member panel system also helped the BJP ride to power. Manasi Phadke from the Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics said the system helps bigger parties. City BJP leaders were keen on the panel system because they felt people would vote more for the party than for individual candidates. This was reflected in the BJP’s winners’ list as relatively unknown candidates and even novices managed to defeat NCP and Congress veterans.
 
 The election results comes as major setback for NCP president  , who campaigned in both cities to help his party retain power. Ajit Pawar, who virtually ruled over the municipal corporations in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, has now been reduced to being the leader of his assembly constituency in Baramati. 
 
 Accepting responsibility for the defeat, Pune’s NCP president Vandana Chavan resigned from her post. She said the party retained its numbers, but failed to increase its base. NCP leaders said the anti-incumbency factor also played a role in the party’s defeat.
 
 
