State education minister   may have thought that he is killing two birds with one stone when he proposed that students using CNG-fuelled bikes may get additional marks. But students, their parents and college authorities have reacted strongly to this and dubbed his proposal of clean energy credits scheme, a pipe dream. Here’s what a cross-section of people in the city had to say to us about roping in students as agents of change in reducing carbon emission and cost...

 Parents fear that the scheme would result in reverse pressure on them to fulfil their kids’ demands for a vehicle. Says Preeti Tailor, mother of an 18-year-old, “It is also an unfair way to examine them. It may result in some bright but economically backward students being denied extra marks because they could not afford a vehicle.”
 
 However, some like Amruta Desai, mother of a 17-year-old, are all for it. She says, “This will not only cut down pollution tremendously, but will also invoke a sense of responsibility for nature conservation amongst the youth. The young generation is known to replicate most habits of their peer group, so this is bound to promote the cause indirectly.”
 
 
 Most professors are up for practical implications of policies, but they want it to be compensated with other benefits. Dr Rajpal Hande, Principal, Mithibai College, says, “It is high time we inculcate environmental awareness and adopt carbon credit means among youngsters. The move is commendable and needs to be introduced in all walks of life. However, these credits should not be compensating curriculum. In credit system, there is a provision of earning extra credits apart from their academic course credits. These extra credits may be shown in their marksheets as carbon credit earned, which will be beneficial in their career as environment conservationist. This I feel will create carbon credit movement in true sense. The move only needs to be systematised.”
 
 
 
 Most students feel that while it sounds like a great move, it may not reap the benefits it should. Says Karan Trichal, a second year engineering student, “The initiative behind the idea is cool, however, the incentive is not. While this can reduce the pollution level to some extent, incentives needs to be better than just offering extra marks to students. It just seems like an easy way out and addresses only a part of the problem.”
 
 
 With the number of road accidents increasing each year, this may add up to the woes. Third year mass media student  , says, “My main concern with this idea is about safety.   may blow up when an accident occurs. Traffic may also intensify with the number of vehicles going up. Besides, do we have enough parking lots and additional space for all this in the city?”
 
 
 The plan that works towards achieving a cleaner and greener environment is laudable, but coupling marks with carbon credit seems unfair. Oswin D’Souza, a second year science student from SIES Sion, says, “Not many students will be able to afford a scooter. Other than that, youngsters are aware of CNG’s pros and if it is implemented, they will surely opt for it.”
 
 
 Pooja Gavande, a final year BA student at DG   College, feels it will deepen the divide between the rich and the poor. “It sounds like a cool way to boost our marks. But in a way, it will end up creating a hierarchy and a class-based society.”
 
 
 The initiative seems to leave out those who don’t drive. Jaina Gangar, a first year mass media student at UPG College asks, “What about those who don’t drive and can’t avail of the facility? Does it count if I am in the passenger seat? It is a great idea, but not justified. Instead of marks, certificates would work better, according to me.”
 
 
 For years, public transport has been the preferred mode of commute for students. And with many city colleges being close to the railway stations (case in point being KC, HR, Jai Hind, St Xavier’s, Mithibai, Wilson and Ruparel among others), walking or taking buses have been the preferred modes. Mallika Kelkar, a third year student of   says, “They are promoting personal transport, while public transport is the best option. Shouldn’t the government consider students who opt for public transport over private?”
 
 
 Many students feel that the move is a way of bribing students by means of extra credits and will ruin the ethos of education. And if they are to do it, why not offer something more worthwhile? First year mass media student Jainam Shah, says, “Most of us are aware of CNG benefits. However, if they do want more students to use scooties, they need to offer students’ discounts and some rebate on CNG itself, instead of luring them with better marks.”
 
 
 Vinod Tawde, state education minister, says, “This is only a proposal and primary plan, given that many students use two-wheelers. Adequate security measures and provisions for those taking public transport will also be thought about. Even if they don’t own a vehicle and someone from the family does, steps will be taken to give them some sort of concession. It still needs to be thought through.”
 
 
