MUMBAI: If you’ve visited   over the past five days, you would have noticed that all the stalls that line the prime shopping stretch have put up their shutters. In an extended standoff with the  , stall owners have pasted banners on shutters condemning the civic body for demolishing unlicensed portions of their structures. They are also against the proposal to realign the location of their stalls to decongest Linking Road. 

 When TOI visited the stretch on Friday afternoon, not a single stall was open. Members of the   Stall Owners’ Association said they are upset with the BMC over its “continuous and brazen” demolition action over the past few months. Faisal Qureshi, president of the association, said, “They came up with a proposal to realign stalls and place us before the traffic island on the opposite site of the road. The civic body took the decision without receiving any clearances from the fire brigade or traffic police. If tomorrow these authorities take an objection to the move, where will we go?” 
 
 Sohaib Khan, another stall owner, said hundreds of shoppers have been returning disappointed. “This is a well-known street shopping arcade, which has been around for several decades. However, we have faced a series of demolitions over the past few months and our goods have been confiscated on a large scale.” Khan added that a female stall owner died of heart attack on being served with a BMC notice.
 
 Sharad Ughade, assistant municipal commissioner, H-West Ward, refuted all the allegations and said, “This is not a sudden action. We have been receiving repeated complaints from citizens claiming that they have not been able to walk on the footpath as the stalls have taken over more than the area provided to them.” He added that the BMC had conducted a survey of the stalls. “Some of the pitch licences were only for a one metre by one metre stretch but many were functioning in a space much beyond that. We also found that most stalls owners were not present themselves but had rented out the space to others or were selling commodities other than those permitted by their licence,” said Ughade. 
 
 
