In today’s world, life has become very competitive and people are working as hard as possible. Nowadays, rotational night shift work is common and it’s growing gradually. In past, various studies have been conducted and suggested a connection between rotating night shift work and risk of obesity and  , conditions closely related to  .

 In today's fast paced world, we should know that achieving anything at the cost of our health proves expensive in the long run. I remember the Old saying- Early to bed and early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise. This is a classic article reiterating this Golden truth.
 
 A recent US study examined the link between periodic night shifts and incidence of type 2 diabetes diagnosis. The study was focused on women nurses who work swapping between day and night shifts. Results showed that these women were at an increased risk of developing type 2  . The research included 178,000 women of age between 42 and 67.Those who worked at least three nights a month, as well as day shifts, were considered to be a night worker. They were studied for two decades as part of the long-running Nurse's Health Study.
 
 For the nurses who had worked night shift for 20 years, the risk of developing type 2 diabetes was 58 per cent compared to those who only worked in the day. While for the nurses who had worked night shift for just 3 years, the risk was increased by 20 per cent. However, when participants' BMI was taken into account, the risk was dropped to three per cent and 24 per cent, respectively, in these two groups. According to Frank Hu, the lead author of the study, this increased risk is very large and can have severe health consequences.
 
 According to research team, during night shifts the sleeping and eating patterns gets disturbed that can lead to weight gain and thus increasing the risk of type 2 diabetes. Swapping between day and night shifts can change the body's natural body clock, which in turn responsible for disturbance in healthy blood sugar levels and energy balance. Earlier studies have already shown that lack of sleep or disrupted cycles of sleep can lead to insulin resistance and higher blood sugar, both the indicators of diabetes.
 
  Although, rotating shift work is a risk factor of diabetes may be due to biological factors resulting from disruption of circadian rhythms, but eating habits and BMI also play a key role. Try to indulge in healthy lifestyle and work shift that do not disturb your body’s natural clock. 
 
 
 
 
 
