MUMBAI: The   by a student at   has put the spotlight on bullying in schools. While schools in the city haven’t seen a major instance of bullying in a while now, principals say they are on constant alert to ensure no complaints go unheard and there is help available.

 An orientation at the beginning of the year to sensitise students about bullying is a norm at most schools. “This orientation helps students connect with the  . It is important that students establish a rapport with the counsellors and feel confident about filing a complaint. We also have a suggestion box on all floors for those who would want to make an anonymous complaint,” said Francis Swamy, principal, St Mary’s High School (ICSE), Mazgaon. “We also ensure our doors are open for students to walk in and talk anytime,” he added.
 
 Principals said lessons about bullying are driven home through friendly talks instead of workshops. “Counsellors keep speaking to students on a regular basis and some students are assigned the duty of reporting instances of bullying. Our counsellors start as early as kindergarten. In case of a complaint, students are periodically monitored even if the problem is resolved because there is usually an underlying cause to the behaviour,” said Chandrakanta Pathak, principal, HVB Global Academy, Marine Drive.
 
 This underlying cause, mental health   feel, must be addressed to restrict students from turning bullies. “Children turn into bullies depending on how they are treated in the family. Teachers must be proactive and watch out for the slightest signs of disturbance in a child. Schools must speak to parents and seek help from experts. There is a need for teachers and parents to spend more time with children so no signs are missed,” said clinical psychologist, Seema Hingorrany.
 
 However, government-aided schools said hiring counsellors is the need of the hour, but resources are sparse. “Various government agencies have instructed schools to have full-time counsellors but we don’t get non-salary grants and are not allowed to hire our own staff. So, we are constantly on the lookout for those willing to help pro bono,” said Prashant Redij, member of the Mumbai Principals’ Association.
 
