AHMEDABAD: Gujarat’s four major   that are aiming big to be smart cities are fighting shy of an uneasy and dismal truth — high anaemic population numbers which is higher than the national average, undernourishment and low child sex ratio. While cores of taxpayers money are being sought from central government for housing, roads, hi-tech civic infrastructure, but deep in its core our cities are unhealthy!

 In cities like Ahmedabad nearly 74 % of children under five years of age were found to be anaemic, the national average stands at 58%. In   Vadodara 55.6 % children and 52.5% in Rajkot are anaemic. Which means they suffer from low quantity of haemoglobin caused by nutritional deficiency making them vulnerable to diseases and poor brain development. 
 
 Quite understandibly, the four cities have avoided providing figures for nutrition of under-five kids for the National family Health Survey 2015-16. Similar is the case with anemia in women and pregnant women. Naerly 61% of women in 15 to 49 years age group in Ahmedabad are anemic, 56% in Rajkot while their men counterparts are just 22 % and 17 % in Ahmedabad and Rajkot respectively.
 
 When it comes to stunted chidren Vadodara city has 38.5% children   are stunted, followed by Surat with 28.7 % children and Ahmedabad with 26.2% children. Another disturbing fact is that 26.8% children under five years of age in Ahmedabad are wasted, followed by 25% in Surat and 23.45% children in Rajkot.
 
 Wasting or thinness, according to WHO indicates a severe process of weight loss associated with  , a severe disease, or malnourishment. In over a decade, since 2006, and after crores were poured into the health sector, Gujarat recorded an 8 % rise in the number of wasted and 4% rise in severely-wasted children below 5 years. “Better nutrition and increased budget for innovative social welfare programs in health and women and child development are a must in cities where socio-economic indicators are a huge gap,” said a senior state health official. 
 
 
