Be it a beach holiday or a daily swimming sesh, keep your floating fashion high. Here’s a style and buying guide to help you handle this swimmingly

 Summer runs into heat. Heat runs into thoughts of staying cool. And when we say ‘cool’, the thought of swimming runs in your mind. But a pool visit is not just about staying cool, it’s also about looking it. 
 
 
 
 Before making a   purchase, be sure of the purpose behind buying it. Is it for hardcore sport, daily swimming, or for a relaxing beach vacay? Your choice of swimwear largely depends on what you’re using it for. Hot tip: Stick to basic sportswear brands, and not flashy fashion swimsuits, when buying for your fitness routine. If you are shopping for a holiday, pick bikini tops which can be paired with shorts. 
 
 
 
 On a beach holiday, use your swimwear as day wear. “Pair a tankini with hot shorts and throw on a sheer overall or tasselled shrug. Bikinis can be worn beneath bright-coloured kaftans,” says designer Pria Kataaria Puri. Designer Aashima Behl suggests wearing a flowy maxi dress over the swimsuit and completing the look with a scarf around the neck or as headband. “Pick body chains and gold cuffs to style the swimsuit,” says Behl.
 
 
 
 5 must-have accessories
 1. A perfect pair of reflectors or oversized shades
 2. A hat matching the swimsuit – floral or nude or in blush pink
 3. A cotton canvas or straw beach tote 
 4. Sheer beach cover up or a sarong
 5. A pair of coloured, printed flip flops or metallic sliders 
 — Aashima Behl, designer
 
 
 
 
 Wear swimsuits with padding or boning. Embrace tiny scoop tops or bandeaus or bikinis. 
 
  Go for a top with underwire and side boning. Avoid wearing ruffles or frills. Go for side cuts. 
 
  Swimsuits with strategically-placed cut outs, monokinis, and plunging necklines create the impression of curves. High-waisted bottoms work well too. 
 
 High-waisted bottoms and tops with a thick band under the bust flattens the stomach. 
 
 Look for a skirted bottom that falls just below the largest part of the upper leg. Avoid boyshorts. 
 — Nidhi Munim, designer
 
  
  
  
 
 Trend talk #1 (left)
 CUT IT OUT 
 ‘Interesting’ cut-out details are in – on the side or up front
 
 Trend talk #2 (right)
 TASSLE TALES
 Big or small, flirty tassles work well for a beach holiday
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Trend talk #3 (left)
 ONE-PIECE WONDER 
 A glam one-piece suit is always with it. Pick one in a retro style – polka dots, stripes, florals
 
 Trend talk #4 (centre) 
 ZIP IT UP 
 Master the sports luxe look. Pick swimwear with a front zip fastening. Stay away from complicated details. Go for simple neoprene swimsuits
 
 Trend talk #5 (right) 
 SHOW OFF
 Take the two biggest trends — off-shoulder and cold-shoulder — to the beach with you
 
 
 
