Despite being the strongest organ in the human body, heart is also the most vulnerable. And this is the reason why millions of people die every year of  , especially  . Every 33 seconds, a person dies in India of a heart attack. Dr K M Cherian, Chairman and CEO of Frontier Lifeline Hospital who has been the Honorary Surgeon to the President of India from 1990 to 1993 and has performed more than 38,000 operations says, “Indians are falling prey to heart attack 10 years ahead of people in the West. Desperate measures are needed to control the outcome.”
 
 Dr Ajeet Arul Kumar,   (Adult) at Frontier Lifeline Hospital shares, “In 2016, almost 2117 patients came to our hospital reporting of heart trouble, out of which 5 per cent were less than 30 years of age and almost 22 per cent were less than 40 years.”
  
 Not many are aware that coronary heart disease starts during teen years. That’s when the foundation is set. “Just like an avalanche, it takes many years until one day it finally occurs,” adds Dr Ajeet.
  
 
 
  
 There are both non-modifiable and modifiable risk factors of coronary heart disease. The former cannot be avoided but the latter can be fixed to minimise its onset.
  
 
 
 Family history
 Diabetes
  
 
 
 Smoking
 Stress
 Processed food diet
 Inactive lifestyle
  
 
 
 We all know having an active lifestyle and   is important but how many of us actually follow it? In the rush of everyday life, we often undermine the very things that keep us going. Worse, we fall into the trap of job strain. “Today’s generation is different. They are competitive because of which they end up neglecting their family, work overtime and ignore their health,” says Dr Cherian.
  
 Ambitious and career-oriented people risk developing heart disease if they don't learn about ways to cope with their work stress. Long working hours, work anxiety, deadline pressure, combined with the sedentary lifestyle all makes their heart vulnerable. And then to compensate their stressful lives, they indulge in sugary comfort foods and alcohol.
  
 According to a study published in the Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health, when women are under pressure, they lose estrogen, which is the hormone that helps them combat hardened arteries that can lead to heart attack.
  
 
 
  
 Dr Kumar urges people to not treat any discomfort between their throat and stomach including the shoulders lightly. “Try exerting yourself to check if it is a cardiac issue. If there is consistent discomfort, consult a doctor.” He adds, “Most young people pass off any discomfort in the chest area as a gastric issue and try treating it with Gelusil or Eno. And by the time this person comes to us, he has tried various stages of self or chemist prescribed relief techniques. Little do they realise that ECG is a must. While 9 out of 10 cases could actually be gastric issues but that one time can make all the difference.”
  
 Dr Cherian recommends a healthy lifestyle. “It is extremely important to eliminate junk and processed foods from your diet along with finding excuses to walk. Last but not the least, minimise stress. Stress leads to a host of health issues.” Indulge in activities you like. Read, follow a hobby, volunteer, do whatever makes you happy and keep your heart strong!
 
 
