HYDERABAD: It might be good news for the state police force, but the rush for constable posts is also a sign of the rising desperation among the lakhs of unemployed youths in the state.

 Experts say that it’s the lack of opportunities and job security that is forcing graduates, especially engineers and post graduates, to apply for police constable jobs that only need class 10 as qualification. While the number of engineers is three times more than the jobs available, at least 60% of B Tech graduates do not possess the skill set to be engineers.
 
 Umamaheshwar Rao, placement officer at Osmania University College of Engineering, said, “It’s a sad situation, but students have no other option. To change the situation, a survey needs to be conducted to find out how many engineering, MBA or MCA jobs are available. Only based on that should AICTE give permission to colleges.”
 
 The difference in the number of students passing out of each field and the number of jobs available is drastic. Each year, 1.75 lakh students pass out from engineering colleges. But only 50,000 jobs are available for them each year. Similarly, about 53,000 earn polytechnic degrees, 80,000 MBA/MCA degrees and 7,200 come out with B Pharma certificates. 
 
 It’s not just a lack of jobs but lack of skillsets too that prevent many students from getting a job in their chosen field of study. “Thanks to government’s reimbursement scheme, every other student is an engineer or aspires to be one. But they hardly have the required skills to take up an engineer’s job, be it software or any other field. The problem is that we are an engineer-obsessed state and students are forced to take up the course even if they are not interested in the subject,” said Ramesh Loganathan, former president of Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA).
 
 In such cases, candidates who scrape through engineering or any other degree with just enough marks have no other option but to accept any job that comes their way.
 
 On the other hand, job security in the government sector is a major attraction. “Students join any government job because of job security. In private jobs, even if they work 24x7, there is no surety that they will get to keep their jobs. But once they join the government, they can relax,” said  , training and placement officer at   Technological University-Hyderabad.
 
