PATNA: With mercury soaring above 30 degrees Celsius, vendors have started setting up their stalls at popular junctions in the city to sell fresh  , shakes and other refreshing beverages. As people are more health conscious nowadays, the demand for fresh juice and shakes has increased manifold. 

 However, doctors advise people to take care of hygiene at and around the juice vendors. “Drinking fresh fruit juice is good for health as contains essential vitamins like Vitamin A and C found in carrot and orange. Fresh juice has antioxidants as well which which are effective in fighting diseases. However, one must ensure the juice is hygienic and obtained from a clean source,” said Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of IMA (Bihar chapter).
 
 “People these days prefer ‘sattu’, ‘bael ka sherbet’, ‘aam panna’, ‘lassi’ and tender coconut water to quench their thirst as these natural drinks not only hydrates the body, but also fill the stomach. This is one reason why people are preferring these over popular cold drinks available in the market,” said  , who works with a trading company.
 
 “I take one glass of juice daily during the afternoon break,” said Kumar while sipping sugar cane juice near Gandhi Maidan.
 
 Traditional ‘sattu’ rules the roost when it comes to sales at the makeshift counters across popular junctions like Gandhi Maidan, income tax roundabout,   and Boring Road where there are large number of student hostels and coaching centres.
 
 “I sell around 300 glasses of ‘sattu’ (around 15kg) every day during summer. I have been in this business for the past 15 years near Gandhi Maidan where it is in great demand throughout the year. The sales pick up in summer season,” said  , who sells a glass of ‘sattu’ for Rs10.
 
 There is also a great demand of sugar cane juice, which comes at Rs5- 10 per glass, depending on the glass size.  , a juice seller near the DM’s residence, said he has been doing brisk business for the past few weeks. “I sell around 100 glasses and the sale will subsequently increase with the mercury soaring,” he said.
 
 The price of tender coconut is between Rs30 and Rs40. “I like the sweet taste of coconut water which is also hygienic,” said Abhishek Kumar, a student preparing for bank recruitment exams. 
 
 ‘Lassi’ is also in high demand on Fraser Road. “Apart from selling milk, I also keep lassi and have been getting good number of customers each day,” said Avinash Kumar.
 
 
