BENGALURU: CM   has turned out to be the new marketing juggernaut in Sandalwood. Movie-makers have begun knocking on his doors with requests to view their movies and to speak a few good words that would produce positive social chatter.

 “Half-a-dozen film personalities have approached the CM seeking his attention in the last one month. They want the CM to watch their movies or listen to their music albums,“ a source in the chief minister's office (CMO) told STOI. Though Siddaramaiah has been turning down the requests stating that he is not a celebrity and that he doesn't have time for movies, requests continue to pour in.
 
 On Wednesday evening, Kannada actor Mithra met Siddaramaiah at   and requested the latter and his cabinet colleagues to watch `Raaga' which hit the screens last week. 'Raaga' is the story of two visually-impai red people with a mes sage to society.
 
 Mithra told the CM that Raaga couldn't withstand the onslaught of '  2' and that it can draw public attention if he and all the ministers view it. It's a good movie and we want the CM to view it and speak about it,“ Mithra had said. Another actor, Venkatram Lakshman alias `Huccha' Venkat too wanted Siddaramaiah to view his latest movie. In a press meet two days ago, Venkat had rued: “The CM is watching Telugu movies, he should watch Kannada movies too.“ The source in the CMO said: “Movie-makers are looking at CM as an influencer. They feel that a single message from the CM about their movie would leverage all their promotional strategies with regard to luring viewers to theatres.“
 
 In fact, Sandalwood's interest in Siddaramaiah intensified after he watched   Rajkumar-starrer Raajakumara at a theatre in Mysuru on April 10, following a hectic campaign schedule during the Nanjangud and Gun dlupet bypolls. The CM praised Puneeth's performance and said it reminded him of late Kannada superstar Rajkumar.
 
 Riding high on the publicity, Puneeth and team followed it up by meeting Siddaramaiah at the latter's residence in Bengaluru. Video footage of the meeting, where Siddaramaiah congratulates Puneeth for the `message-oriented movie', went viral and it got more viewers to the theatres.
 
 In fact, Siddaramaiah's decision to watch Baahubali 2 along with his grandson also generated additional publicity and goodwill for the Telugu movie.The movie, which had been opposed by some Kannada activists earlier, got another round of free publicity after the CM watched it.Another Kannada movie that the CM watched last week is Niruttara, produced by actress Bhavana.
 
 “We have more personalities from the movie industry visiting the CM with bouquets these days,“ the source in CMO added.
 
