AURANGABAD: The civic body is expecting a fund of Rs 90 crore within a week from the state government to develop state-of-the-art civic amenities here under the   project. The municipal authorities on Thursday told TOI that the central government has already allotted the fund to the state government which will be soon diverted towards the   (AMC). 

 Om  , municipal commissioner said that the civic body would get funds for initiating various projects planned under the project. 
 
 Elaborating, Sikander Ali, executive engineer in the civic body and in-charge of the project said that the AMC would receive the funds within three to four days. “The funding will be disbursed in five phases. Every year the civic body will get the funds and right now we believe the funds for the first phase will be released very soon,” he said. 
 
 The AMC will soon appoint a project management consultancy firm to prepare detailed reports for  , green field development and improvement of solid waste management system among other schemes. “Responding to the bid calls of the civic body, three reputed firms have applied for the consultancy management job. We will open the bids on Friday and hope to appoint a company, which will immediately start preparing detailed project reports for various schemes,” Ali said. 
 
 Under the pan city category of the smart city scheme, the civic body has planned  . It is looking forward to developing about 100 smart bus stands and attract participation of private bus operators to run the system. The authorities are also planning to operate a fleet of about 100 buses in the first phase for which the team of experts would explore sources for revenue generation. 
 
 The authorities are working on Rs 278 crore project for introducing a safe and reliable public transport system. It has chalked out a plan to invest Rs 110 crore in public transport system and Rs 168 crore in integrated project to develop smart bus stands, street lights and traffic signal system. 
 
 The authorities will rope-in private bus operators, but plan to control the system by issuing licences on pre-decided routes. The AMC will also control traffic. 
 
 Under the greenfield development category, the municipal corporation has identified about 550 acres of land in Chikhalthana area to develop it using innovative planning with provisions for affordable housing for the poor. The development would be carried out to address housing needs of the city’s increasing population. Apart from this, the civic body has proposed to introduce modern technology to handle the solid waste management system. 
 
