NOIDA: Uttar Pradesh   for   development   visited   on Monday and said his focus would be to revive industrial development in the three areas of Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) and to bring in investment. Besides aiming for holistic development of the three areas, Mahana also promised a transparent working environment and working in the interest of the public. This was his first visit to the city after the BJP formed the government in the state. 

 Mahan met senior officials of the three authorities and the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) to take stock of the ongoing infrastructure projects. Even as he promised to root out corruption, he asked officials to adhere to timelines besides implementing the already initiated citizen charter.
 
 Taking a dig at the former Samajwadi-led government, Mahana said all the earlier chief ministers of ruling parties in the state had kept the industrial development portfolio with themselves. “However, they have always suffered from a superstitious “Noida jinx”, which has kept them away from Noida. They have preferred to govern these areas from Lucknow allowing corrupt officials to take charge,” he said, adding that deteriorating law and order, lack of infrastructure and shortage in power supply only added fuel to fire. “This has led to the downfall of the industrial sectors in G B Nagar, leading to no new industries setting up shop here. But all this is going to change in the next few years,” Mahana promised. “I will not only introduce an investor-friendly industrial policy to motivate industrialists to establish industries, but will strengthen the single window system for doing so. My aim will be to provide entrepreneurs with a conducive environment for setting up industry and for ease of doing business,” he said. 
 
 Mahana took stock of all the infrastructure projects underway in the three industrial authorities and directed officials to expedite them. “I believe all infrastructure development is incidental to industrial development. I will be continuously monitoring all projects. It is not important about who or which party launched the project. They will be completed in the interest of the public. It is not the government’s priority to transfer government officials. The important thing is to get work done,” he said, adding that the public’s problems being faced in the three areas will be addressed. “I have also launched a biometric system at the Noida Authority and directed them to implement the citizen charter in totality,” the minister said.
 
 
