NAGPUR: More than two months after applying for revaluation, third semester students of Master of Arts ( ) heaved a sigh of relief on Monday after they were declared pass in ‘20th Century Amercian Literature’. The   results have once again exposed the tall claims and inefficiencies of Nagpur University led by Vice Chancellor SP Kane, who had promised students to complete the process within two weeks in January. 

 Large numbers of MA (English) students from different city colleges were baffled after they failed in this subject in January. 
 
 In a series of reports on January 21, 22 and 24, TOI had highlighted how students had complained to Vice Chancellor SP Kane about anamolies. While accepting their complaint letter, Kane had advised them to apply for revaluation promising early declaration of results. 
 
 Surprisingly, the students have not merely passed but their   have jumped by as much as 25. 
 
 When asked what action the NU would taken since the revaluation results indicate ‘improper evaluation, Vice Chancellor SP Kane read out a direction. “A change in result is considered only if there is a difference of 4%to 15% marks. In this case, naturally the papers were re-evaluated. If the marks increase by 16% to 25% then another evaluator, R2, is appointed to check the paper. If marks still increases then all the evaluators are called for inquiry by the Disciplinary Action Committee (DAC).” 
 
 After revaluation, many students have got an increase of 20% to 27% approximately. 
 
 Director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation Neeraj Khaty, who had claimed that not many students had failed in this subject citing 23% in MA (English), tried to dodge TOI’s query saying the marks have gone down too. He also didn’t disclose the number of students passing in this subject.
 
 When TOI checked with students, it could find only one student whose marks had indeed gone down but in another subject. 
 
 On the increase in marks, Khaty said, “   evaluation is a subjective matter. There can be two different sets of marks on a same question regarding Wordsworth poem. A evaluator may give 8 marks while another may feel it deserves 12.”
 
 “In some cases, marks have gone down as well. What can we do? Evaluations is a subjective tasks and depends from person to person. So far, digital evaluation is not introduced like MPSC and UPSC exams, hence the complete objective can’t be achieved, “ he added. 
 
 
