RANCHI:   has always been known to speak his mind, but unlike many of his other teammates he never believed in going overboard when it came to manifesting emotions on the pitch. Team India's chief coach made it clear on Tuesday that though his team had moved on from the `Cheatgate' issue, there would be no let-up in aggression from his boys on the field.

 “You don't want to curb players' natural instincts. As long as they go out there and do what is expected of them, there is absolutely no issue with that,“ Kumble said while addressing the media at the JSCA International stadium on Tuesday . “I don't think we need to read too much into that aggression or body language.Every player has his own way of expressing himself and that's what you want.
 
 “The series is 1-1 and I expect both teams to go hard against each other and I am sure cricket will be the winner,“ Kumble opined.
 
 Praising the   and   ( ) for their `mature' stance, Kumble said, “I think it was important to bring the focus back on cricket and I am really glad that the BCCI took a mature call along with Cricket Australia to issue a joint statement that cricket needs to move on, and indeed we have moved on.“
 
 Asked what he had told his players, Kumble said they are mature enough to know what is required of them. “I don't think the players are concerned. Like I said, we have moved on. It's nice that everybody had a short break and is fresh.“
 
 Kumble lauded his boys for staging a fine comeback in Bengaluru. “To make a comeback like that and win a Test match was extremely rewarding. The intensity has always been there. It's not that when we played there was a lack of it. That's where my job comes, to help the players maintain the intensity for 90 overs,“ said Kumble.
 
 Ravichandran Ashwin might have scalped six wickets in the second innings in the Bengaluru to help India clinch the issue, it was the performance of the pacers in the second Test that had Kumble excited. “We saw what Ashwin could do and he won us a Test match again, but it was the fast bowlers who bowled brilliantly. They showed a lot of character and as a coach that's what you want to see“.
 
 Elaborating further, Kumble added, “Umesh (Yadav) is capable of getting a five-wicket haul but these are not the kind of wickets where he would get one. Yet he has provided us with crucial breakthroughs at various points.“
 
 The batsmen, too, received words of motivation. “Since the West Indies tour a lot of m i l e s t o n e s h av e b e e n achieved. We have won all series with (Virat) Kohli getting four double centuries in four Test series. `Ashwin was the fastest to 250 Test wickets.
 
 “In Bengaluru what stood out was Lokesh Rahul's halfcenturies while I feel Pujara and Rahane's partnership was the defining moment,“ Kumble said.
 
 
