KOLKATA: The Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology-Shibpur, has decided to discontinue with the admission to the five-year   — BTech and MTech — programme from the 2017-2018  . It paves the way for the return of four-year BTech programme after a three-year gap. Space crunch on the campus and suggestions from prospective employers prompted the decision.

 From now, students entering the fifth semester (third-year BTech) will have to inform if they want to pursue MTech. However, they have to secure the requisite score to complete MTech in a year as part of the integrated programme. The regular two-year MTech, which admits students based on GATE scores, will also continue. 
 
 Since its inception in 2014, IIEST-Shibpur has admitted 650 students in its five-year integrated dual-degree programmes each year. “The prospective employers felt that it would be difficult to provide appropriate job facilities to so many students graduating from the university with an MTech degree. There is no other institute in the country that churns out such a huge number of engineers every year, not even the IITs,” said a source.
 
 But a handful of students can still pursue their dual-degree dream. At the end of the fourth semester (end of second year), the institute will allow a certain number of candidates with a requisite score to pursue the dual-degree.
 
 This apart,   will offer an exit route to the interested students at the end of the fourth year. “We are conscious that the institute has been formed with an idea to serve the strategic sector of Indian economy. We shall continue to excel in these areas so that appropriate manpower can be generated,” said Ajay Roy, director.
 
 “IIEST has been forced to review its earlier plan to admit only dual-degree students due to paucity of space and infrastructure. If the policies of offering an exit route and putting a pause to the dual-degree programme are initiated from the current academic year, the total number of students passing out in 2019 will come down from 1000 to a manageable level. We are aiming to keep the number of MTech graduates within 750,” a source said.
 
 
