NEW DELHI: Kaikeyi, the stepmother of Lord Ram who is popularly considered to have exiled him to 14 years in the jungles, is forever depicted as a vampish villainess on stage. This year, however, at one of the Ramlilas, she has a chance of redeeming her character. “Taking our cue from Rishi Kadamb’s version of the Ramayana, we are showing Kaikeyi in a more positive and nuanced light,” explained  , chairman of the Nav Sri Dharmik Ramlila Committee. 

 Kaikeyi, therefore, is being shown as being dead against Ram being sent into exile. “She loved him so much that she even told Ram that she would accept any condition he imposed if that would prevent her from being separated from the Pandava scion,” said Agarwal. In the past too, the   had experimented with alternative versions of the Ram legend, basing its performance on the versions of different authors. Elaborating on the changes, Dr Amitosh Sharma of the  , who is directing the performance on behalf of the committee,said, “The rakshas (demons) had wreaked havoc on rishis. 
 
 When the coronation of Ram was about to take place, the gods were worried that the purpose for which Lord Ram had been reincarnated was not going to be achieved, and so Narada was sent as an emissary.” In the Kadamb version, Ram then asks Kaikeyi to send him into exile in order to fulfil the purpose of fighting the demons.
 
  “Ram even addresses Kaikeyi as the mother who loved him the most, but she is adamant about letting this separation between her and her beloved child take place,” Sharma said. In this reenactment, Narada pleads with Saraswati, the goddess of learning, to alter Kaikeyi’s thinking, but Ram refuses to allow the wrongful manipulation of his mother. “Ultimately,” said Sharma, “it is through   that Kaikeyi is made to relent.” Sharma added, “We do not show Ravana in a totally negative light either.
 
  He too was a vidwaan. He had several good traits. We depict a much more nuanced character.” In another unusual difference, it will not be Sita who is kidnapped by Ravana, but her alter-ego. “You might think this an absurdity, but reality can be very complex,” said a committee member, who added that the organisers were experimenting with the alternative myths, point of views and versions in the true spirit of the Ramayana. 
 
