CHENNAI: It will take three more years to resolve the   issues which have left the   of a 3km stretch of the Velachery-Tambaram road in a limbo, division state highway officials said.

 “We submitted the land plan schedule (LPS) to the Kancheepuram collectorate two months ago, but there has been no progress in the land acquisition process. For the widening in  , we got the government order and administrative sanction, but it will take another three years for the land acquisition process to be complete,” a state highway official told TOI.
 
 Residents, meanwhile, face the wrath of traffic jams on the narrow stretch from Medavakkam to Pallikaranai, which becomes worse during the peak hours.
 
 “Vehicles move inch by inch in the morning from 9am to 11am. The construction work in Velachery and Madipakkam worsens the traffic condition,” said N Sundaram, president of the Federation of Residents Welfare Association of Pallikaranai.
 
 Another project, the widening of which involved the demolition of a few structures by the 22km-long stretch of the Chennai-Tiruvallur High (CTH) Road irks residents in the area.
 
 “Very shoddily, some small hotels and buildings were brought down. The median was fixed in a hurry with one side of the median remaining wider than the other side. The road is poorly illuminated and without widening, traffic jams and accidents are a daily story,” said Roy Rozario, general secretary of People’s Voice, an NGO.
 
 “Years after the project was handed over to the state highways department from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), there has not been much progress,” Rozario added.
 
 A divisional state highways official said that the LPS was submitted to the collector a year ago, but there has been no action from the collectorate.
 
 “A huge volume of land is needed for work to progress, and the government had instructed the collectorate to have a separate unit for land acquisition. There has been no progress for that either,” the official said.
 
 The Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram collectors were not available for comment.
 
