GURUGRAM: Two car accidents, both ‘minor’, led to brawls and later   on Thursday.

 Veshakha Gulati, an HR executive with a national English daily, was on her way to her Gurgaon home from work in Noida, and had taken the Gurugram-Faridabad highway in the early hours of Thursday. Gulati was sitting next to the driver of the taxi, a Nissan Datsun, she had hired, when a Maruti Swift coming from behind hit the taxi on its left on the second lane of the Bandhwari toll on the highway.
 
 When the taxi driver got out, he was verbally and physically abused by the driver of the other car. Seeing this, toll employees approached them and asked them to settle the dispute and pay the toll. But as they crossed the toll plaza, a fresh argument started. By then, the scrap had already been reported to the police control room. 
 
 When the drivers were arguing, a woman emerged from the other car, came up to Gulati and started hurling abuses at her. “She then slapped me, and started hitting me on my shoulders and pulling my hands,” Gulati told TOI. She got out of the car and called the cops again, which led to another altercation between the two. 
 
 After a few minutes, the two from the other car suddenly decided they had had enough and left.
 
 Physically hurt from the beating, Gulati returned to her car seat, only to realise a gold and diamond bangle she was wearing on her left arm was missing.
 
 She went to the Gwal Pahari police station and narrated the incident, insisting on registering an FIR. She was then taken to DLF Phase 2 police station, where her complaint was registered. An FIR was later filed under sections 279 (rash driving), 336 (act endangering life), 427 (mischief causing damage), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 294 (obscene acts) and 34 (common intent) of the IPC.
 
 Gulati claimed that after the incident, when she went back to the toll plaza and tried to retrieve the footage from that night, she was told the cameras were not working. “I take this route every night, but I’m scared for my safety now. If it could happen at the busiest part near the toll plaza, imagine what can happen in a deserted and unlit stretch, especially to women?” she said.
 
 In a similar incident in Bilaspur on Wednesday evening, Dharmender Kumar, who was returning from Alwar to Gurgaon in his car, was hit by another car near Sidhrawali on NH-8. 
 
 When he stopped the car, 5-6 men came at him, started beating him, snatched his gold chain and Rs 1,07,000 in cash, and fled.
 
 ASI Hawa Singh of Bilaspur police station said a probe had been initiated. 
 
 
