Pune: Four-year old Sammy attends a pre-school for three hours everyday, close to her home in Baner. For that, the school charges Rs50,000 a year.

 Her father Raja Mishra rues that his entire education — from std I to post graduation — cost him less than that. In fact, Mishra says this was on the lower end of the pre-school spectrum. He says he’s heard that many schools charge over Rs60,000. 
 
 Such is the present scenario that pre-schools or   charge as much as, if not more than, engineering colleges. 
 
 Education minister Vinod Tawde on Monday spoke about framing regulations for private playschools. But this was nothing new. 
 
 Even the previous government had considered regulating playschools. A report was even submitted by the then education minister Fauzia Khan. But the plan remained on paper as no concrete decision was taken. 
 
 In the meantime, playschools and pre-schools continued to charge parents lakhs of rupees in fees. 
 
 S Bhonsale, an IT professional whose three-year-old daughter Tashi got admitted to a pre-school, says peer pressure plays a major role in the rising popularity of pre-schools and play groups in Pune. “We all live in housing societies, and when children interact with each other, we can tell the difference — a child who goes to pre-school is more comfortable talking and expressing himself or herself. Besides, there is always the element of peer pressure. If one kid is going to a great pre-school, as a mother I too want the best for my child, and wouldn’t want her to lose out to the competition,” she said.
 
 The ordeal for parents starts the moment the child turns two; in some cases, even one-and-a-half years old 5 when the child is enrolled in a play group. 
 
 With hectic jobs and nuclear families, play groups with an attached crèche in the neighbourhood have become the most-sought after facility for young parents.
 
 Devika K from Pashan says she spends Rs40,000 a term for the three-hour pre-school that her child attends. “High schools with attached pre-schools charge over Rs60,000 a year. The play group runs two hours daily, and even that costs me Rs40,000 a term. Then the crèche attached to the group charges Rs1,000 per hour,” said Devika.
 
 Every parent TOI talked to was in favour of regulating the fee structure imposed by play groups, crèches and pre schools. “There is a need for regulation, otherwise middle-class parents will be forced to spend every penny they earn on school and pre-school education. And this never ends, as professional colleges again charge a lot. Basically there is a need for the women and child development ministry and education ministry at both the Centre and state to draw up a plan so that parents are not fleeced by such schools,” Raja Mishra said.
 
 
