RANCHI: A team of  , working in association with  , arrested CPI (Maoist) zonal committee member   from a poultry farm under   in Haryana on Sunday. 

 Shyam was carrying a reward of Rs 5 lakh on his head and was wanted in more than three dozen cases, most of which were related to arson, murder, Arms Act and 17 criminal law amendment (CLA) Act. A case under Arms Act had also been filed against him by Haryana police. Shyam was interrogated there before being handed over to Jharkhand police.
 
 Khunti SP Ashwani Kumar Sinha said the state police is trying to seek his remand as Shyam is accused in 30 cases in Khunti and three each in Ranchi and Saraikela-Kharsawan district. "The first case was lodged against him in a Maoist incident in 2004 in Khunti PS whereas the last case was registered in December 2016. This shows that Pahan has played an active role in Maoist activities for 12 years," Sinha said.
 
 With the arrest of Shyam, police have arrested two out of the three brothers. 
 
 In January, Dimba Pahan, another brother of Kundan and Shyam, who rose to the rank of regional committee member of the CPI (Maoists), had surrendered before Khunti police. Dimba carried a bounty of Rs 15 lakh on his head and was wanted in several cases, including the cases in which Kundan was involved. 
 
 Under the surrender policy of the state government, Khunti SP Sinha, in the presence of DIG south Chotanagpur range RK Dhan, gave him a cheque of Rs15 lakh as compensation.
 
 Kundan Pahan, who is still absconding, is presently a member of Bihar Jharkhand Special Area Committee (BJSAC) and is believed to be the masterminded behind the cash robbery from a van belonging ICICI bank in May 2008. 
 
 Son of Narayan Pahan and a resident of Barigarha village under Arki police station of Khunti district, the three brothers are suspected to have played an important role in the murder of former minister Ramesh Singh Munda and special branch inspector Francis Induwar.
 
 Sinha said following the arrest of Shyam, police are now trying to collect information about Kundan Pahan. "We have separate strategies for all the active members and his (Shyam) depositions could be of some help in that direction," he said.
 
 
