NASHIK: The state   has sought information from the Nashik Municipal Corporation ( ) about the status of   passing through the city.

 The department wants to know whether these roads are officially notified as highways since it has to carry out measurements of roads to identify   and bars within the 500 metre radius. As per the Supreme Court order, licenses of such shops would not be renewed after March 31.
 
 The apex court had recently ordered ban on sale and consumption of liquor within 500 metre from state and national highways across the country. Accordingly, the Maharashtra government has also decided not to renew licenses of liquor shops after March 31 and it has already issued a circular in this regard.
 
 Other than this, the excise department has already started carrying out measurement on the highways to identify liquor shops and bars within 500 metre radius from the highways.
 
 Excise department has conducted measurements of the highways — not falling under the NMC — in the district with the help of   (NHAI) and Public Works Department (PWD).
 
 An official from the excise department said, “As per the Supreme Court’s order and directives of the state government, we have already started measurement in co-operation with highway authority and the PWD. But the highway authority and PWD have denied measurement on the highways passing thought the city or roads falling under the jurisdiction of the NMC stating that the civic body carries out the maintenance work on these roads.”
 
 He added, “Hence, we wanted to know the status of roads in the city that are part of the state highways and falling under the NMC’s jurisdiction. Hence, we have written to the NMC to know about roads that are officially notified as highways. Our further action depends on the NMC’s reply.”
 
 According to the excise department, there are a total of 1,100 liquor shops, permit rooms and bars across the district. Of these, 60% of total shops and bars are along the state and national highways.
 
