CHANDIGARH: While seizure of record of the prestigious   (MNSS) at Rai in Sonipat has triggered a war between two Haryana cabinet ministers, an audit of its accounts by the state government has pointed out that books purchased for the academic session 2016-17 were not even distributed to the students.

 A scrutiny of the school’s account from April 1, 2015, to January 1, 2017, has found embezzlement, fraudulent payments and misappropriation of funds in the purchase of sports material, furniture and other items in the school.
 
 Senior IPS officer and director of the school  , however, has termed the findings of the report as “one-sided”, “unethical” and prepared without seeking comment from or hearing the school authorities.
 
 The matter pertains to alleged financial irregularities in the school and alleged interference of the finance department, headed by Captain  , in the school’s affairs. The audit report has added a twist to an ongoing tussle between the two senior state ministers over alleged irregularities at the school. In a strongly-worded letter, forwarded to the CM’s office on February 22, 2017, sports minister   had sought a “high-level inquiry by a senior IAS may be ordered and interference of unconcerned ministry may be stopped immediately”. Without naming anyone in the letter, Vij had stated in his note that “certain officers of the school are directly making complaints regarding the functioning of the institution to other minister and not me”. The school comes under the sports department.
 
 According to the audit report, syllabus books for session 2016-17 for classes VII to XII were purchased for Rs 2.92 lakh but not a single book was given to the students till January 31, 2017. “Thus purchasing of books without actual requirement is an explicit example of misuse of government fund. Whereas, there is every chance of these books may have become obsolete and deplete in the next session,” said the report. It has also been found that these books were purchased just in three days from March 26 to 29, 2016, just to exhaust the budget in contravention of rules.
 
 Similarly, the report has also pointed out that payment to a private firm of around Rs 2.25 lakh in excess for shifting of 11KV line from hockey ground. It also found “loss of lakhs of rupees” in the purchase of T-shirts, tracksuit, basketballs and tennis raquets, which were purchased without requirements.
 
 As per the report, accessed by TOI, in most of the cases purchases were made in piecemeal to avoid sanction of higher authority. 
 
 The audit team also went to the extent of finding irregularities in very routine transactions of school, including purchase of sweets for school events, curtains, chairs, non-maintenance of inventory of food items in school mess and even in the irregular payment in purchase of “parali” (paddy straw) for horse stable in the school.
 
 When asked about the findings, school director Arora said it was unfortunate that instead of sending the report to the head of the department, it was released to the media.
 
 “No procedure has been followed in the report, as it has been prepared without seeking comments from the school. Various objections have been raised in the report without even hearing the school and understanding the issue. I would say the entire report is one-sided and unethically prepared,” said Arora.
 
 Audit team says ‘thanks’
 
 Though the director of national sports school Bharti Arora has moved a complaint against the audit team seeking registration of police case for illegally taking away the records from the school, the audit team has conveyed “thanks” to the school authorities for extending their cooperation to the team in discharging their “cumbersome” duties.
 
