INDORE: The members of   Bus Body Builders Association of Indore protested against provision of new bus code-AIC 052. The government has recently brought an amendment in section 125 C of Central Motor Vehicles Rules that deals with accreditation of   and replaced it with the new sub-rule 125 (1). With the new sub-rule, the government has changed parameters for the body builders, who do not have accreditation. 

 Apart from basic parameters, the bus code requires the bus body builders to pay a fixed amount of fee for issuance of fitness certificate for each of their custom bus model. The state government had released a notification in this regard in which bus chassis purchased and customized after February 13, 2017 will be issued fitness only if its body builder has paid the prescribed fee for the particular model. 
 
 “We have been instructed to pay a huge amount of fee for each of our body model. This fee ranges from Rs 10-12 lakh,” the association president   told TOI.
 
 We do not even earn this much amount in a year, then how would we be able to pay the fee for accreditation of each of our model, he added.
 
 There are about 300 body builders involved in custom bus body building business and most of them operate at a small scale. “Compliance with such stringent parameters is likely to put all of us at the risk of losing business,” he said. 
 
 Jangid also said that in addition to the fee, the new bus code also requires us to comply with several other parameters like the floor levels, gangways, dimension of foot-steps, seats, seating layout, hand rails and hand holds, lighting and illumination, driver’s work place, driver’s field of vision, designs of emergency exits, fire safety, window frames and their placement. 
 
 The association members recently met deputy transport commissioner Sanjay Soni and have requested him to give relaxation in compliance of new rule for at least six months to finish and settle down their existing orders that will save them from loss. 
 
 
