NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Friday stayed the government’s   admission notification that made it mandatory for private unaided   schools to admit students in the unreserved category on the basis of neighbourhood criteria. The order has come as a   for minority-run schools. 

 Justice Manmohan, who had warned a day earlier that the notification appeared flawed with respect to forcing the neighbourhood criteria on these schools, stayed the notification, reminding the AAP government to first bring its own schools up to the mark before trying to impose their admission norms on private institutions.
 
 “Your (Delhi government) public schools...are pathetic, where teachers do not even come. People don’t want to study in them even if they are free of cost,” the court observed, saying the   judgments on minority educational institutions make it clear they have full autonomy in fixing admission criteria.
 
 Staying the January 7 notification with respect to minority schools, the court said “they are free to devise their own procedures and should be treated differently.” Directorate of Education (DoE) had earlier defended the LG’s notification, arguing that such schools can fill minority children under their own criteria but while admitting children from general category, the neighbourhood norm must be followed.
 
 However, the high court noted that “prima facie the Delhi government notification, dated January 7, 2017, is contrary to the constitutional mandate. This court is also of the prima facie view that the fundamental right of minority schools cannot be interfered with and their right to admit students cannot be taken away. Minority schools have the right of maximum administration which cannot be taken away by any terms of contract.”
 
 The high court clarified that minority schools are entitled to admit students in their own manner as long as there is no mismanagement. It also rapped DoE for issuing such a notification “at the eleventh hour, putting everyone in a chaos-like situation” and stressed that in future, DoE should “make an endeavour to frame such policy, if any, at least six months in advance, if not earlier".
 
 Appearing for the minority schools advocate   had argued that keeping in view the decision of the apex court and HC, such schools are entitled to admit students according to their own procedures as long as they are fair and transparent.
 
 The court has now fixed the petitions for further hearing on March 21 and asked Delhi government to file their reply.
 
 
