HYDERABAD: Vehicular traffic in the Hyderabad metropolitan region will soon have a   movement. This is because the Roads and Buildings (R&B) department has begun laying the ambitious Regional   (RRR) from Sangareddy to Kandi. This is in addition to the existing 158-km Outer Ring Road.

  The 70-km of the total 346 km stretch is being developed into a four-lane road by the state government while the remaining length is slated to be taken up with financial assistance from the Union ministry of road transport as most of the RRR falls under the national highways. 
 
 Officials said once the RRR is completed, those travelling from Pune to Vijayawada can take RRR at Sangareddy and directly reach Choutuppal. R&B department officials said for the convenience of preparation of detailed project report (DPR), fixing alignment of the road, land acquisition and also execution, the 346 km has been divided into northern and southern parts. While the northern part covers 163 km road and passes from Sangareddy to Choutuppaly via Toopran, Gajwel, Janagaon,
 Bhongir and Choutuppaly, the 183-km southern corridor from Choutuppal, Ibrahimpatnam, Kadthal, Shadnagar, Chevella, Kandi ends at Sangareddy. “DPR for the northern corridor has already been prepared and the state government is in the process of appointing a consultant for the southern corridor. Simultaneously, works on Sangareddy will continue,” roads and buildings (R&B) department engineerin-chief I Ganapathy Reddy told TOI.
 
  Chief minister K  , who spoke to Union minister for transport Nitin Gadkari on Monday on various flyover projects in the city, also requested the latter to sanction financial assistance for the northern corridor for which the detailed project report has already been sent to the Centre. Interestingly, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA), a couple of years ago, had proposed the Regional Ring Road for about 290 kms to improve the   Ring Road and ease traffic congestion on the city roads. It was proposed in the Hyderabad metropolitan regional master plan for a width of 200 ft. 
 
 The RRR is proposed with a 90-metre Right of Way (six lanes) from areas such as Toopran, Narsapur, Sanga Reddy, Eddumailaram, Chevella, Shabad, Shadnagar, Daudguda, Gundelaguda, Ibrahimnagar,   But chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao last year asked the R&B department to take over the project as most of the road stretch either falls under the national or state hi
 
