JALANDHAR: Days after Supreme Court stated that it would ensure implementation of its decree for completion of the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal,   president Captain   said on Sunday used the issue during his campaign trail by saying that he was ready to go to jail for defying the court orders if needed but would not let a single drop of water leave the state.

 “I am prepared to go behind bars. I will defy any orders to save Punjab waters,” Amarinder announced while addressing a meet of ex-servicemen at Jamsher village, which is a part of the   assembly constituency.
 
 Later, addressing a press conference at a separate venue, he said he was ready to face wrath of the apex court as already great injustice had been done with Punjab, and if voted to power he would not allow completion of SYL canal or any more water flowing out of the state come what may.
 
 However, he also added that he would first work for legal solution and needed two-third majority to safeguard interests of Punjab through legislation by enacting new laws. “We also need to tell the Supreme Court that Punjab already suffered injustice as the assets between Punjab and Haryana were distributed on the basis of 60:40 ratio and while water from Punjab rivers was being diverted to Haryana, our state was not given any thing from Yamuna which was also part of undivided Punjab,” he argued, asking, “where is justice with Punjab in this.”
 
 “No more injustice would be allowed. If SYL is constructed, about 10 lakh acres of southern Punjab would go dry and six lakh families would come on roads, which the next Congress government will prevent by bringing in tough legislations through majority in the assembly,” he added.
 
 Turning towards SAD-BJP government he also held that while state exchequer was receiving only Rs 35 crores from license fee of sand mining, the total business was worth around Rs 6,000, crores and the rest entire amount was going to the mining mafia and the SAD leaders.
 
 Goes beyond manifesto to announce sops
 
 Amarinder Singh also announced to lower petrol prices by Rs three and LPG cylinder by Rs 15 in Punjab to bring the rates at par with Chandigarh and neighbouring states by reworking on the tax structure. He also announced free bus passes to all senior citizens, ex-servicemen and retired personnel of paramilitary forces and to bring down duty on power supply by 10%.
 
 Echoes Arvind
 
 When AAP chief   has written to ECI to withdraw his security paraphernalia in Punjab, Punjab Congress chief Captain Amarinder Sing on Sunday also underlined the need to divert policemen from wasteful VVIP duties to maintain law and order in the state.
 
 Ultimatum to rebel candidates
 
 Stating that he had taken AICC approval for life time expulsion of rebel candidates, Punjab Congress chief Captain Amarinder Singh served 48 hours ultimatum to rebel candidates to retire from the contest or face action. Asked that expulsions had been happening in past but later such leaders were taken back on the party fold, Amarinder said that that was true but this time this was decision of the party and he had even taken AICC’s approval for life expulsion. “Now they will never be taken back for spoiling the chances of the party in the elections,” he said. It is learnt that some rebel candidates owe allegiance to Amarinder’s detractors in the party and his camp has the feeling that they did not withdrew nomination on indications from their mentors within the party who fear that if party would win under Amarinder then their careers would be eclipsed.
 
