KANPUR: Just as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has stopped taking the name of Bihar after his party’s defeat in that state, he won’t be heard taking the name of Uttar Pradesh after the assembly elections here, said   vice president Rahul Gandhi, addressing a joint election meeting along with chief minister   Yadav at GIC (Government Inter College) ground here on Sunday. 

 A day after the war of words between Modi and Akhilesh over their own individual full forms of SCAM, Rahul announced his own version. “S is for sewa (service) of poor, C for courage, A for ability and M for modesty to forgive mistakes as nobody is perfect,” said Rahul, adding that Modi coming up with new abbreviations is only a sign of his being terrified of the SP-Congress alliance in UP. “He used to smile a lot but these days that smile is wiped out of his face,” said Rahul.
 
 Quoting lines of a poem by Shamsher Bahadur Singh —‘Main Hindi aur Urdu ka Doaab hoon, Main woh aaina hoon, jismein hum aur aap hain’ the bridge between Hindi and Urdu and that mirror that reflects you—Rahul said about himself and Akhilesh, “Hum dono mein farq hai itna, ek kehta hai khwaab, ek kahta hai sapna. (We differ only in that one uses the Hindi word for dream, the other says it in Urdu)”. 
 
 Rahul said PM Modi will realise what people think of his ‘notebandi’ (demonetisation) decision after the UP elections. “Farmers don’t take cheques and Modi has created problem for the poor,” said Rahul, suggesting to Akhilesh Yadav to come up with a ‘Youth's Common Minimum Manifesto’for youths from poor financial background. “Open coaching institutes for students from the weaker section and help them get selected for IIT, IIM and medicine studies. When someone from the crowd shouted ‘Narendra Modi murdabad’, Rahul said, “Instead of venting your anger here, go and vote against BJP and help SP-Congress win 300 seats.” 
 
 He also cited Modi’s ‘Make In India’ campaign saying, “Everything we use is actually ‘Made In China’ but when SP-Congress combine comes to power, products will be ‘Made In Kanpur...Jhansi...Lucknow...Saharanpur, etc” and added that after polls, the cycle (SP poll symbol) will “run like a motorcycle.”
 
 Striking a note of communal unity, Rahul said, “Let us give RSS and BJP the clear message that UP is a land of love with no place for them to spread hatred. Our alliance will work for all, particularly poor, youth and women in the state.” 
 
 In an answer to Modi’s SCAM jibe—’SP, Congress, Akhilesh, Maya’—Akhilesh Yadav said, “This SCAM is going to remain in UP, while its people are prepared to ward off your kind of SCAM—Save the country from Amit (Shah) and (Narendra) Modi. I don’t know why the prime minister is attacking the BSP though his party had joined hands with them in the past and ‘Bua’ (Mayawati) even celebrated Raksha Bandhan with BJP leaders.” 
 
 Speaking about the alliance with Congress, Akhilesh said: “Our coalition will not only retain power in UP, it will change the direction of the country's politics.” Justifying the seat-sharing formula for the two parties, Yadav said his party had a big heart and believed in long term relationship. “People these days are questioning why I gave so many seats to Congress. I would like to tell them all that we are not ‘kanjoos’ and believe in long-term relationship.” 
 
 In the Union Budget, no provisions were made for farmers, poor and workers, said Akhilesh. Taking a dig on BJP's demonetisation scheme, he said, “A baby was born in this region while his mother was in an ATM queue and while the bank staff christened him Khazanchi (cashier), my government gifted him Rs 2 lakh. Did BJP extend any support to family members of those who died in bank queues?”
 
 
