NEW DELHI: With most AAP members and volunteers away in Punjab and Goa for the better part of December and January, the party’s office on   wore a desolate look for several weeks. Now, that most people are back and the party has started preparations for the upcoming municipal elections, the place has come back to life even as scores of ticket hopefuls and general hangers-on have made their way to the AAP headquarters.

 On Wednesday, the state election commission announced the reservation of seats for Scheduled Caste (SC) and women candidates. While AAP says its focus will be on the youth, many of whom will come from the party’s pool of volunteers, it has also taken a decision not to field any “dummy candidates”, especially on seats reserved for women.
 
 “Seats for women were reserved to aid in their empowerment. However, what happens most frequently is that candidates on such seats usually turn out to be the wives of established politicians. In most cases, the husbands run the show, taking decisions, meeting people and even campaigning on behalf of their wives,” said a senior party member.
 
 “Both BJP and Congress practice this and will find it difficult to break away from the system since all existing councillors, whose seats have now become reserved, will ask for their wives to be fielded from there. AAP, because it is a new party and believes in women’s rights, will make sure that women candidates are established people in their own right and not used as puppets by relatives.” 
 
 AAP’s Delhi convener Dilip Pandey said that the party would follow the “4C” formula for candidate selection. “We will look for aspects of character, criminality, corruption and communalism in the candidates. Applications will be opened up shortly and candidates will be shortlisted after consultations with local volunteers. The final decision will be taken by the party’s parliamentary affairs committee,” added Pandey.
 
 Pitching this is as hyper local elections, the party will simultaneously assess the reputation of all candidates by conducting surveys. “We will form teams of volunteers and send them to each ward to assess a candidate’s reputation. This feedback will ensure that the candidate we finally select has an impeccable record and is a respectable citizen,” said Pandey.
 
 
