Kolkata: Chief minister   met  , wife of   — who died at   on March 13 following a leg amputation — at her Kalighat residence on Wednesday. The CM interacted with her and assured the family of ‘doing whatever possible by the government’ to ensure a proper probe into Pandey’s death. The CM also assured the widow a government job.

 “The chief minister gave me a patient hearing and said that she was aware of the matter. She has assured us that steps will be taken after investigations are over. Action will also be taken if doctors are found to be involved,” Sujata said.
 
 “The CM also assured me a government job since my husband was the only earning member in the family. Meeting her gives me a lot of hope,” she added. 
 
 Forty two-year-old Pandey, who was into medical media publications, was admitted to the hospital on March 6 for an angioplasty. The family cried medical   after his left left leg had to be amputated, eventually leading to Pandey’s death. After lodging a complaint with the police on Monday, they met health department officials on Tuesday.
 
 Meanwhile, all treatment documents, investigation records and the CD of Pandey’s angiography have been sent to the police by Medica Superspecialty Hospital. On Tuesday, the police had sought some additional documents from the hospital following the detection of two unexplained marks on Pandey’s chest. While the hospital claimed that the marks might have been caused during a chest massage to resuscitate Pandey who had suffered a massive heart attack on March 6, the police have sought documentary evidence. 
 
 Cops said they have asked for amputated leg from the hospital. “The autopsy report will not be complete without it, the autopsy surgeon has said. Unless we get the completed postmortem report, we cannot begin summoning the doctors involved with Pandey’s treatment,” said a senior officer. Cops maintained that they are in touch with   to ascertain the future course of action.
 
 “We have furnished all the relevant documents, including a CD of the angioplasty that had been done on Pandey. Every little detail has been provided and we believe that the evidences are enough to rule out medical negligence,” said Alok Roy, chairman, Medica Superspecialty. The hospital has also sent a bill for the stent that it claimed had been inserted into Pandey’s cardiac artery. 
 
 Friends and relatives of Pandey also took out a candle light procession in Patuli on Wednesday evening demanding justice for the deceased. 
 
 
