GURUGRAM:   and   have achieved plenty on the golf course. Now, they’re looking to give back to the game. And in their sights are boys and girls who have never before stepped on to a green or a fairway (let alone heard of someone called  ).

 The ‘Ultimate Foundation’, based out of the Golden Greens Golf Resort, off NH-8, is introducing the game of golf to marginalised children, who study in government schools (or those run by NGOs) in and around Gurgaon. In their endeavour, mentors Singh and Randhawa are joined by coaches Pritam Saikia and Sundeep ‘Chimmy’ Verma, and active volunteer Navita Mansingh, besides a team of around 40 dedicated volunteers.
 
 Last summer, the Foundation began reaching out to schools like Champa Devi International. “Some of the schools discouraged their students from going to a golf course. Others were worried whether they would be allowed in,” shared Mansingh. “Principals were concerned that their students would be discriminated against if they came in school uniform!”
 
 But such worries were misplaced, for it has turned into many a joyous day out for the schoolkids. Once inside the gates, the boys and girls, mostly barefoot, would be given a run of the place, to get them comfortable with their surroundings. The golf can come later. “A golf course is a place of activity and fun,” Singh told TOI. “And it’s great seeing the thrill on the kids’ faces.”
 
 Each screening session – held once every week, always during school time – lasts between three and four hours. Kids, some as young as five, are taken in small batches, with around 40-45 to each batch. And Digvijay believes the earlier they are introduced, the better it is. “They’ll pick up something just by looking at it,” he says.
 
 “We don’t want finished products, we want to mould them. But you also don’t want to teach them too much too early.”
 
 Some have certainly caught the eye, including a couple of girls from Bagiya (two schools in Sector 50 that teach disadvantaged children from neighbouring slums and villages), and an 11-year-old lad, Mohammed Samir, from Champa Devi (who, Saikia excitedly claims, possesses a natural swing).
 
 Of course, there are challenges. Like paying for the kids’ transport from their schools to the golf course. But, in a heart-warming aside, an uncle of the Bagiya students volunteered to take his nieces to every coaching day, on his scooter. Here, clearly, is someone who is happy to support the girls, and their golfing dreams.
 
 So far, close to 1,000 young ones have been screened since the first of the weekly sessions was held, back in September. In January, 17 promising golfers, selected from a group of 40, were identified for further coaching. As part of a three-month course, they have been training for four hours every week, in addition to committing to a day of practice.
 
 “We don’t know what’s going to happen three months down the line, but obviously the aim is to make these kids into golfers,” says Digvijay.
 
 “We’re doing what we can, but we want to make this long term,” admits Saikia. “The idea is to make them into athletes first, then they can play any sport. Because speed, running, hand-eye coordination – these are common across all sports.”
 
 There is no containing the youngsters’ excitement when they see someone drive it long. And for Singh and Randhawa, still teeing it up professionally, suddenly coming across a natural swing is as feelgood a moment as hitting one down the fairway, or holing a 50-footer.
 
