PUNE: A 77-year-old farmer from   allegedly committed suicide by consuming pesticide on Friday.

 His family members claimed that he was under “severe mental stress“ over the recent developments related to   and the farmers' relocation and rehabilitation to facilitate the proposed   at Purandar.
 
 The deceased,  , owned around 7 acre land in Purandar. The   have registered a case of unnatural death and sent the viscera for a chemical analysis. The report is expected in the next three to four days.
 
 “As of now, we cannot say much about the incident. The deceased consumed some pesticide. His viscera report will give us more details. The police will talk to his family members as well,“ Jejuri police head constable M K Kadam, who is investigating the case, told TOI on Sunday.
 
 Shankar's nephew, Anil Ankush Memane, who lives in the same house, said he had received a call from his cousin, Shivaji (one of Shankar's sons), informing that Shankar had consumed some pesticide in his room and lost consciousness around 11.30am. “ At that time, only Shankar and Shivaji (40) were at home. The rest of us had gone to see an ailing relative. Soon after Shivaji's call, we immediately returned home,“ he said.
 
 The family members took Shankar to a private hospital in Saswad where the doctors tried to pump out whatever he had consumed. But as his condition did not improve, the doctors advised them to take him to Sassoon General Hospital in Pune.
 
 Anil said, “At the Saswad hospital, we checked his shirt pockets and found some newspaper clippings related to the developments about the airport project.“
 
 At the Sassoon hospital, the family could not find a vacancy in the ICU and shifted Shankar to the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital in Pimpri. He died on Saturday morning.
 
 Former Pargaon village sarpanch Jitendra Memane said, “Shankar was not willing to part ways with his plot. He used to read all news reports regarding the land acquisition moves for the airport project.“
 
