Niharika.Alva

 Bengaluru: It all started with a survey to understand the reasons for increasing crime and suicide incidents among the young population. The result social activist Bharathi Singh found out was startling enough to prompt her to launch an initiative--- Yuvahelpline in 2008.
 
 The SA-Mudra Yuvahelpline, an exclusive youth-centric helpline, Bharathi says, has helped over 6,000 (15-25 age group) people get a hold of their lives.
 
 “In most cases, the reason was failure of some sort -- academic, employment or relationship. Everyone I met did not have the much-needed intervention to sail through hardships. I realized if we help youngsters handle their failure in a better way, intervene earlier on, guide and counsel them, we can prevent them from going down these paths. Those aged between 15 and 20 are confused about the role they play, their parents might treat them like adults one moment and children the next. They also face peer pressure, exams, relationship issues; the list is endless,” says Bharathi.
 
 The helpline sees spike in number of calls during the board exam months of January to April every year. “Students are under tremendous pressure. At the same time, they are dealing with parental expectations. Some parents think they are doing the right thing forcing their children to study throughout the day and preventing them from other activities such as sports and arts which is in fact counter-productive,” she points out.
 
 Other issues include family, romance, unassertiveness, lack of employment and depression. The helpline gets a large number of calls from northern states of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.
 
 If necessary, those in need are called to the centre for regular sessions. Close to 200 students volunteer for the centre, recommending the facility to those in need. “We also work closely with colleges. Our helpline number is available on the SSLC board website,” Bharathi says.
 
 Counsellors, psychologists, psychiatrists and college counsellors work in tandem at the centre. Bharathi, however, doesn’t believe in prescribing drugs if not necessary. “In most cases, the problem is either failure of a job, opportunity or exam or the fear of failure. What we try and explain to them is that failure is not the end, but just a feedback.”
 
 Training for the poor
 
 For the poor and the unemployed, the centre conducts a 4-month ‘Moulya-Kaushalya’ session. It includes counselling, capacity-building training and a placement fair. Focusing on basic skills and values, students are taught responsible citizenship---how to apply for PAN cards and drivers’ licence and file police complaints. Female students are given self defence classes, professional skills such as basic computing, interview training and retail skills. “We’ve had companies like Pantaloons, Reliance, McDonalds and Eureka Forbes come for placements. Every single participant leaves with a solid offer letter in hand,” she claims.
 
 College reaches out to the needy
 
 Montfort College, which also has a helpline, collaborates with over 100 schools and colleges to deliver professional counselling services to students as well as their parents and teachers. Trainee counsellors from Montfort, visit these schools and colleges every week.
 
 Close to 40% of the cases in the centre focus on child and adolescent counselling/development. The college also has a distress helpline. Common problems observed among student communities include deficit in study skills, bullying, self-injurious behaviour/suicidal thoughts, peer pressure, substance abuse, sexual abuse and family issues.
 
 
