Mumbai: Three days after CBI arrested a deputy commissioner of income-tax (I-T) in a Rs 3-crore bribery case, two of his seniors, an additional commissioner and a principal commissioner, have been transferred to  , sources said.

 The two officers were transferred on Tuesday to salary charge, which is a non-assesment posting. The principal commissioner was transferred within a month of his posting, sources said. 
 
 On September 22, CBI arrested deputy commissoner of I-T Jaipal Swamy, his   associate Kamlesh Shah along with his employee for allegedly accepting Rs 3.09 crore   through three cheques from the complainant, a businessman. It was decided that the complainant would pay Shah by cheques, who would then give gold jewellery worth Rs 3 crore—around 10kg—to Swamy. The bribe amount was Rs 3 crore and Swamy asked the complainant to pay Rs 9 lakh as GST to the jeweller to make the gold purchase transaction look genuine on the latter’s record.
 
 TOI tried to contact two senior I-T officers and even visited Aaykar Bhavan, but no one was ready to discuss the case. CBI officials too declined to comment. 
 
 On Thursday, a special court remanded Swamy, Shah and his employee into judicial custody. Their bail pleas will be heard on October 3. 
 
 CBI, in its remand application, said it is investigating the role of other officers in the case. “The investigation is at a crucial stage. The role of other I-T officers regarding forceful recovery of Rs 3.41 crore from the bank account of the complainant’s company is being probed,” stated the remand application filed in court on Thursday. 
 
 It added that Swamy was questioned on the role of other officers in the ‘forceful recovery of the amount’. The I-T department had attached the complainant’s bank account and on September 12, made him pay Rs 3.41 crore towards tax dues. A week later, Swamy began demanding Rs 3 crore bribe from the complainant claiming he had received a letter alleging serious irregularities. 
 
 Swamy’s advocate Sujay Kantawala said, “The forceful recovery issue is not connected with the bribery case. The complainant is using CBI to harass other I-T officers for penalizing him.”
 
