AGRA: In yet another case of atrocity on Dalits in  's stronghold of  , a dalit family was allegedly beaten up and an animal shed outside their house was burnt by an   in  , Mainpuri, on Saturday evening, on the trivial issue of them not greeting him.

 Talking to TOI, the 35-year-old Dalit,  , said he was working in fields near his house when   crossed him. He said Chotte Lala got infuriated as he did not greet him with "Ram Ram", and started abusing him.
 
 "He took off his slippers and started beating me. My wife, Meera, and brother, Shyam Sunder, intervened but they too were thrashed", he alleged.
 
 Hariom said he later went to Chotelala’s house to complain about his behaviour to his family where another altercation happened. "I returned home around 7.30 PM and a little later Chote Lala arrived there along with his associates from nearby village of Bajhera and they again assaulted me and my family", he said.
 
 He alleged that Chote Lala and his associates also fired six rounds in the air and set the animal shed outside his house afire.
 
 Talking to TOI, superintendent of police,   said an FIR has been registered against five people including Chotelala (Daulatpur), Chotu and Sumani (Bajhera village). He said Chote lala’s father Balram Singh, has been arrested and a search is on for the others who are absconding.
 
 He said the suspects were booked under various including rioting, assault and attempt to murder, besides  .
 
 BSP's Agra mandal coordinator, Deepak Paintar also visited Hariom’s house. He said if the accused are not been arrested within two days, they would launch an agitation against the police.
 
 This incident comes five months after a poor Dalit couple, Bharat Singh and Mamta were chased and hacked to death by Ashok Mishra, a Brahmin shopkeeper, in Mainpuri on July 28 as they were unable to repay his debt of a mere Rs 15. The suspect had chased the hapless couple down with an axe and hacked them in front of horrified villagers.
 
 On the fateful day Bharat and Mamta were heading towards their field, Mishra confronted them for repayment of Rs 15. Told that they hadn't been able to organise it, Mishra ran to his house, grabbed an axe and started assaulting Bharat, severing his head in the process. As Bharat lay on the ground bleeding and Mamata begged Mishra to spare her husband's life, he turned to her and broke open her skull with repeated blows of the weapon.
 
