PANAJI: Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday said it has attached properties worth Rs 1.95 crore belonging to former Congress chief minister   and former PWD minister Churchill Alemao in the   bribery case, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).

 Louis Berger International Inc, a New Jersey-based   firm, had been charged with paying a bribe of a little under $1 million (over Rs 6 crore) for projects in Goa and Guwahati in a US court. Those bribed included a minister, whose name has not been revealed in documents released by the US justice department. 
 
 In August 7, 2015, ED registered an enforcement case information report (ECIR) against "ministers" of the Goa government in 2010, Louis Berger International Inc and others, in connection with the bribery scam to probe the financial angle. This was two months after the crime branch had initiated investigation into the case.
 
 On Thursday, based on its investigation, ED attached movable and immovable properties worth Rs 1.20 crore belonging to Kamat. It includes a plot of land admeasuring 4,047 sq feet situated at Gogol, a flat at Taleigao and fixed deposits of Rs 41.35 lakh were attached, sources said
 
 Similarly, ED attached properties worth Rs 75 lakh belonging to Alemao, including eight apartments at   village worth Rs 75 lakh as per the registered sale value of 2009. 
 
 ED’s investigation under PMLA were to unearth the financial trail of the proceeds of crime obtained by the accused person in the case, the sources said.
 
 James McClung, who was in charge of the company’s India operations, is presently imprisoned in US, ED sources said further investigation is in progress. 
 
 Officials of Louis Berger, Nihon Suido Consultants Company Ltd, Japan, NGS Consultants Company Ltd, Japan, Shah Technical Consultancy Company Ltd, India and other government officials and hawala operators were examined during the investigation which led to allegedly laundered assets.
 
 In September 2015, the crime branch of the Goa police had filed a chargesheet in the Louis Berger bribery case against former PWD minister Churchill Alemao and six others on the basis of evidence of corruption of Rs 1.95 crore.
 
 The 482-page chargesheet filed before the special court states that the crime branch has been able to establish that main conspirator, Kamat, received a bribe of Rs 1.2 crore, while Alemao received Rs 75 lakh.
 
 Subsequently in October 2016, the crime branch filed a 350-page supplementary chargesheet in the case against Kamat.
 
 While former PWD minister and co-accused Alemao was arrested in the case immediately, the crime branch had failed to get police custody of Kamat despite accusing him of being the main conspirator in the case. 
 
 Both Kamat and Alemao said they are not aware of the development. Sources said that the two have a month’s time to challenge the ED order to attach their properties before the adjudicating authority in New Delhi. After hearing both the parties, the authority has 180 days to give its decision, sources added.
 
 
