PATNA: People complaining about alleged harassment by those manning the   on the city roads can heave a sigh of relief, at least for a week from Wednesday, as the district administration has started demarcating parking and no-parking zones afresh. The drive, ordered by Patna divisional commissioner  , will continue till May 16. 

 “For seven days from Wednesday, jam-busters will not pick up vehicles parked on city roadside as the service has been suspended for identifying new parking and no-parking zones. The new parking and no-parking zones will be demarcated using yellow lines along with traffic signs,” Kishor told TOI on Wednesday. There will be specific parking lots for cars, autorickshaws, two-wheelers and buses. 
 
 The district administration will review the parking and no-parking zones on the main roads of Patna, especially around Gandhi Maidan, Boring Road, Boring Canal Road, Fraser Road, Exhibition Road, Sahdeo Mahto Marg, Nala Road, Malahi Pakri and   ( ). 
 
 Four separate teams headed by Patna traffic SP, regional transport authority’s secretary, executive engineer (New Capital Division) of road construction department and executive officer of   (New Capital Circle) will visit these areas to identify the spaces for demarcation and submit their reports by May 13. “The teams will also check other roads as per the parking need,” Kishor said.
 
 “Based on the reports, the new zones will be demarcated latest by May 16. The jam-busters will be back in business from May 17 and pick up vehicles parked anywhere other than in the newly allotted parking zones,” Kishor said. 
 
 He said apart from parking and no-parking zones, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) would launch an anti-encroachment drive in Boring Road and Boring Canal Road areas from May 13 to May 16. “My office has received a lot of complaints regarding encroachment by vendors even in parking zones in those areas,” he added. 
 
 PMC commissioner Abhishek Singh said they would follow the guidelines and remove encroachment from all areas in Patna in the coming days. “We will start with removing temporary encroachments and submit a proposal to the DM’s office to remove permanent encroachments,” Singh said. 
 
 
