BHOPAL: Just a day before his appearance in court,   Ashish Chaturvedi the whistle blower of Vyapam scam on bicycle with his security guard in Gwalior. was attacked by four youths and threatened that his entire family would be wiped out if he continued with his activism. His PSO was also manhandled, said sources.

 This comes on the heels of Chaturvedi’s request to Malkhan Singh, Chambal’s terror in the 1980s, to be protected by a band of surrendered dacoits.
 
 The attack took place at 5.30pm near Gwalior’s City Centre area when Chaturvedi was distributing wedding invitation cards of his younger sister. Prompt action by Gwalior IG Anil Kumar and SP Dr Ashish led to the arrest of one the accused within a few hours, said sources. 
 
 “I was standing near a tea stall when four of them came in a car and started abusing me. They attacked me without provocation. When my security guard tried to save me, he too was manhandled,” said Chaturvedi. He has to appear on court on Monday to record his statement against scam suspect Rahul Yadav. 
 
 “Threats come every time there is a hearing. There is something fishy in this. But I am not scared,” he said. Chaturvedi ’s security guard Ramvir Singh has given his statement to police, saying the accused came in a car with registration number MP07CC 9846, registered in the name of Sanjeev Rajoria, a resident of Amaltas Colony. Before fleeing, the attackers threatened that Chaturvedi’s entire family would be shot dead and he “cannot do anything against accused Deepak and Rahul Yadav”. IG Anil Kumar and SP Dr Ashish have assured him complete security cover during the marriage on February 28.
 
 “One of the accused has been arrested and we are looking for the rest,” the SP said. This is the fifteenth attack on Chaturvedi, who is complainant in the case against Rahul Yadav. He had alleged despite Rahul having failed in Class 12 he was given admission in Gwalior Medical College. Rahul’s brother Deepak Yadav is a key accused in the Vyapam scam.
 
 In 2015, Chaturvedi had approached police demanding more security. His former PSO Ramji Chaubey filed a police complaint that he overheard a group of people saying Chaturvedi would be cut to pieces if he testified in court against Vyapam accused. 
 
 On May 5, 2015, a special court in Gwalior had directed the state government to provide lifetime security to Chaturvedi after taking into consideration mysterious deaths of people linked to scam. The whistle-blower claimed to have survived three attacks on his life, including an abduction bid. He was once thrashed near Dal Bazar area in Gwalior even as his PSO looked on.
 
 In the last two years, he was summoned by court several times. He went, but refused to give a statement citing threats to his life. Gwalior court had also ordered the state government to conduct a threat assessment and provide him lifetime security. In 2014 when Chaturvedi had approached police for security, he was told either to cough up Rs 50,000 as protection money or stay confined to his home. Since then more than 200 PSOs have been replaced.
 
 
