MUMBAI: Virtually putting an end to a legal battle that began three years ago against delayed possession of a pricey residential property here, flat purchasers in the plush 33-storeyed highrise, Windsor Grande, at Oshiwara, are now all finally set to get possession, having arrived at a settlement in their dispute with the developer, Windsor Realty , and its partners, Gopal Narang and Akshay Raheja.Many flat buyers had in 2014 taken the builder to court, seeking possession and compensation for late delivery .They had also, after the occupancy certificate was granted earlier this year, challenged the developer's insistence that they sign a waiver over claims against him.

 Lawyers on both sides, including Vikram Kamath and   for 40-odd flat purchasers who had not given up claims, and senior coun sel Dinyar Madon for the developer, told Justice K R Shriram on Monday that settlement talks, a suggestion by the court last month, resulted in all buyers getting possession in a time-bound manner with claims on either side, being kept alive for some. Close to 20 buyers had signed a no-claims letter and taken possession earlier.
 
 The court was told on September 11 that most of the 50plus flat purchasers, including celebrities likes singers  ,   Singh and  , had arrived at a resolution.   star   had purchased a commercial property on the premises. The project has four wings, including residential and commercial space. The litigants were from wings A and B.
 
 For the business family of Manish Gandhi, who had purchased five flats in 2013, the spectre of their agreements, recently terminated by the builder, remained. The court had posted the matter to September 25 for further hearing as coun sel, Aspi Chinoy , said they had always expressed willingness to pay the balance amount for their flats, and hence were entitled to it. The flats cost the buyers more than Rs 7 crore.
 
 When the matter came up on Monday , the court was told that all buyers, including the Gandhis, were now getting their flats. Minutes of the terms for an interim arrangement were submitted. It detailed how the buyers who had to pay a balance amount could do so in two weeks and they will get possession two weeks after that.
 
 The Gandhis from Andheri Lokhandwala complex, two brothers and their father, had booked five flats in Windsor Grande in 2013. The brothers had booked two each, with each measuring about 4,000 sq ft.They were promised possession in April 2014. The developer said earlier this year that possession was ready and was willing to give delivery once dues were cleared, which he is doing now.
 
