HYDERABAD: Poor patients thronging state-run 1,200-bedded   are crying hoarse over its decade-old CT scan facility not functioning since Sunday.

 Among the many patients affected is S Vaishnavi, a class 10 student and resident of Badichowdi area in Sultanbazar, who has been waiting for two days in the hope that the administration will repair the CT machine, but in vain.
 
 While getting down the staircase at her home on Monday, the young girl fell face down. She fractured her right leg and also sustained a serious spine injury.
 
 “I arrived with my daughter at the hospital on Tuesday, but after her initial treatment in the emergency wing, doctors told us to go to a private hospital located nearby for a CT scan,“ said S Bhavani.Struggling financially, she did not want to take her daughter to a private hospital fearing inflated bills on   covered categories.
 
 “I used to eke out a living as a pushcart vendor at Badichowdi area but the ongoing metro works have left me jobless. Now hawking is not being allowed here. I cannot afford her treatment in private hospital,“ said Bhavani.
 
 Vaishanavi ­ admitted in orthopaedic trauma wing at Room no 129 ­ is not alone. An average of 100 patients with orthopaedic- and neurosurgery related problems have not been able to avail CT scan facility at Gandhi Hospital over the last four days.
 
 When contacted by TOI, Dr   , superintendent, Gandhi Hospital, said, “Some parts of the CT scan machine had problems. We are getting it repaired. It was supposed to be functional from today evening.“ Gandhi doctors were sending specific cases, based on requirements, to Osmania for CT scans.
 
 This is not the first time the CT scan machine at Gandhi hospital has not been working. On September 19, the machine was not functioning and this had led to the death of 26year-old boy L Prakash.“Where has the Rs 100 crore allocated for OGH and   gone? Can't the government install a few more CT machines in these hospitals where thousand of poor patients access health facilities every day,“ asked  , founder, Helping Hand Foundation.
 
