AURANGABAD: As online registration of beneficiaries under the   Act is in progress, educational activists have sought determined efforts from the education department to ensure smooth admission process for academic year 2017-18.

 More than 5,500 seats will be available for admissions under the Act in over 450 schools in the district for the coming academic year as the intake capacity has gone up by around 200 as compared to the last year.
 
 Layeequr   said increase in RTE seats has put an additional responsibility on the education department.
 
 “Even if private schools have registered themselves for RTE admission procedure, it should be ensured that they actually admit beneficiary students. It has been found that schools deny admission on various technical grounds. The authorities concerned, therefore, should take holistic measures, to ensure every seat gets filled,” he said.
 
 Experts have also said active help-desks must be set up for effective admission procedure. “Every year help desks are set up but such measure remains functional on paper only. The   authorities should publicise contact details of the help-desks,” Khan said.
 
  authorities, who have attributed increase in RTE seats to opening of new self-financed schools in the district, said admission process would take place smoothly.
 
 “Around 40 self-financed schools have come up in Aurangabad district this year, taking number of schools eligible for RTE admissions to 475. We will ensure all registered schools follow the procedure,” a senior official said.
 
 Authorities said beneficiary registration drive would be on till the end of February and consolidated data about registration would be available thereafter.
 
 It should be noted that the Aurangabad bench of  , during November last year, had asked education department authorities to submit a report on whether a section of city schools have been violating RTE Act in Aurangabad district.
 
 The   had filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the court, seeking action against a group of city schools that had allegedly started admission process prior to the commencement of academic year.
 
 The applicants had accused the group of city schools for violating Section 12 (1)(c) and Section 15 of the RTE Act. While the Section 12 mandates 25 per cent reservation for children from economically and socially disadvantaged sections, in private unaided schools, the section 15 asks for No denial of admission to eligible students.
 
