

 The brutal attacks on Nigerian students in Noida have set off an alarm across the foreign student community in India. Despite Pune being an expatfriendly city, it has had its share of unfortunate incidents involving foreign nationals in the past, especially students. And the Noida attacks prompted the police to organise a meeting with foreign students to discuss safety issues. Though this is just a preventive measure, the 4400-odd foreign na tionals (registered till October 2016) are more or less on the receiving end of discrimination; be it while renting a place or travelling.
 
 
 Having experienced racism at the hands of landlords, for Karimi*, a student from Kenya, it's now all about looking at the positives. “The attacks have affected us but you can't get bogged down by these incidents. You won't be able to survive at all then,“ says the MCA student, adding, “I faced discrimination when I moved to the city last year. I wanted to rent a flat, but the landlord in Vimannagar refused because of my country of origin. He would've readily rented it out otherwise.“
 
 The student, however, agrees that Pune is warm and welcoming.“As you tend to spend more time in the city , you get to know a lot about it. Pune grows on you gradually. People here are very helpful too,“ he adds. Omer Salim, a student from Sudan, opines that colour based hatred is the result of a lack of education about African countries. “Students here don't know much about the African continent. Perhaps knowledge about the diversity and various communities staying together would help them have a different outlook towards us.“
 
 Another   (name withheld on request), echoing similar sentiments, says, “When landlords find out where you are from, they just refuse to rent out the flat. Even at parties, when peo ple ask me where I am from, I often lie. You never know who you are speaking to and what might happen.“ The Sudanese student used to live in Baner and says she was evicted by her landlord without any prior notice. “Even if they rent out their place to you, they remain suspicious and start asking for the rent halfway through the month. I was late in paying once and was told to vacate the flat immediately .“
 
  
  
 
 Sources suggest that the alleged involvement of some African nationals in the narcotics trade.“How can you generalise this notion and suspect everyone of being involved in the racket?“ asks Leah, a student from Angola. “Locals can also be involved in this activity. Why does no one talk about that?“ she questions.
 An Afghani student, on condition of anonymity , admits, “People associate our country with terrorism, which is disheartening. This is one of the major reasons why we struggle to find accommodation here.“
 
 
 Though many find Pune to be a safe city , the only complaint that students have is about its public transportation. “Most people seem to be helpful when it comes to giving directions. They even ask us to pose for photos with them,“ says Gavher Garayeva, a student from Turkmenistan. But her friend from the same country complains of being hassled by rickshaw drivers many times. “We enjoy hanging out in the city . But the public transport scenario here is very bad. I feel that a city like Pune deserves far better. The rickshaw drivers don't charge according to the meter and demand extra money every time,“ says Gulshat Gumahahova.
 
 
 Each city has its drawbacks and many foreign students are willing to overlook those of Pune, courtesy the quality of education and hospitality. Tina Lovo, a student from China, says, “The quality of 
 education is good and living is cheap too. It is a safe place for women and I can be myself here. The residents are polite and welcoming,” she says. Tazagul Salimowi from Turkmenistan loves the weather here. She says, “Coming from a hot and humid country, Pune’s weather is a blessing. The undulating hills, the greenery, the people; I love everything.”
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
