NAGPUR: The   (NMC) and traffic police take a lot of decisions to improve traffic situation, but make a mockery of implementation. 

 An example of this is outside NMC headquarters, just 500 metres away from the office of deputy commissioner of traffic police in Civil Lines. Some five juice centres have set up mobile kiosks on the road itself. Their mobile vans encroach upon a major portion of the road.
 
 The side walk or footpath is used to seat customers and the road left after parking carts is gobbled up by cars of customers who do not wish to get out in the sun. A large number of the customers are government staff from nearby offices.
 
 Right under the nose of NMC, these vendors cause frequent traffic jam. Some sources even alleged that the encroachment has the support of NMC's anti-encroachment department and the traffic police. Motorists and residents of the locality wonder how NMC can ignore the blatant violation by fruit juice and snacks vendors, who park their carts on the road right in front of its headquarters.
 
 Similar is the case with the narrow lane turning in from a mobile phone showroom near NMC. This lane, the only access road for over a hundred residents of Off Palm Road area, is choked by illegal tea stalls on one side and parked two-wheelers on the other. To make matters worse, a car mechanic has an open air garage right in the middle of this lane. His four-wheeler customers only add to the chaos.
 
 Ironically, this lane has NMC headquarters at one end and the traffic police headquarter at the other.
 
 The situation is no different on  , which too is situated near the DCP's office. The patch between Akashwani Square and Institute of Science Square has many commercial buildings and lawns without parking facilities. As a result, visitors use the road to park their vehicles. Now, opening of two restaurants has only added to the woes.
 
 The two restaurants -   (EIC) and Nanking - have not only started barricading the road in front of their establishments, but also deployed security guards, who ensure the space can be utilized for parking vehicles of their customers only. 
 
 EIC owner DP Singh claimed he is doing so to prevent illegal parking by visitors to two lawns next to his eating joint. He admitted that he has not lodged any complaint against parking nuisance, but he assured to stop blocking the parking. The security guard at Nanking didn't allow the correspondent to speak to the hotel management.
 
 Mayor   expressed concern on the state of affairs, and said she would issue directives to NMC's enforcement department to look into the matter immediately.
 
 DCP (traffic)   too assured to look into the matter. She insisted that no one will be spared if they encroach on roads.
 
