GURUGRAM: The department of town and country planning ( ) cleared seven malls on   of illegal  , sealing around 20 shops, restaurants, store rooms and other facilities in their basements, on Thursday.

 This was the second the anti-encroachment drive carried out by DTCP on MG Road this month. The department claimed that basements of all these malls had been restored for parking. 
 
 “We had carried out the first drive on September 2 when some of the malls were cleared of encroachments. Today (Thursday) we cleared encroachments in rest of the malls. Now, all malls on MG Road have been cleared of encroachments,” district town planner (enforcement)   said, adding that before starting the drive they first checked the status of malls where drive was carried on September 2. He said there was no change in their status, and no new encroachment had come up.
 
 He said people could go and check on their own, and if they found any new encroachments, they could complain to the department. 
 
 “We will take strict action, if any new encroachments come up,” said Sharma. The department will continuously monitor the malls to keep check on any kind of encroachments. 
 
 He said malls on Sohna road are now on the department’s radar. 
 
 The department through the CM Window has received several complaints about encroachments in malls on Sohna road.
 
 The malls had compromised the safety and security of visitors by allowing kiosks, stores, cafeteria and restaurants in basements and common areas.
 
 There are around 30 malls in Gurgaon, of which 24 are found to have violated the norms, and encroached upon the common areas and basements, according to a report published by DTCP in June 2017. Following the publication of the report, DTCP had issued notices to malls, and now finally launched the sealing drive.He said basements, as per the rule, are only for parking, but most of the malls had allowed shops, offices and restaurants risking the life of people, as basements are not designed for heavy movement of people.
 
 Besides, it causes congestion in and around malls, as visitors park their vehicles on service roads. He said the objective of the drive was to restore the parking space in basements.
 
 A representative of one of the malls on MG road, where the drive was carried out, said they followed all rules and regulation. “We fully cooperated with the department, and we will follow all the rules,” he said.
 
 
