JAIPUR: Upholding the order of sub-divisional magistrate, the   on Thursday, has asked the daughter-in-law of one   to vacate her in-laws house after divorce. 

 The single bench of Justice M Rafique upheld the order of SDM after the daughter-in-law approached the   in appeal against the SDM order which was later upheld by the district magistrate to vacate the in-laws house within a month of the order. 
 
 Anoop Pareek , counsel for the father-in-law Suresh Saxena said, his daughter-in-law has been divorced from his son under a mutual agreement but she has been refusing to vacate his house. The daughter-in-law, meanwhile, had approached the high court claiming that she had agreed for mutual divorce under duress. The respondent said he and his wife are being harassed by the daughter-in-law while his son is living abroad. 
 
 Counsel informed the court that the father-in-law is living in the house he had self-acquired. She had no right to be there after divorce.
 
 ‘Conviction no ground to disqualify from job’: Rajasthan High Court ruled that mere conviction in a criminal case is not sufficient ground for a person from disqualifying in appointment for a government job.
 
 The single bench of Justice Ajay Rastogi’s order on a petition by   and others who had qualified for the post of police constable but denied them appointment on the ground of concealment of criminal cases against him.
 
 Pradeep Kalvania, counsel for the petitioner, said, the petitioners had undergone the selection process for police constables and placed in the select list in their respective vertical category for the post of constable in their district butappointment was withheld without communicating any reasons.
 
 Under the Right to Information Act, they were informed that, at the stage of police verification, it was found that criminal cases (s) were registered against them and this material information was not disclosed while applying for the job. 
 
 The court said in a case which is of trivial nature, although conviction has been recorded at a young age or any petty offence even if it would not have been disclosed, would not have rendered him unfit for the post in question. The court further said discretion has to be exercised judiciously by the authority ignoring such suppression of facts or false information by condoning the lapse. “There cannot be any straight jacket formula and each case has to be looked into on the facts and circumstances of the case and the impact of suppression of act or concealment of information on fitness to the post and the kind of job one has to discharge while in public employment.” 
 
