NEW DELHI: The last   of the   derailed on Thursday morning after the train entered Platform 15 of the New Delhi railway station. 

 This is the third such incident in the capital in a week. Railways officials said that the train had stopped at the platform when the last coach, which is the power car, went off the track. No one was injured in the incident that took place at 6.02am. 
 
 A similar accident had happened on September 9 when the engine of   had derailed at the New Delhi Railway station while going towards the washing yard. Another incident was reported on September 7 when two coaches of the   express derailed as the train was crossing the Minto bridge.
 
 “In Thursday’s incident, the last trolley of the power car of 12926 Jammu-New Delhi Rajdhani express derailed after it entered Platform 15 of the New Delhi railway station. The train had reached the platform and all the passengers got off safely,” said the   spokesperson.
 
 The incident has happened at a time when several trains are being diverted and cancelled by the Northern Railway to carry out maintenance and repair work on the tracks. At least 27 trains have been cancelled or diverted for the next four days. Sources said maintenance work was happening on the track and some repair was carried out the night before the mishap as well. 
 
 “An old weld gave way due to the weight of the power car. Maintenance work on the track at Platform 15 was still on, while it had been completed for Platform 16,” said a source.
 
 According to the railway officials, close to 17 trains will be cancelled because of the repair work. 
 
 The accident took place on a day when the country entered a new chapter in the history of Indian Railways by laying the foundation stone for the first bullet train project. 
 
 “Work had been ongoing for a few days and will continue for the next three or four days, which will lead to cancellations and diversions of certain trains. Passengers are advised to keep a check on their train status,” said an official.
 
 
