NAGPUR: One of the accused in the electrocution of Khapa tigress and two sambars surrendered before the range forest officer (RFO) on Monday afternoon. The main accused is still at large. Investigation officer & assistant conservator of forests (ACF) RS Meshram claimed forest officials arrested the accused Devidas Boriwar.

 When TOI called up Meshram at 3pm, he said Boriwar has been arrested. However, in the official papers his arrest is shown at 5pm and medical examination shown conducted at 5.30pm.
 
 According to sources, former district president of   from   had negotiated the surrender with Khapa forest officials on the condition that both the accused —   and Boriwar should not be arrested and let off by somehow not holding them responsible for tigress and sambars deaths.
 
 Dhote told TOI that he knew both the accused as they were   workers and hail from Badegaon area and had sought my help in the matter. “But I have absolutely no role to play in their surrender nor any action. As offence has been registered, let law take its own course,” he said.
 
 According to information with TOI, on Monday, local BJP leader  , who owns a saw mill in Khapa, brought Boriwar to range office around 2pm where his statements were recorded. The main accused Savvalakhe, who is believed to be Khapa itself, did not surrender. Anticipatory bail application of both, Boriwar and Savvalakhe, has already been rejected on February 2 by district & additional sessions judge OP Jaiswal.
 
 In his confession statement, Boriwar, who worked in Savvalakhe’s contract farm, admitted that tigress and two sambars were electrocuted around 2am on January 13 when he was watering his fields.
 
 Live electric current was drawn to the fence from a 11kv line passing through the farm. Around 2am, when the line suddenly tripped, Boriwar went to investigate. He was shocked to see a tigress and two sambars lying dead.
 
 Boriwar then informed Savvalakhe, who immediately brought a tractor and dragged the tigress in a corner of a farm and dumped it into a pit. One sambar’s head was chopped and also dumped in a pit and the other sambar was dumped on the road to divert attention. He said when forest officials arrived at the scene they fled.
 
 ACF Meshram said Boriwar will be produced in Saoner court on Tuesday. He has been remanded to custody with Khapa police. 
 
