It was among the first of US President Donald Trump’s executive orders and it has already single-handedly created the largest public protests since his own election win. On January 27, Trump’s controversial ‘ban on travellers from seven Muslim countries from entering the US’ has unleashed chaos, fear and sparked outrage. The order suspends the arrival of all refugees for at least 120 days (Syrian refugees indefinitely) and bars citizens from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan,   and Yemen for 90 days, spelling out dire consequences for many. The ripple effect saw protestors swarm streets, university campuses and airports, taking whatever platform they could find to vent their ire over it, financial markets took a spill and more...

 
  
  
 Faced with protests, Trump has said that the travel curbs were not a Muslim ban. “To be clear, this is not a Muslim ban. This is not about religion — this is about terror and keeping our country safe,” he said. Nonetheless, it was received with a defiant backlash from all over the world. Hundreds took to the streets and raised slogans not just in US cities, but also in Britain. Central London was said to have been brought to a halt as 10,000 people marched on   demanding   cancel Trump’s state visit. Stars at the recent Screen Actors Guild Awards delivered several speeches against the   and a major coffee chain announced it plans to hire 10,000 refugees around the world over the next five years. 
 
 
 The executive order’s implementation disrupted travel plans across the globe. Tourists, students, immigrants and those returning from vacations were all detained at airports after arriving in the US. Many were kept in custody overnight and questioned. The suspension also blocked visas for interpreters who risked their lives to help American troops. Oscar-winning Iranian filmmaker Asghar Farhadi whose film The Salesman is nominated for an Oscar in the best foreign-language film category, said he will not attend the Oscars in protest. 
 
 Sally Yates, the acting attorney general of the United States has been fired by Trump over her alleged defiance of the executive order. She is said to have ordered the Justice Department not to defend the executive order in court and said she did not believe it to be lawful. Trump accused her of betrayal and insubordination.
 
 
 
 
 Former President Barack Obama has also criticised Trump’s executive order. His spokesman Kevin Lewis said in a statement, that he “fundamentally disagrees” with the notion of discriminating against individuals because of their faith or religion. Expressing solidarity with those protesting, this is the first time Obama has criticised Trump. It breaks a long-standing, unwritten rule that former presidents will refrain from criticising the current White House occupant.
 
 
  
  
 Top end universities responded to the ban.   said it would protect foreign and Muslim students and spoke of ‘escalating anxiety’ on campus. President Drew Faust wrote, “We must not and will not conflate people of a venerable faith with people predisposed to acts of terrorism and violence.” University of Michigan has refused to disclose students’ immigration information. 
 
 
 A few US cities are resisting the order and have said they will welcome refugees. Mayor John Cranley of Cincinnati has announced it will be a ‘sanctuary city’. “We have put the whole world on notice that we intend to live up to the Statue of Liberty ideals,” he said. Seattle is also set to be a ‘welcoming’ city. Sanctuary cities are places that offer safe shelter for undocumented immigrants who might otherwise be deported by immigration officials. There are over 140 sanctuary jurisdictions across the US. Trump has reportedly come down on these sanctuary cities, by signing an order that would withhold federal grant money to them. 
 
 
 
 Civil liberties advocates have challenged the order. Washington state’s attorney general has declared that he plans to sue Donald Trump over his temporary ban on immigration, making it the first state to announce a legal action against the Trump administration over one of its policies. “If successful it would have the effect of invalidating the president’s unlawful action nationwide,” said Attorney General Bob Ferguson. “We are a country based on the rule of law, and in a courtroom it is not the loudest voice that prevails, it’s the Constitution. At the end of the day, either you’re abiding by the Constitution or you are not. And in our view, the president is not adhering to the Constitution when it comes to this executive action,” he added. A number of U.S. diplomats have also prepared a memo criticising the order.
 
 
 Several American businesses are said to be against Trump’s anti-immigration policies, saying they could damage competitiveness by limiting access to the best employees. This has been especially seen in  , where chiefs of tech firms blasted the policy. “This is not a policy we support,” Goldman Sachs chief executive Lloyd Blankfein told employees in a recorded voice mail. 
 
 
  
  
 Images and videos of protests and detainees at major airports have gone viral on social media. Banners saying ‘This is the land of the free’ and welcome chants have greeted travellers. 
 
 
 A California state senator is calling on the White House to release documents related to   Trump’s immigration. An investigation had found that she lacked proper work visas when she was employed as a model after she arrived in the US from Slovenia.
 
 
 
