Science-fiction has always been a celebrated genre, with iconic movies like The   and   having firmly fixed its place in cinema. While outlandish, futuristic ideas used to rule the roost in this genre, recent times have brought on-screen scenarios that are no longer completely fictional. With modern scientific advances, technology has become a nearly limitless player in our lives. Resultantly, Artificial Intelligence, cloning and robots have now begun to feature in movies and TV shows almost as notably as actual humans...

 
 
 The much-hyped sequel for Rajnikanth’s Enthiran is slated for release in early 2018, in Tamil, Telugu and Hindi. Although the story is as yet unknown, there is no doubt that the famed Chitti robot from the first movie will play a similarly significant role in 2.0, establishing machines as possible protagonists on Indian screens as well.
 
 
 
 This anthology television show wowed viewers with its ability to present a satirical yet honest take on contemporary society and its digital advancements, acting as a dark-humoured ‘mirror’ of the modern world. However, with episodes like Be Right Back and White Christmas, this series upped the ante. Telling haunting tales of extracted, ‘cookie’ consciousness and clones created to replace the dead, Black Mirror aptly reflects human obsession with virtual realities.
 
 
 
 Ex Machina is another sci-fi movie that explores the relationship between actual human beings and artificially intelligent bots. Although told mostly through the lens of Caleb (a programmer who is tasked with assessing an android’s human qualities), the title and the ending of this movie lead audiences to believe that the story was more about the AI computer (Ava) herself, hinting that technology is playing a bigger role in our lives than previously anticipated.
 
 
 
 Adapted from two previous movies released in 1973 and 1976, this science-fiction thriller gives audiences a glimpse into an alarming alternative reality where every human desire can be indulged, with no consequences. Set in a Western-themed amusement park inhabited by compliant automatons, Westworld explores a futuristic world where technology paves the way for complete human gratification.
 
 
 
 Deemed a dystopian fantasy-thriller, Transcendence stunned audiences with its unique plot-line, where the protagonist loses his physical body only to have his consciousness uploaded on to a quantum computer. Elements of drama and romance raise the movie’s appeal, but the anti-technology activists shown in it are what make it particularly memorable. Transcendence presents a frightening picture of the possible repercussions of technology being allowed to run rampant.
 
 
 
 Revolving around the story of an introverted and lonely letter writer, Her was an unconventional movie that broke all precedented norms about human-AI relations. Although set in a futuristic world, the story of   falling in love with an artifically intelligent operating system is startlingly possible in real life (seeing how the movie was inspired by 
 existing technology), making Theodore’s tale so much more touching.
 
 
 
 Although scientific advancement does not play a pivotal role in them, here are a few movies whose stories would not move forward if not for the technology in their plots:
 
  A laugh-riot, Why Him? is an American movie that follows the story of a protective father meeting his daughter’s ludicrous boyfriend, Laird. Although the actors effortlessly carry the movie on their shoulders, the hilarity added by Laird’s AI house control system goes a long way in making this a definite comedy.
 
 Though it was released over a decade ago, The Prestige has continued to remain a beloved classic because of its stirring account of a bitter battle between two fellow magicians. The stunning revelation at the end — of Nikola Tesla’s machine and its cloning capabilities — only add to the film’s aura and charm.
 
 - Sanjana Sindhe
 
