GURUGRAM: Over 8,000 workers, most from across Gurgaon and Rewari, held a rally on Thursday to protest against the verdict in the 2012 Maruti violence case. The protesters claimed the convicts were falsely implicated in the case and demanded a   into the violence as well as re-hiring of all the   who were sacked after the unrest.

 The protest march began at 3.15 pm when nearly 3,000 workers from Maruti Suzuki’s Manesar plant walked around5km from the factory gate to Tau Devi Lal Park, shouting slogans against the district court’s judgment. At the park, they were joined by as many as 5,000 workers from 80 unions and over 200 factories from across Gurgaon, Rewari, Alwar, Faridabad and Noida.
 
 The protesters held a two-hour meeting at the park, where they reiterated their demand for a judicial inquiry into the unrest. They alleged the convicted workers were picked up by the police from their houses on the basis of the list submitted by the management. They also claimed the convicts were assaulted and made to sign on blank papers, which were later submitted in the court as their confession.
 
 “These convicts are innocent and we will appeal against the district court’s judgment in the Punjab and Haryana high court. We will request the court to conduct a judicial inquiry as well so that the truth is revealed. We want all the 13 workers convicted of murder in the case to be released,” said Kuldeep Janghu, general secretary, Maruti Suzuki Workers Union.
 
 The workers also demanded re-hiring of the 546 workers whose services were terminated by the Maruti management, following the violence. “They terminated 546 workers, despite the special investigating team naming only 214 of them in its report. Now, even the sessions court has acquitted 117 of those who were implicated in the case. The company should now take them back,” said Khushi Ram, head of the union’s provisional working committee.
 
 To tackle any untoward incident, as many as 500 policemen and two battalions of reserve forces were deployed in the area.
 
 
