COIMBATORE: The National Institute of   Research (Nimr), a research institution of the Indian Council of Medical Research (Icmr), is planning to set up a   on the   (CMC) campus. A three-member team from Icmr will survey CMC premises on Wednesday to assess the feasibility of the project here.

  is the second State where Nimr is planning to set up a field research station after  , senior health department officials said.
 
 CMC was selected in the preliminary stage, sources said. “Though Nimr is setting up the institute, the Centre has proposed a Centre of Excellence for Climate Change and Vector-Borne Diseases (VBD), including dengue and zika” said director of public health, P Kulandaisamy. “Malaria is close to elimination, with cases coming only from five districts in the State,” he said.
 
 Officials say Coimbatore was chosen as a probable location for the centre because the western region does not yet have a vector-borne disease research centre. “Icmr already has a Centre for Research in Medical Entomology (Crme) in Madurai, a Vector Control Research Centre (Vcrc) in Pondicherry, Institute of Vector Control and Zoonoses in Hosur and National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai,” said Kulandaisamy.
 
 If the visiting team gives the go-ahead for the centre, CMC will give space for the research station and lab, while the staff will be appointed by Nimr, said CMC dean B Ashokan.
 
 The Centre’s main objectives will be to assess the causes, extent and impact of climate change on vector-borne diseases like dengue, malaria and zika. “They will be studying the types of mosquitoes that cause fever, each species’ growing resistance to different pesticides and insecticides, changing and evolving patterns of breeding and different patterns of an outbreak. They will also attain analytical and mapping skills to study the spread of a disease,” said Kulandaisamy.
 
 “Only if we understand the pattern of an outbreak, breeding or spread of a disease, can we find a way to break it. With us government officials always on fire-fighting mode, these research institutions without pressure can carefully study and understand the dynamics of vector-borne disease control,” he said. 
 
 Infectious diseases experts too say such research stations are critical to adopt an indigenous approach to vector-borne diseases. “Our local conditions are very different from that off another city, State or country. So, we need such institutions to come out with local research findings and recommendations, which help us find the best way to deal with vectors and diseases caused by them,” said Chennai-based infectious diseases expert and internal medicine consultant, Dr V Ramasubramanian. “But their research has to percolate to private institutions and hospitals too,” he added.
 
 
