MADURAI: Madurai corporation, Usilampatti municipality, Vadipatti town panchayat and 320 hamlets in the district have been marked as critical areas under the prevailing drought situation. However, there was enough water in the   dam to meet the drinking water needs of the city for the next few weeks, said district collector K Veera Raghava Rao.

 Addressing the   grievance meet at the district collectorate on Friday, he said that the recent rain had eased the situation a little and there was hope that the city would tide over the  . He said that 70 tanks had been chosen in the district under the scheme to renovate and desilt water bodies in the state. Farmers should come together to form committees to supervise and carry on the work in coordination with the PWD officials. Tanks such as Attukulam, Kalappanpatti, Kalkulam, Kattathevanpatti, Ponnamangalam, Thummakundu, Nilayur, Valayapatti, Madakulam, Karseri and Sakkudi in the   division of PWD are to be taken up for renovation at a cost of Rs 10 lakh. Bigger tanks would be taken up in the next financial year.
 
 Tamil Nadu Farmers Association district president K Devaraj said that the collector’s announcement that they could take five loads of silt each for a hectare of land was unacceptable. Instead, they sought 25 loads per hectare. When the collector said that they should use man power to desilt the tanks this too was opposed by the farmers. They said that man power was not available and JCB machines had to be deployed for the work. The collector said a decision would be taken after consultations. There were 2.5 lakh cattle which had to be protected from the drought and steps must be taken to supply fodder at a subsidised cost to farmers through fodder sales centres. Cultivation of fodder would also be given a subsidy, he said.
 
 The collector also sought the help of the farmers to get rid of prosopis juliflora plants, stating that only 20 per cent of the invasive species on government land had to be cleared while 80 per cent on private lands was yet to be tackled.
 
 
