Times News Network

 Ludhiana: In a major breakthrough, the Special Task Force (STF) on late Wednesday night arrested two wanted peddlers, who were once deported to India from the US for peddling drugs and were current accomplices of the infamous kingpin of drug peddling racket Ranjeet Singh alias Raja Kandola.
 
 The STF team also found 5 kg heroin, worth Rs 5 crore in the international market, from the duo, identified as Palwinderjeet Singh Sidhu, 43, and Ravinder Singh, 41, of Gorayan, Jalandhar.
 
 They were arrested from Moti Nagar area in Ludhiana.
 
 According to police, they worked for Raja Kandola, who gave them orders sitting in Kapurthala jail over mobile phone. Importantly, the accused would get contrabands from Pakistan and would sell it further among customers across Punjab.
 
 STF in-charge Harbans Singh said police got a tip-off that the duo was coming from Moti Nagar side to supply heroin to their customers in a white Swift car. The police had established a checkpoint. On frisking, the police found 2.5kg heroin from each which they had hidden in special belts, made up of cloth.
 
 Importantly, both accused were international drug peddlers who were convicted in the US for drug peddling.
 
 Palwainderjeet had gone to the US in 1997 and was a truck driver there. In 2009, he was arrested with 2kg cocaine. Thereafter he was awarded four years of imprisonment. After coming out of jail, he was deported to India.
 
 Ravinder Singh had gone to the US in 1994 and drove a truck for a living. In 2003 he was held with 14 kg marijuana drug, but was bailed out in a week. Following this in same year, he was held with 19kg cocaine and was awarded five years of imprisonment. After coming out of jail in 2008, he was also deported to India.
 
 After coming to India, these two friends continued the drug trade. In the USA, they worked for Raja Kandola, but they had never met him. Later in 2012, the duo met Raja Kandola in Kapurthala jail.
 
 STF in-charge also shared that the duo was in constant touch with Raja Kandola and a week ago, they had talked to him over the phone.
 
 The accused were presented before the court on Thursday and were sent on 3-day police remand. The police are trying to reach their customers and crack their connections with Pakistan drug peddlers.
 
 
