NAGPUR: The upcoming  , with its capacity to seat 2000 persons, hopes to end the constant need for a decent auditorium in the city. Under construction for past four years, it is now in final stages. Located at Reshimbagh, adjacent to the  , the project has been executed by NMC and may take two more months to get operational. “We are looking to finalize a date for its opening,” says former mayor  , the force behind this project.

 The blue and orange facade has wood cladding and there are 32 massive stairs with risers in multi colour, multi-design tiles leading up to the podium. The two small amphi theatres on both sides of the podium offer space to groups for impromptu activities. “We hope to create some theme restaurants here,” says Datke. The structure is also perhaps the only one of its kind that will run on solar panels generating 205 kilowatts power. “This will be sufficient if the auditorium consumes it continuously for 90 days,” he says.
 
 The structure adopts Nagpur orange as its theme with patterns of orange leaves carved in the ceiling where lights are embedded. The same pattern is found on the especially fabricated beams put up to support the pillars. “We have tried to make an architectural statement by using a number of colours and giving the place a vibrant hue,” says architect   who has designed it.
 
 The auditorium has a massive 250 sq metre stage with depth of 16 metres and width of 20 metres. “The stage lights are on the lines of those in NCPA in Mumbai. The acoustics within the theatre have been done by  , a renowned sound consultant from Pune, who has used high end monitors and speakers,” informs  , an architect from Mokha’s team who is supervising the work. 
 
 The unique feature of the auditorium is that its capacity can be regulated as per requirement. “There are special wooden partitions imported from Malaysia that are manually operated and can be pulled across to create seating capacity of 500, 1000, 1500 0r 2000 persons,” informs Shakil Niazi, sub-divisional engineer of NMC.
 
 The auditorium is air-conditioned but the lobby has air cooling. “Another unique feature is the 24ft diameter fan installed on the ceiling for churning air,” says Bhisikar. All three levels have toilets. Multi-level parking facilities on both sides of the building will provide ample parking space.
 
 Though the tariff for hiring is yet to be finalized, Datke says use of solar energy will help in keeping rentals low. “We are looking at outsourcing maintenance of the place to a professional agency through a tender process,” Datke says adding that the theme restaurants being planned at the venue will also help raise revenue to run the place. “It has been constructed only to encourage cultural activities, exhibitions and conferences and will not be given for weddings or similar functions,” says Datke.
 
 Not worrying about its location in east Nagpur or the fact that the venue may remain underutilized due to this, Datke says the city has become used to substandard facilities for long and such an auditorium will actually encourage higher grade performances and events to happen. “It’s barely 3km from Sitabuldi, that is central enough,” he quips. 
 
