PATNA: At least seven patients were reported to have died at the Patna Medical College and Hospital ( ) since Tuesday night when junior doctors went on a strike, which they described as “boycotting work”.
 
  The medicos are pressing for action against police officials who cane-charged them and left some of them injured on Monday. They threatened on Wednesday evening to extend the stir indefinitely if their demands are not met.
  
  However, PMCH superintendent   said, “We have no record of death due to the ongoing strike by junior doctors, but I am told that some deaths have occurred.”
  
  State health Minister Tej Pratap Yadav, on being asked by CM   to intervene, held an emergency meeting with officials of his department and directed them to resolve the crisis at the earliest.
  
  Junior Doctors’ Association president Dr   Yadav claimed at least 700 medicos of six government-run medical colleges of the state are “boycotting work”. “It is not a strike,” he insisted, apparently because such strikes hitting life-saving services have angered the Patna high court in the past.
  
  Dr Vinay alleged police resorted to lathicharge during the counselling for PG admissions. “Some doctors peacefully raised few objections with regard to the counselling. However, police lathicharged them and many doctors were injured. Four medicos were arrested under non-bailable sections,” he said and added the boycott would continue till FIRs against the medicos were withdrawn and action was taken against the policemen concerned.
  
  PMCH superintendent Dr Prasad claimed the boycott did not hamper routine work. “I have requisitioned 50 additional doctors. Sixteen of them joined today,” he told TOI and added senior resident doctors and faculty members were taking care of the patients.
  
  According to a PMCH official, 1,589 patients came to   in the hospital on Wednesday as against usual 2000 and odd. The number may dip further if the strike continues, he feared.
  
  The PMCH authorities also claimed that none of the scheduled surgeries was postponed. “We performed 47 major surgeries and 11 minor ones on Wednesday. One surgery was postponed as the patient was not fasting,” said Dr Vijay Gupta, HoD of anesthesia department.
  
  The claim of the authorities notwithstanding, few attendants could be seen shifting their patients out of PMCH.
  
  "We are the real victims of the strike, because there is no doctor to attend on our patients," said Mahesh Kushwaha of Vaishali district, who came to PMCH two days ago for his wife's treatment.
  
  Satender Yadav, a parent worried over his son's health, rued those who can't afford treatment outside have been left in the lurch.
