In order to garner support and spread awareness about the   community, a flash mob was held at a mall in Noida on Sunday. Visitors at the mall were caught by surprise when around 20-25 members of Harmless Hugs, a group of LGBTQs, broke into an impromptu jig, dancing to hit   and English tracks. The choreography was set by Ronica Jacob, who, along with her Planets dance academy students, collaborated with the volunteers of Impulse New Delhi, an NGO working for LGBTQ rights.

 
  
  Sharing a journey
 
 
   , admin, Harmless Hugs, said, "Flash mob is the best way to get youngsters' attention. Through this, we wanted to convey to everyone that LGBTQ community is also part of the same society. Humein apne gharon mein ghut ghut ke rehna padta hai. Jaise hain waise nahi reh sakte. This is our small effort to sensitize people about this community."
 
 
  
  
 
  The group has been practicing on Sundays for the past four months and was excited to perform for the visitors at the mall. Kriti, a member of the flash mob, said, "I am also a part of LGBTQ community and wanted to do something to create awareness regarding our rights. It was so much fun performing in front of so many people. All the members who performed today are either working or studying. But despite a busy schedule, we would practice on Sundays."
 
 
  
  Rainbow of love
 
 
  Ronica shared, "I've been long associated with Harmless Hugs and the community. What better than to share your journey with other members of the same family? This is our second collaboration with them and I would love to be associated with them in the coming years."
 
 
  
  Dance for pride
 
 
  Megha Singh, a shopper at the mall, said, "It was a pleasant surprise to see people dancing all of a sudden and that too for this cause. Often, people neglect the LGBTQ community and even make fun of them. This is a great way to make people aware of the rights of the community and bring them into the mainstream. I just loved the performance and the energy with which they were dancing."
 
 
 
