In a big setback to the state government, the   on Thursday passed an interim order that the Rs 200 price cap (excluding taxes) on cinema tickets mentioned in the May 2, 2017, notification would not be applicable on Saturdays, Sundays, and state and general holidays.

 Vacation Judge Justice PS Dinesh Kumar passed the order after hearing the petitioners and the state government. The court asked the state government to file objections within four weeks to the petition filed by FICC Multiplexes Association of India.
 
 Senior advocate Udaya Holla, appearing on behalf of the petitioners, argued that the state government has n power to fix a price and it is the deputy commissioner who can exercise an power under the Karnataka Cinema Regulation Act. He also said the cap is uniformly applied in all tiers of cities in the state, including Bengaluru, while expressing surprise as to how such a club bing can be done.
 
 However, Additional Advocate General AG Shivanna, appearing on behalf of the state government, contended that the petitioner association itself had agreed r to such a cap in its letter of March 23,2017.IHe asserted that under the scheme of the Karnataka Cinema Regulation Act as well as under Article 162 of the Constitution, the state government can exercise such powers. At this juncture, Udaya Holla drew the court's attention to a set of conditions a contained in the letter based on which the petitioner association accepted the cap. The conditions included excluding Saturdays, Sundays and state holidays from the purview of the cap and also non-inclusion of certain category of halls that use high-end equipment. When the court queried as to why the condition was not considered while issuing the notification, the AAG submitted that the government had rejected it.
 
 The petitioners claimed that the notification is discriminatory as other similar modes of entertainments (visual) such as television and internet-based websites applications like YouTube,  , Hotstar ,Amazon Prime, etc are not subject to any control, especially with regard to price.
 
 According to the petitioner, the question involved is discretionary spending and it is wholly arbitrary and discriminatory to impose a cap restricting the admission prices to cinemas, when the other media are not regulated.
 
