KANNUR: The home shop concept launched by the   is fast turning out to be a huge success and in the last one year, it has crossed a turnover of Rs 2.75 crore in the district thus providing employment to around 300 women.

 “We maintain a certain quality in whatever products we give and it has increased our customer base over a period of time,” said Padmanabhan K, a management team coordinator of the project, which was launched in December 2015.
 
 The evolution of the home shop and its success is also the story of the success of the community development societies (CDS) that have transformed into micro-entrepreneurship ventures, he said. The venture, which began over a year with the training of five youths from Chapparappadavu in   as management team, is now a major business venture, he said.
 
 The management team procures the goods from the entrepreneurs and supplies it to the home shoppers who market it directly in the local households.
 
 “We have a brand identity and our procurement system is also very much effective so that there is freshness in everything,” he said.
 
 Since the home itself the shop for the home shoppers, there is no overhead expenses and the commission of 20 percent they get is their income, said Rajesh N, former assistant mission coordinator, who took a major role in developing the network.
 
 Beginning in Thaliparamba Block with 40 women, it has been expanded to Payyannur, Kalliassery and Irikoor blocks, with nearly 300 women, which is a proof of its acceptance, according to   officials.
 
 “Our aim is to have at least three home shops in every ward and take the products to every household, so that more women can be involved in it and their financial empowerment can be ensured,” he said. On an average one home shopper gets Rs 5000 to 15000 a month that too doing part time work, according to the  . This has also attracted more groups into farming and as of now 7708 Kudumbashree groups are involved in it, which also ensures the people are getting fresh vegetable without pesticide, said the officials.
 
 
