KHARAGPUR: Gangster   was shot by   on Wednesday in the plush Trinamool party office he built for his councillor wife Pooja in Kharagpur’s New Settlement colony.   SP Bharati Ghosh said Naidu, who was shot in the neck, died in a   in the evening.

 The killers arrived in a white Maruti Omni, two of them stepped inside the hall leading to an ante-chamber, sprayed bullets at Naidu and his aides and drove away.
 
 It is ironic that the shooting took place in Kharagpur municipality’s ward 18, which elected Pooja and helped Naidu drive a hard bargain to forge links with the ruling Trinamool, dumping BJP. It is this seat — and four others won by BJP in the 2015 municipal polls — which gave Trinamool the numbers to form the Kharagpur municipal board. Pooja, incidentally, was in the municipality building during the shooting. She, however, could not be contacted.
 
 Naidu apart, his associate Dharma Rao, too, died in the same nursing home, while three others are undergoing treatment after sustaining bullet wounds. Midnapore Medical College Hospital doctors referred all five injured to SSKM Hospital. From there, Naidu and Rao were transferred to a private nursing home off EM Bypass.
 
 Around 2.45pm, when Naidu was seated in an ante-chamber of the office with his associates, four masked men arrived in a car. Three of them, armed with guns, stepped up to the building. While one of them opened fire from the gate to the one-storey office building, the other two barged in, firing indiscriminately. The first bullets struck Rao and Kharagpur trader C Srinu in their stomach and thighs. The masked duo then walked in through a large hall and entered the ante-chamber. The gunmen fired at Naidu, who was shot in the neck, and his aides B Gobinda Rao and N Gobinda Rao, then ran out and fled in the waiting car. 
 
 Naidu built his empire between 2001 and 2010, taking advantage of rival Rambabu’s confinement behind bars. In 2011, a year after Rambabu’s release on bail, Naidu was put behind bars for an alleged attempt on Rambabu’s life. Though he got bail, he was re-arrested in April 2015 for allegedly threatening voters during the Kharagpur municipal polls. He was released after his wife defected to Trinamool from BJP.
 
 
