PANAJI: A day after speculations of political uncertainty broke out over Congress’ proposed move to nominate GFP treasurer Suraj Lotlikar for the Rajya Sabha poll, the   state president Vinay Tendulkar said there is no threat to the BJP-led government and that it would complete its full tenure.

 This was after the Congress’ high command on Monday did not favour to make GFP supremo and TCP minister   the CM candidate in case he withdraws support to the government, sources said.
 
 Sources said that former St Cruz MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate had lobbied hard for support from the   leadership to topple the BJP-led government and install a new government. Monserrate camp was confident on Saturday that their plan would go through, sources said
 
 The Congress on Sunday shortlisted Lotlikar as their candidate for the July 21 Rajya Sabha polls, prompting GFP leader and town and country planning (TCP) minister Vijai Sardesai to state that he was not part of any toppling game.
 
 Tendulkar told TOI that Congress should first put its house in order before trying to topple the BJP government. “Rumours are being spread by the Congress; there is no truth in it [political instability]. BJP will complete its full tenure,” said Tendulkar, who is the BJP’s candidate for the lone Rajya Sabha seat from the state.
 
 BJP sources said that for the next five years the Congress will only make plans to topple the BJP-led Manohar Parrikar government, but will never succeed. Sources, on Sunday, had said that Congress with the help of GFP wanted to topple the government on the day of the Rajya Sabha election.
 
 Reacting to the statement of newly appointed Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) president and Rajya Sabha member   that the BJP government will fall on its own, Tendulkar said BJP will not make any mistakes in the five-year tenure and that the government will remain stable.
 
 Tendulkar also took a dig at Naik saying there were hardly any MLAs present at the Congress house when he took over charge as GPCC president. Tendulkar said, “Three to four Congress MLAs are very unhappy with the way the party is functioning and soon something will happen in the party.”
 
