NAGPUR: The Dinkar Zoting Commission, probing into allegations against former revenue minister Eknath Khadse, concluded its proceedings on Wednesday, and is expected to submit its report soon to the  

 After spate of allegations by the opposition that a plot of land of MIDC in Pune located at Bhosari was illegally transferred in his wife’s name in a clear case of conflict of interest by the minister who had exercised his quasi-judicial powers to clear the land transfer, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis constituted the probe panel under Zoting on June 23 last year.
 
 On last day, senior counsel  , representing senior BJP leader, submitted written reply to MIDC counsel Chandrashekhar Jaltare. He stated that the Indian   was applicable to the commission and it can’t recommend  . He was assisted by Amol Patil. Khadse had already denied the allegations and claimed that the plot was never in possession of MIDC.
 
 After listening to arguments from both sides, the commission ended its working. After Zoting decided to operate from here, he was provided a ministerial cottage at Ravi Bhavan to use as office along with the required staff. Initially, it was told to complete the probe before September 22, but since the hearings couldn’t be completed, its term was extended till December end. It received third extension till February 15 and fourth one till May 3.
 
 Khadse’s counsels earlier took strong objection over government’s refusal to grant extension to the commission. They argued that MIDC had nothing to do with the deal and shouldn’t be a part of the probe. They also denied allegations that Khadse gained anything or losses were caused to the exchequer because of the deal.
 
 Appearing on MIDC’s behalf, Jaltare and his son Aniruddh strongly countered opposition’s pleadings asserting that commission can’t become powerless, as it’s the fact-finding panel and the provisions of Indian Evidence Act are applicable to it. They stated that there was a   involvement of the minister in the deal even though he had vehemently denied it.
 
