ALIGARH: It was on Kathpula that poet Neeraj's iconic song “Karvan guzar gaya gubar dekhte rahe“ was filmed more than 50 years ago. The movie, “Nai Umar Ki Nai Fasal“, was shot on the AMU campus and acclaimed for its progressive message. The bridge was then made of `kath', wood. Now it's aconcrete structure. The times have changed.

 Kathpula virtually straddles two time zones. “Lack of education, communal polarisation and regressive traditions seem to be the features of one. On the other side   (that includes AMU) is free of these ills,“ says Md Asim   of the university's English department.
 
 Aligarh has a history of communal trouble. Civil Lines residents insist trouble always starts on the other side. “Rarely has Civil Lines been under curfew,“ says  , also an AMU professor.On the other side in the 'Shahr', signs of the communal divide are visible. Shops with signboards Harigarh, not Aligarh, are common. VHP wants the town renamed.Nearly 49% of Aligarh is Muslim, 51% Hindu. The two Aligarhs speak different languages. Most of `Shahr' uses khadi boli, a sprinkling of Braj. In the Civil Lines, it's largely Hindi. We're considered the elite,“ says Ayesha Muneer Rasheed, associate professor of English, AMU, and is from Kolkata. The composition of the faculty could explain why  's many residents believe they're deprived. Over two-thirds are from outside.
 
 “Losing opportunities results in frustration. They are prejudiced.But we too are to blame. We're insular,“ Siddiqui explains. Another professor claimed the representation of Aligarh Hindus in the faculty is more than local Muslims. Hence the heartburn among the deprived. While students from elsewhere in the country outnumber locals in many departments, in courses such as management, engineering and medicine, the difference is glaring.For every 20 outsiders here, there's just one local. “It's not that people across the bridge aren't studying.But they haven't come out of their orthodoxy,“ says Pratibha, a research scholar from Aligarh.
 
