Ahmedabad: ‘Jab miya-biwi razi to kya karega qazi?’ goes the saying. Gujarat high court has applied this principle to separation too, especially in a matter involving   where the husband and wife accept separation by mutual consent, but the family court is reluctant to issue a divorce decree.

 By passing an order, the high court has spared separated Muslim couples from the rigmarole of lengthy court proceedings for divorce decrees. The HC directed a family court in the city to accelerate proceedings and finalize the application for a divorce decree in eight weeks’ time.
 
 In this case, the marriage of Rashida Rassiwala from Ahmedabad and Abbas Latiwala from Dholka was solemnized in 2002. After matrimonial issues, they lived separately for the last six years. In December 2015, they finally got a divorce by the customary practice, in which the husband uttered ‘talaq’ thrice to his wife. The woman accepted the divorce. The man then remarried.
 
 They approached the family court to obtain the divorce decree last year and the parties admitted that the divorce had taken place. Their lawyer cited Order XII of Rule 6 of the Civil Procedure Code (CPC) in his request for quick proceedings. However, the family court rejected the request for a speedy process and began recording evidence by raising queries over whether the rituals were properly followed after the talaq.
 
 As the family court rejected the request for a speedy judgment, the woman moved the HC. Justice Sonia Gokani quashed the family court’s order on the ground that when the law provides for a quick decision in such cases, the courts ought to have decided it that way.
 
 The HC also observed that in the absence of provisions like section 13B of the Hindu Marriage Act, in which quick proceedings are prescribed for a divorce decree in case of divorce with mutual consent, the benefits of provisions of CPC should be given in customary divorce cases among Muslims.
 
 The woman’s advocate Aliasghar Zabuawala said, “With this judgment, Muslims can also avail of speedy court processes, otherwise they have to wait for years together to get a divorce decree, without which people are handicapped in applying for government documents.”
 
 
