Kolkata: Twenty vessel manufacturers from the state and beyond have shown interest in setting up shops in and around Kolkata to manufacture safe, cost-effective boats (40 and 60-seaters) to replace 12,000 bhutbhutis (mechanized country boats) which are unsafe and often lead to tragic incidents. 

 Bengal transport minister Suvendu Adhikari on Monday unveiled the standardised model of the boat and handed over the design specifications to these 20 manufacturers after formally inaugurating the Jaladhara scheme for waterways, modelled on the state’s successful Gatidhara scheme for road transportation.
 
 These 20 vessel manufacturers included big names like Mahindra Marines and big boat manufacturers from Kerala and Odisha. “We want these bhutbhutis to be completely replaced by safe boats designed by Shalimar Works, the shipbuilding PSU under the transport department. We will offer a subsidy of Rs 1 lakh to those who will replace their bhutbhutis. We will also request the manufacturers to introduce buy-back scheme of their old boats to provide incentive for the replacement process,” said Adhikari.
 
 A few lakh commuters daily cross rivers including the Hooghly for livelihood. Since there are no formal ferry-services at these places, the commuters depend completely on the bhutbhuti. The boats often take on commuters double or triple their capacity. If they capsize, the tragedy assumes a great proportion. 
 
 The state government recently took note of four such accidents at Kolaghat, Kakdwip, Kalna and Telenipara.
 
 “The river transportation as an alternative to road transportation can take the load off the road to a great extent. But this has been ignored in past five decades. We are serious about safety and security of the inland waterways. Jetties are being repaired, set up newly. There will be adequate safety arrangements at jetties, including temporary shelters,” said the state transport minister.
 
 The model safe boat with flat bottom will cost Rs 9.3 lakh to Rs 14 lakh. 
 
 Unlike the mechanized country boat, these boats will have powerful engines to propel the vessel against the flow of the river. “We are also speaking to nationalised banks and non-banking financiers so that these boat operators get easy loans at low rates of interest,” said additional chief secretary (transport) Alapan Bandyopadhyay.
 
 Besides, four steel vessels were also given to four municipalities so that they can operate in the districts. The West Bengal transport minister said the government has sought loan assistance from the World Bank for developing infrastructure along the Hooghly-Bhagirathi or National Highway-1. 
 
 
