At  , The Great Khali made a surprise return to the   helping out   to retain his WWE Championship in a brutal Punjabi Prison Match defeating Randy Orton. The New Day won their first WWE SmackDown Live tag team championship beating the USOS while Kevin Owens won back the United States Championship won AJ Styles in controversial circumstances. Natalya overcame four other women's superstars to become the number one contender for the women's championship. 

 
 
 
 Jinder Mahal retained the WWE Championship after a brutal Punjabi Prsion match with the help of none other than the creator of the Punjabi Prison Match, the Great Khali. Orton and Mahal gave their everything as they looked to climb out of the first cage. When they managed to do so, the Singh brothers, who had earlier stated that they will not take be by Mahal's side got themselves involved and stopped Orton from climbing out and helped Mahal in a big way. Orton though took care of the Singhs. Samir found himself on the outside, 15 foot high on the cage and took a spectacular bump on to the announcer's table. Sunil got his qouta of punishment with a steel chair in hand. Orton's path was clear after he decimated Mahal with the steel chair but as soon as Orton started to climb, Mahal's music hit and in walked The Great Khali. Khali shook the cage and Orton had to retreat. Khali then grabbed Orton by the throat allowing Mahal to climb out and retain the title. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Despite Maria Kanellis' repeated interruptions, Sami Zayn managed to hit the Hellva kick on Mike Kanellis and picked up the win 
 
 
 
 
 Big Match John did it again and one hell of match with Rusev, Rusev and Cena put on a clinic in the Flag match with some huge spots and good storytelling. Rusev got to the flag first but Cena managed to stave off Rusev for a long time and got the United States flag from the pole. The fight picked up momentum at the entrance ramp were majority of the action took place and after quite a lot of close calls, Cena hit an AA on Rusev from the top of the podium were the flag had to be placed on to the tables set earlier by Rusev. Cena won the match 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Match of the Night, anyone? Not quite though but nevertheless a solid one but with yet another abrupt end. The two superstars went out at each other and in the final sequence, Owens threw Styles on to the referee who was knocked down. Styles proceeded for a calf crusher but he did not tap and transitioned in to a crossface on Styles. Syles countered with a crossface of his own while the refree stirred. Owens managed a bridge and Styles shoulder were down, he did not realize it and the referee counted three to hand Owens his third WWE United States Championship. 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 With SmackDown Live women's champion Naomi at ringside, the five best women wrestler in the roster took on each other with Tamina and Lana enjoying the early proceeding owing to their strange team work. Charlotte, Natalya and Becky were reeling before, Becky got the momentum on her side and put Lana in the disarmer twice, but the Ravishing Russian was saved by Tamina on both occasions. But Becky got rid of Tamina with the diarmer before eliminating Lana with the same mover. Almost immediately, Natalya rolled up Becky and grabbed the tights to remove the Irish Lass Kicker from the match. It was down to Charlotte and Natalya and Charlotte got some good sports before she decided to go for a moonsault from the top rope only to be countered by Natalya who got her knees up on time. Natalya picked up the victory by throwing Charlotte on to the bottom turnbuckle and had the three-count to become the number one contender for the WWE SmckDown Live Women's Championship 
 
  
  
 
 
 An out-and-out physical confrontation and the both the superstars did well to overcome their lack of chemistry and it was slugfest at best. Nakamura was not busy selling moves and he got a good amount of offense in before a low blow from Crobin led to an sudden end to the match. Nakamura won via DQ but Corbin came back hitting the Japanese star with his Money in the Bank briefcase and laid him out with the end of days 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 A solid match with the USOS putting in another good match. For the new day, Big E sat out a Xavier Woods and Kofi Kingston took on the champions. After a lot of close calls and 3-count pinfalls, the USOS positioned themselves up on the turnbuckle for a frog splash on but Woods pushed Jey and Kingston avoided Jimmy's splash before hitting trouble in paradise. Woods hit Jey with a flying elbow to notch up the win as New Day became the SmackDown Live tag team champions. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 English picked a surprised win over Dllinger with a variation of his finishing move the Director's cut (Full Nelson in to a face-first slam)
 
  
  
 
