NEW DELHI: The   existence of two women in a locked house in   continued to aroused curiosity a day after their rescue, with police yet to determine why the elderly Mahavir Mishra had confined them to the room. 

 While some relatives said that two women claimed to be visited by dead family members, another daughter-in-law claimed that Mishra had similarly restricted her from leaving the house in Mahavir Enclave II.
 
 Police said on Thursday that they would probably get a clearer picture about the strange situation only when Kalavati, 42, and her daughter Deepa, currently being examined in Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, were able to narrate their story. 
 
 “We have not questioned the women yet,” said Surender Kumar, DCP (Southwest).
 
 Mishra, Kalavati’s father-in-law, told the police that after the death of his son, his daughter-in-law had gone into depression and seeing her mother in the dismal state, Deepa had followed suit. 
 
 “Kalavati claimed her husband visited her every day and she had long conversations with him,” Mishra reportedly told the  . Since then, he was having them treated for mental problems.
 
 Urmila, Mishra’s elder daughter-in-law, however, added an intriguing side story. Urmila, who claimed to live in the same house but only saw the two women after four years on Wednesday, said Mishra had warned her too from stepping out of the house. 
 
 The widowed Urmila said, “After my husband died in an accident, my father-in-law warned me that he would throw me out of the house if I disobeyed him. My children were young and I had no other place to go to, so I accepted his terms. My sons have started working now and take me out when my father-in-law is sleeping. I long for freedom.”
 
 Relatives also alleged that Mishra sent Kalavati’s mentally challenged son to a temple to get free food with which he fed the two incarcerated women.
 
 Urmila’s son Ankit, however, backed his grandfather and said the elderly man had made efforts to have his aunt and cousin exorcised with two visits to the Balaji temple and several sessions with tantriks. “They still claim they are visited by my dead uncle and brother,” said Ankit. “We hear the two women talking to them almost every night.”
 
 For over four years, the mother-daughter duo used to make weird noises and call for help, said a neighbour. 
 
 One of them finally reported the matter to the cops. When the police reached the house on Wednesday, the pair, however, told them that they were living in seclusion out of choice. 
 
 The cops found the women malnourished and unkempt. “They had blisters all over their bodies,” said a senior officer. “And they appeared mentally unstable.”
 
 
