NAGPUR: For the third time in as many days   played aggressively. Playing freely gave him the desired result as the 50-year-old registered yet another facile victory in his second tournament of the   at Catalonia, Spain, on Tuesday.

 City’s only International Master (IM) surprised higher ranked   (FM)   from Peru in their seventh round battle to post another victory in the nine-day   chess tournament.
 
 With his fourth win in the nine-round tournament, Deshmukh collected 4.5 points and is well in contention to gain valuable rating points.
 
 With an international rating of 2241 Elo points, Deshmukh’s stretched his performance rating to 2271 by the end of the 7th round.
 
 On the 17th board, Deshmukh made most of his opening advantage with the white pieces to register a comfortable victory over Jesus.
 
 Deshmukh started with the English opening, for the second time in the meet, and took just 35 moves to upset higher ranked master. At 2309 Elo points, the 42-year-old Jesus had 68 more rating points than Deshmukh.
 
 Elated with his third successive success, Deshmukh said, “Much like my fifth round, again I started with the English Opening and got success in taking an early advantage. Utilizing my opening advantage I got a clear edge after the initial nine moves against my experienced rival.
 
 “In the 10th move I made a slight technical error and Jesus made his intentions clear to convert my opening into the Dutch defense. “By exchanging some of my pieces I denied him that conversion. That gave me a winning position,” Deshmukh further added.
 
 “After gaining a clear advantage I suffocated him in the middle game. When his Rook and Bishop were out of the war zone I finished the game with a decent combination after sacrificing my Rook for the checkmate,” Deshmukh explained how he checkmated his opponent in the game that lasted for 35 moves.
 
 With a decent score of 4.5 points from seven rounds, Deshmukh will look to stretch his winning performance in the remaining two rounds.
 
 In the 8th and penultimate rounds, the city IM will again start with the white pieces against much higher ranked Spanish FM Diaz Camallonga Carles. Against the 21-year-old, he will be seen in action on the 10th board.
 
 
