: The corporator-contractor-babu nexus, which has plagued the civic administration over the past three decades, needs to be smashed. Every year, the civic standing committee awards contracts worth thousands of crores for civic works to private contractors. It is widely believed that these contracts are cornered by politically-connected contractors, who then carry out shoddy work. Payoffs and undercutting becomes rampant in pursuit of these contracts. Corporators should be held culpable and made answerable to the public.

 
 : Over the past three years, a mind boggling Rs 9,000 crore has been spent on road repairs and upgradation. Yet, large stretches of arterial roads are riddled with craters during monsoon, slowing down traffic and even claiming lives of bikers. Road contractors have short changed the city for years in connivance with   engineers. A new monitoring system and close supervision by a team of independent experts is needed.
 
 
  The civic building proposals department is considered the most lucrative of postings for unscrupulous officials. Despite several attempts to make the system more transparent, the administration has failed to curb corruption in this department. Developers complain their files do not move until money is paid. This department needs a complete spring-cleaning.
 
 
  Shrinking open spaces have been a big concern.
 BMC must identify plots to create more playgrounds and gardens. Tree cover too is dwindling because of infrastructure projects. Replanting them will be a challenge. The city also needs more public swimming pools. At present, there are half a dozen for a population of 12 million.
 
 
  The BMC runs four medical colleges, one dental institute, over 170 dispensaries and 50 maternal centres, yet the private sector plays a significant role in fulfilling the city's health needs. Overcrowding, unfilled posts and lack of quality care have topped the list of grievances among citizens. The corporation not just needs to increase the health allocation budget, but also ensure that the money is used optimally. It needs to strengthen primary health centres by recruiting more doctors and making basic medicines available.
 
 
  Waste disposal has become a huge problem with all the dumping grounds saturated.
 The city generates roughly 10,000 tons of garbage each day and the situation has reached tipping point-the dumpyards are literally on fire. BMC must enforce waste segregation to make people separate dry and wet waste. The administration must also promote vermiculture and waste composting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
