BENGALURU/GUNDLUPET: BJP leader   on Sunday alleged that chief minister   and his associates have received Rs 65 crore kickbacks in the awarding of controversial steel flyover project. 

  This follows BSY's allegations that the Siddaramaiah government has sent Rs 1,000 crore to the Congress leaders in Delhi. 
 
 Siddaramaiah trashed the allegations and vowed to retire from politics if the charges were proved. "I haven't taken a paisa in the flyover project," he said in a barnstorm of Nanjangud, going to the bypoll soon.
 
  BSY claimed he has a copy of the diary allegedly kept by a Congress MLC, who was raided in January by the income-tax department. 
 
 Yeddyurappa added that the   was inquiring into it.
 
 The former CM alleged Rs 65 crore was part of the Rs 1,000-crore purse sent to the Congress leaders. "The diary records a deal of Rs 150 crore sealed with middlemen for the steel bridge contract," he added.
 
 In Gundlupet, Siddaramaiah said: "Let Yeddyurappa prove the allegation. If it's true, I'll quit as CM and retire from politics. If he fails (to prove the charge), then he should apologize to the public and resign from politics."
 
 Moreover, the CM said jottings on a piece of paper were not admissible in a court of law.
 
 Siddaramaiah, who clarified his stance at three different locations in the Nanjangud tour, said: "Yeddyurappa is one of the most corrupt politicians from Karnataka, facing charges in 15 cases. I've presented 12 budgets, and there are no complaints against me."
 
 Yeddyurappa refused to confirm whether he had a copy of the diary or was verbally informed of its contents by his sources. He said the steel bridge is under the scanner of the  , adding explains the controversy surrounding the project. He said the BJP would hit the streets across the state and question Siddaramaiah on the alleged kickbacks in the project.
 
 The state BJP president sought the resignation of small-scale industries minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who was raided by tax sleuths in January. He said the PM, too, demanded the resignation of Jarkiholi, but the CM was shielding him.
 
