With an array of diets promising to help us achieve our ideal weight, it is sometimes difficult to understand how they would help our body type. Different plans work for different bodies and a generalized diet cannot be taken into consideration if you wish to lose weight in a healthy manner. Let us see how ' ' can help us, not only to lose weight but also to enhance our health.

 
 
 Zone diet was primarily designed by biochemist Berry Sears. This diet requires you to have 30 per cent protein, 30 per cent fat and 40 per cent carbs in every meal. However, it is not as easy it sounds.
 
 Even though the zone diet includes the three nutrients in proper quantities, there are many foods which are banned from this diet. This diet is meant for fat loss more than weight loss and hence, results on the weighing scale may not show as much as in the fitting of your clothes.
 
 According to Dr Sears, if you follow the zone diet, you can prevent inflammation in your body and lose weight in the process. The reason for this, as given by Dr Sears, is that a body which constantly faces inflammation is an obese one. Therefore, if you neutralize your diet in ‘the zone’ manner, you can get rid of insulin issues, inflammation troubles and hence, end up losing weight in a healthy manner.
 
 Some vegetables and fruits which are not allowed in the zone diet are bananas, corn, raisins, sapodilla (cheeku), carrots, mangoes, potatoes etc. These are banned from your diet as they contain high glycemic index and hence, lead to rise in insulin levels.
 
 In terms of proteins, one is expected to consume low-protein products. This means tofu, egg whites, soyabean, skinless chicken and fish. Even the milk that you should be consuming should ideally be skimmed or 1 per fat cent.
 
 Lastly, you are supposed to consume low-fat items. This means that no full-fat milk, which is a common dairy product found in Indian homes. Going by the rules of the diet, you can include tofu but not paneer due to the fat content. However, low-fat paneer can be added for your protein and fat requirement. Even consumption of animal-based fats like butter and omega-6 fatty acids is a big no in the zone diet.
 
 
 
 Since the consumption of our favourites like bananas and paneer is kept at bay, here is an example of how you can try the zone diet:
 Breakfast: Egg white vegetable omelette, apples, almonds
 Snack: Chana (chickpea) chaat
 Lunch: 1 bowl dal, vegetable salad, low- fat stir-fried tofu
 Snack: Sprout salad with vegetables
 Dinner: Besan cheela, low-fat paneer bhurji with vegetable salad
 
 Our Indian dals and subzis are great for consumption if you wish to follow the zone diet as they will satiate you for a longer period of time. Even if you wish to consume butter, sticking to white butter churned at home is the best option, however, in small quantity.
  
 
