BENGALURU: 
 
 

  effectively means greater autonomy for self-determination at a strategic level. The appointment of the chair will be done by a search and selection committee of the board, rather than the government playing a role. The director will be appointed by the board. It will avoid delays and uncertainties when IIMs have to manage with temporary heads.
 
 The ability to acquire land, devel op new campuses and grow in directions determined by the board is significantly enhanced. In IIM-Bangalore, a decision had been made to set up an international campus, which was later questioned and turned down by the government. I would like to add that IIMs have always enjoyed autonomy with respect to faculty recruitment, programme design and delivery, student recruitment and setting academic priorities.
 
 
 
 The Bill explicitly provides for the two-year programme to be converted to degree-granting programme as a Master's, and the Fellow Programme to a Doctorate.
 
 Many IIMs also run one-year programmes, leveraging the participants' experience and giving them a postgraduate diploma on par with the two-year programme. All IIM directors have started discussions on how they would like to treat the one-year programme towards grant of degrees. The starting premise is that IIMs have autonomy, and as long as certain minimum defining attributes are ensured, degrees would also be granted to such programmes. The short-duration Executive Programmes would continue.
 
 
 
 It would be desirable to convert all PGDM programmes to Master's degree granting programme.
 
 However, some IIMs may want to keep the option of awarding a postgraduate diploma as distinguished from a Master's degree, for the sake of flexibility.
 
 
 
 
 There is a perceived challenge of boards now not having a 'counterweight' from the government. Of 15 members on the board, only two come in through an independent decision making process -the central and state government nominees. Of the remaining 13, two are from faculty and five from alumni, and unless regulations are created where the locus of control can move away from the board, they may not be really independent of the board. Out of the remaining six, one is the director appointed by the board and the remaining five are people of eminence, including the chair. The board will have a once-in-three-year external performance review. Accreditation agencies, ranking agencies, media, student selections and placements markets are external stakeholders who would demand accountability.
 
 
 
 
 Apart from stakeholder-wise representation, the Bill mandates reservation for SCST and women across a subset of stakeholders. Many IIM boards may have naturally evolved into this, like IIM Bangalore. (IIMB had appointed a person from the SCST category but that person could not join.)
 
