If you've ever lived or travelled abroad and felt uncomfortable at the frequent invasions of your  , you are, most probably, British.

 But it's not just in your head- different nationalities really do have different perceptions of what constitutes personal space and how close is acceptable to stand to various acquaintances. According to a new study, Brits like to keep a metre from a stranger, 80 cm from an acquaintance and just over 50 cm from an intimate or close friend. Indians too like to keep just over a metre from a stranger, 90 cm from an acquaintance and just over 60 cm from an intimate or close friend.
 
 This is in contrast to Argentinians who keep a 76 cm distance for a stranger, 59 cm for an acquaintance and 40 cm for a friend.
 
 And in news that will come as no surprise to anyone who's ever entered a salsa club, Argentinians are the most touchy-feely nation.
 
 Carried out by scientists across the world, the research was intended to find out how culture, wealth and even weather affect our ideas of personal space. The 8,943 participants from 42 countries were asked how close to someone they'd stand depending on the relationship.
 
 “We attempted to relate the preferred social, personal, and intimate distances ob served in each country to a set of individual characteristics of the participants, and some attributes of their cultures,“ the researchers wrote. “Our study indicates that individual characteristics (age and gender) influence interpersonal space preferences and that some variation in results can be explained by temperature in a given region.“
 
 One theory was that people are more likely to stand in closer proximity in warmer climes because the hotter weather creates a friendly atmosphere. However other theories suggest that people should be more likely to stand further away to reduce the risk of catching disease.
 
 Whilst Argentinians have the smallest personal space, Romanians have the largest, preferring to keep 1.3 metres from someone they've just met. However once Romanians become friends, they're comfortable standing just 40 cm apart.
 
 There were also obvious gender differences with women preferring more personal space when strangers or acquaintances approached than men did.
 
 
 THE INDEPENDENT
 
