COIMBATORE: A full six days after the sensational murder of a security guard and burglary at former chief minister Jayalalithaa's opulent retreat within   in the Nilgiris, pieces are falling in place -only to exacerbate the mystery .

 It is now confirmed that a 11-member gang, organised by Jayalaltihaa's sacked car driver Kanagaraj, entered the estate in three vehicles on April 23 night, and broke into at least three rooms used by Jayalalithaaa and her friend   They apparently believed that `200 crore had been stashed somewhere in the bungalow.
 
 While an official statement claimed that only five watches and a crystal showpiece had been stolen from these rooms, a police officer privy to the probe told TOI that at least three suitcases were found lying open and it could not be ascertained what valuables had been carted away by the burglars.
 
 Police have so far arrested Santhosh Sami, Deepu, Satheesan and Udhayakumar, all belonging to Thrissur in Kerala, while the brain behind the plot, Kanagaraj, was killed in a road accident at Aathur in Salem district on Friday .
 
 Less than five hours after Kanagaraj died, his associate Sayan alias Shyam met with a road accident at Palakkad in Kerala in the early hours of Saturday .
 
 While he suffered grievous injuries when his car apparently rammed a stationary truck, his wife Vinupriya and five-year-old daughter Neethu died on the spot.
 
 Even as conspiracy theories were floating around throughout the day , a police statement ruled out any foul play, and said, “so far, no suspicion over the cause of the accident has been reported by the Salem police as well as the Palakkad police.“
 
 Though there were unconfirmed reports about seven suspects being taken into custody , police maintained that five accused were still at large. According to police, after Jayalalithaa's death in December 2016, Kanagaraj got information in Feb araj got information in February this year that `200 crore in cash had been kept in the Kodanad bungalow.
 
 He then met his friend Sayan and decided to burgle Sayan and decided to burgle the house, with the help of `quotation gang' members in Kerala. They visited Kerala more than 20 days ago and met Sayan's friend Manoj, who made arrangements.
 
 Though the gang had used fake number plates for vehi cles and discarded the used gloves while fleeing after the murder of Om Bahadur Thapa, one sports utility vehicle bearing the original number plate was caught on a   at   It was this footage which helped police officers trace the SUV and arrest six people.
 
 Police seized two cars from the gang members, while the third car was involved in an accident in Palakkad injuring Sayan. His wife and child were found dead in the vehicle.
 
 A TOI report from Thris sur said headload worker Satheesan and tipper driver Deepu were arrested in January this year, in connection with an attempted highway robbery on   in Wayanad. The two, remanded in Kalpetta jail, were out on bail when they got involved in the burglary bid at the Kodanad tea estate.
 
 A third suspect, Santhosh, engages in performing poojas in a family temple, and involvement of this timid person having no known criminal antecedents has shocked his family and neighbours alike.
 
