NEW DELHI: Delhiites could get some respite from the burning heat that has gripped the capital for the past three days. The met office has predicted one or two spells of storm and rain in Delhi-NCR from Tuesday morning till Thursday, which is likely to bring temperatures down by a couple of notches. 

 Delhi continued to sizzle on Monday as the mercury touched a high of 42.8 degrees Celsius at Safdarjung, four degrees above normal. Like on Sunday - the season's hottest day - Palam was warmer at 44 degrees.
 
 The regional met office said a fresh thunderstorm and dust storm is likely on Tuesday morning, with scattered rainfall across Delhi-NCR. The   is likely to be accompanied with squally winds exceeding 55km per hour, particularly on May 10. There's a chance of rain on May 11 as well.
 
 While the storm activity is unlikely to sustain long enough to have a major impact on heat, peak temperatures may fall to 40-41 degrees in the next three days. The maximum temperature on Tuesday is forecast to be 41 degrees C with the minimum hovering around 27 degrees C.
 
 Extreme temperatures arrived early this summer, but so far spells of   have been broken by thunderstorms or  . This is the typical weather pattern in May. 
 
  during this month can lead to long spells of extreme heat, increasing the incidence of  . In recent years, May 2013 was a particularly hot month when no rain was recorded and there were six heat wave days, with the mercury hitting 45.7째C (47.2 at Palam).
 
 This year, the temperature rose to 44.1째C on Sunday, five notches above normal. Palam recorded 45.1째 that day.
 
 "The heat wave was caused by anticyclonic conditions across Rajasthan which led to high temperatures in Delhi-NCR," said an official from  's Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. 
 
 "The heat will ease slightly with this spell of thunderstorm activity. Rainfall might take place in scattered places and a cooling effect of 1-2째 is expected in the maximum temperature.There will be some respite till May 12," the official said.
 
