NEW DELHI:   had come fully prepared. He had worked hard on all the aspects of the game and was confident of grabbing a medal in the home World Cup. But what he lacked was the preparation to counter the strong winds sweeping the   shooting ranges for the last few days. The outcome was yet another medalless day for India at the mega event where the home shooters including the experienced Rajput drew a blank on Sunday . The hosts have so far won just one medal ­  's bronze in women's 10m air rifle.

 Rajput was in the reckoning for a medal for the better part of his men's rifle 3 positions event. He finished 5th after the kneeling round of 15 shots in the final. Improved his position to 3rd after the prone event of 15 shots. But failed to lift his game while shooting at the standing position to finish fifth.
 
 “Match was tough due to windy conditions. I had prepared hard for the event, but not prepared enough to tackle in these windy conditions. There was strong wind. I tried my level best, but somehow I could not read the wind in the final hall,“ the 36-year-old said.
 
 Rajput's downfall started when the competition entered the final stage. He was locked in an engrossing battle with Thailand's   for the third place. But an 8.4 on the fourth shot in standing position virtually dashed his hopes. He could never recovered from that position. When he was eliminated he was just 0.1 point behind the Thai.
 
 “I could not settle down properly in the standing position. This has been an issue in that position. I hit a lot of low 9s and low 10s. That was not enough. I wanted to return with a medal. That regret will be there,“ said Rajput, who had earlier won a World Cup gold in the event in 2011 in Changwon.'' Rajput had made it to the 8men final at the 8th position.China's Zichenge Hui and Sun Jian took the gold and silver respectively while Switzerland's   took the bronze. The Thai finished fourth.
 
 Earlier,   2013 winner   disappointed by failing to qualify for the summit clash, while Harven Srao made the cut but could not finish on the podium in the women's 10m air pistol event.
 
 
