With cutting-edge infrastructure and beautiful stations as a part of Nagpur   Rail project, the venture is the cynosure of all eyes. In fact, this mega project has already become a hot favourite among the city collegians, who are queueing up for summer internship at the metro rail office.
Studying civil engineering from Yeshwantrao Chavan   of Engineering, Shraddha Rajgure feels that being associated with such an ambitious project will help boost her curriculum vitae. She adds, “I’ll surely have an edge over my classmates who are interning in other firms and are repenting due to lack of exposure there. With frequent site visits, I’m gaining good practical knowledge at Nagpur metro. In fact, our ideas and suggestions are also being taken seriously during the meetings. The internship has instilled immense confidence in a fresher like me.” 
 Another student Likhit Agrawal, who is interning in the signal and telecommunication department, says, “My basic reason to join metro project was to enjoy a tryst with green technology. There are so many technologies used in this project. I couldn’t have chosen a better project than Nagpur metro. It has allowed me to indulge in a detailed study of wireless communication.” 
 Besides engineering students, many architecture students are also making the most of this opportunity. One such student Pawani Vaidya says, “We always complain about lack of opportunities in the city, so when I got it, I jumped without any hesitation. It feels great to be a part of such a prestigious project and contribute to Nagpur’s development. The experience here has been quite enriching; I got the opportunity to get a hang of working models of three metro stations. This internship has created a strong base for many good career prospects for me.” 
 Maha metro chief   Dixit, admits that Nagpur Metro Rail is a humongous project and provides a golden opportunity to city students to pursue training. “We have approached the faculty members of quite a few engineering colleges in the city to send their students to us and make use of this excellent platform. Till now, more than 300 students have done their internship with us but I want many more students to join us in future,” says he.
 
