AHMEDABAD: A jewellery shop owner hanged himself at his residence in Nikol on April 29. His wife registered a complaint of abetment of suicide against five persons with Nikol police, after which three of the accused have been arrested. Police are yet to learn of the exact amount of debt and rate of interest.

 According to Nikol police, Amrat Kamaniya (Raval), a resident of Surabhi Residency in Nikol, was the owner of   in Bapunagar. He had taken another shop in   in Mehsana district and was in the process of shifting house before April 30. 
  
  
 On April 29, he had been to the residence at 9 pm and did not return for a long time. Meanwhile, his wife Neeta started getting calls from relatives who informed that Amrat had mentioned in a WhatsApp group that he was going to commit suicide, and those who had driven him to end his life are mentioned in a note. Alarmed, the jeweller’s family members rushed to the residence and found him hanging with a plastic rope from a hook in the ceiling. Subsequent investigation found two notes one addressed to the relatives requesting them to take care of his wife and children, and another mentioning names of five moneylenders.
 
 “Neeta Kamaniya, his wife, has named Rajendrasinh Rajput, Amit Parmar, Amrat Desai, Palak Barot and his brother Amrut, all residents of various parts of Bapunagar area, for abetment to suicide in her complaint on May 1,” said a Nikol police official.
 
 “She did not know the exact amount paid by Kamaniya or the rate of interest, but she mentioned that she remembered hearing her husband say that he had paid more interest than the amount he had borrowed from a group to expand his business,” the police official added. N N Pargi, inspector of Nikol police station, said that Kamaniya used to deal in   and silver ornaments from his shop in Bapunagar, when he had come into contact with the moneylenders. “We are yet to arrest Palak and Amrut Barot, but three other accused have been arrested. According to the accused, the man from whom Kamaniya had borrowed money on interest has died,” said Pargi.
 
 
