PUNE:  , especially on the city’s eastern fringes through which a   passes, are left high and dry in the wake of the Supreme Court’s alcohol ban within 500 metres of national and state highways. 

 Some of the establishments have put up notices, directing the patrons to their branches elsewhere in the city. 
 
 Many pubs, bars, clubs and hotels off Ahmednagar Road, a state highway, which were among the hot favourites for youngsters looking for a watering hole and cheap food at night, have been severely affected.
 
 Managers of small bars and restaurants admitted that they could serve only food to their patrons and that footfall at their establishments has reduced considerably ever since the ban came into effect from April 1.
 
 “In accordance with the orders, we have stopped serving any kind of alcohol to people. We are serving only food and soft drink. There has been a drop in the number of people who visited us over the weekend,” said Amin Shaikh, who manages a small restaurant near the Vimannagar intersection.
 
 Tenants inside a shopping mall on Ahmednagar Road are also affected, with a number of restaurants putting up notices of a reduced menu, or even shutting shop altogether. All of them are waiting for modifications, if any, to the orders.
 
 “This bar opened a few months ago, and now it has shut down. The owners are waiting to see if any modifications are made. Keeping the outlet open is a loss for them,” said Mukesh R, a security guard at one of the bars.
 
 “People have indeed been enquiring about availability of alcohol. However, I stopped serving alcohol as soon as the SC order came into effect,” said the manager of a popular restaurant outlet inside a shopping mall.
 
 As most bars and restaurants here had a quiet Sunday, some party-goers looked visibly upset. “At least, the city areas should have been spared,” said Akash Jain, a college student.
 
 The   had on Friday refused to revisit its order banning liquor vends within 500 metres of national and state highways from April 1 and ruled that this would also effect hotels and restaurants on highways from serving liquor to guests.
 
 Pune collector Saurabh Rao on Saturday said a proposal has been sent to the state government, seeking denotification of state highways passing through the city and maintained by the civic body. 
 
