CHENNAI: Several kirana shops across Tamil Nadu either stopped selling bottled drinks of Pepsi and Coke or stopped placing fresh orders, following a decision that was taken by traders’ associations at the peak of the jallikattu protests in January.

 The decision to ban the sale of Coke and Pepsi was taken by the associations during the jallikattu protest on the Marina in January as People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PeTA) had opposed the bull taming sport. “It is only an American organisation (read PeTA) which was responsible for the ban on jallikattu. That is why we decided to ban the sale of American soft drinks in the state,” said an official of the traders’ association.
 
 There are several small traders who stock these soft drinks and some of them told TOI that the association forced them not to stock the popular cola brands. The associations said the two US companies are drawing excessive water from the state for its bottling operations, which affected the scarce water sources.
 
 Most shops in Madurai city are boycotting Pepsi and Coke, while a few say they are exhausting their stocks purchased months ago.
 
 “I have stopped selling Pepsi and Coke. But people are open to local alternatives, even products like buttermilk, as the days are getting hotter,” said Manikandan, who owns a shop at Anna Nagar.
 
 Meenakshi Sundaram of South Marret Street, a retailer of soft drinks, said their margins were better with Coke and Pepsi but now people are asking for local brands. “However, we have reduced our stocks since the jallikattu protests,” he said.
 
 “My decision to stop the sale Pepsi and Coke was prompted by the jallikattu protests. Everyone needs to support the cause,” said Suresh Alvar, a Trichy-based trader.
 
 V Annamalai from Pudukkottai, a B Com student in Bishop Heber College in Trichy, rooted for locally made beverages and snacks, but warned that even these beverages could cause ground water depletion. “They should follow the regulations to save water and environment. Or they will also face such a situation soon,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Indian Beverages Association (IBA) said it was deeply disappointed by the call to boycott products manufactured by Coca-Cola and PepsiCo India.
 
 “This call is against the proven fundamentals of robust economic growth, and against the clarion call of “Making in India”. The boycott call also violates the rights of the consumer to exercise choice. The IBA has already clarified that both Hindustan Coca-Cola and PepsiCo India are local companies, registered in India and compliant to all applicable rules and regulations. They respect local culture and consumer sentiments,” said IBA.
 
 
