JAIPUR: Raju Kasambe of the Bombay Natural History Society was at the Mansagar Lake on the northern outskirts of Jaipur on Thursday morning, watching birds and also directing young students who arrived to take a peek through a powerful telescope that had arrived in India with  , former manager of Rutland Water in UK. By lunchtime, Kasambe said he had spotted 37 different species. Then looking over the hills near the lake, he said, “No, 38 – I had not counted that peacock”.

 As the little grebes, moorhen, grey heron, ruffs – their females are called reeves -- cormorants and pelicans waded in the water, Kasambe pointed to some dry land in the middle of the lake and said, “There is a pair of little ringed plover there.” Kasambe had first spotted movement with his bare eyes. Even the young students at the site, however, could only see the pair of plovers through the telescope.
 
 At a distance were two large white birds striated with black, standing on long stilts – pied avocets, Kasambe told the schoolchildren around him. 
 
 Tim Appleton, who only recently retired after serving 42 years as manager of Rutland Water in England, where an annual birdfair has been held for 28 years, was also at Mansagar on Thursday morning. Addressing a group of children, he suddenly looked up at a large flying  , put his binoculars to his eyes and said, “A Dalmatian pelican – my first!”
 
 At the end of the day, teachers accompanying the schoolchildren had to wrench children away from the telescope. Harsh, a student of Class-XI who was not in his school uniform, said he was bunking school. “There is a lot more that I’m interested in happening here. Nature is what I intend to study further too,” he told TOI.
 
 There were stalls at the fair showing the impact of climate change. A group of young students studying art and craft helped schoolchildren learn how to make little fans and other such things.  , playwright and actor, recited nature poetry by Rabindranath Tagore. Appleton addressed students too, talking of his experiences in nature conservation.
 
  of the ministry of environment, in a 2008 paper available on the website of the ministry, writes that Mansagar was formed by damming the Darbhawati River around 1610 AD by Raja Man Singh I, then ruler of Amer. In 1962, however, sewage from Jaipur was directed into the lake. “For years,” conservationist   recalls, “one needed a handkerchief to cover one’s nose if one approached the lake.” A major conservation attempt was undertaken. For 20 years now, Harsh Vardhan and a team of volunteers have been organizing the birdfair at the site. The fair will conclude on Friday.
 
 
