THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It seems   will move ahead smoothly. PWD Minister G Sudhakaran met   senior infrastructure specialist Bernard Aritua on Friday and promised to appoint a full-time project director (IAS rank) to oversee the works.

 The cabinet decision to appoint five specia lists for   ( ) was conveyed to the World Bank team. Lack of leadership was one of the major concerns raised by World Bank since project directors were changed four time in a span of six months.
 
 The steps were taken by the state government after World Bank, which sanctioned funds for KSTP-II, sent a mail threatening to cancel the loan. This forced the state to act so that it could utilize over $22 million for road safety that remained untouched after 2013. Subsequently, World Bank withdraw its plan to cancel fund.
 
 In order to strengthen KRSA, the government decided to appoint an executive director for road safety and directors for road user safety, government support and community liaison, data analysis and performance monitoring, and campaigns and public relations. Transport commissioner S Ananthakrishnan said that since World Bank's procurement norms have to be followed while appointing specialists, the transport department asked   to do the recruitment. The World Bank will pay the salaries of the officials for an initial period of three years, he said.
 
 On the concerns of non-compliance of road safety measures during construction, World Bank had asked the government to appoint safety officers to review each work. World Bank officials were shocked to see that labourers were working without proper gear, ignoring safety norms. It also asked government to improve the quality of work. Sources said that the agency had expressed its displeasure over the degradation in quality.
 
 “One particular case they mentioned was a crack in Neelimangalam Bridge on MC road.Though World Bank asked KSTP to conduct a study and find the reason, it did not give a satisfactory report. The experts could not conclude whether the crack was just on the surface or a structural one. World Bank said not to open the bridge until this matter was resolved and a satisfactory report was filed,“ sources said.
 
