CHARMINAR: Fifty years ago, on April 6, Nizam VIII, Mir Barkat Ali Khan   Bahadur was coronated. And city   have geared up to celebrate the crowning moment. Mukarram Jah was the titular Nizam of Hyderabad from April 6, 1967, to December 28, 1971. He may have lost the title after abolition of the Privy Purse in 1971, but a large number of people in Hyderabad still hold him as the titular Nizam.

 But for abolition of the Islamic Caliphate after the Turkey revolution in 1924, Mukarram Jah would have been now the spiritual head of 1.6 billion Muslims around the world. His maternal grandfather, Caliph Abdul Majeed II, spiritual and temporal head of the Muslim world and ruler of the Ottoman Empire, in his will named that in case of revival of the Islamic Caliphate, Mukarram Jah will be his successor.
 
 The Caliph was also the caretaker of the shrines in Mecca, Medina and Jerusalem, the three most sacred places of Islam. Mukarram Jah, 83, now lives in Turkey. The   has decided to distribute DVD copies with recording of the coronation (Gaddi Nashini) of Mukarram Jah to mark the golden jubilee. “Mukarram Jah is still regarded as the titular Nizam by many people in the city. We will distribute DVDs free on first-come-first-served basis.
 
  The coronation was held at Chowmohalla Palace. It was attended by representatives of the  ,” said Deccan Heritage Trust managing trustee Dr Mohammad Safiullah. City historians feel Mukarram Jah was unlucky as he lost not only the opportunity to rule the princely state of Hyderabad due to Police Action in September 1948, but also the Caliphate as the concept of spiritual head of Muslims failed to revive. Nizam VII, Mir Osman Ali Khan, had bypassed his eldest son Azam Jah and selected Mukarram Jah to succeed him.
 
 As the coronation ceremony was taking place at Chowmohalla, thousands waited outside. As he came out in an open jeep, he was greeted by people all through the road to King Kothi Palace. Mukarram Jah sported a shervani, dastar, and a ceremonial sword. He was flanked by wife Princess Esra and his brother Muffakham Jah. It was the tradition of the Mughal court that dignitaries sit on the floor while the ruler occupies the throne.
 
 
