BENGALURU:   and technical   Powers are proud of what they do on a fighter jet or a transport aircraft thousands of feet above the ground.

 As flight surgeon on military missions, Captain Jennalee Gaise rides with the rest of the crew to understand the toll that flying at such high altitudes has on a person’s physiology. “I think it’s the best job in the world. I’ve travelled in everything from an F16 to a C-130, and it’s thrilling. I help keep the mission going and ride with the pilots,” says Jennalee.
 
 She had finished her medical school and was interning when she attended a session on aerospace medicine that motivated her for the job. Now, working with the US Air Force for the last three and a half years, Jennalee says the job is challenging and exciting in equal measure. At  , she is the sole medical officer for a 50-member strong contingent.
 
 “You don’t need to have any particular specialization to do what I do. I did undergo special training for this, basically camps where I learnt how to survive in hostile conditions, such as water survival skills and wilderness training. I have even undergone training in a 9g centrifuge and did pretty well. Women tend to,” Jennalee says.
 
 When technical sergeant Marisa Powers isn’t on duty as a loadmaster aboard the C-130J Super Hercules, a military transport aircraft, she works as a dental assistant. “It is strange to go from the sterility of the medical environment to being in an aircraft which is typically greasy and dirty. I thought my job would be putting on a uniform and travelling around the world. I thought I would never get dirty but it’s very rewarding,” says the US National Guard member.
 
 For Senior Airman Powers, working for the air force wasn’t always what she wanted to do. Growing up, she says, she had very typically ‘girly’ ambitions. As the loadmaster, she’s responsible for the safety and security of the entire aircraft and the people onboard.
 
 “I basically do everything till the pilot turns the engine on. I ensure all the controls are working and the cargo has been loaded properly. I do a physical check inside and outside the aircraft. I have a huge notepad with an entire list of items to check off,” Marisa says. She is also the one who tells the jumpers when to jump.
 
 Carrying a 9 mm pistol, she says she has never actually used the weapon and hopes she never has to. “Since we can get stationed in hostile places, we are advised to never venture out alone. Loadmasters are the last line of protection should anything threaten the plane,” she says.
 
