In any organization, the head honcho has a final say in all the activities that are being performed. In many instances, the future of the company rests in the hands of the chief custodian, who steers it to doom or safety. In the human body, the head has assumed the role of the supervisor. A   is imperative for properly functioning organs. So when the head is trapped in the throes of debilitating pain such as a migraine, then the rest of the body also suffers. A recent study indicated an association between heart health and incidence of migraines.

 The study, published in the 
 , involved a prospective analysis of data from 115, 541 women who participated in Nurses' Health Study II. The subjects were between 25 and 42 years of age, did not suffer from heart pain or heart disease to begin with, and were followed up for an average of 20 years for heart disease-related incidents or death. Of the subjects included in the study, 15.2% reported having been diagnosed with migraine before the study. During the course of the follow-up, 1,329 women reported cardiovascular events, and 223 women died from heart disease-related incidents. The risk of heart disease, heart attacks, stroke etc. was found to be higher in women who complained of migraines, when compared to women who did not suffer from the ailment. In addition, the risk of death due to heart disease was higher with a diagnosis of migraine. These results were consistent even when other risk factors for heart disease, such as age, smoking status, hypertension and hormone treatments, were accounted for. The risk of heart disease is significant on a population level, as the prevalence of migraine is quite high. These findings support the inclusion of migraine as an important risk factor, along with the factors classically associated with heart disease, such as obesity, diabetes, cholesterol etc. 
 
 In other words, the head may have a say in the health of your heart, so listen carefully! 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
