Trichy: Assuring all efforts to reduce the cases of dengue in Trichy, the district administration appealed to the people to cooperate with the stake holders to prevent the incidences of dengue. Trichy had a total of 22 dengue-affected patients on Tuesday.

 “A total of 22 patients have been diagnosed with the dengue in Trichy district as per the report of the health department today. We have intensified the measure to reduce mosquito-breeding sources in the city and rural parts of the district,” Trichy district collector K Rajamani told reporters. 
 
 Trichy corporation area witnessed 14 cases of dengue while the rural areas had eight cases. The municipality and town panchayat areas had one case each, said the collector. Even though only 22 patients were diagnosed with dengue in the district, the government hospitals and private hospitals in the district witnessed a total of 109 cases of various types of fever as per Tuesday’s report of the health department. Of the 109 patients, 80 were residents of Trichy district and 29 belonging to the neighbouring districts of Karur, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukkottai. All of them were treated as in-patients.
 
 The revelation of cases of dengue in the district has come as a warning for the people who were earlier left ambiguous over incidences of dengue thus making them insensitive to the dreaded fever. The incidences of dengue remained severe in Mannachanallur, Thathaingarpettai and Musiri areas. Some of the areas in the city corporation also posed challenges to the health department officials to eradicate the source of breeding.
 
 “The health department is utilising the domestic breeding checkers in rural and urban parts. However, there is no cooperation from the people to identify and check the breeding of mosquitoes,” said the collector.
 
 On complaints of inadequate medical care for dengue patients in private hospitals, the collector said a team of health officials will inspect the private hospitals to check if they followed the treatment protocol for dengue.
 
 “The private hospitals with more than 50 patients will be inspected by the team soon in order to check whether the hospitals had proper facilities to treat the dengue patients. In most of the cases, the patients visited the government hospitals at the critical stage after the treatment in some private hospitals in the crucial period,” said the collector.
 
 
