BANKURA:   Das, police said, had murdered his live-in partner Akansha Sharma at his Bhopal residence after the Bankura girl came to know that he had murdered his parents. A few days before the fateful morning of July 15, 2016 Akansha had told Udayan that she was returning to Bankura on July 23 and that she would rip off his six-year-old mask whereby he passed himself off as a UN employee residing in the US. Bankura police claimed the motive behind the murder of Akansha was the “pressing need to hide his previous crimes”.

 The triple murder accused, though, claims he “understands” the gravity of the crimes he has committed and expressed his desire to confess before a magistrate. The Bankura police may move a petition on Wednesday pleading the Bankura local court to allow his statement to be recorded under Section 164 of CrPC.
 
 “Around June 29-30, Akansha, while browsing Udayan’s cupboard, came across the passports (both fake) of Udayan’s parents —   and V K Das — originally inhabitants of Howrah’s Salkia. She also found the fake death certificate of Udayan’s mother. When she confronted Udayan with the documents, he tried to persuade her to relent, but finally owned up to his crime. However, when he realized there was no way he could hold her back, he decided to execute the third murder which he had planned in advance,” said SP (Bankura) Sukhendu Hira.
 
 Police sources said Akansha’s last voice call to her parents were made on June 30 where she sounded “tired and dejected”. “She had left for Delhi on June 23, 2016 with the hope of going to the US. Udayan had earlier married her at a temple on September 29, 2015 which she did not disclose to her parents. Udayan told her that he had extended his stay in India for a couple of days and that she could travel with him to Bhopal from where they will fly to the US. We have found the forged UN letter from Udayan’s Bhopal house that even Akansha had showed to her parents claiming she bagged a job in the US,” said Hira.
 
 But, once in Bhopal, Udayan showed no signs of moving out of the city. As Akansha became vocal, the duo got in to arguments. It was during one such argument that Akansha started looking for clues to find out if he at all was serious about the US assignment and came across the documents related to Udayan’s parents. “Udayan used ropes to tie her and kept her confined to a room. He himself scarcely moved out, ordering samosas for lunch and dinner,” said police. All the torture, though, could not break Akansha’s resilience. She managed to book a ticket to Howrah and this bit of information was reportedly enough for Udayan to plan her murder.
 
 Police said it all began on July 27, 2010 when Udayan murdered both his parents. “He had two motives — murder for gain where he could become the sole heir to the huge property of his parents and his hatred towards them for pushing him to study subjects he hated and admonishing him for small mistakes. Between 2011 and 2013, he led a luxurious life out of his parent’s wealth. By 2014, he was broke and needed money. In Akansha, he saw his hope of making some quick money. However, the fact remains that besides the Rs 70,000 he withdrew from her account, we have not found any other means in which he gained monetarily,” said an officer.
 
 
