Magicians seem to have become favourites among city folks. What with namma stars playing magicians — Vijay in his film with Atlee, Dhanush in his   debut and   in Tik Tik Tik — Chennaiites have taken to illusionists like no other. So, when Serbia-based   came to the city to showcase his tricks, his 20-minute shows — nine performances across three days — won him many fans. 

 The magician, who was in Chennai with his assistant   recently, says, “We spent most of our time practising at the mall in Velachery, where we performed. But we made it a point to wake up early and roam around the city, taking in its sights and sounds.”
 
 Visnja admits she bought two saris. George adds, “And I bought 10 kilos of spices! Gastronomy is my hobby and I love cooking. Back home, I was part of a reality show, My Kitchen Rules, in 2013 and cooked a lot of Indian food. You will be amazed at how well I can make butter chicken, chicken biryani and chicken tikka masala vindaloo. It’s hard to find these spices in my country.”
 
 This is George’s second visit to India. The last time he was here was 20 years ago, for an illusion show in New Delhi. “This time, we showcased our signature work — Quick Change Act — as part of which I change costumes in a matter of seconds. From the regular seven-minute act, it has now extended to 20 minutes. This kind of act is difficult because there is a lot of work behind the scenes that the audience do not see. This is the most complicated thing you can do in magic. Visnja and I have to ensure our moves are perfectly synchronised; it is very hard to achieve. It requires a lot of practice and may take years to reach that level of perfection,” he says.
 George took a keen interest in magic when he was just five. “No one in the family had chosen a career in this field and my parents were naturally disappointed. But when my dad witnessed my first trick, he took me to an accomplished magician so that I can learn the art. When I was 15, I showcased some acts to a packed auditorium in school. My teachers and friends were absolutely thrilled, and they stopped being strict with me,” he recalls with a smile. 
 
 
 When George performed in school, a professional band spotted his act. Impressed, they asked him to be a guest artiste in their gigs. “That’s how I started earning when I was 15. I even learnt ballet dancing and went to an acting school. I was sent to the US to finish high school, but I spent all my money buying magic boxes! And then, I panicked because I was left with no cash. So, I decided to use all those magic boxes I bought to perform and earn money,” he reminisces. 
 
 Since then, there was no looking back for George. “I performed at birthday parties, cruise ships, theme parks, casinos and resorts. I was 19 when I started travelling to places across the globe — Europe, China, Japan, Vietnam, Korea, India, Indonesia, Australia, USA, South America and  ,” he says. 
 
 Recalling an interesting anecdote, he says, “People in Africa thought that I had supernatural powers. People were afraid of me and wouldn’t even come near me, thinking I was a source of bad luck. They thought I belonged to an association of traditional healers from Zimbabwe. Only after I gave them a couple of lectures on what I was doing that they started warming up to me. It took a lot of effort to convince them that what I possessed was magic skills, and not some black magic art.”
 
 
 George says that magic became a form of entertainment in the Western countries in the late 18th century because people didn’t have a lot of options to choose from. “We didn’t have TV, internet and video games. Today, there are so many young magicians who don’t perform live ; they just upload their tricks online to increase their subscriptions and earn some money. That’s perfectly fine, but I think social media has completely destroyed the novelty of stage magic. Moreover, the trend of performing informal acts like street and close-up magic has caught on among youngsters. Yes, stage magic is very expensive; props and costumes cost you a lot of money. So, a youngster naturally prefers to perform in front of a camera rather than invest in a real show. But there’s a thrill in performing live. Veterans like PC Sorcar continue to be the biggest inspirations for people who like to stay true to the traditional style of magic,” he signs off.
 
