KOLKATA: The trailer of Arindam Sil’s ‘Dhananjoy’ that has released online has created quite a stir already. While some are waiting eagerly for the film to know   Chatterjee’s side of the case for which he was convicted for raping and killing 14-year-old  , there is another section that wants to boycott it. The latter’s clamour has now reached the doorstep of the   ( ).

 On Monday, author-turned-banker Debarati Mukhopadhyay sent an email to the regional officer of local CBFC to point that the film might be committing contempt of court. However, Sil insisted that the film has neither supported rape nor maligned the judiciary. “A group with some vested interest is doing this since they don’t want to hear or see the truth,” he said.
 
 Mukhopadhyay insisted that she doesn’t belong to any political party but the trailer prompted her to shoot the e-mail. “The trailer is contesting the judiciary’s verdict. Dhananjoy’s mercy petition was rejected by the former Indian President. In the trailer, there is a close-up of the victim that suggests satisfaction during a consensual act. This is so wrong.”
 
 The film is supposed to release on August 11, which incidentally happens to be the death anniversary of revolutionary leader Khudiram Bose. The release date has also irked some who are unhappy that this coincidence is likely to make people draw unfair comparisons between Khudiram and Dhananjoy. However, Sil said his detractors are jumping to conclusions too early. “My film is based on a book written by professors of Indian Statistical Institute. The data is available in the book. The problem is that people read so little and immediately jump to conclusions. They should wait for the film to release and then make their statements. August 11 happens to the last Friday before August 15. My release date has no connection with Khudiram Bose’s death anniversary,” Sil said.
 
 But Mukhopadhyay believes that releasing such a film glorifying a rapist will give out wrong signals. “It will empower criminals who commit such gruesome crimes. Next, we will have films on the rapists of Nirbhaya and Mumbai nurse Aruna Shanbaug. My letter to the CBFC requests all these issues to be kept in mind while certifying this film,” Mukhopadhyay said.
 
 Director Sohini Dasgupta, who has also written a Facebook post against this film, said she won’t accept Dhananjoy as a protagonist until and unless his innocence is proved in the eyes of the law. “If it’s documentary, a director can show all perspectives in a non-biased way. But the trailer doesn’t suggest this. I won’t accept a feature film that attempts to draw sympathy for a ‘rapist’,” she said.
 
 Advocate Mala Duttaghosh, who is also CBFC member, said, “I have no idea about this film. But legally speaking if any movies maligns the judiciary, we have to refer to Clause 2 (XVIII) of the guidelines in the Cinematograph Act. This clause states that visuals or works which engage in contempt of court or undermines dignity of the court can’t get clearance.”
 
 Meanwhile, many are asking if a film that empathises with rapists is legally allowed to be shown in India. According to advocate Amales Ray, “Neither the provisions of Cinematograph Act 1952 nor the provisions of the Constitution of India explicitly forbids a film-maker from exhibiting the cinema on the basis of the story, gathered from the facts situation of a judgement, delivered either by the honourable High Court or by the honourable Supreme Court. But the exhibition of a film in a public show is subject to the scrutiny by CBFC. The CBFC must appreciate that Article 19(1) (a) of the Indian Constitution guarantees the fundamental right on freedom of speech and expression. Hence, a film-maker has the freedom to express through cinema. The film-maker has a fundamental right to criticise the decision of a court constructively by putting dialogues, but he should not cross the limit to that extent that such criticism amounts to undermining the dignity of the courts. It is a duty of CBFC to play the role of a guard in a pragmatic and realistic manner.”
 
 Sil said it’s unfair to assume that he has maligned the judiciary in ‘Dhananjoy’. “I received the state award for the Best Director this year. SVF, which has produced more than 100 films, is attached to this project. This is the first Amazon exclusive film from Tollywood. Why would we do something that’s illegal?” he asked.
 
