PUNE: Almost three years post the Loksabha elections, BJP's poll campaign for the   is still largely banking on prime minister  . 

 From hoardings, advertisements to speeches, BJP leaders are making sure the PM is mentioned everywhere and are urging voters to give the party the same support. Rivals, NCP and  , have focused their campaign on the backlash of the demonetization move.
 
 BJP has been looking towards a huge upset in the civic polls. Party leaders are determined to push out the 15-year long NCP –led rule in the civic corporation.
 
 More than 10 leaders from the Centre and state governments have campaigned for BJP candidates in past 10 days. Almost all of them tried to convince people that they should elect BJP to ensure Modi’s presence as PM and the BJP’s rule. 
 
 “Modi’s name in the campaign is obvious because he is an inspiration,” said a BJP supporter. He said the Modi’s government selected Pune under the smart city mission and even cleared the metro rail project. “Modi effect is still there and people want him to stay as PM for the next 10 years. BJP is in power at centre and state. Now, people should vote for the party for better coordination and implementation of projects for Pune,” he added. 
 
 NCP and Congress leaders however have rubbished BJP’s claims of the power of the Modi wave. NCP leader Ajit Pawar in his rallies has said that there was no wave and in fact people were disappointed with state and union government’s non-performance. NCP chief   too criticizied Modi’s demonetization move calling it anti people and bad for the economy.
 
 “Our leaders are speaking logically. Demonetization has hurt common people and they will express their anger during the civic elections,” said a NCP leader.
 
 Political observers said that this is for the first time national issues have grabbed space in civic polls. “BJP was able to pull votes on Modi wave in general and assembly elections. Panchayat elections had a mixed response. It will be interesting to see how people will react to Modi’s demonetization move,” they said.
 
 
