

  
 A total of 92.76 lakh people are yet to be covered under Aadhaar in Maharashtra. This figure, however, is based on the projected population of the state in 2015, which stood at 11.89 crore.
 
  
 
 
 A majority of people not covered under Aadhaar lies within the age group of 0-5 years (52,98,075) and 5-18 years (39,78,094). We aim to cover this population by the end of this year.
 
  
 
 We will have a three-tier system to ensure maximum coverage. Plans are afoot to enroll newborns at government hospitals through tablet-based enrolment kits. Periodic camps will also be held for children at anganwadis. Besides, permanent enrolment centres will continue to work in urban and rural areas lagging in the process. 
 
  
 Population in big cities like Mumbai, Mumbai sub-urban, Thane, Pune poses serious challenge in terms of coverage of children under five years of age. Maximum state-owned kits have been allotted to districts lagging in the enrolment process and the situation is being reviewed regularly. Through MahaOnline, 85 kits have been allotted to Mumbai city, 182 to Mumbai suburban and 270 for Pune district.
 
  
 
 The regional office of   at Mumbai has been requested to take up the issue and sort out technical issues as and when they arise.
 
  
 
 The   (MahaIT) has developed a pan-state   and services portal for delivering benefits, subsidies and services to intended beneficiaries. It has been planned to onboard nearly 300+ individual beneficiary schemes of the department on this portal with Aadhaar number as the main proof. This portal will also have appointment-based module for facilitating requests related to Aadhaar enrolment and update. Upon submitting the details, the module will redirect the resident to his/her nearby   along with the appointment date and time.
 
  
 
 Initially, enrolment kits (3,929) were deployed through CSC-SPV to carry out the work across Maharashtra. This decision led to deactivation of all state-owned kits with various enrolment agencies. Meanwhile, UIDAI came out with a revised policy for these centres. Since CSC-SPV failed in activating these kits in time, it was decided to deploy these kits through MahaOnline as an enrolment agency under the state registrar.
 
