KOLHAPUR: Some parts of the city were hit by   on Sunday despite the civic body’s schedule to affect cuts on Monday and Tuesday.

 In some areas of ward E, such as Kadamwadi, Shahu Market and Rajarampuri, the poor supply kept citizens from storing water for the two days when the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has announced water cuts. Angry citizens were told by   officials that they would receive water by Sunday evening, but this did not come true. 
 
 Rajarampuri resident,  , said, “The KMC announced water cut from Monday, but some lanes in our area did not receive water on Sunday morning. We were told by civic officials that ample water will be released to the area by Sunday evening which can be used over the next two days.”
 
 On Saturday, the KMC had announced that it will undertake work on joining the two main lines of the   and one from the Shinganapur Pumping Station at  . It had announced that water supply to wards A, B and E will be cut for two days. 
 
  The civic body had also assured citizens of ample water to be released to affected areas on Sunday morning. However, citizens did not get adequate response from the KMC as most of the divisional ward-level offices were closed on Sunday. 
 
 Local corporators had to make several calls to the officers to find why the water was not being released on Sunday morning. According to a KMC official, the water tanks which were filled on Saturday evening to supply water on Sunday morning were emptied because of heavy demand from some areas. This forced the KMC to resort to refilling the tanks which more time and so the water supply to some areas could not take place on Sunday morning.
 
 S K Kulkarni, KMC’s chief hydraulic engineer, said, “There may be some technical issues involved if water was not supplied. I will ensure that sufficient water will be provided for storage purposes for two days before actual water cuts begin from Monday morning. The work is important to ensure that the ward E, the largest among the five city wards, will start getting adequate water supply. At present, water is beign distributed to other areas as the one old pipeline is used for the city. The new pipeline will now help release water to both the   junction and Rajarampuri junction.”
 
 Corporators have demanded more water tankers in areas facing frequent water cuts. The KMC has eight water tankers at present. A civic official said the number of water tankers is sufficient, but there is a need to increase the efficiency in managing the trips.
 
