BENGALURU: Efforts to fish out the body of a 30-year-old site supervisor who was washed away in a storm water drain in northwest Bengaluru during Saturday's heavy rain, remained unsuccessful on Sunday.Six earth movers, 50 firefighters and a unit of the   (SDRF) scoured a 6km stretch of the drain during the day, but the operation was called off around 7pm. The search is expected to resume on Monday .

 Shanta Kumar, the supervisor at a site where a retaining wall for a storm water drain was being constructed at  , near  , off Mahalakshmi Layout, was seated in an earthmover used for removing debris, late Saturday evening.
 
 Kumar was not operating the earthmover but was engaged in keeping the floodlights on as work had dragged on into the last day of the week.
 
 Around 8.30pm, it began to rain and as it became heavier, the workers came out of the storm water drain but Kumar stayed back in the vehicle.
 
 In a matter of seconds, the water level in the drain began to rise. Locals said a huge volume of rainwater gushed into the storm water drain at a height of at least 6feet, locals said.
 
 Seeing the water level rise, Kumar tried to get out of the earthmover but the vehicle tilted, throwing him into the water. Though some locals tried to save him, he was washed away . Attempts to find him began on Saturday night, but lack of visibility and per sistent rain forced the teams to call off the operation in the early hours.
 
 On Sunday , the operation was resumed early in the morning with workers comb ing the drain. “We started from the location where he had fallen into the water, while four other teams were formed to look into other parts of the drain. We managed to cover over 9km during the day,“ said a senior fire department official.
 
 One of the teams was dispatched to Jnanabharati campus of   in Nag arabhavi where a bund is built across the drain, even as the search continued along the length of the storm water drain.
 
 “The drain doesn't have a clear flow of water because of garbage and other debris. As there was a chance of the body being stuck in it, we had to sift through it as well,“ the officer added.
 
 NETAS, OFFICIALS VISIT SITE
 
 Bengaluru development minister KJ George, BBMP commissioner   and mayor G Padmavathi were among the visitors to the site.At the search site, George said work is in progress.Asked about action against the officials responsible, he said the focus remains on the recovery of the body and further action will be taken following that.
 
