PATNA:   are   for the next few days as the   have claimed their territory in the region from Sunday.

 According to the weatherman, the dominance of dry westerly winds will push the mercury upwards over the next two- three days. Being dry, the westerlies allow solar rays to directly penetrate the lower level of atmosphere, pushing the maximum temperature up.
 
 Any possibility of rainfall over the next one week is ruled out. A slight respite is expected around Thursday when moist easterly winds are likely to blow in the region. The meteorological department has also issued a forecast of thundershower in Patna on Thursday.
 
 “Following the departure of western disturbance, which led to thundersquall and hailstorm at several places in the state in the last week, westerly winds have once again started blowing. The dominance of dry westerly winds has led to removal of moisture from the atmosphere and, as such, the maximum temperature will rise while the relative humidity level will drop,” said  , officiating director of Patna the Meteorological Centre.
 
 He said the maximum temperature in Patna would remain one or two notches above normal over the next two-three days.
 
 Though the Met office has forecast surge in temperature, heatwave conditions have been ruled out for the next one week. “Heatwave conditions prevail when maximum temperature is 40 degrees Celsius or higher, translating into 4.5 degrees or more above normal around this time of the year. However, such conditions are unlikely anywhere in the state,” said another weather expert.
 
 Bihar and most parts of the country are expected to experience intense and extended summer this time. As per the latest report of India Meteorological Department (IMD), maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to be higher than normal by 0.5-1 degree C in eastern India, including Bihar, over the next three months. 
 
 Besides, normal to above-normal heatwave conditions are expected in the region this summer. The average mean temperature too is expected to be 0.5-1 degree C above normal in the three summer months.
 
 
