BHOPAL: With both BJP and Congress engaged in war of words over alleged ‘misbehaviour’ with   Bala Bachchan during chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s Saturday rally in Barwani, the issue refuses to die down any time soon. 

 The BJP has decided to lodge an official complaint with the police against Bachchan for alleged misconduct with the CM and creating “ruckus” at the function, the party has made it clear that it is in no mood to give up. The BJP will submit a memorandum to director general of police (DGP) regarding Bachchan’ ‘misbehaviour’.
 
 Congress and BJP had come face to face in Barwani after senior Congress leader was dropped from the list of speakers during state-level tribal conference organised by the state government. When Bachchan was not invited to address the gathering, he rushed to the stage when the chief minister was speaking and demanded that he be allowed to speak first.
 
 When BJP leaders, including MP   tried to stop him, leaders of both parties manhandled and pushed each other on the stage. This made Chouhan to intervene and he allowed Bachchan to speak. 
 
 “It was a planned act. But, Congress will thwart every such move,” Bachchan said after the incident.
 
 Chouhan, however, said Bachchan was making an issue out of a non-issue to become Leader of Opposition. “If Bachchan wanted to address the function in Barwani, he could have approached me before my speech. However, he deliberately got up when I was speaking and created a ruckus,” he said. 
 
 “BJP will officially lodge a complaint to the police on the issue,” said BJP state vice-president Vijesh Lunawat.
 
 State Congress president Arun Yadav has written a strong letter to   Speaker   asking her to take punitive action against BJP MP from Khargone seat Subhash Patel for publicly heckling acting leader of Opposition Bala Bachchan. In his letter, Yadav has asked Mahajan to ask for an explanation from Patel about his misbehaviour with the Congress leader of Opposition in Barwani on Saturday and take appropriate action so that he does not repeat such an incident again.
 
