HYDERABAD: Over 350 micro, small and medium enterprises are likely to set up projects in the first phase of the proposed   on the outskirts of Hyderabad, including about 120 big players. The government will allot land for pharma companies soon as the master plan for 12,500-acre Pharma City is expected to be ready by the end of January.

 A conceptual plan for the Telangana government's ambitious Pharma City project, proposed at Mucherla in  , has already been prepared by Singapore-based  . Finer details of the master plan are being readied through a  , in which photographs are used to map and ascertain measurements and other details.
 
 "The tentative   for the companies will begin from next month and will be completed by April 2017. But actual construction will start only after getting environmental clearance from the Ministry of Environment and Forests," principal secretary (industries) Arvind Kumar told TOI.
 
 While some pharma majors have sought as much as 200 to 300 acres for their firms, other smaller industries have asked for only 1,000 square metres.
 
 The government will allot the land based on investment and category of applicants. Many of the companies have approached the industries department through Bulk Drug Manufacturers Associations and other organisations, Kumar said.
 
 Of the total 12,500 acres, Phase I of Pharma City will come up on 6,000 acres for which land acquisition has been completed by Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) with about Rs740 crore being spent both for the Pharma City and another manufacturing zone at Zaheerabad. While the   has already been given National Investment Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) status, the Pharma City has received in-principle approval.
 
 To speed up the project, the government has formed a special purpose vehicle 'Hyderabad Pharma City Limited' to oversee the project.
 
 Officials said top priority is being given to meet costs under the heads of physical and environmental protection as well as civil infrastructure at the Pharma City. These are expected to cost about Rs10,000 crore. "Road networks will be improved for better connectivity, especially to the Outer Ring Road, the proposed Regional Ring Road along with multi-modal transit system (MMTS). An air strip will also be developed at the Pharma City," EV Narasimha Reddy, managing director of TSIIC said.
 
 Since Telangana has no sea ports, the industries department has proposed a dry port and multi-modal logistic port at Jadcherla, about 30 to 40 km from Pharma City . TSI IC officials claim that they have been getting inquiries from companies across the world for setting up their units at the Pharma City.
 
 "The production cost of pharma products in India is about 30% less than the US and it is 50% less in cases where generic drugs are being developed. Owing to the low costs, multi-national companies are making a beeline to Pharma City ," a senior official of TSIIC said.
 
