NEW DELHI: “There can't be any worse kind of human rights violation,“ an angry   bench had lashed out at the Delhi government in 2012, moved by the deplorable conditions in which mentally challenged inmates lived at  . “Are they cattle? You keep them like animals,“ the bench had lamented.

 The alarming picture now drawn by   shows that “gross violation of human rights“ is an ongoing horror story at the home, where the mentally challenged live in unhygienic conditions and women inmates walk without clothes in the corridors.   attracted judicial attention as early as 1998 when Juvenile Welfare Board took suo motu notice of five deaths on a single day at the facility run by Delhi government.
 
 In an emotional observation, JWB chairman B S Gahlaut had pointed out how “it is a peculiar case where there is no petitioner visible and hence no respondents and only images of mentally retarded children are here before the board, staring at us as if they want to say something but mind being impaired (are) unable to do so. Therefore, it has become expedite and imperative for us to do justice to these images.“
 
 After an inspection of the home, Gahlaut minced no words in taking the then state government to task. The visit, he wrote, left him feeling “humiliated that in free India, such exploitation of this magnitude is being perpetuated by no less a person than my own government who appointed me as chairman of JWB which should act as a guardian of all the neglected children in the city of Delhi under the Act.“
 
 Gahlaut had noticed the same endemic problems shortage of resources and infrastructure, poorly paid and demotivated support staff and overcrowding.
 
 The chairman had recorded in his order that he found one house aunty (keeper) was looking after around 15 mentally retarded juveniles and had to work single-handedly for six days at a stretch before she could get a day's rest. A house aunty is required to cook food for the juveniles, wash their clothes, clean their toilets, give them a bath, make their bed, keep an eye on them to prevent them from inflicting injury on themselves and do other odd jobs, round the clock. He noted that this was not humanly possible, and for doing this job, she was paid Rs 1,000 a month! Due to JWB's efforts, Asha Kiran hiked its staff 's salary and roped in social workers.
 
 It was not until 2011that Delhi High Court stepped in, shocked at the custodial death of mentally challenged inmates inside the home. It summoned the director of Asha Kiran and demanded answers. Acting on a letter, the court initiated a PIL and asked three lawyers --Colin Gonsalves, Pankaj Sinha and Anant Kumar Asthana -to visit the home for an inspection.
 
 Their findings dismayed the court. The commitee said the home was not only congested but also short-staffed with just three house aunties for every 40 inmates, most of whom had severe mental debility . The lawyers revealed gross mismanagement with shortage of staff and doctors, poorly paid employees and overcrowding.
 
 A year later in 2012, HC let go of the issue on an undertaking by the state government that it would improve conditions at the home by bringing in experts, building more infrastructure, installing CCTVs for better surveillance and setting up a governing council.
 
 The council was given full powers to take decisions in this regard.
 
 Asha Kiran Home last figured in Supreme Court when petitioner Reena Banerjee highlighted issues like inadequate medical treatment, medical services and access to doctors; skewed ratio of staff to look after the inmates; overcrowding; poor distribution and consumption of food, clothing, bedding and other items; and abuses heaped on the mentally challenged persons, particularly women residents.
 
