NAGPUR:   (earlier NMRCL) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for leasing six coaches from Chennai Metro. The coaches will be delivered in May and the lease period is of two years. 

 A source in Mahametro said that the agency had earlier decided to lease the coaches from Hyderabad Metro but as it demanded very high charges, Mahametro decided to approach Chennai. The rent of Chennai Metro is reasonable but the exact amount is yet to be fixed. “The maintenance of the Chennai Metro coaches will be done by Alstom,” he added.
 
 The six coaches will be used for commercial operations too as   (CRRC), which is supposed to provide 69 coaches for Nagpur Metro, will not be able to deliver the first lot before April 2019. The source said that work on delivery of these coaches was proceeding as per schedule.
 
 The coaches are essential for Nagpur Metro’s trial scheduled in the second half of this year. “The trial run will be undertaken in the 5.6km long at grade (ground level) section. The section’s construction is nearing completion and other requirements are in the process of being met,” he added.
 
 According to the source, the earthwork of the at grade section was ready and gravel was being put in. “The two viaducts in the at grade section are ready. Track laying is complete up to 400 metres. We have also started erecting the overhead electrical (OHE) poles for the traction system. Work order for the signalling system has also been placed,” he said.
 
 There are four stations in the at grade section - Khapri, New Airport, Airport and Airport South. The last one is a temporary station. “The source said that work on all the four stations was progressing at a fast pace,” the source further said.
 
 Work on two other Metro stretches is also going ahead smoothly. Construction of Ujjwal Nagar, Jaiprakash Nagar and Rahate Colony stations on Airport-Sitabuldi stretch and Rani Jhansi Square, Institute of Engineers, Wasudeo Nagar, Bansi Nagar and   on Hingna depot-Sitabuldi stretch is as per schedule. “Construction of Zero Mile station has started recently,” the source added.
 
 “Work on 142 piers near Hingna depot is going on. We have completed five out of eight piers near Ramjhula,” he further said.
 
 Meanwhile, Mahametro has set up a war room in its Civil Lines office to monitor the Nagpur Metro project using five dimensional building information management (5D BIM) software. Large number of staffers have been deployed to keep a tab on various works.
 
 
