SHILLONG: Lajong players were greeted with chants of "Lajong bridge is falling down!" by   supporters when the Meghalaya club went down 2-1 in the Round 3   fixture. But 15 rounds later, as the teams meet again on Sunday, this time on Lajong's home turf, the stakes in this northeast derby have hit the roof.

 While   FC are on the verge of becoming the first club from the northeast to win the I-League crown, neighbours Shillong Lajong are waiting to make up for the humiliating away defeat and end on a high in what has already been their best season in the league. In fact, with 95% northeasterners in their squad, Lajong are no less a success story.
 
 But while the visitors need just a draw to finish their dream season as champions, fifth-placed Lajong need a victory of their own and a Bengaluru FC defeat to meet their target of finishing in the top four. In fact, a loss could also suffice Aizawl's title aspirations if  , three points behind the leaders, draw or lose their tie against Chennai City FC in Kolkata.
 
 All eyes may be on the fixture at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium here but it is not going to be an easy match for the Aizawl club. They will be a depleted lot on the field with captain Alfred Jaryan, the defensive midfielder, and right back Ashutosh Mehta missing the match due to suspension. The importance of these players for the team is reflected in the fact that Jaryan has played all of Aizawl's 17 matches this season while Mehta has missed just one, with fever.
 
 There could, in fact, be more bad news for coach Khalid Jamil as centre-half Kingsley Obunneme injured himself during Saturday's practice. While Jamil said, they would take the final call on the Nigerian's condition at the last moment, the former India midfielder spoke of giving starts to some young and new players in place of the suspended duo. A lot will rest on the shoulders of the impressive Mahmoud al Amna in the midfield and right-winger Brandon Vanlalremdika to take the fight to the hosts.
 
 Lajong, on the other hand, have no injury or suspension woes ahead of the final fixture. Coach Thangboi Singto will have his full squad for selection. The fact that Jaryan is out of the tie will boost the confidence of the league's top-scorer Aser Dipanda Dicka. A couple of inexperienced faces in the Aizawl midfield may help Isaac Valmalsawma and Yuta Kinowaki in creating opportunities up front for the home team.
 
 What Singto and his wards will have to make sure is that their young defence does not add to the 22 goals they have already conceded this season. They would, hence, need to find a way to stop the movement of Aizawl's Ivorian striker Kano Bayi, who has scored five goals so far. But a derby as important as the one on Sunday will have a lot of ambience for the players to go out for victory.
 
