NAGPUR: Absence of scientific base in traditional healing methods has led to a perception that its practitioners are quacks. Starting courses in 100 universities on pilot basis, appointing ‘vaids’ as teachers and allowing clinical trials will not only help keep the tradition alive but also give it recognition.

 This was proposed by experts such as former director of National Institute of Nutrition-ICMR B Sesikeran and member secretary of   during a national conference at   at   on Saturday.
 
 Over 1,000 traditional healers from across the country, experts, academicians and students attended the conference jointly organized by Nagpur University’s department of pharmaceutical sciences and state biodiversity board. Community College director AN Radha, HoD Jasmine Avari, convener PR Itankar and others were present.
 
 The traditional community health practitioners, who took part in the conference, have already initiated a massive rally that will culminate at New Delhi to press for recognition of their practice.
 
 “Traditional healing must be promoted by traditional universities. Some colleges must start short term courses so that the ancient science is passed on to a new generation which didn’t get it from their parents. The government can identify some good tradition healers and make them consultants or teachers in public universities,” Jayakumar said.
 
 Sesikeran said, “People have faith in individual healers and not the entire community. In villages, they are affordable and easy to reach. In urban set-up, their acceptance is low because traditional healers don’t have a scientific base like the modern medicine. They can tell us certain herbs will heal but how and why they can’t tell.”
 
 Jayakumar added that if the young generation is taught this method then they can do research on medicinal plants and come up with explanation regarding the remedial properties.
 
 Sesikaran said in many cases one plant or herbs cures several diseases. “But, diseases differ in characteristics from person to person. So in such cases traditional therapy may or may not work. When it works, the healer must have answer as to why it cured a disease,” he said.
 
 Both, agreed that one by one all traditional therapies must be documented since these are over thousands of years old and helped people when modern medicine was yet to be developed.
 
 Sesikaran suggested that the government must start clinical trails of traditional medicine. “It must be done on an equally distributed population and various diseases,” he said.
 
 Jayakumar said though the ‘vaids’ have been serving society over the centuries, they have been wrongly labelled as ‘quacks’. “The practitioners of modern medicine call them quacks. This is because they want to confuse the people.”
 
