Ambala: The Ambala police have got their hands on an important lead in the case of abandonment of a one-day-old premature boy, who was found lying near the court complex in Ambala on Wednesday morning.

 The police have explored the CCTV footage of the court complex and have found a woman accompanied by a small girl, who left the now-two-day-old baby boy to his fate near the court complex. However, the police are yet to know the identity of the woman and are taking help from the social media to nab the culprits. They have also distribution of posters of the woman from the CCTV footage. 
 
 The SHO Ambala City also informed that the police would soon declare a reward for the person who would get the details of the accused. The CCTV footage shows a woman along with a small girl carrying the infant clearly. In the footage, it was seen that the woman reaches the complex at 5.15 am and first asks the small girl to leave the baby in a lawyer’s chamber. First, the small girl leaves him there but then again picks the baby up and keeps the infant further away in the complex.
 
 Nonetheless, the woman again asks her to bring back the infant and sits on a nearby bench. Both the woman and the small girl along with the baby sit on the bench for some time, discuss something and then again leave the child from where he was first left, and then flee from the court complex.
 
 It was informed that all this happened in a time span of 20-25 minutes. The infant was saved by an advocate, Dalveer Singh, who was on his morning walk. The child is kept under the supervision of child Specialist of the Ambala City Civil Hospital Dr Jaspal.
 
 The Ambala City police station lodged a case against the unknown women on the complaint of advocate Dalveer Singh.
 
 Talking to TOI, the Ambala City Police Station SHO Ajit Singh said that the District Bar Association has handed over the CCTV footage to the police.
 
 “The footage recovered from the CCTV was very clear but the police were not able to identify the woman, following which the police have decided to get help from the social media. The police would also declare a reward for identifying the woman soon,” SHO Ajit Singh said.
 
 
