The title and first look of Rajinikanth’s next movie with Ranjith is out and the teaser of Ajith’s Vivegam has been making waves. The news of   teaming up with AR Murugadoss is doing the rounds and   is expected to roar with Saamy 2.   might be working again with his lucky mascot Hari and   will be seen again under Ponram’s direction. Are our stars repeating the directors keeping the minimum-guarantee output in mind? The expectations of their respective fans are sky-high when they keep uniting with filmmakers with whom they have had a successful outing in the past. Having said that, there are also fans who believe that their idols should try teaming up with new directors. Check out a few upcoming films where our stars stick to the tried and tested!

 
 
 For the star who has been entertaining millions of his theevira rasigars with mass entertainers, Kabali stands out, thanks to its different genre and the way the Superstar was presented. When his next was announced, where he is teaming again with director Pa Ranjith, the fans know what to expect from it. Titled Kaala, it has made Rajini fans rejoice as they can’t hold the excitement of watching their Thalaivar in yet another unique avatar. They also hope that, this time, the film will be loaded with more massy elements to satisfy them. It has to be noted that Rajini also has 2.0 under Shankar’s direction, the biggest combo of Kollywood which gave birth to Sivaji and Enthiran, the highest grossers of 2007 and 2010 respectively.
 
 
 
 After directing Ajith in Veeram and Vedalam, Siruthai Siva has become a darling of Ajith fans. They are eagerly waiting the release of Vivegam, which is expected to hit the screens in August. Music director Anirudh has once again joined the duo in this action entertainer. However, there are rumours doing the rounds that the actor is keen to work with Siva again. Though   admirers should be over the moon if the project materialises, there are quite a fair number of movie buffs who would like Ajith to join hands with a debutante director or someone whom the actor hasn’t worked with.
 
 
 
 With Bairavaa failing to reach the humongous expectations set by his fans and movie buffs, Vijay is currently working on the yet-to-be-titled film, which has Atlee at the helm. Vijay’s combination with Atlee was proved successful with Theri last year. This time, the duo has retained Samantha, apart from Kajal Aggarwal and Nithya Menen who are also playing the female leads. The icing on the cake is the inclusion of AR Rahman in the crew as the music director. Fans are expecting nothing less than a blockbuster as they have full hopes pinned on Atlee’s talent in presenting Ilayathalapathy in style. It is also heard that Vijay might team up with AR Murugadoss soon, with whom he delivered Thuppakki and Kaththi, two of the biggest hits of his career.
 
 
 After experimenting a lot with his physique, appearances, diverse characters and films of varied genres, the versatile actor is now all set to team up with Hari for Saamy 2. Though Iru Mugan was a relief for his admirers after a disappointing 10 Endrathukulla, his fans and others alike believe that what Vikram needs is a solid blockbuster. And what better way than resorting to a sequel as it is the trend now. Fans are ecstatic to witness the performance of Aarusamy, once again, after a decade-and-a-half. Interestingly, it was Vikram’s I with Shankar, where they teamed up after 10 years that made movie-goers throng the halls after a string of misses in the actor’s career.
 
 
 Hari had said sometime back that he would be doing another film with Suriya in the Singam franchise. However, the director also confirmed that the two, whose partnership dates back to more than a decade, will collaborate on a fresh subject once they complete their respective assignments. Singam 2, which released in 2013, proved to be successful after an unsatisfying Maattrraan for Suriya, and the actor-director duo tried their luck again with Si3, after the unimpressive performances of Anjaan, Masss and 24. Suriya is currently busy with Thaana Serndha Kootam while Hari has Saamy 2 in his kitty.
 
 
 
 The actor who has become a ‘reliable product’ in the market is currently busy with Mohan Raja’s Velaikkaran. He also has a project with Ponram with whom he worked earlier in Varuthapadatha Valibar Sangam and Rajini Murugan — two films which were instrumental in his career. While the former, a comic caper, set against a village backdrop helped him gain hold among the masses, the latter made him an established hero, winning audience from all sections. Sivakarthikeyan’s next with Ponram, in which he will be seen romancing Samantha, is expected to be a game changer for the actor as the director is someone who knows his strengths and plays to the gallery.
 
 
