Nagpur: The busy patch between   and Sawarkar Nagar Square— part of inner ring road — has become a death trap. Reason: the firm entrusted to concretize the road has ignored the junctions while carrying out the work.

 “These places are very dangerous,” stated a traffic cop deployed at  . All seven junctions on the busy stretch have turned into killer zones due to incomplete work. Many   have sustained serious injuries and a two-wheeler rider lost his life in February due to incomplete work near Narendra Nagar.
 
 Though the PWD had started concretization of 42-km Inner Ring Road in December 2015, the work is going on at a snail’s pace, causing great inconvenience to motorists. The work has been given to RPS Infraprojects Pvt Limited and the firm sub-contracted the work to a local contractor Pankaj Asthankar.
 
 On Wednesday, TOI found the contractor had left all major junctions untouched even though he had dug up the tar roads. Due to concretization, height of the road has been raised considerably and there is big difference in level between them and portions left incomplete. The non-functioning of traffic signals at most of these junctions only add to the woes.
 
 Despite repeated reminders from city traffic police, the contractor has ignored work at junctions. The contractor has even ignored terms of contract while carrying out the work, alleged traffic police. 
 
 As per tender condition, the contractor should complete one side including traffic junctions and then proceed further. But he has left the junctions incomplete and the traffic police seem helpless. The same contractor has been booked earlier by Ajni police for culpable homicide. On February 24, two-wheeler being ridden by one Ashish Raut, 32, skidded on Narendra Nagar ring road between   and  . He succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment at Orange City Hospital.
 
 The Ajni police booked contractor Asthankar under section 304 (A) of IPC. However, the police neither arrested him nor state PWD has initiated any action against the contractor. Sources said Asthankar is a close relative of a heavy weight politician, who is a minister in Devendra Fadnavis government in Maharashtra, so both PWD and city police were ignoring the violations.
 
 PWD executive engineer Naresh Wadetwar admitted the flaw in works and assured to get the concretization of junctions done on a war footing.
 
 
