Sir   and Ruskin Bond lead a starry line-up of 10 authors for Write India Season 2, which launches today. With the inclusion of one of the world's most popular thriller writers and India's beloved fabulist from the hills, the country's largest search for the next generation of authors is once again set to attract the best writing talent in India. Noted authors joining the Write India Season 2 panel with Archer and Bond are Sudha Murty, Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni,  , Shobhaa De, Manu Joseph, Namita Gokhale, Nikita Singh, and  . Each of these authors will write a passage to in spire participants, who will then weave the same into their short stories. The genre and tenor of the story will be determined by rules laid down by mentor authors.

  The short stories will be curated by the Write India Team and final selections for top 10 made in consultation with the celebrity authors. The top winners of the short story contest will be felicitated and mentored at a workshop by celebrity authors.
 
 Jeffrey Archer, swept by the overwhelming response, tweeted, “Delighted to be part of this #TOIWriteIndia season. Wishing you all the best for this amazing competition. Go out and score a century!”
 
 
 
 
  Ruskin Bond, amazed at the number of participants for the first Write India edition said, “It's interesting to know there are thousands of would be writers, or young people who could be doing other things, who do write short stories or take part in these story competitions. It's a healthy sign. It means if they are writing stories they would also be reading them.”
 
 Launched last year with 11 leading commercial authors including Chetan Bhagat and   Write India gained unprecedented success in the very first year with more than a lakh registrations resulting in our receiving 25,000 short stories over the course of 11 months. Other authors who enthusiastically participated in the first edition of Write India -encouraging, evaluating and mentoring contestants ­ were Ashwin Sanghi, Ravi Subramanian, Durjoy Dutta,  , Tuhin Sinha,  , Madhuri Baner jee, Jaishree Misra and  . Of the 111 winners selected by these authors, 33 have since been printed, while many others are in the process of being published.
 
 Chetan Bhagat sends a message of encouragement for Season 2, “Here's wishing the new generation of storytellers all the best for the contest and may they come up with some amazing stories!” Amish Tripathi says, “I was delighted to be a part of the introductory season of Write India. It is a wonderful initiative to encourage the art of writing in our country. I was also impressed by the quality of entries presented to me. I wish the team all success for the 2nd season too.” 
 
 Write India launches Season 2 today with Anand Neelakantan, the writer of the Bahubali trilogy , as Author of the Month for July .His passage can be found on the Write India website.
 
 
  
 
 
