DEHRADUN: The killing and eating of a   in   of   on Thursday night has raised fears among experts that a second   is active in the area.
 
  The partially eaten body of Anand Singh was found on Friday morning. This was the fourth human killing in the last seven months, and 12th in three years in a 15km area of the range, near Nepali Farm.
  
  The theory so far had been that a single leopard, a species that ranges over an area of 20-25 km, was responsible, had been believed by forest officials. This theory has been dismissed by the report submitted by Wildlife Institute of India (WII) to Rajaji officials on Friday. The report was based on an analysis of the scat of another leopard tranquilised when found prowling near the spot where a 35-year-old man was killed and eaten on May 3.
  
  WII scientist Bivash Pandav has confirmed the presence of human remains in the scat of that leopard. The animal was found to be old with worn-out nails and canines. It has been kept in Chidiyapur Rescue Centre at Haridwar.
  
  Even after its capture, another human was killed. Pandav said that it shows that more than one man-eating leopard is active in the area. The region of Motichur is close to the busy   74.
  
  Sanatan Sonkar, director of Rajaji said, “Despite installing several sign boards warning of elephant and leopard presence, people still sit on the small bridges built on the border of the road towards the forest to consume liquor, or enter the forest to relieve themselves, and get attacked. Local women from nearby villages too enter the forest to collect fodder and ignore warnings by forest officials.”
  
  In the case of the latest victim, he too was attacked and dragged from the bridge inside the forest. After his family complained that he was missing, a search was launched and his remains were found.
  
  "We have installed around 20 camera traps in the area and identified a 12-year-old male, occasionally seen. A few weeks ago, a leopardess had got trapped in a cage but we found that it had no signs of being a man-eater. So we released it,” said Sonker.
  
  Vidya Athreya, leopard expert, said, “The established theories about one male leopard controlling a territory, or a single man-eating leopard in a particular area, are unfounded, given various case studies.”
  
  She suggested that the forest department could take the help of WII to conduct a short study of three-four days duration, to analyse the pattern of the killings, which could help identify the man-eating leopard.
  
  Pandav has asked the director of Rajaji to provide samples of different leopard scat to WII for analysis of human tissue content which would help them to know the approximate number of man-eating leopard in the area.
