VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizagites are fuming as several merchants have silently resorted to levying transaction charges on debit and credit card purchases.

 On their part, banks made it clear that they were not levying any transaction charges. Andhra Bank deputy general manager B   said they were not collecting any kind of charges from the POS machine users including customers and merchants. “If any charges are collected, it is not related to the banks,” she clarified.
 
 Turaga Venkata Hanumantha Rao, an advocate from Vizag, said, “It is not right on the part of the government to reintroducing service charges for customers who opt for transactions through debit or credit cards. This will force many card users like me to avoid cashless transactions. I request the government to ensure that no service charges are applicable on digital payments so that many people can easily come forward to support the government’s objective of a cashless economy.”
 
 A student of Gitam University, P Mahesh said many merchants including jewellery shop owners at Kurupam market, hotels and restaurants reject payments through cards, while some allow card payments with an additional charge up to 5%. 
 
 “The government should constitute a special team to check the progress of digital transactions in the ground level. Otherwise, they may not reach its goal of cashless transactions ever,” Mahesh added.
 
 According to sources, some merchants have also been collecting extra charges as rent amount for the POS machines and infrastructure facilities they provide to the customers.
 
 Bank officials said the merchants either purchase the POS machines or take them on lease. The machines cost anything between Rs 14,000 and Rs 20,000 depending on the quality and category. There are three type of makes — Chinese, German and Japanese. Again, there are four sub-categories — GPS enabled, non GPS, paper-based and non paper-based machines. 
 
 “We were allowed to get the amount spent on purchasing the machines from the customers in the name of card charges. We collect 0.75% to 1% on transactions by our customers,” said a merchant who uses a POS machine provided by Axis Bank.
 
 Speaking to TOI, collector Pravin Kumar said, “To overcome this issue, we are going to spread awareness about the Aadhaar-based mobile payment application BHIM ( ) . This will make transactions easy.”
 
