BENGALURU: Two incidents where   have prompted authorioties at   (BBP) to thik about banning jeep safari in the park.

  told TOI they may replace small vehicles with buses to ensure safety to both  .
 
 Santosh said he is planning to send a related proposal to the state government. “We at the park are having a discussion on this. We have eight small vehicles like jeep, Toyota Innova and Mahindra Xylo. Replacing them with buses will ensure no animal attempts to climb on the vehicles. However, we are yet to take a final call on this,” he added. 
 
 Santosh also said that on Wednesday he held a session with drivers of the safari vehicles and told them to be careful and follow wildlife norms during safari rounds. “We have warned them of strict action in case of threat to visitors,” he added.
 
 The park, at present, has multiple options for visitors when it comes to safaris. The Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) runs about 20 buses wherein passengers are charged Rs 260 (for adults) and Rs 130 (for children) per trip. 
 
 The BBP also runs a luxury safari in an AC bus, which costs Rs 500 for adults and Rs 300 for kids. This apart, they have a jeep service that comes for a higher rate (between Rs 2,500 to Rs 4,000 per person), depending on the seats occupied per trip, and a car service (Xylo and Toyota Innova AC car), which costs Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 per trip. This also includes visits to the zoo and butterfly park.
 
 
 
 
 Staff associated with the park, however, say that banning jeep/car safari will result in huge revenue loss. “Park authorities should install strong mesh and other safety features in the smaller vehicles. Removing them will result in loss of about RS 5 crore to the park coffers. Just because one driver of a safari vehicle has committed a mistake, everyone shouldn’t be punished. There are many visitors who wish to go in private vehicles than take the normal bus,” said a staff member on condition of anonymity.
 
 Tuesday’s lion attack incident is the second one in recent times. The same vehicle was attacked in September last.
 
 
 
 The Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP), spread over 731 hectares, is located about 22 km from the city. It’s a major attraction for Bengalureans as well as tourists. On an average, about 1,000 visitors come to the park on weekdays; on weekends, the number doubles. The park houses more than 1,200 animals and birds of different species. 
 
