Chennai:   has been purchasing nearly 500MW from the energy exchange every day for the last week or so to meet the increasing demand and save on cost. Instead of negotiating with private companies, Tangedco has opted to shop for power in the exchange as it is available for less than Rs 4 per unit.

 Tangedco places the order with the exchange, based on expected demand for the following day. Due to availability of inter-state transmission lines, Tamil Nadu is able to get power from any part of the country easily and thus save on power purchase cost. 
 
 “We will have to bid for power in the exchange on a daily basis and based on the demand forecast, we make the bid in the exchange where the average cost is Rs 2.77 to Rs 3 per unit. We also have to pay for wheeling charges to bring power to our grid,” said a senior Tangedco official. The total cost of power thus purchased works out to less than Rs 4 per unit. 
 
 Tangedco is purchasing from the exchange as the two 1000 MW-units of   Nuclear Power Reactor have been shut down for repairs. TN gets a total of 1000MW from both units. “We decided to bid for power in the exchange instead of purchasing power from private companies for more than Rs 5 per unit,” said the official. 
 
 Soon after the bids, power is made available to Tangedco from private companies in Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. “Power to Tangedco is being wheeled from Gayatri Power Company and Sembcorp India Power in Andhra Pradesh and another private company in Odisha,” he said. 
 
 Due to power available at a lower cost, Tangedco’s average power purchase cost has come down in the last few months to Rs 3.75 per unit. “This is the lowest cost of power purchased. Tangedco is having second thoughts now about purchasing power from Central thermal units as well as private power companies,” said the official. 
 
 In the exchange, members bid for power between 10am and noon daily. “Power is available in the exchange round-the-clock and sitting in Chennai, one can log in to our website and start bidding,” Electricity Exchange business development director Rajesh Kumar Mediratta told TOI. 
 
 “For Tangedco the cost of power will depend on availability of transmission line and the congestion cost,” said Mediratta. 
 
 
