PUNE: While Class XI admissions at aided junior colleges for in-house and management quota are already over, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) has questioned the basis on which the admissions have taken place, especially when the government has not yet declared the fee structure for this year.

 The government decides the fee to be charged in aided divisions of a college without which admissions cannot be confirmed to students. Education department officials have said that the colleges have been told to maintain last year’s fees until the committee formed to regulate the junior college fees decides on a completely new fee structure.
 
 “The fee for all aided colleges is decided by the state government which is around Rs 330 for a year. But the colleges don’t follow this and charge Rs 6,000-7,000 per student under various categories such as development fee, extra-curricular activities fee, among others. We had protested against this practice last year too. 
 
 The government had then instituted a committee under the  , which was supposed to declare the fee for this year,” said  , member of SYSCOM, the NGO that has lodged a protest.
 
 The fee of about Rs 330 per year was decided about four decades ago and the same was even printed in the information booklet till last year but if the colleges needed to revise it, they should have gone to the government rather than increasing it on their own, the NGO added.
 
 Bafna further said that while the first round of admission is yet to take place, the in-house quota admissions are already over, despite there being no declaration of fee from the government. 
 
 “On what basis have the admissions taken place? To confirm your admission, full fee has to be taken from the students. In their race to get into a good college, students don’t bother about fees and renowned institutions have been taking advantage of them by increasing the fees,” said Bafna.
 
 A total of 10,231 seats have been filled in the quota round and the remaining seats will not be merged into the general rounds. The students who have confirmed their admissions in   will not be allowed to take part in any of the general rounds. The Deputy director of education for Pune division   said, “The new fee has not been declared and hence we have asked all colleges to go by the old fee. The colleges cannot increase the fee and if they do, strict action will be taken against them.” 
 
 Temkar added, “The new committee will take some time to formulate the new fee which may be same for all colleges. Till now, all aided colleges have been charging fees as per the facilities provided by them.”
 
