PUNE: The elected members of the   (PCB) are at odds with its top officials over the issue of   hike for the current assessment period.

 In a board session on Tuesday, the elected members demanded no tax hike while the top brass countered the idea saying it was part of the   (ARV) norms.
 
 PCB carries out a triennial assessment of ARV, with property tax subsequently calculated off this amount.
 
 The Cantonments Act of 2006 provides discretionary powers to the board’s chief executive officer, in some cases, to the board president to fix ARV for any given property.
 
 The current assessment that had been delayed for many months in 2016 is nearing completion. The top officials are wrapping up the hearings in response to objections regarding the same. The elected members, however, have pushed for a freeze on ARV hike. They said that the tax burden was already too much.
 
 “We have demanded that ARV be kept unchanged for the 2014-2017 assessment period. This would ease the tax burden on the Cantonment residents. In the previous assessment, former CEO Nagi Reddy had massively raised ARV and thus the property taxes. The financially challenged will have immense difficulty filing these taxes,” said Kiran Mantri, elected member and former vice-president of the board.
 
 She said the members would approach “higher authorities” if the demands were not met.
 
 “The board officials have maintained that such a freeze was not possible. That is their version. If they do not accede to our demands, we will elevate the matter to defence minister (Manohar) Parrikar,” said Mantri.
 
 Board officials have dismissed the demands stating that ARV hike was the norm.
 
 “One can’t just say that ARV should not be increased. I have to answer the government if I take such a step. Also, it is a myth being spread about the unaffordable hikes. Merely, 100 assessed properties will have a hike of around 15 to 20 percent. These received very small hikes in the previous assessments. About half the properties will have their ARV hiked to around 5 to 10 per cent only, which should not affect them much,” said DN Yadav, the chief executive officer of the board.
 
