PUNE: Transport authorities had a busy day on Tuesday with many citizens waiting for the auspicious occasion of   to get their vehicles registered. 

 Altogether 605 vehicles were registered by the Regional Transport Office (RTO) here on Tuesday. The three days leading to Gudi Padwa were, however, busier with registration of 4,391 vehicles.
 
 "People prefer to buy various jewellery and vehicles, among other things, during this time. Many want to get their vehicles registered on Gudi Padwa," deputy regional transport officer Sanjay Raut said. 
 
 Between March 25 and March 28, a total of 3,233 two-wheelers - motorbikes and scooters - was registered at the RTO. During the same period, as many as 1,036 cars were registered. The rest of the registrations was for other kinds of vehicles. 
 
 On Tuesday, 570 two-wheelers and 31 cars were registered. RTO officials, however, could not provide with the number of vehicle registrations on Gudi Padwa last year. In 2016, around 5,000 vehicles were registered from April 1-April 8.
 
 Avinash Bodke, a resident of Kalyaninagar who bought a motorbike earlier this week and got it registration on Tuesday, said, "It is the start of a new year and, according to the tradition, new things should be bought. In the north and eastern parts of the country, people buy new things before Diwali. I wanted to buy a two-wheeler for more than a month. But my parents advised me to wait till Gudi Padwa. I hope that the year passes well for all," said Avinash, a working professional.
 
 A representative of a two-wheeler showroom at   said they sold around 250-300 two wheelers on Tuesday. "It was a busy day and business was good. During the Gudi Padwa week every year, the sale of two-wheelers and other vehicles sees a major jump. On regular days. we sell anything between 30-50 two-wheelers," he said. 
 
 Shailendra Dixit, a resident of Kondhwa, wanted a "shiny blue" two-wheeler on Gudi Padwa. "Showroom representatives had told me around a month ago that the colour was rare and it had to be ordered. But I wanted to buy it on the occasion of Gudi Padwa, and I wasn't disappointed," he said. 
 
 Sub-registrar offices were open for Gudi Padwa to allow people register properties. Officials said there was a huge rush in almost all 22 locations. The 500 odd sub-registrar offices in the state saw nearly 6,000 registrations.
 
 
