Like every year, this time, too, theme pujas are going to attract revellers in Dibrugarh with organizers coming up with innovative designs that are not only unique but also convey a meaningful message.

 From the replica of a 112-ft-tall Adiyogi Shiva statue to a mammoth two-faced anaconda, Puja revellers have many outof-the box themes to look out for. Celebrating its diamond jubilee year, the Jhalukpara Sarbajanin Durga Puja has chosen the replica of the world famous Adiyogi Shiva statue of Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, as its theme. Acknowledged by the Guinness World Records as the ‘largest bust structure’, the original statue was inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi on February 24, 2017. “Our structure is 80-ft-tall. It is the biggest Shiva statue ever made in the northeast. The structure is completely made of fibre and plywood. Artisans from Hyderabad designed the face of Shiva, while sculptors from Kolkata did the rest. The interior of the canopy, which will feature fairies, deities, murals and mythological figures, has been designed by local artists,” said Vijay Khemani, one of the organisers.
 
 The organisers have also constructed a model of the world famous Kaziranga National Park and a model Assamese village on both ends of the Shiva statue. Messages of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, environment and wildlife conservation have been put on display.The Jhalukpara Puja organised is expected to be the biggest crowd-puller of the town.
 
 The Grahambazar Municipal Colony Durga Puja also has a stunning theme. The pandal has been designed in the shape of a two-faced anaconda. “The mouth of the anaconda will open and close in breathing style. People will have to step on the anaconda’s mouth to go inside,” said Satish Bagaria, the president of the puja committee.
 
 The Mitra Sangh Durga Puja at Grahambazar has designed its pandal in the shape of a huge butterfly. The puja is celebrating 35 years of its existence.
 
 Another popular puja which is likely to catch the eye of pandal-hoppers is the Marwari Durga Puja. This year, it has chosen models of different birds like crane, owls, swan as its theme. The Theatrepara Malipatty Durga Puja is going to feature a huge cave with water fountains. A majestic Durga idol with 50 pair of hands has been installed at the pandal. 
 
