

 Out of the eight sanitary pad vending machines installed at SPPU, most are of no use, say students. Technical glitches in the machines are depriving female students of the varsity from using them. Aishwarya Bhange, a student from the varsity hostel, informs, “Even after putting the required money into the machine, students have been unable to get the product. This has been happening repeatedly and hence, students have given up on trying, and buy sanitary napkins from medical stores outside the campus.”
 
 Another girl student, on the condition of anonymity, shares, “Most of the girl students rely on the machine in case of emergency, but our experience with it hasn’t been good. What is the use of a   that doesn’t do what it has to?” She also added that those few students who actually got sanitary napkins from the machine have their doubts about the quality of the product. According to Prabhakar Desai, Director, Board of Students’ development, the varsity is planning to install more advanced machines on the campus soon. The varsity has installed vending machines in hostel numbers L1, L3, L4, L5, L8 and L9 which can be accessed by the students from all hostels. However, according to students, only the one at L4 is in a working condition. “Other machines either don’t dispense the napkins or haven’t been refilled, so they are of no use. I don’t understand how this is beneficial for anyone,” rues another student.
 
 
 
  
 
 The situation at city colleges is no different. Most of them have vending machines, but ones that lie defunct too. “When the machine was installed, it was properly stocked with sanitary napkins. However, once those got over, our college authorities never bothered to refill it. For many months the machine has remained empty. Though it doesn’t bother me and many other girls who buy sanitary napkins from outside the campus, what should one do in case of an emergency?” asks Rhea DeSouza, a fourth year pharmacy student from Bharati Vidyapeeth. Shreeya Ladkat from Fergusson College echoes similar sentiments. She informs that the vending machine at the college campus has also been defunct due to lack of maintenance. “The college needs to take note of the situation and maintain the machine so that students can use it,” she said.
 
 
 Though the machines are installed, the places where they are installed also matters. Suraksha Chainani, a student of Nowrosjee Wadia College, says, “The machine on our campus is installed in the college building’s ladies washroom. But the condition of the washroom itself is so bad that girls have to think twice before using the machine in emergencies as well.”
 
 
 There are many colleges where there are no vending machines. Shraddha Chavan, a student from College of Agriculture, says, “Neither our hostel nor the college campus has sanitary napkin vending machines. The machine can be helpful in time of emergency and I think the college should install one on campus.” Sakshi Bhagat from Sinhagad College of Arts, Commerce and Science feels the same. She says, “It is a basic sanitisation need and the college should be providing it.”
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
