NOIDA: A   knocked down two persons riding a Royal Enfield bike in Sector 11 on Sunday morning, seriously injuring them. The   driver, instead of helping the victims, both brothers, took a turn and escaped from the spot. 

 The brothers — Aditya Singh Chauhan (26) and Anoop Singh Chauhan (24) — are original residents of Indore in Madhya Pradesh.
 
 The bike is registered in Nalagarh in Himachal Pradesh in the name of Anoop Singh. He works as an executive with Just Dial in Noida and lives in a paying guest accommodation in Sector 11. His elder brother Aditya, who works in Himachal Pradesh, had come to meet him last week. 
 
 The two were on their way from Noida to Gurgaon when the accident took place. “When they reached near Shahani Furniture, a speeding PCR van (no. 9) coming from the opposite direction hit them,” said a witness.
 
 The collusion was so severe that the bike was thrown away to some 20 meters. There were two persons in the PCR van–a Noida Authority-appointed driver, Hoshiyar Singh, and constable Veer Singh. The PCR vehicle is associated with Dial 100 project. The windshield and bonnet of the PCR van (Toyota Innova) were also damaged.
 
 Though the PCR driver applied brakes, he did not bother to help the victims. He immediately took a right turn and drove away from the spot. The accident was caught in the CCTV camera of a nearby residential house. Local residents and passersby gathered on the spot and rushed the victims to Metro Hospital Sector 11. Both are admitted in the ICU.
 
  
  
 
 
 A doctor at Metro Hospital said that Anoop received fractures on both his legs. “Aditya has also fractures on both legs and also head injuries. They also suffered blood loss and are in a state of shock,” said a hospital spokesperson.
 
 Later, the police seized both the PCR van and the bike and took them to Sector 24 police station. 
 
 Dinesh Singh, SP (city) Noida, said that an FIR under sections of 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt) of IPC have been registered at Sector 24 police station. “We have recommended for the suspension of driver and constable,” he said.
 
 
