BENGALURU: In 1981, a young   walked into the Madras Race Course aspiring to train race horses despite opposition from his parents. Having managed to convince a few owners to send five horses into his stable, Padmanabhan was gearing up for his debut race when the authorities shattered his dreams by terminating his license pointing to the fact that he did not have a minimum of six horses under him.

 The termination almost killed his hopes and he was on the verge of exploring alternative careers. However, a month later, his license was restored and his career received a boost when his ward Don’t Worry won him his maiden title. Nearly four decades in the sport, Padmanabhan, with 22 Derby and five Indian Turf Invitation trophies in his cupboard, is one of the most decorated trainers in the country.
 
 "The cancellation of my license left me heartbroken. But after a month, things got better. Don’t Worry’s triumph served as a message to me not to give up," said Padmanabhan, who shifted base to Bengaluru in 1982.
 
 Glad that he did not heed his parents advice on racing, Padmanabhan said: "Horses always fascinated me. I used to ride as an amateur and that is how I was attracted to racing," he said.
 
 On Sunday, when Bengaluru hosts the 55th Indian Turf Invitation Cup,  , as he is known in the racing circles, will be in the spotlight as his ward Hall of Famer will aim for top honours to give the seasoned trainer his second straight victory in the showpiece event. Padmanabhan is the only successful professional to have won five Invitation Cups after his friend and accomplished trainer RR Byramji, who has won a record 12 times. "It’s good to be in the spotlight than to be in oblivion. We have won 33 percent of the Invitations which itself is a remarkable achievement," Padmanabhan said.
 
 "Initially I experimented with horses and then I started getting results. I was winning ordinary races and from 1991 I started winning classics. During the early days I was waiting for an entry to participate in the Invitation Cup but now we are trying to win the Invitation Cup itself."
 
 Padmanabhan, who is four short of achieving a century of classic wins, achieved his first major win in 1995 when Winning Pretty, owned by late Bollywood star  , won the Poonawalla Breeders' Million (Grade 2) in Mumbai. His first classic win came four years earlier as Golden Fantasy won the Mysore 1000 Guineas Grade 2 race.
 
 Known for his unique selection of bloodstock, Padmanabhan became the only professional in India to have bred, owned and trained a race horse - Desert God - to multiple Derby riches in recent times. Interestingly, Desert God, currently racing in Dubai, became the only horse to win highest stake money in India. "We owned Desert God's mother Running Flame. Desert God won the Invitation Cup in Mumbai last year. I thought I will sell her and buy a house but nobody was willing to buy her. Therefore I sent her abroad. We bred another horse called Borsalino (pedigree: Choisir and Running Flame) which also won us two Derbys," said Padmanabhan, who had his horses racing in America and Dubai.
 
 
 
 
 1999: Running Flame, Mumbai
 
 2003: Zurbaran, Hyderabad
 
 2010: Becket, Mumbai
 
 2012: In the Spotlight, Bengaluru
 
 2016: Desert God, Chennai
 
 DEBRY WINS: 22
 
 CLASSIC WINS: 96
 
