Bhopal: All India institute of medical sciences (AIIMS), Bhopal is all set to increase its bed strength to 350 on the heels of new recruitment spree. The premier institute has upped the pace of construction, as city residents await the start of a 24x7 full-fledged hospital.

 Backed by a simultaneous central drive to purchase equipment for all new six AIIMS, the institute in Bhopal is on its way to handle high-end interventions in the coming weeks. 
 
 “We are adding more floor space. The bed strength will double by March. Recruitment of doctors, nurses and other staff is on. We have added new staff and more patient services would follow,” said   director (in charge) Dr Nitin Nagarkar. He is also the director for AIIMS Raipur.
 
 The hospital has appointed approximately 200 new nurses on a contractual basis. Interviews for junior and senior residents are underway and around 50 new doctors are likely to join on contractual basis.
 
 “The first phase of recruitment for regular faculty is scheduled from January 27 to 30. Seven major facilities— psychiatry, ophthalmology, oncology, general surgery, obstetrics and gynaecology — will benefit from this,” said Dr KC Tamaria, medical superintendent, AIIMS Bhopal.
 
 Lack of staff was cited was one of the shortcomings of the premier institute that began in 2012. “Four more trauma operation theatres are also being added. Maternity will be a full-fledged wing. From March 31, a 24x7 medical emergency service will alos be rolled out,” Tamaria added.
 
 With an admission fee of Rs 25, general patients can avail world class medical services for a hospitalisation charge of Rs 35 per day. The treatment in intensive care areas for private ward patients will be Rs 1,000 per day. As for medical tests, an ultrasound sonography test would cost Rs 25, a coronary angioplasty is listed at Rs 19,000 — with additional cost of balloon, stent and drugs depending on patient need— and a heart transplant amounting to around Rs 1.2 lakh.
 
 Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) officials met with top AIIMS Bhopal officials last week in New Delhi to discuss the progress of the institute which was established on the lines of AIIMS, New Delhi. In the absence of a full-fledged hospital, about 30 exceptional consultants provide care at the OPD, the numbers of which are some 30,000 patients per month.
 
 AIIMS administration expects 350 beds to be available for patients care in the hospital. MRI, CT scan and X-ray services have been opened for public. The start of 24x7 hospital services will follow the start of diagnostic services.
 
 CT scan, MRI are critical for emergency services with operation theatres and an Intensive Care Unit on standby.
 
 
