Pollution is causing 'lifegiving' rain to become increasingly acidic in many parts of the country , particularly in the last decade, research by India Meteorological Department and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology has revealed.

 Analysis of rainwater samples from Nagpur, Mohanbari (Assam), Allahabad, Visakhapatnam and Kodaikanal in the decade 2001-2012 showed a pH level varying from 4.77 to 5.32, indicating that these places have been receiving `acid rain'. Rainwater with pH below 5.65 is considered acidic.
 
 Potential of hydrogen, or pH, is a scale to measure acidity or alkalinity of a solution, where 7 is `neutral'. For lesser values, acidity increases with decreasing count. Acid rain is a result of rain water in the atmosphere mixing with polluting gases such as oxides of sulphur and nitrogen emitted from power plants, automobiles and some industrial units.
 
 Acid rain can reduce soil nutrition, corrode buildings, kill aquatic life and increase heavy metal concentration in soil and water, impacting health. “Acid rain causes leaching of soil nutrients, which means that these nutrients are not available to plants and crops grown in the soil, affecting crop nutrition and productivity. Among other harmful effects, acid rain has had a corrosive effect on monuments in the country , like the case of the Taj Mahal,“ experts linked with the study said. Acid rain is not only corrosive to buildings and monuments, but can dissolve salts of heavy metals found in rocks and soil and other natural surfaces. These heavy metals then find their way into agriculture fields, natural water sources and ultimately , human, animal and plant physiologies.
 
 According to the study by scientists V Vizaya Bhaskar and PSP Rao, which was published in the   (Springer), almost all global atmosphere watch (GAW) stations in India showed a decreasing trend in pH levels with each passing decade during the period of analysis (1981 to 2012). The scientists analysed samples collected at 10 GAW stations -Srinagar, Mohanbari, Jodhpur, Allahabad, Nagpur, Pune, Visakhapatnam, Port Blair, Kodaikanal (Tamil Nadu) and Minicoy in Lakshadweep -spread across the length and breadth of the country . Rainfall samples in these locations are collected throughout the year, as and when it rains during all the seasons. The decadal pH value of each station is the average pH value of all rainfall events observed here annually during the decade.
 
 The pH scale is logarithmic. So, there is a 10-fold in crease in acidity with change of each pH unit, such that rainfall with pH 5 is 10 times more acidic than pH 6, rainfall with pH 4 is 100 times more acidic than pH 6 and so on. One of the scientists associated with the study said Mohanbari's rainwater pH had worsened 15 times over the three decades, while Allahabad's has fallen 28 times. Pune's pH has worsened 2.5 times. “The increase in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions due to rise in coal and fuel consumptions as a result of growth in oil refineries, power plants in various ports and rapid increase in vehicles are mainly responsible for making rain acidic,“ one of the scientists said.
 
 The problem has aggravated due to decrease in acid-neutralizing  . “Calcium neutralizes the effect of acidic emissions mixing with rainwater in the atmosphere. The coverage of open land with buildings and mechanical ware due to urbanization has hindered the release of calcium from soil dust into the atmosphere. Calcium from soil dust is released into the atmosphere via winds,“ the study said.
 
 
