JAIPUR: Arbitrary promotions of bureaucrats are creating fissures among officers and the government. Demand from 2002 batch   officers to prepone their promotion by one year have now become a  .

 On Wednesday, IAS officers from 2002 batch, Ashutosh A T Pednekar and   has asked state government to give them one-year relaxation in their next promotion. 
 
 On Thursday, 11 promotee officers from 2002 have also joined Pednekar and Prithvi Raj and emailed their demands to chief secretary O P Meena. 
 
 Making stand of the government clear, senior officials concerned have refused to give in to the demands. “No rules were tweaked and no discrepancies happened in promoting anyone. There is no reason for any bureaucrat to feel like injustice is happening to them,” said a senior official. 
 
 Commenting on the out-of turn promotion for two IPS officers and six IAS officers from 1993 batch, another official, who is privy to the developments, added, “Some may have got it but then exception cannot be a norm. There was no slipup at the first place and even if people think then mistakes were bona fide and not with mala fide intentions.” 
 
 However, the 13 officers are also refusing to budge and highlighted their commitment to take the government head on. “We will certainly take it. There can’t be different rules for different batches. If they don’t give us our due then we will not hesitate in approaching   (CAT),” said one the officers in question. 
 
 Whole controversy over promotions erupted after department of personnel (DoP) promoted IPS officer   (Police Commissioner, Jaipur) and   from the rank of IG to ADG on January 2. They were granted out-of-turn promotion as both of them have not completed their mandatory 25 years of service.
 
 Complicating the matter further, 24 RAS have also raised similar demands and asked to get their DPC done with 2016 officers. However, there petition is likely to go unheeded as state government refused to entertain any further representations over promotions. 
 
