On Sunday, the entire nation was glued to their TV screens with the hope that our women in blue will be able to do what our men could not. The women’s cricket team may not have lifted the trophy in the finals against England, but they have certainly won many hearts. India’s performance in the Women’s World Cup has not only increased the team’s fan following, but has also made some progress in changing the perception of women’s cricket in India. 

 As far as young players in DU are concerned, they are elated with the way things have turned out for women’s cricket after India’s splendid performance at the WWC. The players from Jesus & Mary College – the first champions at the T20 WCL Inter-College Talent Tournament, say that the WWC has proved that women’s cricket is no less. The girls and their coach  , who watched the final match together and cheered for the Indian team, say that they hope the enthusiasm around women’s cricket does not die out with the end of the tournament. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Ragini says, “After this tournament, more girls will be interested in the game. Cricket will be played not only at the college level, but also in school. And in some years, we will also have our own  . This tournament is just the beginning, and it will open many doors for young players.”
 Neha Chillar, an all-rounder from JMC’s team, says that this tournament has definitely changed people’s perception about women’s cricket in India. “My neighbours would often ask, ‘Ladkiyon ke cricket matches mein kuch hota bhi hai?’ But after the semis, they asked me, ‘Where do you go for practice? Take our daughters along’. Our college supports us as it’s a girls’ college, but after the tournament, we might have girls’ teams from co-ed colleges as well.”
 
  
  
 
 Mansi, an off-spin bowler from JMC, says, “Now I think, more people will invest in women’s cricket. Pehle toh sponsors bhi nahi milte thay.”
 Vaishali Mathur, the captain of the JMC team, tells us, “I think the turning point in the game was when our players won against Pakistan, whereas the men’s team had lost to their Pakistani counterparts in the finals. Parents will encourage their daughters to not only play cricket, but take up any sport.” For Sangeeta, a batsman with the team, the best part about the WWC was that the matches were broadcast live. “Aisa nahi tha ki koi nahi dekh raha tha. Isse humein tips toh mili hi, aur sabse zyada important, encouragement mila – ki hum bhi kuch achha hi kar rahe hain cricket khelke,” she says. 
 
  
  
  With inputs from Jyoti.Kanyal@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
 
 
