PUNE: Most zilla parishad (ZP) schools in Pune district have never had a structural audit done, primary education department officials have said.

 Placing the blame on the ZP works department, the officials said it was the responsibility of that department to carry out audits periodically .
 
 However, a visual audit was conducted by the   (CoEP) team in 2011-12 for only school buildings built under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. The report was submitted last month. ZP education officer,  , said a letter has been issued to the works department last month instructing them to complete an audit of all schools. There are over two lakh students studying in about 3,687 ZP schools in Pune.
 
 Shailaja Darade, education officer of the primary education department, said, “None of the schools have been audited as yet by the works department. It is not our responsibility to audit the schools. The works department should do it. We have written to them a month ago seeking an audit for all the zilla parishad schools.“
 
 Pravin Mane, chairman of the works and health department, said, “We never got any letter from the school education department. It is the responsibility of the schools to send a letter to our department if they think there is a problem. Secondly , we have no equipment to conduct an au dit. We will be proposing a budget for such an audit this year.Lastly , we are severely short staffed. We have told the block development officer to send a list of dangerous buildings so that we can invite tenders to revamp these structures.“
 
 Last month, a school classroom built just 20 years ago collapsed in   district killing three students.
 
 The education department officials are not trained to even visually inspect the buildings.An official said, “Once a school sought some minor works.When the contractor removed a layer of the slab, the walls were crumbling from the inside.The moment the contractor applied force, the entire wall collapsed. It could have been dangerous, if the principal had not asked for the minor repair work to be done.“
 
 TIMES VIEW:
 
 It is shocking that the structural audit of zilla parishad schools has never been done. What is more distressing is that two departments operating in the same building should not have any coordination whatsoever. One fails to understand why departments in the same organization write letters to each other about such serious subjects instead of an immediate and direct dialogue on what needs to be done. Direct communication not only saves crucial time but also quickly bring to notice issues pertaining to manpower and equipment crunch. Had the classroom in the Ahmednagar school not collapsed last month, this issue would have remained unaddressed. Now, the authorities must quickly prepare an action plan and implement it to preventing any more tragedies.
 
