PANAJI: Prime Minister Narendra   on Saturday called upon the voters of Goa to give   a comfortable majority for political stability and development in the state. “Give us a comfortable majority and we will make Goa the most comfortable state in the country,” Modi said in his 30-minute speech at Campal-Panaji.

 He said for many years Goa has been living with a disease—the disease of instability—and it was time to get rid of it. “In 10 years (between 1989 and 1999), Goa has seen more than a dozen chief ministers and each government was busy preparing for the next oath taking. Goa should not make that mistake again,” he told a 30,000-odd crowd in his first and only rally after the election to the state was announced.
 
 Avoiding any reference on return of Union defence minister Manohar Parrikar to the state, Modi said the Goan electorate was smarter than the rest of the country. “People in Goa have witnessed the Congress misrule in the state and suffered from corruption. And now you have to decide that you will not allow Goa to face such problems again,” he said.
 
 With naming Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), which broke away from BJP just before the elections, he said some allies ran away to “further their selfish interests”. “I have specially come to Goa to urge you this time that you should not vote for those people who do not think well about the state,” he said.
 
 Without taking any names, he also made a reference to “vote katau log” (vote-splitting people) and said they were the “pickpockets of democracy”. “Don’t vote for those people who want to weaken the democracy,” he said.
 
 Referring to the majority given to him to run the government at Centre, Modi said that due to absolute majority, India has been recognized aboard. “If there was unstable government in Delhi, then the image of India would have been different abroad. Don’t you think that Goa should also have stable government with comfortable majority? Don’t you think that Goa should be recognized across the country? And that is why I have come to you, to urge you that with absolute majority I want you to give me comfortable majority,” he said.
 
 Modi said that the objective of his government was to ensure that works which have not been taken up in the last 50 years, are completed in the next five years and people didn’t want the state to relapse into “Congress era of corruption, horse-trading and incompetence”.
 
 Modi also said though there was talk of demonetization having an impact on tourism, Goa did not face any. “Goa has directly benefited from the tourism industry growth because the state government has focused on tourism and created infrastructure,” he said, adding that the Centre has brought reforms in visa rules to boost tourism.
 
 Stating that “I want to get tourists to the state”, Modi also said that Union government has motivated the state to do publicity abroad to get foreign tourists to India and that they have longer stay in the country. “We are working shoulder to shoulder with the state government for the economic growth and creating employment in the state,” Modi said.
 
 Modi also listed out the work carried out by the Centre for the development of the state, which include the construction of bridges. “If there is no development in the state then people will move out of the state and if the reverse trend began, then what will happen to the future of Goa,” Modi asked.
 
 “I am proud to tell you that the amount of assistance our government has offered to the state government in last 25 month has not been done by various governments in last 50 years,” he said, adding the overall development done by the BJP government in the past five years has set a benchmark, which are lessons for even larger states.
 
 “Whatever Goa does can’t be simple. It should be iconic and we need to showcase it to the tourists,” he said.
 
 
