UDHAGAMANDALAM: Based on the requisition from the   and taking into consideration the   in Sigur and Siriyur ranges in the Nilgiris north division forests, Tangedco has opened a channel to release water at the downstream canal of   located near Ooty. 

 The prevailing long dry-spell in the Nilgiris has driven the water sources in the forests run dry. According to Tangedco officials, the release of water would run through Sigur and Siriyur forest ranges and be helpful in catering to the need of   there. “The water release would help the animals to not stray out of the forest area in search of water,” said forest officials. 
 
 “We understand the dry situation due to failure of monsoons in the hills. There was a request from the forest department to release water from the downstream of Kamarajar Dam,” an official attached to Kundha power generation unit, told TOI. 
 
 He added, “This water will flow through Siriyur and Sigur forest areas. And this would fulfill the water requirements of the wild animals there.”
 
 According to a Tangedco official, Kamarajar Dam, where power generation is taking place, has water only up to 50% of its capacity. “But the water what we have been releasing is a meagre amount, which will cater to the need of the animals,” he said. The channel at the lower stream of Kamarajar Dam will be kept open till a few showers drench the forest areas.
 
 District forest officer (north division) Kalanithi told TOI, “The water release from Kamarajar Dam is beneficial to the wild animals as well for development of fresh vegetation in the forest which in turn will help the animals.”
 
 He added, “We have formed a few teams comprising forest guards and staff to monitor the flow of water through the forest areas as it would also pass through a few private land.” The private land owners should not block the water for their own farming purposes, according to him.
 
 “By providing sufficient water, we are also preventing the wild animals from straying out of forest areas,” Kalanidhi said. Sigur and Siriyur ranges are home to a good number of carnivores besides elephants and Indian gaurs.
 
