Pune: Maharashtra has now initiated action against illegal slaughterhouses in several municipal corporations.

 On Saturday, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board said it has issued closure notices to more than 100 abattoirs in the state for not obtaining necessary permissions.
 
 “There were violations in various municipal corporations. After being slapped with notices, a few took permission,” an MPCB official said.
 
 A recent government report stated that of the 37 slaughterhouses in 16 municipal corporations and 21 nagar parishads in Maharashtra, 20 are illegal and eight have sought nod from the MPCB.
 
 “We have issued over 100 notices. We are now re-checking everything to ensure they have the requisite permissions,” the official added.
 
 According to the report, permissions are mandatory for prevention and control of pollution under the Water act 1974 and Air act 1981 in order to run a slaughterhouse, . It is also compulsory to have the infrastructure in place to dispose of animal waste.
 
 The MPCB had revoked the licences of four civic bodies between March 2010 and October 2014. Three of the corporations four had not reapplied for a licence. The remainder too had not sought to renew their licences, rendering them illegal.
 
 With no permissions, says the MPCB, it is a given that the waste generated by slaughterhouses is being disposed in gutters which end in water bodies.
 
 The situation is similar in the state’s municipal councils. Of the 36 municipal councils, 21 have slaughterhouses. And of these 21, six are legal, eight have applied for permissions and the other seven are illegal.
 
 Only those slaughterhouses and meat-processing units which have submitted concrete proposals with adequate treatment and disposal facilities for their liquid and solid waste will be allowed to restart their operations, MPCB officials said. 
 
 The issue of illegal slaughterhouse has been in the news after the Uttar Pradesh government’s crackdown on such units recently.
 
 
