MANALI: Luxury Volvo buses have helped in growth of tourism in Manali as the town is not well connected by flights or trains, but there is no parking space available for them. While government run Volvo buses are allowed to be parked in   ( ) bus stand in the town, private tourist buses are not allowed to enter the town. 

 The small bus stand cannot accommodate the existing buses and more private buses entering the town are blamed for traffic jams. Private Volvo buses were earlier given a space near police station here but later were asked not to park at a ground outside the town.
 
 The current parking land is being transferred in the name of HRTC and the government has a plan to build a new bus stand here. The tourist buses will have to vacate this land soon, major part of which will be used for four-laning of the national highway.
 
 Nearly 30 Volvo buses run on Delhi-Manali route on a regular basis while the number increases to 70 during peak season. The current parking ground is in bad condition as it was flooded after rain and snowfall. The slush made the unpaved ground completely boggy where buses get stuck and tourists fail to prevent their shoes, dresses and bags from the sludge. “Even animals can’t walk on this and the entire floor inside the luxury bus coaches gets covered in mud,” said an annoyed tourist, boarding a Volvo bus to Delhi. 
 
 Volvo association president Lajvanti Sharma said they have no authority to pave the floor of the parking as the land is under control of the HRTC. “We have been demanding a permanent land to use as a bus stand and requested a local MLA and other authorities to help us. Once the work of HRTC bus stand will start, they will ask us to vacate the parking,” she said.
 
 HP travel agents association president Om Prakash Thakur said there was surge in tourist arrival after Volvo buses started to run on various routes of Himachal from Delhi. “But, tourists are not getting the required facilities at Manali bus stand,” he said.
 
 
