PANAJI: The ruling BJP is likely to face a tough battle for ballot in the state as its erstwhile partner in the government, Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), joined hands with Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM), the breakaway RSS faction of  , and Shiv Sena to form a grand alliance,  .
 
  The alliance was formally announced by MGP senior functionary   ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar and declared Velingkar as the convener of the alliance. Velingkar, in turn, announced Dhavalikar as its chief minister candidate. Dhavalikar said the pre-poll alliance was “to save culture and language in the state” and was confident of coming to power with an absolute majority. Goa will cast its vote for 40 seats on February 4.
  
  Dhavalikar said if Mahayuti was elected to power, “we will withdraw the grant in-aid to Church-run English medium primary schools”. The parent body of GSM, Bharatiya Bhasha Suraksha manch (BBSM) of which Velingkar is co-convener, had always maintained that if Goa’s identity is to be retained and preserved, then the medium of instruction (MOI) should be the regional language.
  
  On this count, Velinkgar had called Union defence minister Manohar Parrikar ‘liar’ and slammed him for “cheating” people of Goa. Parrikar had joined hands with BBSM demanding withdrawal of MOI policy of the Congress government in 2011 giving grants to English medium primary schools. After becoming the CM, Parrikar continued grants to English medium schools.
  
  Velingkar was removed from the post of state RSS chief for allegedly slamming BJP leaders on MOI issue and subsequently, he led a revolt against the RSS leadership creating history.
  
  With the announcement of Mahayuti, BJP will face strong challenge in north Goa constituencies where saffron party had an edge over the others. Mahayuti is likely to divide the Hindu votes in north Goa, which will be a big threat to BJP candidates, political commentators said. Of the 21 seats won by BJP, 12 were from the north. Mahayuti is also likely to damage BJP’s prospects in hinterlands of south Goa, political observers said.
  
  Ironically, Mahayuti was announced at the same place where MGP and BJP had announced the pre-poll alliance on February 6, 2012. As per the seat-sharing agreement, MGP will contest 30 seats, GSM six including Siolim, Panaji, Mayem, Shakali, Curchorem and Velim and Shiv Sena four, which includes Saligao, Tivim, Mormugao and Cuncolim.
  
  The alliance will fight the elections on a common minimum programme and will form a coordination committee.
  
  “We will give maximum tickets to youth and on an average, candidates would be 45 years of age and minimum qualification whould be standard XII,” Dhavalikar said.
  
  GSM president Anand Shirodkar said even though his was a new party, the cadre had worked in past two elections for the BJP. “GSM cadre have experience in contesting elections,” he said.
  
  Velingkar claimed that not a single RSS member would vote for the BJP.
  
  On a post-poll alliance with BJP if the alliance fails to get a majoirty, Dhavalikar said there was no question of tying up with any other party as they were confidence of winning 21 seats.
  
  As for the contentious casino issue, whether they would keep it open or close it down, Velingkar said they would detail their stand in the common minimum programme.
