Chennai: It’s the south story again. Not only is southern demand vrooming in the mass market passenger vehicles segment, it is also in top gear for luxury vehicles. According to luxury car maker Mercedes Benz, southern markets grew by 12-15% in calendar 2016 and is currently one of the brand’s with the highest growing markets. “It played a key role in the overall growth of the company,” said Michael Jopp, VP-sales & marketing, Mercedes Benz India. “The share of southern markets in our total sales is now 25%.”

 The company is lining up a slew of launches as part of a “strong plan to maintain our leadership in the luxury segment,” said Jopp. “We are looking at double digit growth for the year despite difficulties due to demonetisation. We had a bad November but a good December so we closed with 1.8% de-growth in calendar 2016 it has been a record month in February and we are bullish on March as well,” he added. 
 
 Alongside the southern surge is another trend — increasing usage of petrol vehicles— even in staunchly diesel markets like the south. “From our side the petrol share has increased by 20% depending on regions,” said Jopp. “It’s the highest in Delhi and even markets stronger on diesel like the south now have a 20% petrol share.” Mercedes Benz has launched petrol variants of its entire range and will continue to offer petrol powertrain options, he added.
 
 The luxury car market, which was hit by demonetisation, is expected to recover this year. Mercedes Benz — which rolled out its long wheel base new E CLass at a price tag of Rs 57.71 lakh for petrol and Rs 71.4 lakh for diesel — clocked 500 confirmed bookings within one week from launch. “This is the highest ever booking for a new model we have launched in India,” he said. Traditionally the E Class comprises more than 34% of Mercedes Benz’ total sales though its share, over the past 12-18 months, has come down as the previous version was being phased out. “With the new E-Class we expect the model to get back to more than 30% share,” added Jopp. 
 
 “Our SUV segment grew by 20% in calendar 2016 — the highest segment growth in our portfolio,” said Jopp. Sedans grew by double digit but less than 20%. AMG and dream cars grew highest but on a small base. 
 
 
