NEW DELHI: Holding that prisoners cannot be treated as “chattel” (personal possession) and are entitled to a fundamental right to health that must be upheld by governments, the Supreme Court expressed concern on Friday over unnatural deaths in jails and directed that families of all such deceased inmates be compensated. 

 A bench of Justices Madan Lokur and Deepak Gupta ruled that family members of prisoners who died under mysterious circumstances in the last five years are eligible for compensation and entrusted high courts to take note of such cases from 2012 onwards and award an adequate sum. The court also passed a slew of directions to the Centre and states to improve conditions for jail inmates to provide basic facilities, including medical assistance, in 1,382 prisons in the country. It said the Centre must encourage family members to visit jailed relatives and explore the possibility of permitting contact through phones and video conference. 
 
 The court noted that conditions in Tihar jail were also pathetic as it was not equipped to face any emergency situation as there was a shortage of doctors and other medical staff ranging from 18% to 62%. “If these are the conditions in what is perhaps the ‘best prison’ in the country, we shudder to think what the position would be in other prisons across the country,” the bench said. 
 
 As per the   (NCRB), 552 prisoners died an unnatural death between 2012 and 2015. They died due to various reasons, including suicide, murder by jail inmates and negligence by jail staff. The court noted that the   had, from time to time, passed various directions to state governments but they were not followed, resulting in the continuance of unnatural deaths of prisoners. 
 
 “No state government can shirk its duties and responsibilities for providing better facilities to prisoners. If a state government is unable to do so, it should be far more circumspect in arresting and detaining persons, particularly undertrial prisoners who constitute the vast majority of those in judicial custody. Governments and the prosecution do not have to oppose every bail application nor do they have to ask for the remand of every suspect pending investigation,” the bench said. 
 
 “If the fundamental right to life and liberty postulated by Article 21 of the Constitution is to be given its true meaning, the central government and the state governments must accept reality and not proceed on the basis that prisoners can be treated as chattel,” it said. Expressing concern that there is no let-up in  , the court said the situation reflects a tragic state of affairs indicating disdain of the state towards the life and liberty of individuals, particularly those who are incarcerated.
 
