CHANDIGARH: To refurbish the age old system of mythological storytelling and be at par with new gen entertainment sources, the city-based   committees will re-invent the art this year.

 However, the narrative of 'Ramayana' and its teachings shall stay intact. The Ramleela committee in Sector 28, run by Samwaad, a city-based theater group will do away with the buffer time after the culmination of every 'adhyay' by pre-creating layers of sets and props on the stage itself. This will save the time lost during changing the logistics on the spot, thus enabling the story to go on without a break for two hours.
 
 Earlier, the audience had to wait for long intervals for the scenes to resume.
 
 “In the earlier days, the people had limited options of entertainment, hence Ramleela was significant festive fervor. Nowadays, public has a bleak attention span and do not wait for anything," said Mukesh Sharma, director of Ramleela Committee.
 
 "We are competing with reality shows featured in TV. If we are not creative, no one will watch our production,” he lamented.
 
 Sharma has also made provisions of creating pre-meditated sets that will be used with a flap of the eye and has arranged for a new ‘light and sound' format to keep the audience intrigued.
 
 “People tend to watch if the continuity is there. Though, the costs have been as high as Rs 2 lakh this year,” he added.
 
 Furthermore, he has also introduced a new method of educating masses by connecting epic to the prevalent social issues. For this they have made a few changes in the script of lead characters like Rama, Lakshman to shed light on issues like eve-teasing and caste system.
 
 “When 'Shabri' tasted fruit (ber) and later gave it to Ram the lord consumed it hence depicting that Ram did not believe in the caste system. Our characters will spread this wisdom through vocalizing it," added a committee member.
 
 The committee has shelled Rs 20,000 for recording song ‘Lut chuke hain’ to discourage the Chinese products and spread awareness among consumers. The song will be played until   this year.
 
 Moreover, the   will also showcase new metal head-gears , anklets and elbow-cups for Ram, Lakshman, Ravana and Dashrath.
 
 “The metals will give a vibrant hue to the garments,” added Sharma.
 
 On the other hand,   20 has created the heaviest Ravana costume weighing 28 kilograms.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Ashok Chaudhary playing the character said, “I have been enacting the role of Ravana since a long time but I have never worn a costume this heavy before.”
 
 The custom has been sourced from Chandni-Chowk in New Delhi.
 
 The helmet alone weighs upto 3-4 kgs, however, Chaudhary, a government employee is enthralled to adorn the unusual garb.
 
 “I have rehearsed twice with the costume. It is heavy but I will get used to it,” he said.
 
 Playing the innovation card, the Navyug Ramleela Commitee of Sector 7 have casted two female artists to portray the roles of Seeta and Vedvati breaking the old tradition of genderless portrayal.
 
 “Men have been playing female characters in Ramleela but we have changed that for two roles,” said Govind Kumar, an associate of the committee.
 
 The committee has also purchased technology that will emanate sparks from swords being used by the characters on stage.
 
 
