LUCKNOW: Your visit to Lucknow zoo will be more fun-filled soon as you will get e-guides in the form of headphones to take you on a tour of the premises. Zoo authorities are also going to install LED screens close to the enclosures of big cats and other large animals to make children relate virtually with them.

 The headphones, for which visitors will have to pay a security deposit, will get connected via Bluetooth to the recording about an animal as soon as someone gets close to its enclosure. Lucknow zoo has close to 1,000 animals.
 
 Apart from information about the pedigree and origin of the animals, the audio clip will have interesting day-to-day observations, like their fondness for the keepers, any major diseases they have battled, their status on the conservation chart and if they were brought from the wild or were born and brought up in the zoo.
 
 Visitors will also be able to download an app to watch videos of their favourite animals and read anecdotes about them.“The profiles have been prepared after talking to the keepers, doctors and going through the pedigree charts and documents given by the parent zoos in case the animals have been brought under an exchange programme,“ said UP chief wildlife warden SK Upadhyay.
 
 The forest department had initially planned to launch the facility during Wildlife Week starting from October 1, but now it has been postponed. The zoo has received around Rs 50 lakh from Compensatory Afforestation and Fund Management Planning Authority for the project.
 
 There are many exciting stories to be told, like that of Jason and Nikita, the pair of chimpanzees brought to Lucknow from Mysore zoo in 2007. They have been together for over two decades.
 
 Lucknow zoo had thought of bringing Chhajju, the lone chimp in Kanpur zoo, on a breeding loan to the city and send Jason there in exchange. But it had to abandon the plan after   minister and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi intervened.
 
 The saga of Lohit, the rhino, is equally interesting. His prolonged bachelorhood has been a cause of worry for zoo administration as it often makes him restless.
 
