DEHRADUN: An   has alleged that a serving Army officer was involved in killing three stray dogs and injuring two others. The complaint, which was filed on Friday evening, is being investigated by police and Army officials. However, the latter claimed that the bodies of the three dogs were not found at the spot, but they will set up an inquiry to look into the matter.
 
  According to vice president of Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ( )  , she received a phone call on Thursday and was informed about the attack on the dogs by the officer at the Garhi Cantt area here. “I reached the spot and found the dogs, who had been beaten with a stick. The attack was so vicious that three dogs died and two were seriously injured,” Bahukhandi said, adding that she also spoke to the officer, but he did not “seem to regret his act”.
  
  “The officer said that he acted in self-defence because the dogs attacked him when he was out on the street on Wednesday night, but he showed no remorse for killing innocent animals,” said the activist, who is also the founding member of ‘Raahat’, an animal shelter in the city.
  
  A senior Army official told TOI that the incident is likely to have been caused by an altercation between the accused officer and another officer who used to feed the strays. “The accused officer had claimed that he was attacked by the strays while taking his own dogs out for a walk. This might have triggered the attack on the strays,” the senior officer added.
  
  Garhi Cantt police station officer in-charge Shankar Singh Bisht said that the matter is being investigated and they are yet to speak to the officer against whom the complaint has been filed.
  
  Bahukhandi said she spoke to Army officials before filing the complaint, but no action was taken.
  
  Army officials claimed that they have set up an inquiry to look into the matter. “It seems that there was an altercation between two officers over their pets. But nothing serious happened. We are yet to speak to the two parties for their statements. As of now, we have not found any evidence. Bodies of the dogs were also not found at the spot,” said an Army official.
  
  Bahukhandi claimed that she has written to Union women and child welfare minister Maneka Gandhi and will also write to the defence ministry in this regard.
