Trichy: After a brief lull, protests against Tasmac outlets resumed in the city on Monday. The district administration had to face a stiff opposition from residents who demanded removal of outlets functioning at Babu Road, Big Bazaar Street and Ayyalamman Padithurai in Trichy. 

 A group of people belonging to integrated Babu Road Welfare Association lined up outside the district collector’s office on Monday and demanded removal of two wine shops bearing numbers: 10252 and 10219 located in a residential area along Babu Road in the city. 
 
 “We have been staging protests against the two wine shops for the past two months. Yet, there hasn’t been any change in the situation. So, we conducted a meeting on July 7 and passed some resolutions to safeguard the residents from the nuisance created by the tipplers visiting the two wine shops,” read a petition submitted by the residents to the collector K Rajamani on Monday. 
 
 The residents demanded immediate closure of the shops. They also demanded to install CCTV cameras along the stretch to capture the inconvenience caused to the general public due to the movements of the drunkards in the shop. 
 
 Another call for closure of a Tasmac outlet came from the residents of Big Bazaar Street which runs parallel to Babu Road. Here too residents complained about the nuisance created by the tipplers. 
 
 Residents from Konakkarai area in ward 57 of the Trichy Corporation were also up in arm against two TASMAC wine shops numbered: 354 and 377 which have been functioning for the past six months. 
 
 The two shops were situated on the way to Ayyalamman padithurai and the residents in Konakkarai had to cross the shops to reach the Padithurai. So, they demanded to close the shop considering the inconvenience caused to the people. 
 
 Besides the demand for permanent closure, the residents appealed to the collector to declare holiday for the shop on August 3 on account of Aadi Perukku festival for which hundreds of people will visit Padithurai. 
 
 
