MUMBAI:   are preparing to engage with hospitals on bringing down the   involving stents. 

 Insurers said that although formal communication has not taken place, hospitals have indicated that   will not come down to reflect   as cost of procedures are likely to increase soon.
 
 This comes even as several hospitals are planning to increase the angioplasty procedure packages. Certain others are in a wait-and-watch mode to work out the increase in procedure costs soon, with the NPPA notification clarifying that they cannot charge any margins.
 
 “Although there has been no official communication, we are hearing that hospitals are increasing the cost of surgeries as there is no price control on what they charge for procedures,” said Shreeraj Deshpande, head of health   at Future Generali Insurance.
 
  on Monday said that hospitals could not charge additional margins as these had already been built into the calculation of ceiling price, first reported in TOI on February 19.
 
 According to Sanjay Datta, chief of underwriting and claims at ICICI Lombard General Insurance, insurers will insist on the lower cost of stents being passed on to consumers. He added that the government had sought data from insurers on how much companies are paying for procedures and hospitals cannot push up other costs.
 
 NPPA said in a clarification that there is no separate retail channel for coronary stents as they are supplied directly by companies to hospitals. “The notified prices are inclusive of maximum 8% trade margin (over and above margins of manufacturers and importers) which can be deployed by the companies as per their business model”.
 
 Margins are at the centre of the controversy in stents, which are marked up nearly 900% from their landed cost; a bulk of this inflated fee pocketed by hospitals and distributors, increasing the price for the patient. 
 
 According to Deshpande, even before the price control there had been cases of inflating the cost and some hospitals refused to share the packaging at the time of the claim. Usually, insurance companies ask for the original packaging of the stent so that the genuineness of the product and the pricing can be ascertained by scanning the code.
 
 Stent companies will be meeting NPPA and ministry officials to understand the billing structure. 
 
 “The discussion is on practical billing arrangement and tax liability, and role of hospital pharmacy if any. Also, there is no clarity as to who exactly will bear the inventory cost”, an industry expert added.
 
 NPPA further said that “no additional charge over and above the ceiling price notified earlier in price notification shall be charged from the consumer except local sales tax and VAT, if paid in actual”.
 
 According to a senior insurance official, even before the price control, there had been cases of inflating the cost and some hospitals refused to share the packaging at the time of the claim. Usually, insurance firms ask for the original packaging of the stent so that the genuineness of the product and the pricing can be ascertained by scanning the code.
 
