LUCKNOW: Three years ago,   swept to power in Lok Sabha with a thumping majority riding on its unprecedented win in  . On Saturday, the state gave the party yet another unprecedented win, with 324 seats along with its allies in the 403-strong Assembly, decimating the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party and breaking their cyclical rule in the state.

 The result not only surprised SP, BSP and the Congress, it left the state and political pundits stunned as there was no perceivable wave during the election to trigger the tsunami of votes. It also pointed at a silent anti-incumbency that all-pervasive in the state despite the outgoing Samajwadi Party’s strong development pitch all along the campaign. Political observers say it could well be a vote for change to halt the alternative rule by the two regional parties.
 
 BJP’s big win also underlined a new chapter in its style of politics, playing the caste card to break the stranglehold of the regional parties on various castes. From inducting Dalit leaders from BSP to choosing an MBC to lead the party just ahead of polls and strategic ticket distribution, it beat SP and BSP in its own game that held them in good stead for years.
 
 The vote share of these parties too got depleted, with SP’s share dropping from 29% in 2012, when it formed a majority government, to 22%, and BSP’s share dropping from 26 to 22.
 
 While the drop may not be very significant, political observers say what seems to have hurt the regional parties is the splitting of the Muslim vote, which forms a large chunk in UP, with about 20%. Observers say while the split in SP left Muslim voters perplexed – as most could not decide between the old and new order in the party now under Akhilesh Yadav – the vote also got divided between SP and BSP.
 
 If the Muslim vote got divided, a number of other factors pushed the surging voters to press the button with the lotus symbol – from polarization caused by strong speeches from BJP leaders to low intensity communal incidents to the demonetization drive having a positive impact especially in rural areas. NDA’s partners in UP performed well too, with Apna dal sweeping nine out of 12 seats it fought on and the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party winning four out of eight.
 
 While the stage for a win in the Assembly polls was set in 2014 when a resurgent BJP won a stupendous 71 out of the 80 Lok Sabha seats in UP, it faced a semblance of a fight from former UP CM Akhilesh Yadav, who, stung by a very poor showing by his party, adopted the development agenda with a gusto and embarked on a campaign with “vikas” as his pitch to counter PM Narendra Modi’s development plank.
 
 But, it came after three years of his term as CM and turned out to be probably too little, too late. What compounded his problems was an ugly war within his family when he wrested control of the party from his father Mulayam Singh Yadav and uncle Shivpal Yadav, the men who built and nurtured the party for 25 years. It caused so much bad blood that Mulayam refused to campaign and had Shivpal sulking. The legal battle to control the party symbol of cycle also cost Akhilesh precious time.
 
 If this wasn’t enough, his decision to join hands with the Congress despite Mulayam’s displeasure, did not work out as the the grand old party’s tally went down to 7 from its strength of 28 in 2012 and it was unable to transfer its votes to SP. The hope of getting voters to pitch for youth – as Akhilesh held a number of roadshows with Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi -- got dashed.
 
 Mayawati, whose party now stares at political oblivion after getting wiped out completely in 2014, may have barely held on to her Dalit vote – albeit with an overall drop of about 4% -- but her caste formula failed to work, with the famed Dalit-Muslim and Dalit-upper caste not working out.
 
 BJP played its cards well, changing its strategy at virtually every phase over the long-stretch of polling across the state to suit the mood of the times and the conditions in the region across such a big geographical stretch.
 
 National BJP chief Amit Shah, however, said after the results that it was a vote for development and people have shunned pariwarvad and politics of caste to root for vikas.
 
 
