NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday joined chief minister Arvind   in voicing the need to strengthen the party organisation and connect deeper with the people. 

 There’s a feeling that senior   members must be given more focused roles to bolster the party. Sisodia told TOI that there were a few things under review. “We need to focus on organisation building and strengthening. We won in 2015 and became MLAs, and much of the focus was on running the Delhi government. Now, in the backdrop of the municipal results, we feel that the organisation needs attention of senior AAP members. We are doing a lot of work in fields like education and health, but we need to take that message effectively to people, telling them how these changes will impact their life positively,” Sisodia said, adding that better communication and greater outreach were the critical focus areas. 
 
 “What is wrong, we say with full courage; if we make mistakes, we also have the courage to correct it. We are introspecting and analysing the results at the booth level. We are also meeting all MLAs and doing an area-wise assessment to find out to what extent the flagship schemes and benefits from policies have reached the people. This includes power, water, education, health and minimum wages among others,” AAP’s new Delhi convener Gopal Rai told a television channel in an interview. 
 
 Rai, a founding member, would be steering the organisational revamp. “We are also looking at our strengths and the areas that need more work,” Rai said. 
 
 AAP’s former Delhi convener, Dilip Pandey said the deliberations at the political affairs committee over the last two days have thrown up many views from volunteers and voters. 
 
 Asked why the party couldn’t gauge the mood of the voters, Pandey said, “One cannot know that a poll strategy is in the right directions till it’s tested. We are assessing the results.” 
 
 Pandey said AAP would also be focusing more on the accessibility and availability of senior leaders. 
 
 
