PATNA: Senior   functionary and Rajya Sabha member   on Sunday praised former PM late   saying he was the only good human being in the Nehru-Gandhi family, who contributed to the awakening of Hindus in the country.
 
  He also said Rajiv was the only “Hindu neta” in the   who wanted from his heart that Ram Mandir should be constructed in Ayodhya.
  
  Addressing a symposium on ‘Ram, Ram Mandir and Hindu Renaissance’ here, Swamy recalled how Rajiv, despite being PM from the Congress, allowed telecast of popular mythological serial ‘Ramayana’ on Doordarshan and later got the locks of Ram temple in Ayodhya opened for prayers by Hindu families despite stiff opposition from some senior functionaries in the Congress.
  
  Swamy also praised former PM P V Narasimha Rao saying he also wanted Ram Mandir to be constructed in Ayodhya.
  
  Exuding optimism for the settlement of Ayodhya dispute in the wake of the Supreme Court’s recent directive asking the contending parties to work out an off-the-court settlement, Swamy said he hoped a grand Ram Mandir would be constructed in Ayodhya before the Ram Navami in 2018.
  
  Swamy also said if Ram Mandir could not be constructed by the mutual settlement between the warring parties, it would be constructed after passing a necessary legislation in Parliament after BJP gets majority in the Rajya Sabha in 2018.
  
  He further appealed to the Muslims to hand over their part of the land in Ayodhya to help the construction of a grand Ram temple there. “A complete and grand Ram Mandir will be constructed in Ayodhya, but it will be better if the initiative is taken by the Muslim community. They should hand over the land. We will provide them land at another place for the construction of a mosque. It will strengthen the relationship between Hindus and Muslims,” Swamy argued.
  
  He said the construction of a Ram Mandir was a matter of faith for Hindus and the community had every right to build it without any further delay. “Muslims should provide us place for temple and we will provide them a place for offering namaj,” he said.
  
  The symposium, organized by the Bihar unit of the Virat Hindustan Sangam, was also addressed by well-known political thinker K N Govindacharya.
