NEW DELHI: It is more than likely the   so presumptuously added to your bill, and which you pay to avoid embarrassment even if you don’t like the food, will not in entirety reach the person who served you, if at all.

 Owners use the amount to pay for breakage, sweeten profits, and, in one case, pay salaries out of an amount meant to be an extra for the waiters. Some, however, do share it with their staff.
 
 And your meal soon might cost more. After the government advised customers they could choose not to pay the service charge, many restaurants are ready to make their menus more expensive while others say they will exercise their right to refuse admission.
 
 The results of a Times of India online poll that asked whether the service charge on a restaurant bill should be compulsory or optional on Friday showed an overwhelming 29,025 people voting for “optional” and only 2005 plumping for the former.
 
 The way out might be for the government to either order that a service charge cannot be added to a bill without the customer’s consent, or, if it is, come up with a mechanism to ensure the full amount is divided equally between the waiters.
 
 Customers also often find the charge slip has space for both a service charge and a tip, though, essentially, they are the same thing. “We have been paying the service charge and additional tips to waiters. This clarification (from the government) has come now,” said a diner in Guwahati.
 
 TOI bureaux across India spoke to waiters, restaurant owners and restaurant association heads and found all but the odd exception here and there included a service charge, and that many said they distributed the day’s collection. Hotel owners in Guwahati, Pune and Ahmedabad even admitted they used part of the service charge to compensate for broken crockery.
 
 “We levy a 4% service charge, of which 80% is given to the waiters and other staff and the remaining 20% is spent on damages and breakage,” said   — Gujarat president Narendra Somani.
 
 Sunil Chandani, owner of The   chain in Pune, said, “We not only pay a tax on the service charge we levy, but the money remaining is used to extend medical facilities and the like to the employees.”
 
 Praful Chandawarkar, MD of the   added, “Everything, from clean waiter uniforms to the hygiene maintained in the restaurant, is covered in the service charge.”
 
 Sources at the Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India said the service charge remained undisclosed, arbitrary, and rarely distributed down the line.
 
 “Even if they claim to be doing it, not more than 1% distribute the money,” said an HRAEI official. “The service charge should at least be declared, which makes the new rule a good one. Ideally, it should be left to the customer to decide,” said HRAEI president Suresh Poddar. There are exceptions.
 
 There were some hoteliers, in Surat, for instance, who said they gave it all to their waiters. “We can’t hire staff these days without agreeing to pay them the service charge money,” said Sanat Reliya, who owns   in Surat.
 
 But many waiters and doormen said they did get some amount but were unsure it was their full share of the day’s takings. The government advisory, they feel, will hit their pockets. Mukesh Baru, who waits on tables at a   restaurant, said the gain to them did not add up to the day’s collection because there was no government monitoring.
 
 In Pune, waiter   said he got nothing except his salary. “There are no additional benefits or anything for any of us,” he said. The serving staff believe the service charge must continue.
 
 “Since last month they have stopped paying us the service charge money… How can we survive on a meagre Rs 5,000 salary,” said  , a waiter in Gujarat.
 
