Mumbai:   is making sure that its ousted chairman   and his team get no waiver walkover to argue their case on merit in the   ( ). Pushing back with detailed arguments on the law and facts, lead Tata counsel A M Singhvi on Friday said, “A waiver gateway opens only in compelling and exceptional cases, which this is not. A waiver can be granted only if there is supervening public and national interest, or if the Mistry camp is without any alternative legal remedy, which is not demonstrated by them.”

 The case involves two family-held firms of Mistry, which moved the NCLT as minority shareholders of Tata Sons to challenge his removal from the company board as an “oppressive act”. 
 
 The NCLT decision on waiver would be significant for both boards and shareholders of companies, as it is the first such case being argued under the new  . 
 
 The Mistry firms accuse Tata Sons of actions that oppress their rights and those of other similar class of minority shareholders, and also allege mismanagement by the board against the interests of the company. Under the Companies Act, a minority shareholder with 10% of issued share capital can move the NCLT for relief against such acts of oppression and mismanagement. But on March 6, the Mistry firms received a setback after the tribunal held that they did not meet the bar and their petition was, thus, “not maintainable”. But the law permits the tribunal to waive the minimum qualification. And senior counsel C A Sundaram and Janak Dwarkadas on team Mistry said a waiver is merited in view of the serious nature of the grievances raised, so that the matter can be argued on merits of the allegations. Sundaram said, “The relevant criteria is if issues raised affect functioning of a company and affect welfare of a large body of shareholders.” In his submissions opposing the waiver, Singhvi, who argued all day, said the legislature by placing a 10% bar was “not unduly strict” and the “exception” cannot be so low that it “becomes a ‘walk in, walk out’ gateway.” While seeking a waiver, he argued, “Sundaram has not shown a single ground of supervening national or public interest. After losing the maintainability plea with your lordship debunking the ‘class of shareholders’ argument, they are attempting a brazen review with the same arguments for a waiver. Besides, the said petitioners are not remedy-less, they can approach the high court, right next door.” The hearing will continue on April 4.
 
 
