PATNA: State finance minister   on Wednesday urged Union finance minister   to instruct commercial banks to open more bank branches and ATM kiosks in   as their palpable lack had adversely impacted the life of people since note ban.

 Siddiqui was addressing the pre-budget meeting of states’ finance ministers convened by Jaitley in Delhi. Commercial taxes minister  , who had earlier participated in the meet on GST with Jaitley, was also on the side of Siddiqui at the pre-budget conclave.
 
 Siddiqui said the RBI had asked the commercial banks to open 1,640 bank branches in the state during the current fiscal, but only 78 such branches had been made functional till now. He, in the same vein, claimed that the banks were reluctant to give loans, as a result of which the credit-deposit (CD) ratio of the state stood at merely 43.95%, which was far less than the national average. “We solicit your intervention and concrete advice to the commercial banks,” Siddiqui told Jaitley.
 
 He said the Centre might have augmented tax returns due to increased bank deposits as a result of the note ban, but the demonetisation had also adversely impacted the sale and activities in automobile, tourism, shops and establishments. As a result, the tax earnings of Bihar had fallen. Siddiqui appealed to Union finance minister to take care of the interests of Bihar in the Union budget. He also demanded initiation of suitable steps so that the state could raise loans from the market, since the state government had made required amendment in Financial Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act.
 
 Stating that there was need to revisit the state’s demand for special category status to it, Siddiqui said while presenting the central budget, the Union finance minister should also take note of the fact that the mandatory compliance with the recommendations of the   and revision of the pay and allowances of the state government employees would result in additional burden on the state’s exchequer. He also demanded increase in allotment for 2017-18 from the special package announced by PM Narendra Modi, as the money allotted for 2016-17 has not been utilised. 
 
 He said the Union finance minister, in his central budget, should make a detailed mention of money earmarked by the Centre for the state against respective schemes and projects, as the conventional practice of mentioning merely the allotments made under sub-heads of various schemes and projects does not indicate the state’s share in the allotments made. 
 
 
