RAIPUR: What if   you till your defecation point? On national technology day, TOI reports about a   where CCTV cameras have been set up at various locations in order to keep an eye on criminal activities which co-incidentally also monitors if anyone  . 

 People in Kapsi village in Doundilohara block, now fear to go to defecate in fields and have pledged to build toilets at home or use public toilets as they will be watched by people at control rooms and would be fined. 
 
 While Kapsi village has already achieved its target to go Open Defecation Free, the CCTV cameras keep an eye of its consistency. 
  
 Going true by the idiom 'Ek teer se do nishane' (Hit two with one stone), Kapsi village sarpanch Lekhram Pritam told TOI, "There was a dacoity incident that took place few months ago in the village and few villagers were rounded up and harassed. It was then that I decided to protect my village and residents. My team is progressive and aimed towards going digital; we decided to set up CCTV cameras on streets, town and outskirts. This turned out to be fruitful to curb crime while it also yielded results in village going ODF. People started hesitating going to the fields to relieve themselves as they were conscious if the prying eyes of cameras would capture them and it might get circulated." 
  
 We spotted few people going to the fields with 'lota' in hand which was clearly understood that they were defecating in open. We motivated them towards using public toilets and those built at their homes. 
  
 According to sarpanch, he got inspiration via a TV programme that showed  's native place   where people don't need to lock their doors as the place is 100% safe. 
 
 He aimed to make his village equally safe and secure. Initially few incidents were reported where the team of villagers deployed to monitor CCTV recordings at control room, made fun of few villagers.
 
 They took them as an alarm and have now pledged to build toilets at home or use public toilets. "We feel safe and secure as the crime rate has plunged in our village while without any force and disagreement, we would progress towards going ODF," Sendhram a villager said. 
  
 Sarpanch said that he bought cameras with the help of panchayat and villagers and initially had set six cameras with two computer systems and later he bought ten more cameras with estimated cost of Rs 1.5 lakh. "Four control rooms were set up in the village and separate teams of villagers were formed to monitor the CCTV footage. I didn't take help from administration." 
 
 Talking to TOI, janpad CEO Rohi Temburkar said, "Kapsi is a progressive village and people are excited about the CCTV cameras. While the region has already been declared ODF, consistent vigilance is needed for continuation of using toilets and bring it to their habitual routine. There's a nigrani samiti also that keeps a watch over those carrying 'mugs' to fields that later counsels and then charges fine upon the violators. The cameras are now being more used for ODF purpose than crime."
 
