PATNA: The rising sun heralded Sunday of a different kind for Patnaites who thronged the southern side of the historic Gandhi Maidan and turned the entire stretch from J P Roundabout to Bari Path Mor into ‘Happy Streets’, once again.Organised by   for the second time in the city after winning the first round of applause right from kids to sexagenarians on February 26, the three-hour event from 6.30am brought happiness to many more faces with increased number of activities.
 
  S K Jagdish from Bengaluru, who has been here for the last two years, said, “This is not the   which we heard of. Such events will change the perception about this place and should be organised frequently.”
  
  Kids wearing colourful helmets and knee caps used the stretch for skating like never before. Uttam Kesari, who trains children in skating, admitted that it was not possible for the youngsters to skate so freely and without fear of zooming vehicular traffic on these roads.
  
  Even parents could be seen having gala time with their kids and making the most of their Sunday morning. “After enjoying the previous Sunday, all the kids in my family were excited to come again. In fact, my nine-year-old niece Bhavya woke up at 4:30am and asked us to bring her here,” said Mukul, a chartered accountant, while enjoying with his four-year-old daughter Adya Sinha.
  
  A 50-metre stretch was full of street art drawn by the kids using crayons and colourful chalks. There was also a clay-modelling zone, snakes and ladders board game and hurdles race with skipping ropes and hula hoops at the buddy zone.
  
  Thunderous clappings kept renting the air during the aerobic session supervised by Chandrakanta Khan and Zumba performance by Chumki Das and her troupe.
  
  While many were happy playing cricket, football and badminton right on the road, a street play by   students and a rock band performance by Shiddat band got rounds of applause from the crowd gathered around. Many gathered around the asli-winner zone to try their strength at tug-of-war.
  
  A   conducted by Shashi Kumar and the meditation zone provided proper space to those longing for relaxation after a stressful working week.
  
  With an aim to make roads free of vehicles and noise pollution for a certain period, ‘Happy Streets’ will be back near the S K Puri Children’s Park on March 19 and 26. 
