PUNE: Tension gripped the Savitribai Phule Pune University campus on Monday afternoon as Leftist students’ unions, led by the SFI, staged a silent protest despite not getting permission from police.

 The police had imposed Section 144 IPC (prevention of unlawful assembly) on the campus. Yet, several students participated in the silent demonstration.
 
 Senior inspector Dayanand Dome of the Chatushrungi police said, “We did not give permission to the student activists for organizing programme in the university. But they went ahead with the event. We are consulting our superiors and a call will be taken whether to take action against them or not.”
 
 SPPU vice-chancellor W N Gade said, “We don’t mind students with different ideologies holding debates about their point of view, but it should be done peacefully. No violence of any sorts will be permitted on the campus and strict action will be taken against anybody trying to destroy the peace within the campus.”
 
 Activists of the SFI and ABVP had clashed on Friday night. The flashpoint was some pamphlets of the SFI over the ongoing nationalism row between the two organizations at   in Delhi.
 
 With the students’ elections expected to make a comeback in universities across the state later this year, the Leftist/socialist groups decided to come together to put up a common show against the ABVP on the issue. Various student groups like Phule-Shahu-Ambedkar Students’ Union, Progressive Students’ Union, Dr Bababsaheb Ambedkar Students’ Association and Dalit Panther came in support of the SFI.
 
 “The (Friday night’s) protest was planned against three issues. First, the attempt to saffronise the education institutes and what happened in Ramjas College. Second, education minister Vinod Tawde’s threat phone calls to some Solapur students. Third, a BJP leader’s distasteful comments on Army officials’ wives. But the ABVP supporters turned violent against us over the posters which talked about Tawde. Today (on Monday) we are protesting against the ABVP’s violence and all the above issues,” said SFI activist Nasir Shaikh.
 
 There was some tension on the varsity campus when police refused to give permission to students gathered around the canteen to protest. But the atmosphere calmed down after cops allowed them to demonstrate peacefully for half-an-hour.
 
 The SFI and other students’ unions backing it questioned the role of the police, asking how the ABVP was given permission to stage a protest, while they were denied permission to demonstrate.
 
 The ABVP did not organize its protest inside the varsity campus, though. It had taken out a protest march from Shaniwarwada to Council Hall.
 
 ABVP’s Pune secretary Pradeep Gawde said, “The Chhatrakranti Morcha was to highlight various challenges students are facing in the education sector. There are 108 demands, including the problems in revaluation, EBC scholarship, basic infrastructure of colleges, need for job-oriented courses and syllabi. We had sought the permission for the protest from police 8-10 days ago.” 
 
