MANGALURU: Mangalureans get ready to vote. You can help send a women’s team from Mangaluru to take part in the Times Women’s Drive (TWD), world’s largest women’s car rally aimed at raising funds for women’s cancer research at the Tata Memorial Centre.

 Enrolled into TWD 2017 are the three women from Mangaluru to give every woman the strength to fight against breast cancer.   (driver), Anu Bhandary (navigator) and Deeksha Nanaiah (correspondent).
 
 The TWD is looking at a total of 1,350 women, from three cities - Mumbai, Pune and Bengaluru - to rev their engines and steer their cars all the way to Goa. The TWD will only select 200 participants from Mumbai; 150 from Pune and 100 from Bengaluru (which will include all districts).
 
 Diviya, earlier a practising advocate in Mumbai, said: “Myself and my friends are here to give every woman the strength to fight against breast cancer and take a step forward towards a positive beginning. We are glad to share that we are participating in TWD 2017. It would be a great contribution by all of you towards raising funds for woman's cancer research just by voting us and letting us be a part of this great experience.”
 
 TWD, an initiative by The  , celebrates the grit and gumption that exists in every woman. It entails a combination of travel and expressing individual freedom while fostering team building and trust. It was a journey that started with 150 cars from Mumbai to Lavasa City to create the first of its kind women’s car rally in India. In eight years, it has scaled up to become a mammoth rally driving 450 cars from three cities, Mumbai, Pune and Bengaluru to Goa. This distance is driven in a Time Speed Distance (TSD) format of rallying and takes two days to complete.
 
 This year TWD title prizes are big. There will be three podium positions each for the Mumbai, Pune and Bengaluru rallies respectively, making a total of nine winning teams. Depending on the standing, the first prize per city carries prizes worth Rs 4.5 lakh (Rs 1.5 lakh per person); Rs 3.3 lakh (Rs 1.1 lakh per person) for the second place and Rs 2.25 lakh (Rs 75,000 per person) for the third place. The best dressed team wins prizes worth Rs 30,000 and the best dressed car wins prizes worth Rs 30,000. This apart, the most active team on social media wins prizes worth Rs 30,000 and the best social message about breast cancer wins prizes worth Rs 30,000.
 
 With 34,143 votes, Diviya is currently in seventh position in Bengaluru group and 33rd overall. The last date for voting is April 2. To vote for Diviya logon to 
 
 http://timeswomensdrive.com/portfolio-post.php?puid=133
 
 
