NAGPUR: With only one day to go for  , city skies haven’t been boasting of the arrival of kites unlike past years. The National Green Tribunal’s interim nationwide ban on the use of coated manja for flying kites, since the sharp strings pose a danger to humans, animals and birds, may have taken away some of the wind from the kites.

 The green panel’s ban is applicable on nylon, Chinese and  . Even though the police have been strict this year, it has not made a difference to many enthusiasts says Rahul Gujar, a resident of Mahal. “The people I know have found ways to buy Chinese manja from Juni Shukrawari market,” he says.
 
 Abhyankar Nagar Patang Group, consisting of over 40 members, has decided to do way with nylon manja. However, member Shrikant Rathor says nylon manja hasn’t been completely phased out and is available for those who want it. The group promotes social issues through kites. The group will be making their own manja by adding colour to thread.
 
 However, the craze for flying kites is definitely reducing, feel Nagpurians, and demonetisation hasn’t spared this festival either. The wholesale markets of Itwari, Jaffar Nagar are doing anything but brisk business. Shops which used to see crowds well beyond 8pm are now shut by 6pm.
 
 Araf Sheikh, a marketing professional and a resident of Jaffar Nagar, says things have changed due to restrictions. “No one is selling cheap manja. Earlier, one could buy about 200m for Rs100, but this time, several shops aren’t selling loose manja, but insisting that you buy a bundle.” A bundle consists of 5 reels.
 
 One reel comprising 400m, could be bought for Rs400 till last year, he says. This year, the same is priced at Rs500 to Rs700. “Not all parents can afford this for their children,” Sheikh says, adding, “What used to be a two-month-long affair with kites is now reduced to only weekends in Jaffar Nagar.”
 
 Mangesh Rege, a finance professional, also feels that the craze for mobiles and other gadgets has led to reduction in interest for kites among children. “In our time, it used to be the only attraction. Now, only 10 per cent of the kites are seen in the sky,” he says. A resident of Ramdaspeth, Rege says his friend circle won’t be using Chinese manja, since they are aware about its environmental consequences.
 
