PATNA: Junior public prosecutors of the state government working in five Patna courts are virtually paying no heed to Supreme Court’s 2014 order making it mandatory for the states to file monthly report on cases in which accused are given acquittal by courts due to lacunae in investigation. In many cases, even police officers are not consulting prosecution before submitting chargesheet in courts in gross violation of the   ruling.

 In December 2014, the then state principal secretary Amir Subhani had formed two committees – a district level and a state level – to review acquittal cases. However, assistant public prosecutors (APPs), hired by the state government on contract basis, are not submitting the mandatory monthly report to these committees.
 
 The monthly meeting of the two committees was held in Patna civil court on Wednesday. Much to the surprise of public prosecutor   and district prosecution officer Swatantra Veer Singh, none of the APP submitted the acquittal report. Even assistant public officers (APOs), recruited by the government through  , are also flouting the   order. In Patna, there are 130 APPs and 31 APOs. While 95 APPs and 12 APOs function from civil court, the rest are posted in four sub-divisional courts of the district.
 
 In its January 2014 judgment, the apex court had observed, “Every acquittal should be understood as a failure of the justice delivery system, in serving the cause of justice. Likewise, every acquittal should ordinarily lead to the inference, that an innocent person was wrongfully prosecuted. It is therefore, essential that every state should put in place a procedural mechanism, which would ensure that the cause of justice is served, which would simultaneously ensure the safeguard of interest of those who are innocent. The home department of every state should examine all orders of acquittal and record reasons for the failure of each prosecution case. A standing committee of senior officers of the police and prosecution departments should be vested with aforesaid responsibility. The consideration at the hands of the above committee should be utilized for crystalizing mistakes committed during investigation, and/or prosecution, or both.”
 
 However, in Patna, there are no takers for the SC order, or so it seems. “We are fed up now. Despite repeated reminders, APPs are not filing the acquittal report. Last month, only 18 acquittal cases were reported from Patna civil court and the four sub-divisional courts at Patna City, Danapur, Barh and Masaurhi,” public prosecutor Gajendra Prasad said, adding except four major police stations in Patna, the rest of the police stations don’t consult prosecution before filing chargesheet.
 
 “The matter has been brought to the notice of Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj,” he said. “We will now urge Patna district magistrate to take action against non-performing APPs and APOs,” Prasad added.
 
