Amid traditional Gharwali dhol, damau beats being played in the background and beautiful trees all around, several Doonites came together for a   event. Over 3,000 saplings were planted by around 300 youngsters at   held at Rajawala. Different varieties of trees including bamboo, jamun, sheesham, babool and amla, among others were planted on almost two hectares of land to strengthen the forest ecosystem in the area.

  
 
 
  Kashika, one of the participants, said, "Usually people plant around 100 or 200 saplings, but this event saw a plantation of more than 3,000 saplings. The venue for this event was perfect. It is situated in the middle of a forest, making it a wonderful experience for all those who turned up for the event."
 
  
  Members of   group planting saplings at the event
 
 
 
 
 
  Several youngsters took part in this event organized by SPECS (Society of Pollution and Environment Conservation Scientists), JOY(Just Open Yourself) and Department of forest. Jai Sharma, founder of JOY said, "Along with city’s forest department and our volunteers, we plan to come here every 15 days to take care of these saplings. It feels amazing to see a great number of youngsters supporting us in this plantation drive. They come from far flung areas of the city to participate in the event."
  
  
 
 
  Apart from several youngsters, also spotted at the event was former chief minister Harish Rawat. He not only planted saplings, but also played dhol and mingled with the youngsters present at the event. He said, "I am honoured to be a part of this plantation drive. It is great to see so many youngsters taking a keen interest in preserving nature. This is not a one-day activity where you plant trees and then forget about them. Volunteers have promised to come back and take care of these saplings."
 
  
  Former CM Harish Rawat playing dhol at the event (Taresh Dutta/ BCCL)
  
 
 
 
 A bike rally was also organized by Wanderers, a group of bike riders from Doon, along with musical performances by Bhairavas and Auchitya band. Vivek Badoni, the lead singer of Bhairavas band, said, "I enjoyed performing for such an amazing crowd. I sang a few of our original compositions along with a few Bollywood numbers."
 
  
  Participants of the bike rally organized at the event (Taresh Dutta/ BCCL)
 
 -- Akshita.Vohra@timesgroup.com
 
 
