KOLKATA: At least four hours of recording of composer   might have been lost from  , regretted  , Pancham’s maternal uncle on Wednesday, the legendary music director’s 22nd death anniversary. 

 Just before the release of the Rishi Kapoor-starrer ‘Hum Kisise Kum Naheen’, Pancham and Asha Bhonsle had come down to Kolkata. Dasgupta, a film-maker and former station director of Doordarshan Kendra, was a producer at Doordarshan then. Younger to Pancham, he would address him as ‘Tulao’. “I met Tulao and Asha at a hotel. We recorded two hours of their interview along with their songs. It was for a programme on Doordarshan titled ‘Musically Yours: RD Burman 1’. Both of them had sung numbers from the film and narrated anecdotes on them,” he said.
 
 Post retirement, when Dasgupta enquired about this recording, he was told it couldn’t be found. “Another priceless recording done around 1980-81 remains untraced. That was before the advent of colour on television,” he recounted. Pancham, along with Kishore Kumar and Asha Bhonsle, had come for a programme at Netaji Indore Stadium.
 
 When TOI asked Rajat Bose, deputy director general, Doordarshan Kendra, about these recordings, he said, “I am not aware of the status. Back then, we didn’t have much awareness about archiving. But we will try and search them out.” 
 
 Dasgupta pointed out, “Verbally and over email, I was told by Rajat Bose that even the old almirahs where the recordings were kept have long been ‘relocated’ and are being used by ‘other officials’. I wanted a search for the missing programmes but nothing has been done till date.”
 
 The apathy towards Pancham, however, doesn’t end there. The house on 36/1 South End Park, where Pancham had spent 15 years of his life, lies in abject neglect. It was declared a heritage structure in 2006. Built in 1948, the Dev Burmans had moved into the house. It was from here that a young Pancham travelled to the HMV studio in Dum Dum for his first recording. After his grandmother’s death in late 80s, RD sold off the house. But every time he was in Kolkata, he would drop in at the house. “Had this been abroad, the house would have been turned into a museum. I wrote a letter to the local councillor who, I’m told, had forwarded it to the KMC buildings department. But nothing was done,” Dasgupta rued. 
 
 
