THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Authorities of the Government School for Visually Impaired at   here are seeking the help of anganwadi teachers to address the decreasing strength of students.

 The school teachers were planning to identify students with the help of anganwadi workers having grassroots connections. The school would be spreading awareness among parents with blind children on the need for sending their wards to the special school.
 
 The school’s student intake has been on a downslide over the past few years. During the 2011-2012 academic year, the total strength of the school was 34, which declined to 30, 24 and 23, respectively, over the next three years. The school now has 24 students
 
 “We are now focusing on awareness programmes. Teachers visit the ICDS convention and meet anganvadi teachers, informing them of the need for sending blind kids to special schools. The anganvadi teachers help us identify families with blind children. The teachers even visit their homes and make them understand the necessity of giving special education to their kids,’’ school principal   said.
 
 The school has also been imparting IT-based education, besides providing specially designed entertainment activities for students to boost their efficiency and interest in academics.
 
 “The children were taken to Bengaluru and   as part of an educational tour. They were also made to travel by trains, boats and public buses. They are also encouraged to take part in competitions along with normal kids to boost their confidence and skills,’’   said.
 
 As part of the awareness programme, the authorities have also made a braille calendar with train timings and distributed it among 200 blind persons. Also, the authorities had converted to braille the guidelines of general education protection campaign.
 
 The authorities were waiting for the DPI’s sanction for starting high school classes in the coming academic year.
 
 “Seven of our students are seeking admission to the VIII standard,” he said.
 
 Retired teacher   said parents were reluctant to admit their blind children to special schools with a view that their wards should be treated without any prejudice.
 
 “The blind kids are sent to normal schools and by the age of 10 or 11 they realize the mistake and take them to blind school. For subjects like Mathematics, lessons are taught in normal schools by writing on blackboards. In such cases, the blind kids usually stand to lose,’’ Nair said.
 
 
