MUMBAI: On the last Sunday of the campaign season, candidates in the fray for the   reached out to more voters in door-to-door  . Electioneering comes to an end next Saturday.

 Since it was a holiday, candidates said it was a good idea to approach people at home.
 
 “Sunday is always beneficial for campaigning as we manage to meet many residents. During weekdays we meet people in the late evening to discuss our work. On Sunday, we can connect with voters throughout the day ,“ said Devendra Amberkar, the Shiv Sena candidate from Oshiwara-Lokhandwala.
 
 Candidates are approa ching society office-bearers, requesting them to fix their meeting with residents. “We stick to the Election Commission's guidelines related to the campaign timing and try to cover 50 to 60 societies in a day . But on Sunday , we managed to increase connect with people living in housing soci eties,“ said a candidate.
 
 Businessman Bhargav Patel, who is helping his son, Harsh, in his election campaign in Goregaon west, said, “People are usually relaxing at home on Sunday and give us a warm welcome. Residents are responding very positively, even welcoming us at their homes for tea when we approach them. In some instance, residents bluntly told us that they had made up their mind to vote for another candidate, but welcomed us home very affectionately .“
 
 The Congress candidate from Ghatkopar, Pravin Chheda said, “During weekdays most women members remain at home, so Sunday is the best time to meet all family members together.“
 
 1,500 schoolkids to spread awareness on voting by holding rallies in city today
 
 On Monday, nearly 1,500 students from various schools run by the Anjuman-i-Islam will march carrying posters, stickers across various parts of the city urging citizens to vote. The students will be accompanied by their teachers.
 
 The Anjuman-i-Islam has joined hands with the NGO Action for Good Governance and Networking in India to ensure a 50% increase in the voter turnout over the 2012 elections. In 2012, the voter turnout was only 40%. AGNI was invited to hold workshops for teachers to understand the election process and the importance of voting and how to explain it to children. The students will hold rallies in the neighbourhood such as Versova, Kurla, Nagpada, Maulana Shaukat Ali Road. For the first time, AGNI has tied up with the Archdiocesan schools, the Anjuman-i-Islam schools and Jamnabai Narsi school aiming to reach nine lakh parent-voters through the children. 
 
