Mumbai: With   scheduled next month, political parties are brainstorming to name their candidates to bag  , one of the most prestigious wards in the city for both   and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena. And, this time round, even   is keen to jump into the fray, if it decides to go solo.

 This civic election, as this sought-after ward has been reserved for women, parties are looking for ideal candidates who are popular among the masses or from among their leaders’ spouses.
 
 If sources are to be believed, former mayor and Sena MLA Vishakha Raut is the strongest Sena contender from ward 191 G-North ward. Various local and community groups have urged Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray and vibhag pramukh Sada Sarvankar to give her the party ticket for the BMC polls. 
 
 But Sarvankar said the party cannot announce a name as seat-sharing talks are still on with their ally, the BJP. “Though Raut is not very interested in contesting the civic polls, she won’t refuse the honour if the party asks her as she already worked as a mayor and an MLA. Also, locals have suggested her name for the Shivaji Park ward,” he told TOI.
 
 According to   insiders, the party has already finalized Swapna Deshpande, wife of local MNS corporator Sandeep Deshpande, as their face for ward 191. Swapna, said sources, has resigned from her tehsildar’s post as she wants to contest the election. Sandeep refused to comment on his wife’s candidature saying the party is yet to declare the list of candidates. He, however, confirmed that her resignation has been accepted by the state government.
 
 While both Raut and Deshpande are from Dadar, BJP is likely to put up an outsider—Medha Somaiya, a professor at a Matunga college and the wife of BJP MP Kirit Somaiya. “Medha is a resident of Mulund, but as Maharashtrian face—her maiden name is Oak— and being a city BJP office-bearer, she could contest the election from Shivaji Park,” said a BJP office-bearer.
 
 Kirit said it’s the party’s decision whether or not his wife should contest from Shivaji Park or elsewhere. “A few party workers had suggested her (Medha) name for candidature for the BMC polls a couple of weeks ago. However, it is the city BJP president’s decision. If the party feels that she should contest from Shivaji Park, she will,” he said. 
 
 Dadar (W), which houses the Shiv Sena headquarters, has been its bastion for years, but in the 2012 elections, MNS managed to win most of the seats in the area.
 
