JAIPUR: The   which continues to perform poorly in most of the  , even among ‘Bimarou’ states—Bihar,  , Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, has made recovery in the  . The recent Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) states that 23.7% of students of class III can read text meant for standard II. This is second highest among this group, the highest among the group was scored by Odisha with 35.4%.   leads in percentage of children in class V who can do simple division with 28.2%.

 These figures might look impressive but the national average in both the cases is 25.1% and 25.9%, respectively. It means that Rajasthan has scored better than the national average when it comes to its class V students solving simple division. Even when it comes to availability of computers in schools and children using them on the day of field visit by the surveyors, Rajasthan scored above the national average with 10.5%. Other states in the group have Uttar Pradesh (0.6), Bihar (0.8), Odisha (6.4) and Madhya Pradesh (0.3).
 
 The grey area for Rajasthan is the ‘out of school’ girls’ rate which remains second highest in the country. It recorded 9.7 girls in the age group of 6-14. Uttar Pradesh has highest figure of 9.9% girls in the age group of 6-14 who were out of school.
 
 “State progress can be attributed to reforms—staffing pattern, merger of schools (to an extent) and incentive-based teaching appears to make the situation better, at least among the poor socio-economic states in the country,” said K B Kothari, managing trustee of NGO Pratham.
 
 The census report of 2011 also states that out of Rajasthan’s 6.85 crore population, 1.8 crore people are attending educational institutes like schools, colleges, vocational institutes and literacy centres, 2.87 crore people (around 40% of the total population) have never attended any institute. The percentage of population who never attended any institute is next to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar among the ‘Bimarou’ states.
 
 Another grey area which needs immediate attention of the government is the less proportion of women among those attending educational institutes. There are just 73 females for every 100 males receiving education. This is the worst ratio among the ‘Bimarou’ states in the country.
 
 
