It’s that time of the year when you bring out the pichkaaris and colours to celebrate the festival of Holi in full gusto. Celebs are no different. Here’s what they had to say about the festival of colours...

 Aasiya Kazi:
 
  
  
 I go out with my friends, dance and binge on Holi. So, will stick to the plan this year as well. As a kid, I spent countless hours filling up water balloons, throw them at random people and smearing their faces with colour. I am planning to relive my childhood with my niece Aayat, we will fill up balloons and use it as torpedos.
 
 Mubeen Saudagar:
 
  
  
 Most of us actors are busy all the time and rarely get leisure time to spend with our families. Holi gives an opportunity to stay at home with my family, catch up with friends and other extended family members. This year, I might do the same, depending upon my shooting schedule.
 
 Rishina Kandhari:
 
  
  
 Though I go party hopping, I always make time to celebrate Holi with my family, too. It will be no different this year either. We always play dry Holi with herbal gulal as it doesn’t spoil the skin and hair. Also, it requires less water to clean it off. Holi is one day when I let my hair down as if there is no tomorrow.
 
 Amar Upadhyay:
 
  
  
 Holi is one day when television industry gets an official holiday. Like every year, I plan to enjoy the rain dance with my kids and friends in the building. The fun begins when we catch hold of one person in the gang and make him have bhang shots. The fun of the day gets talked about forever. I remember the time I was a scapegoat and given the shots. I would laugh and suddenly begin to cry. The memories remain for lifetime.
 
 Aashka Goradia:
 
  
  
 My memories of Holi dates back to my school. I remember making a lot of water balloons with my cousins through the night before Holi. We’d then burst them on each other the next day. This year, I’m excited to show my fiancé Brent Goble how the festival is celebrated here.
 
 Nupur Alankaar:
 
  
  
 My mother always plans a get-together with my sister and in-laws every Holi. It’s the only time when the entire family comes together in a year. I’m excited and looking forward to the day as I’ll get the time to binge on my favourite dahi-badha, ghujiyas and pedhas. 
 
 Amal Sehrawat:
 
  
  
 This year’s Holi will be celebrated with my wife Neha and son Krishay. I am excited as I have got a partner-in-crime in my son. The day will begin with a kid-party in a kids’ pool, following which we will go to others parties. It’ll be a dry Holi with only organic colours.
 
 Avinash Wadhavan:
 
  
  
 I am basically from Delhi and we used to play Holi real dirty in college. Along with oil paint colours, we used to break those battery cells, extract oil colour from it, mix it with water and smear it on people’s faces. But, now after relocating to Mumbai, I prefer water colours and enjoy drinking thandai with bhang. I remember the time I had thandai; I was laughing the whole day. 
 
 Sahil Salathia:
 
  
  
 Holi is like an annual pass to be as crazy and colourful as you can be for a day! I love how the whole country gets into this vibe of unlimited happiness, cheer within and around each other. I plan to step out with my friends and hop between a few Holi parties with some serious bhang and mithai in my tummy! And this year, I want to start by noon and not 7 am as in the past, as I get exhausted by the time it’s 2 pm. This time I want to go down with the sun going down!
 
 Vahbiz Dorabjee:
 
 
  
 This year’s Holi will be with my parents in Shirdi. I am a Sai Baba bhakt and his blessings are important. We will be carrying organic gulal with us. I plan to go to Pune the same day to play Holi with my school and college friends. It’s been a long time since I celebrated the festival in my hometown. I remember drooling on various delicacies like jalebi and rabdi and try a little bhang too.
 
 Rohan Mehra:
 
 
  
 My favourite memory of Holi will be at my family home in Amritsar. We would start the festivities well in advance. My sisters and other cousins would get together, spend the evening filling water balloons and 
 relishing sweets prepared by mum. The weather would be so pleasant a night before Holi. In the night, we would sit around the Holi fire. Once our mums broke their fast, we would all binge on a scrumptious meal, and sing and dance the night away. I really miss Holi back home in Amritsar. 
 
 
