KOLKATA/MUMBAI: Tammoy Majhi is in a state of shock. On Thursday morning, his neighbour, Amalesh Dhara, came to his house in Dankuni’s Samantapara with his nine-year-old daughter, Anwesha. Amalesh told him he and his wife, Shukla, had to leave for Mumbai as their elder daughter Tanuka, was unwell. He wanted Anwesha to stay with the Majhis till their return. 

 Hours later, Majhi received a call that Tanuka, a national-level diver, had been found dead at her home in Lower Parel, Mumbai. The 22-year-old   was found hanging from a window grill of her house on Thursday. The suicide came to light when a friend visited her home and found it locked from inside while repeated calls to her phone went unanswered.
 
 Tanuka Dhara, who has won several medals in  , was a junior clerk with the   (WR). 
 
 Police said Tanuka’s friend suspected something amiss and broke open the door with the help of some neighbours. They found her hanging from a window grill and rushed her to a hospital where she was declared ‘brought dead’. DCP (zone 3) Pravin Padwal said, “Since the door was locked from inside, it’s a case of suicide. We have not found any foul play yet.” Padwal said no suicide note was found. “The motive behind the suicide is yet to be ascertained,” he added. 
 
 Tanuka recently returned to the city from Kolkata. Amiyo Pal, who runs a kabaddi club in Dankuni, said, “On Monday evening she narrated experience about the shoot she had completed for a Bengali tele serial – Didi No. 1.” Tanuka won the silver (1m springboard) and a bronze (3m springboard) at the senior national aquatics championships in 2016 and 2015 respectively.
 
 A senior WR official said, “She has been winning laurels for the department.” Another official said, “It is a big loss to the department.”
 
 Majhi said Tanuka was upbeat about moving into to her new house in Mumbai for which she had got Rs 27-lakh bank loan. “There is no reason why she would end her life. She had everything to look forward,” Majhi added.
 
