BENGALURU: Despite being a Congress ruled state, Karnataka has taken the lead in the successful implementation of the  's  . The Pradhan Mantri Fasal   (PMFBY) was launched last year amid much fanfare.

 PMFBY, which has been renamed Karnataka Raita Suraksha Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, has covered about 16 per cent of state's farmers so far, according to agriculture department officials. This, they say, is significant considering it seeks to benefit 50 per cent of India's farmers in three years.
 
 “Karnataka and Gujarat have achieved vast coverage in less than a year of the launch,“ said a senior agriculture department official. In Karnataka, 10.12 lakh farmers have opted for crop insurance for the kharif season under PMFBY, which is higher than the 8.72 lakh farmers in the corresponding period in the previous year. In the rabi season, the coverage improved hugely with 4-5 lakh farmers signing up for the scheme.
 
 “Due to severe drought conditions they faced last year, more farmers are opting for crop insurance. We expect to get 20-22 lakh farmers on board by this year,“ said an official.
 
 PMFBY, which replaced the older National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS) and the modified NAIS, seeks to provide comprehensive insurance to farmers against the vagaries of nature at a very low premium of 2 per cent of the insured value for the kharif crop and 1.5 per cent for the rabi crop. The Centre and state share the burden of the difference between the premium charged by the in surance company and that paid by the farmer.
 
 The state government has been actively promoting the scheme by earmarking Rs 675.38 crore in the budget for this fiscal (2016-17) so that farmers don't suffer due to floods, drought and unseasonal rain.
 
 Giving the scheme a shot in the arm, the government rolled out a one-of-its-kind software in June 2016 to enable farmers to register online. The Samrakshane software, linked to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre data, collects real-time weather data, understands the needs of each farmer at various stages of crop growth and ensures quick payment of compensation.
 
 L K Atheeq, principal secretary to the chief minister, said: “Using the software, we can settle claims in just two months instead of 8-10 months.“
 
 Linked to Aadhaar database
 
 Samrakshane software for endto-end automation of the crop insurance process provides an efficient and transparent sys tem for the speedy delivery of benefits and risk cover to the farming community . It generates a unique number for each farmer to keep track of agricultural activities to insure the crop against loss or damage.“The system is linked to the Aadhaar database of farmers for direct payment into their bank accounts; they are informed of the status through SMS and a dedicated portal,“ Atheeq said. It includes a mobile application will enables farmers to report crop loss.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 While nearly 60% of the population is dependent on agriculture, it remains a risky and uncertain occupation, given the vagaries of floods and droughts in Karnataka. In such a scenario, the improvized Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) crop insurance scheme has become imperative to sustain the agriculture sector and raise the socioeconomic status of farmers. The advent of technology would also lead to significant benefits for farmers, including faster settlement of claims and lower risk. The state government has set an inspiring precedent for the country in promoting a central scheme, by rising above petty politics. It would do more wonders if it can take the lead in encouraging ryots to habitually include insurance in their budgets. The only way this can be achieved is by increasing the spread of insurance cover and ensuring the scheme reaches the farmer who needs it most.
 
