AURANGABAD: The proposed reforms in   announced by   Arun Jaitley in the Annual Budget 2017 like setting up of  , rolling out system of measuring annual learning outcomes and promoting skill development among youth should become reality in time-bound manner, said experts and stakeholders.

 Sharad Advant, general secretary of advocacy group Marathwada Janta Vikas Parishad, said the reforms, if implemented, would strengthen education system in the country.
 
 “The focus should be on strengthening of existing system instead of expansion. Thousands of schools, especially those run by the state, need proper attention. The reforms announced in the annual budget should become reality,” he said.
 
 On forming of National Testing Agency — an autonomous and self-sustained premier testing organisation to conduct all entrance examinations for higher education institutions — Advant said it would streamline schedule of different examinations and avoid clashing of dates.
 
 While the union budget has also announced setting up of 100 International Skills Centres, experts sought status of similar schemes launched by the previous UPA government in the Centre.
 
 “The previous government had introduced National Skill Development Mission (NSDM) with initiatives like facilitating Vocation Training Providers for imparting desired skill-sets to target population and setting up Community Service Centres to ensure employment to skilled worked force announced as objectives. The budget talks about somewhat similar scheme and therefore current government should clarify on the fate of past scheme as public money was involved for its execution,” said educational counsellor Vivek Velankar.
 
 Education activist Tukaram Saraf said the annual budget was allegedly silent on total expenditure to be made on school education sector and higher education sector. 
 
 “It is tricky to figure out what expenses government would incur in the education sector. While some major announcements have been made, no word is there on money to be spent on executing proposed reforms and initiatives,” he said. As per official releases, budgetary provisions can be found for the proposed Skill Acquisition and Knowledge Awareness for Livelihood Promotion programme (SANKALP) to be launched at a cost of Rs 4,000 crore.
 
 
