THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After the state government and district administration dilly dallied for over a year on acquiring land for second phase of   - Kaliyikkavila   project, the latter finally took a bold decision with regard to the project. It has forcefully evicted seven families and a  , who had been refusing to vacate the land, though without much protest. 

 Based on the order of district collector K Vasuki, a team of revenue officials forcefully evicted the families on Tuesday morning. With this, the district administration was able to clear major hurdles in the stretch. Now the national highway wing of PWD will continue with tender proceedings. 
 
 A team of officials, including thahasildar Sajikumar, deputy thahasildar Manoj R, revenue inspectors Pramod and Sunil Kumar, led the   drive. The eviction work, which started by around 6am, was completed by around noon after clearing three houses in Ayanimoodu, two in Poonkodu and two at Kodinada. Though owner of a building cleared all shops after receiving compensation, the branch of Tamilnadu Mercantile Bank, which functioned in the building at Kodinada, refused to move out. It too was cleared on Tuesday.
 
 After it fixed compensation in 2015, the district administration was successful in getting consent from over 1,000 house owners and around 500 shop owners in Pravachambalam-Kodinada stretch. Only nine persons refused to agree. Of this, one person has filed a case with the high court. The remaining were evicted on Tuesday. Sources in district administration said that compensation for those who were forcefully evicted has been deposited at court. 
 
 After the eviction on Tuesday, the district administration has completed all land acquisition works for Pravachambalam-Kodinada stretch. Now the only hurdle remaining in the stretch is around 21 families in the puramboke land in the ‘Rajapatha’ near Pravachambalam. “Since they live in puramboke land, they are not eligible for compensation as others. However, on humanitarian grounds, we have requested government to provide some compensation for them too,” said a district administration official.
 
 Meanwhile, PWD minister G Sudhakaran is also taking steps to bring an end to the allegation that the project is getting delayed. Minister has convened a meeting at 5pm on Wednesday at Town Hall, Neyyatinkara. It will be attended by Neyyatinkara MLA K Ansalan, Parassala MLA C K Harindranath and Kattakkada MLA I B Sathish. Ansalan said that the meeting will discuss next phase of works to connect the stretch to   in the Kerala-TN border. 
 
 
