BENGALURU: Holding a party or hosting a lunch on the road in front of your house? You need to get a No-objection Certificate from civic authorities to host the event, besides paying a solid waste management fee of Rs 2,000 if more than 100 people attend it. The organizers are also responsible for ensuring waste segregation at source and handing over the segregated waste to specified collectors/agencies.

  officials admitted that neither has anyone sought an   under this clause from Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 nor have they acted against anyone for breaching the rule. Civic officials also admitted that not many of them, especially those in the lower rungs, are even aware of the rule.
 
 Sarfaraz Khan, joint director, solid waste management and health, BBMP, told TOI there is a need to bring about awareness among the public. “Not many are aware of these rules. There is need to make this known and implement them,” he said.
 
 NS Mukunda, member, Citizens’ Action Forum, said even RWAs didn’t know about the rule. “It only means that BBMP has not made it known to the public. There is need to publicize it,” he said.
 
 In July 2015, at the peak of the garbage crisis in the city, BBMP issued a public notification on similar lines. The notification stated that any public event that has more than 5,000 participants must be informed to the BBMP and permitted by it along with a security deposit ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 3 lakh depending on the number of participants. 
 
 The BBMP refunds the deposit within seven days after the end of event, subject to the organizer fulfilling their obligations. This is applicable to events held at  , open grounds, parks, palace grounds, streets and public utility earmarked lands belonging to the BBMP.
 
 The notification said the organizer was expected to ensure placement of adequate waste collection bins with signage and adequate public conveniences at her own cost. Cleaning staff had to be deployed and the organizer has to return the premises in a clean state. Failure to do so would result in forfeiture of the deposit.
 
 N S Ramakanth, solid waste management expert who has volunteered to reduce waste generation at public events, said there is a lack of awareness. “Whenever there is a marathon in the city, I volunteer to make sure the city is not awash in garbage. Segregation at source can solve the problem,” said Ramakanth, who played a key role in framing the notification.
 
 
 
 
 No person shall organise an event or gathering of more than 100 persons at any unlicensed place without intimating the local body, at least three working days in advance and such person or the organizer of such event shall ensure segregation of waste at source and handing over of segregated waste to waste collector or agency as specified by the local body.
 
