On a road trip and looking for refreshments? A quick search today shows the near search today shows the nearest motel, restaurant or resort, but not so long ago it was the government bungalows on the highways which came to the rescue of weary travellers. One such building on a patch of green is off   in   , behind the bus terminus, nearly 40km from Chennai.

 Popular till a decade ago, residents of the area remember both officials and general public using the bungalow for brief stays. Now an abandoned structure in need of repair, the travellers' bungalow was the only accommodation in the locality at a time when few lodging options were available.Catering to government employees and public for more than 50 years.
 
 Overgrown by thickets, few now take the narrow road to the bungalow except for those who may have lost their way . The servant quarter on the premises is dilapidated and the well almost dry , but the spartan red-tiled roof building with a couple of rooms has a cozy air about it.
 
 The caretaker, an old woman, occupies a room and keeps the `thinnai' (verandah) clean, but this is all as far as maintenance of the structure, owned by the state highways department.
 
 A few residents recollect a time when the paint had not peeled and there were so many visitors that the road leading to it was known as the Travellers' Bungalow Road. “It is one of three travellers' bungalows between   and   on GST Road. It was a solace for officials travelling to southern districts as no lodges or hotels were available in the vicinity,“ says 66-year-old Ethirajan. Visitors would sit on easy chairs on the portico in the evenings with a cup of tea and fritters, he recalls.
 
 Such facilities, says history enthusiast  , were also called `Musafiri' (traveller) bungalows during the British era.“They were meant for government officers, who would stay briefly during official visits to a place,“ he says, while recounting his stay in one such facility in the 1940s.
 
 A highways department officials says they plan to send a proposal to the government to repair the bungalow at Guduvancherry and throw it open to the public again.
 
 Noticed something interesting of late? Email us at stumbledupon@timesgroup.com
 
 
