BENGALURU: It took 11 years for Surat to change its image after it was hit by plague in 1994. Today, the Gujarat city is considered one of the cleanest in the country. In 2012, Bengaluru faced the ignominy of being labelled as the nation’s dirtiest metropolis; the   was given the tag of Garbage City. Four years on, the tables have turned, with Bengaluru’s micro-policy for solid waste management likely to be emulated across the nation under the   scheme.

 Already in pilot mode in ward number 7 (Byatarayanapura) and ward number 8 (Kodigehalli), the BBMP is expanding the micro-policy across the city. Under it, an autorickshaw will collect waste from 750 homes in one trip, instead of the earlier 1,000 or 1,500 houses. They will have a fixed time between 7am and 11am to collect waste.
 
 The autos will assemble at a collection point and transfer waste to a compactor/truck to dispose it at landfills. There’ll be a second round of collection in the afternoon; autos will collect waste from the city’s ‘black spots’ where it is generally found strewn.
 
 BBMP special commissioner (SWM)   said all these GPS-fitted autos and trucks will be tracked to ensure efficiency. Resident welfare associations (RWAs) will be intimated about the timing and route of the autos. The Palike will introduce a biometric mechanism by using the services of   (BSNL) to tag all pourakarmikas in the city.
 
 “With biometrics at the ward level, we will have the exact number of people being deployed by the contractor the BBMP in each ward,” he said. The bills and release of money will be tagged to these conditions and integrated by the civic agency by using a special software to track disposal. All these conditions and more will be included in the new set of tenders to be called by BBMP later this year.
 
 From February 1, the RWAs and contractors will be issued notices that wet waste will be collected every day and dry waste only twice a week to ensure better management. 
 
 Sarfroz Khan said a team from the Swachh Bharat mission was in the city earlier this month to seek details of the micro-project.
 
