Eighteen artists and writers from the city have collaborated to come out with a   that is a tribute of sorts to the city of Bengaluru. Through nine illustrated stories conceptualized by a mix of established artists as well those just breaking into the field, the anthology portrays a vision that melds past, present and future of the city in their signature styles.
Speaking about the novel,  , creative director of a graphic novel publishing house, says, “The novel is the second part of our   series, in which we try to capture the essence of a region through graphic art. The idea for Bengaluru came after our first for Hyderabad in 2014 became a hit, and we invited various artists across the city to send in their ideas. While the e-book version of this novel was released in February earlier this year, owing to a lot of request for it to be an actual book, we’ve also brought out the hard-copy version.”
 The stories range from a variety of topics. One imagines Bengaluru 20 years from now, while another looks back at the city that was. The other elements include a fictional occult ‘origin’ story, ATM theft, and more.
 
 
  
 
 Speaking about the experience, Sreejita Biswas, who goes by the name Solo and has written the story about a vigilante operating from the roofs of Bengaluru, says, “Ojo, my junior from college, and I have been working together for a while now, coming up with graphic comics every Sunday for our webzine, which have even been published in  . In that respect, this has been an extension of the work we have been doing. It has been quite interesting to have contributed to a novel that is a tribute to this beautiful city.”
 Artist Appupen, whose story is the first in the novel, says, “A book of this sort has never been done for Bengaluru before. I hope people do not consider this as just a comic book for light reading, and instead spend a little more time exploring the finer aspects of our drawing and stories. A lot of thought has been put into the stories in this book, and fully experiencing will make you appreciate both the artists and the city better.”
 
