CHENNAI: In 2015,   reported 421 cases of rape, 1,361 cases of  , 909 incidents of   and 65 dowry deaths. Despite this, the state has not asked for allocation of any funds under the central government’s   of `1,000 crore. The CAG noted theta the state " has not even sent its views to the Centre", the primary requirement to make effective use of the funds.

 Under the fund, the state has access to capital to set up control rooms to monitor public transport in cities with population of more than 1 million. That would mean four cities in TN -- Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy -- would have been eligible for a central grant to improve the safety of women. It must be noted that in recent months there have been many incidents of stalking -- most notably the death of 22-year-old IT professional S Swathi at the Nungambakkam railway station -- that have highlighted the need for Chennai to have better systems in place.
 
 Activists say there is a false sense of security in TN. "Crimes against women have more than doubled over the past 10 years. NCRB statistics shows in 94% cases the victims were familiar to the accused, which includes neighbours, relatives and parents. The most vulnerable are those aged between 14 and 30 years," says Kirthi Jayakumar, lawyer, Red Elephant Foundation. 
 
 The CAG report mentions that as early as August 2013, the principal secretaries and transport commissioners of different states instructed all zonal officers to send their views. But only a few zones responded. TN did not send in its view, avail of the funds or set up any control rooms as envisioned under the Nirbhaya scheme.
 
 Police say the TN situation in relation to women's safety should not be viewed just on the basis of number of cases getting registered. "In less developed states, women don’t even file complaints. In TN women are likely to press charges and even take it all the way to court. Another point is that some of these cases of sexual harassment, kidnapping, abduction are filed by parents to prevent inter-caste marriages. We’ve seen quite a few cases, where parents have given false complaints," says A Subramanian, inspector general of police, Madurai.
 
 
