CHENNAI: With the proposed second airport at Sriperumbudur remaining a non-starter, the civil aviation ministry is considering an abandoned airstrip at   on the northern fringes of Chennai to decongest the airport at Meenambakkam.

 The strategically located airstrip figures in the final list of Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS) which seeks to promote affordable regional air connectivity.
 
 Nestled between the Puzhal reservoir and Sholavaram lake and located about 25km from the city, the airstrip is well connected by road. It is a few kilometres off GNT Road, a national highway, and is situated on Red Hills-Tiruvallur Road providing easy access to the western suburbs. The airstrip is in the vicinity of the upcoming   linking Vandalur and Minjur.
 
 The airstrip dates to the Second World War when it was used by Britain’s Royal Air Force for anti-submarine operations. In the 1950s, the airstrip was used as a race track by motorsport enthusiasts; this continued till the 1980s. At present, it is under the control of the Indian Air Force.
 
 Under RCS, the ministry of civil aviation plans to revive many such unused airstrips. If the Sholavaram facility is spruced up, it can decongested the Chennai airport by absorbing smaller aircraft like ATRs and Bombardiers which constitute around 20% of the total flight movement at Meenambakkam.
 
 “The state government should interest to develop it. We can provide infrastructure like a small air traffic control unit and passenger facilities. Many of the chartered planes and helicopters can be moved to the new facility,” a senior official of   (AAI) said.
 
 Residents say a good portion of the facility was encroached upon for 20 years before the IAF took control and built a compound wall to safeguard the runways. Sentries have been posted to prevent unauthorised entry.
 
 According to residents of Nallur village, under which the airstrip partially falls, the other panchayat being Attathangal, people living on the land were evicted by the British to set up the airstrip. “After the war it remained idle. Later, it was used for racing,” said Kannan, a resident of Nallur. But after the suspension of motorsports, said Kannan, around 50% of the land belonging to the airstrip was illegally gobbled up for housing projects. Houses and warehouses near the runway mean very little space on either side for safety buffer, an impediment for the airstrip’s renovation.
 
 Besides, said air safety expert  , “The airstrip is on the takeoff and landing path of the main runway of Chennai airport. There should not be anything flying around 2,000 feet at Sholavaram. If at all the airstrip needs to be used, the flight movement at Chennai airport may have to be controlled.”
 
