However, organisers at   resort claim that driver was drunk and created a ruckus

 
  prevailed at a New Year’s bash at a private resort in Yelahanka after bouncers deployed at the venue assaulted and injured a 31-year-old cab driver staying in the vicinity. The man had entered the resort, with his wife, on the insistence of five-year-old son, who wanted to dance on the stage.
 
 MC Satish, a cab driver from Allalasandra, managed to sneak into the resort after ‘bribing’ the gatekeepers with Rs 300 and panicked when he could not find his son after the organisers switched off the lights at midnight. He went frantically searching for his son when he bumped into the bouncers and got battered and thrown out of the event even as he was pleading with them to be allowed to look for his child.
 
 Finally, some of the guests took him inside and he started making announcements seeking help to locate his son and one of the local residents however had taken the child to safety amidst the commotion and handed him over to the worried mother. The event had to be cut short and the police were called to the venue and an FIR was later registered against the organisers on the basis of the victim’s complaint.
 
 “My home is just 500 metres away from the resort. I could not afford the admission rates and I paid Rs 300 to the security guard at the gate to enter the resort. My kid likes dancing and so I took him near the stage. At midnight, some children were called on to the stage and he also managed to sneak up along with them,” Satish told BM.
 
 But when the organisers switched off the lights with his son up on the stage, he panicked and decided to search for him. Satish also added that the bouncers caught him and refused to listen to his pleas and started to rough him up. “I kept requesting them to allow me to pick up my son. But the seven of them started beating me. They dragged me on the stairs and brought to the centre of the ground and beat me again. I was thrown outside the resort,” he said.
 
 Satish finally managed to convince some of the people to allow him inside the resort just to look for his missing child and take him home. He started making
 announcements seeking his child, which his wife managed to hear at their home adjacent to the resort.
 
 Satish admitted that when the organisers refused to answer his wife’s queries later, she broke a beer glass in frustration.
 
 “Before coming to the resort, I had partied with my friends and had consumed alcohol and the event organisers presumed that I was lying. Later, we went to the police station and filed a complaint. The Yelahanka police have promised to take action,” he added.
 
 
  
 THE OTHER VERSION
 
 However, the event organisers claimed that a ‘drunk couple’ created ruckus at the venue, claiming that their son got lost at the venue. They also claimed that they were inebriated and did not even realise that their son was actually not with them and was with his grandmother.
 
 We had organised Rio Carnival 2017 at Royal Orchid Resort in Yelahanka. DJ Olly Esse was performing when the couple created the ruckus, claiming their son had gone missing, when the boy was actually at his grandmother’s house. Two of my friends who tried to stop him (Satish) were beaten up. One of my friends sustained a fracture on the hand while the other was left with a black eye. Even his wife started created nuisance by throwing glasses and other items. The CCTV at the resort has captured the ruckus and the local police have seen it too. The couple disappeared when the police came,” event organiser Vivek Kumar Bharati, of BRAINBOX Media, told BM.
 
 However, Satish clarified that his mother and father stay in Mandya while his wife does not have both her parents and the organiser’s claim that his son was at his grandmother’s house was false. The case is still under investigation. Police are going through the CCTV footage.
 
 
