SONBHADRA:   in this part of the state have defeated   but have been branded a ‘threat to the state’. They now say their vote would go to the candidate who will work for the implementation of the Forest Rights Act (FRA) 2006 and for withdrawal of criminal cases against them.

 United by mass movements, these   have been fighting for the rights of tribals and forest workers on forest land and produce since 2000. Similar struggles are under way in other parts of the state, too. Together, these movements forced the central government in 2006 to enact FRA which provided   and forest workers the right on forest land. 
 
 After its enactment, a struggle began to get the Act implemented. Though it met with little success, it made the tribal youth gravitating towards ‘armed revolution’ realise that rights can be achieved democratically, thus playing in important role in defeating Naxalism in the area.
 
 “Since tribals constitute less than 2% of UP’s population and are scattered across the state, they are not considered as vote bank. In Sonbhadra, however, tribal and forest workers make up 60% of the population. We have joined hands with Dalits, taking the strength to 80%. Duddhi and Obra assembly constituencies of the district have been reserved for Scheduled Tribes. Now, our voice will be heard,” said Sukalo Gond (55), leader of the Kaimur Kshetra Majdoor Kisan Mahila Sangharsh Samiti (KKMKMSS), an association of tribal and forest workers. The association now has more than 40,000 members and the unique part is that it is led by women.
 
 FRA is important for tribals. Tribals were owners of the forests since ages. They protected forests and used its produce for food, shelter and daily needs. The British created the forest department in 1865 for commercial purposes and made tribal slaves in their homes. Their status remained unchanged even after independence. In the late 80s, things deteriorated when forest dwellers were declared encroachers and driven out of forests in the name of conservation. Some rose in revolt and between 2000 and 2005 and joined   groups. But after FRA, no major Naxal violence has been reported in Sonbhadra in the past 10 years.
 
 However, all was not easy. When land titles under FRA were not distributed till 2008, women occupied over 250 hectares of land in different parts of the district and started tilling. In retaliation, the administration lodged criminal cases against them charging them with rioting, poaching, illegal tree-felling, hampering government work and encroaching forest land. Some were booked under National Security Act on charges of being Naxal sympathizers. But these women continued on their path. What they say to political parties now is, “Ek hath se do aur doosare se lo (Give us our rights and we will vote for you in return)”.
 
 “It (this movement) serves a dual purpose. Besides fighting for tribal rights, women leadership helps in ending male dominance. The more women have a say in the family, the better is the future,” said Rajkumari (49), a member.
 
 Both Sukalo and Rajkumari have over a dozen criminal cases against them. They have been to jail several times and are out on bail, but they are not ashamed of it. “In Sonbhadra, only 10% tribal and forest workers have got benefit of FRA so far. Of the total 93,644 claims filed in UP till December 2016, only 18,555 have been approved. The rest were rejected on technical grounds. We will have to fight, come what way,” they said.
 
 “These women are more aware and empowered than their counterparts in other parts of the state. They have now started taking decisions at home, ensure that their kids go to school and decide where and for whom to vote,” said Pramila, an activist working with tribal women.
 
 Formed in 2000 with the help of All India Union of Forest Working People, KKMKMSS has been named after the Kaimur hill range of Sonbhadra. It is home to 16 Scheduled Tribes including Agariya, Chero, Gond, Dhuriya, Nayak, Ojha, Rajgode, Khairwar, Kharwar, Pankha, Panika, Parahiya, Bhuiya, Bhuniya, Pathari and Baiga. 
 
 
