NOIDA: The 
  last week that promised returns for hitting “likes“ online is now the subject of a multi-agency investigation. On Sunday, the 
  in Noida, Ghaziabad and Kanpur related to 
  , the 26-year-old kingpin of the scam, his wife Ayushi and four companies they ran -Ablaze Info Solutions Pvt Ltd, Social Trade Pvt Ltd, 3W Digital Pvt Ltd and Intmaart Pvt Ltd.

 The income tax department, Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) and Hyderabad Police have also started their own investigations into what is estimated to be a 
  , which makes it bigger than the Saradha scam that unravelled in West Bengal in 2013.
 
 The ED raid came after its Lucknow office registered a case under the  . Additional director of ED's Lucknow zone Rajeshwar Singh said, “Searches have resulted in recovery of incriminating documents.“ The Rs 3,700-crore scam estimate was made by UP Police's Special Task Force, which busted the racket in Noida on February 2, on the basis of total deposits made.
 
 While the agencies scrambled to gather evidence, there was a show of support for Mittal at Delhi's Jantar Mantar. Nearly 4,000 investors, who had made money from 
  , gathered to seek “justice“ for him and insisted his business wasn't a “scam“ but an “opportunity“.
 
 Senior STF officers, who did not wish to be named, said there was pressure from various circles to go easy on Mittal and his “contacts“ were trying to influence the investigation.
 
 Documents seized from Mittal's office in Noida revealed a huge sum of money had been laundered through different routes, officials said. The STF has frozen Rs 510 crore in 12 accounts, in several banks, linked to Mittal's companies. “The documents recovered are likely to be useful in the recovery of cheated funds as well as properties acquired out of proceeds of crime beyond the frozen amount of Rs 500 crore,“ the ED said in a statement. The agency has also asked the banks to provide details of transactions to investigate the money trail and the big transfers that took place to park the cash before the racket was busted.
 
 Singh said they would seek Mittal's custody in court on Monday. Mittal, his CEO Shridhar Prasad and aide Mahesh Dayal are in judicial custody at Greater Noida jail.
 
 Through his scheme, Social Trade, that netted around 6.5 lakh investors, Mittal offered money to investors for `liking' posts on social media profiles to increase traction and promote some web pages. Memberships cost between Rs 5,750 and Rs 57,500 and a return of Rs 5 was offered per `like'.
 
 Mittal's wife Ayushi, a co-director in the companies, lives in Kanpur but has gone “underground“, according to investigators. His father Suneel was a co-director of Ablaze when it was formed in 2011. But he strategically quit the company and began an electronics shop in Hapur, where he is from.
 
 Mittal senior, however, continued to hold joint accounts with his son whom he “ousted“ from ancestral property in 2016.An STF team visited Suneel's house on Sunday but did not find him there. An investigating officer said Suneel had timed his exit strategically to evade police action
 
