Barcelona: The government is looking at a fresh round of spectrum auction between July and December and will send a recommendation to the telecom regulator soon, a top official said on Tuesday. “We are looking to do a spectrum auction every year so that telcos can plan their needs, whether they need to trade it, buy it from someone else or come to the auction. This ensures complete certainty and policy stability,   J S Deepak told reporters on the sidelines of the  .

 “And we are soon going to send a request to   for recommendations for the next auction, which I believe would be held between July and December. It will be annual auction done every year. How much of spectrum to be sold, the price, newer spectrum bands — all issues will be considered,” he said. Deepak said the government is not worried about unsold spectrum. Bharti chairman   had said on Monday that he does not see any spectrum sale in 2017-18 as operators had tanked up on spectrum.
 
 Deepak said, “We are not worried if there is no demand for spectrum. We don’t get hassled if spectrum remains unsold. But we would like to give opportunity to the industry to buy spectrum as and when they need.”
 
 “They have the choice to buy it from another operator through trading, they have a choice to buy every year from the market from us so that they should never have this feeling of being deprived short or scarce of spectrum. This is a huge change that has come in the market which has been recognised here as well,” he said.The telecom secretary said that before July, the department will come out with a policy for use of various spectrum bands, including high frequency bands.Deepak reiterated his views on consolidation backing five operators in the space.“If you look at the competition index for India, what it shows broadly competition goes up as the operators increase till it reaches five after that it plateaus out,” he said. The level of competition is the same whether there are five operators or 10 or 12 as we had earlier. Fragmentation of spectrum is an issue we want to avoid. So after five there is needless fragmentation of spectrum without increasing competition. This the background in which I say that five is optimum,” Deepak said.
 
 Deepak said that telecom commission’s letter to TRAI on revenue loss for the government after Reliance Jio’s entry has been delivered.
 
 “The fact that they were worried about the decrease in government revenues as well as the potential impact to the health of the industry is something to be noted and we have conveyed the views of the Telecom Commission to TRAI,” Deepak said.
 
 The telecom secretary said the government was working to ensure that it takes a leap on   and is issuing guidelines on use of high frequency spectrum bands. “We are very keen to be with the world. We have done a lot of preparation. We came out M2M guideline (machine-to-machine) in 2015. We have issued a draft service providers guidelines on which we have got comments. We were late in 3G and 4G and we were very keen that should not be deprived of 5G. It is not only a communication issue, it is a productivity issue for industry. It has wider applications in smart cities and grids and all kinds of things,” he said.
 
 “The policy for use of higher frequency spectrum bands is something which is getting a lot of attention. In the next three months we should be coming out with policy on use of higher frequency spectrum including for 5G,” he said.
 
 
