MUMBAI: As   was fighting his way to a gritty 68 in Pune on Thursday , almost 10,000km away, his proud father was following every minute of his innings.

 Ian Renshaw, a university lecturer in Brisbane, cycled home from work as fast as possible to relish Matt's gallant show against the Indian spinners. “We're proud of him,“ the senior Renshaw told TOI from his residence on Thursday . 
 
 The effort was creditable for someone whose only exposure to Asian conditions was when he turned out for the Australian Under-19 team while touring Sri Lanka. “I enjoyed his batting. He trusted his defence and was brave in attack. He also hit his first six in Test cricket, which was fun,“ Ian said. It didn't matter to the 53-year-old that many former Australian cricketers, including former captain Allan Border, were scathing in their criticism of his son for retiring at 36 before lunch due to a dodgy stomach. “If you have to go what do you do? Maybe there should be a five-minute medical break like in tennis,“ said Ian.
 
 With Ian himself being a keen cricketer, it was a matter of time before his son fell in love with cricket. “He was brought up with the game and always loved it. We played a lot in the backyard,“ Ian reminisced. Renshaw's heroes, Ian revealed, are former England captain   and ex-Australia batsman   . 
 
 Both were great left-handed batsmen, who didn't give away their wickets cheaply , and it's natural that Renshaw wants to follow in their footsteps. Renshaw's comfort at the crease, surprising for someone who was playing his maiden Test in India, is the result of methodical preparation. Ian, who also doubles up as his son's coach, made Matt bat on a pitch with old bits of boundary fencing to get used to the rough pitches in India.“At times, we used soil thrown down or plastic fencing pieces placed on a length. We have worked a lot on playing spin over the years.“
 
 While his girlfriend Josie was at the MCA Stadium to cheer for Matt, his parents will arrive to watch the second Test at Bengaluru. They were at the SCG last month too, when Renshaw cracked 184 against Pakistan to announce his arrival.
 
 
