JAIPUR: While solving the murder   of a 23-year-old woman who was killed a day back, police have arrested a 45-year-old man in this connection. Police said the woman was live-in partner of the accused and the accused wanted to get rid of her. 

 Police had already identified and summoned the accused for questioning on Tuesday late evening. “The accused, identified as Neeraj Kumar, was arrested by our team. He was working as a tailor at Sukiya village near Mohana in a garments export factory,” said a senior police officer on Wednesday. 
 
 Police said after strangulating and smashing head of the victim, the accused also set her body on fire at a room behind the factory to ensure she doesn’t get identified. 
 
 Police said the   was an outcome of a prolonged live-in relationship which turned awry for the accused. “It was found that the accused married   in 2009 and started living in a rented accommodation. In 2014, he had opened a small factory in which he used to get orders for tailoring. During then, he met the victim, identified as   (23), a native of Cooch Behar,  . The woman was looking for a job and Neeraj offered her to work in his factory,” said Manish Agarwal, deputy commissioner of police (North) while talking to TOI on Wednesday. 
 
 “Everything was going well as the accused was staying with his legal wife and had also established physical relations with Promila and was in live-in relationship with her. Last year, Promila gave birth to a girl. Things twisted in other direction when Neraj along with his wife adopted their niece as daughter, which Promila resisted,” Agarwal added. 
 
 Promila, who have birth to a girl child, continued to confront with Neeraj stating if she had a daughter then why the couple have adopted another girl. “One day, Promila called up wife of the accused and narratedthe whole story. That’s when Neeraj thought of eliminating her. As per plan, he strangulated her, smashed her head on the wall and later set the body on fire,” said Agarwal. 
 
 
