AHMEDABAD: A city-based woman has filed a   and   for torturing her as she was the mother of two girls, and had failed to give birth to a  . 

 She has also alleged that during her second pregnancy, her in-laws had urged her to undergo a  , which she had refused. When her second child, too, turned out to be a girl, the family had turned vicious.
 
 The woman Nancy (name changed) has lodged a complaint with women’s police station under sections 498C, 323, 506(1) and 114 of the IPC against her husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law.
 
 Police officials said they have registered an FIR and will take action once the details mentioned in the FIR have been verified.
 
 According to the complaint, the 37-year-old woman, hailing from Nasik, was married to one Manoj Vaghela (name changed) of Anand in May 2003.
 
 “After marriage, she used to live in Mumbai, as her husband worked in a private company there. A year after marriage, Nancy gave birth to a girl,” said a police official.
 
 Nancy has alleged in her complaint that neither her husband nor her in laws were affectionate towards the girl and taunted Nancy for failing to give birth to a boy, said a police official, adding that the complaint mentioned her husband used to torture her daily demanding she gives birth to a male child.
 
 “In 2007, Vaghela sold off his Mumbai residence and shifted to Ahmedabad as he had taken a new assignment here,” said a police source.
 
 Meanwhile, Nancy became pregnant again. According to her, her in-laws wanted her to undergo a prenatal sex determination test, but she opposed, and in 2010 gave birth to another girl.
 
 “Nancy has mentioned in her complaint that this time around no one came to see the baby. Instead, they asked her to get money from her parents for upkeep of the girls,” said a police source.
 
 In her complaint Nancy has stated, said the source, she even handed over to her husband the inheritance she had received after her father died.
 
 “Nancy has alleged that even then Vaghela continued to   and on March 20, asked her to leave the house with her two daughters. Nancy has sustained injuries on her hand,” said a police official.
 
 
