NEW DELHI: Delhi University’s centralised online registration portal remained under maintenance for the fourth consecutive day. The authorities were planning to upload the admission bulletin on the portal on Thursday, which was not done till late in the evening. 

 Lack of information on admission guidelines on the portal brought more aspirants and anxious parents to the Open Day at  . Several issues were raised by the parents, like the non-functioning tab on academic details, which has been disabled till the CBSE moderation issue is resolved. 
 
 Many aspirants complained that the volunteers at the help desk were unable to answer their queries, which made them attend the Open Day. Some raised issues such as non-availability of colleges offering sports seats in the drop-down menu of the centralised registration form. One such student, Pooja Bhasin, was asked to re-check. She said she still couldn’t find the colleges of her choice, which she knew offered sports seats.
 
 Such an experience pushed many students to visit individual colleges. Some looked for faculty members who teach specific courses, others look for classrooms and the overall infrastructure. 
 
 A Chennai-based parent went to SRCC and LSR to gauge which college would be better for his daughter who wishes to pursue economics honours. “I thought I would try to meet faculty members and take a look at the hostel facilities,” said K Ravi. 
 
 Jhanvi Warrier, who wishes to pursue psychology, visited three colleges to find out the difference between applied psychology and psychology. “I raised the query at Open Day but what they told me wasn’t enough. I want to become a psychiatrist, so I wanted to know the scope of the subjects,” Warrier said.
 
 Some students went to North Campus just to get a feel of   life. “We are tensed about the moderation policy. So we decided to tour the campus,” said  , who came with four classmates. 
 
 Representatives of many colleges were also invited to speak about their institutions at Open Day. But many thought it was better to speak to a faculty member instead. “Someone who teaches the subject would be able to guide better than admission officials,” said Sanjeev Makhija, a parent who visited   and KMC. His daughter wants to study English honours. But due to the ongoing examinations, faculty members were hard to come across. Some aspirants who approached colleges directly were told to wait until the release of cutoffs to raise queries. 
 
 Admission officials were also flooded with queries about admission policy, cutoff and subject queries. They told aspirants to wait until the bulletin was uploaded. Officials said 75,298 registrations had been made until 7pm on Thursday, including 23 transgender and 337 disabled candidates.
 
 
