KOCHI: On a day when public transport kept away from hitting roads across the state, the   services operated without interruptions. On Sunday, the city witnessed the first hartal after Kochi Metro began its commercial operations. And, as promised   (KMRL) operated services adhering to their timetable.

 “We experienced good passenger turnout even on the hartal day. However, the ridership on the day was less compared to the previous Sunday,” said a KMRL spokesperson. 
 
 The Metro services operated in the absence of buses, autorickshaws and taxi services. “Majority of people came to the Metro stations by private vehicles,” she added. 
 
 When vehicles kept away from roads, people opted to walk or cycle.
 
 As many shops in the city remained shut, people did not find a purpose in going out of their homes. 
 
 Aswany A, a Class XII student said: “There was hardly anything to do during the day. I was told that theatres, shopping centres and other places of entertainment would remain closed. There were not many vehicles on the roads. My friends and I cycled till Palarivattom station, took a Metro train to Aluva and made a return journey.” 
 
 The Metro agency said no untoward incidents were reported on hartal day from areas under their control. The Kochi Metro is being promoted as a transport system which could not only change how the city travels, but also the way it lives. 
 
 The standards and etiquettes set by KMRL is expected to have an impact on social behaviour. 
 
 “We were prepared for the hartal. Our staff reported for duty and it was business as usual. And, this is how we want to go forward. Our primary aim is to provide an effective and efficient transport service to the city. People should find Kochi Metro a dependable form of transport,” added the spokesperson.
 
 As per the data released on July 18, Kochi Metro enjoyed an average ridership of 29,816 when it completed one-month operations. KMRL said during the first month of operations their ridership per day varied between 20,000 and 90,000.
 
 
