BHUBANESWAR: In 2016, the twin cities of   and Bhubaneswar had both come under the grip of jaundice. This year, when Cuttack is once again in the throes of the water-borne disease, the capital city has so far not reported any cases of jaundice. For many, this is due to the water ATMs that have been supplying water to at least 10 slum pockets in the city. 

 In August last year, the   had installed water ATMs in areas where availability was scarce, making Bhubaneswar the second city in the country after Delhi to have water ATMs. The Jharana, Jadupur and   slums where around 70 positive cases had been detected now get clean water from the ATMs. Other areas that have access to pure ATM water are Gandamunda, Dumduma, Pokhariput, Siripur, Ganganagar Square, Bhimtangi and Sundarpada. People in these areas can draw water from the ATMs by swiping a smart card that had been distributed among slum dwellers, free of cost. A litre of water costs 30 paise and a maximum of 20 litres can be drawn in a day. The   has distributed a total of 2,500 smart cards until now. 
 
 "Apart from the ATMs, what has helped contain the menace is a rigorous awareness campaign involving Anganwadi workers, sanitation inspectors and ward officers. The BMC's Swachh Bharat Abhiyan cell has also been organizing awareness drives in the slum areas," said an official of the BMC.
 
 On Wednesday, eight food inspectors working under the BMC were directed to inspect the food sold at roadside eateries. The inspectors will take food samples and ensure that vendors do not use contaminated water to prepare food. 
 
 "In view of jaundice reappearing in Cuttack, we will launch a massive awareness drive again. We also have plans to expedite the installation of 10 more water ATMs within a month," said a spokesperson of the BMC. "By the end of this year, 40 water ATMs will be set up," he added. A single  , running on solar power, can store a minimum of 500 litres and a maximum 40,000 litres of water. The BMC also has plans to chlorinate tube wells and wells as a pre-emptive measure to ensure that no one is affected by jaundice. 
 
