NEW DELHI:   are one of the most important units. But these aren’t among the best trained or equipped. Now, there’s hope of improvement as the new police chief wants systemic changes for the better on priority. 

 According to sources, the department has set out to procure globally-used bomb detection and disposal systems to minimise risks involved in such operations. Further, the personnel would be trained to handle all kinds of explosives. “Advance equipment are needed, but when it comes to defusing bombs, expertise, exposure and experience matter more,” said an officer. 
 
 These global systems range from remotely operated vehicles to bomb blankets. Some of the gadgets are already with the police but need necessary upgrades. Documents with TOI also suggest that the police are procuring sophisticated electronic stethoscopes to detect timers using oscillating waves, and advanced ‘hook and line’ sets to defuse bombs. A telescopic manipulator is also being procured as it provides greater safety to the bomb crew by maximising the standoff distance. 
 
 At present, south, New Delhi, southeast and central police districts have bomb disposal squads while the rest have bomb disposal teams. A BDS is a 15-member team while the latter are 12-member units. Every year, these teams together handle around 2,500 calls of suspicious objects every year with five to six per day. 
 
 Each team is headed by an inspector-rank officer. “Operational control of all the teams lies with their respective DCPs. But functional control of all the teams is under the special commissioner, New Delhi range. At present, Mukesh Meena is on charge,” said a source. 
 
 So how does a bomb disposal team work. An officer said once a call is received, they reach the spot with the dog squad and cordon off the area. “Once the object is located, it is inspected for explosives. If confirmed, it is examined through X-ray units transported through remote operated vehicles. The object is then placed under a bomb blanket, and either defused or detonated,” the officer explained. 
 
 While this is the standard operating procedure, many a times teams don’t follow them. At times, local policemen not trained in bomb disposal techniques pick up suspicious objects with bare hands. It is hoped that with proper training and equipment, this would change. 
 
 Also, as of now, police are dependent on   or   for complicated operations. This, too, would change once the changes kick in. Commissioner Amulya Patnaik wants to provide the men with the best technology, equipment and infrastructure, it has been learnt. 
 
 
