CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday issued a notice to the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA) on a plea seeking directions to file a case in the International Court of Justice (ICJ) for repatriation of a prisoner of war (POW) of the 1971 Indo-Pak war, Havildar Dharam Pal Singh, from a Pakistani jail.

 Justice M M S Bedi issued the notice after taking cognizance of a petition filed by Havildar Dharam Pal’s wife Pal Kaur of Lehra Dhurkot village in Bathinda district. The 78-year-old petitioner referred the recent case of Kulbhushan Jadhav, a former   officer, in whose case the government of India has approached the ICJ. She has sought directions to the Union government to take up the matter of release of her husband from a Pakistani jail and also for filing appropriate proceedings, if necessary, before ICJ. She has sought centre’s intervention under the Simla Agreement 1972 signed between India and Pakistan regarding release of POWs.
 
 The counsel for the petitioner, Hari Chand, submitted before the HC that Pal Kaur’s husband had fought in the 1971 war against Pakistan on the border of Bangladesh and was captured by the enemy. However, the government of India and Indian Army treated him as martyr on the basis that he was missing since December 5, 1971. Even the then Prime Minister,  , wrote a letter to the petitioner, condoling the demise of her husband and expressing gratitude of the entire nation for his supreme sacrifice.
 
 According to the petitioner, now another war prisoner and former Indian Army official   of Ferozepur has informed her that he was also put in Kot Lakhpat Rai Jail in Pakistan, along with Dharam Pal Singh, where he stayed with him from July 19, 1974, till 1976. Afterwards , he was shifted to another jail. Banking upon an affidavit signed by Satish, Pal has filed the petition. The HC Bench has issued a notice to Satish, seeking his reply on the contentions raised by the petitioner.
 
 The petitioner has stated that India was entitled to approach the ICJ based on provisions of Simla Agreement for repatriation of her husband. The case would now come up for hearing on August 4.
 
