PALANPUR: Receding flood waters in   laid bare a massive tragedy in Khariya village of Kankrej taluka on Wednesday when 17 bodies -all close relatives -were recovered on the bank of Banas river. In all 29 bodies were reco vered by the district authorities on Wednesday.

 The death toll since the beginning of monsoon has now touched nearly 123, which is ex pected to rise as rescuers con tinue to scour through villages amid ebbing waters. Villagers in Khariya watched in disbelief as the bodies were extricated one after another from the slush. The victims, all Thakors, included eight women and one eight-year-old girl. The bodies of 17 people were found at Khariya and a nearby village of the Kankrej taluka today.
 
 At  , the author ities found seven bodies in the early hours from Sihori village, while two more bodies were found later, principal secretary , revenue, Pankaj Kumar said.
 
 Besides, two persons lost their lives in Palanpur town of Banaskantha due to a wall collapse, while one more person died in a similar incident at a nearby village, he added.
 
 Meanwhile, two Army co lumns, three NDRF teams and one BSF team were engaged in the rescue and relief operations aided by 10 IAF choppers in Banaskantha alone.
 
 The Bhavnagar-Ahmedabad highway was heavily flooded after several villages near   were inundated following release of 1.24 lakh cusecs release from Dharoi dam. Ahmedabad collector Avantika Singh Aulakh said 3,858 people in 20 villages have been taken to safer locations in the district.
 
 Nearly three days after their village   in Dantiwada taluka of   was inundated in flood waters, families returned on Wednesday . “We have lost everything. Our grain stock and utensils have been washed away . Our houses have also been severely damaged,“ said one of the victims.
 
 On Wednesday , around 650 more people were rescued from villages of the district by various agencies. Of these, 272 were airlifted to safety.
 
 Two choppers, four NDRF teams and two BSF teams and as many Army columns have been deployed in the adjoining Patan district that was also ravaged by floods.
 
 At least 500 medical professionals including doctors, paramedics and health workers have fanned out across the district to survey the flood-hit areas and distribute chlorine tablets and ORS packets to ensure that there is no outbreak of any epidemic. Medical staff from other districts have also been deployed in Banaskantha to speed up the efforts.
 
 Though water receded in Dhanera town, one of the worst-hit in Banaskantha, people witnessed the trail of destruction left behind by the nature's fury. Sacks of grains rendered useless were lying on the road and people struggled to remove water from their house.
 
