MUMBAI: The state election commission has set the bar high for candidates in the BMC elections asking them to file nominations online with full disclosure of properties owned and criminal records if any.

 In a first for municipal corporation elections, every candidate will also have to open a separate bank account for expenses to be incurred during polls.The upper limit in an A+ or A grade municipal corporation is Rs 5 lakh and Rs 4 and Rs 3 lakh for smaller corporations.
 
 “The candidate has to submit within 30 days after the elections all details of spending from that one account. He is also required to give (details of) spending by his party , family or friends and also his pocket,“ said state election commissioner   who addressed the media on Wednesday .A monitoring panel has been set up to keep a close watch on spending by candidates.
 
 The model code of conduct now in force puts curbs on government announcements, inaugurations of projects and posters or banners claiming credit for work done while in power. The code makes it mandatory for corporators to return official vehicles along with other facilities provided by the civic body. Corporators cannot seek meetings with BMC officials until the poll process is over.
 
 The drive against illegal banners and posters has alrea dy been intensified. Between January and October 2016, the BMC removed 13,090 illegal poster, banners and flags of which10,584 (80 %) were linked to politicians. The civic authority will not take down banners which are put with permission, but their expenses will be counted against the permitted Rs 5 lakh expenditure for a BMC candidate.“The code of conduct comes into effect just after the election announcement. Instructions have been issued to the department related to poster-banners“ said B G Pawar, deputy municipal commissioner.
 
 In the last two months, the BMC's ruling parties,   and   , have been in a hurry to inaugurate as many projects as they could in order to claim credit. CM   and Sena chief   themselves turned up to inaugurate some of them which included an upgraded BMC disaster control room. The Sena tried hard to expedite work on the penguin enclosure at the zoo, which they wanted to open before the code of conduct set in, but in vain.
 
