Nagpur: Students affiliated to Nagpur University can now look forward to smooth transactions and friendly treatment at the three-storeyed exam section on LIT premises as the much-awaited students facilitation centre (SFC), built on the lines of corporate offices, would be inaugurated today. The centre will be inaugurated by Vice Chancellor SP Kane while Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, registrar Puran Meshram, director of board of examinations and evaluation Neeraj Khaty and others would be present. The centre would offer a range of services such as mark sheets, form submissions, name change, duplicate certificates from this single-window system. Besides this, it will also save visitors from doing rounds of each section spread on three floors.  Vice Chancellor SP Kane told TOI that students won’t need to go upstairs from now on as all documentation work as well as information will be available on the ground floor. “Small cubicles have been set up on the ground floor. Earlier, students had to run from one table to another which used to be too much of hassle. Besides, the students used to complain that clerks weren’t very cooperative with them. Now, all of their queries and issues will be resolved by the well-trained staff,” Kane said. The university has outsourced the centre and it will be managed by the private agency Promarc which is already handling the exam work. The staff too is being provided by Promarc. Promarc director Mayur Katyayan said a workflow has been designed to ensure transparency and close monitoring of issues. “Logins have been created for higher officials who can anytime check the status of a task,” Katyayan said. Explaining the new system, he said, “Student help desk will issue tokens and applicants will see their allotted number on the screen. Students facilitation executives will accept the applications and provide acknowledgements. SMS will also be sent and time period for resolution will be mentioned.” Katyayan said the centre will put an end to chaos at the exam section and also help ward off the belief among students that it has only posed problems for them. He said, “In the last exam, over 4 lakh students appeared. Generally, results are withheld for awarding the division. So if 100 students come for this, it seems there is a big problem which is never the case. ”