
 
  
 
  
  “It's been a long wait even for me since Gombegala Love got released. We were waiting for Parthiepan sir's dates and I had to change my look, as I had to appear rugged to get into the skin of the character in the movie. The project went on longer than we expected, but the wait is over now. Though, the title Dada is Back suggests that it has mass elements, the film will connect with audiences emotionally as well, as there is a cute love story that binds everyone in the climax scene. My character, Chikka, is the perfect team man who is ready to go to any extent for his gang. There are many   movies based on true incidents, but in Dada Is Back, it is the emotions and music that will leave audiences spell bound. The whole gang war revolves around the word `hukkum' which means order, but director   has tried to give a different meaning to it. The chemistry between me and   is another element that will impress audiences,“ says Arun.
  
  
 
  
  Arun is delighted to have shared screen space with Parthiepan, who makes his Sandalwood debut with this film. “I was floored by his simplicity. While working with him, I never felt like I was working with a National Award winning actor. He would do his homework before coming to the set. Though his Kannada was not at its best, he used to rehearse it, to keep it perfect and he was also open to experiments on the set. He showed me that language is not a barrier, if we are willing to learn and explore,“ adds Arun.
  
  
 
  
  To give a realistic touch to the movie, some of the risky stunts have been shot without using any stunt doubles.“The fight sequences that we have shot in KR Market and surrounding areas have been carried out without body doubles. All credit goes to fight master Shiva for executing it immaculately,“ says Arun.
  
  
 
  
  “Working on this film was like a family affair, as it was a reunion of the Gombegala Love team, including director Santhosh and producer Ajay Raj Urs. Dada Is Back might be only our second film together, but the freshness of the subject has made us feel like it is our first,“ Arun signs off.
