Cleared/Madan

 Chennai: The AIADMK government under O Panneerselvam on Monday will continue the policies and programmes conceived by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa soon after she formed the government in May 2016, Maharashtra   Ch Vidyasagar Rao, who holds additional charge of Tamil Nadu, told the assembly on Monday.
 
 Addressing the assembly as per the customary New Year ritual, the governor was supportive of the Centre and several times praised it for its cooperation.
 
 “The government lays great emphasis on the conservation and effective management of the limited water resources of the state. This government will launch a new programme called ‘Kudimaramath’ scheme soon to mobilise public participation in the management of water resources, and the allocation for this scheme will be gradually increased,” said the governor. 
 
 Praising former chief minister Jayalalithaa for her vision and stating that she was a tall national leader, the governor said the government will launch a new tree planting programme to compensate for the loss of green cover in the wake of cyclone Vardah. 
 
 “The government will launch a massive greening programme to replant trees in public land and facilitate private individuals and institutions to plant saplings. As tree planting and provision of green cover was a cause close to the former chief minister’s heart, the initiative will be launched on February 24, Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary,” said Rao. 
 
 All ration card holders in the state will get smart cards from April 1. “The operations of the public distribution system (PDS) are being computerised in order to make it more efficient and transparent. As part of this exercise, linking of ration cards with Aadhaar numbers will be completed soon and smart family cards will be issued from April 1,” said the governor. 
 
 The governor praised the government for its achievements and for joining the Ujwal Discom Rejuvenation Yojana (Uday) scheme and the goods and services tax regime. 
 
 “The state has been unjustly denied its share of central tax devolution by the 14th Finance Commission, which had reduced inter-se share of Tamil Nadu by 19.04%, the higest loss suffered by any state,” said the governor. He demanded that the Centre allocate an annual grant of Rs 2,000 crore to mitigate the impact of reduced devolution. 
 
 Earlier, as the governor began his speech, DMK MLAs led by its working president and leader of the opposition M K Stalin tried to raise the issue of farmers’ distress and drought. But the governor continued to read his speech and this prompted members of the DMK, the Congress and the IUML to walk out of the House.
 
 
