LUCKNOW: Having completed   since he took charge as vice chancellor of King George’s Medical University, most of the decisions Prof   had announced have yet to materialise. On the day he assumed office (April 14), Bhatt had stated that by virtue of his long association with the university, he knew both, its “diseases and the treatment it needs”.

 In a reality check, TOI contacted the   and the chief medical superintendent Dr S N Sankhwar and found that some of the decisions are still in the process of implementation while action has yet to be taken on other plans.   administration, medical education department and state government had been apprised about the decisions and tasks were assigned to be fulfilled in 100 days. Here’s a look at the plans and their progress. 
 
 Guidance system for patients from far-off regions: Work has yet to begin in this direction and patients continue to face problems on the KGMU campus. “There are some points for guidance of patients but more have to be put up,” said CMS, Dr Sankhwar.
 
 One-point-system for free health services for BPL patients: It was one of the first decisions. Administration claimed a central office is available for patients but attendants of patients still run from faculty-in-charge to unit-in-charge to the PRO to avail of benefit. “This happens mostly at trauma centre but system will be streamlined soon,” said Dr Sankhwar. 
 
 Patient registration, pathology testing, etc to be revamped, put online: Overloaded and crumbling on a regular basis, KGMU’s in-house software was to be upgraded to reduce hospital load. “The software is being upgraded and APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University is extending technical support,” said the VC. 
 
 Pulling down wall between trauma centre, Shatabdi Hospital: Besides easing movement of patients and doctors between the two buildings, bringing down the wall would have cleared space and helped in rescue operations in the July 15 fire incident. “Oxygen plant is on the other side of the wall and pipeline passes through it for supply to trauma centre and Shatabdi Hospital. The contractor has been asked to bring down the wall but there are some technical issues,” said Bhatt. 
 
 More manpower for neurosurgery, paediatrics wards of trauma centre: Both departments were to get three additional nurses each. “New nurses are being recruited,” said Sankhwar.
 
 Stretcher stand for new dental faculty building, between trauma centre, OPD: Around 20 stretchers were to be provided with staff. “Keeping the stretcher in open would expose them to rains so once a shed is built the stretchers will be placed there,” said the VC. 
 
 Retired army personnel as private security guards: Decision followed gangrape at Shatabdi Hospital. “Around 18 posts have been sanctioned and there will be new guards at trauma centre, Queen Mary hospital and Gandhi ward by next week,” said Sankhwar. 
 
