PUNE: Royal Challengers Bangalore seem to be going through some bad times. Rising Pune Supergiant's 157/3 didn't look an imposing target for  's men on Saturday, but the visitors dug a grave for themselves with some inept batting and lost by 61 runs.

 It was  's third straight defeat in decisive games (one washout). Now, even four wins in four remaining games won't guarantee them a berth in the playoffs. They can't even say that the toss was a factor, since it was won by them.
 
 On the other hand, Pune scored their fourth win in last five matches, taking their points tally to 10 points in nine games and raising hopes of a first-ever playoff berth for this franchise.
 
 The pitch on offer was not a batting beauty. The ball came on to the bat slightly slower. The Pune bowlers were not on fire, but they were intelligent and disciplined enough, prompting RCB batsmen to lose their cool.
 
 Travis Head, preferred over Chris Gayle, was beaten by left-armer Jaidev Undakat's trajectory. AB de Villiers hit straight to extra cover.   got run out in comical fashion. Sachin Baby was plucked low at mid-wicket by captain Smith in a decision that lacked clarity.
 
 And  , replacing  , top-edged to fine leg off pacer Lockie Ferguson, who replaced Shardul Thakur. With the asking rate rising to more than 12 for the last eight overs, the writing was on the wall. Pune even kept two slips in the 19th over bowled by Lockie Ferguson. There was one passage of play in which RCB didn't hit a boundary for 66 balls and 54 minutes.
 
 Kohli refused to take singles to long off and long on in the 18th over (S Arvind was the non-striker), knowing fully well that they needed boundaries. He was the ninth man out (55 off 48, 4x4s, 1x6).
 
 Earlier, Pune too had had their struggles with the bat, hitting 14 fours and four sixes. But RCB were even less prolific, getting six fours and one six and scoring less than 100 without getting all out.
 
 Rahul Tripathi (37),   (45), Manoj Tiwari (44*) and MS   (21*) played small hands, each getting a minimum strike rate of 120, which proved to be the winning contributions.
 
 Batting first in six games of   this season, Pune have hit just 20 boundaries in the last 18 overs.   continued his below-par run by top-edging Badree to short fine leg.
 
 Tripathi had another promising outing, scoring 37 off 28 balls (4x4s, 1x6). He bent on his knee to hit one sensational six off left-armer S Arvind over long-on that landed in the first tier. He was dropped by Kohli when on 11, ballooning an ugly heave.
 
 To sum up RCB's forgettable day, Kedar Jadhav and captain Kohli both found themselves trapped at the same end.
 
