NEW DELHI: The Shunglu panel reported that the allotment of Type-V residential accommodation to AAP MLA   "needs separate and proper examination because prima facie it is illegal". 

 As regards allotting government accommodation, the committee felt it started from the allotment of 206, Rouse Avenue, to AAP. This was done, the panel concluded, just to validate the allotment of government accommodation as "the elected government does not have any power to deal with the subject of land, let alone allot it". 
 
 The committee reported that as a recorded minute, the chief minister decided to provide office space to each MLA in his/her constituency. For Tripathi, it was decided to allot a Type-V furnished accommodation, which is over 2,000 sq ft. The committee observed it "is quite disproportionate to the need for office space for an MLA. Thus, it seems the idea is to allot a residential furnished house to Tripathi under the guise of providing him office accommodation". 
 
 The committee also stated that the main file where the CM has taken this decision was not made available to it, and that providing accommodation to MLAs in their constituency was a major policy decision and couldn't be altered without legislation.
 
 The allotment of residential accommodation to DCW chief Swati Maliwal was an "irregular allotment". While the LG was not consulted for this, Maliwal was also not entitled to government housing going by DCW rules, the panel said. 
 
 Another illegality highlighted by the committee is the "continued occupation of government accommodation by Dr N  , a retired official, who had ceased to be entitled to a government accommodation". "For the unauthorised period, market rent should be recovered from him," the panel observed. 
 
 The committee also raised concerns about the occupation of Type VIA accommodation by  , non-official member in an honorary capacity of  . He joined as a part-time member on October 12, 2015. The government rule on providing facilities to DDC members expressly stated that providing a house to a member was out of its purview. The report went on to add that the Delhi cabinet ratified a decision on February 24, 2016, entitling Haldea to government housing. 
 
