Mumbai: The   will decide the legality of   being carried out in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra. Hawkers from across the state have approached the high court against what they call the “illegal eviction drives” being carried out by  . 

 The petitioners have urged the court to order the BMC and other corporations to stop evicting hawkers, especially those who have been carrying on business as on May 1, 2014. 
 
 The BMC, on its part, on Wednesday justified eviction drives of illegal hawker stalls. Daily hearings on the issue are currently being held before a division bench of Justices Bhushan Gavai and Makarand Karnik. 
 
 The Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act as well as high court orders protect all hawkers who have been carrying out business as on on May 1, 2014, when the law was enacted. 
 
 The petitioners, including Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam and various hawker unions as well as individual hawkers, claim that despite possessing receipts that show they have been carrying on business prior to May 2014, the corporation has initiated action against them. Senior lawyers B A Desai and   and advocate Vishal Kanade, representing the petitioners, pointed out that three years after the law came into force, the state is yet to frame rules or schemes to regulate hawkers. 
 
 The law specifies that the state has to frame rules and form town vending committees, comprising representatives of hawkers who are elected by registered hawkers. Besides regulating hawking, the committee also has to conduct surveys of hawkers once every five years. While the BMC claims that there are around 99,000 registered hawkers in Mumbai, the petitioners insist that the number of hawkers as of May 2014 was over 2.5 lakh. A 2015 HC judgment had protected the hawkers, except those who cook on the roads, and had asked the state to frame rules. The petitioners contended that this was not done and in its absence no action could be taken against the hawkers.
 
 Senior advocate Anil Sakhare, counsel for BMC, insisted that the eviction drives were legal. “The argument that hawkers are allowed to hawk anywhere in the city is incorrect,” said Sakhare, while pointing out that since 1983, the corporation had been trying to regulate hawkers as per the high court and Supreme court orders. 
 
 The BMC lawyer said it had even set up town vending committees in all wards. The advocate contended that the civic body was justified in taking action against illegal st-alls that violate the law—st-alls that are more that 1x1m, those that block vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or are near railway stations, religious places and educational institutions. The HC will continue the hearing on Thursday.
 
