Looking the way she does,   was typecast in the roles that she was offered in the US — that of an innocent girl. So, when the chance to star in Adarsh H Eshwarappa’s   came along, Lauren was excited to play an intense character. Speaking to   from her home in Los Angeles, she tells us about her journey and the lasting impression that the movie has had on her…

 
 
 I met Adarsh during his stint at the  . I starred in a short film that he made, called The Reality, after which we became friends. When he wrote Shuddhi, Adarsh sent me the script; it was so well written that I just had to be a part of it. The characters and the relationships between everyone is very well thought out — the journey of my character, Karlyn, is admirable.
 
 
 
 For Karlyn, coming to India is more of a spiritual journey. Hinduism was a part of her upbringing, but she gets to learn more about it when she journeys to India. Karlyn is naïve in the beginning of the movie, and after seeing and experiencing certain things, she grows up — she learns to be grounded and stand up for what she believes in. It’s like she goes from being a girl to becoming a woman through the journey.
 
 
  
 
 
 Yes, and it was amazing. I didn’t quite know what to expect and it was a lot busier than I expected. But the people were welcoming and I felt like I was in a home away from home. I got to experience the beautiful countryside when we drove from Bengaluru to Goa while filming. I felt like I was in six different countries through that drive. I loved taking pictures when I was in India; I didn’t expect the colours to be so vibrant.
 
 
 
 In the US, because of the way I look — with my blonde hair, pale skin and small built — I usually play an innocent person. I always wanted to work in a movie that was as intense as Shuddhi. As my character went through her journey in the film, I went through a parallel journey of my own. This was the first time that I was out of the US for so long by myself, and I was working in such a different culture and in a film that I did not necessarily understand from a sheltered US perspective. So, I feel that I also grew up, like Karlyn. The film has had a lasting impression on me. 
 
