BENGALURU: Denying allegations made by state   B S   about a   in modernization of   in North Karnataka, water resources minister M B Patil on Wednesday said Yeddyurappa was making such statements because of   

  Speaking to reporters here, Patil said: "Yeddyurappa is 75-years-old now and imbalance in health is common at such age. He should take care of his health and not speak foolishly." Patil's jibe comes in the backdrop of claims made by Yeddyurappa in Gadag on Tuesday about scams in the execution of Malaprabha distribution canals. He had alleged that the cost of modernization was hiked from Rs 400 crore to Rs 800 crore, following pressure from Patil. The chief engineer of the project, who refused to fall in line with Patil, was shunted out. 
 
  Countering the allegations, Patil said: "The right bank and left bank canals of Malaprabha are in bad shape and in need of urgent repair. The previous BJP government did nothing to modernize the canals built over two decades ago. The BJP, which has suffered a setback in this region for mishandling the Mahadayi issue, is desperate to stall the modernization project in order to prevent Congress from becoming more stronger. Yeddyurappa is making allegations without any evidence." 
 
  Patil said the initial estimate for modernization of the canals was pegged at Rs 964 crore in 2013-14. "But since it did not factor in soil pressure tests and cohesive non-swelling (CNS) technology to be adopted in the expansive black soil, the cost increased to Rs 1,120 crore. We want to ensure that the modernization work is durable and not just a knee-jerk reaction." Patil said the project's chief engineer was transferred because of non-utilisation of funds and for not executing works on time. 
 
  The minister also spiked Yeddyurappa's allegation that 7 tmcft of dead storage water from Almatti dam was released to Jindal industries. 
 
  "There was a demand for 90 cusecs of water to meet the requirements of 1.08 lakh people in 35 villages, three townships and for continued operations of the JSW plants. After due verification, a decision was taken to release 25 cusecs from Narayanapur dam from May 8. This would mean only 0.06 tmcft of water will be released per month, and not 7 tmcft as claimed by Yeddyurappa." 
 
  In a veiled threat to Yeddyurappa, Patil said, "I still have two decades in politics while he has almost reached a saturation point. These allegations are being made in the wake of reports of my name being mentioned for the KPCC president's post. I will not tolerate baseless allegations. I will be forced to give him a fitting reply." 
 
 
