NEW DELHI: Lieutenant governor   has rejected chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s demand to conduct April’s municipal elections through paper ballot. Citing time constraints, the   has cleared the use of electronic voting machines (EVMs), which have been in the eye of a storm since the recent results of the five assembly elections.

 The LG communicated his decision to the government on Thursday, said sources. “He has said rules will have to be amended for shunning EVMs and it is not possible to make these changes since there is a little over a month left for the polls,” said a source. The LG also felt that there had been no instance of EVM tampering in the past and that corporation elections in 2007 and 2012, and the 2016 bypolls were also held through EVMs, they added.
 
 The issue of using paper ballot in the corporation elections was raised by both AAP and  . Questions were raised on EVMs after AAP secured only 20 seats in the Punjab assembly elections while it had been expecting to sweep the elections.
 
 Kejriwal, who wrote to the LG urging him to use paper ballot, had said complaints had been coming in from various other states too of people having cast votes which were not registered. 
 
 BSP chief Mayawati had also raised the matter on the day results of the five states were declared, claiming that there had been massive EVM tampering that allowed BJP to win over 300 seats in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Requesting the LG to call an all-party meeting in case he disagreed with Kejriwal’s suggestion, the CM had said leaders of several political parties had approached him and demanded that the corporation polls be conducted through paper ballot as they did not have faith in EVMs. “Out of three major political parties in Delhi, AAP and Congress have demanded conduct of the polls through paper ballots. The demand, therefore, deserves to be accepted,” he had said.
 
 On Wednesday, the AAP national convener claimed that about 25% of the votes meant for AAP had probably gone to Akali Dal through EVM tampering. “In the Punjab elections, Congress secured 38.5% votes, SAD and BJP 30.6% and AAP and LIP 23.9%. The most predominant feeling in this election was that the people of Punjab had rejected Akali Dal and the Badal family due to the rampant loot and drug business and not a single person expected Akali Dal to get more than 6-7% votes. Their 30.6% vote share is, therefore, inexplicable.”
 
