VISAKHAPATNAM: Members of Telugu Dandu and   has accused the state government of treating Telugu, the second largest spoken language in the country, with utmost disrespect. 

 Addressing the media here on Monday, members of Telugu Dandu said that state government has introduced reforms aimed at destroying the language, rather than propagating it. They said that by introducing English medium in government schools, the state government reduced Telugu to a ‘third Language’. They further announced that a debate will be held on July 23 on conservation and promotion of Telugu language and several scholars, poets and language experts will participate in it.
 
 “Despite Telugu being accorded the status of a classical language, the state government is introducing reforms in school education aimed at eroding the Telugu base. It is shameful that while all over the world people fight to preserve their linguistic identity, in AP we are doing our best to erode it,” said Telugu Dandu member Parupalli Kodanda Ramayya. Noted Telugu scholar YVN Sarma urged the state government to implement the recommendations made by the Telugu Conservation Committee. Sarma said, “According to the report, consolidation of Telugu and its revival must be done at the school level. The introduction of English medium in Anganwadi and other government schools is a step that will be detrimental to Telugu conservation.”
 
 Teachers present at the media interaction pointed out that a strong foundation in one’s mother tongue will help a person learn any other language easily. 
 
 The speakers noted that for   Telugu as the medium of instruction in government schools, there must be enough people proficient in the language to teach the youngsters. They noted that this was not the case. They further dug back into history and Paravasthu Phani Sayana Suri of the   said, “It was the Telugus who started the whole movement for separate linguistic states in India with the formation of Andhra Maha Sabha. 
 
 Telugu leaders who demanded reformation of states on linguistic lines saw their dreams come true in 1952 after Potti Sri Ramulu’s sacrifice and all their efforts are going to dust today.” 
 
