Central investigative agencies are scrutinising bills raised by companies in which Karti P Chidambaram has direct or indirect interest. This is in addition to two companies against which FIRs have been filed on May 15, where the son of former Union finance minister P Chidambaram is the main accused.
 
  While Karti is director at  , he is in “indirect” control, according to the  , of Advantage Strategic Consulting Pvt Ltd. These companies are under the scanner for receiving money for “services” rendered by Karti and his “other companies”, according to the investigative agencies.
  
  Referring to the alleged illegal foreign investment allowed by the   (FIPB) through Karti’s good offices, CBI said invoices for Rs. 3.5 crore were raised in the “name of other companies” in favour of M/s  . The group had Peter and Indrani Mukerjea as its directors.
  
  The FIR added Karti Chidambaram had “sustainable interests either directly or indirectly” in these “other companies”. The companies, according to the FIR, raised bills in the name of “creation and acquisition of media content, consultancy in respect of market research” and “acquisition of content of various genre of audio/video”.
  
  According to CBI’s preliminary probe, the companies were used as tools to “conceal the identity” of Karti Chidambaram. The dates of the invoices, receipt of payments by the companies and services rendered by Karti and his company, Chess Management Services, is likely to be probed to establish a connection between the two. The agency is also scrutinising “intermediaries” who facilitated foreign investments in violation of FIPB rules at the instance of Karti Chidambaram.
  
  The probe will also include more transactions made by Advantage Strategic Consulting Pvt Ltd (ASCPL) allegedly at the behest of Karti. Central agencies are ascertaining whether   indulged in more transactions in addition to the INX “deal” and whether ASCPL received payments for the “services” rendered by Karti using his “influence” by virtue of his relationship with the then finance minister, his father, P Chidambaram. The agencies have zeroed in on a few transactions where lakhs of rupees were charged by ASCPL as “consultation fees”. The dates of receipt of payments coincide with “services” rendered by Karti and his company to foreign companies.
  
  The former FM has categorically denied the charges and alleged the NDA government was launching a political vendetta against him and his son. Chidambaram has maintained that the said company M/s ASCPL has no direct relation with his son Karti. CBI is soon likely to examine ASCPL and its director Padma Vishwanathan, alias Padma Bhaskararaman, who is a co-accused in the FIR. 
