DHARAMSALA: Some befuddling chinaman bowling, that most exotic and unorthodox of cricketing arts, and a schizophrenic pitch conspired to put a spoke in Australia's wheels on Saturday.

 The visitors were a commanding, run-rampaging 131/1 after the first session on an even surface which resembled a batting beauty. They then lost five wickets for only 77 runs in the second session, capitulating to the mysterious left-arm wrist spin of debutant   (468) on a pitch suddenly amenable to some turn, bite and bounce.
 
  (111; 173 balls; 14x4) strode like a colossus among the ruins, becoming only the second visiting captain to score three centuries in a series in India, but Australia's back was broken.
 
 Lower-order resistance, notably a 57 from Matthew Wade, eventually enabled the Aussies to muster 300 in their first innings after Smith again hit pay dirt at the toss. The visitors, though, could be forgiven for suspecting some of the mystic arts of the nearby McLeodganj monasteries had been prised open between lunch and tea.
 
 The conjuring trick had actually been played by India in the morning. In a triumph of left-field strategizing, the team management decided to rest injured skipper Virat Kohli and award a Test cap instead to left-arm wrist-spinner Kuldeep Yadav, who repaid the faith with a practised ease rarely seen in spin-bowling debutants.
 
 India were all at sea when it came to their bowling plans for Smith, but replacement skipper   didn't err when it came to encouraging Kuldeep to bowl a fuller length. With a resolute Warner (56 off 87) hanging on and riding his luck after a first-ball edge was grassed by Karun Nair at third slip, the first ball of the fourth over after lunch turned the game on its head.
 
 A scratchy Warner stayed back to a fuller one which bounced more than anticipated, turned a shade away from the batsman, and took the edge on the way to the slip. Peter Handscomb was victim No.2, a nearly-unplayable, pitched-up delivery drifting away , then turning back in off the pitch to take the inside edge on to the stumps.
 
 Kuldeep's masterclass, though, was the Glenn Maxwell dismissal, just after the batsman had clobbered him for a boundary: the googly, impossible to spot, was unleashed. Maxwell froze like snow in the Dhauladhar. The ball turned towards off, brushed the pads and thudded into the stumps. Kuldeep had made it his day, putting even Smith's effort in the shade.
 
 It didn't seem things would go India's way that easily after the Australian captain, a veritable one-man army, ran riot in the morning. This was in spite of Bhuvneshar Kumar, as anticipated brought in place of Ishant Sharma, and Umesh Yadav (269; including the early wicket of Matt Renshaw) both finding some early movement.
 
 The hard pitch suited Smith's aggressive intent, and his 134-run partnership with Warner came at 4.21, as India's tired spin duo of R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja looked increasingly shaken by the ease of run-making. India repeatedly strayed to Smith's pads as the batsman shuffled across. They tried the wide-outside off strangulation method and came up with nothing. Eventually it took a beauty of a catch from Rahane and some sharp turn from Ashwin to end India's misery.
 
 With Murali Vijay and KL Rahul negotiating one over safely before stumps, it will now be up to India, playing with a batsman less, to negotiate the pace and the cracks. Australia's quicks, surely, will try their hardest to make the 300 look good.
 
