"I want to make this wall look clean and beautiful so that other people can see and refrain from dirtying it again," says a seven-year-old Nayantara Singh, while painting a portion of the wall opposite   Metro Station. She, along with her sisters were some of the youngest volunteers who were determined to transform this area alongside   on Sunday morning.

  
 Volunteers from  , an Delhi-based volunteer group, initiated the cleaning of this wall, which had become a urinating spot for passersby and autowallahs assembled there.  , one of the founders of the group, said, "We have been following up about fixing this wall with the Noida Authority for quite some time. They have been very cooperative and supportive." She added, "We chose this spot as it had become a popular urinating spot, despite the fact that there is a urinal installed right next to it. After the cleaning of this spot, I hope people will start respecting this space now."
 
  
  The wall opposite the Noida City Centre Metro Station, which had become a urinal and a dumping spot for autowallahs and others, got a makeover on Sunday
 
  The Noida Authority workers removed the layers of garbage at the spot, after which, the volunteers started removing the posters. "While we were working here, people kept coming and asking what were we doing. They started taking interest in the activity," said  , another founder of We Mean to Clean.
 
  
  SK Sharma, health inspector, Noida Authority
 
  
 
 SK Sharma, health inspector, Noida Authority, was present at the spot to ensure that the group didn't face any problem. He said, "Yeh log bahut achha kaam kar rahe hain. And whatever help they need from us, we will keep providing those. This wall had become a urinal spot, and now, it will be a great artistic spot."
 
  Princy Goyal, a student and a volunteer with the group, said, "I am working here because I think it's our duty to clean the city and the place where we live. I don't believe in littering. It's simple logic - if we can keep a packet of chips in our bag, then why not keep the empty packet in our bag and throw it in a bin? Is that so difficult? I think people here will understand what we are trying to convey."
 
  Another volunteer, Gopika, said, "Everyone sees the dirty littered spot, but no one actually comes forward to clean it or ask for help from the authorities. Everybody will criticize, but no one actually comes forward to act. People need to be aware of this and we are just sowing the seeds."
 
  
  
 
 
 The volunteers then made squarish designs all over the wall and put handprints too. They also wrote 'shauchalay' in hindi, pointing an arrow towards the toilet directing people towards the Sulabh Shauchalya.
 
 
  
  The volunteers also wrote 'shauchalay' in hindi, pointing an arrow towards the toilet next to the wall (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
  
 The autowallahs also gathered at that spot to see what the volunteers were doing. They agreed that they made the wall a urinal. "Yahan sab aake gandh phailate thay aur hum bhi isey urinal spot jaise use karte thay. I won't lie. Par ab hum inka saath denge, aur kisi ko iss jagah ko ganda nahi karne denge."
 
 
 
 
