BHOPAL: The accused who fraudulently transferred Rs 42.03 lakh from the joint partnership accounts of two   through 12 transactions had hacked the email on which the victims used to receive the details of bank transactions.

 The accused blocked the   of one of the partners who handles the internet banking of the firm and got a   issued in his name from the   at New Market using forged identity documents. The theory of mail hacking seems concrete as the accused blocked the SIM card merely three hours after around Rs 35 lakh were deposited in the company’s account.
 
 Complainant Anand Jain, 50, resident of E-8/14, Tiranga Colony, E-8 Arera Colony extension and his partner RB Prasad, a resident of JK Road, jointly own a manufacturing unit Prompt Engineers in Mandideep. The firm has its bank account in Bank of Baroda, E-8, Arera Colony branch. Jain’s BSNL mobile is registered for the net banking facility on which he receives the transaction messages.
 
 Jain’s SIM card was suddenly blocked on Friday evening. When he contacted the customer care, he was told that a new SIM card was being issued in his name. When he contacted the local BSNL office and got his number restarted, he received text messages that Rs 42.03 lakh were transferred from his account to different bank accounts in Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Surat through RTGS, NEFT and IMPS in 12 transactions. Subsequently, he reported the matter to cyber cell where a case on charges of fraud was registered against unidentified accused under relevant sections of IPC and IT Act.
 
 Jain said that on September 15, around Rs 35 lakh was deposited in the company’s account by different parties towards payment till 3 pm. Around 6 pm his number was suddenly blocked.
 
 Police sources said that it seems that the accused had hacked Jain’s email account and were receiving bank messages on their mail regularly. As soon as money was deposited in the account, they committed the incident.
 
 SP (cyber-cell) Shailendra Singh Chouhan said that the detail of the bank accounts in which the money was transferred is being collected from the respective banks. The officer in-charge of BSNL who issued the duplicate SIM card to the fraudster on the basis of forged identity document without verification is also being thoroughly interrogated. 
 
