GURUGRAM: Classes will resume on Wednesday at three branches of   in   but under oversight and with several stringent measures, including presence of teachers at the school drop-off and pick-up points, being ordered by the state government.

 But the   campus, where Class 2 student   was murdered last Friday, is likely to remain shut for some more time amid heavy police deployment on and around the   and the ongoing investigation.
 
 The three other Ryan branches, with exams on in the junior sections, had opened on Tuesday but parents TOI spoke to said they hadn’t sent their children to school.
 
 The district administration, which met parents’ groups on Tuesday and heard their concerns on security, unveiled a series of measures for the Ryan schools that it said it will ensure are implemented, including   cameras in all classrooms and separate portable toilets for non-teaching staff in campuses where there isn’t one (like the one at Ryan Bhondsi).
 
 The schools have also been asked to give parents an app to track school buses. Teachers have been asked to escort students to and from the school’s drop-off and pick-up points. The schools have been asked to extend the duty hours of teachers for this, if needed. The Bhondsi branch does not have an approach road wide enough for a bus. As a result, students are dropped off around 200 metres before the gates. The school has been ordered to post guards along the whole stretch.“The parents raised concerns that the schoolbuses are crowded to almost double the capacity. We will register an FIR even if there is a single child more than the number of seats in the bus,” subdivisional magistrate Bharat Bhushan Gogia said.
 
 While parents of the other three schools said they would be ready to send their children once adequate security was provided, parents of students at the Bhondsi branch said they did not know what to do. “It is difficult for us,” said Anuj Gupta, a parent. “I am concerned about my child’s academic career but I cannot take a risk.”
 
 Those whose children studied in the 2A with Pradhyumn said the kids are in trauma. “How can I even think of sending my son to study there again?” asked one parent. She said parents have decided to wait outside school from 7 am to 2 pm, the duration of the classes. “We will continue this for the next six months till the session ends. From next session, we are sending our kids to another school,” she said.
 
 Division commissioner D Suresh told TOI parents had requested for the closure of school for a day or two. “The schools had to reopen anyhow,” he said. “We are always there. We have taken all the necessary measures. We are vigilant. From our side, there is no such directive that seeks continuation of closure of schools.”
 
 
