BENGALURU: With the July 31 d eadline to file income tax returns fast approaching, hundreds flocked to the three-day camp organized by the I-T department at Gayathri Vihar, Palace Gr ounds, on Saturday. 

  O n the first day, the special counters saw mostly pensioners, besides those who have had troubles filing taxes online or linking their   and   cards. Chidananda Murthy, a professional from  , who has a spelling error in his Aadhaar card, told STOI: "There is no space between my name and surname, so I can't link the card with my PAN. I tried to get it rectified in July first week, but in vain. Officials suggested that I file ITR manually this year until the documents are linked, but there is no guarantee that my returns will be accepted ." 
 
  Officials admitted that there are glitches. Alex Mathew, spokes m an of the I-T department said, "Many are facing problems while trying to link Aadhaar with PAN despite having correct details in both the databases. We don't have access to the Aadhaar database and are unable to help. But reports doing rounds that Aadhaar is not compuls ory are false. As of now, it is mandatory to link Aadhaar with PAN to file ITR." 
 
  All-in-one facility: The camp is a go-to place for the elderly, especia lly pensioners. A S Nandishwar from Sanjaynagar, who been visiting the mela for the past 10 years, said: "You just need to bring all the documents and officials are here to guide you. One needn't run from pillar to post if clarifications are sought." 
 
  Many fi nd filing returns online difficult. Nalini C P, an LIC officer, said, "There's no chance for face-to-face interaction if there are any doubts. Our queries are answered on the spot here." This year, 54 counters have been set up for online ITR filing, apart from ATMs, bank extension counters, PAN service and help desks. 
 
  Arrangements are being made to receive bulk returns separately. The counters will remain ope n from 10am to 5pm on Sunday an d Monday. The facility will not be available at the   Bhavan office of the department till Monday. 
 
