BATHINDA: A Rs 5-lakh cheque that Bathinda district adminstration had issued on August 23 as compensation to the family of a farmer who committed suicide on August 9, was dishonoured by a bank on Monday. 

 The cheque, issued to the family of Tek Sing, a native of Bathinda’s  , was issued by the district amdinistration through the Bathinda District Red Cross Society. The cheque belongs to the State Bank of India’s Bathinda branch. 
 
 Tek’s family had deposited the cheque at HDFC Bank branch in Jeond village soon after. “We have an account in the branch. A bank employee came to our residence on September 11 and handed over the dishonoured cheque, saying the bank account number did not match with the record. When we approached the authorities, we were told to return the cheque and were given an assurance that a new one will be issued,” said Tek’s son   Singh.
 
 Bathinda deputy commissioner Diprava Lakra said the cheque had been dishonoured due to clerical mistake. “I had a word with the bank manager and the cheque will be honoured,” he said.
 
 Tek had committed suicide on August 9, after naming commission agent Suresh Bahia of Rampura Phul in his suicide note. Police registered a case against Bahia for abetment to suicide, but he has not been arrested so far. Jagjit said their family owned just an acre of land and the state government had tried to make a mockery of them by asking them to return the cheque. 
 
 Commission agent not held, protest outside DC office
 
 Upset over police not arresting commission agent Suresh Bahia of Rampura Phul, even after a case of abetment to suicide was registered against him on August 9 following a suicide by farmer   of Jeond village, farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) on Wednesday protested outside Bathinda deputy commissioner’s office. Protesters blocked traffic on the Bathinda-Mansa road. Famers were also agitated over the district administration not making investigations into misappropriation of funds by a patwari (revenue official), Jagjit Singh, after farmer Jaswant Singh of Lehra Bega village committed suicide at the patwarkhana (revenue office) on May 10.
 
