KANPUR: The ongoing feud in the Yadav clan has landed   in a state of confusion. A big chunk of voters has a soft corner for SP but the ongoing feud within the Yadav family and Bahujan Samajwadi Party’s (BSP) master stroke of giving a large number of tickets to Muslim candidates has created confusion in the minds of the community. The election dates are out and now people have started discussing and making plans.

 Member of Anjuman Khuddamin Muslemeen Committee Waris Ali said that Akhilesh Yadav has done remarkably good job as far as development in the city and state is concerned. But it was all done under leadership of Mulayam Singh Yadav. Mulayam was the driving force behind Akhilesh’s governance. “What is the future of this party without its founder? There are many miles to go for SP as far as development of UP is concerned. I doubt that after getting divided, SP will be able to deliver,” he added.
 
 Cleric Hafiz Mohammad Jamal has a little different view. He said   has failed to maintain law and order in the state and scores of people were killed in Muzaffarnagar riots. People should not vote in favour of SP irrespective of religion, he added. But when he was asked that whom should Muslims support, he had no answer. “BJP Hindu-Muslim ki rajneeti karti hai, Congress mein dum nahi hai, BSP kaam nahi karti hai aur SP mein ladai chal Rahi hai, to kisko vote dein? (BJP plays Hindu-Muslim politics, Congress has become weak, BSP does not work and SP is facing family feud. Then for whom should we vote),” he added.
 
 When he was asked that BSP has given maximum number of tickets to Muslim candidate, is this not enough for the community to vote for BSP? Jamal replied that Mayawati has a feeling of insecurity and she wants to cash the opportunity of SP family feud.
 
 Saleem Nizami, an Urdu teacher, said during last assembly election in 2012, Muslims had voted for SP because of Mulayam Singh Yadav. But he made Akhilesh the chief minister. Now the party is on the verge of partition. It is useless to waste our vote amid Yadav family feud. Voting for BSP would be a better option, he added.
 
 Haji Mohammad Salees, general secretary, All India Sunni Ulema Council said this time Muslims will vote for a single political party. Though he did not take name of any political party but he was confident that the votes of the community would not get divided and go in favour of a single party.
 
