GHAZIABAD: A week after Yogi Aditya Nath government took oath of office in the state, work is all set to begin for a massive boarding and lodging facility for Kanwar and Kailash Mansarovar pilgrims at a site near the newly built   in Ghaziabad. The Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation had allotted nearly 10,000 square yards of land for the purpose in July last year.

 On Sunday, a team of officials from the municipal corporation, led by mayor Ashu Verma and municipal commissioner Abdul Samad, inspected the site whichis less than 300 metres from the Haj house. The building has been tentatively named Kailash Mansarovar   Vishram Griha. It will be built on the side of GT Road on which the Ala Hazrat Haj House, a resting place for Haj pilgrims, was built by the Samajwadi Party government last year. 
 
 The   has also allotted nearly 1,200 square yards adjacent to the Vishram Griha for construction of a Dashmesh Vatika for the Sikh community.
 
 “We are making all efforts to provide some basic facilities at the site before July when thousands of   would flock to the city. For the first phase of construction work, we will draw a budget from the Infrastructure Development Fund of the city. Boundary walls, gate, sheds and a few washrooms will be constructed with this money. A potable water supply system will also be installed at the site. A detailed plan for the first phase of work has already been made by the municipal corporation. We will meet chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi with a demand for additional funds to construct the entire building which will be completed in subsequent phases. The decision to construct a lodging facility for Hindu pilgrims has been taken as the local administration did not provide them with any facilities. So far, only social and voluntary associations have been providing food and lodging facilities to Kanwar pilgrims in Ghaziabad,” mayor Ashu Verma told TOI.
 
 The municipal corporation has been levelling the site by filling it up with rubble. Construction work on the boundary walls of the building is likely to begin soon, he said. Every year, nearly half-a-million Kanwar pilgrims pass through Ghaziabad city carrying water on their shoulders after collecting it from the Ganges in Haridwar. 
 
 The Haj house, which was built largely on the efforts of Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, was inaugurated by former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav in September 2016. 
 
 At the inaugural function, Ashu Verma had handed over a memorandum to Yadav demanding Rs 50 crore for construction of the Vishram Griha and the Dashmesh Vatika. 
 
 However, the SP government did not release any funds.
 
 
