PATNA: The Bihar government may finalise the   (RERA), 2016   this year, the deadline set by the Centre.

 The RERA was notified in March 2016 and the state governments were asked to frame the rules for its implementation in their respective states within six months. At a national-level workshop in New Delhi in January, the states were asked to finalise the rules by March.
 
 “Our rules will be ready by March end,” Bihar urban development and housing department minister Maheshwar Hazari told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 The Union government issued draft RERA rules in June and final rules in October last year. The Centre’s rules are applicable in the five Union territories, namely Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Lakshadweep and Chandigarh. These rules are supposed to serve as a model template for the states to frame their rules in view of local specifics.
 
 The sources said the rules being framed by the Bihar government as of now specify the accountability of developers in case of delay, simplification of pricing and easy-to-understand nitty-gritty for computing built-up area, among other things.
 
 The RERA envisages compulsory registration of ongoing and upcoming real estate projects, penalty to builders against delays and punitive measures for fraudulent realtors. Besides, developers are also required to disclose updated project details on a government regulator’s website.
 
 Developers operating in Bihar have demanded exclusion of the ongoing projects from the ambit of RERA. “Several states like UP have excluded the ongoing projects...,” said Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India-Bihar‘s honorary secretary Sachin Chandra.
 
 Most property buyers in Bihar are happy with the Centre’s RERA initiative and expect the state government to frame the corresponding rules at the earliest. “One of the RERA provisions prescribes interest payment by builders on the buyers’ EMIs in case of project execution delay,” said Amit Kumar, a sales executive in Patna.
 
 
