NASHIK: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation ( ) has decided to cut down trips and terminate bus services on different routes in a phased manner that will help the ailing corporation save some money.

 The reduction of trips would mean that buses will cover about 39,000 km every day instead of the present 42,000 km. This will enable the transport utility to save about Rs 30,000 per day.
 
 The mounting financial losses have forced the MSRTC to take this drastic decision that was decided by its Nashik division authorities at the recently held budget meeting. Currently, the MSRTC is incurring a loss of Rs 10 per kilometre in plying buses within the municipal corporation limits.
 
 The MSRTC sources said that the formal announcement on this decision will be made after the model code of conduct for the ensuing civic elections is lifted.
 
 “The MSRTC is under tremendous pressure for the past many years as it has been suffering huge losses in urban areas. The corporation is in no mood to run the buses in the city unless it has support from the civic body. Taking stern steps, we have decided to cut down on routes in some parts of the city which are not viable,” a senior official from the MSRTC said.
 
 In the city, for every km, the MSRTC has to cough up Rs 10.10 from its pocket which is in sharp contrast to the buses running in rural areas where it spends just Rs 2.51 per km.
 
 “By the end of January, the frequency in city operations will have been reduced marginally from across all pockets as the buses from the non-performing routes will be removed. As per the plan, we have decided to terminate 23 routes. As of now services of eight buses have been cut down and few more will follow suit. The month of February will see more services being trimmed,” the officer said.
 
 Sources also hinted that bus trips to areas like Ambad, Satpur, Gangapur Road,  , Makhmalabad, among others would be cut down by the MSRTC. “The primary reason these buses are being cut down is that people prefer taking private transport or personalised transport to travel,” an officer, present at the meeting, said.
 
 The commuters, however, are unhappy with the decision. “With the government-run corporation deciding not to serve people, we are now left to find our own means to travel. By cutting down services, the MSRTC has now given a free hand to private transport operators to charge us at their will. This will also lead to rise in crime,”  , a resident of the Indira Nagar, said.
 
  general secretary   called for private players to provide services. “The government should call for private participation and hand over the services to them so that the quality of services automatically improves,” he said.
 
