SERAMPORE: A Rashtriya Rifles sepoy from Rishra, posted in Jammu and Kashmir’s militant hotbed of Bandipora, was beaten up on Sunday morning when he refused to cough up Rs 8 lakh demanded by some extortionists.

 A resident of Rishra’s N S Road, Pravin Kumar Razak (22), wants to build a home for his family who have been putting up in a dilapidated and cramped jute mill quarters. His elder brother Navin is a private tutor and the earnings barely provide sustenance for the family. So Pravin had had been saving up since 2011 (when he landed his job) to build a home for the family. He came down from Kashmir on May 3 to check out the plot that his father Asoke — a Hastings Jute Mill worker — bought at Bhadreswar’s Khurigachi.
 
 “Getting leave isn’t easy. But when I told my superior that I wanted to build a house for my family, he sanctioned me a 20-day leave without asking further questions,” Pravin said with a bandaged head and leg. On May 5, he went to check out his father’s plot. The next day, some unidentified local youths threatened him and demanded Rs 8 lakh, which Pravin refused to pay. “I have all the required permissions to build the house. How dare they demand money?” he said.
 
 On May 5, Pravin went back to the plot to lay the foundation of his house. Suddenly, a group of 10-12 youths armed with sticks and stones surrounded him and started hitting him, said Pravin. They asked him to pay up the money and threatened him of dire consequences if he didn’t oblige. “I have lodged a complain at the Bhadreswar police station. I won’t start the construction unless the two kingpins — Samu Paswan and Marco Paswan — who led the attackers, are arrested, Pravin said.
 
 Bhadreshwar Municipality chairperson Manoj Upadhyay said Pravin had the legal permit from the municipality to build his house. “We had approved his building sanction plan on thier family land,” he said. Bhadreswar OC Anudyuti Mazumdar said, “I’ve offered Pravin police protection to build his house. The FIR has been lodged and the accused persons will be arrested soon.” The Paswan duo are local toughs who target outsiders trying to settle in Bhadreshwar. They do not have any known criminal records, an officer said.
 
 First posted in Rajasthan’s Bikaner, the young sepoy’s second posting was at Bandipora in August 2016. His usual drills are daylong search operations or night patrol. “We encounter a lot of stone-pelters there while defending the nation. But, here they are attacking me for trying to build my own house,” Pravin rued.
 
