THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The CPM’s decision to support Kerala   (Mani) in the Kottayam district panchayat election has surprised not only the Congress, but the coalition partners in the LDF also.

 Though   is the second largest constituent in the CPM-led LDF, its lone member in the district panchayat, P Sugathan, was unaware of CPM’s deft move in the election.
 
 The   move, however, has raised questions on coalition ethics within its ranks and the LDF.
 
 Several LDF leaders were viewing the CPM backing KC(M) as a shock treatment to CPI, which, of late, has launched a scathing attack on the CPM and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.
 
 “The CPM wanted to make a statement that there is scope for coalition politics beyond the CPI too. I think it will have the desired effect,” said a leader of an LDF constituent.
 
 The CPM was also apprehensive whether K M Mani would move towards the   camp. With fissures in its alliance with the BDJS becoming apparent, BJP’s national leadership has been keen on wooing KC (M). It was learnt that the BJP national president Amit Shah had directed the state leadership to bring KC(M) to the NDA fold.
 
 The CPM, now by its support in Kottayam, has halted, perhaps temporarily, Mani’s progress towards the NDA camp.
 
 Meanwhile, the Congress was yet to recover from the shock. It might not pardon Mani for what its leaders considered as ‘cheating and opportunistic attitude’.
 
 Sources in the Congress said the party leaders, especially those from Kottayam, were in touch with a section of KC(M) leaders. The erstwhile KC (Joseph) leaders were unhappy over Mani’s sudden decision to seek CPM support. 
 
 They also suspect a conspiracy as they felt Mani might have struck a deal with the CPM to settle the bar bribery case.
 
 The entry of Oommen Chandy, with a strong statement against K M Mani, has been seen as a clear signal that the Congress won’t remain idle.
 
 “If KC (M) wants to join CPM, they can. But, the KC (M) which will be in the LDF camp won’t be the same as the one that was with us,” said a Congress leader.
 
 The role of Jose K Mani in engineering the deal was raised by almost all Congress leaders with a purpose: a significant number of leaders in KC(M) have been against Jose Mani leading them. The Congress would be banking on their support to engineer a split in the KC(M) and exact revenge.
 
