NEW DELHI: Justice A P Shah, the former chairman of the   and the ex-chief justice of the Delhi high court, has said that the Supreme Court judgment that struck down the   (NJAC) for appointment of judges is ‘greatly flawed and deserving of harsh criticism’.

 Justice Shah, who was speaking at a discussion here on Friday on appointment of judges, balancing transparency, accountability and independence of the judiciary, said the idea of the NJAC was a ‘very good one’, there were some deficiencies that could have been read down.
 
 “It is disturbing that the apex court was comfortable that judicial independence would be safe in the collegium system,” Justice Shah said, observing that the apex court constitution bench didn’t offer any real alternative while striking down the NJAC.
 
 Justice Shah questioned the Third Judge’s case of 1998 which became the basis on which the collegium system assumed primacy in appointment of judges for the higher judiciary. “The judgment in the Third Judge’s case lacked any detailed textual or normative reasoning, and read more like a policy brief. There was no safeguard against arbitrariness, no mechanism to gather data, and no criteria for selection. The system was 
  and shrouded in secrecy,” the former Law commission chairman said.
 
 He recalled how the collegium led by Justice M M Punchhi as the CJI in January 1998 gave the government an ultimatum to appoint all judges recommended by his collegium after the government rejected some names. The executive protested by seeking a presidential reference on certain 
  expressed in the Second Judge’s case. Though the second judges case gave primacy to the collegium in case of disagreement, it had not given the CJI absolute power. It said that the President could reject the Chief Justice’s opinion in exceptional circumstances.
 
 “This led to the 
 1 of 1998, also known as the Third Judge’s case
  which held that consultation would mean consent of the CJI. The decision presumed that the primacy of the CJI was an established position of law, but provided no reason for this presumption,” Justice Shah said.
 
 The former chief justice of the Delhi high court said that the present collegium system lacks transparency. He quoted Justice Kurian Joseph, one of the judges on the five-judge constitution bench that struck down the NJAC, acknowledging in the NJAC judgment that “the present collegium system lacks transparency, accountability and objectivity and very serious allegations, and many a time not unfounded too, have been raised that its approach has been highly subjective”.
 
 Justice Shah concurred with the opinion of Justice Ruma Pal, a former judge of the apex court, that the process by which a judge is appointed to the high court or the SC is “one of the best kept secrets in this country”. There is also the problem of bias, self-selection and favouritism. The collegium functions like a club or cabal, he said.
 
 He, however, said that this “secrecy can also be exploited by the executive, giving them opportunities to interfere in the appointment process, which can be seen from recent reports”.
 
 On the current deadlock between the judiciary and the executive on framing of a memorandum of procedure for appointment of judges, Justice Shah was critical of the collegium rejecting both the proposals made by the government on setting up of a screening committee for all prospective judges comprising eminent persons and retired judges to ensure criteria-based selections. “The second proposal (of a veto on national security ground) is definitely troubling, for the government cannot usurp veto power in the garb of national security, and the introduction of this,” he added. 
 
 
