PUNE: Daily commuters on the buses operated by the   (PMPML) have begun to notice a few positive changes in the way the transport utility operates.

 The changes are a direct result of PMPML's new chairman and managing director  .
 
 The administrator, who enjoys a reputation as a hard taskmaster, did not take long to shake things up after taking over the reins of the transport utility on March 29. He immediately introduced a slew of measures, mostly directed at getting the employees to fall in line. his larger aim has been to improve the quality of services and the passenger experience.
 
  
  
 Asha Ghodpade, who lives near Kothrud, had a pleasant experience the other day . “I was traveling on a bus towards Fatimanagar. When I boarded the bus, the conductor immediately sprang into action -he asked a man who had occupied a seat reserved for women to vacate the spot. It was heartening to see the man comply . I have been travelling on public buses for the last two years, and this is the first time I'm seeing something like this,“ she said.
 
 Sanjay Shitole, an active member of the PMP Pravasi Manch and a frequent bus commuter, recounted his experience too.
 
 “Two days ago, I had gone to the Katraj depot and spoke to an official about the problems faced by people on buses. He immediately noted down my complaint and contacted the driver of the bus in which I had travelled. Then on Thursday , when I told a conductor about the problems I had noticed in that particular bus, he immediately noted down my observations in a log book. Such things are unprecedented in the PMPML,“ Shitole said.
 
 However, Shitole said he disagrees with the severity of the action taken against a few errant employees -docking salaries, suspensions and fines for various infractions. “Rather than suspending them for each mistake, they should be made aware of the importance of conducting themselves in a professional manner, and about moving with the times. Armtwisting can be counter-productive,“ he said. Not unexpectedly , Mundhe's reformation drive has ruffled a few feathers within the ranks of the PMPML. The utility's workers' union wrote to Mundhe, demanding an explanation for his hardline stance.They were of the opinion that Mundhe was stepping out of line, as the employees are covered under various rules and re gulations.
 
 “While we support Tukaram Mundhe's directives and actions, there needs to be an investigation before people get suspended. It appears that the log books were not checked, and many suspensions were carried out without due process. Some people had just gone out (of the office) for a while, while there are many who take time climbing the stairs owing to their advanced age. We have written a letter to the chairman and managing director, and he had assured us that he will meet us in a few days. Our future course will be decided after the meeting,“  , president of PMP Kamgar Sangh (INTUC), said.
 
