PATNA:   (PU) will soon set up a centenary cultural centre on its campus to commemorate 100 glorious years of its existence. The proposed centre will have an auditorium with a sitting capacity of 2,500, a cafeteria, a library, an information centre and a placement cell.

 Soon after assuming charge on Tuesday, newly-appointed vice-chancellor (VC) Ras Bihari Prasad Singh said the university would organize a centenary run in the city in which officials, teachers, employees, students and alumni would participate. According to him, “A grand function will be held on October 1 to celebrate PU’s centenary as the state government has agreed to provide all possible help in organizing the celebrations. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to be the chief guest on the occasion.”
 
 Singh, who has spent 52 years in PU as a student, teacher, proctor, HoD and principal, said the VC alone could do nothing. “I believe in team work and collective leadership and seek the cooperation of all, including teachers, employees, students, alumni, guardians and the government in restoration of PU’s lost glory and re-creating a healthy academic environment. All the genuine grievances of teachers and non-teaching staff will be redressed and pending cases of teachers’ promotion cleared at the earliest,” he added. 
 
 According to Singh, elections to the university students’ union, last held in 2012, will be conducted again this year after the beginning of the next academic session in August. “Elections will be held as per the recommendations of the Lyngdoh Committee. Each department will be asked to organize parents-teachers’ meet at regular intervals for sorting out the problems of students,” he said, adding a centenary volume highlighting the various achievements of the university right since its inception would also be published.
 
 PU’s new pro-VC Dolly Sinha, who also assumed office on Tuesday, said she would strive hard for improving the academic standard of the university. “Necessary steps will be taken for expediting complete automation of office work and implementation of cashless transactions on the campus,” she added.
 
 Earlier, both the VC and pro-VC were accorded a hearty reception by the Patna University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) at a function at   on Tuesday.
 
 PUTA president Randhir Kumar Singh, vice-presidents N P   and Shefali Roy, joint secretaries   and Irshad Ali and treasurer D P Kamal addressed the meeting and drew the attention of the PU authorities towards their long pending problems. PUTA general secretary Abhay Kumar proposed the vote of thanks.
 
