LUCKNOW: Seven-year-old   has surprised many among his family and friends by showing a long-standing desire for initiation to  . 

 He started playing with his father’s kirpan (dagger) around the same time that he learnt to stand, his parents say.
 
 As he grew older, his inclination towards the Sikh Rehni (way of life) and their articles of faith became quite evident to his parents.
 
 Even before they could think of getting him baptized to become a  , the little boy showed interest in Amrit Sanchar, the initiation rite for the to step into Khalsahood. On the auspicious day of   this year, he became one.
 
 “One day, he walked up to me and said he wanted to become a Khalsa. He was six at that time... I was astonished by his words. Many of our family members are Amritdhari and we usually talk about it, but I never thought he would show such deep understanding of the religion,” said Viraj’s grandmother, who accompanied him to the ceremony at Naka  . 
 
 Several other boys and girls below the age of 10 were initiated to Khalsahood at various gurdwaras across the city on the occasion of Baisakhi.
 
 Once baptized to become a Khalsa or an Amritdhari Sikh, a person is bound to adhere to a set of rules which include always keeping with oneself the 5Ks of kesh (uncut hair), kangha (comb), kara (metal bracelet), kaccha (underpants) and kirpan. 
 
 One also abstains from eating meat, cohabiting with a person other than one’s spouse and indulging in any sort of addiction.
 
 The children who became Khalsa on Thursday did not just know about all the rules of the practice but also seemed eager to follow them. Nine-year-old Kawal Deep Kaur, who came with her father for the ceremony, said, “Now that I am wearing a kirpan of my own, I will never remove it from my body.” 
 
 For Amrit Singh, 9, it was his parents who wished to get him baptized but the boy had all knowledge about the ritual.
 
 It wasn’t just children who became Amritdharis on the day, several women too opted to become Khalsas. Sheetal Arora, a homemaker, said though no one in her family is a Khalsa, it was her wish to start leading a life driven by spirituality.
 
 “My husband asked me if I was sure of my decision. I told him he too should start thinking about becoming one. I think it gives a unique strength to a person,” she said.
 
 Gyani Devendra Singh, the head priest of Naka Gurdwara, vouched for the trend catching up. 
 
 “For a few years, we have seen an increase in the number of people wanting to become Khalsa. The ceremony of Amritpaan happens thrice in the year and I think more than 100 people come for it every year. The number of women and children is on a steep rise.”
 
