Jaipur: With increasing prevalence of lung cancer and tuberculosis, Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital’s Institute of Respiratory Disease is taking lead to help developing bronchoscopy facilities in other parts of the state by imparting training to doctors in flexible bronchoscopy.

 If talking about availability of bronchoscopy, only hospitals attached to government medical colleges are equipped with the facility. While other government hospitals including district hospitals do not have such facilities.
 
 “Diagnosis of tuberculosis and lung cancer in early stage increases chances of survival of the patient. If a patient is suffering from lung cancer and the doctor is providing him treatment of TB, in the absence of correct diagnoses of the disease, it will further deteriorate patient’s condition,” said, Dr Sheetu Singh, Pulmonary Specialist, SMS Hospital during bronchoscopy training conducted at IRD in collaboration of Indian Chest Society Rajasthan branch.
 
 The workshop was attended by 50 pulmonologists from different parts of the state.
 
 Flexible bronchoscopy is an endoscopic procedure in which the airways abnormalities such as lung cancer and tuberculosis can be diagnosed. Lung cancer is one of the most dangerous types of tumours. By the time diagnosis takes place it becomes too late. Early diagnosis of the same helps in prompt treatment and improvement of patient’s condition, said Dr Singh.
 
 Dr RK Jenaw of SMS Hospital, organizing chairperson of the training, said that such workshops help young doctors to start bronchoscopy at peripheral level.
 
 The two-day workshop was an intense training which included discussions on how to do bronchoscopy, airway abnormalities encountered, how to take samples and manage complications.
 
 The experts also talked about that some patients are unable to produce sputum due to certain medical reasons, a sputum test for diagnoses for TB is not possible among such patients. In such cases, bronchoscopy help in diagnoses of TB.
 
 
