The   has cancelled the scheduled broadcast of the film ' '.

 The Oscar-winning movie was scheduled to telecast today on Sony Pictures Network’s channel, Sony Le PLEX HD. But yesterday it received a notice from the CBFC, which termed the film’s theme — about the world’s first sex reassignment surgery — unsuitable for broadcast. The channel tweeted its dismay stating, “We regret to inform you that Sony Le Plex HD is unable to telecast the television premiere of the award-winning film 'The Danish Girl' on March 26 as the necessary certification to enable the telecast of the movie has not been received.”
 
 The film, which released theatrically in India last year, received an A certification from the CBFC. “The whole subject is controversial, and it’s unsuitable to be viewed by children. It talks about a man who wants a sex change and has a genital operation to become a woman. The subject is sensitive and how do you edit a subject like that?” said a CBFC board member, who did not want to be identified.
 
 She added that the reason for allowing the theatrical release with zero cuts was “to retain the essence of the movie as it sensitively shows the dilemma of a person who doesn’t identify with his gender”.
 
 The board official explained how every film that receives an A certification for the theatrical release has to reapply for certification for television broadcast. “The Censor Board’s job is not to cut, but to see each movie individually in its context and under the guidelines provided to us. We are a multicultural nation and we have to maintain a balance. What may be suitable for a metropolis, may not be suitable for a small village,” explained the CBFC official.
 
 When contacted for a response, director   said, “I am against any form of censorship in the first place. The whole point is that one disagrees with the process as it has been going on. I have been assigned as the chairman of the committee which was set up to define what the CBFC should be doing and the reports have been submitted in October last year.”
 
 
