KOLKATA: Indian Museum is all set to rewrite history this  , when the 200year-old institution throws open a room for nursing mothers -visitors as well as museum employees -to breast feed their babies. The Mother and Child Room, which will also be called Lactation Room, will be the first of its kind in any state-run museum of the country.

 With at least 10 lakh visitors in a year, the Indian Museum is one of the most visited spots in the city. If things go according to plans, a similar facility will be set up inside the   s well. Both the heritage monuments are run by the ministry of culture, which has sanctioned the funds to furnish the room at the museum to facilitate nursing. It will be opened to all visiting new mothers and employees on Sunday to celebrate motherhood. The museum has a little over 30 women employees out of its total staff strength of 200 plus. Add to this casual workers and positions that have been outsourced, who do not enjoy same maternity leave facilities that central government employees do. Resuming work before their babies are weaned off is a hurdle that the museum authorities want to handhold their employees and visiting new mothers through.
 
 “For years, we have seen how new mothers visiting the museum would try to look for a corner, turn their backs to prying eyes and breast feed their babies. Similarly, one can understand the separation anxiety that employees go through when they have breast-fed babies they leave at home. When we are talking about inclusion everywhere, it was time that we thought about our mothers,“ said Jayanta  , director of the museum and curator of Victoria Memorial.
 
 The museum is diverting two women casual employees to the Lactation Room to help mothers. They will tend to babies while their mothers visit different exhibitions. Similarly, women employees can keep their babies in their care, go about their work and come back to feed their babies. “We will start off on Sunday and as we progress, we will monitor if we can modify the facilty further. There are some more rooms in our administrative blocks that are not in use. We will see if these can be converted if the demand is more than the space we have been able to provide now,“ Sengupta said.
 
 Times View
 
 It's a beautiful gesture by the museum authorities.We must make tourist hot spots in the city as friendly as possible to all sections of visitors. This is a thoughtful way of enhancing Kolkata's soft power.
 
