PATNA: Even as the 98-year-old Patna University Central Library had earned the dubious distinction of becoming a “rain basera” (night shelter) for the local youth during the last 10 to 15 years, it is likely to hum with academic activities soon. Thanks to the recent efforts made by the authorities concerned, the completely renovated and modernized library will be handed over to the campus people by governor-cum-chancellor Keshari Nath Tripathi on July 26.

 The library was completely shut for students and visitors for almost two years during the period of renovation work undertaken by the Bihar State Educational Infrastructure Development Corporation. The renovation of the entire library, including its reading, periodicals, thesis (PhD), reference and manuscripts sections has been completed. “Now the new-look library awaits its genuine users,” said library professor-in-charge S R Padmadeo.
 
 Steps have already been initiated to introduce complete automation in library services. An e-library has been set up with the installation of 15 computer terminals to start with and the UGC has been approached for linking   library with its INFLIBNET (information and library networking) scheme, providing PU scholars with an easy access to all the major research journals of different subjects. Earlier, this library did have the INFLIBNET link, but it was not used properly by the academics for some reasons.
 
 “PU authorities have also approached the state government for sanctioning Rs 2.60 crore for the much-needed library automation work,” said Padmadeo. A 62.5 KVA silent diesel generator has also been installed to ensure uninterrupted power supply even in case of general power failure. The entire library premises has been brought under the surveillance of CCTV with the installation of 30 cameras at strategic locations.
 
 The most precious possession of this library, the manuscripts section, has also been completely renovated with the cleaning of all the old and rare manuscripts. The National Mission for Manuscripts’ Conservation and the Khuda Baksh Oriental Public Library have already agreed to extend help to the university in the conservation and digitization of all these manuscripts.
 
 The library has got more than 5,500 rare manuscripts besides dozens of coins of ancient period in its possession.
 
 The manuscripts include 1,530 in Persian, 440 in Urdu, 316 in Arabic and 2,547 in Sanskrit, Maithili and Hindi. They are written on leather, ‘Bhojpatra’, palm leaves, Nepali paper and on paper with gold and silver linings. Some based on Maithili Vyakaran (grammar), the Ramayana, the Mahabharata and the history of Bihar and Magadh belong to the 13th century. Other prized possessions include Saroj Kalika and Malti Madhawan of 14th century, Tolinama and Rishala Sifat Jaruriya of 15th century, Jahangir nama and Vrihat Jatak of 16th century and Laila Majnu of 17th century besides some work of the period of emperor Akbar, said the library incharge. 
 
 The governor will dedicate this renovated section to the people on July 26 besides unveiling the PU centenary globe inside the library premises.
 
 
