MUMBAI: The growing clout of murder convict Manjula Shetye over other inmates in the   women's jail and her complaint against substandard boiled eggs served in prison were the immediate causes of her killing, states the city crime branch in its chargesheet, which is likely to be presented on Monday.

 Sources said the chargesheet will probably be over 3,000 pages and will comprise FIRs on murder and rioting, call detail reports (CDRs), statements of around 80 persons, including 50 jail inmates, doctors, and most importantly the statement of NCP MLA  , who had stated he saw four inmates being taken out of the barracks to clean the crime scene.
 
 The police said CCTV footage where six jail personnel, including jailor Manisha Pokharkar, are seen assaulting Shetye by pulling her hair is clinching evidence against them. The crime branch arrested all six, including guards Bindu Naikode, Waseema Shaikh, Sheetal Shegaokar, Surekha Gudve and Aarti Shingane, on the charge of murder. The assault occurred on June 23. 
 
 The six cops allegedly kicked and punched Shetye, causing 16 contusions (as later made out by the postmortem report). The Nagpada police on June 24 registered an FIR after the report revealed that the contusions were the cause of death. After hearing the news of Shetye's death, the jail’s inmates went berserk, resorting to arson.
 
 They assaulted jail staff and broke CCTV cameras. They broke open the lock of the terrace, went there and tried to gather the attention of the public and the media. Following this, an FIR of rioting was filed against several jail inmates, including   murder accused Indrani Mukherjee. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Sanjay Saxena said the chargesheet in the Shetye murder case will be filed on Monday. The police said there was no intention to kill Shetye, and that it occurred in the fraction of a second. An officer said the jail scenario is explained in the chargesheet. Shetye was convicted for killing her sister-in-law in 2004. 
 
 After spending years in Pune’s Yerwada jail, she was transferred to Byculla jail in 2016. For good conduct and given her seniority, she was made a warden. There are reports that in that capacity, she used to “act smart” with other inmates. Senior officers have rubbished that a wooden stick was put in Shetye's privates. “Our investigation as well the post-mortem report have ruled out any sexual assault,” apolice officer said. The case witnessed several ups and downs and allegations and counter-allegations. 
 
 DIG (prisons) Swati Sathe, who was asked by the home department to conduct an independent inquiry into Shetye's murder, sent a message on the jail’s WhatsApp group asking colleagues to support the six arrested jail staff. This message went viral on social media. Also, JJ Hospital doctor Vishwas Roke, jail superintendent Chandramani Indulkar and jail officer Tanaji Gharbudve were suspended for dereliction of duty.
 
