NAGPUR: When environment writer   was named a recipient for Vinda Karandikar Jeevan Gourav Puraskar award, the lifetime achievement award by Maharashtra Government’s department of Marathi Language, not only Nagpur, but cheers echoed throughout the state.

 Chitampalli, a former deputy chief conservator of forests, has brought Marathi readers closer to environment through his books, which he penned by spending over 30 years in forests. He has also been referred to as ‘aranya rishi’.
 
 Excerpts from an interview...
 
 
 I have spent 30 years in forest as an officer. I used to observe birds, animals, their behaviour and write my observations in a diary. I later compiled those observations into 21 books. I got the opportunity to pursue   along with noted ornithologist  . We travelled together for almost 20 years. I was in Panvel then and almost every week, we would go to Karnala for bird watching. I have preserved diaries containing 30 years of notes.
 
 
 Tiger is not our animal. It came from China to the foothills of Himalaya, and first entered Bengal, making them ‘Bengal Tiger’. If a tiger and lion fight, a lion will always end up killing the tiger. But in many cases, a lion has been overpowered by a bunch of tigers, and this phenomenon has taken place till Kanyakumari. Taking Nagpur as a centre, 26 sanctuaries in and around can be visited, giving advantage to the tourism department in the city. The department should not attract customers by luring them of tiger sightings; rather, they should educate visitors of all species in the forest.
 
 
 When I was a forest officer, I would make it a point to relieve forests from lantana and wild tulsi, which is useless for an animal to survive. This grass brought by Britishers as an ornamental bush, is thick and has thorns,
 makes it impossible for tigers, panthers or lions to pass through them. The grassland is encroached. Also, what about food for deer? Unlike humans, deer stop breeding when there’s no food. There was no problem of human attacks by animals when I was the officer.
 
 
 The generation today does not read. They don’t know the difference between information and knowledge. They want ‘shortcuts’. A boy once came to me and said, “I have two months of summer holidays. You have to teach me bird watching in that time.” How can I teach something which took me 30 years in 2 months? People should be learning about all types of animals and birds in a forest, but I never see them carrying binoculars or taking notes. They show me their camera and say, ‘we’ll manage with our phone’. They don’t pause and observe, they click a ‘pic’ and move to the next subject.
 
 
