BONGAON: A court in Bongaon, North 24-Parganas, sentenced three   terrorists, including two Pakistani nationals, to death on Saturday for waging war against the nation. The third man is from Anantnag in Jammu & Kashmir. The two Pakistanis had undergone a 21-day training at an LeT camp and had plans to carry out strikes on Army installations in J&K, they confessed. The three were also allegedly involved in the 2006 Mumbai train blasts that killed 209 people.

 Md Yunus (60) alias Bilal, Md Abdullah (34) alias Ahmed Ali and   (32) were nabbed by the BSF near Petrapole on April 4, 2007, while they were crossing over to India from Bangladesh without valid documents. They were then arrested and the CID took up the case. Another person,   (36) alias  , a resident of Maharashtra’s Aurangabad, was also arrested with the trio and had allegedly prepared documents like fake EPICs and driver’s licences for them. Nayeem, an engineer by profession, who was also studying law, escaped from a train in Chhattisgarh on August 24, 2014, when the four were being taken to Mumbai for probe into their role in the 2006 blasts. 
 
 The CID came to know Abdullah was a teacher and lived in Karachi while Yunus is from Pakistan’s Haripur. It also came to light that the two were trained in the use of automatic weapons and grenades. They had also received training in making improvised explosive devices. Abdullah and Yunus had travelled from Karachi to Dhaka with valid documents and put up in a hotel. They were joined there by Rather and the three tried to sneak into India through the porous Indo-Bangladesh border along West Bengal.
 
 They were booked under the Foreigner’s Act and charged with criminal conspiracy and waging war against the nation. Though their lawyer Subrata Basu submitted that their terror links had not been established, the public prosecutor placed signed statements in which the trio had revealed their plans to carry out strikes on Army establishments. On Monday, Binoy Pathak, judge of the Additional District Judge’s Fast Track 1st Court, convicted the three and informed them that they may be sentenced to death.
 
 Abdullah told the judge that no material was found on them during their arrest that could link them to terrorism. This was when the judge pointed to nitro glycerine found in one of Nayeem’s hideouts. This chemical is used to make IEDs. The judge also wanted to know why Abdullah and Yunus chose to spend 21 days in an LeT camp. 
 
 
