NOIDA:  , who is accused of engineering a Rs 3,700-crore Ponzi scam online, eventually wanted to set up an Indian version of Facebook. He used the Ponzi scheme as a means to get there, giving the old concept of pyramid marketing a digital-era dressing.

 Based on what investigators and investors claim, Mittal, a 26-year-old BTech graduate, designed his Ponzi scheme as a digital marketing initiative. He created a domain,  , with its own servers and an exclusive ecosystem of users.
 
 Social Trade functioned like any other social networking website. A user who registered got an account. Only, in this case, one needed to ‘invest’, or pay a subscription — in four slabs of Rs 5,750, Rs 11,500, Rs 28,750 and Rs 57,500. If anyone wanted to promote a business, like several of the protesters who gathered on Sunday at Jantar Mantar had, links to their website would be sent to others, increasing hits and likes. For some, it meant recognition and more online traction of their ventures. That could explain why so many people have felt it was a legitimate operation.
 
 But unlike a legitimate social network that raises money through digital ads, Social Trade raised its funds through the Ponzi subscriptions, said investigators. Its users, nearly 6.5 lakh, formed a huge community in which they ended up promoting each other’s interests, all in a controlled environment created by Mittal, by hitting likes on links they got. That’s why this Ponzi fraud is unlike any other, in both being camouflaged as a digital marketing initiative and use of the internet, that investigators have seen. It could also open a Pandora’s box as financial agencies start scrutinising avenues they hadn’t before to detect spurious funds. 
 
 UP Police’s special task force (STF), which busted the racket in Noida on February 2, said any such business is prohibited and illegal according to RBI guidelines and the Prize Chits and  , 1978.
 
 STF SSP Amit Pathak said Mittal and his partners had asked people to invest money promising they will be given URLs to promote websites, and get returns. It was made mandatory for each investor to share one website during registration. “Since most people had no commercial websites, they shared their own Facebook and Twitter pages and other websites. The company then circulated their pages among other investors for ‘likes’ and kept them engaged,” he said.
 
 Investigators said the rate of return was so slow that investors could get their money back in six months while the company made a killing as each investor had to enrol two new members in 20 days.
 
 “Why would a common person pay the company for getting his Facebook and Twitter pages liked? This was a scam and we made a crackdown on time. The business model of Social Trade had no return possible on investment. Since there was huge gap in the rate of return to investors and revenue generation by the company, the accused used money of new investors to satisfy old ones and made a pyramid in a short span of time,” Pathak said. The number of complaints received at reportfraud@upstf.com reached 5,600 on Monday.
 
 On Sunday’s protests, Pathak said, “We suspect people who took part in the protest were motivated by the company.”
 
 
