Shimla: For the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Kangra district in the state seems to have gained enormous importance with the party leaving no stone unturned to consolidate its position. Party’s national president Amit Shah’s visit to Kangra is a vindication of the importance the district holds for the BJP to wrest power from the Congress. The party’s effort was a damp squib in the previous assembly elections which gave it only three of the 15 seats, while arch rival Congress bagged 10 and independents two seats. 

 Now, courtesy the slogan “Mission 50 Plus”, the party is focused on increasing its tally in the next assembly polls.
 
 Shah knows how crucial the district is and hence has chosen Kangra to be the venue for the core group meeting to discuss the poll strategy. Immediately after his arrival in Palampur, Shah chaired a meeting which was also attended by former chief ministers Prem Kumar Dhumal and Shanta Kumar, Union health minister J P Nadda, state president Satpal Singh Satti and Hamirpur MP Anurag Thakur.
 
 Looking at the political map in the state, Kangra plays a crucial role holding 15 out of the 68 assembly seats in the state. The common notion is that if you get a resounding mandate in the district, then forming the government is a foregone conclusion. The Virbhadra Singh led Congress government in Himachal Pradesh has strong representation from Kangra, which includes state assembly Speaker B B L Butail, cabinet ministers - G S Bali, Sujan Singh Pathania and Sudhir Sharma, chief parliamentary secretaries - Neeraj Bharti and Jagjivan Pal.
 
 In 2012, the BJP managed to win only Dehra, Jaswan Pragpur and Shahpur. After launching its “Mission Repeat” campaign, the Congress played the master stroke by officially declaring Dharamsala as the second capital of the state to fulfill the long pending demands of residents of lower Himachal. According to sources, in 2012 factionalism within the BJP did the party in. 
 
 To make matters worse, the party still does not have to have a CM face for the next assembly polls unlike the Congress which is contesting under the leadership of the incumbent CM. A senior BJP leader said projecting a chief ministerial candidate would lead to internal bickerings within the party. During the “Parivartan Rally” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Shimla on April 27, state president Satti had said that instead of “Mission 50 Plus” BJP would work for “Mission 60 Plus” by reducing the Congress party to just eight seats.
 
 However, the Congress party only scoffs at the exaggerated ambition of the BJP. Irrigation and public health minister Vidya Stokes said that BJP leaders should stop dreaming about coming to power as people of the state are aware who their well wishers are. She also said that BJP leaders during the last assembly election made tall claims that tax on import of apple would be enhanced to 100 per cent which was never fulfilled.
 
 “It is unfortunate that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has no concern for Himachal Pradesh and no steps were taken during the last three years to enhance tax on apple import and expansion of railways. Not only that cut has been made in the centrally sponsored schemes but state BJP leaders are claiming that the Modi government has provided adequate funds to the state,” she added.
 
 
