MUMBAI: Alarmed at the damage being caused to the 119-year-old heritage building of J N   during construction of Metro Line III, its trustees have moved court to seek a stay on work at   station. A heavy limestone finial, an ornamental feature, fell on August 25. The paver blocks showed signs of sinking on September 5. This is causing concern since the building has a shallow foundation of around three metres, say the trustees.

 The grade II A heritage building at Fort, built in Neo Gothic Revival style, is used as a Reading Room. The library , with 1 lakh books, boasts of 2,400 rare books and 12 manuscripts some of which date back to the 17th century . Its doors are open to all.
 
 DV M Patel and Homa Petit, trustees of The  , filed the petition. They want the HC to direct work to cease till a comprehensive survey of all buildings along D N Road, including the Institute, is carried out by an independent structural engineer and conservation architect.The trustees say the alignment of the Metro line III should be diverted if the findings suggest so.
 
 The plea was scheduled to be heard on Monday before a bench headed by Chief Justice Manjula Chellur and was adjourned to Wednesday . It will be heard along with a petition filed by advocate Robin Jaisinghani to restrain work in violation of noise pollution laws. The plea is for MMRCL restore the fallen finial and pay for any other repairs required.
 
 The trustees said they have “no objection'' to Metro III, but want to make sure the `Heritage Mile' is not damaged. MMRDA, the state and Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MMRCL) are respondents in the petition. MMRCL is constructing the underground Colaba-Seepz line. The contract was awarded to a joint venture of L&T and   .
 
 The trust had, in February , given permission for a necessary pre-condition survey of the building. On March 6, it received a letter from L&T stating the work would not impact the aesthetics of the building and assured there were “qualified structural engineers available to take care of the structural stability of the building.'' Digging activity had commenced on May 25 along the DN Road stretch from Siddharth College to the Petit building.“Though no monitoring instruments were installed in the building,'' says the petition, the drilling caused “tremendous vibrations'' and “even heavy , old fur niture was vibrating.'' “The callous and negligent attitude of the respondents in continuing unmonitored drilling and construction within a distance of less than two to three feet from the building and other heritage buildings resulted in an architectural and decorative feature getting dislodged and falling on the morning of August 25...It is fortunate it fell on the unoccupied ground and not on the adjoining pavement,“ the plea states.
 
