I was lying in bed and waiting for my mother’s good night kiss. My sister covered from head to toe with her duvet already, started to snore. I heard a sudden shriek and sat on the bed. Right then my mother came and gently pushed me back to lie, kissed my forehead and said, “Good night dear, sleep well”. I asked her, “What was that sound, Ammi?” My mother sighed, “Someone shouting at the end of our street, it doesn’t matter dear. You sleep.” Then she left the room. I knew that she was lying. I have been hearing these sounds for quite some time and I know they are shrills from my neighbour's house and not from somewhere down the street. Everyday, my mother gave me the same reply to the incessant questions that I never failed to ask. I could never muster up the courage to step out of the bed and check from the veranda. I was eight years old then.
 
  It was mid-summer afternoon. I heard whimpering near the dining table and peeped from my room to see my mother chatting with the aunty next door in our living room. I couldn't understand their exchange so I walked straight to the refrigerator near dining table and pretended to search something inside. I saw the aunty wiping her tears with the 
  of her saree. Then she requested if she could call her mother; my mother dialled the number.
  
  Curious, a couple of questions started to prick me. Didn’t she have a telephone in her house? Why did she come here to make a call? Fearing getting caught in my eavesdropping escapade, I went inside my room.
  
  After that day the wailing stopped. I never saw the aunty again. It left me wondering what happened after that day. The same evening my questions were answered.
  
  A huge drama unfolded and I heard a loud shriek of the old lady and rushed to the window to check. I could see everything clearly. Aunty’s   was running behind her holding a short stout stick and aunty was crying loudly and pleading her not to beat. She sprinted here and there but couldn’t escape her wrath. And her   was standing like a mute spectator. Suddenly I heard a heavy thud sound from the room, after which the uncle shouted at her mother and left the house. That old lady might have impinged her to the wall. My heart skipped a beat! And then a line of serenity spread through the house. That was unbearable. Gossips surrounding the happening of the day spread like a plague.
  
  I overheard my mother narrating the story to my grandmother. After calling her mother the other day, aunty packed her bags and left the house. Her in-laws were harassing her for   and she was tortured everyday. Though her husband didn’t beat or scold her but he never spoke against his mother. The torture continued for seven long years! The day she was beaten in full public view concluded with her parents coming with legal officers and the head of the village to resolve the issue. Shortly thereafter we moved from that village and it's been 15 years since I heard anything about the aunty.
  
  But recently I saw her at a wedding. The woman who was always seen wailing, now looked happy and beautiful in her Kanjivaram saree. Her mother-in-law looked frail and sat behind her. As soon as aunty spotted me, she hugged me and took me to her mother-in-law. The lady stood up with quivering hands and kissed me saying, “How big you are now dear!” She was stammering. I sat beside her. My mother came and they both exchanged wishes and hugged each other. Tears rolled down her eyes. My mother consoled her and aunty told her that the mother-in-law suffered from a mild stroke and was completely bed-ridden for almost two years, with nobody to look after her. Hence, aunty decided to bring her to her house and looked after her like a daughter would do.
  
  See the irony of life! The   was now looking after her ailing mother-in-law who once ill-treated her. I was relieved to see aunty living happily with her family. Her mother-in-law by now might have realized her felony and repented her deeds.
  
  A lesson was learnt. ‘Life never remains the same’.
  
  (By Ghousia Begum) 
