PUNE: The Bombay   has granted bail to a man who has been in jail since January on charges of rape and assault.

 He was arrested in January after his live-in partner lodged an   with the   alleging rape and assault. 
 
 The woman, in her statement recorded before a magistrate, narrated how the man left her for another woman after living with her since 2008. She added that she still desired to marry and live with him.
 
 Justice  , while referring to the woman’s statement and the fact that the (bail) applicant has been in custody since January 31, said, “The applicant and the complainant are both major and were in a live-in relationship, which appears to have gone sour, pursuant to which the aforesaid complaint has been lodged. Considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, the application is allowed and the applicant is enlarged on bail.”
 
 The bench ordered the applicant’s release against a personal release bond of Rs 10,000 and one or two sureties in the like amount. It also said that the observations made in the order are prima facie and the trial court shall decide the case on its merits, in accordance with law. 
 
 Both the complainant and the applicant are divorcees. They met each other in 2007 and their acquaintance developed into a relationship. The man even met the complainant’s family members and the two had decided to marry after the complainant got a divorce. From 2008, they started living together in a rented premises, and then in a house purchased by the woman. 
 
 She alleged that the man forced her into a physical relationship against the promise of marriage and later on started demanding money and even assaulted her once. In December 2016, when she was pregnant, she had to abort the child at the behest of the man, she said.
 
 She added that he left home on January 3 and then did not answer or return her repeated calls. 
 
 On January 15, she saw him with another woman and questioned him. But, he slapped and verbally abused her, she said, adding that this prompted her to lodge an FIR.
 
