PUNE: Resident doctors’ agitation against assault on their peers stands   from usual stirs for reasons more than one.

 Breaking free from the shackles of herd-mentality, their fight this time around has been mainly governed by the cause than any personality. In fact, experts say, this agitation stands out since it doesn’t involve a central figure to lead the fight.
 
 It all started with an attack on a doctor at a Dhule hospital. “The brutal attack on an orthopaedic doctor at a Dhule hospital was the trigger that made the resident doctors think about their safety issues deeper than before. After initial intervention by their association, it was a bunch of residents at different state-run medical colleges who ignited the minds of their colleagues and made an impact by standing united,” ophthalmologist Sanjay Patil, treasurer of   (IMA), Pune branch, said.
 
 The central idea behind the entire struggle being ‘incident-based’ added more credence, prompting the office-bearers of the resident doctors’ association stand up and take notice. Thus, making it for an unvarnished and plain-spoken honesty.
 
 “The agitation this time has been faceless. The local leadership in every city overshadowed the office-bearers of MARD and even ignored the association’s diktats issued during the period of agitation and rose above the office-bearers of that college and the city. We don’t even know their names,” a senior associate professor from the   attached Sassoon General Hospital said.
 
 This agitation more than anything else has emerged as inspiring, the experts said. “Despite previous assurances and court orders, ground reality remained the same. But the agitation has been inspiring because all the individual doctors came together like never before for the basic right to safety in working conditions. Everyone was so passionate about the fight that they were even ready to be suspended if need be. This shows how crucial the issue is for the doctors,” psychiatrist Sagar Mundada, past president of MARD and chairman of the youth wing of the IMA, said.
 
