BENGALURU: The underground Metro station at K R Market is all set to wear a heritage look, with the   (BMRC) firming up plans to develop a heritage corridor along the  .

 According to  , the department of archaeology has finally supported the idea of displaying a Tipu-era cannon at the station. The BMRC has been wanting to place the cannon, believed to be from Tipu Sultan’s armoury, at the K R Market station. However, the department of archaeology was initially reluctant to part with the period piece. 
 
 “The idea is to recreate a historic ambience along that Metro line, and displaying the Tipu-era cannon is a part of the plan. There were certain procedural issues to be addressed. Now, the plan’s on track,” said BMRC spokesperson U A Vasanth Rao. 
 
 According to the comprehensive plan, the K R Market station will be developed as an integrated space for commuters, with links to historical places in the vicinity. Tipu Sultan’s Summer Palace, his armoury in Kalasipalyam, the mud fort, Kote Venkataramana Swamy temple, and the century-old Victoria and Vanivilas hospitals are to be linked along the heritage corridor running parallel to the Namma Metro green line.
 
 Experts said the plan for historical restoration could supplement the proposed palace-to-palace heritage corridor to be named Swrana Valaya (golden corridor), linking Tipu’s summer palace to the Bangalore Palace, passing through KR Road, Avenue Road and Palace Road. The Swarna Valaya has been proposed by architect Naresh Narasimhan, in consultation with Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage.
 
 “As a civilised society it’s our duty to preserve heritage, and the idea of this corridor proposed by BMRC will definitely help the cause,” said Devarakonda Reddy, president of Karnataka Itihasa Academy. Rao said the K R Market Metro station is being modelled to reflect its historically rich surroundings, and that the station is going to be the gateway to a forgotten Bengaluru.
 
 The 12km south Metro corridor between Sampige Road Puttenahalli in JP Nagar is expected to be operational in April. Works on the heritage corridor will be carried out separately, and it’ll be over in a year’s time. A cannon was found at Bangalore Medical College campus in 2015, and thirteen cannon balls were unearthed at Karnataka Film Artistes Association last year. They are presently at the museum of the department of acheology.
 
 “The cannons and cannon balls are heritage pieces and they have been acquired under the provision of Treasure Trove Act that prevents us from parting with them. However, as they are state property, we can look into the proposal of displaying them at a Metro station, if the government so wishes and the required procedure is followed,” said R Gopal, director (museums), department of archaeology and museums. 
 
