In the February of 1948, as   went through the letter he had received from a hazy acquaintance, asking for his help to enter films as an actor, his mind raced through his own celluloid career. He had been bereft of singing talent at a time when it was the single great criterion for an actor, and was not endowed with any extraordinary acting talent either. He had had to depend on the goodwill of influential people in the film world for acting opportunities. In the 12 years since he had first acted in front of the camera, he had journeyed through a dark tunnel and had just about begun to see light.

 Still, camping in Coimbatore to play the supporting role of Arjuna in Jupiter Pictures’ ‘Abhimanyu’ that year, MGR could pat himself for having survived the winter of discontent. ‘Rajakumari’, released in the summer of 1947 with MGR in the lead role had been a success. He had seen enough of the film world to be able to write back to an aspiring actor in the manner of an elder brother giving guidance to an ingenuous sibling. 
 
 "Dear brother B G M S," he begins, assuming that the letter writer, whom he really knows little about, hails from a well -to-do family. We almost hear MGR sighing over his own years of penury when he had to wash his single dhoti and shirt every evening for the next day and retired for the night on a hungry stomach.
 
 "What are your motivations for becoming an actor," asks MGR to the addressee in the letter (published in the book ‘Kaanak Kidaikkaadha Kadithangal’, edited by ‘Mullai’ P L Muthiah). "Money? Fame? Art?" He goes on to give the possibilities of achieving these objectives. What he says in this regard sheds much light on MGR’s own career as well.
 
 "It is not proper to think that you can become rich by being an actor, because except for a few, all others are paid paltry sums. I say this from my own experience," he writes. MGR worked as an actor on a payment of `200 a month for ‘Rajakumari’ with the contracted amount being `2,500. But as the film’s production dragged on for months beyond a year, his friends had to bale him out.
 
 "As for fame," MGR goes on, "no new actor achieved instant popularity except in exceptional cases. I have been slogging it out for years". With middling results, he might have added. In the letter MGR also rules out the possibility of ‘art’ being an objective for entering cinema as films succeed because of hit songs or exciting stunts or special effects.
 
 The one operative part of the letter highlights the harsh reality faced by actors in MGR’s time. "If you have people who have the money to make a film with you, I can help you make it a success by choosing the right story for you and making you perform," he writes. A decade hence, MGR would prove with his dream film, ‘Nadodi Mannan’, which he produced, directed and acted in a double role, that his claim of having some hold on filmmaking was no empty boast.
 
 The other letter MGR wrote was from Mysore, where he was shooting for ‘Maruda Naattu Ilavarasi’ in February 1949. It was ostensibly written to the singer-actor M M Mariappa, MGR’s playback in ‘Rajakumari’. There is a sense of urgency in MGR’s letter, which ends with, "you must surely sing for me". Though Mariappa did sing for him in the film, the MGR-Mariappa tryst was short lived. Later MGR chose T M Sounderarajan as his playback in ‘Malaikallan’ (1954). The combination proved to be a resounding hit in over a hundred films. It lasted up to MGR’s last film, ‘Maduraiyai Meetta Sundara Pandian’. One of the songs of the film had a line that goes, "Our flag should fly over the Fort". When it echoed in the cinemas, MGR was already the chief minister. 
 
 (The author is a Tamil film music historian and author of books on Tamil cinema)
 
 
