JAIPUR: The   (AICC) on Tuesday appointed   as president of Rajasthan  . Chisti will replace Shakuntla Rawat, who has been elevated as general secretary of All India Mahila Congress. 

 Chisti's appointment was seen in the political circles as Congress high command's attempt to consolidate its base among minorities ahead of the 2018 assembly election. The demand for 'social engineering' was long pending in state Congress, as heads of Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC),   and Mahila Congress, all were from the same community-the Gujjars.
 
 Sources said Chisti was chosen over nearly 10 aspirants, including former minister Naseem Akhtar Insaf, former mayor Jyoti Khandelwal, ex-MLAs Mamta Bhupesh and Poonam Goyal, Shabnam Godara, Banarsi Meghwal and PCC vice-president Archana Sharma, who were interviewed for the post by AICC vice-president Rahul Gandhi a few months back.
 
 From being a grassroots Congress worker in 1985, Chisti has steadily risen in the state organisation over the past 31 years. Known for her dedication and simplicity, she continuously got assigned different responsibilities in Congress frontal organisations like Seva Dal and Youth Congress. Since 2014, she has been serving as PCC general secretary.
 
 "Many people do good work in the organisation but do not get noticed always. My priority in the new assignment would be to visit all districts to identify such dedicated workers and bring them to the fore. I got the big opportunity today because of my work. I will ensure that other committed workers also get similarly recognised," Chisti told TOI.
 
 Even as there were hushed voices doubting whether the appointment of a low profile person like Chisti would boost the party's prospects, there was equally strong support for her in the state organisation. "Her appointment will definitely mobilise the minority community as well as the Congress grassroots workers from other communities," said Khanu Khan Budwali, the PCC vice-president. "Mahila Congress will be strengthened with Chisti's appointment as she has always raised women's issues and knows the ground realities," said Manju Sharma, a PCC secretary.
 
 Chisti said she became a Congress worker at the age of 25 years and four years later got responsibilities with Seva Dal's Churu unit. "From 1990 to 1999, I worked in Youth Congress with leaders like Raghu Sharma, Ashq Ali Tak and Raghuvir Meena," Chisti said, adding that she served as PCC secretary from 1999 to 2014.
 
 "Women here are active in politics at panchayat and municipal levels but they are still hesitant in participating actively at the state level. My endeavour would be to encourage them towards greater participation and also to inspire the youngsters. When we motivate and bring in good people, the party gets strengthened. I will bring around that change; I will not remain a showpiece," Chisti said, explaining her plans for Rajasthan Mahila Congress.
 
