VARANASI:   may get a facelift. Minister of state for law and justice, information, sports and youth welfare, Neelkanth Tiwari is keen to revive the hospital and develop it into a multi-specialty urban primary health centre. 

 Tiwari, who represents   constituency, directed the officials to take stock of the condition of the hospital nestled along Ganga in  . A team of officials, led by chief medical officer VB Singh, visited the hospital and inspected it.
 
 "We have prepared a report based on current status of the hospital that served people living in Pucca Mahal (old  ) and forwarded it to the state government. After its nod, renovation and restoration of the building will be done. The hospital would be equipped with modern facilities and indoor and out patient department (OPD) services would be started. Doctors and paramedical staff will also be arranged," the CMO said.
 
 A visit to the once-acclaimed hospital in east UP that was first to start NICU and spinal care units, reveals that it is in bad condition. Lack of power supply, non-functional elevator, unkempt beds and wards with cobwebs is what the hospital has. It was shut down in 2009-2010. Only OPD services are offered here and witnesses less than a dozen patients daily.
 
 Founded by Murari Lal Mehta, foundation stone of the 80-bed hospital was laid by the then governor Kanhaiyalal Maniklal Munshi in 1954 while the inauguration was done by former President S Radhakrishnan in 1964. Prior to this, the hospital was run as a maternity ward in the vicinity of Ram Ghat as Matri Sewa Sadan from 1946. The hospital had all major departments like general surgery, orthopaedics, gynaecology, medicine, ICU and others.
 
 The addition of east UP's first NICU in 1992-93 and spinal care unit in 1997 added to the popularity of this hospital, which caters to patients from east UP, Bihar and adjoining areas. The hospital was at its peak from 1999 to 2003, witnessing between 250 and 300 per day. A large number of patients referred from   (BHU) were also treated at this hospital. Former PMs Indira Gandhi and Morarji Desai visited the hospital.
 
 The hospital downfall began with closure of spinal care unit in 2003. To cope up with cash crunch, the then trustee Shankar Lal Mehta decided to transform their paternal home Sang Ved Vidyalaya (that boasted of collection of over 30,000 manuscripts) into a research centre. But the decision wasn't welcomed by locals who staged demonstrations. While indoor services closed in December 2009, OPD services are continuing till date.
 
 
