HYDERABAD: Central information commissioner Prof Madhabhushanam Sridhar Acharyulu, who has been ruffling the feathers of politicians with his orders, has said that he is only doing his duty by implementing the provisions of Right to Information ( ). 

 Acharyulu had been in the news recently for passing an order allowing RTI applicant Neeraj to check the 1978 records of Delhi University to verify the claim of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that he got his degree from the university that year. When the University had refused to entertain his RTI petition, the applicant took it up further with higher level. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and other political parties had questioned the veracity of the claim of Modi that he had a degree.
 
 Sridhar Acharyulu also gave an order a few days ago, directing the   (CBSE) to allow examination of the Class X and Class X11 records of textiles minister Smriti Irani. When an RTI applicant had sought the information, it was refused by the CBSE earlier.
 
 "It does not matter whether it is Narendra Modi or Smriti Irani. We are not talking about individuals here. What one has to understand is that official records are to be in public domain and should be accessible. That is the whole meaning of RTI," Sridhar Acharyulu told TOI when contacted. "All orders are based on the law which provides for transparency," he said. An official order in the   on January 10, which removed the HRD ministry from under the purview of Sridhar Acharyulu raised eyebrows. But the information commissioner does not want to attach too much significance to that. "It is an administrative matter. I have been given several other subjects," he said. Sridhar Acharyulu is one of the 10 information commissioners in the Central Information Commission. It is headed by chief information commissioner Radha Krishna Mathur. 
 
 In an RTI appeal by Hemant Dhage of Ahmednagar, the information commissioner passed an order on December 29, 2016 that ministers in the union government and state government are bound to supply information to people who approach them. He recommended that the government at the centre and states appoint to each minister a public information officer and also first appellate authorities. However, the order has been challenged in the Bombay HC.
 
 Acharyulu, who belongs to Warangal was a journalist for several years. He became a professor in NALSAR before his appointment as CIC on November 22, 2013. 
 
 
