MUMBAI: In the life cycle of a product, at times it gains so much popularity that the brand name becomes generic. In the past,   was synonymous with life insurance,   meant photocopying and people asked for Bisleri when they meant mineral water. The mutual fund industry is witnessing a similar trend —  , the acronym for  , is often being identified, even by well-off people, as an asset class rather than being just a route to invest in an assets like equity, debt or gold.

 “A few weeks ago in an international flight, a CEO of a manufacturing company told me he doesn’t invest in mutual funds. His banker has advised him to put money in SIPs and he’s happy doing that,” a top official at a mutual fund house told TOI. And this is not a rare case. MF distributors in the field say that they often hear people say, 
  (I want to invest in stocks, in SIPs, in mutual funds and I also want to buy gold).” 
 
 This journey of SIP from being a totally alien facilitator to a hugely popular investment route has taken about two decades. Latest data show in June 2017 alone 1.5 crore investors brought in nearly Rs 4,900 crore into the MF industry’s fold. In comparison,   have put in Rs 3,600 crore. During these years, from regulators to banks, fund houses to distributors and investors — all have played important roles, fund veterans said. 
 
 SIP was introduced in 1996, a couple of years after foreign players were allowed into India’s MF sector. At that time, closed-ended funds were the most popular MF products in which investors came in only during bull rallies. “That was the time when we were searching for some product that could be sold in all markets, and which could also take care of excessive market volatility,” said Suraj Kaeley, group president (sales & marketing),  . “Then we borrowed the concept from the US’ dollar-cost averaging method and 401K pension investments, and introduced SIP to Indian investors,” Kaeley, considered to be the man who pioneered the concept in India, said.
 
 One of the main reasons for the spread of SIP culture is that the timing of investment through this route matches perfectly with the earning cycles of salaried people. “Salaried people earn on a monthly basis and through the SIP route they invest on a monthly basis. Here, investors’ inflow of funds and outflow for investment is in perfect rhythm,” explained the head of SIPs at a domestic fund house.
 
 Over the years, markets also helped in popularising SIPs. “Soon after the 2008 market crash, a lot of investors stopped their SIPs. But as the market rallied to a new peak in less than three years, they realised their mistake. People remember that lesson and now most investors don’t stop SIP due to market volatility,” the fund house official said. In the last five years, the relatively low returns from gold, real estate and declining rate of interest on FDs also prompted investors to invest in the stock market through the SIP route.
 
 According to industry veterans, it was Franklin Templeton MF that launched SIP in India. It was subsequently picked up by other private fund houses like Birla MF and Kothari Pioneer MF, with more joining in. That was the phase when investors signed 12, 24, 36...post-dated cheques in one go to start an SIP mandate. 
 
 The second phase of SIP’s growth began in 2003, when banks — helped by technology innovations in the financial sector — started offering direct debit facility to their customers. A few years later, along with RTGS and NEFT facilities, came SMS and email alerts for investors to track their investments. This made the process of investing through SIP much smoother and safer. 
 
 The third phase of growth started in late 2012, when   allowed all fund houses to spend 2 paise on investor education from every Rs 100 invested with them. “Most of that extra money was spent on educating investors about the virtues of long-term investment through the SIP route,” Kaeley said.
 
 As fund houses picked up pace to educate investors, after some nudging as well as tough words from Sebi, the results were visible in numbers. By the start of fiscal 2015, there were nearly 68 lakh SIPs, which contributed about Rs 1,950 crore to the fund industry. In two years, the corresponding numbers had more than doubled: In March 2017, from about 1.35 crore SIPs, the industry got an inflow of about Rs 4,300 crore. And by June, the total SIP numbers were close to 1.5 crore, which together infused about Rs 4,900 crore into the market. About 85% of this inflow is mandated to go into equity funds, A Balasubramanian, chairman, AMFI, the mutual fund industry trade body, said.
 
 Success stories of investors from across India, who achieved their life’s financial goals by investing through the SIP route, also helped in popularising this concept. Hari Kamat, a financial adviser from Goa, helped a close friend to invest through the SIP route for 11 years. The corpus was used to meet the wedding expenses of the investor’s daughter. Over the years, Ashok Bhatia, a financial adviser from Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan, has helped several defence personnel to fulfil their life goals by investing through this route. 
 
 Such stories of financial planners and advisers, who helped their clients to fulfil their life dreams by investing through the SIP route, also had a strong demonstration effect on people around them, industry veterans said.
 
 
