When city-based stylist Shackya Nanda received a call for his passport verification, he had to refer to his partner Mickey Zaveri, with whom he’s been living in for the past eight years, as his business partner. Even for festivals at the society where the couple resides, invites come separately always — it’s never a ‘plus one’ for them! 

 From everyday examples, it is evident that the social stigma that often comes with being a queer individual far outweighs the process of becoming comfortable in one’s skin. In excerpts from a forthcoming biography, filmmaker   openly addressed various things pertaining to his sexual orientation, however stopping short of uttering those three words that would make headlines. But if one were to really read between the lines, the filmmaker highlighted larger struggles in his journey to where he stands today: ‘For me to address it (thoughts about sex and being asexual, etc), talk about it, discuss it, was a big no-no. I brushed it under the carpet... At that time, I was also very large and was grappling with my weight issues. I felt physically undesirable’, Karan is quoted as saying. 
 
 The question then isn’t about ‘whether to come out or not’. There’s a greater need for acceptance in close social circles, and support systems that can address such issues that plague youngsters coming to terms with their sexual orientation. And the city is seeing more such initiatives that point to better supporting the   community.
 
 
 
 We are legal criminals of the society. I came out six years ago to my parents, who took time to accept it. But now, they respect my sexual orientation. Had I not been supported by them, I wouldn’t have been able to survive. In fact, my mother hangs out with Mickey, my partner, more than me now. There were a lot of hiccups initially as my parents are from Solapur, a relatively small place which isn’t as open as the metropolitan cities. However, I later realised that parents are understanding as long as we are happy. Our neighbours are cordial when we meet, but we know that our sexual orientation is a hot topic of their conversations otherwise. They live in an illusionary world where same-sex lovers don’t exist. So they don’t acknowledge us when we are seen together. This is the reason why I haven’t come out openly. I don’t want to lie about my sexuality but at the same time, I don’t want to get into trouble either.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 To be homosexual in India is in itself a crime. Imagine being criminalised on the basis of who you’re in love with! This is a horrible violation of a person’s rights. How can the government decide who is the appropriate person to fall in love with? Support and solidarity from friends, family and strangers is crucial to help one stand up and speak out for the right to love; or the right to live life itself. And anyway, if we don’t show solidarity and support to one another, where are we going to stand? How do we guarantee any rights for anybody unless we speak out against existing wrongs? Frankly, I don’t care who sleeps with whom as long as the relationship has mutual respect. Why isn’t the issue of marital rape in focus? Isn’t that what the government should be bothered about?
 
 
 
 A strong support system creates a congenial atmosphere. Sadly, it’s disappearing in today’s world. Sexual preferences are very sensitive and nobody has the right to tell anybody who they should love. It is a very personal choice and nobody should justify it either. More than having a support system for sexuality, one should protect human rights. Why should a tag like   or   be given to relationships as pure as love? This is at the root of constantly dividing us.
 
 
 
 For a community grappling with social and political existence in our country, it’s always an advantage to have an influential public figure take the lead in its struggle to survive equally. But, I also respect a person’s choice of lifestyle, no matter how much it lacks in brevity. In that case, I shall look forward to having another role model and honestly, there are many distinguished, brave, intelligent and independent individuals who are doing a fabulous job of taking the rainbow flag forward and showing others the path to follow. We should just let Karan Johar be entitled to his opinion.
 
 
 
 Coming out is difficult, but one has to do it some day or the other. I came out to my parents 20 years ago and am glad I did it because I could then channel my energy towards doing what I loved and not fret over conforming to societal norms. As you grow older, it becomes harder to speak out. My parents were very supportive and I think a support system matters a lot. Finding someone to talk to and share things with is important. Yes, dealing with your dear ones, the law and the government have made things a little difficult these days, but there’s no middle way here. You can either live in fear your entire life or come out and deal with things head-on.
 
 
 
 
 
 IT professional Souvik Ghosh, who led the city’s LGBTQ Pride   last year, believes that social media has greatly contributed to raising awareness among the community and putting people in touch. He says, “Numerous meet-ups have been held in the city, giving rise to meaningful discussions. The community has also set up initiatives, like the Queer and Allies Art Festival Pune, and social media has played a key role.” He believes that the medium’s ease of use and the fact that people are more available on the online space to hear one out makes it easy for individuals to connect. “While support systems are actively working online, there’s no denying the fact that offline, face-to-face meet-ups are preferred,” Souvik adds.
 
 
 
 When queer groups and events are open to straight allies, it’s natural to be concerned about safety. Nineteen-year-old student, Sudhanshu Latad, a core member of Yaariyan, the youth wing of Mumbai’s The Humsafar Trust that advocates rights and health of LGBT people in India, says, “Before I became part of the group, straight allies were allowed by invitation to join in the initiatives. But soon, concerns about the safety of the space arose. One wouldn’t be comfortable with someone known becoming part of the group for the fear of a non-consensual outing. Our prime focus is to create a safe and comfortable space for sharing.” The group allows straight allies to join in now, but only through strict reference. It inducts allies who are willing to help the 
 community.
 However, Souvik says that there’s little harm in keeping activities like treks and reading clubs open to people from the mainstream as well. “Sexuality cannot bar social connections, so it’s great if queer and mainstream individuals take part in treks or readings together. Bonding is the main focus in such 
 activities and not addressing queer issues. Queer-specific groups arise from the need to create a safe environment for dialogue and sharing. I don’t think they are meant to keep the queer and mainstream communities apart,” Souvik adds.
 
 
 
 
