MANSA/PHILLAUR: Perched on his chair,  , with his amputated arms and left leg, effortlessly belts out songs lauding Dalits’ contribution to the society as well those on patriotism at a campaign for AAP at Phillaur in Punjab’s Jalandhar district.

 Bant was attacked by upper caste persons in his native  , dominated by scheduled caste (SC) people, in 2006 after he approached cops against them for raping his daughter in 2002.
 
 Political parties are now waking up to the fact that Punjab’s 33% population is Dalit and they have realized that in a tight battle they will have to tap the Dalit votes, particularly in Doaba region that comprises Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr and Kapurthala.
 
 The Doaba region has already produced more than three dozen singers who have taken to the profession in response to the burgeoning discrimination faced by Dalits and released their own albums. Albums by them like ‘Jai Bhim’ to ‘Danger Chamars’ and ‘Ambedkar Folks’ are a big hit on Facebook and YouTube.
 
 A fortnight ago, Bant was inducted by the AAP as their star campaigner and has three dozen addresses lined up for him till February 4, when the state goes to polls.
 
 “I have been a leftist. But this time battle is for the uplift of Dalits. They need money for daughters’ marriages and jobs. We can’t be left at the mercy of upper caste men and till their land for a paltry amount. Let this election be a watershed in terms of Dalit contribution,” the 50-year-old tells TOI.
 
 “Asi zar zulm di nai charni....sad da haare. Oh rasta das gaye, saade saano veer (We will not leave the battle midway, we have been given the same body and soul by the God, we will be bravehearts),” Bant, who comes from Mazhabi Sikh sect of Dalits, says.
 
 Not too far from him, Sufi Singer Hansraj Hans is chalking out plans to address rallies for BJP at his Jalandhar home.
 
 Fresh from victory for the saffron party in Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls, Hans, who switched his party first from Akali Dal to the Congress and then to BJP, says, “When I recently met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he recalled how I had generated funds for him during Gujarat earthquake by performing in the US and Canada. Though I will not sing for any caste, people know my identity.”
 
 Eighteen-year-old teen sensation  , who goes by her moniker Ginni Mahi, is delighted polls are giving her community a push. “I can never forget when a girl asked my caste during my second day of college due to my appearance. That’s when I decided to tell her that Chamars are dangerous and hence came the song. I am glad Dalit singers are getting their prominence and hope this will stay after the polls,” Mahi, whose ‘Danger Chamars’ album is popular, tells TOI.
 
 While AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal has already promised to have a Dalit deputy chief minister, a similar demand was raised by Congress Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Dullo. The BJP had last year made Hoshiarpur MP and Union minister Vijay Sampla, a Ravidasia Dalit, as their Punjab chief before polls.
 
