LUCKNOW: One of the several challenges that the outgoing   government faced in the last three years of its tenure was a  . Soon after   took oath as the UP   on July 22, 2014, he declared at a press conference his doors would be open to all. It was perhaps for the first time Indian that a governor had done so. 

 In the eventful journey that ensued, the unorthodox governor not only expressed his views on everything, including the law and order of the state and the performance of the government, but also questioned a number of decisions taken by it. 
 
 With a mobile phone in his hand and a skeletal staff at Raj Bhawan, Naik drew strength from his experience of more than 60 years in active politics, including that as a Union minister. He got his first opportunity to strike at the SP government when the latter recommended nine names for the legislative council from literary and art categories. Naik rejected the names, saying the CM should not expect him to “make a compromise with the Constitution which does not allow him to approve such names.”
 
 The file shuttled between Raj Bhawan and Pancham Tal—the CM office—11 times but Naik did not budge. The government was forced to change the names, a rare instance in UP’s political history. 
 
 The appointment of the lokayukta was another contentious issue. He repeatedly asked the government why it was shying away from appointing a new Lokayukta. When the government named a tainted retired judge for the post, Naik forced the government to come out with a fresh panel and finally the Supreme Court had to intervene. Again, the government had to abandon its nominee.
 
 Naik also repeatedly reminded the government about booking nine ministers and a dozen officers named in Lokayukta reports for corruption. However, the only harm that came was on the SP government’s image. 
 
 After the Jawaharbagh massacre in Mathura, Naik surprised many by asking the CM to bring out a White Paper on large-scale encroachments and grabbing of government land. By not responding, the state government strengthened the impression of being a government that let criminals have a free hand. 
 
 Naik did not stop. From pointing out how audit of developmental authorities by CAG was not allowed by the government to asking the CM why alleged rapist Gayatri Prajapati was still in his cabinet, Naik’s message that UP was turning into a lawless state under the Samajwadi Party was loud and clear.
 
 BSP and BJP, too, were on the receiving end when Naik disqualified an MLA of each party for grabbing government contracts. No MLA has ever been disqualified on this ground.
 
 
