Gurgaon: Reluctance of more than half the families living along   in   to let go of their homes and lack of any more time to delay the project has forced Huda to downsize its   plan from the initial 30m (10m each on either side to add to the existing 10m wide channel) to just 10m from one side.

 The urban development body, which is racing against time to complete the drain widening work before monsoon, has had to change its plan in the eleventh hour as only 30 of the 80 families it was targeting to give up their plots have agreed to its offer.
 
 Huda had planned to acquire around 5 acres of land by shifting around 80 houses in Khandsa to widen Badshapur drain passing through the village. Till now, only 30 families have agreed to give up their homes in exchange for alternative plots and compensation for demolition.
 
 Of the 80 houses, 35 are on one side of the drain, while the remaining 45 lie on the other side. “Thirty of these 35 families have agreed to our offer. We will hold a meeting with the remaining five families in the next two days to convince them to give up their homes as well,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav, adding that once that is done, the authority would be able to begin widening work on at least one side of the drain. 
 
 The drain widening work is expected to start in a week.
 
 Due to unavailability of sufficient time, Huda is now focusing only on shifting houses from one side of the drain. “We will try to rehabilitate the oustees from the other side of the drain at a later stage,” said Yadav.
 
 He further said that the current priority was to start work on widening the drain as early as possible. Increasing the width of the drain by even 10m will raise its carrying capacity to some extent.
 
 As per the special land exchange scheme approved by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in the first week of March, villagers whose houses need to be removed for the widening work, are to get free land of equivalent size in Sector 37C, as well as compensation for the structures demolished.
 
 “We have agreed to exchange our land with Huda for drain widening,” said Sanjay Singh, a resident of Khandsa, adding that it was better to live in a better locality instead of living along the drain. 
 
 The 39.96km long and 30m wide Badshapur drain, which starts from Ghata and empties into Najafgarh drain, narrows down to 10m at Khandsa, reducing its carrying capacity from 1,200 cusec to just 500 cusec. In certain areas in Khandsa, the channel becomes as narrow as 4-5m, preventing water, which flows into the drain from all parts of the city, to pass through at expected pace, causing waterlogging. 
 
 During monsoon, more than 1,000 cusec of water flows into the drain in this area at full pressure, causing waterlogging at Hero Honda Chowk (choke point of last year’s 20-hour long jam), NH-8 service roads, sectors 33-34 and nearby areas.
 
 Following last July’s ‘Gurujam’ fiasco, the state government had decided to resolve the problem for good by expanding the drain at Khandsa. “Last year’s incident made a serious dent in Gurgaon’s image. Hence, the government is keen on completing the project before this monsoon,” said a senior government official, adding that widening of the drain was the only way to deal with waterlogging at Hero Honda Chowk.
 
 
