THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state is celebrating yet another   on Sunday, but the plight of unwed mothers, mostly teens, in the state remains unchanged despite launching several schemes. Officially, over 2,000 unwed mothers are beneficiaries of the Snehasparsham scheme of   ( ) that provides a monthly grant of Rs 1,000 for each. Though initially, the scheme was for tribal unwed mothers, later it was extended to all unwed mothers in the state. However, even that token grant fails to reach them. 

 As many as 40 abused teens-turned mothers were accommodated at Nirbhaya shelter homes in the past two years. Of them, 80% had surrendered their infants for adoption while the remaining, mostly tribal girls, had sought to keep their newborn with them. Some of the tribal unwed mothers had gone back to their homes, while four teen mothers who chose to have their children with them are struggling to make both ends meet. Among them two are working as cooks and helpers while two others are yet to complete their studies. 
 
 "I am keen to complete my studies and then hoping to get a job, so that I can take care of myself and my child," said a teen unwed mother. 
 
 "These teens are mostly from backward classes and tribal community. They find it hard to manage themselves and their infants. With a token Rs 1,000 per month, is it possible to have proper food and health care for a mother and her child and even that fails to reach all the deserving," said a social activist who preferred to maintain anonymity. 
 
 Meanwhile, social justice department (SJD) officials indicate that many schemes are on the anvil to support the unwed mothers. "A self-employment scheme for unwed mothers has been proposed with about three components - training, investment support and market linkage for their products. The pilot phase of the scheme is proposed in Kozhikode and Wayanad. The unwed mothers will be trained in tailoring, catering or skills that they find interesting and then it is planned to offer an initial support of Rs 35,000," SJD director   said. 
 
  director   said that they had submitted a proposal for a housing scheme for the teen unwed mothers at Nirbhaya shelter homes last year and expects that the government would consider it. 
 
