Nagpur: The big ticket National Entrance cum Eligibility Test ( ) will be held on Sunday with approximately 22,000 students appearing in Nagpur.   advise students to not go overboard in preparations on the eve of this exam and also to approach the paper in a systematic way on Sunday. 

 Sameer Pale, academician said, “Students who actually work hard for two years need to relax on the last three days as there is no shortcut to success and it helps keep unnecessary confusion at bay.” He added, “While solving the paper students shouldn’t jump from one subject to other and solve whatever they find easy first.” Another academician Chittaranjan Singh Chauhan said, “To keep your mind stable on the exam day talk as less as possible, it conserves energy and maintains peace of mind.” According to him, lengthy questions in the paper are there to test the smartness of a student; you should always keep such questions for the last.
 
 Academician Srinivas Bisala emphasized on strategizing to solve the paper. He said, “While solving, the student should divide the paper into three phases including all the easy questions of bio and chemistry in the first phase, easy physics and a tad bit difficult bio in the second phase and the difficult chemistry and physics in the last phase.” The reason behind this is when you accurately solve a good number of questions it boosts your confidence. He further said that breathing exercises before the exam are a must since students have at least 1 hour before the exam sitting idle which increases anxiety and nervousness. Vaishali Male, another academician said “Students should stick to revising formulas and numerical from NCERT textbook. Graphical representation and conceptual questions in physics require a thorough  .”
 
 Nikhil Sangtani a student said “I think I’m pretty much prepared so as a last minute thing I’m only solving the questions from the past test series that I attended. I think the best way is to rectify the silly mistakes that I did earlier in order to not repeat them again.” Another student Anshul Dwivedi said “Biology sounds like devoting my time reading Physics and Chemistry NCERT as much as possible.” Nidhi Jaiswal, another student said “I’m a bit tensed for physics as I always found it difficult than other subjects but I’m giving it my 100% solving and reading formulas. I’ll stick to the notes I made in these two years for my last day revision.” Another student Sakshi Agrawal saidbiology counts to 50% of the paper I’m focusing majorly on that and NCERT textbooks for all the 3 subjects. Obviously there’s a lot of pressure but I’m keeping my calm as much as possible and resorting to music whenever I’m stressed. 
 
 
