DARJEELING/KOLKATA: Chief minister   on Monday used closed tea gardens in Darjeeling and   to give the strongest push yet for peace and normality in the Hills, something that evidence suggests more and more residents are yearning for after 96 days of total shutdown.

 The CM asked all 87 tea gardens to throw open their estates and pay workers the 2016-17 bonus, warning them of "action" if they failed to resume work. Tea gardens have been at the forefront of the efforts to get life back to normal in the Hills, with some of them opening despite threats, then being forced to shut down by pro-Gorkhaland agitators and then trying to reopen again with police security.
 
 Even as Banerjee was trying to breach the shutdown through the tea-garden route, the first poster — claiming to be speaking on behalf of the "janta" — appeared at  , in the heart of Darjeeling town, against leaders enforcing the shutdown. Around 20% of shops partially lifted their shutters in Kurseong town and sold their wares for the first time in 96 days. "Traders like us have suffered the most as we could not sell anything. The shop shutter and lock have become rusty. But I have decided to open my shop now," said an owner of a shoe shop in Kurseong.
 
 The CM’s exhortation to tea garden owners came at Nabanna. "Our chief secretary has told garden owners to pay the pending bonus and open gardens, or else, we will have to take action. I don’t want to take any serious action (against owners) as I believe they can be instrumental in solving the problem at the next tripartite meeting. We reached this decision following a meeting with all stakeholders, owners, associations, staff unions and political parties," the CM said as she was flanked by two rebel GJM leaders,   and Anit Thapa. Thapa wields some influence on tea labour unions in and around Kurseong.
 
 The rise in the CM’s anti-shutdown pitch followed a stock-taking of the ground situation on Monday and also inputs that state chief secretary   gathered from representatives of tea gardens and the rebel GJM leaders, who managed to get the Springside division of the Goodricke group-owned Castleton Tea Estate reopened in Kurseong on Monday. "Around 70 workers out of 212 reported for work at the Springside division," Indian Tea Association (ITA) secretary Mohan Chhetri said.
 
 Some other tea gardens, like Rohini, Longview, Marinbari and Simulbari, too, have resumed work. Government employees at Kurseong joined work on Monday and nationalised banks reopened.
 
 The   government also took note of the Kurseong schools that resumed classes on Monday."From Monday, we have decided to start normal classes for every standard," St Anthony’s Boarding School principal Chetan Tiwari said.
 
 Banerjee agreed to several demands of Hills students. "I have told the education minister to take care of the online and offline school and university admission process," the CM said. She also indicated that she was willing to lift the internet ban if things improved; she first asked chief secretary De whether the time was right to lift the ban and then said her government would decide soon after assessing the situation.
 
