PATNA: Around 500 villagers torched   in  , around 80km from Patna, on Sunday in protest against a man’s death in police custody. They burned nine police jeeps and equal number of two-wheelers besides seven seized vehicles parked on the police station premises. Fourteen policemen were injured and several files and records were destroyed in the mob attack. The condition of one constable was stated to be serious.

 Barhara circle officer Sumit Kumar, who reached the spot after getting information about the villagers’ protest, had a narrow escape as a bullet fired by an unidentified miscreant in the mob hit the windscreen of his vehicle. 
 
 Sources said one Ram   (45) alias Chenna Prasad of   was arrested on Saturday night and died within hours in custody. “Prasad was arrested in an intoxicated state by ASI Arvind Kumar. Prasad’s daughter Neetu Kumari had lodged an FIR and accused him of sexually harassing her whenever her mother was away. After being in the lock-up for sometime, Prasad started banging his head against against the iron bars in the lock-up,” a police official said.
 
 He said Prasad was taken out of the lock-up to avoid any injury. “Soon after he was taken out, he attempted to escape and went to the terrace of the three-storey police station building. When a couple of police personnel chased him, Prasad jumped off the terrace and died,” he said.
 
 Police sources said Prasad was rushed to hospital where he was declared dead. After postmortem, the body was handed over to the victim’s family on Sunday morning.
 
 DIG (Shahabad range)   said Barhara SHO Sudeh Kumar and ASI Pandey had been suspended for dereliction of duty. “The SHO failed to assess the situation and inform his seniors for reinforcement when the mob blocked the road in front of the police station to protest Prasad’s death,” the DIG said, adding that seven persons were arrested in connection with the violence.
 
 This is the second incident of torching a police station by a mob in Bihar within a month. On February 11, tribal people had torched Pothia police station in Kishanganj district following a rumour about the death of their community man in police custody. Three patrolling jeeps and several other vehicles parked on the police station premises were also torched.
 
