Coimbatore: The state government is running efficiently under the leadership of chief minister K Palaniswami who is very accessible and takes decisions immediately without any delay, said municipal administration minister S P Velumani. 

 “Whenever any issues are brought to chief minister’s notice, he immediately takes them up and instructs officials to resolve them,” said Velumani while addressing a stakeholder’s meeting on Tamil Nadu Business Facilitation Act and Rules 2017 in the city on Friday. 
 
 “We are aware of various problems going on around us but we are here to work for you and will not go away anywhere. We will support industries in every way possible way,” he added, stating that AIADMK was the first to propose the single window system for industrial clearances in 1992. 
 
 He also promised to increase international connectivity in a few months’ time. “We have already started negotiating with the land owners and have agreed to increase the guideline value. We will resolve this issue soon and the airport expansion work that had hit road block will take-off soon,” he said.
 
 Minister of state for commercial taxes and registration department M C Sampath and minister of rural industries P Benjamin took part in the event along with several IAS officials. 
 
 Sampath said that Tamil Nadu was one of the very few industrialized states in the country and expansion of airport was one of the major factors that could boost its economy. “We need to go to Bengaluru or Cochin to export our products. We are collaborating with the central government and will get international connectivity for Coimbatore soon,” he said. 
 
 He added that this act on Tamil Nadu business facilitation has included 15 departments that will help people to get clearances easily. 
 
 “One need not run from one department to the other. Specified time period for clearances are mentioned and if the clearances do not come on time, it will be deemed cleared automatically,” said Sampath. 
 
 He added that the global investor’s meet will be held in 2018 and they expected nearly 3 lakh crore investments than year. “Last year, nearly 72,000 crore investments were realized after the meeting,” he added. 
 
 All the industrialists pressed for more interaction and participation in the meetings held in Chennai. “Only if we are members of the meetings held in Chennai and our grievances are represented on a regular basis, industries can strive better,” said Vanitha Mohan, president of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries. 
 
 The Confederation of Indian Industries, Coimbatore zonal council chairman, S Narayanan said that there was time till September 24 to give suggestions and request for changes in the act. 
 
 “This meeting was mainly held to get inputs and share concerns of the industries regarding the bill and other issues,” said Narayanan. 
 
 
