Here's a look at the major talking points from the second day's play of the second Test between India and Australia in Bangalore.

 
 
 
 India's woes with DRS continued and it was quite evident on day two that Virat Kohli has little clue or lacks support from his close-in fielders when it comes to reviews. India wasted three of their reviews and if they had opted for one they might had   - the eventual half-centurion - out cheaply; but that did not happen. Interestingly all three reviews were off Ravichandran Ashwin's bowling. The first one came in the opening session when   went for a pull off a delivery that was not quite short. The flatter delivery pitched on off, hit Smith on middle and leg and the ball tracking showed the ball hitting the stumps but only marginally as Smith survived on the basis of the on-field umpire's call.
 
 The second was an evident inside edge off Shaun Marsh that was reviewed for a leg before decision and the third on Matthew Wade, when the wicketkeeper batsman seemed to have pad-gloved one that spun off the rough, but the review rightly showed there was no connect with the glove. India lost both their reviews within 13 overs after the reset. On the other hand, Marsh got his review right when he was trapped in front by Umesh Yadav. Coming over the wicket, the ball had pitched outside the line and the rest of the ball tracking evidence was thrown out of the equation.
 
 
 
 
 At the start Shaun Marsh was in all sorts of trouble. Umesh Yadav put in a hostile spell of fast bowling and assisted by the cracks on the pitch shot a couple past Marsh. In the 57th over, Umesh got one to hit the crack and the ball moved away taking a faint edge off Marsh's glove, keeper Wriddhiman Saha appealed to no avail and India chose not to review the decision. Marsh went in to tea unbeaten on 38 after that reprieve. In the third session, Shaun Marsh continued to live a charmed life as   again trapped him in front only to overstep and the Australian made full use of the reprieves to compile his sixth Test fifty. More importantly, he combined with Wade for a crucial 57-run stand for the sixth wicket in the final session when it seemed India could take the advantage after reducing Australia to 163 for five at tea. During the pivotal partnership Australia took the lead, but soon after Marsh was caught at short midwicket off Umesh for 66.
 
 
 
 
 For most part of the first session, India bowlers produced the chances; Ashwin exploited the rough, Ishant and Umesh Yadav got a few to jab back in occasionally from the many cracks on the pitch, yet Steve Smith and Renshaw managed to survive 20.1 overs, albeit scoring mere 30 runs in them. Renshaw starting the day on 15 off 47 balls soaked in the pressure well. When he was beaten repeatedly by Ishant he was not flustered, and when Ishant - out of frustration or as per the plan - tried to get under Renshaw's skin he kept his calm. All the three boundaries he got were off edges and he never quite looked at ease defending against Ashwin, but the main thing was to battle it out in the middle and he did exactly that going in to the first break unbeaten on 40 off 144 balls. Smith played his part well with an unorthodox approach to counter the demons of the pitch as well as the disciplined show from the Indian bowlers. His 52-ball vigil kept India at bay and even though he too struggled to get to terms with the behaviour of the pitch, Smith hung around. To put it simply, Smith managed to put bat to ball any which way he could. Ishant bowled a bit short to ruffle the Australian skipper and then engaged in some banter - predominantly with weird facial expression rather than words - but Smith overcame all that, and a couple of shooters as well, until three overs before lunch when Jadeja with his stock delivery managed to get an edge off Smith's pad which was taken well by wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha running to his left.
 
 
  
 
 It was the 26th over of the Australian innings and Smith was defying Indian bowlers. With   and Smith successfully staving off every attack, Ishant decided to unsettle Smith by making weird faces to the Australian captain. Not the one to back down, Smith responded with a funny expression of his own. India captain Virat Kohli couldn't stop smiling on seeing what was happening in the middle and was later seen having a chit chat with his Australian counterpart Smith.
 
