GONDA:   raised the issue of foreign infiltration from across the border when he said at rally in   on Friday that the Kanpur train tragedy in which 150 people were killed, was a "conspiracy" and the perpetrators carried it out "sitting across the border" in Nepal.

 “A rail accident happened in Kanpur, few people have been caught. Police found out that it was a conspiracy from across the border. If such people, who will help (conspirators), get elected from here, will Gonda be safe? Will nation be safe then,” asked PM Modi.
 
 "The   in which hundreds of people were killed was a conspiracy and conspirators carried it out sitting across the border ... Gonda is adjoining Nepal," he said. "If the cross-border foes want to carry out their work, is it not necessary that more vigil is maintained in Gonda?" PM Modi asked the people as he exhorted them to vote for the BJP.
 
 "Gonda needs to elect only those who are full of patriotism, only then we can do anything good for Gonda," he said.
 
 "There should not be any mistake in this election ... be it the SP or the BSP, not a single seat should go to them ... 100 per cent seats should be won by the BJP," the Prime Minister said.
 
 Nepalese national Shamshul Hoda, an alleged   agent and the prime suspect in the Kanpur train tragedy, was arrested on February 7 in Kathmandu after being deported from Dubai, Nepal police had said. 
 
 Expressing confidence about BJP’s victory, Modi said “we will celebrate kesariya (saffron) Holi in the state”. He also said loan waiver of farmers would be BJP’s first priority upon coming to power in the state. Claiming that the Samajwadi Party-led Akhilesh Yadav government has done “injustice” to farmers, he questioned why has the state government capped insurance for farmers at 14 per cent. 
 
 Invoking Lord Shiva, he said with their third eye, people can see what is good for them and what is not. “The poorest of the poor can detect truth. Since I took stern steps against corruption and banned notes, big forces are out to mislead the country,” he said. Talking about the recent elections, PM Modi said BJP has fared well in all elections held in the past three months after demonetisation, whether it were the civic polls in Odisha, Maharashtra or Chandigarh or the panchayat polls.
 
 
