JAIPUR: Rajasthan may have stood third in the number of students who qualified for  . However, the   (RBSE) came fifth among all boards, including CBSE, in sending the most number of students for the examination.

 CBSE took the first position, followed by the boards of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Rajasthan. From the state, 20,438 students qualified for JEE Advanced, including 13,560 candidates from the   and 6,878 from RBSE.
 
 Interestingly, the top three state boards have a higher number of students from the state board appearing for the exam, while the reverse is true in Rajasthan, with CBSE schools claiming the lion’s share.
 
 “Still, Rajasthan is far ahead than several ‘developed’ states. The share of state students are fast increasing and, in the coming years, the RBSE will claim the top slot,” said Meghna Choudhary, secretary, RBSE.
 
 The number of students appearing for the RBSE Class XII is also fast increasing. Officials are certain that this would see a rise in the number of success stories in the coming years.
 
 Elaborating the reasons on why CBSE schools have a higher share in Rajasthan, Damodar Goyal, president, Society for Private Unaided Schools in Rajasthan, said, “The quality of CBSE schools in the state is far better than many others. Many schools give special attention to students appearing for competitive exams.”
 
 Backward classes score for RBSE: Jaipur: Nearly half the students who appeared for JEE Advanced from the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) were from the other backward class (OBC) category, dispelling the myth that IIT admissions are meant only for elites.
 
 Figures put RBSE students who made the cut from the general category at 782, which is way below the numbers from social categories such as SCs and STs.
 
 Of the total 20,438 candidates who qualified for JEE Advanced, 13,560 candidates were from the CBSE board. Experts say that a majority of those selected from CBSE are from elite classes.
 
 “CBSE schools maintain minimum infrastructure and facilities which are affordable for urban upper middle-class families. This economic section is predominantly made up of elite classes,” said KB Kothari, senior educationist, explaining the reason for the lower number of general category students appearing for JEE from RBSE.
 
 Surprisingly, the share of SCs and STs is also increasing. This year, 1,388 and 1,711 students qualified for JEE Advanced from these categories. However, they generally belong to the RBSE board.
 
