MUMBAI: The statewide resident doctors' strike started petering out by Friday midnight, following an eventful day of negotiations between senior doctors and CM  , and the Bombay high court's intervention.

 “The doctors, on strike for five days, have agreed to join work. PG students of   in Pune, JJ in Byculla and KEM in Parel resumed at 12am,“ said Dr Yadh wardhan Kabra, president,   (MARD). “Everyone is joining. Medical services will normalise as Saturday progresses.“ KEM Hospital's dean Dr Avinash Supe said, “Our resident doctors have started signing the muster.“
 
 It was unclear till very late on Friday if the strike would be called off. For one, it had become evident during the week that MARD is a fractured organisation. Despite an ultimatum by the Bombay high court and tough talk by the chief minister, it wasn't quite clear till very late on Friday if the state-wide resident doctors' strike would end.
 
 MARD said in the evening that it had “failed to convince“ most colleagues to rejoin. Also, a majority of the 3,400 PG students on strike had not joined till very late despite chief minister Devendra Fadnavis appealing to them with folded hands to resume work. The CM's request and later an outburst were followed by the high court giving an ultimatum: resume work by 8am, Saturday , or risk punitive measures, including termination, by the state and civic bodies.
 
 A new set of doctors' representatives met medical education minister Girish Mahajan late on Friday and assured him they would consider calling off the strike after going through a signed copy of the minutes of the meeting. During the day , the   (IMA) called off its one-day protest after discussions with Fadnavis, where resident doctors were not allowed to be present.This angered the students, who thought their plight was lost in the bargain. “It was not the IMA 's strike to begin with. They are free to support and leave us,“ a resident doctor said.
 
 By Friday, services at all public medical colleges in the state had come to a standstill, with only emergency services being offered. 
 
