CHANDIGARH: The   refused on Wednesday to defer hearing on the contentious Satluj Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue beyond the Punjab polls and said it would not tolerate flouting of its decree directing Punjab to construct the canal.

 The SYL row over sharing of the Ravi-Beas waters has been going on for decades. While Haryana wants its share, as was decided when the state was carved out of Punjab along with Himachal Pradesh 50 years ago, successive Punjab governments have refused to share water.
 
 A bench of Justices P C Ghose and Amitava Roy was clear that impending elections could not stall the process in the apex court, that is adjudication of cases irrespective of their importance. The bench told the Punjab government, represented by senior advoca tes Ram Jethmalani and R S Suri, that it would not tolerate flouting of its orders. “The decree passed by the court for construction of the SYL canal must be given effect to, regardless of which political party comes to power,“ the bench said.
 
 The state goes to polls on February 4 and politicians, irrespective of party lines, have made a strong pitch for not permitting more water to be given to other states. The bench posted the matter for hearing on February 15.The court had repeatedly ruled and passed a decree in 2003 asking Punjab to construct its portion of SYL canal to ensure that Haryana got its share of Ravi-Beas waters from the  . Punjab assembly passed another law denotifying land acquired for construction of SYL canal and struction of SYL canal and started returning the land to original owners. This was noticed by the court during hearing of the presidential reference on the constitutional validity of the law relating to termination of water sharing agreements.
 
 SC had ordered status quo and appointed a receiver for the land acquired for SYL canal. On Wednesday, Union government through solicitor general Ranjit Kumar informed the bench that as long as the law allowing return of land stood, SYL canal couldn't be built. SC asked Haryana government to respond to this.Dealing with Haryana's contempt petition against Punjab, the bench said, “We will not allow decree of this court to be flouted in any manner. It is up to you (Punjab) how you give effect to our decree.“ Haryana through senior advocate Jagdip Dhankar, said once a constitution bench of the SC on November 10, 2016 quashed the 2004 Punjab law seeking to unilaterally terminate a water-sharing agreement of 1955 entered between the states, Punjab was bound to fulfil its commitment to share 3.5 MAF (million acre feet) of water of Ravi and Beas rivers with Haryana by constructing the SYL canal.“These issues need to be resolved between the two states with the Centre acting as a senior arbitrator. This is not a matter to be fought in court,“ Jethmalani said and urged the court to hear the matter in March as no policy decision could be taken by state authorities till polls were on. The bench refused to post the matter in March. “We are interested in the purpose of decree being implemented. We will give you three weeks to file your response. Let us not make our schedule contingent to elections,“ the bench said.
 
