VISAKHAPATNAM: Unwed or   are struggling to find a footing in society to bring up their children with respect. Most of these women were either cheated with promises of marriage or were victims of sexual assault and abandoned by their families.

 But there is no exclusive government scheme or home for such mothers. While some work as domestic helps to earn a living, some are undertaking vocational training imparted by NGOs.
 
 K Swarnakumari, president of NGO Mahila Action, said, “Based on information from urban slums, community groups, women and child welfare department and police, we had identified around 400 single and destitute women. Around 75 of them are single or unwed mothers who have no evidence of legal marriage and were deserted by the men. Some of them are victims of trafficking and sexual assault who were rescued.”
 
 These women are imparted vocational training in tailoring, embroidery, beautician course, Ayurveda spa and paper-bag making and also to operate household electronic gadgets. Such training and courses would enhance their employment opportunities and help them become economically self-sufficient. The NGOs also try to enrol children of single mothers in schools.
 
 The only home in the outskirts that houses a few of these unwed mothers is   Gruha in   near  . But the home has a limited capacity and houses all kinds of destitute women, rescued sex workers and victims of trafficking. A  , district child protection officer from the women and child welfare department, said, “The Swadhar Gruha is meant for all kinds of vulnerable women and not just unwed mothers. It is run by an NGO but supported by the women and child welfare department.”
 
 VS Raju, secretary of Seed Organisation, the voluntary organisation that runs the home, said, “It is a 30-member home and at present we have 27 women and a few small children. Some of these women are victims of human trafficking and rescued from prostitution, some are victims of domestic violence while a few are single mothers. The women are also taught handicrafts, tailoring, candle-making. There are a couple of short-stay homes for destitute women in Vizag city run by NGOs but there is no exclusive government-run home only for unwed and single mothers and their children. Even at Swadhar, we do not get timely government funds.”
 
