LUCKNOW:   are taking longer than the scheduled time to remove barricades from roads every morning. The official time to barricade one side of roads witnessing Metro work is 11pm-6am but at most locations, the Metro team removes barricades after 7am.

 Barricaded roads are a big risk to students who are on way to school by this time.Besides, as closure of one lane leads to both sides of traffic on the remaining lane, there is congestion near schools in Badshahnagar,  , Charbagh and on  .
 
 Besides, even the sliding barricades lie haphazardly on roads.
 
 TOI did a reality check to see if these barricades are removed by 6am as announced by LMRC. However, we found that in Charbagh, Hussainganj, Hazratganj and on University Road, it took almost one hour extra for them to be removed.
 
 Principal of Colvin Taluqdars' College AS Bedi, whose student faced fatal injuries after bumping into a Metro barricade on University Road on Thursday, said, “Starting Metro construction without widening roads is inviting risk for students.We lost our student because of the carelessness of government departments which should have ensured widening of roads before beginning Metro construction."
 
 The situation near St Agnes’ Loreto Day School and City Montessori School on Station Road is worse.Metro's underground corridor is being built here. One side of the road was closed till 7am on Friday, coinciding with the school timing.With crowds of people and vehicles, there was chaos on the stretch. There was no Metro marshal or traffic policeman at the spot.
 
 “Lucknow Metro should take care that all barricades on both lanes are removed on time to prevent accidents,” said Rishi Khanna, spokesperson for CMS.
 
 An LMRC spokesperson said, “Our contractors on various stretches have confirmed to us that they are following all instructions given by traffic police including the timing to barricade one lane of roads. We complete our work between 11pm and 6am and do not stretch it.
 
 (With inputs from Aarooshy Srivastava, Priya Dixit, Himanshi Shukla, Vishal Singh & Ayush Chaudhary)
 
