MYSURU/CHAMARAJANAGAR: It is over to officials who set out to conduct a peaceful election in the Nanjangud and   assembly segments, picking up EVMs, election material and reaching the polling booths allotted to them on Saturday.

 Polling will be held between 7am and 5pm on Sunday. In all, some 4 lakh voters will decide the fate of the two major parties, as Karnataka heads into an election year.
 
 Both segments have been turned into fortresses, with police and paramilitary forces deployed to ensure a free and fair election.
 
 Mysuru DC D Randeep said the election process will be webcast and videographed in 20 booths, in order to keep a check on illegal activities. On the arrangements made at   in Nanjangud, Randeep said the video will be uploaded live and monitored at the Election Commission. Similarly, activists at all polling stations will be videographed, he said.
 
 The DC said indelible ink will be applied to the forefinger of the voter's left hand, on production of a valid voter ID or any identity card among the 12 documents specified by the Election Commission.
 
 The polling staff have been drafted from outside Nanjangud taluk as an extra layer of security.
 
 For the first time, voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines are being used for elections in both segments.Through VVPAT, the voter can verify which candidate he has voted, within seven seconds. Apart from the voter, even the polling officer cannot see the slip.
 
 “An additional 71 control units, 118 balloting units and 130 VVPAT machines are kept in reserve in case of any technical problem. A total of 354 control units, 307 ballot units and 366 VVPAT have been procured. If there is any problem, we will immediately replace them with reserve machines,“ the DC stated.
 
 The EVMs and VVPAT machines have been tested by authorized technical experts from   (BEL) head by deputy CEO Raghavendra. “For three days, each machine was tested in front of polling agents, candidates and leaders. A mock poll has been done. All the machines have been tested twice and not a single error was found. On polling day, at 6am, a mock poll will be done again by the polling officer,“ he said.
 
 The EVMs will be moved back to JSS First Grade College at Devirammanahalli on the outskirts of Nanjangud late on Saturday. Counting of votes will be held from 8am on April 13. At Gundlupet, 1,375 polling staff have been deputed for a smooth polling across 250 stations set up by the   district administration.
 
 According to deputy commissioner B Ramu, all polling booths will have micro observers, who are officials of the Union government. They will keep track of developments at the polling booths and report to the EC. As VVPAT machines are being used, a mock poll will be held before the start of polling on Sunday, he said. Counting of votes will be at St John's School at Gundlupet.
 
