NEW DELHI: The strategists of the Samajwadi Party-Congress alliance are aiming to garner 35-37% votes in Uttar Pradesh by winning over around 25% of non-Muslims and attracting an overwhelming chunk of Muslims, who account for 18% of the state's population. 

  Behind the unexpected tie-up, to be announced soon, is the calculation that the joint appeal of Samajwadis and   can meld a social coalition which can neutralise the hostility of groups inclined towards BJP and BSP. 
 
  For the proponents of the alliance, their contest is with BJP while BSP, the default option till now, will trail the saffron outfit. A senior Congress leader said the idea behind putting Congress and Samajwadis under one tent is two-fold. 
 
 An SP alliance with the national party not identified with caste politics will help soften the attitude of sections of "floating votes" (upper castes) towards the alliance.
 
  Also, as the lead "secular" player at the national level, Congress is expected to check the drift of Muslim votes to BSP by creating the perception that the alliance is the main challenger to "communal" BJP. On offer in UP are roughly 25% of upper castes, 10% of Yadavs and 26% of non-Yadav OBCs, besides 18% Muslims and 21% Dalits. 
 
 The challenge for SP is the antagonism between upper castes and OBCs, and the schism BJP is trying to crack open among backwards by wooing non-Yadav OBCs and most backwards.
 
 When   took on uncles Shivpal Yadav and Amar Singh, he was trying to be seen as taking on the "negatives" associated with SP, to address the concerns outside the traditional base of father Mulayam.
 
  It is hoped the CM's emergence as the new SP boss will draw a positive reaction from youth and upper castes, while putting up a strong challenge to BJP in the competition for non-Yadav OBCs. 
 
  A senior leader said the alliance was merely trying to add 15-17% Hindu votes to SP's base of 10% Yadavs. Also, it is seeking a virtual one-way consolidation of Muslims. 
 
  Observers, however, argue that the plan faces challenge from the fact that BSP has fielded roughly 100 Muslim candidates who are expected to get a chunk of community votes and that BJP polled 43% votes, all Hindus, in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. 
 
  The success of the plan will eventually depend on how strongly or poorly BSP fares. If the Dalit outfit stays in the hunt, the three-way contest will have a lower threshold for securing a majority. In the last two elections, SP and BSP have won majority by winning around 30% votes. 
 
 
