Selling fake sports items in less than half the price of the original is a thriving business in Gurgaon’s grey markets – a single raid hasn’t been able to make a dent in the sales.

 In a hush-hush operation last week, Gurgaon police raided a store in Chakkarpur, behind  , that sells the best fake footballs in town. The fake balls are so close to the originals that it’s hard to tell that they have been manufactured locally, and not by the same brand. We visited some shops in   and   and found that a number of shops sell these copies and have put up ‘branded items on sale’ boards outside. The shopkeepers told us that the reason they stock up on these fake sports items is that they are in demand due to the cheap prices.
 
 A total of 60 footballs were confiscated in the raid. Each of these balls had the hologram of the original brand and could fool even the most practised eye. They cost `200 each, while the original prices start from `800. The raid was conducted on a complaint filed by an investigator of a football brand. 
 Moolchand, the sub-inspector who had raided the shop, said, “We had received a complaint about fake football brands, so we sent one of our officials to the store for confirmation, after which we raided the shops.” The cops, however, maintained that since selling fake items comes under the Copyright Act, they can take action only when a complaint is filed.
 
 
 The raid created panic among the shopkeepers and they said that raids do not happen often. Rajesh*, a seller of fake branded sports items in Old Gurgaon, said, “We heard that a police team barged into a shop for selling fake items.”
 
 “It was the first time we heard of such a raid in the market. But the cops left within half an hour and didn’t go to other shops,” he added. Another seller in Old Gurgaon said, “We never expected this, our market has never been raided before. The police never undertake any surprise operations. But we have to be more alert now.” However, other sellers said that it’s all safe because the police take action only after a complaint is filed, and they also learnt that the officials were on the lookout only for the brand for which the complaint was filed. He added, “The police did not even bother to look into other known brands.”
  
  A shop which sells fake sports items in   (BCCL)
 
 
 These grey markets are known for their cheap rip-offs. Aman Manchanda, a Class XI student who purchased a cricket kit for `2000 while the original costs `8000, said, “You find practically everything in a sports store in Chakkarpur – the latest designs and variety. These fakes are so good that even the logo looks original.”
 
 Surprisingly, the demand for these fake brands is not only from those who are unable to afford the originals, but also from people who can easily buy them.  , a housewife, a resident of the Golf course area who was in Old Gurgaon, said, “Buying branded sports items is not an issue, but I know my son’s choice of sports changes every two months. He will go for football today and tennis tomorrow. If I spend my money on new brands daily, I will end up spending the same amount on his sportswear as the school fee.”
 
 Another sports enthusiast, Rishabh, a class IX student who was enquiring about tennis rackets, said, “I go to the showrooms and check the latest stock and then buy them at less than half the price from these shops. If selling them is not wrong, why would buying be? If I don’t find it in these shops, then I look online because it is cheaper online.”
 
 *Name changed on request
 
 
