NEW DELHI: CM  's former principal secretary,  , who was suspended in July last year after his 
  in a case of alleged corruption, has sought voluntary retirement. In a 26-page letter to the Delhi chief secretary on Wednesday, Kumar quoted rules to plead that his request be accepted within three weeks.

 In an emotional appeal, he said, “I have no personal knowledge of an honest, efficient officer being implicated in false criminal cases, arrested, prosecuted and harassed in all imaginable and unimaginable manners. I have never earlier seen or heard of brute state powers being used in such brazen and bizarre manner, which I have experienced. Never earlier have I...heard of investigative agencies so openly flouting all norms of professionalism.“ Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's former principal secretary , Rajendra Kumar, has said in his letter to the chief secretary , seeking voluntary retirement, that “never earlier have I experienced the kind of such utter disregard for system, process, protocol, transparency and decency which I have experienced first-hand in my own case.“
 
 The 1989-batch IAS officer, who has worked in various capacities in Delhi government, faced an Anti-Corruption Branch (ABC) case after bureaucrat Ashish Joshi alleged that Kumar had as director of education and later secretary (IT and Health) and VAT commissioner set up various companies to award work orders without tenders, causing financial loss to Delhi government. He alleged that Endeavors Systems Private Ltd (ESPL) was one such company . The CBI moved in later and the trial is on.
 
 Kumar alleged that during his 
  , he was repeatedly told that he would be allowed to go free if he implicated the chief minister. Leveling serious allegations against the investigating agency, he said: “Maybe this was the reason for CBI to go to such extraordinary lengths. Not only this, the CBI, just to force people to implicate me and the chief minister, has beaten up dozens of people, and some of them sustained permanent major injuries.“ He added pointedly that “it is the same set of people in CBI who forced B K Bansal and his son to commit suicide.“
 
 According to Kumar, his troubles started soon after he was invited by Kejriwal to work with him in December 2013. He claimed that after the CM resigned in February 2014, the LG had conveyed to him that people had informed him that he had identified himself too closely with the new government.
 
 In his second stint with the state government, he faced the ACB case. When the Government failed to find anything against him, he has alleged, his name was dragged into the CNG fitness scam which dates back to 2002 on the point why he didn't cancel the contract during his tenure as commissioner of transport in 2012 though legally there was no such need, he said.
 
 Finally, the CBI registered an FIR and began investigating him. “In my case, it has been alleged that I have given contracts worth Rs 9.5 crore without following due process. The CBI has not been able to even allege that a single paisa has come to me,“ he claimed. He was arrested on July 4, 2016, seven months after the FIR was registered and suspended on July 6.
 
 “My suspension for three months was to end on October 2, 2016. There is a   judgement guiding the course of action in such cases (Ajay Kumar Choudhary versus Union of India, February 16, 2015) ...Still the Government, in clear violation of the Supreme Court judgement, which is the law of the land, and its own office memorandum, illegally extended my suspension by another 180 days.“
 
 Finally, on December 19, the CBI filed a chargesheet against him. He was accused of criminal conspiracy, cheating and forgery under IPC and provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act, along with eight others and ESPL. CBI said Kumar abused his official position by “favouring a particular firm in the last few years in getting tenders of Delhi government departments“.
 
 Narrating how he has been hounded, Kumar has alleged that income-tax notices have been slapped on him only to harass him, his tenant at his house at the   in   threatened and scared away ­ the house is lying vacant now ­ and his subsistence allowance for July, August and September was released only in October and nothing has been released since then. This amount has also not been enhanced from 50% of the salary to 75% at the end of three months, as is the rule, he says. This is apart from a series of raids and searches.
 
 “The administrative envi ronment appears to have become so poisonous that anybody who decides to continue with his belief in political neutrality of a civil servant is bound to get suffocated,“ he says, claiming that he has finally decided to serve people in “other ways“ and not by working in the government.
 
 In the earlier part of the letter, Kumar recalled his humble origins ­ - his father was a sub-inspector, ­and said it was only because of the welfare schemes of the government that he was able to have a distinguished career and come this far. Seeking a quick exit now, he has argued the government of NCT of Delhi is competent to grant him voluntary retirement. That, however, may not come easily.
 
