MUMBAI: This monsoon, motorists will not experience a bumpy ride as most of the roads that would repeatedly develop   have been fixed, claimed the municipal corporation. However, the family members of those who died in pothole-related accidents said heavy showers could prove the BMC’s claims.

 There are   in the city, according to the  . 
 
 This year, the BMC has taken up two kinds of repairs: The usual ‘project works’ where roads are fixed from base layer and resurfacing where only the top layer is scrapped and relaid. Resurfacing work is being carried out on roads that report repeated pothole complaints. 
 
 Civic officials said they had planned to fix 113 priority I roads—these stretches repeatedly develop potholes—by May 15, but could complete work on only 85 roads. Officials said they will now repair the remaining 28 stretches before May 31. Civic officials said that for the past few years, these roads have been regularly developing potholes during monsoon, hence they decided to repair the entire stretch after resurfacing the road, instead of just filling up potholes. Among the 113 priority I roads, 12 are on the Andheri (E)-Jogeshwari (E) belt, 11 in Kandivli (W) and 10 in Ghatkopar (W).
 
 Dadarao Bilhore, who lost his son in a pothole-related accident in 2015, said, “The BMC is doing satisfactory work and using good material this time, but only monsoon showers will prove their claim. They are not paying attention to the side lane of narrow roads that have been dug up for various utilities, which could lead to accidents.”
 
 The BMC had taken up the challenge to make Mumbai pothole-free this monsoon. A few months ago, municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta asked all civic officers concerned to prepare a detailed plan on how to repair roads before the arrival of monsoon. All ward officers were asked to list roads that develop potholes every monsoon and the civic body decided to resurface these stretches to fix the problem.
 
 The municipal corporation also listed 268 roads for priority II resurfacing work—stretches that could develop potholes after heavy showers. The BMC has managed to repair only 128 such roads by May 15; the remaining 140 stretches will be resurfaced after monsoon, said civic officials.
 
