CHENNAI: Paving the way for recruitment of around 750 engineers for various posts in   (  Generation and Distribution Corporation) lying vacant for several years now, the Madras high court has said trained apprentices too should go through the rigour of a written examination and an interview for selection along with other aspirants.

 Justice T S Sivagnanam, dismissing a batch of 51 petitions from trained apprentices seeking that they be treated as a separate class and exempted from written   so as to be selected based on special norms, said: “The law laid down by the Supreme Court in a civil appeal while interpreting the condition ‘other things be equal, a trained   should be given preference over direct recruits’ held that the only natural meaning for the phrase ‘other things be equal’ is that all candidates must have been subjected to the same selection process, that is same written test and interview. The petitioners/trained apprentices cannot seek themselves to be treated as a different class or category of persons to be exempted from taking the written examination. The law, as laid down by the Supreme Court, is clear and no such right accrues to the apprentices.”
 
 Tangedco proposes to fill 750 vacancies to the posts of assistant engineers, technical assistants and field assistants (trainee) and called for applications from eligible candidates in December 2015.
 
 A total of 51 petitioners, who have completed their apprenticeship training with Tangedco, moved the court challenging the employment notifications dated December 10 and 28, 2015, on the ground that making trained apprentices to undergo written examination was illegal. 
 
 They wanted the court direct Tangedco and its chief engineer (personnel) to dispense with the written examination for apprentices, and instead, recruit them directly for such posts as assistant engineer (electrical), assistant engineer (mechanical) and assistant engineer (civil). They also wanted a scheme to be formulated for absorbing the trained apprentices.
 
 Citing the Supreme Court rulings and dismissing their pleas, Justice Sivagnanam held that no such right would accrue to apprentices. “This court finds that the amendment to Section 22(1) of the Act does not confer any vested right on the petitioners/apprentices. Even much prior to the amendment, the policy of the board was that if merit and ability are equal, preference shall be given to an apprentice who had undergone training in the board.”
 
 The court then directed Tangedco to proceed further with the recruitment process based on the results of written examination.
 
 
