PATNA: The administration proposes to barricade all the illegally created routes from   locality to the Gandhi Setu’s approach road to ease the snarls at the Patna end of the bridge.
 
  The National Highway wing of the state road construction department ( ) has accepted a proposal of the   in this regard. The department is also in the process of identifying the “black spots”, which are prone to accidents, on the approach roads at both the ends.
  
  Sources said the RCD had initiated the tender process and the barricade construction work would be completed within six months.
  
  A visit to the approach road at the Patna end revealed Gai Ghat locals use elevated mud routes to climb on to the   and catch buses. This causes chaos on the bridge.
  
  The Gai Ghat locals are supposed to reach the Gandhi Setu through the   roundabout. Hajipur-bound buses are supposed to pick up passengers from the junction where the Biscomaun roundabout route meets.
  
  “But people prefer shortcuts. They even remove aside the police’s trolleys to make way for themselves. The buses also pull up at those points on the bridge to pick up passengers, thereby adding to the jam,” SP (traffic)   told TOI on Tuesday, adding even auto drivers and bikers had started using these elevated makeshift stretches leading to the approach road.
  
  The sources said many commuters used to bribe policemen when caught using these stretches. At least six policemen were suspended in recent months. Recently, a newlywed couple came under the wheels of a bus after reaching the approach road through the makeshift stretch, and died on the spot, the sources said.
  
  The city traffic police have also urged the road construction department to hand over to them the newly laid additional lane on both the flanks of the Setu approach road at the Patna end. The additional lanes parallel to the approach road were created last month to ease the traffic problem.
  
  However, the lanes have been encroached by petty garage owners and transporters. “The dividers separating the additional lanes from the approach road have been broken by the encroachers to provide access to their patrons,” said a traffic police officer.
