MUMBAI: A section of the   celebrated the start of a new era Thursday. The elderly head of their religious mutt appointed his successor at an initiation ceremony in Cancona, Goa.

  Teertha Vader Swami chose 21-year-old  , the son of a modest temple priest as his nominee. The swami had spotted the lad during a religious sojourn in his village in Belgaum three years ago.
 
 The boy was then trained for the top job although he will only take charge as the 24th pontiff upon the passing of the present swami.
 
 The Gokarn Partagali Jeevottam Mutt that helms the famous Ram Mandir at Wadala was instituted March 25, 1475. Headquartered in Goa, it also has followers in Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra. It has been guided by 23 swamis through its 542-year history. The present head Srimad Vidyadhiraj is 72.
 
 At an elaborate ceremony at the mutt headquarters in Goa Thursday morning, 'Shishottam' Uday Bhat took on the new name of Vidyadheesh Swami. He renounced all worldly relations and virtually performed his own 'shraddh', implying that he is dead to his family.
 
 "Ten thousand GSB members travelled to Goa for this once in a lifetime ceremony. The present peethadheesh was ordained in 1967 and the next nomination could well take decades," said N N Pal, chairman of the GSB Wadala   who also attended.
 
 Swami Vidyadhirajji chanced upon Uday Bhat when he arrived to stay in the lad's village of Kasarkod in Belgaum (not to be mistaken for Kasargod in Karnataka) for the Chaturmas observance in 2013.
 
 "Swamiji was impressed by his eagerness, diligence and obedience and decided this was the youth who would in time be capable of handling the affairs of the order. He took Uday Bhat under his wing to train him for the task. Over time he attained proficiency in religious duties, and on Thursday the mutt put the seal on his succession order," said Pal.
 
 Uday Bhat was born October 10, 1995. His father owns a small patch of land and is temple priest of the village. The youth has an older brother who works in the fields.
 
 Interestingly, there was no factionalism to contend with or other contenders to trump. "To be honest, few youngsters these days are willing to come up and accept this onerous responsibility. Common priests can marry and raise families, but the head of the mutt must remain celibate lifelong and sever relations with his parents, siblings and relatives. In the age of the smartphone, few youth are willing to renounce a life of luxury for one of austerity," said Pal.
 
