KOLKATA: At least four neo-JMB members are presently camping in Bengal — and Bihar and Assam — and trying to organize arms and finances for the banned Bangladeshi outfit.

 The fresh revelation came as   alias Marzan, one of the masterminds of last year’s deadly attack on a Bangladeshi cafe, was killed in a gunfight early on Friday. Marzan, leader of  , and another unidentified extremist were killed by Counter-Terrorism and Transnational Crime (CTTC) unit in   area of Dhaka.
 
 Documents recovered from Marzan show he — along with one more operative identified so far as Rajib — had been receiving arms supplied by these four men in India. 
 
 The Kolkata Police special task force — which had arrested six JMB operatives in October for links in Khagragarh blasts — said they will put a renewed effort to trace the four men identified as leader Shariful Islam, Mamunur Rashid and Junayed Khan — all of whom had reportedly fled to India after the Gulshan attack and joined hands with   (leading the neo-JMB in eastern India), trying to increase their capacity by collecting firearms.
 
 According to the revelations, Marzan had stayed back in the country after the old JMB hands promised to try and bolster the organization even as they hid in India. 
 
 “Even in the chargesheet that we submitted against the six JMB operatives in a Kolkata court, we have highlighted how the accused had prepared fake identity documents to pass themselves off as Indians. In the supplementary chargesheet, we are trying to establish how the six men were arranging material and money for the new outfit. The stress was not so much on recruitment, but rather on how they were bolstering their resources,” said a STF official in Kolkata.
 
 CTTC chief Monirul Islam said the neo-JMB brought in the weapons through its channels. “They did not take assistance from professional arms smugglers. Although we have information that the AK-22s were modified in India, we are not sure where they were manufactured,” he added.
 
