PANAJI: In India’s tiniest state with a population of around 15 lakh, an average of 11 Goan people are surrendering their Indian citizenship every day after acquiring Portuguese passports. If for some, it is the lure of the British life that makes them embrace Portuguese citizenship, for others it is just a convenient way for a hassle-free travel across the world.

 From 4 people every day giving away their Indian citizenship in 2014, the numbers have reached 11 in a couple of years. With no clear statistics of Goans surrendering their Indian   at embassies in other countries, the figure is expected to inch up.
 
 So, if it was 1,613 people who surrendered their Indian citizenship in 2014, it went up to 3,863 in 2015 and has crossed the 4,000-mark to touch 4,131 in 2016. 
 
 Compared to the Portuguese lure, a mere six people opted for citizenship of other countries including Bahrain, the US, Canada, Mozambique and the UK in 2016.
 
 The Portuguese passport became more alluring to Goans and those from Daman and Diu after the UK became a part of the  . 
 
 Though fears of Brexit have failed to dampen the spirits of Goenkars, who continue to make a dash to the UK on Portuguese passports, it sowed seeds of doubts in people’s minds. While in June last year, the Brexit referendum month, only 290 people opted to give away their Indian passports, it shot up to 360 and 480 surrenders in July and August, respectively.
 
 But some of them have decided to wait and watch before taking the plunge. Like William D’Souza (name changed), 22, and his 24-year-old brother from Quepem, who received their Portuguese passports last year and are still waiting to join their parents and relatives who settled in the UK three years ago.
 
 D’Souza, who completed a catering course and is employed with a private company, isn’t as confident about his decision, as he was last year. “I’m sure I’ll get a job in the hotel line in the UK. If there’s an issue, we have the option of working in France, Germany and other EU countries,” he had told TOI in June last year just as he was making plans to leave.
 
 Nine months later, he is still in Quepem. “My parents advised us to stay in Goa until article 50 is formally triggered. We don’t know what will happen,” he says, as he holds on to his present job.
 
 The assembly constituency of St Andre, which comprises villages of Siridao-Palem, Batim, Agaccaim, Azossim-Mandur, Curca-Bambolim, Neura and Goa Velha, was the only assembly constituency in 2017 that saw a decline in its electorate. Over a 10-year period, this constituency has shown a dip of 1,254 voters
 
 The villages of Agasaim, Siridao and Goa Velha have seen a large number of its population migrate to Europe. “Every month, an average of 50 people migrate from St Andre constituency, with 10 migrating from Agaccaim alone,” sarpanch James Afonso had said.
 
 S Fernandes from Mapusa gave up his dream job as a government servant to join his wife, a Portuguese passport holder, and family in Swindon. Working for a pharmaceutical company, Fernandes says he moved for better prospects and because he felt very lonely away from family. Businesses in the UK, he reckons, survived because of migrants. “How can the government decide to send all Europeans back home? We pay taxes here and receive medical facilities and quality schooling for our children,” he says, adding that corruption, favouritism, racism and police-politician nexus don’t hamper citizen’s lives.
 
 But not all have taken up the Portuguese citizenship to shift to the UK. Some like Sharon Antao, who has no plans to settle down in the UK, is getting her Portuguese passport made so that she can travel across the world without a  . “With my Indian passport, I have to go through the hassle of applying for visas when I travel on work and on holidays with my husband. When this opportunity is available, I don’t see any reason why I shouldn’t take advantage of it,” she says.
 
 
