MADURAI: Two men entered a house posing as income tax officials and made off with gold jewellery weighing 45 sovereigns and Rs 45, 000 cash. They also confiscated two mobile phones from the house while escaping. The incident took place in the house of a sanitary inspector working in the city corporation located at   in Palanganatham in Madurai city. The conmen escaped with the jewellery. 

 The sanitation inspector, identified as Veeranan, was away when the incident occurred. His wife   and daughter, a class nine student, were present when two persons arrived in a sedan. They told the occupants that they had already detained   for tax evasion and that they wanted to search the house. They were also refrained from making any phone calls and their mobile phones were also snatched. 
 
 As the mother and daughter were shell-shocked and did not know what to do, the duo quickly conducted a search. They took gold jewellery weighing 45 sovereigns and cash worth Rs 45, 000 from the house and escaped in the car. The incident took place around 10.45 am. Although the area where the incident took place is densely populated, the house is located at the dead end of the Ninth Cross Street and made it easy for the suspects to make off. 
 
 The mother and daughter who had doubts, immediately called up Veeran after the conmen left. That was when it was confirmed that they were cheated. The city police were informed immediately and a team rushed to the spot to conduct inquiries. They also inquired with the people in the neighbourhood. Meanwhile, check posts both in the city and outskirts were alerted to look for the vehicle.
 
 Subramaniyapuram police registered a case. Higher police officers including Madurai city deputy commissioner (law and order) P Sasi Mohan and deputy commissioner (crime) R Jayanthi visited the spot and conducted inquiries. Police who assessed the timing of the incident suspect that persons who are familiar with the movement of the family members might have been. Veeran who leaves the house in the morning, would return only at noon for lunch.
 
