ETAWAH: BSP chief   on Monday promised that she would continue to develop   pocket borough  , if she comes to power in the state.

 Addressing a rally in Etawah, Mayawati said the Yadav vote bank is divided between the warring camps of chief minister   and his uncle Shivpal. “Ye dono ek doosre ko harayenge aur isliye ye SP-Congress ka gathbandhan bhi gaya kaam se (the two warring camps will ensure each other’s defeat and even the SP-Congress camp won’t work),” she said in the rally held in Bakewar block of Bharthana assembly constituency of Etawah. 
 
 Mayawati said that unlike SP her party would not restrict development to only certain regions of UP. “We would ensure complete development of Etawah like all other districts. There will be no favouritism. My government would take up local conditions and make budgetary provisions for them,” BSP chief said. 
 
 Interestingly, many development projects undertaken by the Mulayam government in Etawah were dumped by Mayawati when came to power in 2007 assembly elections. 
 
 Mayawati said the BJP is scared of BSP and thus not attacking it and instead pitching projecting SP-Congress alliance as its key opponent. “That's the proof of BJP already conceding defeat even before polling for all phases gets over,” she said. “BJP ki halat toh bahut kharab ho chuki hai (BJP’s position is very weak),” she said.
 
 The BSP chief asked the crowd: “Did any of you get a single penny from the Modi government.” The crowd waived hands and shouted ‘No’. “Ab aap log samajh lijiye aur sabak sikha dijiye,” she said.
 
 In her one-hour speech, Mayawati called the SP a party of goons and added that she would jail them if the BSP government comes back to power. Mayawati also attacked the Congress calling it a party which faced rout in many states because of corruption and added that BJP is following the Congress by coming up with demonetisation scheme. “Despite all the demands, the BJP government has not revealed how much black money was seized. Its silence indicates that something is fishy,” she said. 
 
 
