BATHINDA/FEROZEPUR: Police here have arrested five gangsters responsible for the killing of a youth at a village near Malerkotla on the night of February 8. A brief encounter took place at Makhu town of Ferozepur in the wee hours of Saturday, in which the kingpin of the gang, Gahia Khan, sustained a bullet injury in his left leg. Nearly 100 rounds were fired before the gang members surrendered to the police. 

 Bikramjit Singh Bobby (23), a resident of   village near Malerkotla, was killed on February 8 when gang members led by Gahia had fired at him while he was going to a religious place. The gang had earlier fired at a shopkeeper. 
 
 “Gahia Khan (27) of Matoi village and Boota Khan (26) of Takhar Khurd village, both in Sangrur, Vishal (26) and Stephen(25) of Makhu and Amandeep (25) of Faridkot were hiding at a house in ward number eight at the backside of   at Makhu. The house was rented by Amandeep, who is working with a private telecom company at Makhu. Even the owner,  , was living in the same house,” said a Makhu resident.
 
 Eyewitnesses said that they were surprised to hear gunshots early on Saturday.
 
 Zira DSP Waryam Singh told TOI, “The gang members were hiding at Makhu after committing the crime at Malerkotla. We got a tip-off and cordoned off the house around 4 am on Saturday and waited for sunrise. At 7 am, Gahia noticed police outside the house and opened fire. The police retaliated and also asked the gang members to surrender. Bhag Singh came out and asked the gang members to surrender. All surrendered but Gahia tried to flee by scaling a wall. The police fired at him and he was hit in the left leg. Nearly 100 rounds were fired, with 16 by the gang members.”
 
 Ferozepur SSP Gaurav Garg said, “Police recovered two guns of .32 bore and one of .315 bore with 22 cartridges of .32 bore and 17 cartridges of .315 bore. Prima facie the gang members are responsible for the Malerkotla killing but we are investigating about Guru Har Sahai firing incident of February 4 outside a polling booth.”
 
 Sangrur SSP   said that they had received information about the Ferozepur police arresting some accused in connection with the firing incident that had taken place at Jitwal. He said they were constantly in touch with their counterparts in Ferozepur and soon efforts would be initiated to bring the accused back to the district on a transit remand. The SSP said that they were in touch with the Ferozepur police after the incident and had been continuously sharing and updating intelligence inputs among themselves to track down the accused.
 
