BHOPAL: A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “raincoat” jibe in the Rajya Sabha, the state Congress on Thursday launched a scathing attack saying the same theory of taking a bath wearing a raincoat applies to the top brass of the BJP-RSS in Madhya Pradesh. “The PM’s speech in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday targeted an untainted, honest and economic and finance expert former Prime Minister like Manmohan Singh,” said state Congress president Arun Yadav.

 “We want to ask both PM Modi and RSS chief  , who is in the state presently if they are not following the philosophy of wearing the raincoat and taking a bath so far as Madhya Pradesh is concerned,” Yadav alleged. “Over past 12 years, there has been endless number of scams, including Vyapam Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board (MPPEB) irregularities, a continuous illegal sand mining racket along the banks of the Narmada, corruption in midday meals scheme and a Rs 2,200 crore Katni hawala scam involving a minister of state.”
 
 The Congress asked the reason behind the silence of PM Modi and Bhagwat on these issues. “Will PM and RSS chief remain mere spectators while a thousand dumpers belonging to top political leaders of the BJP illegally mine sand from the Narmada river?” Yadav asked. “Isn’t this the same as taking a bath wearing a raincoat?”
 
 The state Congress raised five questions which they said Bhagwat should answer during his address in the Lal Parade Grounds on Friday. “Wasn’t the RSS chief visiting the Betul district jail on Wednesday to pay homage to former RSS leader   (who was detained there for five months in 1949), a violation of the jail manual? How many acres of land has the RSS acquired from the state BJP government throughout the state? Why does the RSS chief always have to disturb the social harmony of the state during his visits? Why is he quiet on the Katni hawala scam involving minister of state  ? And, why is he silent on illegal sand mining issue when the CM’s kin are involved,” Arun Yadav alleged.
 
 
