JALANDHAR: The Congress will be facing rebels in five of the 23 assembly seats in Doaba region of Punjab when the state goes to polls on February 4.

 Inspite of a 48-hour ultimatum given by   president Captain Amarinder Singh to toe the party line or face party expulsion for life, rebels in Banga (sitting MLA Tarlochan Singh Soondh), Nakodar (Gurbinder Singh Atwal),   (Surinder Mahey), Garhshankar (Nimisha Mehta), and Dasuya (SAD turncoat   who joined the party two months ago) did not withdraw their nominations on the last day, January 21. 
 
 Soondh has openly blamed Congress senior leader   for denial of ticket to him, saying “she does not want Amarinder to become CM and got the ticket denied to a winnable sitting MLA”.
 
 Soondh and former Nurmahal MLA Atwal said Amarinder’s “life-time expulsion” warning would not stay for long. “We are Congress men and will remain so. No one can take away our identity from us. Expulsions are never permanent. This party would take leaders back just before Parliament elections,” they said, while making light of the ultimatum. 
 
 Though Soondh and Atwal held a joint press conference here on Tuesday, Soondh did not blame Amarinder and mainly targeted Ambika Soni. Atwal, on other hand, trained his guns at Amarinder. “How can leaders who had left Congress in the past and made their own party can now pronounce life-time expulsions?” they asked. “Nobody knows if such leaders would be there in the saddle after two years or not,” Atwal said.
 
 Soondh said Congress, initially, tried to project the incident of his show throwing in the state assembly, but stopped it when some leaders realized that it would lead to emergence of Dalit leaders. “Dalit leaders were emerging prominently in the party, but they have been pushed back in ticket distribution,” he said.
 
 Former Jalandhar mayor Mahey, who is contesting from Jalandhar West, also said he was not bothered about being expelled. Nimisha, who is considered close to Ambika Soni and former PPCC chief  , also refused to withdraw from the contest and continued campaigning till late Thursday.
 
