KOLKATA: If the BJP tries to showcase its spectacular victory in UP as a vindication of Narendra Modi's demonetisation move,   begs to differ. 

 The Bengal CM upped her ante against notebandi at the inauguration of a working women's hostel on Friday. "Industrialists may be hounded by CBI and I-T officials if they open up on this issue. They will reach your doorstep even if you talk to me. Ask yourselves if demonetisation was a curse or not. I am not afraid. I will stick my neck out to voice my dissent. If they (CBI) take the front-ranking leaders in custody, I have my next generation ready," the chief minister said.
 
 Mamata then addressed the women in the gathering. "Do you have your piggybanks ('Lakshmir bhnaar') in place? Or have you all broken them? Don't be scared. Start keeping them again. The Centre is free to adopt a policy. But that has to be done after holding reasonable consultations with all sections," Mamata said. Aware of the controversy among a section of doctors over the new West Bengal Clinical Establishments (Monitoring and Regulation) Act, the CM clarified she enacted it after consultations at various levels. "The Act deals with all aspects - from complaints against overbilling by private hospitals to hospital vandalism," she said.
 
 Addressing industrialists, the CM reassured them there is nothing to fear. "If you are an honest and law-abiding taxpayer, you have nothing to fear. Why don't all the commerce and industry chambers come together in the hour of need? Why don't you raise your voice when somebody is made the target," asked Mamata. 
 
 Turning to cricket administrator Abhishek Dalmia, the chief minister said: "I can see Dalmia's son sitting there. Why don't you protest? I would appeal to women to hit the streets. Setting up ladies' study groups isn't enough. You have to raise your voice, take to the road," she urged.
 
 Having said that, Mamata didn't miss out on the development agenda. Earlier, she touched upon her government's achievements from infrastructure to social sector. "While coming to this Behala programme, I was telling Sovan Chatterjee (mayor and minister) about beautifying the pavements after the Metro construction is over. We will do the same for Rajarhat. We will throw open the International Convention Centre at Rajarhat before Puja. It will host the next Biswa Bangla Sammelan. In course of time, suburban Kolkata will be linked through Metro network," the CM said.
 
 
