BHOPAL: Amid the row over alleged ‘tampering’ of EVMs, political focus in Madhya Pradesh is back on the curious seizure of an electronic chip from a voting machine in Sagar in the 2013   in Madhya Pradesh. The police probe got nowhere and no one knows whether the case has been closed, but the   candidate who blew the whistle is preparing to dig up the case files and move court.

 Kamlesh Baghel, the Congress candidate for Surkhi constituency, says that a “suspicious chip” was found attached to an EVM in booth No. 56 in a remote area of Sagar on November 26, 2013. His FIR led to an investigation but when TOI tried to find out the status of the probe on Sunday, neither police nor any district official had a clue. 
 
 “The chip was not sent for forensic or scientific examination. I don’t even know whether police have filed a chargesheet in the case or simply closed the investigation. Now that similar complaints are coming from other states, I will move court for a detailed investigation into the chip,” Baghel told TOI. 
 
 The device, slightly larger than a mobile SIM card, and three small batteries were found wrapped in black cloth and attached to the underside of the EVM, said sources. Baghel had approached police, naming a local resident, C P Singh, as the brain behind the device. Singh went underground after the complaint, lending credence to the Congress cry of conspiracy.
 
 Baghel, the Congress candidate then, says Singh had offered to manipulate EVMs for him. “Singh telephoned me on November 21, seeking an appointment. He said three EMVs can be manipulated with a single remote control. I rejected the offer. On polling day, when my agent reported the seizure of a strange device, I instantly recalled Singh’s offer,” Baghel said, adding that Singh had sent several SMSs to him, claiming that he can use a gadget to even delete all the votes in an EVM.
 
 One of the SMSes (in Hindi) sent to Baghel’s phone by the suspect goes: “Manipulation can still be done. EVM memory can be formatted, but it could have an adverse effect too. I have worked in an EVM manufacturing company.” He had sent more than 10 text messages to the Congress candidate, which he forwarded to the investigators.
 
 “The person who called me said that the chip can receive radio signals from a distance of 100 metres. If these EVMs use such a chip, then the candidate’s number (on the machine) can allegedly be transmitted to the EVM from a distance any time before counting and change the vote count. This leaves no trace and ensures that their favourite candidate wins. This is what he told me,” said Baghel, adding that he had also given him a demo by interrupting a radio frequency. 
 
 The then district election officer, Yogendra Sharma, ordered a probe to ascertain if the device had any impact on voting. The polling officers of Booth 56 were summoned. Sharma told TOI that no tampering was detected in the EVM. “The person who approached candidates with an offer to tamper the EVM was trying to deceive them. It was just a fraud to mint money from political leaders. Tampering was not possible,” said Sharma, who was collector of Sagar district at that time. He retired recently. “I am not aware of the status of the police investigation,” he said.
 
