NEW DELHI: A 17-year-old boy, who was stabbed a year ago for standing up to youths harassing his sister, went on a gruesome revenge spree on Sunday night. He allegedly killed his attacker in west Delhi’s Khyala, returned to his central Delhi neighbourhood and stabbed to death another of his sibling’s tormentors. 

 In an orgy of violence, the juvenile first went with a friend to Khyala to exact revenge on Sunil, who was serving a jail term for stabbing the boy and was out on parole. The duo stabbed Sunil four times, in the neck and abdomen, with a button knife. 
 
 The boy returned alone to his locality, Nabi Karim, and went to his second target, Kuldeep. He allegedly stabbed the youth over 20 times to ensure that he was dead.
 
 Police said that the killings were reported on Sunday night. The juvenile and his friend, Manor, 22, met at a bus stand in Khyala from where they went to Sunil’s house. They called him to a park near his house on the pretext of discussing something. 
 
 They told the police that they engaged him in a conversation for around five minutes, after which they attacked him with a knife. 
 
 Leaving him to bleed, the duo snatched the man’s gold chain and left for Nabi Karim. On the way, Manoj received a call from his family, asking him to come home. As Manoj left, the juvenile did not change his mind and went straight for his second target, Kuldeep, police said. 
 
 Knowing that Kuldeep would be alone at home at 11pm, the boy knocked at the door and barged in as soon as it opened. Police said the juvenile pulled Kuldeep by the collar and took him to a dark spot near his house, where he brutally stabbed him over 20 times with the same knife used in the first  . 
 
 Kuldeep raised an alarm but by the time other residents came out the juvenile had fled. A police team took Kuldeep to hospital where doctors declared him brought dead on arrival. 
 
 After a few hours of both the murders, cops from the west district managed to nab Manoj, who later confessed about his involvement in the crime. Meanwhile, cops from the central district traced the juvenile and apprehended him. 
 
 The juvenile told the cops that he had known Sunil for the past two years and often fought with him over trivial issues. He claimed to have murdered him so that the fights end once and for all, police said. The boy said he had planned to kill Kuldeep the moment he came out of the hospital after being treated for stab injuries last year. Since then, he had been looking for an opportunity to attack him. 
 
 "The accused were arrested and investigations were taken up," said Vijay Kumar, deputy commissioner of police (west). The weapon of offence and the gold chain that they had snatched has been recovered from their possession, he added.
 
