Prateik Babbar, who was recently in Delhi for a theatrical performance, tells us that though he has a home here, he tries not to come to Delhi too often. "I have a home, a dog and a good cook here. I get very lazy when I come to Delhi. My visits here are all about sitting and eating and it is very dangerous. I am a big foodie, but most of the times I am on a strict diet, so I have never really eaten everything that I want to. That one food trip where I will go to different places and eat is yet to happen in Delhi," he says. 

 
  
  
 
 
  Prateik is busy with his theatre work presently and says that he wants to focus just on acting. To all those who wonder if he will follow his father's footsteps into politics, he says, "I don't think I can get into   anytime soon. I have done some campaigning for my father in villages around   and Agra, and I know it is a very tough job, but it is interesting. My father is very good at it and I respect the kind of work he does in politics and for the people, but I only want to focus on acting now."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  After making his debut in films, it took Prateik a few years to get into theatre. His first play, 'Six', is now a talked-about production and is based on LB  's 'A Midnight Clear'. About playing a homosexual character in the play, the actor says, "I think the audience is far more mature and accepting of such topics now in our films and theatre, so we are seeing more films and plays on this. The depiction in theatre is different from that in films, because our films have to go through censorship and restrictions, but there aren't as many restrictions in theatre. We have got a huge response from the LGBT community and from other audiences. I have faced some flak too for my role. Once, a person had a problem with the way I was sitting in the play," says Prateik. 
 
 
  
    strolls down Rajpath (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 Prateik underwent a nine-month training in method acting for to prepare for the role. "Both my parents have done considerable work in theatre and I have grown up with that culture, but I still felt that I needed formal training. For the play, I didn't need to do much research, as I have had a lot of gay friends, both men and women, since I was 15. I have been watching films that portray homosexuality in a beautiful way – one of them was  ' 'The Birdcage'. I feel that a film or a play presenting homosexuality does not necessarily have to come with a message for the audience. It is a way of life, everyone should be treated equally."
 
  
  
 
 
 
