CHENNAI: People For Animals on Monday denied reports that   had challenged   government’s   ordinance in the  .

 Union women and child development minister Maneka Gandhi is the chairwoman of PFA.
 
 "It is noticed that some news channels in Tamil Nadu have reported that the ordinance regarding jallikattu issued by the state government of Tamil Nadu has been challenged before the Supreme Court by People for Animals. It is hereby clarified that this news is not only false but mischievous. It is being spread by some channels to mislead and misguided the people of Tamil Nadu," the release said.
 
 "It may be noted by all concerned that no petition challenging the ordinance on jallikattu has been filed by People for Animals in the Supreme Court. All concerned are requested not to follow any rumours on this issue," the PFA statement said.
 
 Union minister of state for commerce and industry Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted that she spoke to Maneka Gandhi on the issue and clarified that the news of the latter approaching the Supreme Court was "baseless" and "untrue."
 
 "Spoke with Min @Manekagandhibjp. The news appearing in a few Tamizh TV channels about her approaching the SC to ban #jallikattu is baseless," she tweeted.
 
 "Spoken on phone to Min @Manekagandhibjp a few minutes ago. Informs me she hasn't approached SC to ban #jallikattu. News in TV channels untrue," read an earlier tweet by Sitharaman.
 
 Meanwhile, an Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) told TOI that the board members had not moved a specific resolution to challenge Tamil Nadu's jallikattu ordinance. However, they are "likely" to take action this week.
 
 AWBI board member and head of their legal sub-committee Anjali Sharma told TOI on Monday that "no specific resolution has been moved" yet, but the "likelihood [of taking steps to challenge the ordinance] is there" this week.
 
 Calls to People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India CEO Poorva Joshipura went unanswered. A PETA project coordinator said that PETA's spokespeople "are unavailable" as of now.
 
 
