PUNE:   of mangoes have dropped substantially this season in comparison to the same period last year, with   facing stiff competition from its `less juicy' counterparts from Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh.

 Sources said that Alphonso mangoes from other states are currently flooding the  , with wholesale prices being almost Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 less than last year. Retail prices have, meanwhile, come down by 25% to 50%, they said.
 
 Sanjay Pansare, who represents traders at the Vashi APMC's fruit market, said that retail prices of Ratnagiri Alphonso, both in Pune and Mumbai, have come down drastically. “The current retail price of Alphonso in both the markets has hit Rs 700 to Rs 1,500 per dozen, while last year it was Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 for the same quantity,“ Pansare said.
 
 Pansare said that wholesale prices of Ratnagiri's Alphonso's have crashed too.“This is because we have a lot of Alphonso stock coming in from Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Alphonso mangoes from these states are usually cheaper than Ratnagiri Alphonso, but lack the latter's flavour. Some retailers even pass off Kerala's Alphonsos as Devgad mangoes, which the consumer should be wary of,“ said Pansare.
 
 Mandar Desai of Desai Bandhu Ambewale, the fourth generation of mango growers in Ratnagiri, said that Ratnagiri's Alphonsos were sold at Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 in the retail market last year.
 
 “The price this year has come down to Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,800. We cut down the prices of Alphonso this season after considering the market senti ment following demonetization last year. We wanted to keep prices of the summer delicacy stable in an attempt to encourage consumers to buy mangoes,“ he said.
 
 Desai added that a glut of Alphonsos has begun to flow in from Kerala, but these lack the actual taste and flavour of the true `hapus'. “Kerala had a good crop this season and its Alphonso's are flowing into the Pune market. But they lack the real taste and are sold cheap. Some roadside retailers also pass off Kerala's Alphonso's as Devgad 'hapus' to gullible consumers. Consumers should therefore not fall for Alphonso mangoes being sold very cheap, because they invariably turn out to be those from other states and are not Ratnagiri,“ said Desai.
 
 Fruit commission agent Nathsaheb Parashram Khaire, of Parashram Laxman Khaire and Sons in Market Yard said, that a `peti' of Ratnagiri mangoes currently costs around Rs 1,500 to Rs 4,000 in the wholesale market, while last year, the price was Rs 2000-Rs 5000.
 
 “This year, wholesale prices of mangoes have dropped by Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 in comparison to the same period last year. We have started to get a big supply of Kerala Alphonsos this year, while there was no supply from that state last year. Hence, the drop in prices,“ said Khaire.
 
