HYDERABAD: The incessant rains that continued till the early hours of Thursday, brought normal life to a grinding halt in the low-lying areas of Malkajgiri, after the overflowing   water gushed into the localities leaving people stranded inside their homes for hours, without food, water or power supply. Barraged with SOS messages from hapless residents of the area, the authorities had to press into action teams from the National Disaster Response Force ( ) to rescue people and rehabilitate them in nearby shelters. They were temporarily accommodated at the Balaji function hall and Gajanand function hall, with help from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation.

 Unable to wade through the flooded lanes, NDRF personnel had to resort to boats to reach out to the locals. A total of 40,000 water packets and 1,000 food packets were distributed in the area on Thursday .
 
 “We have not been able to cook food in the last 24 hours as there is around three-feet of water in the house," said J L N Murty, president of Shirdi Nagar Colony in East Anandbagh sharing the plight of many others living in the area.
 
 Even locals came to the rescue of each other and helped people, living in precarious pockets, to get to safer places. “First we asked people living near the railway station to vacate as that was the first area to get inundated. Later we went to other colonies and saw that people who have more than one floor, accommodate their neighbours " said B T Srinivasan, general secretary , United Federation of Residents' Welfare Associations.
 
 Meanwhile, many families that vacated their premises on Wednesday -soon after the flooding began -stayed away from the area even on Thursday. These included people living in pockets such as Anandbagh Colony, NMDC Colony, Durga Nagar among others.
 
 “My room mate alerted me about the situation there and advised me to go to some other place. However, I am extremely worried as all my belongings including my bike, cash, clothes are in my room in Anand Bagh Colony" said Prakash, an engineering student from the area.
 
 
