GURGAON: The department of town and country planning ( ) has directed   to speed up work on various ongoing projects in Sectors 58-115 to improve infrastructure and civic amenities in New Gurgaon.

 DTCP principal secretary   on Saturday took stock of several ongoing projects in the city. Accompanied by senior officials of MCG, Huda and the district administration, Gupta began his recce from Delhi-Gurgaon border at Sirhaul near  , where an elevated U-turn is proposed to ensure people coming from Gurgaon can go to the mall and nearby areas without crossing the toll plaza.
 
 Gupta directed Huda officials to cooperate with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is supposed to build the U-turn. Later in the day, he inspected the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) and Dwarka Expressway.
 
 “The speedy completion of those infrastructure projects in new sectors will resolve many existing problems of the city,” Gutpa said, adding government agencies were making all efforts to complete those projects on time. Sources claimed that developers had already handed over possession of properties in a number of projects. But, for want of proper connectivity and civic facilities, people who have moved into their new houses are facing huge problems. Other flat owners are yet to move in.
 
 Also, Gupta asked officials to accelerate work on the railway over-bridge at Basai on Dwarka Expressway. The 1,200m-long over-bridge, coming up at the junction of sectors 100 and 37-D, will fill a crucial connectivity gap on the 18km Dwarka Expressway. 
 
 “One lane is expected to be ready soon while another lane will take a month or so to complete,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav.
 
 Huda has already removed encroachments, which were posing hurdles for the alignment of Sector 37C-37D road, and is now planning to connect these areas with the expressway through Gurgaon-Pataudi Road. It is also going to connect the expressway with Pataudi and Basai roads and other nearby sectors over the next few months. “It is likely to improve connectivity to, at least, 25 sectors on either side of the road,” he said.
 
 Yadav said the government had given its nod to move ahead with the work on Dwarka Expressway, instead of waiting for relief from Punjab and Haryana High Court. The HC had stayed allotment of alternative plots to GPA, SPA holders, virtually slamming brakes on the project. Sources said the stay was only on allotting alternative plots to people with GPA and SPA. Oustees, who do not come under the GPA, SPA categories, would be rehabilitated to remove their structures, paving the way for the e-way.
 
 
