CHENNAI: After a week of Occupy Marina, when the state promulgated an ordinance to ensure jallikattu, many thought it was a happy ending. It wasn’t. While the movement looked rudderless past its goalpost, the government’s secrecy over the ordinance added scepticism to ambiguity. The government decided to keep under wraps details of the Ordinance, which, according to rules, should be a public document.

 Perhaps this secrecy, coupled with the government’s attempt to rush through three biggest jallikattu events – Alanganallur, Paalamedu and Avaniapuram – made protesters suspect the strength of the state Ordinance and insist on a ‘permanent’ law on jallikattu.
 
 First things first. An Ordinance is a law which is as good or bad as the so-called ‘permanent’ law. Protesters might have believed a permanent law means the one enacted by assembly and notified with rules thereafter. An Ordinance holds good for six months, with same vigour of a law. Will such a law mean uninterrupted conduct of jallikattu in future? No. Not just this Ordinance/law, every enactment of the Parliament and assemblies is amenable to judicial review and must stand judicial scrutiny.
 
 So, is the Tamil Nadu government’s Ordinance good enough? While its details are still a ‘state secret’, one has to look if three aspects have been taken care of.
 
 Section 2 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 defines a domestic animal, which is tamed or semi-tamed. It has to be seen if this has been amended to specifically include bulls. Section 11 talks about people’s right to use animals for performance. It has exemptions -- dehorning, castration, branding and nose-roping of any animal is not cruelty. We have to see if the present Ordinance mentions a couple of things involving bulls/jallikattu also. It was inclusion of bulls in a list of animals under this Section in 2011 which led to blanket ban of jallikattu in 2014.
 
 Experts point out a glaring error in it. Section 11 talks about animals which are used for performance where money is received for admission. In short, it refers to a circus-like paid event and not to a religious or cultural event like jallikattu where no gate fee is charged. In spite of this, the sport remained a banned activity from 2014 to January 21, 2017.
 
 Section 27 permits animals like horses and dogs to be used for police and military purposes. Horses are kept in these two forces only for show and game purposes, experts point out, adding that bulls too should be clubbed with them since jallikattu is a show, though rights activists would differ.
 
 Section 28 is about animal killing for religious purpose and inclusion of bull sport in this too would insulate it from cruelty charges.
 
 However, had the Centre wanted to do it in its own way it could have comprehensively amended the central Act and stashed it away in Ninth Schedule of the Constitution so that it would remain away from judicial review. Though, in 2007, the apex court held that no such blanket immunity for laws was permissible, the Centre’s power to invoke this privilege remained untouched because it had not been challenged.
 
 The Marina protesters would have made better sense had they sought a central amendment with immunity from judicial review. Instead, they keep harping on a ‘permanent’ law for jallikattu without being clear as to what was ‘permanent’ according to them.
 
 
