Nagpur: Prime Minister Narendra Modi stresses on ‘Green India’ and wants green initiatives to be highlighted, but his visit to the city has become the reason for brutal trimming of hundreds of age-old trees.

 Citing safety and security issues, Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) garden department is heavily trimming branches of trees on the PM’s route in Nagpur, a move expected to affect at least 500 fully-grown trees.
 
 A letter by NMC’s garden department says branches projecting towards the road on the convoy route will be chopped before April 13. According to officials of garden department, this is being done from safety point of view as the branches should not fall. “The convoy will move in two lanes and hence the over-hanging branches should not come in the way or cause any obstruction,” they said.
 
 Environmentalists have, however, questioned why authorities feel the necessity only now, when thousands of commuters are using the stretch every day safely. “Do the branches pose danger only to the Prime Minister? Does this mean trees will be trimmed wherever he is going all across the country?” asked Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of Green Vigil Foundation.
 
 NMC garden superintendent Sudhir Mate said that only light trimming is being done under the supervision of garden inspectors. “The contractor has been instructed to trim only branches that pose a danger,” he added. But photographs sent by green activist Surbhi Jaiswal show that branches are being trimmed heavily at many places. 
 
 NMC should have conducted a scientific study before causing such huge loss to the city’s green cover, Chatterjee said. “It is OK if a survey is done and a few branches, which are really at a risk of falling, are cut. But branches of all trees are being chopped,” he added.
 
 Heavy trimming of branches not just causes environmental damage but also increases the risk of trees getting uprooted. “The centre of gravity of trees gets disturbed as it causes an imbalance. In case of heavy winds, the trees can be easily uprooted,” Chatterjee said. 
 
 Stating that unnecessary havoc has been created, green activist Shrikant Deshpande said that heavy trimming can also stunt the tree’s growth and reduce its life. “In summers, trees are already struggling due to loss of water. Chopping branches will further deteriorate their growth,” he said, adding that the problem would not arise if regular light trimming is done. 
 
 Earlier, in 2011, huge branches of 25-30 neem trees were cut to ensure security for President Pratibha Patil near Achalpur during her visit to Amravati. The then Rashtrapati Bhavan spokesperson and officer on special duty (public relations) had told TOI there were no orders from Rashtrapati Bhavan to chop or trim trees for presidential visits.
 
 
