NEW DELHI: The   have taken up a de-congestion drive at five stretches — including Aurobindo Marg, Mathura  , stretch near Savitri cinema hall in south Delhi, Dhaula Kuan and Kashmere Gate ISBT — on a pilot basis. These will then be used as models for 28 more stretches identified for decongestion.

 The plan involves removal of trees and encroachments obstructing the way and relaying asphalt to ensure smoother movement of vehicles. The plan was finalised during a meeting between a special task force and lieutenant governor  .
 
 The civic bodies have also proposed reviving the underpass connecting AIIMS and Safdarjung hospital to clear the roads of jaywalkers.
 
 In the first phase, 23 trees will be removed from Aurobindo Marg. “We have requested the civic body to hire an agency to lift the trees from their roots and plant them elsewhere. We are against cutting of trees for road  ,” said special commissioner (traffic) Ajay Kashyap.
 
 The police have also identified over 30 points where encroachments can be removed to make the road wider. Aurobindo Marg caters to more than 50,000 vehicles daily. Illegal parking along Gautam Nagar will also be removed.
 
 To decongest Kashmere Gate ISBT, police have proposed that interstate buses be stopped at   or Bhalswa Dairy. A proposal has also been made to remove encroachments on the road going towards Hanuman Mandir and extending the foot overbridge near the ISBT to land inside the terminus instead of the footpath outside. This will ensure that pedestrians don’t walk on the road.
 
 On the Savitri Cinema stretch, police have proposed removal of Metro barricades. They have asked DMRC to conduct a survey and ensure that the areas where construction is complete is free from encroachments.
 
 PWD will be responsible for road widening, strengthening the road infrastructure, providing facilities (underpass and foot overbridges) for pedestrian movement and removing hurdles, like trees, that block traffic movement. The civic agencies and police will remove encroachments.
 
 Surveys will be conducted on Dhaula Kuan and Mathura Road to identify bottlenecks soon.
 
