NEW DELHI: Resurrecting the   ghost, a recently declassified CIA report said Sweden stopped investigations into alleged bribery in the howitzer deal in 1988 to spare former PM   from embarrassment. This happened after Rajiv visited Stockholm that year. That payoff scandal had cost him his government.

 The CIA in its secret 1988 report, titled ‘Sweden’s Bofors Arms Scandal’ said Stockholm had “called off the investigation of  , probably in an effort to prevent future revelations of bri- bes to Indian officials that cou- ld embarrass PM Gandhi”.
 
 “Following the national audit, Swedish police launched a separate investigation into Bofors bribery, which would have been illegal if payments were made to foreign officials. This investigation was terminated in late January 1988, following a trip by Indian PM Gandhi to Stockholm,” the report said. “Sweden claimed inability to track the payments through Swiss bank accounts after making a half-hearted request for Swiss assistance,” it added.
 
 The report listed the various allegations against Bofors, saying the company allegedly bribed Indian middlemen and officials in connection with New Delhi’s purcha- se of 155mm howitzers. The agency concluded the payments had indeed been made by Bofors officials — “either straight to Indian officials, or to middlemen who in turn pa- id off officials — to secure the $1.2 billion sale of howitzers”.
 
 “Word of the payoffs leaked, sparking domestic difficulties for Indian PM Rajiv Gandhi. Stockholm wanted to save Gandhi the troubles cau- sed him by the Swedish leak, and Nobel Industries wanted to avoid a bribery indictment. The two sides cooperated, therefore, on a scheme to keep details of the payment secret. Stockholm eventually called off the entire bribery investigation,” the CIA report said.
 
 In addition, the report said other incidents may be related to the Bofors scandal. War material inspector Carl Algernon, the customs official responsible for monitoring arms exports, died after being struck by a subway train in January 1987. He had just met (30 minutes earlier) with Anders Carlberg, head of Bofors’ parent company Nobel Industries. Algernon was a friend of Bofors directors Claes-Erik Winberg and Martin Ardbo. 
 
 The report said the police suspected suicide but murder was a possibility. Media speculation later said Algernon was killed because he threatened to expose the illegal activities of Swedish arms manufacturers. In 1987, media speculated that then PM Olof Palme was assassinated by an Iranian in retaliation to his alleged suspension of an arms shipment to Tehran.
 
 
 
