KOLKATA: The city might have logged a 4%   for the second year, but it fared better when it came to   in other  , revealed the latest   data. 

 While both Mumbai and Delhi witnessed more than 5,000 accidental deaths, Kolkata managed to keep the fatal count restricted to 796, on road and railways together. The   document on accidents in 2015 revealed Kolkata’s effort to curb accidents was beginning to show, as was evident from the fact that 4,981 cases were reported from here, compared to 7,328 in Chennai, 7,148 in Delhi and 5,001 in Bengaluru. Even the fatal cases slightly dropped from 431 in 2014 to 421 the next year. But the police should be worried about the jump in collisions due to drink driving, which added up to 596. Compared to that, Delhi saw 115 drink driving accidents and Mumbai 37. Dangerous driving on roads here led to 2,771 accidents and 894 cases were owing to speeding. 
 
 Certain areas remain a concern for the Kolkata Police. Unlike Mumbai, Chennai and Hyderabad, where most accidents took place from 3pm to 9 pm, Kolkata registered maximum collisions after the rush hours, when trucks are allowed to enter the city after 10pm. There were 856 accidents between 9pm and midnight and another 363 between midnight and 3am. It is not without reasons that officials said trucks were one of the biggest killers on the roads, after buses. Trucks were involved in 78 crashes, buses in 80. “Trucks are being regulated and we are deploying more men at important entry points at night. More awareness campaigns for bus drivers will be held,” said DC (traffic) Solomon V Nesakumar.
 
 The cops are also worried that Kolkata witnessed most accidents at pedestrian crossings, where 192 cases were registered in 2015; of even greater concern is the rising number of collisions near educational institutions, with the city registering 61 such cases, while Delhi logged 29 and Mumbai 15. Most victims were those on foot or riding two-wheelers or bicycles. 
 
  Kolkata’s most accident-prone month was October, the festive season, followed by June and December. 
 
 Researchers from  , Amit Ghosh and Suman Paul, concluded on their paper on accidents in Kolkata that the pedestrians are the largest victim group of fatalities and injuries. “They are at risk even at zebra crossings. The increasing vulnerability of pedestrians is largely due to the conflict between them and vehicles, speeding, careless driving and poor road visibility. These accident problems can be minimized by installing good signal system, preventing u-turns, eliminating irregular stopping of autos and installing dividers...” the paper said.
 
 
