The Supreme Court’s order that no liquor vend can operate within 500m of national and state highways starting April 1 has spelt doom for Delhi and  . On Saturday, most restaurant, pubs and even luxury hotels that could fall within the said area were not serving alcohol. With their future uncertain, there is little that restaurateurs can do except wait for the Excise Department to draw up the final list of places that fall within 500m of highways. But in an effort to save their businesses, an online petition has been started and been signed by over 4,000 people within 24 hours.

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The petition, #Save Nightlife, was started by Ishan Grover, a Gurgaon resident and consultant with microbreweries, and will be sent to the president and the PM. The petition says, "Our Honourable   has banned serving of liquor in restaurants and bars located within  . This is done to reduce the accidents caused due to drinking and driving. Noble thought. However, as a result of this ruling, at the stroke of the midnight 70% of the FnB industry, which includes hotels, restaurants and bars will not be serving alcohol, since they all fall under 500m. No matter how noble these intentions are, the truth is the move is not well thought out, and it does absolutely nothing to promote safety and discourage drunk driving. Instead, lakhs of employees will be out of jobs and hundreds of crores of investment is washed down the drain."
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Restaurateur  , who has signed the petition, says, “All I can say is that since the intention of this move is to curb drunken driving, restaurants never encouraged that. We don’t even allow people to carry liquor outside from the restaurant. There is a lot of investment and hard work that goes into running a restaurant. We are hoping that Cyber Hub will not come within 500m of a highway, but still, many employees in the sector elsewhere will lose their jobs, and not just in NCR, but also cities like Mumbai.” Dealing with a major dip in business, restaurateurs are also requesting people to not jump to conclusions before written orders from the Excise Department arrive. "A committee from Excise is measuring distances. We have been told not to serve liquor till the process is complete. Restaurants are not like tin-shed thekas that can be shut in a day," says  , honorary secretary of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI).
 
 
 
 
