Kolkata: Flying through Kolkata  ? Travel light and carry a strolley. If you have multiple luggage without wheels, be prepared to lug them till the terminal building because baggage trolleys will remain in short supply for another four to six months. 

 Kolkata airport director Atul Dikshit on Friday said the city’s tryst with trolley trouble will persist for months following the suspension of a tender to procure 3,000 trolleys after it encountered a legal complication. “We were about to award the contract when a legal issue cropped up. The matter is being scrutinized by the legal department in Delhi. Once we get the nod, a fresh tender may have to be floated. That will take at least four months,” he said.
 
 On Thursday, fliers arriving from Bangkok were unable to find trolleys. Airport officials blamed the contractor appointed to run the service of mismanagement, but the latter argued it was impossible to make do with the 1,500-odd trolleys in service when 700-800 passengers were transiting the airport every hour. 
 
 “The passenger count has gone up from 9 lakh to 15 lakh in two years. But the number of trolleys has gone down from 3,200 to 1,500. As trolleys get damaged, the number will reduce further. AAI was supposed to induct more trolleys but there’s no certainty when they will arrive. Till that happens, the crisis will crop up now and again because it is not physically possible to continually retrieve the trolleys,” said Shashi Chowdhury of Century Ventures, the company that has the contract to retrieve the trolleys. Frustrated with the situation, Chowdhury said he was thinking about giving up the contract. 
 
 AAI officials admit the trolley count was an issue, but argued that the larger problem was to discipline the unionised staff that refuse to promptly retrieve the trolleys. 
 
 “Many a times, the ele-ctric tugs used to push the trolleys don’t function because they are not charged,” an official said.
 
 While the two sides traded charges, passengers continued to suffer. Rajesh Agarwal, who arrived on Thursday with his family and had to drag three suitcases, questioned why fliers should bear the brunt of red tape in an airport operated by state-owned AAI when other most other metro airports managed by private parties have no such problems. 
 
 
