HYDERABAD: With Virat Kohli and his men in such imperious form, there was no respite for the opposition on the opening day of the one-off Test. It must have been some respite for the Indian captain, though, that he finally called it right after losing the toss in Rajkot, Mohali, Mumbai and Chennai. The hosts promptly asserted their superiority in no uncertain terms.

 The green cover at the Rajiv Gandhi International stadium did not mislead the Indian captain, and his top order -barring KL Rahul, who chopped Taskin Ahmed on to his stumps early on Thursday -was not the kind to waste this opportunity, given the kind of touch and confidence they are in after having attained the No.1 Test rank.
 
  set the tone with his 108 (160b, 12x4, 6x1), his ninth hundred.   (83; 205m, 177b, 9x4) missed what could have been his 11th. Kohli completed 1000 runs at home this season during the course of his 16th ton, an unbeaten 111 (161m, 141b, 12x4). Between the Kanpur Test against New Zealand and here, the Indian captain has scored 964 runs.Ajinkya Rahane too showed no sign of rust on his return from an injury layoff as India finished the day at an impos ing 356 for three.
 
 With eight century partnerships in 36 innings, Vijay and Pujara felt quite at home here during their fifth such partnership since the Kanpur Test.The duo has fond memories of this ground, having scored 167 and 203 respectively against Australia. The Bangladesh attack was cannon fodder for the duo. They seem to revel in each others' company .
 
 Stroke for stroke, Vijay was the more elegant, but there's no discounting Pujara's indus try. Apart from a heart-stopping moment for Vijay when on 35 he survived a run-out chance with both batsmen a handshake away at the striker's end, they hardly put a foot wrong in their 178-run partnership for the second wicket (303b). Pujara, who with 1605 runs broke Chandu Borde's record for most runs in an Indian first-class season, succumbed to a thick edge off Mehedi Hasan, which skipper   pouched off a rebound.
 
 That was against the run of play as Vijay forged a 54run partnership with his skipper, who was in sublime touch at the other end. The session between lunch and tea saw India add 130 runs in 31 overs, but for Bangladesh it was yet to unravel when Vijay got too cute trying to sweep Taijul Islam. The left-arm spinner's decision to review a Marais Erasmus verdict seemed to have spurred the Indian captain, who went on to unleash a barrage of strokes, seemingly at will.
 
 Reduced to mere bowling machines under Kohli's onslaught, the Bangladesh attack wilted even as the sparse crowd savoured every moment of the Indian captain's rollicking innings and the unbroken fourth-wicket stand of 122 runs he forged with Rahane.
 
 The second new ball was the last throw of dice for the Bangladesh skipper, but if anything, it only enhanced the flow of runs. The Kohli-Rahane duo toyed with the hapless Bangla attack, conceding 65 runs in nine overs after the second new ball was taken in the 82nd over.
 
 The spin trio of Mehedi, Shakib and Taijul ­ the Indians fielded three pacers and two spinners in contrast -shouldered the burden of carrying the Bangla attack on a day when the seamers, barring the fortuitous wicket of Rahul, were ineffective. If the manner in which the Indian top order dominated the proceedings is any indication, Bangladesh still have a lot of hard yards to put in to make a match of it, let alone match the world's top team.
 
 
