NEW DELHI: The traffic 'rush hour' extends from 8am to 8pm on arterial roads of Delhi, with average speeds not exceeding 30 kmph 92% of the time, reveals a Centre for Science and Environment study that analysed   Maps data for last month.

 Surprisingly , the study also found that traffic congestion was higher during weekends when average peak speed dropped to 25 kmph.
 
 On weekdays, the average speed was 26 kmph, which was 50 to 60% lower than traffic regulator UTTIPEC's street design standard speed, and 35 to 48% lower than the regulated speed of 40-50 kmph. The study, which has implications for pollution control, analysed hourly and daily travel speeds on 13 arterial stretches taken from Google Maps through the month of June. Debunking the `myth' of a sharp dip in vehicle numbers during offpeak hours, particularly between noon to 4pm, the study found there was negligible variation in average speed through the 12-hour period.The average morning and evening peak speeds were 28 and 25 kmph, respectively , while the off-peak speed was found to be 27 kmph.
 
 Even this dropped to 8 kmph on   and 9 kmph on Mehrauli-Badarpur road during peak hours. Evening peaks were worse during weekends, when speeds dipped to 21-23 kmph from 25-27 kmph on working days. This could be due to a higher use of personal vehicles over weekends.
 
 The study says average peak-hour speeds in the  ' zone were far higher at 44 kmph. The average off-peak speed in the zone was 52 kmph, almost double compared to other arterial roads.
 
 Several chronically congested stretches were identified in the study. For instance, on the Ambedkar Nagar to   stretch on Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg, the average morning and evening peak speeds were 16 and 17 kmph, respectively. The average speed on Sri Aurobindo Marg (from Lado Sarai to  ) was found to be only 19 kmph.
 
 "Delhi will run to a standstill. This is an inevitable consequence of explosive and unrestrained vehicle numbers that crossed 10 million in 2017," said   , executive director at CSE.
 
 "The traffic numbers are further inflated by daily influx of vehicles from outside Delhi. With a further drop in car prices under GST, the congestion will only grow," she said. Currently, congestion on Delhi roads is growing at the rate of 7% annually. "About 537 cars and 1,158 two-wheelers are added every day. If strategies to curb motorisa tion and reverse this trend aren't implemented, it will become increasingly more difficult to reduce toxic exposure to air pollution," Roy Chowdhury said.
 
 Arterial roads to NCR cities are more congested. For example, Sri Aurobindo Marg connecting Gurgaon via NH 8 has an average speed of 24 kmph which often dropped to 7 kmph during evening peak hours. The average speed on Outer Ring RoadGhaziabad via NH9 was 27 kmhr.
 
 CSE researchers said there is a clear link between higher nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels and dropping traffic speeds. CPCB's real time monitoring data for NO2 from Anand Vihar, R K Puram, Mandir Marg and Punjabi Bagh shows that when the average morning peak speed of 28 kmph drops to 25 in the evening, NO2 levels increase from 68 micrograms per cubic metre to 94 -a rise of 38%.
 
