CHENNAI: The   case has triggered animated discussion among legal fraternity, which is divided on legality of the arrest of startup venture's CEO on 'cheating and intimidation' charges arising out of unpaid dues to a Chennai-based advertising company. Assuming it is a criminal offence, is the arrest of the entrepreneur necessary at all?

 The   ( ) personnel in Chennai had arrested Stayzilla CEO   on a complaint from   over dues running up to Rs 1.72 crore. While the money transaction and the alleged deficiency in service by the advertising company were purely civil in nature, the basis of the ar rest was two add-on charges - cheating and criminal intimidation.
 
 Not just the startup world, even jurists are not fully convinced with the treatment meted out to the entrepreneur.
 
 Senior advocate and former additional solicitor-general of India P Wilson said: "The practice of civil transactions being given a cloak of criminal offence has been specifically decried by   in umpteen cases. This FIR could be quashed without even waiting for investigation to get underway and chargesheet being filed."
 
 The amended Code of Criminal Procedure and a Supreme Court's verdict of 2014 mandate that if an alleged offence carries less than seven years as maximum punishment, then the arrest should be avoided, said criminal lawyer R C Paul Kanagaraj. 
 
 Section 41-A of CrPC says a police officer requires a 'reasonable complaint' and 'credible information' to issue notice asking the suspect to appear before him for inquiry, said lawyer  . "If he complies with notice and continues to comply with the notice, he shall not be arrested in respect of the offence," he pointed out, adding that the officer concerned must record reasons if he still wanted to arrest the suspect.
 
 The magistrate, on his part, must read the reasons, apply his mind, and remand him in custody only if his judicial mind is convinced, Raghavachari said.
 
 Referring to Stayzilla controversy, Raghavachari said in normal course the advertising agency or a similarly-placed complainant has to approach a civil court with a money suit for recovery of dues. It shall also pay about 7% of the disputed amount as court fee. While a money suit takes about two years for fruition, police action is instantaneous, he said.
 
 "Police convert a civil dispute into a criminal offence or vice versa, depending on the circumstance. By smartly introducing such words as 'intention to cheat' or 'criminally intimidated' police make a regulation civil dispute appear like a criminal offence, and remanding magistrates fall for it," said Paul Kanagaraj."Higher judiciary must deprecate this practice, as it also means direct revenue loss to the government," he said.
 
 The high courts of Madras, Bombay and Delhi have on more than one occasion rued that crafty lenders always managed to reduce police and courts to act as 'recovery agents' by adding a tinge of criminality to pure civil business transactions.
 
 Bombay high court had said: "Nowadays, a disturbing trend has emerged where civil disputes are sought to be converted into criminal disputes. Police and criminal courts are sought to be reduced to recovery agents."
 
 M  , national chairman of   (AIAJ), wondered what prevented Stayzilla honchos from approaching courts for anticipatory bail. "Instead of staying in talks with police officials, as disclosed by the arrested CEO, they could have moved an anticipatory bail plea. For cases showing cheating and intimidation as charges, anticipatory bail is granted quite routinely," he said.
 
