NEW DELHI: India has begun the process of dismantling some of the last remaining controls in the foreign direct investment (FDI) framework.
 
  The department of economic affairs (DEA) has floated a draft Cabinet note for inter-ministerial consultation to scrap the   ( ), in line with a plan announced by finance minister Arun Jaitley in his February 1budget, said a senior government official.
  
  The note also proposes that all foreign investment in sectors that require prior approval will be the responsibility of the relevant administrative ministry, department or regulator, avoiding the need for multiple clearances.
  
  For businesses that require licences such as insurance, defence manufacturing or broadcast, separate vetting won’t be carried out once a foreign investor gets a licence.
  
  The proposal may be taken up by the Cabinet by April to ensure speedy rollout, the official said. The DEA note also prescribes a deadline up to which proposals would be received by the board and handheld before ministries take over.
  
  The Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, however, favours handing over proposals immediately to ministries and departments. Another senior government official told ET that the move will be taken forward soon after the group of officers set up to work out the details submits its report.
  
  DIPP has administrative responsibility for the foreign direct investment policy while the department of economic affairs houses the FIPB and also administers the Foreign Exchange Management Act along with the Reserve Bank. Legacy issues could also be handed over to respective departments, said the first official cited.
  
  “We have now reached a stage where FIPB can be phased out,” Jaitley said in his budget speech. “We have therefore decided to abolish the FIPB in 2017-18.” A road map will be announced in the next few months, he had said.
  
  
 
  The government has been steadily liberalising the FDI regime over the last two years by raising caps or removing them altogether to attract foreign capital to the country. More than 90% of the total FDI inflows is now through the automatic route without the need for government approval.
  
  FDI inflows rose 22% to $35.8 billion in the nine months to December from the year-earlier period. The government is keen to ensure that the transition to the new regime is free of hiccups and is likely to announce a detailed transition framework.
  
  Experts said that the government should ensure that approvals under the new regime remain expeditious.
  
  The shift should be a smooth one. “FDI policy has been substantially liberalised over the years and now very few sectors are under FIPB approval route. Hence, the phasing out will impact limited situations,” said Akash Gupt, partner, PwC. “Unless the balance sectors are also put under automatic route, it would be important to ensure that the new approval mechanism is transparent, investor friendly and above all speedy.”
