PANAJI: The directorate of archives and archaeology’s (DAA) project for a road to   has received a setback, as   ( ) has issued an order to immediately stop the illegal work. 

 Excavation on the south-eastern slope of the hill, crowned by the beautiful structure of the 16thcentury Chapora fort, had evoked protests from villagers and heritage lovers, as a 380-metre stretch had been dug up for the road.
 
 Tourists and others climb to the fort on foot along a path stretching up from its base. The iconic Chapora Fort existed prior to the arrival of the Portuguese and had been taken over by different rulers several times. A string of movies have been shot here at the fort, which was rebuilt in 1717.
 
 “The alleged illegal construction is being carried out within coastal regulation zone limits (CRZ) limits, which appears to be highly detrimental to the coastal ecosystem and the riverine ecosystem,” GCZMA stated in its notice.
 
 Sagardeep Sirsaikar, a resident of Anjuna, had filed a complaint with GCZMA, alleging that the illegal hill cutting and development of a road near the fort was being done in property under survey no 356/9 at Chapora, Anjuna, in blatant violation of CRZ notification 2011 and its rules.
 
 “The contractor had cleared local fruit-bearing trees, such as kanttam and chun’nam, which are slowly becoming rare. The road itself may be harmful to the monument due to the easy access it provides,” a villager said.
 
 Sirsaikar, who had also filed another complaint before national green tribunal (NGT) against a hotel project, said that it would serve the purpose better if the area remained untouched.
 
 A DAA official said that the construction of the road had been entrusted to public works department (PWD). The Chapora fort is due for repairs, but a tender floated by DAA recently had no takers.
 
 “A minimal cutting of the hill has been done for the road, as no contractor is willing to accept the tender due to difficulty in carrying materials for conservation of the fort,” the official said.
 
 The notice issued by GCZMA has sought an explanation from DAA as to why the department should not be issued an order to restore the damaged hillside to its original condition. “The digging activity has been carried out badly,” Sirsaikar said.
 
