PUNE: Around 3.10 lakh students have applied for the 1.33 lakh seats in the Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) in the state till July 8.

 The Centralised Admission Process (CAP) for ITIs across the state began on June 19. The official website, http://admission.dvet.gov.in/, was made active the same day.
 
 “There will be five rounds of the admission process, which will end on August 31,” the directorate of vocational education and training (DVET) has announced.
 
 C A Ninale, joint director of Pune, DVET said, “Times have changed now. A seat at an ITI is much sought after. Scores of candidates, including 90 percenters, are choosing ITIs.”
 
 Data shows that top scorers who would traditionally not even consider joining an ITI are now aspiring for a seat. Last year, about 2,000 students who scored over 80% in standard X joined ITIs.
 
 Although a majority of those who sign up to join ITIs still come from the 50-60% bracket, new dynamics in registrations are seen every year.
 
 “The curriculum has altered, courses have been modernized and placements are in full swing. Industries want to recruit students passing out of ITIs. So there is ample job opportunity,” Ninale said.
 
 Over the last few years, some professions like electrician, architectural draughtsman, furniture and cabinet-maker, surveyor, and fitter, have recorded full capacity. Across 417 government and 496 private institutes in  , there is an overall increase in demand for ITI courses.
 
 The ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship has taken keen interest in developing ITIs across the country, as a result of which many institutes have introduced new trades this year.
 
 Realising that skill development is key to employability and economic growth, technical institutes across the state have taken it as a mission to promote vocational trades.
 
 Each tehsil and many rural, tribal and remote areas have technical training institutes, which could benefit the students there, he said. “Our main focus is on rural students,” he added.
 
