Cuttack: The two goals from Juan Quero Barraso on Wednesday injected a fresh dose of optimism not just into his team   but also into their Friday opponents. DSK Shivajians’ vital three points from the match put them on same number of points with Bengaluru FC, albeit with a goal difference of -2 compared to BFC’s -1, and made them a strong contenders for the second semifinal spot on offer from Group B. It has also given  , who lost both their group matches, a reason to go all out for a win when they take on Shivajians in the early kickoff at Barabati Stadium here.

 “We know that we do have an outside chance of qualifying for the semifinals,” Lajong coach   said on Thursday. “Although that will depend on a lot of other factors, we would at least like to go out of the tournament with a victory.”
 
 With Mohun Bagan already in the semis, Friday’s late match will be must-win for Bengaluru FC. But if they lose, the result of the Lajong versus Shivajians tie could decide the second semifinalist.
 
 “We know we can qualify if we win against Lajong by a good margin, irrespective of the outcome of the Bagan-BFC game,” Shivajians coach   said. “As we showed against Bengaluru, this is a squad of players with a lot of desire, energy, experience and enthusiasm. They’ve had a bad season but they are ready to change that.”
 
 Rogers was ecstatic that his tactics against Albert Roca’s boys worked so well and the icing on the cake was the fact that they did it with six U-22 academy players, who had been training under the Englishman’s watchful eyes for the last three years. But on Friday, his team will be facing a club that also banks on its bunch of youngsters. 
 
 However, Lajong have been a shadow of the team that narrowly missed a top-four I-League finish. They have scored four times in their two matches here but also conceded six goals. “Conceding has been a bane for us throughout the season,” acknowledged Singto. Lajong will also have the additional disadvantage of losing I-League top-scorer Aser Dipanda Dicka and skipper Nimdorjee Tamang to injury.
 
 Rogers has no such problem. Although he is sure to rotate his squad of 24 to keep the players injury free, he will have the experience of Quero, Shane Mc Faul and Subrata Paul to guide the youngsters on the pitch. “I know Paul was disappointed on missing the first match. But I wanted to give him some time to get past the off-field attention that he has had endured in the last few days,” Rogers revealed. 
 
 He was clearly right in doing that as his skipper proved to be a pillar of support against BFC. Now, it is time to wait and see if his wards can match their performance against BFC in this crucial clash.
 
 
