CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation may think global when it comes to the city’s infrastructure, but to replenish Chennai’s lost green cover it has decided to go local. The civic body is set to reduce the dominance of exotic species on the city’s floral landscape by planting native varieties.

 If the plan clicks, roads and streets will over time be canopied by species like peimiratti, nettilingam, thumbika and aanai kundumani among others.
 
 The project, aimed at improving the city’s green cover after Vardah, involves planting more than 30,000 saplings within a six-month period. Care Earth Trust, consultant for the project, has prepared an inventory stage report listing 76 species. Discussion on the report was held last week with corporation officials expecting a detailed project report within two months.
 
 According to S Balaji, former principal chief conservator of forests and lead botanist in the study done by Care Earth Trust, the species identified are native to Chennai, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts. “We have avoided trees with shallow roots. Most of
 
  the species we have identified will develop deep roots and provide better anchorage,” Balaji said. 
 
 However, the inventory report does not list native species alone. Sources said senior officials wanted the inclusion of several exotic varieties to complement the city’s visual appeal.
 
 According to Balaji, his team is still identifying plantation sites. However, constraints have already cropped up. “There is very little space left on city roads for planting trees due to civic infrastructure,” he said.
 
 Corporation officials said core areas presented a problem as there were very few roads without a storm water drain infrastructure. “The problem with storm water drains in the city is that it is a rectangular concrete box. Due to encroachments and footpaths, there is very little space remaining to plant a tree,” said an official. “What we plant should also not affect the carriageway,” Balaji said.
 
 Former mayor Saidai S   said altering the storm water drain design could help tide over the crisis. “The floor of the drain need not be made of concrete. Rain water is meant to be absorbed by the ground. Cavities along such a design can also be used to plant trees,” he said.
 
 A secondary solution, according to corporation officials, was prioritising increasing the green cover in the extended areas. “Sholinganallur in the south and Thiruvottiyur and Manali in the north have vast plots of land that can be taken up for afforestation,” an official said. T Nagar could also be a beneficiary of
 
 the project as the civic body will redevelop eight parks under Smart Cities mission and could plant more trees in them.
 
 But to make the programme a success, the corporation has to keep the saplings alive. “There is no care administered to saplings. The first two or three years are crucial to a plant’s survival. This is why most trees the corporation plants do not survive,” Duraisamy said.
 
