NAGPUR: In a bid to curb excessive use of internet and dropping attendance rates,   ( ) reportedly shut the service in hostels last month, sources said. Officials have admitted there was interruption in services, but denied that it was a disciplinary or preventive measure. However, the health centre also said they have held   to help some students overcome addiction to internet and social networking.

 The institute already has a policy of not providing internet to first-year students in the hostel. Sources said this has been done to ensure first-year students don’t remain confined to hostel rooms, and also socialize on the campus. Sources in the hostels said recently the internet speed has slowed, and before that there was no service for some time.
 
 Manish Kurhekar, associate dean (IT), admitted that internet service was affected on the campus for a couple of days in the third and fourth week of January. However, he denied that there was any blackout. “Upgradation of firewall was underway recently, so there was no internet connectivity. While doing this, more issues came to fore since our system evolved over 10 years. The new firewall detected that layout of internal network was not uniform and filtering (of banned sites) was not proper,” Kurhekar said.
 
 He added that during the day academic portion of the campus gets “more priority” since most people, including students, are in departments, while rejecting the idea that curbs have been put in place to check excessive use. Kurhekar also said the new system does not allow transparent proxy, which help users to visit banned or prohibited sites over networks.
 
 VB Borghate, dean (students’ welfare) did not respond to TOI calls. Yogesh Deshpande, associate professor, humanities department, who is in charge of media relations, said, “Internet is being provided with a rider that students would use it only after classes in the evening.”
 
 A student counsellor at the campus’ health centre confirmed that they have been holding Rational Emotive Behaviour Therapy (REBT) sessions for some students showing symptoms of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) arising from excessive internet use.
 
 “Some students came voluntarily while others with OCD symptoms were referred by teachers, who first noticed changes in students’ behaviour pattern. It was observed that students addicted to internet and social networking were distracted, showing no interest in anything, and were unable to memorize and concentrate. They were finding it difficult to sit for an hour or two at one place to complete assignments,” sources in VNIT said.
 
 In the therapy, sessions were held to make students realize the fault. “After that, logical thinking develops and there’s a change in behaviour. This is done by preparing worksheets.” 
 
