Mumbai: India lags behind Asian markets like China and Hong Kong on certain board   parameters, despite the best of efforts to bring more women on boards of companies. An Egon Zehnder (EZ) report for 2016 — exclusive to TOI — reveals that India’s numbers are lower when it comes to new women board member appointments, women executive directors and  .

 In 2016, new women board member appointments in India stood at 11% of total hires in 2016, as against 14.5% for new male directors. This is lower than the global overall average of 17% women. In other Asian markets like Hong Kong and Malaysia, the same was 16.4% and 27.3%, respectively.
 
 While the compulsion of maintaining one woman director on every listed company board could have helped more women get board positions, the EZ report shows that not many   in India have management responsibilities. In India, only nine women were executive directors (EDs) in 2016, as against 124 men EDs. The percentage of women EDs in India was just 6.8%. Women non-executive directors (NEDs), on the other hand, were 46 as against 272 men NEDs. The percentage of women NEDs is, thus, higher at 14.5%.
 
 As compared to this, in Hong Kong, women EDs were 26, as compared to men EDs at 224, with the percentage of women EDs at 10.4%. Women NEDs, on the other hand, were 58, while men NEDs were 405, with the percentage of women NEDs at 12.5%. In China, the percentage of women EDs was 6.3%, while women NEDs was higher at 11%.
 
 Pallavi Kathuria, co-leader of diversity and inclusion practice at EZ, said, “Despite social and economic progress in other areas of the business world, diversity at the leadership level, particularly in the boardroom, has not kept pace. Data from the global board diversity analysis and EZ’s experiences have shown that, as women start making their voice heard and encourage the development of other women leaders, it is likely that companies will continue increasing female presence on boards.”
 
 Falguni Nayar, founder & CEO, Nykaa, who is on the boards of a few companies in India, said, “My personal experience is that hard work achieves anything. I’ve always maintained that I’ve never had any experience of a glass ceiling. To get to where they want to be, women need to lean in. We need to develop abilities to be able to take on the dual responsibilities of career and home. In most cases, this involves increasing risk appetite and pushing oneself forward.”
 
 Nayar said men are comfortable with being on several boards, while women were more conservative in making themselves available for such positions. “However, while the average age of a board would be 55-plus, we are seeing several younger women coming on boards. The attitude is certainly changing. Of course, besides women themselves stepping up, companies need to look at bringing women on boards more for their expertise and not soft skills. Headhunters also play an important role in expanding the net,” said Nayar.
 
 According to the EZ report, India was better than China and Hong Kong on the number of women CEOs. In India, there were four   as against 36 male CEOs, taking the women percentage to 11.1%. This was the highest in Asia. In China, the percentage of women CEOs was 4.7%, while in Hong Kong, it was 3.6%. Among CFOs, however, India is far behind at 5.1% of women as CFOs. China had a larger percentage of women CFOs at 30.6%, while in Hong Kong, the percentage was 15.2%. “A CFOs job is harder than that of a CEO. CFOs form the backbone of a company. While there may not be many women CFOs today, we are seeing bright talent at the next levels. Hopefully, the situation would change going forward,” said Nayar.
 
 From India, 40 companies across industries were included in the analysis, which examined the boards of the largest companies across 44 countries globally. The analysis considered data from 1,491 companies from all over the world.
 
 
