CHARMINAR: Potholes and waterlogging threw traffic out of gear in   and surrounding areas, as heavy rain lashed the city for the second consecutive day on Tuesday . Stretches from NMDC to Nampally railway station continued to reel under massive traffic jams.

 Perilous potholes and craters, made worse by the rain, made life miserable for commuters, especially on roads at Nampally and near  . At many places, motorists had to tread extra carefully as the potholes were filled up with water, covering them completely .
 
 The spells of rain during the day also kept traffic cops on their toes as vehicles continued to move at snail's pace.Snarls were common at crossings such as Madina,  , Begum Bazaar, Nampally, Ek-Minaar Masjid, outside Nampally railway station, Masab Tank, Lakdikapul, NMDC and other areas.Similar was the case on roads in   and other localities.
 
 Ahmed, a motorist, faced a lot of inconvenience while negotiating traffic in Nampally and stretches where Metro work was going on.
 
 “Vehicles hardly moved on many stretches. Along with that, the potholes added to the misery. Two-wheeler riders were the worst affected.Many motorists even had to take detours reach to their respective destination on time.Authorities should repair the roads with high quality mate rial,“ said  .
 
 Apart from traffic, chocked and overflowing drainage lines in some areas added to peoples' woes. They want Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation authorities to come out with a permanent solution to overflowing drains. “It seems that the funds have not been used properly for drainage works. We've complained to the authorities about overflowing drains many times but they just turned a blind eye,“ said Asif, a shopkeeper.
 
 Gaffar, a commuter, rued how authorities had neglected the busy road in Mehdipatnam for the last three months, which has made the potholes worse now. “Potholes cause severe problems to everyone passing through this road. I urge GHMC to pay attention towards this road,“ said Gaffar.
 
