NAGPUR: A wave of patriotism swayed through the hearts of youth at Guru Nanak Bhavan on Tuesday as they were introduced to many war stories and acts of valour of Indian soldiers in the programme ‘Kargil Shouryagatha’. Students from different colleges of the city participated in the programme organized to relive   war stories. The programme was organized by   and founder of   Anuradha Prabhudesai was the key note speaker at the event.

 While sharing stories of Kargil war, Prabhudesai said, “There are many stories of valour of Indian army in Kargil war. In the initial stage of war, a 23-year-old soldier Saurabh Kalia from Jat Regiment went on a mission to neutralize some infiltrators but after 22 days when his body came back to India, it was mutilate so badly that his ears, nose were chopped off but it is pity that not many of our common citizens remember his name.”
 
 “There are many soldiers who gave life for the country but common people does not remember their martyrdom. We do not understand that the price of freedom we enjoy is been paid by a soldier with his life on border,” added Prabhudesai.
 
 Prabhudesai also remembered many heroes of Kargil war like captain Manoj Kumar Pandey, captain Vikram Batra, Subhedar Yogendra Singh Yadav, Naib Subhedar Sanjay Kumar, group captain K Nachiketa, squadron leader Ajay Ahuja and others.
 
 Criticizing a section of people in JNU, Prabhudesai said, “Every young person must condemn people from JNU who are criticizing soldiers without understanding their work or dedication towards security of nation and its citizens.”
 
 Retired group captain and air force pilot SV Fatak also shared his experience of 1965 war with Pakistan, were he escaped from the jaws of enemy as his plane was shot down in their territory while on a mission to neutralize tanks of Pakistan army.
 
 Narrating his tough time, Fatak said, “It was a hard time as for three days I was alone, walking in the night to avoid any attraction without any food or water. But at last, when I reached on Indian soil, Indian soldiers tried to kill me misinterpreting me as iI came from Pakistan side. Fortunately, I was saved as they later took me to their commanding officer. Later, when I went through medical check-up, I stood for defending my nation” said Fatak.
 
 Wing commander and Defense PRO Sameer Gangakhedkar, Pro-VC Pramod Yeole were also present at the programme. Students were thrilled to listen the real life stories of the Indian soldiers. The event received a great response from the youngsters.
 
