GURUGRAM: DPS-Ghaziabad has claimed it has been vindicated, after Punjab and   high court directed the state education department to issue an interim relief to the school, embroiled in a bitter controversy over “arbitrary” fee hike earlier in March this year. 

 The court asked the department to issue an interim recognition for the current academic session. The school, that re-branded itself as   from its previous avatar, Chiranjeev Bharti, came under fire after hiking fees by over 60%.
 
 The school justified the hike saying it is a new school, which, under Haryana Education Rules, wasn’t entitled to file Form VI, which would issue it a new base fee structure.
 
 On June 5, though, the school faced a major setback after D Suresh, chairman of the state fee and fund regulatory committee, categorically disallowed it from hiking fees, for the second time. 
 
 In the formal order copy, the   noted: “As per Haryana Education Act 1995, read with Haryana Education Rules 2003, the claim of the school that since it is not yet recognised, hence not liable to submit Form VI, is not valid. 
 
 “From a perusal of conditions given in the temporary condition, the school has only been allowed to admit students up to Class III, but in the instant case, the school is already running on account of continuation of students of the earlier school, i.e. Chiranjeev Bharti. In such a situation, school cannot be precluded from the condition of filing Form VI,” the FFRC order read.
 
 The latest court order has come against the backdrop of efforts by the school to seek recognition, alleging that the government was dithering in issuing the same.
 
 Last month, chairman of DPSG Society, Om Pathak, blamed the government for the delay. “Had the government given us recognition on time, we would have duly submitted Form VI and hiked fee accordingly,” he said.
 
 “On June 23, the school took the matter up with Punjab and Haryana high court, who, on the same day, issued orders that we must be given recognition immediately,” said Deepika Sharma, principal, DPSG. “But somehow, the issue dragged on till today, when on the second hearing, the court directed education department to issue us the recognition,” she added.
 
  has a copy of the court order, which reads: “The respondents (state) are directed to grant ad interim provisional recognition in light of the fact that the school is in existence since 1990, and students continue to study in furtherance of terms of transfer of the management. The petitioner (school) be permitted to continue in academic session 2017-2018 during the pendency of present petition, subject to further orders from this court.”
 
 When TOI asked the school principal what effect such an order would have on the current fee hike controversy, Sharma said she needed to discuss all issues with the school management first. 
 
