MADURAI: The recently published results of Swachh Rail Survey for 2017 have come as a big surprise for many rail users as the stations under Madurai division which fared better in the previous survey have fallen behind drastically. Smarting under the setback, top   officials said that cleanliness would be the main focus this year. 

 The rail survey studied seven stations of Madurai division like Kovilpatti, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Rameswaram and Dindigul in ‘A’ category and Madurai railway junction in A1 category. The survey consisted of three components such as Process Audit, Direct Observation and Citizen Feedback. The scores for 1,000 were equally divided among these three components. 
 
 When compared to 2016 results, the division’s scores have come down significantly. For instance, Madurai junction which scored 670 last year managed only 598 this year. Subsequently, the junction which was in the 43rd place at the national level has fallen to 286th place this year leaving many wondering how such a steep fall could be possible within a year. 
 
 Rail users pointed out that the division should improve some of the parameters to get back to old ratings. “Express trains are maintained well but cleanliness in passenger trains is still a cause of concern”, says K Padmanathan, general secretary of   at Madurai. Water availability in toilets of passenger trains is also another problem. Beggars and dogs are having a free run inside Madurai junction premises as the entry is not restricted much at the western gate, he pointed out. “Railway authorities should take good care of last platforms like five and six just as they care for platforms 1 and 2”, he opined. 
 
 Things were satisfactory on the cleanliness front but Madurai division had to work on improving passenger amenities, stated S Chandramouli, vice-president of   and member of rail user forums. The new premises at Tirunelveli junction on the north side were yet to be provided with ticket counters forcing people to walk all the way to the old building for collecting tickets. There were paid toilets on all three platforms but the contractor who didn’t have adequate workers maintained only the one on the first platform keeping the other two locked. Similarly, the escalators at Tirunelveli junction were yet to be put to use because there was no operator, Chandramouli said. 
 
 Divisional railway manager, Neenu Ittyerah, said that cleanliness was going to be the next focus area of the division after safety. In the first few months of the year, there were some tendering issues with contractors carrying out cleaning works. As the labour charges shot up, the contractors suffered losses and tended to pull out of contracts. “We have revamped the entire system of cleaning contracts at present and we will focus on cleanliness to improve the scores”, she said.
 
 
