MADURAI: A government school headmaster in   district, found to have sexually abused 22 girls, was sentenced to 55 years rigorous imprisonment by a special court on Tuesday.

 The court fined S Arockiasamy, who is also suspected of sexually abusing 91 boys and girls of the school in backward Podhumbu village, Rs 3.4 lakh will be distributed among the 22 girls, who included dalits.
 
 In a verdict, which is considered landmark in every sense, additional district judge R Shanmugasundaram found Arockyasamy guilty under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, SCST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and   Women Harassment Act. The judge, however, acquitted the other teachers, C Amali Rose and Shanmuga Kumarasamy and Victor, who were charged with aiding and abetting the headmaster in the crime that continued until the mother of a victim took the issue to police seven years ago. Police filed a case against the headmaster and three teachers.
 
 “For a special court for cases of atrocities against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, giving 50plus years of imprisonment to a convict and making the convict pay fine to his victims is a first in the country,“ said a beaming public prosecutor P Parimaladevi.
 
 According to her, 91 students, including several boys, at the government high school in Podhumbu in Madurai district had been sexually abused by headmaster Arockiasamy.
 
 It was Panju, whose child was one of the headmaster's victims, who mustered courage and set in motion the process that culminated in the offender being sent to jail. “Unfortunately, she is not alive to savour the victory after the verdict was announced,“ Parimaladevi said.
 
 The case had to be taken to the Madras high court several times during the trial period. First, the high court was approached to get the trial shifted out to a special court for cases under SCST Act from the regular Mahila Court in Madurai.
 
 Even after Justice S Nagamuthu's order transferring the case to the special court, difficulties persisted since the prosecutor was a male. On petitions from AIDWA and Podhumbu villagers, the court then appointed Jaya Indra Patel of Mahila Court as public prosecutor.Thereafter, the court appointed Parimaladevi as public prosecutor, assisted by Nirmala Rani.
 
 
 
 
