MEERUT/ BIJNOR: After the decision of the Uttar Pradesh government to   up to Rs 1 lakh each of farmers in the state, the latter claimed that the fine print in the decision has rendered the entire sop useless for them. According to farmers, there should not have been a cap on the amount of loan waived and, second, only those farmers who had taken loans before March 31, 2016 stand to benefit. There have been a large number of growers who had not paid the instalments due on March 31, 2017 in the hope of  on their loans. Now they will be forced to  , they said.
 
  According to the data provided by the lead bank office in Meerut, over 3 lakh farmers are under a debt of Rs 3,974 crore in the district. They had borrowed money from different banks and were hopeful of getting a waiver.
  
  State general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union, Rajendra Singh, said, “The government has given what amounts to a toy to the farmers to play with. In west UP, most of the farmers who have Kisan Credit Cards borrow from different banks in April, May or June. No bank gives agriculture loan in March as this is the closing month of the financial year. Farmers pay off the loans by the end of the financial year. The main point is that farmers who borrowed the loan after March 31, 2016, can’t avail the waiver. Most of the farmers have already paid off the money they had borrowed in 2016. The government should have waived off the loan which was taken by the farmers in the last financial year also. This scheme will benefit only the farmers of eastern UP, most of who are defaulters.”
  
  According to another farmer,  , resident of Gajraula Shiv in Bijnor, “There are 2,500   in my village and the neighbourhood. According to the norms mentioned by the government, only three of them can avail the waiver. Those farmers who borrowed money after March 31, 2016 do not stand to benefit.”
  
  Farmers also did not pay off the loan in the expectation of a waiver. Now they will have to pay a penalty. Farmers have to pay 7% interest on the debt if they deposit the money on time. The government provides a 3% subsidy in the interest to farmers. In this way, farmers have to pay only 4% interest. But if farmers do not repay the loan on time, they will have to pay more than 10% interest and no subsidy is provided to them by the government.
  
  Farmers’ organisations also said that the BJP’s campaign promise did not mention a Rs 1 lakh cap on the waiver. “Back then, party leaders had said all farm loans would be waived. What about those who borrowed more than Rs 1 lakh each?” said Kuldeep Tyagi of the Bharatiya Kisan Andolan.
  
  “The government should have waived off all loans and there should not have been the cut-off date. But it’s a good start,” said Rakesh Tikait, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union.
