CHANDIGARH: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo   has expressed apprehension that the NDA may bank upon the   sops to gain edge in the poll-bound states and has requested the   (EC) to take cognizance of its announcement ahead of the elections to five states.

 Though the final decision rests with the Election Commission, the Centre has indicated the Budget will be presented on February 1, which comes three days before both Punjab and Goa go to polls.
 
 “The budget sops can and may benefit the ruling party at the Centre before elections, therefore I request to the Election Commission to take a note of this,” said Delhi chief minister.
 
 In 2012, then finance minister   had deferred the Budget to the middle of March against the conventional last week of February and upon the completion of elections of the same five states.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Kejriwal, who was in Punjab capital Chandigarh on the day of announcement of polls, said that he and his party were unconcerned about any comeback by Amarinder and his men looking to wrest power from Akali Dal that is faced with 10-year anti-incumbency.
 
 “It is not AAP or Arvind Kejriwal who is fighting these polls. With our party, it’s always the people and our volunteers are the centre of our campaign,” he said.
 
 In his signature style, Kejriwal took potshots at the Congress, asking it to clear air on their chief ministerial pick. “Captain is nervous about his own candidature. Punjab knows him by now on how he remained absent from Vidhan Sabha for eight years and then Lok Sabha for two years. When they needed his voice, he was never there.
 
 “Why is the Congress is not announcing Amarinder as their chief ministerial candidature? Why is that Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was also offered deputy chief ministerial post by AAP, went to the Congress? It’s because the Congress offered him CM post. We are told Sidhu has been assured that Amarinder will be used only till the end of the campaign. Congress men and insiders too know unofficially and informally that Sidhu will be their CM candidate,” he added.
 
