VADODARA: Nowhere in the country, a person below 18 years is allowed to vote. But the voters list that M S University has issued for the forthcoming elections for the   of university’s senate body includes name of a minor! 

 This and many such allegations rocked the university campus on Tuesday as the poll battle for the donor’s seat heated up even as four more candidates filed their nominations. Earlier, two candidates had filed their nominations for the two posts elections of which will be held on February 9. 
 
 “How can name of a student of class nine studying in a private school be included in the electoral list? The university has issued the electoral roll in which name of this minor has been included,” said professor Pragnesh Shah, who while filing his nomination also objected to the minor’s name being included in the list to the university officials.
 
 “Presently, we don’t have any mechanism to know the age of any donor. We receive the list of donors from the accounts section based on which the electoral list is prepared. Before notification, we have the process of inviting objections but nobody had so far submitted objection to the list,” said Jayprakash Soni, MSU’s deputy registrar, adding that if the representation is true, such a voter won’t be allowed to vote. 
 
 “On one hand, the university has given voting right to only one donor against a donation of Rs 65 lakh from a trust while on the other hand there are 38 names mentioned as donors against a so-called donation of Rs 38 lakh from VadFest. In actual terms, what was received as compensation for the work that the university carried out ahead of VadFest is now being counted as donation,” said Prataprao Bhoite, president of  , who has also filed his nominations. 
 
 Apart from Shah and Bhoite, two other candidates including Rahul Sandhu, an office-bearer of   and Vrajesh Patel, son of veteran BJP leader and former chairman of standing committee of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation Ajit Patel also filed their nominations on Tuesday – a day before the last day of filing nominations. 
 
 Bhoite and Vrajesh are official candidates of the ‘sankalan samiti’ which comprises of members of the BJP, RSS, ABVP and Maharaja Sayajirao Vishvavidyalay Shaikshik Sangh. 
 
 They will be in direct contest against sitting syndicate member Jigar Inamdar and builder cum industrialist Mayank Patel who have already filed their nominations. 
 
