CHARMINAR: The construction of two major religious convention centres in this 425-year-old city, Christian Bhavan and  , remains a dream for the minority communities in Telangana. The projects have been held up for more than two years. 

 Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao laid the foundation stone for the Christian Bhavan at Mahendra Hills, but the project ran into rough weather as the land was mired in legal controversies. Unidentified persons removed the foundation stone following which the members from the   reached the spot and a booked a complaint with the police.
 
 The entire plan, including designs for construction of a tall tower, a church and a community hall for marriages and functions, was prepared and approved by the chief minister, but with another party moving the court, the project could not take off for the last two years. 
 
  "Yes, there has been a delay but it was due to non-availability of clean land, without any legal problems. Finally, the government has allotted two acres of land for the project. It will take off soon," said   managing director V Victor.
 
 It has not been a different story with   as the land originally short-listed for the purpose belonged to another party. As many as five sites were short-listed but none could be finalised due to various issues. 
 
 "I visited one of the sites but found it unsuitable because some people were claiming to be the owners. A gurudwara is going to be constructed and there should not be any issues with the land," said Tejdeep Kaur, director general of police,  , Telangana, who has been actively participating in getting the project file approved.
 
 She said now a three-acre plot near Outer Ring Ring, about 3km from APPA in Rajendernagar mandal, has been selected and the project is expected to take off soon. 
 
 Minorities Welfare Department Secretary Syed Omer Jaleel said the department has taken advance possession of land allotted for the construction of Christian Bhavan. However, both the communities have to wait at least a year more for their respective bhavan's to come up as the construction will take its own time.
 
 
