Navi Mumbai:   in Navi Mumbai may be better and safer in the years to come, as the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) is in midst of formulating a Road   Improvement Plan (RSIP) for both the new and existing city roads. A scientific and analytical study has been planned to improve mobility of vehicles and walkability of pedestrians across the city. The first of its kind initiative will also help pinpoint location specific issues and identify barriers for road safety. Consultants will be appointed to identify the probable issues on the city roads and measures that need to be taken by the NMMC for avoiding accidents.

 “Apart from a study that was done by IIT on making Palm Beach Road safe for motorists in 2012, there has never been any study concentrating on the city roads and its issues. It is very important for the NMMC to have a road map to tackle the increasing number of vehicles on the city streets,” said the Municipal Commissioner Dr N Ramaswami.
 
 With this study, NMMC will be in a better position to identify safety issues and will have accurate understanding about the measures it will have to undertake. Consultants will be expected to prioritize the areas that need to be attended on a priority basis. “Right from the vehicular movement, parking practices, road signboards and markings to traffic signal performance, design of the road, alignment issues etc will be reviewed. The body will study the history of accidents that took place in the last 5 years and will take safety measures accordingly. The body will also do a count of pedestrians in city and how many of them use footpaths. All the data will be colpiled together for motorists’ safety,” informed an official.
 
 The study is to be done in parts with initial focus being on 200 km stretch which will be a combination of arterial, sub arterial and distributor roads. The study will encompass safety practices seen at national and international level. “Since there is not much study done on urban road safety, the study will have references from international practices as well. Broadly the safety issues will be identified node wise, subordinate land use wise and road type wise,” said the city engineer Mohan Dagoankar.
 
