AURANGABAD: Twelve armed policemen have been posted at the   and Hospital here to ensure security at the casualty ward, following recent assaults on resident doctors at Dhule as well as Aurangabad.

 Senior city police officers personally reviewed the situation at the   premises for two consecutive days and on Sunday decided to beef up the security at the hospital premises, which receives an average 2,000 patients at the outdoor patient department (OPD). 
 
 Assistant police commissioner (special branch) Govardhan Kolekar said, “Following the review, we have decided to deploy force in three shifts of eight hours each. Each of these teams would be headed by an officer of the rank of PSI and they would be deployed at the casualty ward.”
 
 Resident doctors across the state had gone on mass leave as a mark of protest against the frequent assaults on medicos serving at government hospitals and medical colleges. They withdrew their protests after the government promised to beef up security and fill up vacant posts. 
 
 The woes of the patients across the state grew manifold after private practitioners too joined the strike. More than 2,000 doctors associated with the Indian Medical Association, Aurangabad chapter stopped the work in support of the resident doctors.
 
 Resident doctors here claimed that apart from frequent heated arguments and abuses, the GMCH has witnessed eight incidents of resident doctors getting assaulted while being at duty since 2015. 
 
 GMCH medical superintendent Sudhir Choudhary told TOI, “It is a welcome move by the city police. We have noticed that the city police have taken the issue very seriously and decided to deploy about 12 armed policemen at the GMCH premises.”
 
 “Hostile conditions make it almost impossible for the doctors to put in their best and am sure that the beefed up security will not only boost their confidence but is also set to send a stern message to nuisance mongers,” he added. 
 
 Established in 1956, the GMCH, Aurangabad not only serves patients from eight districts of Marathwada, but also from Jalgaon, Dhule, Nandurbar, Buldhana and Ahmednagar districts. 
 
 GMCH earlier used to get only a couple of policemen in each shift, who would record medico-legal cases. In addition, there would be one guard posted at the prison ward situated in the premises.
 
 The situated improved slightly after police commissioner Amitesh Kumar decided to start a full-fledged police post last year. But the post comprising less than half a dozen men proved ineffective in many situations. 
 
