COIMBATORE: The   (CMCH) is soon going to have a posh hi-tech laboratory and scan centre that is expected to be on a par with private hospitals and scan centres. The state government had announced funds worth Rs 10 crore for this project. This project is likely to be taken up in the next few months. 

 It was a policy announcement made last September that CMCH would be equipped with a full-fledged full-body health check-up centre at a cost of Rs 10 crore. 
 
 The facility will have all the required facilities like x-ray, ECG, ECHO, tread mill test, a microbiology and pathology laboratory, cell counter along with mammogram facilities. 
 
 "Though we have all the above mentioned equipment, the stress is on providing an ambience that matches that off private centres," said the hospital's   (RMO),  . "They have asked us to create a centre with quality furniture," he said. Breakfast, tea and coffee would be provided to people who have to stay back for a post prandial sugar test, he added.
 
 The centre, which has been sanctioned under the chief minister's full body health check-up scheme, will be the government hospital's first paid service. 
 
 "There will be three health check-up schemes available under the titles silver, gold and platinum, which will cost Rs 1,000, Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,000 respectively," said a senior health department official. "We will also do tests for infertility,   and pap smear tests for cervical cancer at this centre," said the official.
 
 Though the government hospital has all the equipment required for the centre in the existing set-up, they have been asked to procure new ones. 
 
 "The   (DME), Dr S Vimala, also inspected the hospital for this purpose," said Dr Joe. "Along with the public works department we identified a space for the centre and an estimate to set up the physical structure," he said. 
 
 "We have decided to set it up in the ground floor of the centenary building. The physical structure will cost around Rs 2.5crore," said Dr Joe. "The remaining Rs 7.5 crore will be used to purchase new equipment and manpower," he said.
 
