Chandigarh: Despite being in the news for all the wrong reasons like the much-talked-about Varnika Kundu stalking case or violence in the neighbouring Panchkula following the verdict against Dera Sacha Sauda head in rape cases, the City Beautiful has been going strong in attracting domestic as well as international tourists.

 According to the data of the department of   and cultural affairs, Chandigarh has observed a surge in both international and domestic tourists.
 
 The city administration credited numerous avenues of hospitality, good roads and infrastructure for the hike in tourist inflow.
 
 Speaking to TOI, the tourists also talked about how city’s cleanliness, culture, a sense of acceptance and a certain kind of homeliness attract them to Chandigarh.
 
 “Chandigarh is such a beautiful city. People are so kind and inviting. Besides, it’s very well maintained by the city administration. We have a great time here. We make a stop here for at least two days, each time we visit Himachal Pradesh,” said Gurinder Handal, a tourist from Bathinda.
 
 Sarah Leroy, a tourist from Paris, said, “Chandigarh is nice. It is very beautiful. It has so many trees on either sides of the roads and it reminds us a lot of Paris. Besides, it has huge parks and they are very well maintained. We have been here for the last five days and we love it.”
 
 According to the data, the number of foreign tourists has increased by 3 to 6% in the last three years. While, the number of international tourists was 28,365 in 2014, it witnessed a surge with 29,538 in 2015 and 31,549 in 2016.
 
 On the other hand, the number of domestic tourists has also seen a rise. The numbers have gone up from 10.61 lakh in 2014 to 10.73 lakh in 2015 and 11.82 lakh in 2016.
 
 “The Chandigarh administration has been working to keep weekly and monthly cultural events alive in the city. A lot of Bollywood celebrities are called for musical nights as well. This really attracts domestic tourists especially from the neighbouring states of Panjab and Haryana, who head to Chandigarh for experiencing a metro like ambiance. Besides, CITCO also keeps on revising the rates of its hotels, which are more suitable to the pockets of tourists,” said Narinder Kumar, a tourist officer.
 
 The number of domestic and international tourists until July this year witnessed a monthly surge in hundreds. In January, the number was 2,819, which rose to 3,897 in February, which slightly dipped to 3,297 in March.
 
 Speaking to TOI, a group of design students visiting Sukhna Lake from Nashik said, “Chandigarh is very famous all over India. Le Corbusier made this city so beautifully. It is also included as a case study in books. We also feel safe and homely here, because Sukhna Lake reminds us of Marine Drive of Bombay.”
 
 
