It’s not often one gets to see a carnival dedicated to livestock. So, when the   ( ) was held over the weekend in  , Pollachi; animal lovers turned up in droves to witness the four-legged beauties. This time around, many youngsters from cities were spotted at the venue, thanks to the Jallikkattu protests that stressed upon the need to preserve  . Be it Kangayam Mayilai, Vandi Kalai, Kangayam- bull, Kangayam Sevalai, Kaari, Umbalachery, Malai maadu or native goat varieties, they were found all under one roof. The cattle from the Kongu region also took part in a beauty contest organized for them, where they were judged on various parameters.

 Shankar Vanavarayar of the Vanavarayar Foundation that organized the event, shares, “There was a time when   boasted of its indigenous livestock and people owned many animals with pride. But, with drought and difficulties in their upkeep, many of these animals were sent to slaughter houses. And, Pollachi has now relegated as the Gateway to Kerala. This is not an acceptable image of Pollachi, which is known for its scenic beauty, agrarian culture, heritage and rich livestock. The Kaalnadai Thiruvizha provides a platform and serves as a meeting point for farmers and livestock breeders in Pollachi and other towns. They can not only flaunt their cattle, but also buy and sell them. This year, we witnessed a lot of new faces, who were not necessarily related to agriculture or cattle, thanks to the Jallikkattu protests.”
 
 A Vellingiri, member of the organizing committee tells us, “Pollachi was renowned for its Naattu Maadu Santhai, a market where indigenous breeds were bought and sold. The aim of the festival was to regain the fame and glory, by creating awareness about native breeds and their preservation. We had farmers from three states –Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, who had exhibited around 1,000 native breed animals that comprised cows, bulls, buffaloes, goats, dogs and roosters. We began the festival with a Gomatha pooja. This was followed by a beauty show for cows. The dogs- Kombai, Rajapalayam, Chippiparai and Kanni- were brought in from Ottanchathram and Rajapalayam. We also had a rooster show where naatu seval was exhibited. The idea was to educate the youngsters and farmers about opting for native breeds; even among dogs and poultry. The festival was an eye-opener for many, especially farmers who were under the impression that only jersey cows yielded more milk.”
 
 Farmer S Rajendran from Aliyar, who brought his cows and bulls for the pooja and contest, was also able to sell one of his animals at the fair. “I met few potential buyers there, who have promised to be in touch. Despite being a farmer for three decades, I didn’t know there were so many varieties in native cattle. I also learnt a lot about organic manure and medicines for animals. I had switched to jersey cows few years ago, but I went back to rearing native breeds. Now, I supply milk with a sense of satisfaction. I am planning to buy few indigenous animals from the North, including the Sahiwal & Gir from Gujarat.”
 
 Engineering student Sakthi Thas chose to come all the way from Salem to just observe the Kangayam bulls. “There was a lot of talk about the Kangayam bulls during the protests recently, which is why I came to see them in person. I got to know a lot about native breeds at that point of time and I was there to enhance my knowledge.” Actor Karthi, who gave away, prizes to the winners, said, “The milk from indigenous breeds helps us live a long and healthy life. I advise everyone to follow suit and opt for milk from native cattle.” The show culminated with rural cultural shows from the state. 
 
