Bengaluru: From unsuccessful attempts to set up police outposts to uncertainty over the Tourist Mitras scheme, the state government seems to be finding it hard to police tourist destinations across Karnataka and ensure the safety of women tourists. The state police has cited its inability to share home guards with the tourism department for the Tourist Mitra programme, which was launched in 2015, sources in the tourism department said. The Tourist Mitras were to be deployed at various destinations to provide security to domestic and international tourists, especially women. The hitch is an administrative concern about how to put the 472 home guards, deputed to the Tourist Mitra programme, on the rolls as home guards are not meant to be permanent staff. The home department now seems ambivalent about continuing the Tourist Mitra project. This was conveyed to the tourism department at a meeting on January 2. However, after much cajoling, a temporary fix has been identified with another set of home guards to be trained in soft skills and foreign languages to become Tourist Mitras. A proposal to set up police outposts for 10 to 15 Unesco protected heritage sites and other major tourist hotspots has also been shot down by the police department for the same reasons of manpower crunch. “With this kind of manpower shortage we also considered raising a separate protection force for the tourism department but with administrative and recruitment concerns, it is difficult,” said a tourism official. According to tourism director N Manjula, the regulation of private homestays will ensure that at least one section of the tourism sector is safe for women travelling alone or in groups. “With the registration of homestays in the state, we will weed out the illegal ones. We will also be checking the criminal antecedents of people employed in these homestays and insist upon security cameras on the properties,” said Manjula. Tourism minister Priyank Kharge said the department is trying to push for women-only tourism packages booked through Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC). “We are trying to put safety measures in place for women when they visit Jungle Lodges and Resorts and KSTDC; give them discounts and put them at ease with a proper response system. We will try to provide them transportation with a woman driver or at least sensitise the male drivers and other male staff at our properties. For now, these efforts will be made till a long-term change in the mindset of society is brought about,” Kharge said.