KOLKATA: During his two stints as Australia's bowling coach,   nurtured and mentored a new crop of fast bowlers in the post-Mitchell Johnson era. The likes of  ,  ,  ,   and   have all come of age under McDermott, who quit his post after the ICC World T20 last year. TOI caught up with the 51-yearold Queenslander over telephone for his take on the ongoing four match Test series between India and Australia that is tantalisingly poised at 1-1. 

 
 
 
 
 
 It is never easy for any team to lose a world-class bowler like Starc.It is definitely a big blow for Australia, for he showed us in the first two Tests how devastating he can be with the new as well as the old ball, but we have adequate replacements for him.
 
 
 
 Injuries to fast bowlers are part of the game and just about every team, including Australia, has missed their top bowlers in key matches in the past 2-3 years. The Australian team management has been carefully rotating their premier bowlers -series to series, format to format -in order to keep them fresh and injury-free. Now that Starc is injured, he will not be rushed back. He is not playing the IPL, so he has all the time in the world to recover fully and be ready before England come to Australia for the Ashes series in November.
 
 
 
 As I look at it, the selectors have replaced one high-velocity bowler with another. Cummins is young and quick and can move the ball around. If he feels okay following the jet lag, I would be tempted to play him alongside Hazlewood as he is on top of his game and bowled really well in the Sheffield Shield final.
 
 
 
 Unfortunately , both Cummins and Pattinson have had a long list of injuries and have broken down in the midst of a series. They have, however, bounced back each time because of their incredible talent. Pattinson, too, is back to full fitness and worked up serious pace in the Shield matches. He too should be ready for the Ashes.
 
 
 
 I think Hazlewood has come on by leaps and bounds in the past couple of years and is quite capable of leading the Australian attack. He was wonderful in the second innings in Bengaluru and can be a handful on a surface with variable bounce. I am sure he will get good support from Cummins or Jackson Bird from the other end.
 
 
 
 He has certainly more variations now. He also has a lot of experience which he has been putting to good use. He was superb in the first innings in Bengaluru and I thought he was a touch unlucky in Pune where Steve O'Keefe took most of the wickets. But it happens when one bowler is running through the side. It is pleasing to see Lyon attack Indian batsmen from over the wicket and O'Keefe attacking the stumps all the time without giving rival batsmen any width to work with.
 
 
 
 It is not about Australian bowlers, rather it's about their batsmen. Steven Smith and his colleagues have to find a way to put a decent score on the board. If they do that, I am sure our bowlers will be able to do the job for the team.
 
 
 
 The good old Australian brand of cricket is still good enough. The idea is to be smart with your shot selection. It is now a two-match series. Whoever wins in Ranchi will have a huge advantage. I expect both teams to go hard at each other.
 
 
 
 I also saw what everyone else did on television, so it would be improper for me to comment on it. I think the players of both teams are mature enough to bury the issue and get on with the job of winning the series.
 
 
