CHENNAI/NEW DELHI/COLOMBO: Even as the Indian government pressed Sri Lanka for a thorough probe into the killing of   fisherman K Bridjo on Monday night, Sri Lanka said an initial probe had ruled out its navy's involvement in the incident. Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, meanwhile, urged Prime Minister   to summon the Sri Lankan high commissioner in India over the “unprovoked killing“.

 In New Delhi, the foreign ministry said, “Government of India is deeply concerned at the killing of an Indian fisherman. Our high commissioner to Sri Lanka has taken up the matter with the prime minister of Sri Lanka ( ).The   has promised a full and thorough investigation.“
 
 Sri Lankan navy spokesman Lieutenant Commander Chaminda Walakuluge in Colombo categorically denied any involvement of its navy in the fisherman's killing, saying the navy did not open fire at poaching fishermen and only arrested them.
 
 In a statement, the Sri Lankan foreign ministry said, “All possible action will be taken in cooperation with the relevant Indian authorities to investigate into this incident utilising GPS technology as well.“ Rameswaram fishermen have refused to accept the denial by Sri Lanka. Sri Lankan authorities have denied involve ment, but then who is firing at our fishermen, “killing and injuring them?“ asked fishermen activist U Arulanandam. of Alliance for Release of Innocent Fishermen. Meanwhile, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday announced a financial aid of 5 lakh to the Bridjo's family and 1 lakh to Saron, who is being treated at Rameswaram government hospital after suffering injury in the firing.
 
 “I write in deep anguish to bring to your urgent notice the cold blooded, inhuman, horrific and illegal barbaric killing of a young Indian fisherman from Tamil Nadu due to the unprovoked firing by Sri Lankan navy,“ Palaniswami said in a letter to Modi. Tuesday was marked by protests by fishermen in Rameswaram as well as other parts of Tamil Nadu like Nagapattinam. The fishermen were demanding that the state and Union governments find a permanent solution to their problem.
 
 The killing has met with widespread condemnation across Tamil Nadu. DMK working president M K Stalin said: “There is no justification for calling Sri Lanka a friendly neighbour after these repeated attacks and killings.“
 
 The death on Monday was yet another flashpoint in a long-simmering problem that has festered ever since the start of violent ethnic strife in 1983 in Sri Lanka. So far 187 fishermen including Bridjo have perished to firing while 363 have suffered injuries and 82 fishers have gone missing, according to community leaders.Some 85 fishermen are in Lankan jails while more than 145 Indian trawlers have been detained in Sri Lanka.
 
 Fishermen who were with Bridjo said the firing was indeed carried out by Sri Lankan navy personnel who came in a gunboat and four water scooters. “They opened fire surrounding our boat and Bridjo was shot in the neck. Saron suffered injuries while we managed to hide from bullets“, said Clintus, a crew member of the boat. The   (Marine Police) at Mandapam has registered a murder case against Sri Lankan navy. “We have recovered the round (bullet) in the incident and we will investigate based on evidence and GPS markings of the crafts“, said ADGP , Marine Police, C Sylendra Babu.
 
 
