

 A group of professionals in Bengaluru are on a crusade to create lush greenery in the barren parts of   so that the number of lung spaces in Karnataka increase exponentially, while expanding the state's cropping areas, too. The group, named   (meaning “Arise, oh Indian!“ in Sanskrit) is resorting to a practice similar to seed-bombing, used by the Vietnamese, to bring arid regions of the state back to life. But the Uttishtabharata technique will not involve release of seeds using aircraft (seed-bombing) due to funds crunch; instead they have made 10 lakh seed balls comprising red soil, cow dung and water along with different kinds of seeds, like those of Millettia pinnata (from which Honge oil is obtained), neem, and tamarind, among others. The group is aiming to create a total of three crore seed balls by the end of the year to distribute across the arid regions of Karnataka, so these germinate and grow into plants, thus returning greenery to barren lands, Narendra DS, a civil engineer who is part of this non-government organisation, told Bangalore Mirror.
 
 The materials are gathered and rolled into a ball and allowed to dry for about four hours till it is ready to be distributed in the barren lands across the state. The balls break and get dispersed by the wind or are car ried by flowing rainwater to different areas where they grow into plants.
 
 “The whole idea of this initiative is to make the soil fertile and let plants grow in barren areas so the lung space, which has been decreasing every year, increases and people get to live a healthier lives,“ said Narendra.“It is practically not affordable to plant 500 saplings every now and then. So, we have come up with such an idea that would help seeds spread by themselves and grow anywhere.“
 
 The initiative was taken to ensure participation of people to make the city a better place to live in and hence a lot of schools were approached so that their students could participate in it. “We have invited many schools and IT companies to come forward and join us in our initiative. To encourage the children, we have held competitions in schools where the student who makes the most number of seed balls would get a fruit seed ball as a token of appreciation, which can be planted in their garden,“ Narendra said.
 
 Uttishtabharata has coordinators in every district of Karnataka and makes sure that the plans are implemented at all locations with equal efficiency.
 
 Last Sunday, the seed ball drive was conducted at nine places in Karnataka ­ Ramanagara, Tumakuru, Chitradurga, Davanagere, Shivamogga, Hassan, Kalaburagi and Channapatna, besides   and   in Bengaluru. The production cost of each seed ball is around Rs 1 and all the funds that gathered presently have come from the organisation's members themselves. The idea of seedbombing came around three years ago when Uttishtabharata interacted with members of  , who gave them the suggestion of creating seed balls.
 
 Uttishtabharata has been planning on creating seed balls with fruit seeds in them as well. “We have decided to make larger seed balls with mango seeds,“ Narendra said.
 
 On June 5 ­ the occasion of World Environment Day ­ they have planned to launch a campaign to spread awareness about the use of seed balls. “Our motive is to reach as many people as possible and let them know that such a method exists with which one can make the environment greener.“
 
