MADURAI: The   on Monday expressed dissatisfaction at the lack of progress in the removal of seemai karuvelam (prosopis juliflora) trees from land belonging to   and Dindigul district. However, it appreciated the district collectors of Tuticorin, Theni and Nilgiris for their efforts at removing the invasive species. 

 The bench also expressed the hope that the Tamil Nadu government would soon enact a law with prohibitory and penal clauses to eradicate seemai karuvelam trees. Juliflora trees suck a lot of water and have invaded water bodies and dry lands of government and private people. Since such trees ultimately affect agricultural activities, a batch of cases for their eradication was filed before the high court bench.
 
 The court, which had ordered removal of the trees in thirteen districts that come under its jurisdiction, subsequently directed to remove the trees in the entire state on February 10. The authorities concerned in the districts have been taking steps in this regard. Besides, the judges of the high court bench were also carrying out inspections about the removal of the trees in districts including Madurai, Sivaganga and  . 
 
 On Monday, when the batch of cases came up for further hearing before the division bench of justices A Selvam and P Kalaiyarasan, MDMK leader Vaiko who is also one of the litigants also appeared. The bench said that awareness about removal of those trees had spread among public and the officials were doing their job. 
 
 When the judge wanted the leader to engage his party workers in the task, the leader said he was doing it and would strengthen the task in the near future. The bench also said that it was found during inspections in Dindigul district that the court order was not complied with strictly. If the district collector does not comply with the order, the collector will face severe legal consequences. 
 
 The bench also directed the additional advocate general and counsel for the southern railway to give proper instructions to the officials concerned about the court order with regard to eradication of seemai karuvelam trees.
 
