BATHINDA: A song by noted Punjabi singer   about the ills afflicting Punjab, especially the drug menace, has gone viral, garnering over 2 million views on   in less than 24 hours.

 Gurdas Mann on Thursday evening released the 7.30-minute video of the title track from his album ‘Punjab’ in which he has expressed grief towards socio-religious maladies, including drug abuse, excessive use of chemicals in fields, contamination of water, acts of sacrilege and sharp drop in number of youths taking up sports.
 
 Releasing the track along with his wife Manjeet Mann and son  , the singer had said, “It should not be seen in a political context. We have raised various issues plaguing Punjabis apart from drug addiction.”
 
 In the song, Gurdas Mann goes 100 years back and shows what martyr Bhagat Singh had desired as a 10-year-old child in 1917 when he had started dreaming of better times ahead in an independent India. He then compares it with the current situation of Punjab, cursed by drugs and poison-laced crops.
 
 He has asked Punjabis that Bhagat Singh had done his duty in 1931 by sacrificing his life for the motherland and when would they return the debt by following his ideals.
 
 Earlier, ‘Udta Punjab’ movie had highlighted the deep-rooted drug menace in Punjab and had courted a lot of controversy with the Censor Board, which has ordered several changes and deletions in its content.
 
 Now Gurdas Mann’s song after the Punjab elections has also attracted many voices questioning the timing of its release. Many, who are commenting about the song on social media, say it should have been released before the elections.
 
 A schoolteacher Sukhbir Joga said, “Though the song is well-versed, it should have been released a month earlier so that political parties would have learnt something from it.”
 
 Advocate   said Gurdas Mann should have released the song a few days earlier that would have presented the true picture of today’s youths.
 
 “It is a political song and should be seen in that context. It raises concern about youths, farmers and ordinary citizens, who fail to get potable water. All these concerns are addressed by the governments. However, our governments have failed in discharging their duties properly. The song should have been released earlier for people to make their decision,” said Amit Mittal.
 
 
