LUCKNOW: Claiming that the strategic and silent voting by   in first two phases is going in her favour, Bahujan Samaj Party chief   is now showering a series of sops to ensnare voters beyond the dalit-Muslim combine. Following late Tamil Nadu CM J Jayalalithaa -- who won her last assembly   by sheer power of sops and schemes -- Mayawati is offering jobs, employment and welfare schemes not only to  , but to all castes and communities.

 While BSP is not known for releasing its election manifesto, this time a 14-point charter that includes writing off of farmers’ loans up to Rs one lakh, breakfast of eggs and milk to school kids, releasing innocent jail inmates after reviewing their cases on individual basis, has been drawn to charm the voters. She is thus trying to reach out to even that those sections which were hostile and indifferent to her, say political analysts.
 
 As elections in the state are peaking, Mayawati is gradually disclosing her 14-point charter to convince voters that if she was voted to power this time her priority would be welfare and development and not the caste-specific welfare schemes and construction of monuments and memorials. The BSP, though has not hired any image maker like Prashant Kishore or Steve Jarding, she is changing her strategy phase-wise on the basis of inputs received from grass-roots level to attract voters.
 
 The charter of sops Mayawati is circulating among the voters includes service to the educated youth directly and also ensuring jobs for the shiksha mitras and the BTC category. This is a major U-turn in her approach. In 2007, Mayawati had threatened during campaigning that she would dismiss 22000 police constables recruited allegedly through unfair means during the then SP regime. She cancelled all the appointments after coming to power immediately after that.
 
 This time, a much mellowed Mayawati is not taking any stand on the controversial appointments. Rather, she is offering jobs to uneducated youth and has also promised ‘home posting’ for lower-rung policemen. Besides, the tone and tenor of her party’s campaign, too, has shown a remarkable shift and moved beyond caste-ridden messages.
 
 So, despite having fielded nearly 99 Muslim candidates, Mayawati’s campaign material depicts “Ram ka dost Rehman hai, UP ki yahi pehchan hai”. In order to counter Modi’s slogans, BSP has also unleashed a blitzkrieg with “ Yojanayein chahati yahan nirman hai, bas UP ki yahi pehchan hai” and “ UP ka hai dum, Behan ji aur hum”. And to counter the alliance, there is “Chor chor mausere bhai, bahut rah liye, ab nahi sahenge” and “CChoro ko jail ki raah dikhane do, Behan ji ko aane do”.
 
 
