BHAMPUR(DHULE): The   in the   of Dhule are estimated to have digested multi-crore   of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 denomination, as Maharashtra and Gujarat traders purchased cotton yield from them with old notes immediately after demonetisation.

 Before the farmers could understand demonetisation and its ramification, they were loaded with old currency notes. Their bank accounts swelling with money, farmers now fear the government would crack down on them for helping traders in disbursing unaccounted money. 
 
 Bhampur (old) alone, with its population of about 3,000, is estimated to have received old currency valued at Rs 20 crore from cotton traders in the past few weeks, claim villagers. Till the last week, every village in the region has dispatched about 150-200 quintal cotton every day at a price of Rs 5,000 – 5,100.
 
 If a village sold 150 quintal cotton at a price of Rs 5,000 a day, the purchase value comes to about Rs 7, 50,000. The minimum monthly cash flowing in one village at this rate is Rs 2.25 crore. There are at least 80 cotton growing villages in Bhampur Shirpur taluka alone. 
 
 “Soon after demonetisation, traders from bordering Gujarat and Maharashtra lined up in villages to purchase cotton. The farmers were surprised because they generally have to run after the traders. They were happy because they sold produce to the traders. Some even received higher amount for the yield. But all purchases were in old notes and traders said the government would not question the farmers if they deposited old currency in bank accounts,” says one of the farmers in Bhampur village requesting anonymity, fearing that the government would “probe” him. 
 
 “It is similar situation everywhere. The farmers were not much aware about what was happening. In the meantime, traders had disbursed old notes,” says farmer Ashok Devare.
 
 “Nothing is official about cotton trade. Traders come and purchase cotton and give a written piece of paper, stating that they have to pay a specific amount to the farmer concerned in lieu of cotton. The farmers have no other option, but to believe traders. A couple of years ago, a farmer committed suicide after the trader concerned refused to acknowledge that he had purchased cotton and had to pay money,” says Ashok, adding that the traders used cotton to make their black money white during demonetisation. “Farmers’ suicide in these areas goes unnoticed as the reasons are not registered correctly,” he says. 
 
 Only in the recent weeks the farmers realized that the traders were using them to disperse unaccounted money. “I told a trader that I shall not receive old currency. Then, he handed me a cheque of a private bank from Gujarat. Bank people say that it will not be cleared immediately,” says Kailash Devare, bringing out a cheque from a plastic carry bag. 
 
 Bhampur farmers unanimously stated that the government’s decision to scrap high currency note would be good only if it cracked down on those who had stashed black money. But as the government is announcing new initiatives on demonetisation, beleaguered farmers are losing patience.
 
 “Demonetisation landed us in big trouble. I hope that they don’t punish us for selling cotton to traders and accepting old currency. Every day, the government announces new plans and we are completely confused,” admits Ravindra Orase, stressing that agricultural work has come to a halt since farmers have no cash for sowing and paying to farm labourers. 
 
 Ravindra and other farmers have deposited old currency received from traders in their bank accounts and are now struggling to withdraw money. 
 
 Mayur Devare, tilling his farm to prepare bed to sow groundnut, has deposited his cotton cash in the bank and wants to renew his crop loan in the Bank of Maharashtra.
 
 “I need money for sowing, but bank officials say that they will not be able to renew my crop loan because of demonetisation. They say that they are busy with other works related to demonetisation and will be able to process loan only after May,” he complains. Mayur says it will be difficult for him to sow in the season without loan.
 
 There is a sense of being “used” by the traders and of being neglected by bank officials. Recently, farmers in Vikharan had beaten up some bank officials. In other places, they locked them up in banks when coffers went empty. 
 
 Kailsah Patil has a different grudge, though. He and others working as labourers have not received their payment dues under MGNREGA for the last two years.
 
 “The block development officer is not giving any reason for the delay in payment. Every time I go and ask for the dues, the officer says that the government has not released money. When asked for work, officers say that no work is available under the scheme. They treat us like a trash,” says Kailash. 
 
 It is 11 am and Kailash, along with a bunch of farmers, are waiting for a private jeep to take them to banks in nearby towns. There is no bus connectivity in the village, around 400km from Pune.
 
 According to villagers, the bus service stopped years ago when they beat up the conductor for calling villagers — bhamtas — (scoundrels) despite repeated requests against doing so. That incident stopped the bus service, but it could not stop people in surrounding villages from calling the farmers here bhamtas because the traditional name of the village is “Bhamta”. 
 
 “It’s an irony. We hard working farmers are finding it difficult to shed the tag of bhamta and the traders, who cheated us by handing over unaccounted old currency, remain scot free and even they call us bhamta,” say villagers.
 
