CHENNAI: The Election Commission of India ( ) on Friday said that inducement of   by   is a "major problem" in   with several complaints coming in that   and gift items have been distributed to the voters by candidates.

 In a press conference held in Chennai, deputy election commissioner Umesh Sinha said, "The ECI will at all costs stop (voter) inducement activity," he said, before adding that the role of the voter is crucial in preventing election code violations. "Voters should not accept gifts," he said.
 
 To questions whether the ECI had received complaints relating to cash distribution by candidates, Sinha confirmed that there were complaints. However, he failed to elaborate on the particulars instead maintaining that the "legal division of the ECI is examining the complaints."
 
 Sinha said fresh instructions had been issued to the District Election Officer following the complaints. "The DEO will launch a 'Vote is not for Sale' campaign from today," he said, to promote ethical voting practices.
 
 The ECI official added that the commission had instructed the election observers and the DEO to involve the local resident welfare associations in a bid to curb inducement of voters. "Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) will play an important role," he said. 
 
 Election observers would meet the local RWAs at convenient locations and promote awareness and would keep a track and monitor election malpractices, Sinha said.
 
 CCTV cameras would be installed at sensitive points as well as in and around the poll booths. To promote transparency, 100% webcasting of the polling stations would be attempted in RK Nagar. Sinha said the ECI had recruited student volunteers and NCC cadets to conduct a door-to-door awareness campaign promoting ethical voting.
 
 Sinha added that the ECI had deployed sufficient number of police force to watch the influence of anti-social elements on voters. "Tamil Nadu has a huge tradition of not having violence during the poll process," Sinha said, before adding that the commission would provide additional central police forces if the need arises.
 
 Dummy candidates would be under the scrutiny of the ECI. Sinha said since the constituency had a large number of candidates contesting, the commission would monitor the campaigning activities of dummy candidates to ensure that they were not actually campaigning for other candidates. Action would be taken on violators, he said.
 
 Instructions had been issued to monitor TASMAC liquor shops while vehicle movement in the constituency is also under scrutiny, he said. Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate authorities has been posted to monitor cash flow into the constituency, he said. Airports, railway stations, bus stations and other major transit hubs were also being monitored, he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the ECI transferred four officers from RK Nagar constituency, including the electoral registration officer (ERO) and the assistant returning officer, to uphold free and fair election ethics. 
 
 The officers include H5 New Washermenpet police inspector S Ramesh Babu and H3 Tondiarpet police inspector N Balakrishna Prabhu. The other two officials transferred with immediate effect includes the ERO, Vijayakumar, who was the Tondiarpet (zone 4) zonal officer of the Greater Chennai Corporation, and assistant returning officer Sekar, who was the Tondiarpet tahsildar.
 
 
