PANAJI:   rolled out many promises to voters in its Goa vision document 2012-2017 for the March 2012 elections, but most of them, many vital ones have remained on paper, sources alleged. 

 The first and foremost promise in the manifesto was to appoint a   within 100 days, as part of its assurance of clean governance. But, Justice B Sudarshan Reddy was appointed only a year later, and he and his staff lacked proper infrastructure. He vacated the position in just six months and the post lay vacant for two-and-half years, before Justice P K Misra was appointed.
 
 “BJP government is known for U-turns. The party had promised the moon, but hasn’t even delivered grass to the people. Issues like Regional Plan, medium of instruction and casinos should have been resolved,” vice-chairman Congress minority department Savio Rodrigues said.
 
 The 2012 manifesto also promised that Goa would be made plastic-free within three years. Garbage management for the entire state was assured within 18 months. A garbage treatment plant has been set up at Saligao, but it is not being utilized to full capacity and it isn’t receiving segregated waste. Fears are being raised that cost of operating the plant will be higher than the benefits reaped out of such a system.
 
 A six-lane Zuari bridge was to be taken up on a priority basis. Instead, a third Mandovi bridge was taken up for construction, while work for a new bridge over River Zuari was only initiated towards the fag end of the government’s term, sources said.
 
 “The nickname ‘U-turn government’ speaks for itself. People are disappointed with BJP for defaulting on most of its important promises,”   spokesperson Oscar Rebello said.
 
 In heritage matters, the BJP had promised to prepare and execute a master plan for conservation, development and maintenance of heritage sites, such as Tambdi Surla, Old Goa and other sites. Five years on, many sites and monuments are suffering from decay. Old Goa, as a world heritage site, is fast shrinking, heritage lovers said. A four-lane bypass built by PWD to Old Goa without permission from national monuments authority ( ) has destroyed a green strip and marred its heritage ambience.
 
  “We kept on reminding the government about a master plan for Old Goa, but nothing has been done,” Peter Viegas, fromSave Old Goa action committee, said.
 
 
