PANDHAKAWDA: A popular Bollywood number is being played from a public address system kept outside the lone zilla parishad school at Mangurda, a village about 150km from Nagpur, on Friday afternoon. 

 The song is stopped and the organizer requests villagers to immediately assemble inside the school’s hexagonal hall, occupied with a couple of women squatted on the floor along with their children.
 
 By the time the workshop by Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) on cashless transactions kicked off, more villagers, including elderly farmers and youths, joined in making the small hall jam-packed. 
 
 At the end, they pledged to become ‘e-Kranti’ volunteers under the HRD ministry’s financial literacy programme.
 
 The IGNOU team comprising IGNOU regional director  , assistant manager of Union Bank of India Tushar Nawale, which had held a similar workshop at Kurkheda, a Naxalite-hit belt of Gadchiroli, in January, gave the tribals of this governor-adopted village a lowdown on cashless transactions.
 
 Unlike Kurkheda, the queries here were less in the village with a population of around 1,800. In January, around 30 IGNOU students from Kurkhdeda, Sursundi and nearby villages had attended the workshop. They too had pledged to work as ‘e-Kranti’ volunteers. The HRD ministry had launched the drive after the demonetization on November 8, 2016. 
 
 “Awareness is very low and most of them have no bank accounts. Presently, there are only four graduates in the village,” says a primary school teacher Dinesh Ghatol.
 
 Village sarpanch Manisha Mandawe (27), who enrolled for Ignou’s Basic Preparatory Programme to pursue higher studies last year, said, “It won’t be possible to understand the concept easily but we would make use of educational videos brought by the institute to educate ourselves. Many of us have never used an ATM card. Today, we came to know it is also called debit card,” she said.
 
 Farmer Tanbaji Tekam (63) said he was clueless about how to withdraw money deposited in discarded currency notes. “There’s a wedding at home next month and I need cash. I had deposited my savings in old notes. But I don’t know how to get it back. Here I learnt that payments could be made through simple phones as well. I need to practise before using the service,” he said.
 
 Sivaswaroop said it is a purely Scheduled Tribe-dominated village and it still lacks facilities like good transport network. 
 
 “If they know the use of technology, many problems will be solved. Through such programmes IGNOU is trying to bring awareness among them and also facilitating distant education to overcome hurdles. IGNOU is offering only two courses but there is scope for skill-based trainings to empower them,” he said. 
 
