SURAT:   ( ) is mulling to form a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for operations and maintenance (O&M) of outdoor stadium, which is coming up in Palanpur area of the city at town planning (TP) schemes 8 and 9.

 It also plans to involve a sports body like   or   so that the stadium becomes an attractive proposition for international cricket in future. The three-year project at the cost of Rs 300 crore is likely to be completed once a private partner is chosen for construction. 
 
 SMC would be providing 1.25 lakh sq metres of land for this multi-sports facility. 
 
 “We have a couple of options after the feasibility study and we would decide on one of the options soon. We are also consulting some sports bodies to know their views on the requirements. We would be taking a final decision soon,” said municipal commissioner M Thennarasan. 
 
 SMC has appointed Delhi-based Feedback Infra Private Limited to do a feasibility study.
 
 The civic body is building this stadium with 30,000 seating capacity on its 32 acres of land. Out of these 32 acres, two chunks of 3.8 acres and 7.9 acres would be given to the private partner that would develop the stadium on the remaining 19.3 acres of land. 
 
 “ The stadium would be developed by a private partner who would be given these two small chunks of land for commercial or residential development,” said an official from SMC. 
 
 Along with outdoor stadium, a sports academy and also facilities for badminton, tennis, basketball, squash and swimming would come up on 19.3 acres of land. 
 
 Once the stadium is built, a SPV is mulled for its permanent O&M with SMC personnel so that it would have some stake and say in the functioning of the stadium. 
 
 For becoming SMC’s partner in the project, Ahmedabad-based firm named Trans Stadia and Singapore-based ONG and ONG group have shown interest.
 
 This is one of the dream projects of the ruling   in the city and with the assembly elections due later this year, it would want work to start on this project.
 
