Madurai: For the third consecutive year, Alanganallur failed to keep its date with   after the police enforced tough measures to thwart any attempt to defy the Supreme Court   on the bull-taming sport on Monday. However, villagers continued their protests throughout the night demanding that they be given some assurance to conduct the game or to unleash the bulls kept under ‘house arrest’ at least at the entrance of the arenas.

 All roads led to this small town in Madurai district in the morning as thousands of people from across the state arrived to express solidarity with the local people. Three bulls were let into the crowds, but they were immediately stopped by the police. Later, tension built in the town after people visiting for the first time were eager to see the “Vadivaasal’, the gateway to the jallikattu arena. Police didn’t allow them to visit the area.
 
 All day, shops remained closed as a mark of protest and black flags were hoisted outside houses too. Some villagers decided to show their respect to the people who came all the way to support them, by distributing meal packets free of cost. ``If you want water, come to my house that is across the street and here is some food,’’ said Pandi, one of them. This turned out to be a boon for the jallkattu activists as shops were remaining closed.
 
 Sporting black flags, the protesters later took out a rally which was attended by chairman of Jallikattu Peravai P Rajasekhar, musician Adhi and film director Amir among others. Many like Suresh Kumar and Ranjan came all the way from Chennai to participate in the protests. ``We were connected through social media and decided to continue to fight for the cause,’’ they said. 
 
 The protesters shouted slogans demanding that the central and state governments take steps to enable the conduct of jallikattu and against People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). They also shouted that political parties never come to Alanganallur seeking votes. A small wooden bull handheld by a protester was also taken out in the procession.
 
 Women in the village organised a ``kummi dance protest’’ in front of the Kaliamman temple, where they danced in a circle singing against PETA, the union government and also praying to their gods to ensure that the game was conducted. Later, men too joined the protest. Meanwhile, tension mounted in Alanganallur as the night started descending and the protesters refused to give up their protest. Local people who distributed bananas and biscuits earlier, later started mass cooking in their homes to feed the protesters. Madurai Superintendent of Police Vijeyandra S Bidari assured them that their demand would be forwarded to the authorities but they refused to relent.
 
 Karuppiah, a villager, said that the police had warned them that they would be slapped with fines of Rs 10,000 and also face prison term if they unleashed their bulls. Police sources said that 30 persons were arrested and 100 detained in connection with the protest.
 
 
