VARANASI: The 7-km stretch of the revered Ganga that runs along the city from Assi to Varuna with grand ghats will always remain the issue in every election till it is cleaned up.

 From purohits to hawkers, all fume at the mention of Namami Gange, the Centre's clean-Ganga mission launched with fanfare in 2014.
 
 Sadanand Pandey, a purohit, laments how the odour of effluents, animal and human excreta that disturb him late evenings after the aarti. Effusive in his praise for PM   for the Centre's initiative, he backs the National Green Tribunal (NGT)'s comment last month rapping government agencies for “only wasting public money“ in the name of Namami Gange project, launched by PM Modi after his election as Varanasi MP.
 
 “A half-measure is full failure. Modi's a man of determination. But the reason we wanted to move from Akhilesh to him has not been convincing. Tourists step back even now from taking a dip in the smelly river,“ says Sadandand.
 
 The January lab report by Sankat Mochan Foundation, that's been testing Ganga's water quality and the bathing ghats of Varanasi, found the fecal coliform count (FCC) count had jumped from 41,00 per 100ml in 2014 to 50,000100ml in 2017 -way beyond the permissible limit of 500100 ml. FCC, a water-borne bacteria, is known to cause gastro-enteritis.
 
 Head priest (mahant) of Sankat Mochan Temple (SMT) and its chief, Vishwambhar Nath Mishra, who is also a part of the faculty of electronics engineering at IIT BHU, talks of the time when he met Modi in 2013, before the LS polls. “We discussed how Ganga will be a key issue in speeches and its cleanliness his first big target once elected.
 
 “But, today, minister Uma Bharati is making an empty promise that she will commit suicide if Ganga is not cleaned by 2019. No suicide can save this river unless they respect her (Ganga),“ says Mishra. He talks of how SMT had taken the issue to then PM Rajiv Gandhi in 1986 and again to Modi in 2014.
 
 “The same sewage treatment plant (SGT) with a capacity of 102 MGD runs here, when the total waste disposal is nearly 376 MGD. Even this government is not releasing the Rs 49 crore project envisioned with American technology“ says Mishra. Both Congress and BSP take a dig at BJP over Namami Gange, but the saffron party deflects it, saying it's the state government's jal boards that “never cooperate“.
 
 “BJP sanctioned Rs 2,000 crore.Where was Congress and SP before we took charge?“ said Saurabh Srivastva, BJP candidate for Varanasi Cantt.
 
