MUMBAI: The ongoing standoff between the International Cricket Council ( ) and   over policy changes has only added to the latter's overflowing cup of woes, especially in the backdrop of a never-ending tussle in the Supreme Court. In the middle of this mess is the game's global and Indian broadcaster -Star TV -looking for some kind of clarity and focus going forward.  , the   chairman and  , can see none. In an exclusive interview with TOI, he spells out why Star may not bid for certain India rights, predicts doom for the global cricket fraternity if India's position is devalued and more...

 
 
 
 
 
 If India doesn't participate in Champions Trophy it would be bad for the tournament. But if India lose their voice or even if they are not playing a leading role, it would be disastrous for global cricket. The country that delivers the largest share of fans and also the largest share of money in global cricket should have a say in the critical affairs of the game. It is in best interest of cricket as a whole. The game can't get stronger without it becoming stronger in India. We must ensure that we aren't throwing the baby with the bathwater.
 
 
 
 Given all the volatility , we are indeed concerned about the health of cricket in the days ahead. No one seems to be talking about making cricket bigger and more popular. We have been very proud that our name is carried on the jersey of Team India. But given all the uncertainties, we have decided not to bid for it again. The commitments being asked for are too onerous without any clarity .
 
 
 
 For us, the problem is, right now we do not see a consensual leadership in cricket.The power of cricket came from the fact that everybody was aligned. The global cricket leadership was generally aligned to drive it forward. The alignment seems to have broken down. Lack of clarity ­ both, in ICC as well as BCCI ­ is our biggest concern right now. We have nothing to do with the politics of cricket. Currently we have invested in cricket more than any other media company has ever done. Our investments in the game are to the tune of a few billion dollars. And hence the business risk for us is very very high.
 
 
 
 
 It is not for us to comment on what the revenue sharing or the membership structure of the ICC should be because we have nothing to do with the politics of cricket.However, the centrality of India ­ a country that generates so much revenue for global cricket -is crucial. The percentage share of revenue that India generates is very high but the percentage share of viewership that India generates is even higher. And our take here is that nothing should be done to weaken or demotivate that enthusiasm. The consequences of that will be devastating. We have a contractual obligation with the ICC and the BCCI as well as some other boards that runs into several years. We are totally committed to those contracts and we will continue to honour them. However, given all the volatility in the cricket world, we will have to be very careful before making any further commitments.
 
 
 
 Just to give you an example: Right now, a series of BCCI contracts are coming -from team branding to everything else.However, we don't have clarity on things like the Future Tours Programme. Every now and then we keep hearing that India will participate in some tournaments, India will not participate in some tournaments.We don't have clarity on the windows, we don't have clarity on a host of things and these are all factors that have deep commercial implications. Hence our ability to commit more money to cricket right now is a real challenge.
 
 
 
 It's not for me to suggest how the committees should go about their work but I don't think we have ever been consulted or our views have been sought. This is a bit intriguing been sought. This is a bit intriguing for us. I would like to think that as people who take the game to millions of viewers and as people committed to such high sums of contractual value, we have a point of view. If spoken to, we can only help enrich the understanding of everybody .
 
 
 For instance, which are the formats that need to be promoted and which are the formats that do not need to be promoted. If there are millions of people -who rush to stadiums or to their television sets to watch the game -and are not so attached to Test cricket but are very excited about the T20, then there's a certain message that needs to be taken seriously . A game doesn't get built inside a room but it gets built amongst fans. Only if there's connect with fans, the game can get stronger. If you continue to deliver what the fans are not excited about then slowly the fans will begin to lose heart and the game will begin to get weaker. And nobody monitors the pulse and mindset of the fans more than us. Therefore while it may be easy to reject our point of view in this matter, the fact is we are actually a good barometer of the game.
 
 
 
 
 The minimum price has already been fixed for each match that the bidder has to pay .Now, can the value for an India-Australia series be the same as that for an IndiaZimbabwe game? Is it the same for a Test with Bangladesh as it would be for an ODI or T20 with England or Australia? We have no clarity on any of this. So, on what basis does a potential bidder walk into this?
 
 
 
 In the current contract, there's an IndiaPak series scheduled. It is clear that the series may not go through because of the situation between the two countries. Now, if you replace an India-Pak series with an India-Zimbabwe or Sri Lanka series, what happens? Only two sets of people get impacted: the fans and those people who are committed to a set of commercial value.
 
 
