HYDERABAD: The high court on Thursday appointed a committee comprising its registrar (judicial) and officials of revenue and HMDA to conduct a field level inspection on April 1 of the alleged illegal constructions in government land by a private realtor in Devathalagutta area near Balapur in Ranga Reddy district. 

 The bench comprising acting Chief Justice   and Justice Shameem Akhter made this interim order while dealing with a PIL filed by   vice president N Ramreddy who has alleged inaction of the authorities in preventing the realty firm, Pride India Builders, from constructing on the government land.
 
 The bench said the committee has to ascertain whether the constructions are legal or illegal and submit a report to the court along with photographs.
 
 The bench directed the Rachakonda police commissioner to provide necessary security to the committee in view of the report of joint collector that the private persons are indulging in physical attacks on revenue officials whenever they tried to visit the place.
 
 The bench directed the  , which has been taking up construction activity on Devatalagutta, to extend the necessary cooperation. The bench cautioned that the real estate firm will have to face severe consequences if it obstructs the inquiry. 
 
 PSP  , counsel appearing for the petitioner, told the court that Pride India Builders Ltd was constructing villas by demolishing temples and other structures in 150 acres of government land and also in the property belonging to some private individuals. Even the HC status quo order was being misinterpreted by the builder, he said. "Any attempt by officials to set things right is being violently resisted by the realty firm," he said. 
 
 HMDA counsel Rama Rao too raised objections to illegal constructions. The counsel for the builders denied undertaking illegal activity. The bench questioned state's special counsel B   on what the state was doing when their officers were attacked. The counsel replied that they were booking criminal cases. The case will be heard again on April 6.
 
 
