KOLHAPUR: Architects and engineers have joined the chorus of opposition to the draft   (RP) saying that it does not conform to the Union government guidelines and has been done with inadequate field surveys.

 The first RP for the district was drafted 40 years ago in 1978. The decision to draft the new RP was taken in 2006. After several rounds of consultations with several stakeholders, the process to draft the RP was completed last year and it was put up for suggestions and objections. 
 
 The deadline for submitting the suggestions and objections for finalising the RP ends this month. The   (AAE) have raised 12 objections in the plan. 
 
 Architect   city said, “The plan has not been drafted as per the urban and regional development plans formulation and implementation (URDPFI) guidelines as it does not have balance between the land use patterns proposed for residential, commercial and industrial purposes.”
 
 “The provision of open spaces, gardens, health and sport facilities have not been made. Further, there are serious flaws in the provisions made for transport, traffic, roads and railways. We have stressed that the RP lacks adequate emphasis on development of tourism facilities. Moreover, residential zones have been allowed at places that have restriction for any development,” he added.
 
 The plan suggests development of 'Growth Centres' at 20 places in the district for the direct benefit of 124 villages. A parallel road between   and   districts along with setting up of five new industrial hubs has been proposed. Experts claim that the plan does not recognise conventional industries of the district in the plan. 
 
 “We have suggested that the emphasis should be on the traditional chappal-making, jaggery production and silver-making industries. The Growth Centres proposed in the RP do not have any provision for these industries,” said Raut.
 
 The experts have demanded that a township be developed near the city to reduce the strain on the existing infrastructure. 
 
 The township is necessary as the civic limits have remained unchanged for last 40 years and the proposal of merger of urbanised fringe areas is still under consideration.
 
 The district administration has received over 5,000 suggestions and objections over the plan and the committee appointed to clear the objections will have to clear the issues in two months before submitting the plan to the government. 
 
