TRICHY: It was acute shortage of water and a   which forced the city corporation to restrict daily supply of drinking water to alternate days from Monday. Down from the record 23 hours daily supply it has been maintaining, the move is seen as an attempt to reach water to the parched tail-end areas of the city. 

 From Monday, water would only be supplied on alternate days to the 60 wards of the city corporation. One half of the city would be supplied water on a day and next half the other day. This way, the civic body is planning to keep the supply going for a few more weeks with the ever-depleting drinking water supply. The decision of the city corporation has come after a month-long deliberation and analysing the drought and available water source. 
 
 As of now, water is continuously pumped out for 23 hours a day to meet the increasing drinking water needs of the residents. With no scope for recharge of  , the civic body has started planning for the inevitable. While it cannot afford daily supply if it has to maintgain the supply for a few more weeks, the decision indicates that things may turn worse in August and September. Residents have urged the civic body to ensure sufficient supply for daily use. 
 
 City corporation commissioner  . admitted that the move to supply water on alternate days was to ensure supply across the city. “Of late we found that water is not reaching the overhead tanks (OHT) in the tail-end areas of the city because of drop in yield. By ensuring supply of water on alternate days, we expect to make water available in these tail-end areas,” he said. 
 
 Drinking water crisis was looming large in January itself over the disappointing spell of north east monsoon and it was feared that supply could be maintained only till January end. Rolling out plans to rejuvenate the existing water head works and explore additional water sources, the civic body had spent over Rs 3 crore to improve yield that helped extend the supply so far. 
 
 “The situation was slightly better the previous year when we could ensure release of water from Mettur dam. The   check dam built across Cauvery too had some water but not this year,” said a senior official from the city corporation. 
 
 The dam was constructed to ensure percolation so that water sources in the river bed are recharged. As much as 144 million litres per day (MLD) of water is pumped from various infiltration wells dug in the Cauvery and   to cater to the drinking water needs of the city with over a population of 10 lakh. 
 
