New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal promised on Monday that if voted to power in the corporations, AAP would regularise all ad hoc civic workers. The three corporations have around 3,000 contract workers. 

 With just 20 days to go for the municipal elections, Kejriwal said at Poorvanchali-dominated Badli, “I called BJP councillors after becoming CM and asked them to keep Delhi clean. We gave them Rs 15,000 crore in two years for it. They siphoned it off.”
 
 Three of the five wards at Badli are with BJP and one with Congress. Delimitation has added a ward, Shradhanand Colony. AAP has won Badli in the last assembly polls. 
 
 The AAP candidates in the civic polls are new to electoral politics but have started campaigning in full force. “I do not know much about politics, but I know how to stand true to my promises,” said Anil Kumari, the candidate for Swaroop Nagar. Other candidates also echoed him. 
 
 At his first rally at the neighbouring Burari, Kejriwal had promised to waive off house tax, prompting BJP and Congress to claim that it would be impossible to implement. About Monday’s promise, a civic official said, “All of them will have to appear in competitive examinations and go through a selection board for securing a permanent job.” 
 
 In an area dominated by impoverished unauthorised colonies, Kejriwal also tried to highlight the “success” of mohalla clinics. “We will open one clinic in every mohalla. You can get free operation conducted in any private hospital in emergency and reclaim the cost of operation from the government. It happens nowhere in the country but in Delhi.” 
 
 He also spoke about his government’s decision to not allow any hike in school fees as well as to increase the minimum wage despite “non-cooperation from LG”. He added, “Sheila Dikshit always blamed lack of funds and BJP-led corporations rue lack of funds when the people demand something. Where did we get funds from? We checked corruption and we have surplus funds.” 
 
 He said that within one year, the corporations would start generating funds under the AAP leadership and the workers would get salaries on time. 
 
 The meeting, though attended by a sizeable crowd, lacked the enthusiasm seen at Burari.
 
