PANAJI: Growing up on the streets,   experienced a childhood devoid of security. Defying his limitations, he struggled through jobs as a  , bank worker and driver and made it from  .

 His journey led him from the streets of Mumbai to the city of Barcelona. Documenting his life through a multi-lingual play titled ‘Bombay to Barcelona’, Communicare Trust with Margaret Bosco Bal Sadan children’s home are celebrating Sheikh’s life.
 
 The railway stations of Mumbai were Sheikh’s home from the age of five to eight. This was until he and his sisters were found by Snehasadan home. After struggling through odd jobs, he penned his story in a book titled, ‘Bombay-Mumbai life is life; I am because of you’ which he self-published in 2012 and sold 13,000 copies in four years on the streets himself.
 
 He joined the home of Eustace Fernandes, the artist behind the red dot dress girl on the cover of Amul. “I worked for Fernandes as his Man-Friday. As a Christmas gift, I asked him to take me on a trip to Barcelona. That trip changed my life and I now make it a point to save money every year to travel to Spain and spend three months there,” he said.
 
 Sheikh now 36, runs a café called   Library Café which serves Spanish cuisine to street children for free. “I made Rs 55 lakh from my book, of which I used Rs 45 lakh to set up the café ,” he said.
 
 Nalini Elvino E Silva of Communicare Trust said, “ Bombay to Barcelona has a message not everyone needs to become a doctor or an engineer. There are many avenues to be explored. Amin Sheikh’s life is living proof of this.”
 
 Sheikh will be in Goa to interact with the children of Margaret Bosco Bal Sadan, 30 of which are acting in the play.
 
 The 45-minute multilingual play will be performed in English, Hindi and Spanish. It will be staged on February 18 at 6.30pm at Rosary College, Navelim. The second performance will be on February 21 at 7pm at Menezes Braganza Hall, Panaji. Entry is free. Passes are available at Magsons Supercentre outlets in Fatorda, Miramar, Café Bodega, Altinho Panaji and Rosary College, Navelim.
 
 
