LUCKNOW: Up to 60% of young voters in the age group of 18-30 years be it students or working professionals are enthusiastic about exercising their franchise in the in Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, noted a just-concluded survey conducted by  . Interestingly, many of the respondents said they would "seriously consider" many issues before selecting the candidate they are voting for. 

 "Climate and environment, corruption, cost of living, crime and security, education, healthcare, housing, infrastructure, jobs, social welfare together with safety and security are certain key election issues for young voters in the state," highlighted the ASSOCHAM survey conducted during the course of past fortnight.
 
 The ASSOCHAM survey also highlighted that youth in UP is politically active apart from being cosmopolitan, liberal and hopeful. Besides they are not bogged down by negativity and cynicism of election campaigns.
 
 DS Rawat, secretary general of ASSOCHAM said that efforts of the   together with campaigns being run across different media have significantly helped in raising awareness about importance of voting among youth and in building their opinion. "Young voters, together as a group can make a serious impact to the outcome, but ensuring their turnout is a bigger factor in this regard," he said.
 
 He added that considering that today’s young people are much better educated and are much more aware than previous generations of youth, even political parties are trying to woo them with much élan." 
 
 The ASSOCHAM Social Development Foundation interacted with about 2,500 people in the age group of 18-30 years during the course of past one month across 12 divisions of UP – Agra, Aligarh, Allahabad, Chitrakoot, Faizabad, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Lucknow, Meerut, Moradabad, Saharanpur and Varanasi. The survey was aimed to gauge if youths in the state are aware of their voting rights and about the importance their votes hold in selection of the state government.
 
 Overall, almost 60% of the total representatives said they are gung ho about the elections and plan to use their democratic rights as many of them felt that if you choose not to vote, you automatically waive your right to complain.
 
 Many said that elections help them in connecting with the news as you follow politicians and key policy initiatives. Some of them even felt it is essential that young people take advantage of their right to vote as it helps creating a future that aligns with their fundamental beliefs thereby setting a precedent for future generations.
 
 Of the remaining 40%, about 15% respondents said they are undecided and have yet not made up their mind as to whether they will go for voting or not but they are surely keeping a track of elections through social media platforms.
 
 While about 10% said they do not think anything is going to change even if they vote as all political parties are the same and that their vote will not make a difference as such they would utilise their valuable time in doing something more constructive.
 
 About 5% said they do not feel very strongly about elections as they are not aware about the issues and they do not have much at stake. While the remaining said they would rather treat the voting day as a holiday. Certain reasons that people gave for abstaining from participating in elections are - lack of knowledge, not feeling represented by any of the parties or candidates, not being able to tell the parties apart, and not feeling that their vote counts.
 
