One of the important directives in the New Year that has got everyone talking and contemplating is the announcement made by the Department of Consumer Affairs, according to which hotels and restaurants in the country will henceforth need to disseminate information through display at the venue that the   is discretionary and voluntary, and a consumer who is dissatisfied with the service can choose to have it waived. These charges often vary between 5%-20%, and are applied over and above the food cost. While the news has been welcomed by a large group of people who think that through this the wait staff now expect to get better tips from customers, the ambiguity that usually surrounds the whole tipping culture, as to whether or not the money lands in the deserving person’s pocket, does not seem to be cleared yet.   takes stock of the situation…

 
 
 While the whole country is still trying to come to terms with the consequences of the central government’s big move to scrap `1,000 and `500 notes, many have already stopped paying tips to waiters as smaller denomination notes have became dearer. In a situation like this, the advantages of the   waiver may not get distributed well at every level of employment. Speaking about the effect of demonetization on his tips, Chethan Kumar, a waiter at a café in the city, says, “Earlier, regular customers used to tip me `100-`150. But after demonetization, all the tips have stopped; receiving just `10 became a big thing. It’s only in the last 3-4 days that my regular customers have begun tipping me again.” However,  , a café owner in the city, begs to differ. He says, “We have not seen any reduction in tips at our eatery. This is because 80-85% of our business is on credit cards. And 90%-95% of the tips are still given in cash.”
 
 
 
 “The regulation should be applicable to every service-oriented industry and not limited to the hospitality sector alone,” feels socialite Rubi Chakravarti. “When we pay the bill at a restaurant, it is for the overall experience, which covers food, ambience, amenities and service. Levying an amount as tax over and above that becomes a forced thing, which, as a customer, I may not appreciate. If the food served on my table is better than expected and the waiter’s behaviour and attention to detail is praiseworthy, then I would definitely tip him/her. There have been instances when customers pool money for a hefty tip. But making that a part of the bill is bullying. Things are unclear about the tipping regime,” she adds. According to Rubi, with the government introducing and scrapping rules every once in a while, and businesses defying them, the onus is on customers, who will either way have to bear the brunt of the situation.
 
 
 
 Partner of a premier North Indian and Continental food outlet, Saloni Rupani says, “If restaurateurs are forced to do away with this charge, most of them will simply raise prices by the same percentage to offset salary costs. This will only affect customers and not benefit them. A customer’s complaints regarding unsatisfactory services are always addressed and discounts and waivers are given on the bills now.” She adds, “If the government really wants to help consumers, it should reduce the tax burden on us so that the benefits can be passed on to our patrons.”
 
 
 
 But according to Glen, there will hardly be any change after the new directive, since people don’t mind paying a small percentage as service charge. He says, “People understand the cost of running a restaurant. Moreover, I don’t think that customers worry about spending a small sum like 7.5% of their bill amount. Diners must now be warned in the beginning itself about the service charge, and those who don’t want to pay, can help themselves to the service. We see people who sit at our café for three hours, asking the waiter repeatedly to bring them ice or water, or telling them to deliver things to their cars. They don’t pay for any of this. If such people don’t want to pay for the service, then self-service is the way to go. Customers should be a little more appreciative of the service that they are getting.”
 On how the tips are split, he adds, “Tips are distributed according to seniority and performance. The service charge came about so that there is management supervision over the tips, and to ensure that there is even distribution. But those who perform better, do get an additional amount.”
 
 
 
 When asked about the legal implications of restaurants still mandating service charge, Nitin Gaur, advocate, consumer affairs, tells us, “The department of consumer affairs, in the notification, has asked restaurant owners to display information about the service charge not being mandatory, and that it will only be paid at the customers’ discretion. The restaurants/bars’ monopolistic approach of informing dinners beforehand — that if they want to dine, the service charge will be applicable, or else services cannot be provided by them — is totally arbitrary and illegal, diluting the intent of the notification, which gives powers to the customer to judge the services and pay service charge. Unless this notification is either stayed or quashed by any court in India, the restaurants/bars cannot deny customers from availing their services solely on the grounds of payment of service charge.”
 
 
 
 
  is a tax levied by the   on services provided. In general, the Service Tax (including   and  ) applicable from June 1, 2016 has become 15% of the total amount.
 
  is an amount that’s added to the bill in a restaurant, or other similar establishment, which is normally paid to the staff.
 
 
 
 Apart from the food price, a bill generally includes
 Swachh Bharat Cess 0.2%
 Krishi Kalyan Cess 0.2% 
 Service Tax Ideally, 5.6% (it is imposed only on 40% of the value of the bill that is believed to be the standard service expense)
 VAT This differs from state to state. There are two ways in which a restaurant can charge the 14.5% VAT (in Karnataka) — either separately or as composite with the rate of the food items on the menu card. Once GST (Goods and Services Tax) comes into play, the bill will only have GST and service charge (if the management decides to charge)
 
 — With inputs from Lakshmi V, Meghna Mukherjee and Divya Kaushik
 
