PANAJI: In an hour-long formal discussion, Portugal Prime Minister   and Goa chief minister   made a promise to pursue closer ties between the former colonial power and the state with special focus on tourism and  .

 “For me, at my age, we have to take advantage of the common heritage for everything that it can bring for us in the future. This is a unique opportunity because we have known each other for years, not to say centuries,” Costa told TOI.
 
 Costa, who has roots in Goa, is on a three-day official visit to Goa and is also scheduled to visit his ancestral home in Margao. He is accompanied by a high-level delegation of Portugal including minister of culture   Mendes, minister of science, technology and higher education Manuel Heitor.
 
 Parsekar paid a courtesy call to Costa at the residence of the consul-general of Portugal in Goa, Rui Carvalho Baceira. The chief minister was accompanied by deputy chief minister Francis D’Souza, chief secretary Dharmendra Sharma and special secretary to chief minister Ameya Abhyankar.
 
 “We discussed the long-standing ties between Goa and Portugal. We also deliberated on some areas of interest where Portugal and Goa can help each other, especially in the field of heritage, tourism, oceanography and Portuguese language,” Parsekar said to reporters after the meeting.
 
 Costa appeared keen on promoting twinning of cities in the two countries. “There is a lot of possibility of twin cities. From Portugal’s side we are ready,” Costa said. Both Goa and Portugal are keen to boost tourist flow between the two regions, especially for Goa, which is keen on sustaining its share of foreign tourists coming to India.
 
 Portugal has suggested tourism, preservation of heritage, sanitation, water management, education, ocean sciences, and renewable energy as areas of interest. Parsekar said that Goa could look towards Portugal to jointly collaborate on information and technology, solar energy and tourism. 
 
  Costa visited the   (NIO) and expressed keen interest in extending the joint research programs between NIO and Portuguese research institutions. 
 
 
