HYDERABAD: The tallest commercial project in the ‘City of Pearls’ and the country’s largest is all set to rise in the happening IT hub of  . At over 21 storeys tall and 10 million sft in size, The   is also touted to have the most expensive price tag for any commercial project in the city — $1 billion. 

 The project is being developed by diversified homegrown conglomerate   in partnership with Bengaluru-based real estate biggie RMZ Corp. The much vaunted project is already learnt to have caught the fancy of some of the major global corporates such as JPMorgan Chase & Co and HSBC.
 
 Sources at My Home Group confirmed that they are in advanced stages of discussions with players JP Morgan Chase & Co and HSBC for leasing space in The Skyview. The company has also got feelers from half a dozen players who are keen on making the upcoming premium office space in Hi-Tec City their new address.
 
 The Skyview project was conceptualised by My Home Group during the first half of 2013. It took over two years to get all the necessary clearances and finalise the partner. 
 
 “We have already got the financial closure for this project and have set up the special purpose vehicle (SPV) — Divija Commercial Properties — that will implement this project. The Phase 1 of the project will have two towers coming up on 1.5 million sft space each. While one tower will be an SEZ (special economic zone) area, the other will be non-SEZ space,” My Home Constructions Pvt Ltd vice-president (finance), Srinivas Rao, told TOI.
 
 Confirming that the key USP of the project is that it will be the tallest in the commercial segment in the city, he said it will have ground plus 21 floors in addition to a five-level basement parking. Veera Babu, managing director- Hyderabad at real estate consultancy firm Cushman & Wakefield too confirmed that The Skyview is the tallest commercial project proposed so far in the city.
 
 The office project, which is being set up in 50:50 partnership between My Home Group and RMZ Corp, is spread across 10 million sq ft. The first phase will cover 3.5 million sq ft and is expected to be completed by end of 2018. On rentals, the company did not divulge details, but said they will be “competitive”. 
 
 Manoj Menda, corporate chairman, RMZ Corp, said, “This project is expected to be a location of choice for many MNCs and is earmarked for technology, research and development and high value added knowledge intensive companies…. We invest in properties located in economically strong locations that offer an opportunity for value appreciation.”
 
 
