BENGALURU: A customs officer attached to the   (KIA) was arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on charges of helping gold smugglers by creating easy passage for the  . Another officer is under probe and is likely to be arrested if any   is found.

 The officers were trapped after two smugglers were caught while attempting to slip out of KIA with gold jewellery worth Rs 6.5 crore and weighing 16kg on Friday morning.
 
 Sources identified the arrested officer as D Ashok, 51, from Mysuru, a superintendent in   who is posted at KIA. Earlier, two gold smugglers John Williams (50) and Chandrasekar (52) were arrested with the gold after they landed at KIA on an  .
 
 “The DRI unit from Kochi had specific information on the smuggling. It reached KIA on Friday morning and began monitoring passengers. When Williams and Chandrasekar disembarked from the flight and walked out of the airport with their bags, the team rounded them up,“ said a senior investigating officer.
 
 The DRI unit, along with its counterparts in Bengaluru, detained the two passengers. Inspection of their check-in baggage revealed nearly 20kg of gold jewellery in crude form as bangles and chains. “Bengaluru customs officers Ashok and Srinivas were detained by the DRI team. Preliminary investigations revealed Ashok's involvement, following which he was arrested and remanded in judicial custody,“ a source from DRI Kochi said.
 
 Although Srinivas was let off, he hasn't been given a clean chit yet. He remains under the surveillance of DRI. It has come to light that Ashok had facilitated smuggling attempts through KIA earlier also, sources added.
 
 
 
 
 Investigation revealed that Williams and Chandrasekar, who are   respectively, have been residents of Bengaluru for nearly 20 years. The duo left Bengaluru for Dubai on September 13 and returned with the gold two days later. Sleuths suspect the duo to be part of a large gold smuggling racket operating in Bengaluru with links to Kerala, which has strong connections with Ashok and possibly other officials.
 
