Panaji: Standing six feet tall,   has been a pillar of strength for   since its inception in 2014. After a shaky start in the Indian Super League last season, the talented goalkeeper rose from the ashes to prove his potential again although the team, coached by Brazilian legend  , finished at the bottom of the standings.
 
  The Goa-based franchise, under new owners, opted to tie down the keeper along with Mandar Rao Desai, before the Indian player draft likely to be scheduled for July 23. The duo are the only surviving members of the team from the inaugural season.
  
  Kattimani has decided to put all his ups and downs behind him and start afresh in the fourth edition. He is determined to strive to cement his place in the starting eleven under new head coach   Rodriguez.
  
  “It feels great to be back with FC Goa which has been very close to my heart. It feels good to play for our Goan home team in front of our own crowd. I love playing for FC Goa. I know my first match last season wasn’t so good but I never lost my confidence and kept working hard at practice everyday and came back stronger. I also had great support from my team and our coaching staff which motivated me throughout,” said Laxmikant Kattimani.
  
  The Cansaulim lad gave FC Goa the edge when he gained Zico’s confidence ahead of Portuguese Elinton Andrade in the second season where they were inches away from lifting the title on home soil, only to lose closely to Chennaiyin FC 2-3 in the final.
  
  With only five foreigners in the starting eleven in the fourth edition from the previous six, Indian goalkeepers have been in high demand and Kattimani’s presence will certainly help FC Goa in a big way.
  
  “I’m keeping myself fit and getting ready for the upcoming season. I can say only one thing that FC Goa will try hard to win the title this year,” said the 28-year-old who has always admired Czech Republic custodian Petr Cech.
  
  The shot-stopper has made 25 appearances for the club and brought off 95 saves. Last season, Kattimani was loaned in the I-League to Mumbai FC who ended up being relegated. The sprightly custodian, however, picked up many positives from the stint.
  
  Kattimani has already represented the India U-19 and U-23 teams and dreams of making the senior side one day. He endeavours to keep calm and concentrate on training everyday by learning from each match.
  
  Kattimani just can’t wait to get under the bar at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda where he has fond memories. “It’s an amazing feeling to play in front of our home crowd as our Goan fans’ support is unbelievable. I would like to thank all our fans and would like to request them to keep supporting us as they have been doing for the past three years.”
