NAGPUR: More than 1000 patients at the RSPM   college underwent root canal surgery through dental microscope, an advance technology adopted by the   in its centre of excellence. During March 2016, the college staff and students were trained in the use of   in a webinar, following which the centre had begun.

  The college, on Sunday, had organized a more intense training session conducted by Dr Vivek Hegde, vice principal and department head of conservative dentistry and   at MA Rangoonwala college of  , Pune. 
 
 Total 20 students received hands on training on microscope, among which 10 students were from the college while others belonged to other parts of the country. Dr Hegde has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the college to train their students on the dental operating microscope (DOM) by routine visits.
 
 At present the college had one microscope, while it is planning to get couple more this year and expand the centre.Earlier, many patients had to be sent back because the doctors wouldn’t know how to perform certain procedure if it needed to be done in a very sensitive and interior part of the mouth. After adopting the microscope various procedures have become possible to perform.
 
 In a recent example Dr Pratima Shenoi, head of department, conservative dentistry and endodontics, told TOI, “A patient had come with perfectly done root canal with the basic technique, but was still experiencing pain and sensitivity. We then started exploring the tooth using microscope and it turned out that the patient had additional canal with nerve inside it which needed to be filled. In absence of microscope the dentist had missed it, as the extra canal could not be detected in the X-ray.”
 
 Dr Hegde told TOI, “The focus is upon making dental procedures minimally invasive The magnification will help the dentist in being more precise. Earlier mirror was used to perform some procedures while depending on tactile movements.”
 
 “Dentists reaching 35 and 40 generally face postural problems because of bending consistently. With this technique, the dentist can sit erect. In another advantage, even the patient can view the whole procedure being done live on the screen,” he said.
 
 
