Nagpur: In a major step towards eco-friendly Ganeshotsav and pollution abatement in water bodies, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started construction of immersion tank for idols at Gandhisagar lake situated in Central Nagpur. The tank will be first of its kind in the state as being constructed in the lake water to respect sentiments of the devotees and encourage them towards eco-friendly festival.

 Though delayed by seven years, the civic body has chosen a right place for construction of the tank. Gandhisagar lake comprises of a Visarjan Ghat. The tank is being built at the Visarjan Ghat itself to get total response from the devotees.
 
 On the lines of Sonegaon lake, the NMC will ban immersion of idols in the Gandhisagar lake totally after completing works of the tank.
 
 NMC in charge for lakes and rivers Mohammed Israil told TOI that the immersion tank will be the first in which big sized idols installed by Ganesh Mandals can also be immersed. 
 
 “It is a unique project and likely to become a role model for the state. We are constructing the tank within the lake. We will construct a good approach way from the road to tank. There are staircases having heritage status. We are accommodating the staircases in the project. Devotees can sit on the staircase and watch the immersions. Also we will facilitate a platform for performing puja before immersion of idols. Works have been expedited and plan is to ready the tank before upcoming Ganeshotsav,” he said.
 
 Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal along with the officials of NMC and police department inspected the under-construction tank on Saturday and directed to ensure completion before Ganeshotsav. This year, the festival will begin from August 25 (Ganesh Chaturthi) and end on September 5 (Anant Chaturdasi).
 
 The NMC through its private contractor has developed an embankment blocking the water into the site of tank. The water in the site was removed followed by commencement of the construction.
 
 Another major advantage for the NMC behind completion of the project is that the state government will approve the revised Gandhisagar rejuvenation plan. On March 17, 2010, the state environment department had approved the plan of Rs1.78 crore as against the proposal of Rs5 crore. The department suggested the NMC to complete the approved works for approving the total plan. Also, the NMC has submitted tourism development plan of Rs21 crore with the government that is also likely to get a nod after completion of rejuvenation plan.
 
 The NMC took seven years to plan and execute the works of immersion tank. The plan of Sonegaon and Gandhisagar lakes were approved at the same time. The government set deadline of two years to complete the plans of two lakes. Sonegaon lake rejuvenation plan completed in 2014 and that of Gandhisagar is still awaited.
 
 
