AJMER: The   has ordered a   of Rs 1.25 lakh to be paid to the family of a woman who was killed by a mob after branding her a   in early August this year in Kekeri block of the district.

 The matter was reported by TOI after the 15-year-old son of the deceased, who was locked in a room when the mob was lynching his mother in front of her house, reported the incident after witnessing it from his room.
 
 After the hearing, the president of the authority and district and sessions judge of Ajmer, Vishnu Dutt Sharma, issued the order granting compensation to the family.
 
 As per norms, the limit of compensation in such cases is Rs 5 lakh till the disposal of the case. Police had arrested five people in connection with the incident.
 
 As per the case, a mob consisting of both men and women took Kanya Devi forcibly out of her house, stripped her, put hot iron rods on her eyes and beat her to death. The victim was also forced to drink the water from the drainage.
 
 Kanya Devi’s son, 15-year-old Kaluram, was locked in a room in the house and witnessed the incident from the window. On the next day, the accused took her body away and conducted the funeral. They tried to hide the incident and threatened the family with dire consequences.
 
 The panchayat, which came to know about the incident, called an urgent meeting and slapped a penalty of some quintals of grains and other goods on the family of the accused. They also directed all the accused to take a dip in the holy Pushkar lake to wash off their sins.
 
 The matter was reported to Kekeri police station by Mahadev Raiger, the brother of Kanya Devi and resident of Shahpura, alleging that her relatives had killed his sister.
 
 Though the investigation was delayed due to political pressure, Kaluram pursued the matter.
 
 Later, the police arrested Pinki Raiger, Soniya, Mahaveer, Gopichand, a resident of Kadera village, as well as Chander Parkesh of Shahpura for murdering Kanya Devi. They recorded the statements of family members of the deceased and neighbours.
 
 
