AHMEDABAD: It’s the land of Katana, Samurai swords and also Ningyo (dolls). It’s the land of Karate and Origami in equal measure. The three-day 6th   that began on Friday promises it all and more to the visitor.

 Yoshiaki Ito, consul general of Japan in Mumbai, inaugurated the festival at   (AMA) on Friday evening. Rohit Patel, Gujarat minister of state for industries was the guest of honour.
 
 Mukesh Patel, president of Indo-Japan Friendship Association, Gujarat, said that the year 2017 is being celebrated as the Year of Japan-India Friendly Exchanges and Ahmedabad is proud to start the year with the Japan Festival.
 
 “The past five editions of the festival, starting from 2009, have been warmly received by the people of Ahmedabad. This has encouraged us to present different facets of Japanese culture and society every time we organize the festival,” Mukesh Patel said.
 
 Shoko Ito, celebrated Japanese playwright, director and actor, presented a special preview of her solo theatrical performance, ‘Samurai Grandma’. Yoshiaki Ito, the consul general, said the tie-up between Gujarat and Hyogo prefecture is the second tie-up between an Indian state and a Japanese province, the first being between Maharashtra and Wakayama. 
 
 “Today 163 Japanese nationals have made Ahmedabad their home,” Ito said. “This is a big jump from the small number who stayed here just three-and-a-half years ago. The region has around 100 Japanese companies functioning here.” 
 
 The consul general also discussed the impact of joint projects such as bullet train, and the tourist flow in both the countries. 
 
 ‘Sister state partnership a big step’ 
 
 Come April and Gujarat will start a new chapter in its relationship with Japan in the form of ‘sister state’ relationship with Japan’s Hyogo prefecture. The agreement was signed by Indian Prime Minister   and his Japanese counterpart,  , in November last year at Kobe, Hyogo’s capital city.
 
 Mukesh Patel, president of Indo-Japan Friendship Association, Gujarat, said that the partnership between the two regions started in 2007 when the then Gujarat chief minister met Toshizo Ido, governor of Hyogo, during his visit to Japan along with other dignitaries.
 
 Kobe is the capital of Hyogo prefecture. “Kobe has a sizeable Gujarati population and has long been considered a gateway to Japan for Gujaratis,” he said. 
 
 “Both the regions have a lot of similarities; hence it is a natural partnership. From April 1 to 10, a delegation from Gujarat is going to visit the prefecture to strengthen ties. The key areas would be partnerships in small and medium enterprises (SMEs) of Kansai region and cultural exchange,” Mukesh Patel said.
 
 Craft as prayer
 
 The exhibition has more than 100 dolls of various styles and era — ranging from traditional Kabuki and Noh theatre to those made by modern craftsmen. The doll exhibition also offers a glimpse of the unique styles of various Japanese regions such as Kokeshi, Hakata and Kyoto. There is also Hina Matsuri — doll festival in Japan — where families with daughters prepare elaborate dolls as a prayer for the happiness of their young daughters. Similarly there are ‘dolls for boys’ festival.
 
 
