KOLKATA: In a tragic accident, a four-and-a-half-year-old child plunged nearly 50 feet to her death from the fourth-floor of Turf View, a residential complex for Army officers opposite the   (RCTC) on Monday evening. The child’s mother works as a domestic help while her father is a motor mechanic. The family occupies the servant’s quarter attached to the official residence of a Brigadier-rank officer of the Army’s Eastern Command. 

 According to sources, Ankita Rajak’s mother locked her two children in their quarter and left for work around 4 pm. It seems that the girl’s 10-year-old brother fell asleep while she played on the bed. Before long, Ankita reached for the window next to the bed and succeeded in sliding back one of the panes. She then slipped through the grilles and was playing on the sill outside when she fell. Somebody on the ground floor, probably an officer, spotted the child   and rushed her to   (CMRI) where she was declared dead on arrival. 
 
 “While returning home from work, the child’s mother heard of the incident but never felt that it was Ankita who had fallen. After unlocking the room of her quarter, she found the girl missing and woke up her son. The boy had no clue of Ankita’s whereabouts. This was when the woman spotted the open window and realised that it was her daughter who had met with the accident. She summoned her husband Raju and the two rushed to CMRI. This was around 6.15 pm, nearly an hour after the girl was taken there,” the source added. 
 
 Turf View is a large complex with 19 multi-storeyed blocks. The block from which Ankita fell was 12-storeyed. There are 272 apartments within the complex but not all are occupied. Due to its size and the fact that entry and exit is restricted, the compound is largely deserted save for security personnel. Most residents weren’t even aware of the accident till later in the evening after which a pall of gloom descended within the complex.
 
 “We felt miserable. Most of us had seen the little girl with her mother,” an officer said. According to another officer, the space between the grilles on the windows are wider than normal. “This was probably done to allow a better view. However, this should work as an eye-opener. This is the first time such an accident has occurred,” he said.
 
 
 
 
