Bollywood celebrities including  , film director Sujoy Ghosh and   have wished "amazing"   Farah Khan on her 52nd birthday on Monday. 

 Her brother Sajid Khan, friends including Sonu Sood and Huma Qureshi among many others have wished her a year full of happiness, luck and laughter.
 
  
  
 Farah, who is a film director, producer, actress and choreographer, is best known for her choreographic work in numerous Hindi films. She has choreographed dance routines for more than a hundred songs in over 80 Hindi films. She has worked on international projects such as 'Marigold: An Adventure in India', 'Monsoon Wedding' and the Chinese film 'Perhaps Love'.
 
 She turned director with the 2004 film 'Main Hoon Na', which starred superstar Shah Rukh Khan, who she has been good friends with. In 2012, Farah made her film acting debut in a leading role in 'Shirin Farhad Ki Toh Nikal Padi', directed by Bela Bhansali Sehgal. The film also starred Boman Irani. 
 
 Farah trained Colombian singer   for a Bollywood version of her song 'Hips Don't Lie' for the MTV Video Music Awards in 2006 and has also choreographed Kylie Minogue for the song 'Chiggy Wiggy' in the 2009 movie 'Blue'. She has also choreographed legendary star   for a number for the forthcoming Sino-Chinese film 'Kung Fu Yoga', which also stars Sonu Sood, Amyra Dastur and Disha Patani.
 
 Here's what the celebrities tweeted on her birthday:
 
 Sajid Khan: Happy birthday   the greatest sister in the world...I know I'm a couple of hours early...But I wanted to be the first to wish you.
 
  
  Manoj Bajpayee: Happy birthday to you my friend and neighbour. Keep shinning! God bless you Farah Khan.
 
  
  Huma Qureshi: Happy Birthday my dearest Farah Khan come back jaldi need to a solid biryani burday love you loads.
 
  
  Jacqueline Fernandez: I wish you all the happiness in the world! Happy Birthday Farah Khan.
 
  
  Boman Irani: Happy birthday Farah Khan the most spirited person I know. A woman in a man's world, never rolling over, socking it, but always with love.
 
  
  Sonu Sood: Happy birthday Farah Khan...Someone I love the most. My family, my friend, my sister thanks for being the most special one.
 
  
  Vishal Dadlani: My deepest, most heartfelt love to one of the kindest, toughest, most caring people ever. Happy Birthday, Farah Khan! Have a stellar year!
 
  
  Sujoy Ghosh: Plus an amazing pulao maker.. happy birthday Farah Khan !
 
  
  Riteish Deshmukh: Dearest Faruuuu wishing you all the happiness and love--- big big hug - have a great one my dear.
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
