I’m sure you’ll agree with me that Chinese food is the world’s most adaptable cuisine. Of course, there’s Chinese-Chinese (I tasted it on my recent trip to China), American-Chinese, British-Chinese etc, and interestingly in Peru, I not only tasted Peruvian-Chinese but learnt that it has an official name — ‘Chifa’. In India, this chameleon cuisine takes the form of Jain-Chinese, South Indian-Chinese, Punjabi-Chinese and so on. I love the word ‘Chindian’ for this mixed-marriage. And just before leaving for Russia, I tasted a popular and delicious example of   at Thane’s  .

 
 
 Plonked on the trafficked road, this fairly small stand-alone restaurant is a pleasant surprise. Mirrors, wooden tables and a few potted plants complete the pleasant décor. No red lanterns and dragon clichés. Thankfully.
 
 
 
 The holy-trio staples of old-world “Chindian” are served here… Sweet Corn Chicken Soup, Spring Rolls and American Chop Suey. Happily, the flavour and even the texture of the Sweet Corn Soup is just right and delicious. Superb crispy Spring Rolls coddle a moist filling and whoa! The American Chop Suey is as chatpatta and crunchy and squishy as my American Chop Suey expert companion likes it. This globetrotting expert has rated Mumbai’s best American Chop Suey restaurants. Even the Roast Chicken meets with his nod of approval. Even though it’s not the Classic Roast Chicken, it is tasty. As is the dim sum, though the skins could 
 be thinner.
 
 
 
 No pork. No beef. No alcohol. Parking is difficult. The Pot Rice is too gooey and lacking in flavour. Stir-fry Veggies are chopped all wrong, overcooked and tasteless and the mushrooms taste of mothballs. Desserts are avoidable, especially the stodgy Chocolate Wontons.
 
 
 
 ‘Chifa’ is the official name for Chinese-Peruvian cuisine (I love it). ‘Chindian’ is our desi version. Why do we restaurant critics only praise the high-end and the rarefied? Or gee-whizz over molecular gastronomy? We downplay the downscale, but let’s correct that right now. Let’s pause to praise Chindian, especially when it is done well and is delicious. If it’s the wedding of Chinese cuisine to Indian flavours (moderately priced, too) that you’re looking for, then Oriental Spice is where you should head to. That’s of course if you’re in the vicinity of Thane.
 
