MUMBAI: Two days after he quit the Congress, former chief minister Narayan Rane appears to be moving closer to the BJP in view of the fact that party chief   has agreed to meet him in New Delhi on September 25. The BJP national executive meet is in New Delhi on Monday. “I will meet Amit Shah in New Delhi on September 25.A decision on whether to join the BJP or otherwise will be taken after that. I expect the CM, too, will be present at the meeting,'' Rane told TOI. In the event Rane's proposal is accepted, he plans to join BJP on October 10.

 The BJP leadership feels if Rane is admitted into the party fold, he is the only politician in the state who can directly take on  , particularly Uddhav Thackeray , who has raised a banner of revolt against Prime Minister  , Amit Shah and CM Devendra Fadnavis.
 
 Incidentally, senior BJP leader and revenue minister Chandrakant Patil and state NCP president Sunil Tatkare separately met Rane at his Nariman Point office on Friday. Both confirmed the development to TOI. “I met Rane and we discussed his entry into BJP, but a final decision will be taken by Amit Shah," Patil said, while Tatkare said it was a courtesy call and politics was not discussed. “Rane is planning to join BJP and I don't think that he has plans to join NCP," Tatkare said.
 
 In the recent past, when it was found that Shiv Sena was out to destabilise the Fadnavis government, it was felt Rane's entry would change the political situation.
 
 A senior BJP cabinet member said Rane had proposed his own induction into the state cabinet,   nomination for his son Nilesh from Sindhudurg-Ratnagiri and state assembly ticket for his younger son Nitesh, while the BJP leadership has proposed Rane should be nominated to the  , older son to legislative council and Nitesh to assembly. “The proposal has been approved by Amit Shah in the presence of the CM and state party chief Raosaheb Danve. Apparently , the CM is against Rane's induction in the cabinet and, hence, his entry into the BJP was delayed,'' he said.
 
