PUNE: A   will leave for Lakhimpur in Assam to record the statement of the arrested   Bhaben Sakia’s mother. Saikia had called her twice after allegedly murdering   Rasila Raju OP on January 29. 

 Deputy commissioner of police (Zone III) Ganesh Shinde told TOI, “A team will go to Lakhimpur to record Saikia’s mother’s statement. If she prefers visiting Pune to see her son, we can record her statement here too.”
 
 According to a police officer in the probe team, the mother’s statement could be crucial evidence considering that Saikia told his interrogators that he used his cellphone to call and inform her about having committed the murder.
 
 “We want to verify his claim and the conversation with his mother,” the officer said. Hinjewadi police’s senior inspector Arun Waykar recorded Saikia’s statement. 
 
 Rasila (24), a systems engineer, was found strangulated in an offshore dedicated centre (ODC) room located on the ninth floor of Infosys building in Hinjewadi phase-II around 8.30pm on January 29. 
 
 Saikia was identified as a suspect based on CCTV footage that showed him entering and exiting the ODC room, a restricted area, on several occasions between 5 and 7pm. Rasila, who was working alone in the ODC room, had reprimanded Saikia on Saturday for staring at her and warned that she would report him to the company’s security officer. Saikia told police that driven by the fear of losing his job, he killed Rasila.
 
 Police said Saikia made two calls to his mother following the murder. He told police that his mother told him to immediately surrender before the police. When he told her that he feared the police, his mother asked him to come to Assam and she will accompany him to Pune for his surrender. 
 
 After the murder, Saikia was present on the company premises for nearly an hour before leaving the place after his shift got over. Thereafter, he made another call to his mother. Saikia was nabbed early on Monday in Mumbai while he was about to board a train to Assam. 
 
 
