VARANASI: Large number of BJP supporters descended on the streets of Varanasi on Sunday as Prime Minister   held a roadshow in the city, the second in as many days. Varanasi goes to polls in the last phase on March 8.

 While the BJP hopes that PM's roadshow will woo the voters of his Lok Sabha constituency,   feels the show of strength will fail.
 
 "Ek roadshow kiya, wo fail ho gaya.. Ek aur karne ja rahe hain, wo bhi fail hoga, phir ek aur karenge... Ab roadshow karte karte kahin aur nikal jayenge.. (A roadshow was done..it failed. He is doing one more..it will also fail and then again a roadshow will be held...Now he will go somewhere else by doing his roadshow)," said Akhilesh while addressing a poll rally in UP's Sonebhadra.
 
 The Prime Minister first flew from the airport to the police lines in a special Indian Air Force chopper. A number of local BJP leaders greeted   at the helipad and presented him bouquets.
 
 PM Modi then made his way in a bulletproof car in a convoy to the Pandeypur area, from where the 5-km road show commenced.
 
 Thousands of supporters thronged the route along which PM Modi went. Carrying BJP flags and shouting 'Jai Shri Ram' and 'Har Har Modi, Ghar Ghar Modi', they waved at Modi, who acknowledged their greetings and waved back at them.
 
 Political analysts feel PM Modi's aggressive campaign may help the BJP in Varanasi, where the party faces stiff challenge from the SP-Congress combine.
 
 Factors like consolidation of opposition votes and well-entrenched rival candidates against BJP's perceived fumbling in picking its nominees have come together to make contests close in this high-profile seat.
 
 BJP President Amit Shah might have dismissed opposition's suggestions that multiple public events by Modi here besides deployment of a number of union ministers and top party leaders in campaigning is indicative of "desperation" in his ranks but it is clear that his party is going out of the way to ensure a good saffron show.
 
 "I am a little critical. There is an excess effort from the BJP and people can feel it. Everybody has a role and stature and I think it (Modi's numerous events) diminishes the Prime Minister's chair," said Ashok Kumar Upadhyay, professor of political science in Banaras Hindu University.
 
 He, however, said that the overdrive may end up helping the saffron party by winning over floating voters who are guided by the "wave".
 
 The BJP had won three of the five seats falling in the Varanasi parliamentary constituency in 2012 and has changed two of the three winners this time round.
 
 Neelkanth Tiwari is making his electoral debut replacing seven-time MLA Shyamdev Roy Chaudhari in Varanasi South seat and Saurabh Srivastava takes the baton from his mother Jyotsana Srivastava in Varanasi Cantonment. Both changes have not gone down well with sections of party cadres.
 
 The party leadership has worked overtime to placate Chaudhari, well-regarded for his affability and accessibility, with Shah reaching out to him.
 
 The change in Cantonment has invited allegations of dynasty politics as the Srivastava family has long held the constituency and even Saurabh Srivastava's late father was an MLA before his mother stepped in his shoes.
 
 In Varanasi North, Muslims are in substantial numbers and have rallied around the Samajwadi Party-Congress candidate and former MLA Abdul Samad Ansari.
 
 Ravindra Jaisawal of the BJP had won from here by a narrow margin and the combined votes of the two alliance partners has made matters difficult for him. 
 
 
 
 
