NEW DELHI: Even as India is trying to tweak abortion laws to protect women’s right to health and safe pregnancy, it may face a major crunch in international assistance following US President Donald Trump’s decision to reinstate the ‘global gag rule’, banning federal funding for organisations that work on  , including abortion. 

 Experts say India may lose US assistance to the tune of Rs 70 crore or even more impacting crucial health programmes, including those for women and child health, cancer screening and HIV programmes.
 
 “We use different streams of funding to carry out comprehensive health programmes that include many non-abortion schemes too. All of this is going to be impacted if the US decides to pull out funding,” said Kalpana Apte, secretary general of Family Planning Association of India (FPA). FPA provides post-abortion contraceptive counselling and follow-up services with doctors to about 2.1 million people across 18 states.
 
 The anti-abortion rule — introduced by Ronald Reagan in 1984 and implemented by every Republican government and renounced by Democratic administrations — prevents international organisations from receiving any US global health assistance for abortion services, even if abortion is legal in their country and they are doing so with their own funds or assistance from other non-US sources. Though such rules have been reinstated earlier as well, the impact of the latest decision would be felt more widely because it applies to all global health funding and not just money earmarked for reproductive health, experts say.
 
 The US invests roughly $20 million (nearly Rs 140 crore) each year in India in programmes that include family planning. However, these programmes also target tuberculosis, improved nutrition, sanitation and maternal health. “Funding for all of these is now subject to the gag,” Apte said. “We do not have direct funding from USAID. We receive it through International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF). However, we will be impacted because   will face significant reduction,” she said. 
 
 Nearly 22 million unsafe abortions are conducted worldwide every year. In India, 7 million abortions are conducted annually, nearly half of which are estimated to be illegal. According to WHO’s World Health Statistics (WHS) 2016, nearly five women die every hour in India due to complications during child birth.
 
 Though India has managed to reduce   (MMR) significantly, experts say non-government organisations working in this field are likely to face a major setback due to the gag rule.
 
 Experts say India may lose US assistance to the tune of Rs 70 crore impacting crucial health programmes, including those for women and child health, cancer screening and HIV programmes.
 
 
