The finance minister presented a   proposal to spend about Rs 21.5 lakh crore of your money in the next fiscal year. Of this, the single biggest component, as always, is interest payment on past debt, which is about Rs 5.2 lakh crore. However, the   has been remarkably capped at 3.2% of GDP, which will bring good cheer to fiscal fundamentalists. It would mean that the government will borrow a gross amount of Rs 5.8 lakh crore this year, adding to the already large debt mountain. To the extent that this extra debt goes to finance creation of new infrastructure, which will help future generations, it is good quality spending. Indeed a record Rs 3.9 lakh crore has been allocated to be spent on infrastructure such as roads, railways, airports and ports. 

 The deficit and the debt is never going away, but so long as it is sustainable and funding productive assets and public goods (like roads), it is a good thing. That sustainability calls for a limit on the fiscal deficit ratio, which is a healthy 3.2% of GDP next year. This means less borrowing pressure on the banking system, causing interest rates to remain soft enough. That would be good news for new borrowers like home loans and small businesses. Both these constituencies got some goodies from the FM. Affordable housing gets higher interest subsidy, and small businesses (companies) are now subject to a lower corporate   rate. Lower interest rates would also mean lower yields on government bonds, bringing higher profits to bank treasuries. Banks will be happy as they can use these profits to tackle bad loans provisions.
 
 Overall, the Budget aims to increase spending by around 6% although national income will go up by around 12% (in nominal rupee terms). In that sense, there is sensible spending restraint. The direct tax revenues are expected to rise by 15% even though tax rates have actually been reduced. How is that possible? Because of greater tax compliance. In his speech, the FM said, “India is largely a tax non-compliant economy.” What he meant is that we have one of the lowest tax-to-GDP ratios, and further made worse because the share of direct taxes compared to indirect taxes is even lower. The direct tax net can be widened, thanks to new information coming from bank deposits, which surged post demonetisation. Preliminary investigation has revealed some 18 lakh individuals whose huge bank deposits do not tally with their known sources of income. So at some stage they will all enter the tax net.
 
 The Budget proposal of about Rs 1.9 lakh crore to farm and rural sector is very welcome. India cannot make a significant dent on poverty without increasing farmers’ incomes, which the government aims to double in five years. The model law on contract farming will help enable flow of credit to tenant farmers too, who make up 30% of farming. In fact, the goal of crossing Rs 10 lakh crore of farm loans is commendable. 
 
 Finally, this is the first Budget to have mentioned the issue of transparency in political funding. In its fight against black money, the government cannot ignore the issue of unaccounted money in politics. Hopefully, this sunshine will eventually mean that political parties will also come under the ambit of RTI.
 
 The author is chief economist,  
 
 
