Reacting to the recent incident involving a south actress being kidnapped and assaulted, leading ladies share their fears...

 When I got to know about this incident, it scared me. Until then, I personally never bothered about the driver’s identity. In fact, the car is where we are most carefree. We try to catch a quick power nap, we rest and are 
 usually ourselves when we are travelling. Now, I will have to be doubly aware and forego those power naps. What is scary is that there is no institution that teaches someone how to respect women. Those who will do wrong, will do wrong anyway 
 —  
 
 This is indeed very shocking and I am obviously saddened. I never imagined that this could happen to an actor, someone who is in the public eye always. More so, this should never happen to any woman. Actresses have to travel at odd hours often because of shoots, and to remote locations, too. We travel always hoping that nothing unfortunate happens to us. Many times, heroines travel alone, if they have staff then it is a blessing. All said, this incident angers me beyond words
 — Priya Mani
 
 Cars are the safest places for heroines. We use it to rest and even do basic touch-up to our makeup. Heroines travel with a basic entourage usually — in my case it is my mother, assistant and driver. But, incidents like these make us worried. Imagine, someone stops the car and threatens us. I don’t think I can feel safe anymore, I am scared. Even now, we will look at knee-jerk reactions like, say, a production vehicle following our cars, rather than nip the problem from the bud
 —  
 
 This incident proves that there is no way to keep yourself safe. I was gifted a pepper spray by my co-stars,   and  , during the shoot for my debut film years ago, and, after Saturday, most of my 
 co-actors called on me to inquire if I carry that spray along. The problem is whatever we do or don’t, even if it involves making ourselves stronger physically and mentally, we are left wondering who to trust. I am now more paranoid than ever before
 — Kriti Kharbanda
 
