PATNA: Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) positive patients will not have to wait for treatment at antiretroviral therapy (ART) centres in Bihar till the time their immunity drops to the level of being called people with  . Following the Centre’s guideline, the state health department will make available ‘test and treat’ facility to the people from the day they are detected  . 

 HIV targets and destroys CD4 T cells that strengthen immunity in a person.   positive patients, whose CD4 cell count is below 400, are treated free of cost at ART centres in Bihar. Patients with a CD4 count below 200 are susceptible to develop serious illnesses. 
 
 “Now, as soon as a person is tested and found HIV positive, s/he will be eligible for ART irrespective of his CD count or clinical stage. This will help save patients from many opportunistic infections. Patients will be monitored after every six months,” said Bihar State Aids Control Society’s (BSACS) care and support treatment’s joint director Dr Basuki Nath Gupta. 
 
 “Although all HIV positive patients, irrespective of their CD4 count and asymptomatic infection will now be eligible for ART, all the treatment protocols will be followed. Before we start ART, we test the patient to rule out all opportunistic infections. If the patient is suffering from any sort of infection, in most cases it is tuberculosis, then we treat him for that infection first before starting ART,” said Dr Mukul Kumar of the ART centre at Patna Medical College and Hospital.
 
 He said early treatment increases immunity and the longevity of the patient and reduces the chances of getting opportunistic infections in future.
 
 Dr Diwakar Tejaswi, who is the medical director of Regional AIDS Training Centre and Network and a member of  , said although this strategy had been implemented by WHO and other internal societies 3 years back, the Indian government move is welcomed.
 
 “Early treatment reduces the morbidity and mortality rate significantly. Treating a patient early means we may be able to keep the person immune from TB and fungal infections. Also, the viral load becomes nearly undetectable in the blood, thus reducing the transmission to almost zero,” said Tejashwi. He said the patient would be getting treatment even before he suffers any illness due to HIV. “It is cost effective and suppresses the disease from spreading” he added.
 
 
