A   is opposing the transfer of a   who died eight years ago to her daughter, who has claimed that the management is hostile to her   and is blocking the transfer because it wants to keep   adopted by her out of the society gates.

 Defending the society management, a chair-holder said off the record that she insulted them by calling them “animals” when asked to produce certain documents, so they went up against her. 
 The animal rights worker, 35-yearold Aarti Agrawal Gupta, has moved the deputy registrar of societies and sought an order in favour of the transfer of the Rs 1crore flat at Shree Gitanjali Housing Society, but the latter has appealed against the order.
 
 Aarti’s mother, Uma Agrawal, had bought the apartment — now occupied by Aarti and her husband Sudhanshu — before she died in 2009 of cardiac problems. Aarti said the family decided to transfer the house in her name but the society management is throwing a spanner in the works because they dislike the fact that she has adopted stray cats.
 
 “When we first approached the society committee in 2011, they claimed there was no proof that I wasn’t trying to usurp the property from my brothers. So my father and both my brothers handed them a written letter stating that the house should belong to me. But they refused to transfer the flat,” Aarti said.
 
 The same year the couple approached the Deputy Registrar of Societies which, after multiple hearings, passed an order in favour of the transfer. The managing committee in turn filed for a review of the order and the matter went back to court in 2012.
 
 The happened one more time after which, in May 2014, the deputy registrar passed a final order that the flat had to be transferred to her. “After the order, the authorities confiscated the society’s books and forcefully recorded the transfer,” Aarti said.
 
 The couple said that in 2012, the society stopped taking maintenance charges from them: their cheques and bank drafts were returned. “They do not accept the money and instead show us as defaulters. This has been going on for five years and the dues are over Rs 43,000,” Aarti said.
 
 Sudhanshu alleged the society is brick-walling the transfer because of his wife’s activism for animals. “They believe all animals should be kept out of society gates or abused if they get in. But my wife is a certified animal welfare activist. She has rescued countless cats that were abused by these people,” he said.
 
 An animal welfare NGO backed Sudhanshu’s charge. According to activist Nirali Karodia of the  , animals have been known to be ill-treated on the society’s premises. “In 2012, a cat was murdered in the society. Then, some cats were locked in the metre room by unknown people. The society has constantly harassed Aarti and Sudhanshu for being animal lovers. It is possible that they are raising these hurdles because they don’t want the couple working for animals,” she told Mumbai Mirror when contacted for comment.
 
 The Guptas also said they had raised their voice against the cutting of trees in the society compound once, which irked the management.
 
 Management committee secretary Behram Khambata refused to take our calls or meet us at his house and office. Other chair-holders also declined comment. This reporter did manage to speak to a senior chair-holder who, on the condition of anonymity, said: “Aarti has grown up in front of us. But when we asked her to submit the papers, she refused to give us the original, calling us animals who would eat the papers away. The misbehaviour made us pursue the matter in the court.”
 
 “Our lawyer suggested that till the matter is sub-judice we shouldn’t take the maintenance charges,” he said.
 
 
