LUDHIANA: City police arrested a man impersonating as a DSP (Vigilance) on Saturday evening. According to information, posing as a cop, he had been calling different police post in-charges and station house officers for the past few days, demanding money. The accused had gone to the bus stand police post and asked for money from the cops. But as the cops were already alerted, they caught him red-handed. He was identified as   (38), a  .

 Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-III)   said: “For the past couple of days, the man was calling up cops, stating that he had got some complaint against them, but if they gave him money, he would not recommend any action against them. He turned out to be a con.”
 
 Posing as a DSP, he also met some cops on Friday, who however got suspicious. They informed their senior officials and all planned a trap for him. A police official disclosed that the trap was laid under the impression that the caller was DSP Vigilance, who was asking for a bribe. But during questioning, he failed to give any information about his background. Subsequent verification from the   too confirmed that the man indeed was a conman who was posing as DSP.
 
 On Saturday, the man was called at the bus stand police post to collect his money. As soon as he reached there, he sat on the chair of the police post in-charge, and asked for Rs 5,100 to arrange for some community food. He was given only Rs 4,000, with two currency notes of Rs 2,000 each. The police post in-charge had already noted the serial number of currency notes, and meanwhile, ADCP Lamba reached there and caught him taking the bribe. Division No. 5 police have booked him under sections 420 (cheating), 419 (cheating by impersonation), and 170 (impersonating a public servant) of the IPC.
 
 Even after he was booked, the man did not accept his crime. He kept claiming he was a private detective and doing a sting on corruption in the police department. Police are further probing if he was involved in similar crimes earlier, and had any accomplices. 
 
 
 
 
  advised that if anyone gets a call in which an official asks for some kind of settlement, one should always insist on meeting that person in the office. “If he agrees to meet in the office, that means he is actually an official. Further, people can also report to the police about it. Three days back, I got a call from a pharmacist known to me, who said a person named Ashok Kumar -- claiming to be DSP Vigilance -- wanted to meet him somewhere, saying he had got a complaint against the pharmacist.”
 
