AHMEDABAD: There was no way the locals could mistake the Polish kids for the English when they arrived at Nawanagar in 1942 – the Polish children were not prim, proper and well-fed like their English counterparts. Most didn’t have shoes, helping them assimilate with the local kids who went barefoot and forge friendships.

  Wieslaw Stypula, octogenarian from Poland, recounted his time at Balachadi as the film unit shot a few scenes at Diwanji ni Haveli in vintage backdrop in the   on Thursday. Stypula is among the few surviving Polish nationals who had been given refuge in Balachadi from 1942 to 1946.
 
 “The Jamsaheb provided us with everything – music teachers to special cooks. He influenced us all. I can still recite parts of ‘Jay Jay Maharaj’ (state anthem of Nawanagar.),” said Stypula. 
 
 “What I remember the most are the games we used to play. While local players used to beat us heavily in hockey, we were better at volleyball and equals at football – a sport where there also used to be English members,” Stypula added.
 
 The producers of the docu-drama said that they shot with the child actors representing the Polish kids of 1940s. “We shot at Jambuda, a village near Balachadi, on location with local kids. We could also trace a few persons associated with the Polish Children’s Camp,” said  , co-producer of the project.
 
 The team believes in making history approachable for young viewers. Their earlier venture, ‘A Brave Bunch’ on looking at 1944 Warsaw Uprising from children’s perspective, has won numerous international awards including those at Indian film festivals.
 
 “The Jamnagar Children’s Club not only kept the survivors together in Poland, but also reached out on occasions such as 2001 earthquake. The legacy of the historic event lingers on as a square in Warsaw is named after Jamsaheb. In fact, one of the best-known schools of Polish capital is also named after the Maharaja which is my alma mater,” said Pregowska.
 
 Earlier, a Polish-Indian film ‘Little Poland in India’ has also documented the experiences of Polish nationals who took refuge in India during World War II.
 
