THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As the   gets set to unroll new tax regime and   system in the city, the ruling council is considering introducing tax relaxations for households which undertake decentralized waste management.

 Mayor VK Prasanth has directed the revenue officer to submit a report on probable financial implication of introducing   for waste management at home.
 
 In 2013, the civic body had formally approved the decision to introduce tax relaxation at rates of 1% for houses with bio-compost units and 2% for houses with biogas plants based on a government order issued in 2012 which directed local bodies to relax tax up to 10% for the promotion of decentralized waste management. Although the health standing committee had undertaken source-level waste treatment campaign between 2013 and 2015, the revenue wing did not take forward the proposal to incorporate tax with waste management at home. 87,000 pipe compost units and 1,749 domestic bio-gas plants were set up in various households in the city since 2013 but no relaxation in tax was awarded to any households.
 
 The civic body is all set to introduce 15,500 kitchen bins in households at an installation cost of Rs 1,800 each which will be borne directly by corporation. The all-party meeting has also decided to fix service charge based on slabs depending on the kind of service being availed by each household. Primarily the new waste management policy revolves around home composting and corporation wants it to be a success at any rate given the fact that one more failure could spell irreparable damages to corporation's efforts in waste management.
 
 Deputy mayor Rakhi Ravikumar said that the proposal will be actively considered as corporation is going through final stages in preparing database ahead of bringing old buildings under new tax regime. Mayor V K Prasanth said that although corporation is already suffering revenue loss with the introduction of GST, tax relaxation along with waste management is being considered so as to encourage people to process waste at home. Under new tax regime, corporation will also be introducing 10% service charge and in certain zones the tax rate will be higher than the present rate. The tax relaxation will be implemented based on annual inspection report prepared by a health official who will ascertain that home composting is done effectively in a house and is eligible for tax benefit.
 
 The civic body is also introducing a similar model of reverse returns to reduce use of plastic. Merchants who have stocked plastic in large quantities will be given an opportunity to return plastic covers for which corporation would pay Rs 15 per kg.
 
