If you had thought of signing up for swimming sessions at a city hotel to beat the heat, the water scarcity, ironically, may pour cold water on your plans.

 The water crisis has taken a heavy toll on the hospitality sector and the first casualty could be the closure of swimming pools in starcategory hotels. Acute shortage has left several hotels at the mercy of private tankers after  , which has drastically cut supplies to households, stopped selling water for commercial purposes. Procuring water from other sources has become a costly affair, and hotels and restaurants are now exploring new measures to reduce water consumption.
 
 “If a severe water crisis hits the city, closure of swimming pools will be inevitable since a large volume of water is required to run the facilities,“ a senior executive of a leading star hotel in the city said.
 
 Swimming pools are among the most sought after attractions at starcategory hotels.
 
 On an average, said industry sources, an occupant of a star hotel requires 750 to 900 litres of water for drinking and washing needs.This can cross 1,000 litres if the guest uses a swimming pool. The city and its peripheries have anywhere between 12,000 to 14,000 rooms in hotels ranging from three to five star deluxe. Laundries at these hotels also consume large volumes of water. A hotel said it spends 12,000 litres of water daily on laundry alone.
 
 Metrowater's decision to stop selling water to commercial buildings, including malls and hotels, a few days ago has inflated the water bills of these establishments multifold. In some cases, the costs have doubled.  , manager of New Woodlands Hotel (P) Limited, said water was being sourced from private suppliers at Rs 2,400 per 24,000 litres. “But Metrowater supplied water at a fixed nominal tariff of `600 for every 12,000 litres at their filling stations,“ he said.
 
 To cope with the crisis, hotels are asking guests to reduce their water consumption. South India Hotels and Restaurants Association honourary secretary   said guests were being urged to use water judiciously.“Stickers are pasted in hotel rooms on conserving water. This apart, we are utlising the treated water for lawns and gardens,“ he said. Restaurants, whose water consumption is less, have come up with handy solutions. M  , president of  , said a few eateries were fitting taps at sinks with showers such that the flow of water was controlled and the water spread uniformly over the vessel.
 
 “We are also insisting that occupants in lodges decrease the amount of water consumed in view of the prevailing water crisis,“ he said.
 
