THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: According to a statement issued by BJP media cell on Saturday , 29 Keralites stranded in Damam, Saudi Arabia, will soon return home following the intervention of Union minister for external affairs  .

 The minister intervened in the issue after she was informed by BJP state president  , who submitted a memorandum to the minister, the statement said The Malayalis were cheated by their sponsor, who took away their visas and passports instead of handing over the same to their recruiters when they landed in the kingdom two years ago. Rajasekharan was approached by the relatives of the Malayalis around 10 days ago.
 
 Arrangements have been made for the group to return in a week's time, said the statement.
 
 
 
 
 Dammam: A Malayali woman, who was declared a runaway by her sponsor, was given a ticket to return home with the intervention of the Indian embassy.   from Alappuzha landed in Saudi Arabia seven months ago and was employed as a maid for four months. As she did not get her salary, she approached the helpdesk of the embassy and filed a complaint. Her sponsor declared her a runaway. The police took her to a women's shelter and contacted the sponsor, who was not interested in pursuing a case. Community volunteers tried to change her sponsorship, but her relatives wanted her to return home. The sponsor gave her exit visa and Malayali volunteer Wilson provided her the return ticket.
 
 
 
 
 Jeddah: Indian Consul General   met chief of labour department   at the ministry headquarters. This is the first such meeting after the declaration of the 90-day amnesty by the Saudi government. They discussed the formalities to deport illegal expatriates. Officials of India's diplomatic mission also attended the meeting.
 
 
 
 Khamis Mushayat (Saudi Arabia): The body of UP native Dhooth Nath (38), which was kept in the freezer at the general hospital's mortuary, was taken to his hometown of Sikarur, Rajapur. Nath had died 10 months ago and was listed as an unidentified corpse. Malayali community volunteers established his identity after detailed enquiries. Volunteers Haneef Manjeswaram, Naseer Chikmagalur oversaw the legal formalities. The rent for the mortuary freezer (SR 12,000) and other expenses, related to the transportation of the body, was met by Nath's sponsor.
 
 
