Ghaziabad: Barely a few hours after   and Samajwadi Party formally announced a pre-poll tie-up in Lucknow on Sunday, the former released a list of 41 candidates for the first and second phase of the assembly elections in UP. The list contains the names of candidates for four assembly seats of Ghaziabad district apart from that of Dadri in Gautam Budh Nagar district.

 On January 20, the   had announced the names of candidates for all eight assembly seats in GB Nagar and Ghaziabad. On Sunday, Congress office-bearers said that a pact was reached with the SP to withdraw the latter’s candidates from five seats in  .
 
 On Saturday, after SP declared candidates for GB Nagar and Ghaziabad, its candidate from Dadri,   Bhati (52), had recused himself from contesting the polls on health grounds. In Ghaziabad district, the party had announced candidates for Loni, Ghaziabad, Sahibabad and Muradnagar.
 
 “SP will issue letters to the Election Commission as well as to the returning officers of the four assembly seats in Ghaziabad district that it has withdrawn the candidates it had fielded from these four constituencies. SP will also not allot the party’s election symbol to these candidates. The seat-sharing has been worked out after deliberations with the SP brass,” AICC secretary in-charge of UP, Naseeb Singh, told TOI.
 
 From Sahibabad seat, the party has fielded Amarpal Sharma, the sitting MLA, who was ousted from the BSP on January 16.
 
  Sharma, who is known to have a strong vote bank in Trans-Hindon areas, had joined Congress a day after he was thrown out by the BSP on charges of indiscipline and anti-party activities.
 
 From Muradnagar, it has fielded Surender Goel (71), a former Lok Sabha MP known for his proximity to Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi. He has been with the Congress since 1971 and had also been elected to the assembly as an MLA on the party’s ticket in 2002 polls. 
 
 He was elected to the Lok Sabha from Ghaziabad in 2004 but had lost to BJP’s Rajnath Singh in 2009.
 
 In Loni, the party has fielded Sher Nabi Chaman (55) who will be contesting an assembly poll for the third time. Chaman, a vice-president of the district Congress committee, had earlier unsuccessfully run for the assembly elections as an Independent candidate on two occasions.
 
 From Ghaziabad seat, the Congress has fielded KK Sharma (63), a party veteran who has previously held the posts of NSUI president and AICC secretary. Sharma had shot into limelight last year after he was issued a show-cause notice by the Congress for questioning Rahul Gandhi’s decision to field Raj Babbar from the Ghaziabad seat in the 2014 polls. He had called Raj Babbar a ‘nachaniya (dancer)’.
 
 From Dadri, Congress has fielded Sameer Bhati, who was also the party’s candidate in the 2012 polls. Bhati, a party-hopper, was elected to the assembly from Dadri on an SP ticket in the 1993 polls. He contested from Dadri in the 1996 elections again on an SP ticket but had lost. He fought the assembly polls in 2002 and 2007, respectively, as an independent and on a Rashtriya Lok Dal ticket but lost on both occasions. He had switched loyalty to the BSP during the 2009 general elections. But he had come back to the Congress fold in 2012.
 
 
