PUNE: The groundwater level in over 200 talukas in the state have shown groundwater level depletion by more than 1 meter for the month of March stated a report submitted by the   ( ) to the government, issuing a   on use of ground water for drinking and agriculture  .

 The recent report submitted to the state water and sanitation department by the GSDA for the month of March may show a better situation in water levels than last year but the rising mercury levels and heavy use of groundwater water can trigger of a water crisis in the summer season, stated officials from GSDA. Last year, the month of March there were 18,502 villages affected with depletion in water levels as against 5156 villages affected this year according to the report
 
 “This year the depletion of ground water level is less than last March. However, if the ground water is not used with discretion it is bound to create water scarcity,’’stated additional director II Shah after submitting the report to the government.
 
 The report stated that of the 353 talukas in the state, 218 have recorded groundwater level depleting more than one meter while 47 talukas in the state had water depletion of more than 3 meters.
 
 The GSDA issues the report in the month of January, March, May and October. The report is based on the readings taken at 3,920 observation wells across the state. The agency monitors groundwater levels and the readings are taken in the month of March and submitted to the government end of April.
 
 GSDA officials stated that as compared to last March the situation was a lot better this year because of good rains last year. However, it was noticed that at most villages there were several activities pertaining to digging of wells and borewells which were affecting the groundwater levels. However the situation is better than last year as there were 4477 villages affected last year with ground water level depletion more than 3 meters while according to the recent report it is only 325 villages affected this year, stated the officials. 
 
 Citizens who have been raising issues of depletion of ground water levels have been stressing on water conservation, recycling and reuse of grey water. Col SG Dalvi (retd) of Climate Reality Project has been advocating a holistic view towards water conservation. “We have been advocating roof top, surface rainwater harvesting to raise the ground water table which will require less energy to lift water and reduce carbon foot print. The present situation where there is not much stress on recycling is disheartning. Moreover when the city is facing depletion in dam levels there is no water cut which would only further deplete the dam levels,’’states Dalvi.
 
