PUNE: The four-ward panel system has disappointed many citizens who were unable to cast their votes after they failed to trace their names or locate their polling booths on Tuesday. Others fortunate enough could vote only after a struggle to find the booths.

 There were hundreds of complaints about not finding names at the polling booths where people traditionally cast their votes in the past elections. Issues about serial numbers not matching with the  ' list at polling booths, allotment of different polling booths to members from the same families or housing societies, different wards despite the voter not belonging to the ward and spelling errors, mismatch of names were in plenty. 
 
 Many voters moved from one polling booth to another to locate the right one. In fringe areas like Dhayari, which has urban and rural pockets, there was confusion because of the simultaneous conduct of   and   polls. 
 
 At polling booth numbers 60 to 65 in Pokale high school in ward 33 in Dhayari, at least 12 voters complained about their serial numbers not matching with the list in the polling booths. 
 
 “There were many more who reported early in the morning and returned because of this issue,” voter Sanjay Neulkar said. A sizeable number of women searched for their names without any success. “Polling booth officials told us that our names could be listed in other booths,” Ashwini Kamble and Sulabha Kharad, who had visited three to four polling booths, said.
 
 Senior citizen Vernon Fernandes, his wife, Cynthia, and son, Dustin, had a trying time locating their names despite visiting three to four polling booths in ward 26 (Kondhwa-Meethanagar). The family voted late on Tuesday afternoon after finding their names at a polling booth in Konark Puram, at least one km away from their residence. 
 
 “Earlier, we could not get our voters’ slips at the polling booth where we have voted in the past, nor could our names be traced from the voter search app. We checked with representatives of political parties but they too could not help,” Fernandes said. 
 
 In Sahakarnagar, S Wagh, who came to vote at Muktangan English School, said the remaining three members from his family had to vote in another school. Teacher Meenal Gadre’s polling booth was in Market Yard while three of her family members were near Gangadham on Bibvewadi-Kondhwa Road. "We had checked our names on the website so we knew where to go,” she said.
 
 Many people confessed that they had not taken the effort to check the polling booth before Tuesday. "We assumed it will be the same booth where we had voted during the Lok Sabha and assembly elections in 2014,” a voter from Muktangan school said.
 
 After almost half-an-hour’s search, Bavdhan resident Subash Kale (67) found his name at a polling booth nearly 2.5km from his home. "Voting is my right, so I went there to vote," he said.
 
 Vishwanath Kawathekar from Sun City Road in Anandnagar off Sinhagad Road, said, “In the past elections, I had voted at a nearby society’s club house but today I could not trace my booth.” After spending about 45 minutes, Kawathekar voted at Manikbaug.
 
 Vadgaon Budruk resident Varsha Mahale got her polling booth from the internet. “But it was at another place. I had to walk another 500m to cast my vote,” she said.
 
 Vimannagar resident Rashmi Narayan said she had checked a website and found her name and polling booth but polling agents could not find her name. “Eventually, the authorities located my name on the rolls and I cast my vote,” she added.
 
 Shankari S, a domestic help from Wadgaonsheri, said she had applied for a voter card long back but her name was not on the rolls and she could not vote.
 
 The last-minute finalization of the list, a delay in the distribution of slips and shifting of polling booths to a PMC school in Siddharthnagar on Salunke Vihar Road took a toll on the voting percentage. Of the 3,912 voters, only 1,129 exercised their franchise.
 
