PATNA: After bitter exchange of words in and outside the legislature during the last few days, health minister Tej Pratap Yadav and leader of opposition in the council   kept the mood light on Tuesday and reminded each other of their chacha-bhatija (uncle-nephew) relationship.
 
  Replying to a question by BJP MLC Nawal Kishor Yadav regarding the recruitment of Ayush doctors, the health minister said 318 out of 874 posts sanctioned were filled up and the recruitment process was on for the remaining 556 posts. To this, Sushil Modi said four out of five Ayurveda colleges in Bihar had been closed because of lack of teachers and if the recruitment process was on, why was it being delayed? When labour resources minister   tried to come to Tej’s rescue, the health minister asked him not to intervene as “it is between ‘chacha’ and ‘bhatija’ and we would resolve it”. He further said a request letter was being sent to the   for the recruitment. SuMo advised Tej Pratap to use his power and get the colleges started within a year.
  
  The ‘chacha,bhatija’ also mocked at each other on another question related to infamous uterus scam asked up by Rajneesh Kumar and Ramchandra Bharti of the BJP. Tej Pratap said FIR against 46 doctors and hospitals had been lodged in the scam and the state health department had asked to the   to cancel the registration of 33 doctors.
  
  SuMo said though   (BHRC) had asked the state government to pay Rs2.50 lakh compensation to each of the victim in 20-40 age group and Rs1.50 lakh to those above 40 years, the sanctioned amount was just Rs50,000 per individual. The decision was taken in April last year, but the victims were not paid any money.
  
  SuMo further said BHRC had asked the state health department to recover the money from the accused doctors. “Can the minister tell me from how many doctors the money had been recovered and how many hospitals found involved in the scam were shut down?” he asked. The minister said he would get it checked. Reacting to Tej’s reply, SuMo said, “After listening to the answers given by bhatija, I do not understand what to do. Chhor diya jaye, ya mar diya jaye.”
  
  The humourous mood prevailed even after that. Tej seemed to follow his father Lalu Prasad’s style when Rajneesh Kumar of BJP told him there were 292 sub-health centres in Begusarai, out of which 200 did not have their own building. He asked the minister when he would get the construction work done? “I would get it constructed soon and then both the brothers (pointing towards Rajneesh) would go together and inaugurate those buildings,” Tej said.
