Patiala: Almost a year after the Rs 50-lakh billing scam rocked Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), an FIR has been finally registered against five persons including a sub-divisional officer of the corporation.

 The scam had come to light in August last year, following which the corporation had suspended eight employees in September. The corporation had even written to the police to register an FIR against the employees for their involvement in the scam.
 
 But it was only on Tuesday that police registered a case under Sections 135 and 138 of the Electricity Act and 409, 468, 471, 477, 167, 201,120b of the IPC and Sections 65 of the IT Act.
 
 The cops maintained that the matter had been investigated before registration of the case. Those booked were SDO Naveen Gupta, LDM Renu Nagra, engineer Vikas Tangri and linemen Pardeep Kumar and Davinder Kumar.
 
 It was alleged that the said employees used to alter the meter readings to benefit selected consumers. The scam had been reported from Patiala’s north subdivision following which the chief engineer (north) conducted a preliminary investigation which confirmed the involvement of the PSPCL employees.
 
 The corporation had then suspended eight employees included the five who have been booked in the case. Besides, the matter had also been forwarded to the police for registration of a criminal case.
 
 After the scam surfaced, the corporation has also directed the chief auditor to trace all cases of meter tampering across Punjab and file a report.
 
 A report filed by the chief engineer had confirmed that meters of some of the consumers were tampered with causing losses of Rs 50 lakh in the north subdivision alone. 
 
 Multi-lakh scam
 
 The selected consumers were asked not to deposit their bimonthly bills prepared on the basis of actual readings by on-the-spot billing machines for a year. While their connections were not disconnected, employees of the corporation reversed the meter reading in the server and the power bills of these consumers, which were in lakhs, were reduced to a few thousand.
 
 
