THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Jatayupara nature park, the state’s first   at   in Kollam that was rechristened as Jatayu Earth’s Center, will be opened to visitors in April this year with minimum features, including a ropeway with cable cars. The other attractions of the park that includes a virtual reality museum, multidimensional theatre and adventure training centre are expected to be ready by Onam.

 The monumental project, with a huge sculpture of the mythical bird in Ramayana as the main attraction, was jointly launched 10 years ago by the tourism department, filmmaker and sculptor Rajiv Anchal and some private equity holders.
 
 “We have fixed the opening for Vishu in April. The public will have access to the cable car and exterior view of the Jatayu sculpture,” said Anchal. The work on the other features that would occupy the 15,000 square feet of space inside the sculpture are fast progressing and the full-fledged version of the park will be ready by Onam, he added.
 
 The first ultramodern cable cars in south India, imported from Switzerland, will take visitors across an elevated distance of 500m –– from the base station to the top –– in five minutes. There will be 16 cable cars, each with a seating capacity of eight. Their glass body will ensure an enchanting view of the surrounding areas for the visitors.
 
 Construction of access roads (one-way roads in each direction) ensuring safety and drainage facilities also need to be completed before the opening of the park, for which the government has already given administrative sanction for an amount of Rs 6.5 crore. “The entry will be from the MC Road, one kilometre before   while coming from south, while the visitors will have to make an exit through another road that leads to the very junction,” said a tourism official.
 
 Meanwhile the developers have renamed the nature park as Jatayu Earth’s Center, citing it as a ‘glorious example of sustainable and eco-friendly tourism in India, in a place replete with hills, valleys, caves and vegetation’. “Our website, compatible for both mobile phones and desktop, will be launched soon. Visitors can do the bookings through it,” Rajiv said.
 
 When Guruchandrika Builders and Property Private Ltd leased the government owned land for 30 years to build and operate the park, a major challenge was the uninterrupted availability of water. But they constructed a check dam with a capacity of twenty lakhs litres between two rock valleys for conserving water. Also, the electricity required for the project is being harnessed from solar power.
 
 The 200ft long, 150ft wide and 70ft tall sculpture is the largest functional bird sculpture in the world with an entry into the Guinness Book of World Records.
 
 
