KOLKATA: The East Kolkata Wetlands Bill, which is likely to be placed in the assembly this week, makes the state environment minister the chairperson of the  . The chief secretary, who is the current chairman of the regulatory agency, will now be an ordinary member of the panel.

 Bengal's environment minister now happens to be  , who also happens to be the state housing minister, the state fire services minister as well as the city's mayor. His becoming the chairperson of an authority, which will decide the fate of an extremely fragile ecosystem, has triggered alarm among Kolkata's environmentalists, who say the amendment will vest too much of power in one person.
 
 What has prompted the outcry are Chatterjee's recent proposals, including having Eco Park-like development on the wetlands, and his questioning the curbs that the Ramsar site imposes on the city's eastward growth and any construction on the wetlands. The Bengal administration, however, says too much is being read in this. “The bill mentions a designation (that of the environment minister), not an individual (Sovan Chatterjee). Chatterjee may not even have the other portfolios tomorrow and will not remain the environment minister forever,“ a senior state official said.
 
 “The Bengal government is merely following the proposed amendment in the Centre's Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rules, where either the chief minister or environment minister becomes the chairperson of agencies regulating wetlands,“ he added. Sovan Chatterjee admitted he was set to take charge of EKWMA and said there were several issues that needed to early resolution. “I am yet to assume charge. I will, of course, consult with the officials concerned to resolve several issues concerning EKW,“ he said.
 
 The identification of a new municipal solid waste dump site tops his agenda as it is linked to crucial funds from the  , which have been stopped till the matter is resolved. Ecologists and environmentalists, however, are worried about his other developmental plans, including an   in East Kolkata Wetlands.
 
 Environmentalist A K Ghosh hoped the environment minister's elevation to the crucial post would help him understand and appreciate the importance of EKW and realise that decisions taken would impact the city for generations to come. “Personally, I don't think all the power should be vested in one person. There is a fear of checks and balances in the system getting overlooked,“ said Ghosh.
 
 Bonani Kakkar of green action group Public, which had fought for the wetland's preservation in court and won a historic judgement in 1992 (which prohibited construction or change of land use pattern), said she wouldn't hesitate to move court again if EKW was threatened. “ As environment minister and soon-to-be EKWMA chairman, the mayor should pledge to preserve the wetlands. I hope the quarterly meetings resume soon because there has been none since March 2016,“ said Kakkar, who is a member of EKWMA.
 
