MANGALURU: Although the   called by right-wing outfits in   on Saturday, in opposition to the visit of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, might have disrupted private public transport services in the city, most first year pre-university students managed to appear for their respective final exams.

 Of the 17,315 students from 124 PU colleges in the district, a mere 46 were registered absent. “Most of the absentees were from Mangaluru city,” said KR Thimmaiah, deputy director of pre-university department. Officials said that they would decide on holding a re-examination for the absentees after holding a meeting with C Shikha, director of the department of PU education, on Monday.
 
 While most students were dropped to their respective centres by their parents, a few also took JnNURM buses. Students who came in late, were allowed to appear for the examination by the college authorities.
 
 Jennifer Serrao, a science student at St Agnes PU College, reached her examination centre only at 10.05am. A resident of Niddodi, 40km from the city, Jennifer was dropped to the centre by her father Joachim Serrao. “The exam is scheduled to start at 9.30am. My daughter takes the private bus to college every day. But no buses were plying in our area today, and she was delayed as a result,” said Joachim, adding that he would wait for the examination to finish and take her back home.
 
 “Our centre registered no absentees,” said Sister M Shamitha, principal of St Agnes PU College. Sharada PU College, in the heart of Mangaluru, too registered 100% attendance for the examination.
 
 Kerala students stayed with their relatives in the city on Friday to appear for the examination. “Owing to the non-availability of buses from Kerala, a few of our friends stayed at their relatives’ houses,” said Flan Sana D’Souza, a first PU student at St Aloysius PU College.
 
 Although a few colleges and schools in the city were open on Saturday, attendance remained lean. However, citing lack of public transport services and safety concerns, some schools declared a holiday.
 
 
