A year ago, Karnataka was reported to have the highest number of tigers — 406. But in the course of the year, we lost 17 of them, and 2017 witnessed another seven deaths, including that of a cub. Unfortunately, not all of them died due to natural causes, with wildlife experts claiming that humans are a major reason. Most of the deaths have been reported from   and Nagarahole.
 
  Reacting to the recent death of a tiger due to an overdose of tranquilizers while being shifted from the   to the  , wildlife activist  , says, “Forest officials have to follow guidelines set by the   about the quantity of tranquilizer that can be administered to an animal. On the one hand, the population of big cats in the state has been on the rise, but on the other, this is forcing these animals to venture out of core forest areas in search of food. Villagers need to be educated about what to do if they spot a tiger instead of putting up traps and snares that can grievously injure the animals. Forest officials need to have rapid rescue vehicles ready at all times to prevent man-animal conflicts.”
  
  
 
  
  January 3: A female tiger was found dead at the  . Since teeth and claws were intact, poaching was ruled out and it was suspected to have died owing to injuries sustained during a territorial fight.
  
  January 13: An injured tiger that was caught at the Bandipur Reserve died and shifted to the Bannerghatta Biological Park died due to an alleged overdose of
  tranquilizer.
  
  January 17: A female tiger was found dead at the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve after being shot with tranquilizer darts four times.This came just days after another tiger died of an overdose.
  
  January 20: A tiger caught in a snare near   of Kodagu, later died at the Chamundi Animal Conservation, Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre in   owing to
  complications from its injury.
  
  January 22: A tiger was found dead in Kodagu forest areas, owing to injuries
  sustained in territorial fights.
  
  January 29: Snares laid to trap wild boars claimed a five-year-old tiger’s life in Kodagu region.
  
  February 3: A tiger cub was found dead in Nagarahole Tiger Reserve on last Friday. The reason of the death is yet to be ascertained.
  
  
  
 
  
  According to the census report released by the   for the
  year 2015,there are 406 tigers in Karnataka, out of which 221 are in Bandipur and Nagarahole Tiger Reserves
