MUMBAI: The Shiv Sena has begun talks with the   in an attempt to hammer out a seat adjustment formula for the upcoming BMC polls.

 Sena president   held talks with senior MNS functionary Bala Nandgaonkar at Matoshree on Sunday. This is the Sena's first attempt to befriend new allies after it severed its two decade poll partnership with the BJP last week.
 
 The Sena-MNS are likely to work out a formula for, what is known in political lexicon as seat `adjustment' instead of a full-fledged poll pact. According to this, the MNS may not contest all the 227 BMC seats in the civic election. Instead, it may lend a helping hand to the Sena in the remainder of the civic wards, sources said.
 
 Matoshree's invite to the MNS for preliminary negotiations comes at a time when a large section of the   is keen on the Thackeray cousins coming together for the larger cause of Marathi `manoos' and Mumbai. Sena veteran Manohar Joshi too has been batting for a Raj-Uddhav patchup. “It's not enough that workers of the two parties want their leaders to join hands.Both Uddhav and Raj too should make up their mind on the issue,“ Joshi said.
 
 However, Uddhav had been a tad hesitant on teaming up with the MNS, it is learnt.He did not respond to Raj's numerous telephone calls over the last few days, said a key MNS functionary. “Rajsaheb tried to get in touch with Uddhavji in order to discuss a seat adjustment formula with the Sena for the upcoming civic elections in Mumbai. However, there was no response from Uddhavji,“ said the MNS functionary .
 
 Nevertheless, informal talks were on between the two parties, sources said.Even when Matoshree was mulling over the BJP's demand of 114 of the total 227 seats in the BMC last week, efforts were on to bring the estranged Thackeray cousins together. Functionaries of the two parties met recently to work out a formula for seat adjustments, triggering speculation of a reconciliation in the Thackeray clan ahead of the civic elections.
 
 However, several Sena veterans, who enjoy Uddhav's trust, have taken a dim view of the Uddhav-Raj approachement. They say that if allowed to handle the Sena-MNS joint poll campaign, Raj may try to gain control of the Sena's organizational apparatus.
 
 
