KOLKATA: App cabs may have revolutionized travel in the city, but there are a few issues that the cops want to monitor to control crimes committed by drivers. One of the biggest challenges is tracing those who act as relievers for the registered and verified drivers. Lalbazar is now planning spot verifications. 

 “We will randomly book cabs. Once they arrive, we will check if the photograph sent by the aggregator in the mobile matches with the one at the wheels. A separate log of all erring drivers will be kept and the aggregators will be warned. The whole idea is to carry out spot verifications where we are stressing on four important things — whether the man at the wheels is actually registered with the cab operators, their temporary and permanent addresses, if they have necessary permissions from transport department and whether his verification documents are genuine,” said an IPS officer.
 
 In a recent meeting with businesswomen organized by FICCI Flo, DC (DD)   said they are worried how certain drivers are being allowed to drive without being verified by the aggregator. “It is not possible for one driver to drive throughout the day. He looks for a few hours of back-up to maintain profit. It is these stop-gap drivers about whom we are worried,” said Chakraborty.
 
 Sources indicated that the traffic police might approach the transport department to initiate action under Section 188 of the IPC against company executives for not obeying government directions. This way, the liability of the company will also be fixed. “In order to effectively enforce the checking, we plan to ask all our traffic inspectors to download the app. The offending vehicle will be impounded and a letter will be written to the transport department to cancel the vehicle’s permit. But all this will be done only if the transport department issues the notification,” an official said.
 
 The drivers, however, said they are being unfairly targeted. “We are the safest mode of transport in Kolkata today except maybe the government buses. You can track us down. A few aberrations are being blown out of proportion. What about the high-handedness of yellow-and-white and blue taxi drivers?” asked  , an app-cab driver.
 
 Cops agreed the number of complaints against   and   was a trickle compared to what they used to receive against regular cabbies. “However, the cases against taxi drivers have lowered by over 80% in the past year,” an officer added.
 
 
