"KOCHI: Kochi has already been marked as a city with a rise in number of substance abuse cases in the country. But what is of growing concern to the community is that youngsters between the age of 18 and 25 are falling victims to its abuse, both as users and carriers.

  City-based psychiatrists and psychologists say that there is a steady increase in the number of youngsters using cannabis (ganja) and in most cases, parents never know or are not ready to accept that their children are drug users.
 
 On an average 10 to 15 youngsters are reaching clinics of most psychiatrists in the city weekly .
 
 Recently, a city college authorities were forced to call the excise department following smell of cannabis smoke from the men's toilet.
 
 They had identified a few youths who they had suspected of smoking ganja on campus. However, when the students and parents were called for questioning, they denied.
 
 “Parents were vehement that their sons were smoking cigarettes and not ganja. Finally, blood tests were done to reveal the presence of drug.Only then did the parents accept it, “ said Shashikumar, excise CI,   zone.
 
 He said that often they were catching only the lower end of the chain, the carriers, who were forced to peddle because of the addiction.
 
 A total of 756 cases of drug seizure have been registered under the NDPS Act from January to June 2017 and officials say that this is only the tip of an iceberg.
 
 Psychiatrists say parents need to watch out for sudden behavioural changes, drop in scholastic performances, asking for money, temper tantrums, changes in sleep cycle, lack of appetite, fearful behaviour and hallucinations.
 
 “When parents bring children to our hospital, we ask them to do a urine test, which will reveal use of cannabis or weed, “ said Dr   U, a psychiatrist at KIMS Hospital.
 
 Dr Vivek said youngsters are being lured saying that cannabis is a plant, a natural drug and not a synthetic drug.
 
 “They are told that it will not become an addiction and there won't be any changes or reactions in their body. What they don't understand is that it will affect brain functioning, “ he said.
 
 Excise officials say that this is the first among the gateway drugs. “We are also seeing a hike in LSD usage. But we have not been able to catch any major kingpins, “ said  , superintendent of narcotics control bureau ( ).
 
 Whiteners, fevicol and nitrazepam tablets are already in the list. 
 
 “Even girls are becoming users. It starts with peer pressure, boy friends etc. Then it goes out of control. We have been conducting awareness classes in institutions. But parents need to become vigilant, “ he said “You need to keep track of your child, hisher friends, acquaintances, and places they are going, say "officials.
 
 “Users get exposed at colleges and other public places, “ said Venugopal.
 
 Excise officials say that peddlers are using children of highly-placed persons in the society, including government officials and the police.
 
 “They know that they can use this influence to get out of jail if they get caught, “ said Shashikumar.
 
