NEW DELHI: Sustained efforts of residents have finally pushed authorities to address the problem of overflowing sewage in  . Soon after TOI highlighted the issue last month,   ( ) officials inspected the affected spots multiple times and served show-cause notices to bars and restaurants for allegedly flouting norms.

 Said environmentalist Rajiv Suri, who resides at D Block: “There are over 50 restaurants here and many don’t use their effluent treatment plants (ETPs). Instead, they dispose of their sludge and muck in domestic sewage lines.”
 
 According to the action taken report of DPCC, over 25 establishments were inspected and show-cause notices were issued to over a dozen for non-functional ETPs under Section 33(A) of Air Act or/and Section 31 (A) of Water Act. The restaurants will have to file a compliance report within 15 days.
 
 The clauses are very stringent and in case on non-compliance, DPCC can withdraw the “consent to operate”, forcing the establishments to shut down. The pollution watchdog may also impose fine on them. “Even if one or two restaurants are shut down, it will send out a strong message to others,” Suri added.
 
 The DPCC report filed by senior environment engineer D K Singh mentions that notices have been issued to big establishments such as Moti Mahal Delux, Nizam S Kathi Kabab, Moets, Desi Vibes, NYC Pie, U Road Romeo, Sagar Ratna Restaurant, Kathputli, Amici Café and Hotel Freesia. James, the manager at Moti Mahal, said “Usually our (effluent treatment) plant functions very well. Maybe, it stopped working when the officials came here for an inspection.”. 
 
 Vipul Gupta, the owner of Kathputli claims his ETP is working fine, but the operator was on leave on that particular day. “The market association has taken up the sewage problem and some funds have been earmarked for the new sewer lines.” 
 
 Some restaurants maintain that their back-lanes were full of sewage and they should not be blamed alone for this mess. “We are in full compliance and our ETP plant is running. A DPCC inspector will come tomorrow and assess the situation,” Sagar Ratna’s manager A K Gupta. 
 
 But according to the DPCC report, Sagar Ratna was asked to shut down but the power discom and DJB did not disconnect its water and electricity supply. 
 
 The problem due to the choked drains lines though is not restricted to the market area alone. Since the market’s sewage line is connected to the old domestic sewage lines, residential areas in B Block and parts of C and A Blocks of Defence Colony too have been affected. Many residents complain of clogged toilets, and contamination of drinking water.
 
 Abhisek Dutt, area councillor from Andrews Ganj, said, “We are thankful to DPCC for taking the much-awaited initiative. We expect DJB to respond to the problem so that the people get some relief.”
 
 
