NAGPUR: A major controversy erupted over the sudden cancellation of an event organized by Nagpur University’s   Chair where   (M) general secretary   was the chief guest. It was scheduled for Saturday and Sunday at the convocation hall, but after allegedly receiving some calls from the right wing organizations, VC SP Kane cancelled it citing “law and order” situation, NU sources claimed.

 Retired IRS officer SN Busi, noted author and thinker, was another guest of the national seminar on ‘Erosion of Indian democracy: Challenges and solution’.
 
 A top police official told TOI that there was “no intimation to them about the programme” and there was “no question of any law and order situation arising”. 
 
 The VC refused to specify the reason of cancellation stating that “it was an administrative decision, not meant to be revealed to the media”. However, he told a delegation led by former state minister Nitin Raut that he feared a law and order situation, particularly in the aftermath of recent developments in   and Delhi universities.
 
 Kane said the event was cancelled “indefinitely”, due to “unavoidable circumstances”. “There is a Senate meet organized on the same day. In the past as well, we have cancelled many events,” he told TOI. 
 
 Yechury told TOI that even he had heard that there was pressure on the VC not to invite him for the event. “I am told that the venue would be shifted to probably Deekshabhoomi and I would be intimated by Friday morning. The organizers told me invitation cards had been distributed and all preparations in place. I don’t have any problem to come for the programme,” he said.
 
 Yechury has visited the city earlier too and there never has been any controversy. “He is also known to be a good orator and represents his party in the Parliament. Therefore, any thought of trouble during his speech is unthinkable,” Raut told TOI, after meeting the VC who assured them that the programme would be rescheduled soon.
 
 Sources said Ambedkar chair head Pradeep Aglave failed to apprise NU administration about the event. When the VC came to know about it, he cancelled it immediately. 
 
 However, Aglave said that he had taken permission from the registrar and also informed the VC and pro-VC Pramod Yeole. “The VC received many calls from the some organizations warning him of trouble, which led to its cancellation. Even we were surprised by his decision,” he said, adding, “everyone knows who they are.” 
 
 Along with Raut, littérateur Yashwant Manohar, INTUC leader Trisharan Sahare and others met Kane. Later, they issued a statement warning of protest “if new dates are not finalized with same set of guests”. Flaying the NU administration, the delegation blamed them for “suppressing freedom of speech” and “bringing disrepute to the entire institution”.
 
 “The NU has suffered a loss of about Rs1 lakh towards cancellation of flight tickets, lodging and boarding arrangements of the invitees and other miscellaneous expenditure like printing of invitation cards,” said Aglave.
 
