NEW DELHI: The   said on Friday that it registered a case on July 5 against former railway minister   and others for an 
  through which he acquired three acres of land in Patna worth Rs 32 crores for "a mere Rs 54 lakhs."

 The CBI also said it is conducting simultaneous raids - still going on as of mid morning Friday - in 12 locations associated with Lalu and the other accused, including in Patna, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar and Gurugram. The raids began at 7: 30 am Friday.
 
  
  allegedly received the three acres of land - through a multi-layered process - in exchange for granting a private company "rigged" tenders to maintain two Railways hotels when he was railway minister, said Rakesh Asthana, additional director, CBI. The tenders were granted through the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) between 2004 and 2009 when Lalu was Union railway minister.
 
 Lalu and the others accused have been charged under the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988, for an alleged "conspiracy hatched between 2004 and 2014", said Asthana.
 
 Also named in the CBI case are Lalu's wife  , his son Tejashwi, PK Goyal, a former managing director of Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), Sarla Gupta, the wife of one of Lalu's close aides Prem Chand Gupta, who is a   Rajya Sabha MP and Vijay and Vinay Kochhar, directors of Sujata Hotels Private Limited, the company Lalu allegedly granted illegal favours to.
 
 "The allegation is that between 2004 and 2014, a conspiracy was hatched by which two hotels of the railways - located in Puri and Ranchi - were first transferred to IRCTC and for operations, management and upkeep given on a lease to the private Sujata Hotels Private Limited of Patna," CBI's Asthana explained.
 
 It was the tender process that was purposely dodgy to favour a particular company, the CBI alleged. And in exchange for receiving the tender, a company owned by Lalu's close aides got a payoff in the form of three acres of land, said the CBI's Asthana.
 
  "The allegation is that during this process, the tender process was rigged and manipulated and the conditions were tweaked, to help the private party. In return, three acres of land in western Patna was given to M/s Delight Marketing Private Limited, (a company) which is known to Lalu, at a really low cost," Asthana said.
 
 Sarla Gupta, one of the accused, is a director at Delight Marketing. Her husband is a close aide of Lalu's. 
 
 The CBI official then detailed the alleged manner in which this land eventually made its way to Lalu and his family.
 
  "Subsequently between 2010 and 2014, this land was transferred to Lara Projects, owned by Lalu's family. This transfer was also at a very low price. The land was valued at Rs 32 crore as per circle rates at that time. It was transferred for a mere Rs 54 lakhs to Lara Projects," said Asthana. 
 
 
 
 
