MUMBAI:   Aegis Network, one of the leading fully integrated advertising agencies, and Times Centre for Learning ( ), under its brand  , have formed an exclusive collaboration offering post-graduate diploma in digital marketing in Bengaluru, Mumbai and Delhi. The three-month, full-time programme focuses on the strategic and practical aspects of digital marketing. It is scheduled to begin from January 31, 2017 and will be available for graduates, especially from marketing, retailing and the advertising sectors.

 With domain expertise, Dentsu Aegis Network has assisted TimesPro to curate a robust educational programme to provide thorough and professional training to entry-level professionals in digital marketing. The course offers a total of 450 hours of instructor-led training, immersions and e-learning. India’s digital marketing requirement is growing year on year due to the shift in the mindset of consumers.
 
 The teaching faculty includes some of the prominent names from the industry, including from the digital agencies of  , who will provide insights on the best practises and latest trends and innovations in the digital marketing segment. Each course aspect will be addressed separately by the relevant industry expert. One of the key features of the course — ‘immersion programme’ — enables students to achieve extensive mastery in a relevant topic or aspect of digital marketing. The programme will allow students to practically experience how digital marketing campaigns are actually executed. 
 
 Speaking about the association, Ashish Bhasin, chairman and CEO (South Asia), Dentsu Aegis Network, said, “Digital marketing is the fastest growing part of the advertising and marketing industry. Being domain experts through our digital companies like Isobar, iProspect, WatConsult, Dentsu Webchutney and Fractal, we have collaborated with TimesPro to curate a robust curriculum relevant to current trends in the industry.”
 
 Anish Srikrishna, president, TCLL, said, “We are glad to be associated with Dentsu Aegis Network, who have conceptualised their years of domain expertise in the form of a course for the next-generation professionals. Through this partnership, we will be able to provide a platform for aspiring students to make a successful career in one of the most lucrative career segments. We shall facilitate the course across three major cities in India.”
 
 On completion of the course, students will become all-round professional experts in the digital marketing field. They will acquire effective knowledge of digital consumer behaviour and proficiency in digital marketing tools and analytics. After successful completion of the course, top candidates will find placement opportunities in the various companies of Dentsu Aegis Network and TCLL, among other top e-commerce and digital companies in the country. To know more, visit www.timespro.com/pgddm or call 1800-102-2323.
 
 
