Panaji: National green tribunal ( ) has issued a fresh notice to the state, Goa coastal zone management authority (GCZMA) and Anil Hoble in connection with the issue of demolition of his bar-cum-restaurant and other structures in CRZ area at Merces.

 Kashinath Shetye and others have filed an appeal dated April 17, 2017, alleging that GCZMA has erroneously passed an order dated April 7, 2017, dropping the proceedings against Hoble’s illegal constructions in CRZ. Shetye had filed two complaints before GCZMA. One pertained to structures in CRZ III in land under survey No 65/1-A and in survey no 83/2-A of Merces and another regarding structures in CRZ II in PT sheet no 10 of Chalta No 1 City Survey of Panaji. GCZMA had issued the show cause notice dated May 25, 2012 following Shetye’s complaint alleging reclamation of government land and creek, construction of a huge structure for bar-cum-restaurant, wine and oil lubricant shops in CRZ II at the premises near ice plant at Ribandar.
 
 These had been built on the basis of no objection certificate (NOC) issued by GCZMA in violation of an order of high court of Bombay at Goa. Shetye had also approached NGT regarding the illegal structures. The tribunal in its order of May 2015 had directed that all commercial structures, including a restaurant and bar illegally built by Anil Hoble in a no development zone (NDZ) of CRZ III by reclaiming salt pans in Merces be demolished within six weeks. Hoble had also been asked to pay Rs 20 lakh as costs of environmental degradation in land survey No 65/1 or in survey No 83/2-A of Merces. The proceedings which the GCZMA dropped on April 7, 2017 pertained to structures in CRZ . 
 
 Shetye alleged that even the Supreme Court in its order dated October 7, 2016 had ruled that the no objection certificate (NOC) granted by GCZMA for the construction of bar, restaurant and shops is a nullity, as it is not consistent with the directions of the high court of Bombay at Goa. 
 
 Further, Shetye and others alleged that GCZMA has dropped the proceedings due to political pressure even overruling apex court order that the NOC is ineffective. 
 
  Hoble is the vice-president of BJP’s Goa state unit.
 
 
