HYDERABAD: Nine years after he displayed exemplary  , a Major of  , hailing from Malkajgiri area of city , has not received   promised to him by the state government.

 Chief minister   had announced Rs 30 lakh cash award for recipients of Sena Medal, but Col M Ravi Kumar has been sanctioned a mere Rs 23,250. When he shot terrorists in 2007, Ravi Kumar held the rank of Major and is now a Colonel. Several reasons can be attributed for the soldier not being sanctioned Rs 30 lakh. First, he's a victim of red-tape. A government order (GO) is yet to be issued on the hiked money for Sena awards, though the CM himself made the announcement on January 17. Also, there's no clarity on the cut-off year from which medal recipients would get enhanced amounts. This would easily have been taken care of in the GO.
 
 The District Sainik Welfare Officer, Ranga Reddy district, Sreenesh Kumar, said Ravi Kumar had applied for cash award in 2015 with the office. The recommendation was sent to the government on April 29, 2015.
 
 “After verification, we forwarded it to the government,“ said Sreenesh Kumar. A letter from the Ranga Reddy district collector was sent to the government on December 12, 2016. The GO sanctioning cash award was issued on February 9, 2017. In a head-on combat two terrorists, Major Ravi Kumar displayed bravery and shot one of them.The other terrorist took protection in a cattle shed and began firing indiscriminately . Ravi Kumar, though being injured in his left arm did not give up.
 
 The citation given to Ravi Kumar indicates he kept awake throughout the night determined not to allow the holed-up terrorist escape. It was only at 11.30 am, the next day that a determined Ravi Kumar could take a shot at the terrorist and kill him. His bravery was described as `exemplary and inspirational' in the citation.
 
 Major Ravi Kumar of the 6th battalion of Assam Rifles was also given the honour to lead the army contingent of the three forces and Delhi police at 61st Independence day celebrations in Delhi. Ravi Kumar applied for state government's cash award in 2015.
 
