Congress slammed the 
  for “lacking a vision” for creating jobs and for not announcing a loan waiver for farmers. “We were expecting fireworks, instead it was a 
  ... it was a sher-o-shayari budget. "The main issue facing India today is creation of jobs. How are you going to solve that problem? On that front, there was no vision, no idea, and for farmers, there is absolutely nothing,” Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi said. 

 Rahul mocked the government by asking, “Modi had promised the bullet train. Where is the bullet train now? Railways’ fundamental problem is safety.” 
 
 Deputy leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, Anand Sharma, accused the government of ignoring the concerns of farmers by not waiving off their loans. “The government should make changes in the Budget to include it,” he said. Sharma said allocations for welfare of vulnerable groups and for social schemes like Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan and midday meal had only witnessed meagre hikes. He slammed the finance minister’s claim of a record hike of Rs 9,500 crore in MGNREGA funds, saying the actual increase was only Rs 500 crore when compared with the “revised estimates” last year. 
 
 Sharma said the government was forced to make allocations for the rural sector because of the reverse migration of labour to the countryside. He charged Prime Minister Narendra Modi with violating the sanctity of the Budget by announcing in advance its key provisions which the finance minister only “parroted” on Wednesday. 
 
 According to Sharma, the economy was facing a downturn with a fall in demand and consumption, and credit offtake for industry touching a 20-year low. He said worse was that job losses were in millions. “We expected the finance minister to give the true picture of the economy,” he said. 
 
 Pointing to what he called was the incongruity of BJP celebrating US President Donald Trump and the latter threatening Indian jobs through his visa reforms, Sharma said, “The PM should take an assurance from the US on safeguarding the jobs in IT sector and not show a haste in visiting the US.”
 
