Her debut in the 2014 film   was opposite one of the biggest stars in the Kannada film industry,  . And over three years,   has chosen to do only three films — taking it slow and steady on purpose so that she can churn out only quality work. And this is what she got to do in the Ganesh-starrer   that is slated to release next week. Despite battling a bad cough, the excitement about her role in the film was evident in Ranya’s voice. She tells us more…

 
 
 I play a journalist, who falls in love with Ganesh’s character. She’s a regular, sweet girl, who brings the screen alive. She goes through the whole process of a love cycle, which is what excited me about the character.
 
 
 
 I am not like my character at all in real life; in fact I have never related to any of the characters that I have essayed.
 
 
 
 Yes. It gets hard to stay in the zone when your character is not like you. I have to keep reminding myself that I am not Ranya, but a certain character. I need my director to constantly keep telling me about the scene, how I am supposed to prepare for it, what the character of the girl is, etc. — the director and writer imagine the character a certain way and as an actor, you have to meet that.
 
 
 
 I had just finished Maanikya and had signed my Tamil debut when I heard about the Pataas remake. I had seen the original in parts, so I had an idea about the story. I knew that Ganesh would be starring in it, so this film would be different from what I have done so far. Ganesh’s movies are known to be family commercial comedies, which I was drawn to.
 
 
 
 I am very happy with the work I have done, so far. This career did not just happen to me — this is what I have always wanted. I was launched three years ago with Maanikya and have done three films to date. I haven’t rushed; I have taken it slow, but in a steady manner. I see myself as being a good actor, so I am in no hurry to do a certain number of films. There is never an end to learning, which is why I have been working on my craft and doing homework behind the camera as well. I think my career is in very good form. It’s been great from the start.
 
