They''ve shared some of the best camaraderie there is to see (remember how they fist-bumped in 2008 when he secured nomination?). They also inspired the world with their thoughts and perhaps enjoyed the greatest presence on an international stage that a First Family could hope for.   Barack Obama has been called everything from ‘bridge to the 21st century’ to ‘rockstar’. He swung world opinion in favour of America with his diplomacy and even had a mountain and a fish named after him by scientists. His wife Michelle, a Harvard-educated lawyer, worked towards empowering women and ending childhood obesity, among other things. Recently, Obama — whose presidency is set to come to an end — bid   to the world stage with a moving speech as leaders braced with uncertainty about things to come. “I am going to miss having Barack around,” said Canada’s PM  , echoing the sentiment everywhere. In the eight year-long tryst, here’s looking into Barack and Michelle Obama’s memorable journey…

 
 Their love story started way back in 1989 at a Chicago law firm where she was his adviser. He wanted to go out with her and after a lot of persistence she agreed. The first date happened and it gave way to a life together in October 1992. 
 
 
 The Obamas haven’t shied away from displaying affection in front of the lens. They’ve been spotted kissing and hugging at campaign rallies, after a formal speech, at state fairs, awards galas and on holidays. He even mentions her in almost every speech that he gives. The cameras loved the kiss he shared with her during the presidential inauguration in 2013 when he was re-elected for a second term. They have always had ‘their’ dance at official dos, locked lips at a basketball game after being caught on Kiss Cam, and also kissed while welcoming members of the US Olympic and Paralympic teams to the   in 2012. 
 
 
  
  
 Obama once said, “I asked Michelle the other day, I said, ‘What’s your favorite food’ — because we were sitting around with the girls. She said, ‘Ah, Mexican food. You do not want to be between Michelle and a tamale,” he joked.
 
 
  
  
 One of Michelle’s many public campaigns — Let’s Move — was targeted at battling childhood obesity. Over the course of time she started her own garden at the White House, created smart social media campaigns, and worked with schools and researchers to change how people eat.
 
 
  
  
 Obama shares a great rapport with world leaders, from hosting Spain’s royal couple at the White House, visiting Windsor where he met   and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh for lunch this April. And who can forget the cute photo of him saying hello to Prince George who was dressed in a bathrobe?
 
 
  
  
 Obama created a social media Tweetstorm when sat down to a small, six-dollar meal in the heart of Hanoi, Vietnam, with well-known chef  . It took place just after he lifted the arms embargo on Vietnam.
 
 
 As per reports, 54-year-old Obama, loves to work out in the gym. He is a huge fan of golf and basketball. Special aide Reggie Love once said of his game, “He’s not the most explosive guy, not the fastest guy, but very crafty. I think what he lacks in physical capabilities, he makes up with his intellect.” Obama once even broke into impromptu pushups during the annual White House Easter Egg Roll at the White House in Washington.
 
 
  
  
 On January 10, Obama delivered his farewell speech in Chicago, the place where it all started for him. He gave an inspiring speech in 60 minutes, not just to America, but the world. Here’s what he said:
 
 
 
 
