HYDERABAD: An extensive   across   of the country , including the city , will only   the years as governments fail to cut down on  , top   experts said.

 As Hyderabad witnesses its worst summer in recent years with maximum temperature breaching the 43 degrees Celsius mark on a regular basis, scientists say the recorded maximum temperature in summer will eventually become the average temperature due to global warming.
 
 “The extreme temperature will increase as we progress through the 21st century . Major scientific studies show there is a 90 percent chance of monthly average temperature to be more than the record seen so far,“ said G Bala, a top climate change expert at Indian Institute of Science's Divecha Centre for Climate Change in Bangalore.
 
 “Whatever you see today , it's definitely going to be the norm by the end of the century. The spike will be gradual every year,“ Bala added.
 
 Since 2010, the city's daily temperature has been above normal averages right through April and May with strong dry winds worsening the situation and brief spells of rain providing partial relief. “These rains are completely random and nothing major should be read into it,“ the scientist added.
 
 Climate change experts say a sharp rise in day temperature will be witnessed more from February itself and likely to worsen in the April-May period. “It's definitely going to get hotter in the coming years and we did predict a one degree rise above normal this year. All this is happening due to gradual rise in temperature and every decade is witnessing a 0.2 degree rise in temperature,“ said YK Reddy, in-charge director (IMD Hyderabad).
 
 More than 4,000 people have died in the twin Telugu states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh over the last four years, government data shows.
 
 Activists say since April 1, this year, at least 160 people have died from sunstroke in Telangana. The government says they are still examining the deaths. Scientists say rising sea levels, coastal erosion and soaring temperature are the three major worries for authorities moving forward.
 
 Seasonally , Telangana and Andhra Pradesh is warmest in May and it's going to get hotter, experts said, blaming Co2 emissions coming from all over the world as the reason.“Rising pollution and rapid deforestation is adding to the problems,“ Reddy added.
 
