NEW DELHI/CHENNAI: The Centre on Tuesday expressed its concern to the Sri Lankan government over 
  , allegedly by the   on Monday.

 "Government of India is deeply concerned at the killing of an  . Our High Commissioner to   has taken up the matter with the Prime Minister of Sri Lanka," highly placed sources in the government told TOI.
 
 The source added that Sri Lankan Navy has promised a full and thorough investigation into the incident.
 
 Meanwhile, protests erupted in  's   after 22-year-old Britso, a fisherman from Thangachimadam, was shot dead on Monday, allegedly by the Sri Lankan Navy personnel while he was fishing in a mechanised boat at a short distance off Katchatheevu islet. Two more fishermen reportedly suffered injuries in the firing.
 
 Hundreds of fishermen staged a demonstration at Thangachimadam, demanding the arrest of the of the Lankan navy men involved in the incident.
 
 The protesting fishermen also refused to accept Britso's body unless foreign minister Sushma Swaraj visits the island and gives them assurance that such incidents will not happen in the future.
 
 Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced Rs 5 lakh ex gratia for the victim's family and Rs 1 lakh for the fishermen injured in the shooting.
 
 In a statement, the chief minister said the fishermen set out for fishing on Monday in a mechanised boat from Rameswaram fishing base. The Lankan Navy opened fire on the innocent fishermen, without any warning or provocation, at 9.30 PM.
  
 "I am deeply saddened by the death of Britso of Thangachimadam, who died on the spot. Saron is getting treatment at Ramanathapuram government hospital. I have ordered the district administration to offer high class treatment to him," Palaniswami said in a statement.
 
 DMK president   also condemned the killing of the fisherman and urged Centre to take strong action.
 
 "It's high time the Central Government reacts strongly to this problem. The Central Government cannot be a mute spectator. It should take up this issue with Indian ambassador in Sri Lanka or the High Commission of Sri Lanka in India," Stalin said.
 
 
 
 
