Amritsar: The Sangat Langha Kartarpur (SLK) has urged Gurdaspur Lok Sabha constituency voters to pick someone in the bypolls scheduled for October 11, who will not only take up the issue of   in Parliament but also get it implemented within a fixed timeframe.

 Talking to TOI on Monday, SLK president B S Goraya said that elections were the most appropriate time to take up the issues requiring political leaders’ attention. He said that SLK held a meeting on Monday and gave a call to the voters of Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency.
 
 After completing four journeys, founder of Sikhism Guru Nanak Dev had reached Kartarpur, now in Narowal district of Pakistan, in 1522 and lived a simple life tilling fields for nearly 17 years before leaving for heavenly abode in 1539. Later, a gurdwara was constructed at Kartarpur, which is now in Pakistan and less than 4 km from the international border at Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district.
 
 In 1999, then Pakistan President Pervez Musharaff had offered the Indian Sikhs to visit Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib from Dera Baba Nanak without a passport and visa. However, till date no formal proposal has been submitted with the government.
 
 Under pressure from the Sikh Diaspora, the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) had proposed to get the gurdwara prasad delivered to the Indian border in Dera Baba Nanak. Again no formal proposal was sent to the Indian government.
 
 In the past, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa had proposed to swap land with Pakistan to include Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in India. Bajwa had cited example of swapping of 12 villages near Sulemanki, Fazilka, post Partition for getting back the land where martyr Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev were cremated.
 
 Agreeing with Goraya, president of Kartarpur Darshan Abhilakhi Sanstha, Kuldeep Singh Wadala, said the Centre was not taking any concrete measure for the construction of the corridor when Punjab assembly had on October 1, 2010, passed a resolution urging the Centre to approve the corridor plan.
 
 
