CHENNAI: Thousands of engineers graduate out of college every year, but find it difficult to find a footing because of their raw  . 

 Experts say that although institutions have invested more to train and sharpen soft skills of their students, this has not showed any marked improvement as learning English for only two semesters does not help.
 
 According to a 2016 survey by Aspiring Minds, only 7% engineers were found 'employable'. Besides lack of sufficient core disciplinary knowledge, a big reason was their lack of communication skills. "Nearly 90% of the students from rural and town-based engineering colleges have trouble communicating even two sentences fluently in English," said Albert P Ryan, professor of English & head, higher education at KCG College of Technology. 
 
 According to a study done in towns like Tiruvannamalai and Trichy, colleges which boasted about 85% pass percentage did not have students who could converse fluently in English, he said. Although institutions like   and its affiliated colleges have followed what is called the 'ESP' ( ) model that aims to build English language curriculum based on specific courses (like 'English for medical professionals', or 'English for engineers'), educationists said the system has failed to generate students with better communication skills or command over English, needed for employment in industries across the country.
 
 K Elango, national secretary, English Language Teachers' Association and former faculty member at Anna University, attributes two reasons for this. 
 
 "The   is not incorporating enough linguistic aspects from a discipline into the syllabus. Specific lexicons and registers from a particular discipline like software engineering should be framed into what students learn as 'Technical English'," he said. Elango said while 'reading' and 'writing' aspects are covered by English taught at engineering institutions, the 'speaking' and 'listening' parts prioritised in workplaces and universities abroad are neglected, and are often outsourced.
 
