BHOPAL: After chief minister   shook   administration from its deep slumber, minister for health Rustam Singh paid a surprise visit to   and pulled up the kitchen staff for unhygienic conditions on Wednesday. There are several complaints against poor services at the government hospitals. 

 The minister started his surprise visit from gynaecology department, and interacted with the patients. "I received several complaints about poor services, bad sanitation, unavailability of medicines," said the minister adding he also inquired about them getting sweets in the ward.
 
 When asked about his view on the hospital kitchen, he said, the kitchen was untidy and waste was strewn all over." He warned the staff to dress neatly and use washed, clean aprons, as they they are mainly interacting with patients, who are at the risk of infection.
 
 Minister said he has sought report within eight days from now. When asked about the surprise visit, the minister said he intended at a surprise visit but someone seems to have spilled the beans and alerted the hospital administration as a result of which the corridors, balconies and galleries were unexpectedly seen clean. Also, he said the patients in wards were given clean blankets before his arrival.
 
 About the new administrative building which is being constructed for women patients, he said, construction work is almost complete, and by January 26, the building would be equipped with machines and beds and would be inaugurated by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.
 
 "There is a need to increase the number of beds in the hospital," said Singh, adding, the third sonography machine would start functioning soon. Principal secretary health   had accompanied the minister during the inspection.
 
 When the minister reached vaccination room, he talked to some patients and sought their feedback and was happy to learn about a positive feedback on a compunder.
 
 "I have instructed the doctors to reward him for his services, and encourage staff to interact with the patients, which would also help in building the image of government hospitals," said the minister.
 
 He assured patients that facility for hip transplantation would be started at the hospital. "When I talked to doctors about the problem regarding the operation, they shared that a surgeon with MCh degree which is needed for the operation was unavailable," he said.
 
