BENGALURU: Two months after demonetization, business in Bengaluru’s trading and retail hub of Chickpet, Avenue Road and Mamulpet has improved from the lows of November and the first half of December, but it is still down significantly.

 Traders provided different figures, but on an average, transaction values are about 60% of what it was prior to demonetization. In the weeks immediately following the withdrawal of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes, business had crashed to less than a third of the normal.
 
 One trader said business is not anywhere close to what it was an year ago. “Demonetization is an attempt to clean up the financial system and will have long-term benefits, but for business, it’s like restarting a game,” said a jeweller.
 
 Traders, who deal with a range of products, including clothes, jewellery, bangles, books and electronic products, blame it on the continuing withdrawal limits – set at Rs 50,000 for current accounts and Rs 24,000 for savings accounts. “This is much below than what is required to run any business,” said Prakash, owner of jewellery store Rajatmahal.
 
 Sajjan Raj Mehta, a wholesale supplier of women’s western wear and former president of Karnataka Hosiery and Garments Association, said if a person has money in his or her account, the government shouldn’t be bothered about how it is spent. “There must be no cap on withdrawals,” he said. 
 
 Businesses require cash payments for day-to-day expenses like wages and transportation. Digital modes of payment are still not popular. Most traders said the surge in demand had made it difficult to obtain swipe machines. They are also not enthusiastic about these machines because of, what they call, “high” extra charges on credit card payments.
 
 Harish Singh, owner of wholesale clothing store  , said an additional 10-15% of transactions have moved from cash to cheques and other digital modes in the past two months. However, many vendors still ask for cash.
 
 Venkatesh Prasad, who runs a jewellery store, said traders are unaware of the benefits of using technology or how to use it. “For something new to be adopted, it must be taught first,” he said. Some are also apprehensive about digital modes. “We don’t know where that money goes,” said a trader.
 
 Lower tax, say traders
 
 Several traders felt demonetization will have no impact on the level of unaccounted transactions, and the only way to bring these transactions into the formal network was to lower taxes.
 
 “Businessmen will start unaccounted transactions because the taxes are too high. So what is the purpose of demonetization? If tax is lowered, more people will pay and accountability will increase. All businesses want to account for all transactions,” a jeweller said.
 
 Business owners say they cannot afford to pay at the current tax rates if they have to have 5%-10% profit margin.
 
 “Income tax should be reduced by 10% and non-taxable income should be set at Rs 5 lakh. I don’t have a problem with sales tax, but income tax is very high,” said Dilip, a clothes dealer.
 
 
