BENGALURU: It was a see-saw battle for supremacy in the second Test between India and Australia on the third day, with the visiting side letting slip the advantage it had seized on the first two days here at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium.

 While the pre-lunch session on Monday belonged to the home side, Steve Smith and his band of aggressive men from Down Under were again in the ascendency post lunch. India though had the final say, given the way the final session panned out.
 
 Having conceded a first innings lead of 87,   and his men were 2134 in 72 overs when stumps were drawn for an overall lead of 126 with six wickets in hand.
 
 This surface has rewarded batsmen who have shown character, intent and resolve. On Monday,   (79 batting; 173b, 4x6), KL Rahul (51; 85b, 4x4) and   (40 batting; 105b, 3x4) stepped up to be counted. The three pulled India out of a spot of bother and for the first time in this series, India went past the 200-run mark.
 
 After Rahul's typical grit at the top of the order, Pujara and Rahane unfurled delectable cover-drives and sleek pulls as they wrestled with the task of gaining some momentum. With two full days left in this contest, a tight finish is in order.
 
 The hosts began their second innings in far more sprightly fashion than they have ever done in three innings, as Rahul and Abhinav Mukund (16; 32b, 1x4, 1x6) took the fight to the Aussie attack. The uneven bounce notwithstanding, Mukund offered promise of a big knock as he pulled pace ace Mitchell Starc for six behind the wicket. But it proved to be all bluff and bluster as   (357) sent the left-hander's timber cartwheeling in the first over after lunch.
 
 Rahul, a picture of confidence and deft footwork, added 45 runs for the second wicket with Pujara before a blinder from Smith ended the opener's resistance on his home ground. With the second slip vacant, Rahul edged in that direction, but Smith, in a jaw-dropping display of reaction and acrobatics, launched himself from first slip and pulled the ball out of thin air to send back Rahul.
 
 The move to promote Ravindra Jadeja up the order to keep a left-right combination going backfired as the left-hander lost his middle stump to Hazlewood, whose short-of-the length deliveries beat the Indian batsmen regularly initially.
 
 The 26-year-old, known for his accuracy, had earlier dealt India their worst blow when skipper Kohli (15; 25b, 1x4) was adjudged leg-before. No sooner had umpire Nigel Llong raised his finger than Kohli opted for a review. The skipper walked back after television umpire Richard Kettleborough deliberated for long before deciding that there was no conclusive evidence to overturn the on-field call.
 
 Rahane, who has had a difficult run at home, joined Pujara and the duo livened up the final session of play after starting off rather cautiously. With every run on the board, the batsmen grew in confidence, stepped out of their defensive mould and put away the loose balls to the fence. The final session, the maiden one in this Test in which a wicket had not tumbled, yielded 91 runs in 33 overs. The Pujara-Rahane combine was worth 93 at stumps, every run a crucial addition to the total.
 
 Earlier, India who were looking to keep the deficit to the bare minimum, bowled out Australia for 276 in 69 minutes of play on the third morning. As Australia resumed on 237 for 6, Jadeja (663) completed his six-wicket haul, his second best in Test cricket, and played a part in all the four dismissals in the morning. First he helped in getting rid of Starc (26, 52b, 2x4), who went for a big one past deep midwicket, plucking the ball off the air at the boundary.
 
 In the space of five runs he cleaned up the rest, with Matthew Wade (40, 113b, 4x4) and Nathan Lyon trapped in front of the wicket, while Hazlewood was caught by Rahul at long on to bring the curtain down on the innings.
 
