PATNA: Come April and there starts a   among +2 students seeking admission to reputed colleges of the city. All the premier institutes, including National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT), Chandragupta Institute of Management Patna (CIMP),   (CNLU), Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) and Patna University (PU) have already announced their admission schedules for the next academic session starting in July and are busy shortlisting eligible candidates.

 NIFT-P offers four-year Bachelor of Design and Bachelor of Fashion Technology courses to the students admitted through a national level entrance test followed by group discussion and personal interview. There are altogether 150 seats in different   According to NIFT faculty member Vinayak Yasraj, “The entrance test was held on February 12. After the group discussion and the personal interview, the final results will be published by the end of May and counselling of selected candidates done in June.”
 
 CIMP has already started the process of admission to its two-year   In Management programme. The last date for submission of application forms ended on March 26. The candidates are shortlisted for group discussion and personal interview on the basis of their scores in CAT-2016, XAT-2017 and CMAT-2017. Academic profile and work experience of candidates, if any, are also considered. Group discussion and personal interview for city-based candidates were held on Monday and Tuesday, while the same for outsiders will be commence on April 9. At least 60 students are to be admitted to the course.
 
 CNLU will admit 120 students to its five-year BA LLB (Hons) and BBA LLB (Hons) courses on the basis of the results of the   (CLAT) to be held on May 14 (3pm to 5pm). “At least 20 additional seats are available for foreign nationals and NRIs,” said registrar S P Singh on Wednesday, adding the minimum qualification for admission to these courses was +2.
 
 Singh pointed out that this year CNLU had been entrusted with the task of conducting CLAT on the basis of which admissions would be held in 18 premier law institutions of the country. “The last date for online submission of forms is March 31 and the hall tickets can be downloaded from April 20 onwards. The results of CLAT-2017 will be published on May 29 and the first indicative seat allotment list based on merit-cum-preference published on June 5,” he added. 
 
 The process of online admission to different undergraduate courses in the colleges of PU started on Monday. According to registrar G K Palei, candidates seeking admission to a particular course in different colleges of PU will have to fill up separate forms, but only one entrance test fee. The varsity will arrange faculty wise combined entrance test for all the colleges and the selection list will be published on the basis of merit-cum-preference of candidates. The last date for online submission of forms is May 2.
 
 CUSB has already started the sale of application forms for admission to its various undergraduate courses, including the four-year integrated BA/BSc-BEd and the five-year integrated BA/BSc-LLB (Hons) programmes. PRO Md Mudassir Alam said, “The last date for submission of online forms is April 14. The admit cards for the entrance test can be downloaded from CUSB’s website from May 5 onwards. The online test will be conducted on May 17 and 18 at several centres in Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and some other cities of the country. The results of CUCET-2017 will be declared on June 7 followed by the completion of admission process which will be notified later.”
 
 
