KOLKATA: The   government is determined to clear the   related to the terminal complex of the  . It has delegated mayor Sovan Chatterjee to put the ambitious project back on track.

 TOI reported on Monday that the fate of the Rs 4,500-crore airport corridor depends on the whims of one person and his family comprising 16 claimants who had declined to accept the land-related compensation. Their are refusing to give up a 96-cottah plot for the terminal station of the 32km key connectivity.
 
 Sources said after the publication of the report, the chief minister called Chatterjee asking him to sort out the problem “immediately”. The mayor then called local Trinamool leaders of the area (Garagachha) where Rabin Sardar and his family members had led a “land agitation” against the project.
 
 The mayor said, “We are determined to sort out this New Garia-Airport issue because the land has already been acquired by the railways. Our biggest interest here is the city, and we will ensure that there is no further delay in executing this important route.” Chatterjee said he has been “assigned” the job (of removing hurdles for the project) at the behest of the chief minister. “I came to know about the problem only yesterday, after the report appeared in newspaper (TOI). I have been asked by the CM to get to the bottom of the matter and sort things out,” he said. He also called implementing agency RVNL’s officers. 
 
 On January 7, Sardar and his men, brandishing Trinamool flags, “assaulted and chased away workers of Metro and construction company ITDC”. When officers from Patuli PS reached the spot, they allegedly fenced off the area and blocked Metro workers from entering. Since then, piling work for the terminal station has stopped.
 
 On Tuesday, Rabin said, “A  , identifying himself as Shyamal Banerjee, called me on Monday. I told him that I am unwell. Therefore, I should be left out of the whole thing and they should talk to my brother Ranen.” Ranen’s phone remained switched off throughout the day.
 
 Metro CPRO Indrani Banerjee said, “Metro has taken initiatives to resolve the stalemate in a meeting on January 27 with the principal secretary, transport.” Meanwhile, a meeting was held at Nabanna to fast-track all five Metro projects in the city that received 80% budgetary allocation. Among those who attended the meeting were mayor Sovan Chatterjee, chief secretary Basudeb Banerjee, home secretary Moloy De, transport secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay and land reforms commissioner Manoj Panth. 
 
 
