After writing an open letter, appealing to the public to actively  , Thiruvannamalai’s collector Prashant M Wadnere has been labouring with workers to build   across the district. In a chat with Saranya Chakrapani, he tells what drives him to lend a hand, literally, to labourers at check dam sites and why collective water management is the need of the hour

 
 
 
 Working for the welfare of people, is something that goes beyond roles, procedures and official methodology. In a democracy, people must equally participate in social welfare work as government, NGO and designated local bodies. As a state that understands the significance of water, people must come forward and join hands with the authorities to make conservation initiatives a success.
 
 
 
 
 I started working on check dam sites in the beginning of April. Ever since, I spend two hours working with labourers on sites every Saturday, and have worked on seven sites so far.
 
 
 
 Ever since I have started lending physical labour on sites, I have seen many students and youngsters join me when I step out for work. In my open letter I had listed out the ways in which people could do their bit; under the State’s Self-Sufficiency Scheme (SSS), one can provide monetary help by sponsoring one-third of the expenditure of any village-level infrastructure project. I have appealed to people to join work at check dam sites and build recharge pits in their own neighbourhoods, which many are now doing, according to the reports we get. People have also been stone-walling their farms to prevent soil erosion and are coming forward to cut seemai karuvelam (Prosopis juliflora) trees too.
 
 
 
 
 The main challenge is that we don’t view water scarcity as a long-term issue. I have mentioned this in my letter too. Rains are like a guest; they may come for four to five months and leave. The water that percolates during these months is all we have to survive the next eight months. We must work towards recharging ground water — our only permanent source of water. If it is limited, sustain it like you would sustain a limited salary for an entire month. I see farmers living near water bodies planting water-intensive crops such as sugarcane or banana, even as the rest of the village runs dry and opts for millet cultivation. These farmers must understand that percolated water is a common resource that everyone is entitled to. There is an urgent need for collective water management.
 
 
 
 In Thiruvannamalai district alone, we have 1900 tanks. The government has come up with the  , under which the Water Users’ Association can contribute along with the government towards tank restoration projects. We had planned to build 1037 check dams in one month, out of which 1011 are done. But a check dam is just one step towards water conservation. The message we want to send out is one that is popularly used in water conservation: ‘make running water walk, walking water stop and stopped water percolate.’
 
 
