AHMEDABAD: In a bid to raise education standards in Gujarat, the state education department has decided to introduce   in classes IX and XI from academic year 2018-19. The   syllabus will be introduced in the class X and X boards exams from the academic year 2019-20.

 Highly places sources in the education department said the decision follows persistent demands from the academic fraternity and parents, to introduce the CBSE syllabus at state board schools to put students on a level playing field for national entrance exams like Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for engineering courses and National Eligibilty Entrance Test (NEET). The decision will affect some 30 lakh students at the 10,000-odd secondary and higher secondary schools across Gujarat. 
 
 “Introduction of   books in state board schools was being mulled over for years, following representations by parents, teachers, principals and academicians. Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board formed an expert commitee to review whether NCERT syllabus should be introuduced in state schools or not. The board had given the green signal, saying that the syllabus followed by CBSE will help local students perform better at NEET and JEE exams,” said a top official of state education department.
 
 In academic year 2016-17, the state ran a pilot project where the CBSE syllabus was taught in English, math and science subjects in class IX in English medium schools. It got a good response from students, teachers and principals.
 
 After this success, the pilot project was extended to 60 Gujarati medium schools for academic year 2017-18. Officials said that while English medium schools will just adopt NCERT books, a three-tier mechanism will be put in place to translate and review books for the Gujarati medium. Social studies subject books will be changed to include more social issues from the state. 
 
 
 
 
 The education department's decision to introduce the NCERT syllabus in schools run by the state board in higher secondary classes will help students be better prepared to face national competitive exams for professional courses. The move would be more beneficial if the NCERT syllabus is introduced from class 5 instead of class 9, as that would create a stronger foundation. 
 
 
