It was a textbook rape-cum-murder case, and the perpetrator,  , 23, was sentenced to death, too.

 But, the man escaped the noose by a whisker, as a Madras high court division bench of Justice S Nagamuthu and  , gave a thought to his young age and considered it an important mitigating factor, along with other legal points such as absence of any witness and failure of officials to record his voluntary confession in an acceptable manner.
 
 The bench has now commuted his death sentence into imprisonment for life, but made it clear he cannot be considered for any remission benefit for 20 years.
 
 Manivel had been arrested for the rape and murder of 23-year-old woman employee of a medical shop in   district. On November 23, 2013, as she was cycling home after work, Manivel intercepted her at a desolate spot and dragged her into a clump of bushes.He raped her and smothered her to death before tying the body to the bicycle and pushed it into a nearby canal.
 
 As he was leaving, the woman's brother came looking for her. He spotted Manivel rushing away on his bike with headlights switched off.Some of Manivel's acquaintances too noticed he was tense and asked if anything was wrong. He told one of them he had hit a woman on bicycle and that he sped off since she had fallen into a canal. The man got into the canal to rescue the woman, but realized she had died and that the body was tied to the cycle. By the time he climbed up, Manivel had sped away.
 
 All this, in addition to the presence of his semen on the victim's garments by DNA analysis, proved Manivel's involvement in the heinous crime. The case was handed over to the CB-CID on suspi cion that more people might have been involved. CB-CID concluded that Manivel was the lone culprit, and fi led a chargesheet. On Sep tember 20, 2016, a mahila court in   found him guilty and sentenced him to death.
 
 While holding that there was no doubt about Manivel's involvement in the murder, the bench said there were a lot of mitigating circumstances to conclude he did not deserve to die. First, he was only 23, had no bad antecedents and wa sa bachelor. “From the records it is seen that driven by sexual urge, he committed the rape, and then, probably, with a view to escape from the clutches of law, committed the murder and threw the body into water. Having regard to these mitigating circumstances, we are of the view that it is not a fit case to impose death penalty,“ the judges said. They accordingly modified the death penalty part of the punishment.
 
