NAGPUR: City academicians, professional instructors and students sounded pretty happy with the central government’s decision to hold a single entrance test for   and architecture courses. 

 Last week, the Union human resource development ministry asked the   (AICTE) to issue a “suitable regulation” for the implementation of the proposal from the academic year 2018-19. The test shall be conducted multiple times a year, as is the case with college admission tests like SAT in the US.
 
 Career counsellor Nihit Mor said, “It is a good decision since it is less complicated. Better comparison between candidates as same all students would be on the platform. Proper grading will be done now. There is no need for multiple forms so naturally it will save a lot of money of students. This will result in less headache too as keeping track of different exams and dates was taking a toll. Cut offs would indicate colleges’ ranking. Some of them used to admit students on the basis of their own test.”
 
 Sarang Upganlawar, who runs a private institute, said, “I hope this remains as a final decision. I is a very good decision by the government. A single entrance test will help students in many ways. A student can start career planning right from STD VII or VIIIth. There was so much confusion. While one exam was enough, states and colleges used to hold individual exams. Over the years, I have seen the system in the US has remained same. They still hold one exam, GRE, for their students. Our students are hard working, but that didn’t mean they should be asked to write hundreds of exams.” 
 
 Rahul Zunzunwala, who too runs a director of a coaching centre, said, “More awareness about good colleges in other states would spread among city students who generally know only about Pune and Mumbai. It will also create a naturally sense of competition among colleges leading to better academic circulum.”
 
 A Class XII student said, “I think it is good. There was a need to centralize engineering or architecture entrance. State governments can also independently hold engineering entrances at least for sometime. It will also save a lot of money of students.”
 
 Sanjay Charalwar, principal of Mohta Science College, said, “It is a student-centric decision and this is the very reason we back home conduct centralized admission process (CAP).”
 
 
