BHUBANESWAR: Rural polls are fought in the dusty bylanes, many located in remote and inaccessible pockets. However, campaigning for the five-phase panchayat elections in Odisha saw unprecedented use of   by the  , far more than the ruling   and the opposition  . After the dramatic resurgence of the saffron party, it's campaign style has been a subject of discussion. 

 The campaigning came to an end on Sunday, two days before the last round of poll scheduled for Tuesday.
 
 The BJP state unit (@BJP4Odisha) aggressively posted texts, photos and video clips on various poll issues such as bad roads, poor drinking water shortage to chit fund scam, Naveen government's failure and Modi government's crusade against black money while seeking votes. A four-member BJP team worked overtime to keep its social media forums update. "We aggressively used WhatsApp to connect with workers and with the media. It helped us quickly assess a situation and react," said BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma.
 
 BJP poster boy in state, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who held 44 rallies in 24 of the 30 districts in past 10 days, has been hyperactive on social media these days with postings mostly criticising Naveen and highlighting Modi government's achievements. Union minister Jual Oram was not far behind either. 
 
 The seriousness that the BJP attached to the ongoing election can be gauged from the fact that Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned about the party's performance in Odisha during an election rally in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday followed by party president Amit Shah tweeting about it the next day. Naveen is yet to make any comment on the poll results.
 
 In social media campaign, the BJP seemed to have an upper hand during the polls if the number of its posts on a daily basis was anything to go by. Neither Naveen, nor BJD (@bjd_odisha) posted much relating to the rural poll on Twitter. Dharmendra, the BJP's face to take on Naveen, has 3.05 lakh followers on Twitter (@dpradhanbjp) while Naveen has its one-third, around 1.27 lakh followers. The BJP's Twitter account has 1.84 lakh followers while the BJD has just 29,000.
 
 Chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who did not hit the campaign trail except for road shows in his own assembly segment of Hinjili, reached out to people and sought votes for his party through recorded voice messages over phone. Hoping that rural Odisha is crazy is about film stars, the BJD massively used Ollywood actors.
 
 What stood out in the campaign was the verbal aggression shown by the BJP, the BJD and the Congress towards each other. The Congress relied more on traditional campaign by its senior party leaders and MLAs. Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee president Prasad Harichandan held rallies in most of the districts. However, the party did not use social media much. Hardly any senior central leader of the party came for campaigning. 
 
 
