Nagpur: A melodious programme of songs was organized at  , Sitabuldi, to welcome rains and consequently ‘Shravan maas’, which is considered to be the holiest month for religious practices. In its nearly 60 years of existence, ‘Varsha Milan’ is being celebrated almost every year, said newly elected president Kavita Shah. 

 Unlike the past, singers were roped in from outside the community this year. Moreover, a slew of small but fun-filled activities were organized for the guests.
 
 “There are several singers and music enthusiasts in our group. Thus, every year, they would practice and perform at the event. But when professionals perform, it gives a different feel and makes the event more melodious,” said Shah. 
 
 City singers Anil Bhagat and Archana Shyamkunwar began the show by singing popular retro Bollywood songs associated with rain — ‘Sawan ka mahina’, ‘Ek ladki bheegi bhaagi si’, ‘Dam dam diga diga’, ‘Rimjhim gire saawan’, ‘Pyaar hua ikraar hua’, ‘Bheegi bheegi raaton mein’ and many more.
 
 Shah also asked questions related to the movies or actors to the audience and gave away prizes to those who made correct guesses.
 
 Nearly 16 melodies were presented by the singers who were accompanied by Pravin Boke on tabla and Shekhar Shyamkunwar on octopod.
 
  After that, singer Palak Karia regaled the audience with traditional Gujarati songs, bringing nostalgia and memories to the guests.
 
  ‘Mor bani dhangat kare’, ‘Sawariyo’, ‘Chelaji re mari hatu’ and ‘Paan lilu joyu’ were some of the melodies. Though electricity supply went off for some time, the audience stayed put and motivated the singers.
 
 Nearly hundred women of the community partook in the celebrations. There were also early bird prizes and selfie zone arranged for them.
 
  The installation of the Gujarati Mahila Samaj was held recently, and ‘Varsha Milan’ was the first programme to be helmed by the newly elected members of the group.
 
  In April, the group had also organized a programme to educate women on understanding privacy settings of media platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp.
 
 
