NEW DELHI: The three   have once again fared abysmally in the   

  was placed at 196, south at 202 and north at 279 among 434 cities. Last year, 73 cities had been ranked and south had occupied the 39th rank, north was ranked 43rd while east had the worst score among the three at 52. This time, though, east is the best among the three. 
 
 East corporation was affected by several strikes by sanitation workers and had a poor image. “We have a perception problem, but we also have the biggest challenges in the capital as our areas largerly consist of unauthorised colonies and slum clusters. Despite the fiscal constraints, we have been able to open a waste-to-energy plant at Ghazipur and construction   at Shastri Park,” said a senior official. 
 
 The survey had a total of 2,000 points of which 900 were for civic amenities, 500 from on-site inspections and 600 from citizen feedback. East corporation received 1,004 points. 
 
 South received 984 points and was placed below Karimnagar in Telangana. Its commissioner said, “There must have been some shortcoming in the projection or there may be some mistake in our documentation. Next time, we will aim for a place among the top five cities.”
 
 North corporation scored 834 points and was placed below Sasaram in Bihar. Senior officials said they missed a large chunk of points due to the late opening of the Narela-Bawana waste-to-energy plant. “The survey was conducted in October while the plant was inaugurated this March. Our ranking could have been much better if the project was not delayed. We will study the results and improve our efforts to achieve the sanitation goals,” an official said. Interestingly, he also said that the corporation would soon launch a communication-based campaign to change the behaviour of the people. 
 
 Swati Sambyal, an expert on waste management at Centre for Science and Environment said the ranking methodology is vague. “There are wonderful examples of Alappuzha and Panaji where wonderful things are being done in terms of waste segreagtion and recycling. But Alappuzha is ranked 380,” she said. 
 
 
