CHENNAI:   in the city had a particularly profitable Wednesday, escaping with   worth more than Rs 20 lakh and at least Rs 5 lakh in   from three  .

 At Villivakkam, thieves escaped with 15 sovereigns (120g) of gold jewellery worth Rs 3.44 lakh, Rs 5 lakh in cash and and a laptop from a DMK member’s house.
 
 Police said Vasu, a resident of Sidco Nagar, and his family was at their son’s wedding reception at Maduravoyal when the thieves struck.
 
 The groom’s father took 55 sovereigns of gold jewellery to the marriage hall and left behind 15 sovereigns of gold and Rs 5 lakh cash at home. Vasu later sent his son Mani to bring the remaining jewellery and cash from their house.
 
 When he got home, the front door and a cupboard was broken open, and the jewellery and cash his father left inside was missing. He alerted his father, who lodged a complaint with the Villivakkam police.
 
 Investigators took reams of footage from security cameras from the spot and nearby to establish the burglars’ identity.
 
 At Elephant Gate, burglars took 10 sovereigns (80g) of gold jewellery worth 2.3 lakh and silver articles from a businessman’s house on Wednesday night.
 
 “Saravanan had left for Tirupur and his wife and children were away too,” an investigating officer said. “When Saravanan returned, he found someone had pulled a cupboard toward a broken window.”
 
 Police officers suspect burglars used iron rods to pull the cupboard toward the window, broke it open and made away with the booty.
 
 The biggest haul on Wednesday night took place at Peravallur, where burglars escaped with 65 sovereigns (520g) of gold jewellery worth Rs 14.9 lakh and Rs 25,000 cash from the house of an auditor.
 
 Police sources said that Mythili, an auditor, was at her workplace in Alwarpet, when the theft took place.
 
 Mythili’s maid Rani helped her with household chores. On Wednesday, when Rani came home, she found someone had broken open the front door lock and ransacked a cupboard. She alerted Mythili who took the matter to the Peravallur police.
 
 
