MUMBAI: Over 15 vertical   and nine horizontal metal   were used as props to support Shiv Sena worker Sunil Shitap’s ground-floor premises at  , which crashed on Tuesday, say   officials. Preliminary inspection shows that   and   supporting the four-storey   had been illegally cut to expand Shitap’s premises and replaced with metal pipes and angles, local ward officials told TOI. 

 Investigation has also reportedly revealed that the water tank atop the building—which is still miraculously intact —was on the right side of the building and Shitap’s workers were carrying out repairs on that very side. “The water tank was already weighing on the structure and with the labourers tampering with the beams on that very side, the building probably could not take the weight any longer and crashed,” said a BMC official. Fire officials found that those who were on the building’s right side could not survive the  . On the other hand, those stuck on the staircase were rescued. Seventeen people, including two infants, lost their lives in the crash. Rescue operations for survivors were carried out for more than 30 hours, till the debris was completely cleared.
 
 BMC officials from N Ward have deposited the metal pipes and angles found in the debris with Vikhroli’s Parksite police, saying these could serve as crucial evidence during investigation. A civic official said, “Load-bearing beams were shifted and the pipes were put up for support but we never received a complaint from any resident regarding the repair work carried out by Shitap.”
 
 A BMC official said that Shitap, who has been arrested following the crash, began reconstruction work only on Monday and that the residents had planned to meet him to raise their grievances the next day—when the structure crashed. 
 
 Residents, on their part, have denied the BMC’s claim and said that work was being carried out for almost a fortnight before the crash. 
 
 Civic officials said that though the building had received an occupation certificate way back in the 1983, it did not figure in the BMC’s list of dilapidated buildings. 
 
 It may be noted that the N Ward in Ghatkopar has no mukadam whose job is to visit the ward area and check for illegal construction or repair works. “Since the repairs that Shitap was carrying out were in no way tenantable, there no requirement for any permission from the BMC. A BMC permission is required for any repair pertaining to FSI,” said a civic official.
 
