HIMMATNAGAR: On Tuesday,   warrior   stepped onto the soil of Gujarat after spending six months in exile. Thousands turned up to prove the young Turk has lost none of his following among masses. The poster boy of the Patidar quota agitation, in his turn, made it clear that he remained true to his cause and will fight till the end to gain OBC quota for Patidars.

 “I am ready to fight for OBC quota for Patidars, my first priority. I’m ready for a legal fight, and even ready for a GMDC-ground-like ‘dangal’,” said Hardik to his followers. “If the government is ready, it should give us permission for a rally at GMDC ground,” said Hardik, referring to the rally on August 25, 2015, that had brought the Patel agitation to the fore. Violence at the rally had spread ripples across the state leading to widespread rioting and police action in which 13 persons were killed.
 
 The 23-year-old convener of   (PAAS), rolled into the state accompanied by a cavalcade of hundreds of cars. He was given a grand welcome by his supporters at Ratanpur on the border of Rajasthan.
 
 At Himmatnagar, thousands showered flowers on Hardik at a public rally, his supporters gifted him a framed picture of Shaheed   and a wooden plough. Hardik, who looked rested and fit was dressed in a T-shirt carrying images of his favourite personalities, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Shaheed Bhagat Singh, and Maratha leader Chattrapati Shivaji.
 
  Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani welcomed Hardik, who said he was ready to join hands with Mevani and OBC leader Alpesh Thakor as they were all fighting for causes of their own communities. Hardik stressed that the government should give reservation in proportion to the strength of communities. The Patidar leader proved that his time away from the state had matured him in more ways than age. Playing to the sentiments of the police posted at the rally, Hardik said referring the GMDC ground incident, “Cops had acted on behest of the government.
 
 Most of you must also be on fixed pay. I beseech you to join our agitation for justice.” Hardik had earlier demanded strict action against police excesses post the August 25 rally in GMDC ground. “Our fight is not against any community, but against injustice towards Patidar community where a widow's son cannot get admission despite scoring 95% marks. Government has slapped sedition charges against me. Even if I get 14 years in jail, I will be only 37 years when released, and will serve the society and nation,” said Hardik.
 
 Less crowds due to Khodaldham temple festivities
 
 Himmatnagar: There were less crowds at Hardik Patel’s welcome to Gujarat as compared to those who had swelled along the border to send him off to Udaipur for his exile six months ago. A fact which even Hardik acknowledged during his rally, “There were massive crowds at GMDC ground as it was big venue and people were charged to come in huge numbers to fill it up. The ground In Himmatnagar today is smaller so one person from a Patel family has been sent as a representative. An event is taking place at Khodaldham temple in Kagvad due to which there are lesser people here”. 
 
