NAYA GAV(AJMER): For all the chest thumping over going cashless, the ground realities at Naya Gav -among the first such villages in the state to celebrate Prime Minister  's dream of a digital future -are a clear indication of how things have gone horribly wrong. On `paper,' this village in Ajmer has become part of the cashless economy, an event that was celebrated with much fanfare on December 17.

 Officially, the village has installed five point of sale (PoS) machines and banking apps have been downloaded on smart phones. While everything looks good from the outset, the lesser known fact is that the village does not have much internet connectivity! And to make matters worse, the PoS machines are not functional.
 
 Three weeks after the village `entered' the digital age, villagers have to travel 3km to the town of Harmara, wait in queues at the local bank and ATM to withdraw money for daily use.
 
 “Almost all of us in the village have an ATM card, but we cannot use them.None of the PoS machines are functional and we have to wait in queues at the nearest bank, which is in Harmara, to withdraw cash to buy supplies. Nothing has changed here,“ said Nandram, a shop owner.
 
 He said that the bank had directed shopkeepers them to open current accounts, following which they were given PoS machines. The village has four grocery shops and a fertilizer shop. The   provided PoS machines to these shops.
 
 “But they are not functional and we continue to deal in cash. As there is some   following demonetisation, I also give stuff on credit. The PoS machines have not made any difference,“ he added.
 
 Villagers said that they require cash to purchase fertilizers and for day-to-day needs. With no change in the requirement of cash, most villagers stand in queued the bank in Harmara to withdraw money.
 
 Ironically , the village still sports large banners declaring that it has become cashless. The village has a population of about 1,600 and 250 houses, with farmers accounting for the majority of the public.
 
 They claim that the bank had also promised to install an ATM in their village on December 17, but nothing has been done. Villagers showed their ATM and RuPay card and said that they were useless because they can't use them. “I have been going to the bank at Harmara for the past three days, but has failed to withdraw any money ,“ said Rammiya, a daily wage labourer. On a lighter note, he added, “There is no money and, hence, we are a `cashless' village!“
 
