SHIMLA: The state government will acquire British-era   Estate located along the Mall Road in Shimla for Rs 27.84 crore.

 Chief minister   said the old building of the Bantony castle would be refurbished and converted into a museum. A recreational park with a restaurant would also be developed in the area, he added.
 
 The decision to acquire the historic building that once served as the palace of Maharaja of Sirmaur was taken during the Cabinet meeting chaired by the CM in Shimla on Wednesday. The Cabinet decided to acquire the entire land of Bantony Castle, near  , by accepting the recommendation of the negotiation committee and approved the payment of Rs 27.84 crore to the land owners for the entire property.
 
 Virbhadra said the proposed museum, restaurant and recreational park would be a great attraction for both tourists and locals. Bantony Estate is spread over around 20,000 square metre area between  .
 
 At present, the double-storey building constructed in mock-Tudor style, part chalet and crowned with sloping roofs with mini-towers is literally on the verge of collapse.
 
 During the previous BJP regime, this sprawling prime property had courted controversy especially when an NRI from London came up with the proposal to construct a hotel. Though the deal was reportedly struck for Rs 45 crore, it did not materialize. At that time, the opposition Congress had vehemently opposed the deal and had even stalled the proceedings of state assembly over the issue.
 
 Bantony Estate was purchased by late   and its registry was done on February 22, 1968. Sources said 10 days after the registration of the property, the then state government had started the acquisition process, but could not succeed.
 
 Post-Independence successive state governments in Himachal Pradesh during the last 49 years have made four failed attempts (1968, 1975, 1986 and 2004) to acquire this property. After coming to power in 2012, Virbhadra Singh-led Congress government had once started the process to acquire the property amid the opposition of its owners.
 
