PANAJI: Launching a scintillating attack on defence minister  , national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party, Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the former chief minister of Goa has thrown out the   report, which he was brandishing during last state assembly elections. 

 “Parrikar was campaigning door-to-door during the last state assembly elections with the Shah Commission report. It stated the loss of state exchequer of Rs 36,000 crore in mining during the Congress regime. He promised to put behind these Congress leaders in jail, if voted to power but now it seems he has thrown the report in the bin,” Kejriwal said, while addressing a public rally in Mapusa, stating that the BJP and the Congress have an unsaid understanding regarding power sharing.
 
 Attacking the BJP on demonetization, Kejriwal said that the move has snatched away jobs from many and if voted to power, AAP will be providing a welfare sum of Rs 5,000 to the unemployed till they find a job. 
 
 “The decision, it seems was taken in haste and has affected the people adversely. We will also improve the conditions of government schools and dispensaries in Goa, just like we did in Delhi,” the chief minister of the national capital said.
 
 Kejriwal also took a dig at leader of the   (MGP),   alias Sudin, stating that his only ambition is to become the chief minister. “Don’t fall into a deeper trouble by voting for Dhavalikar as he has shared power with both Congress and BJP. His only ambition is to be the chief minister,” Kejriwal said.
 
 The national convener also alleged that the BJP government is not taking any action against the casinos as it is being funded by them and vowed to remove them from the state.
 
 “Casinos are earning Rs 4,000 crore a year, but giving Rs 200 crore to the state. We will remove them as they are involved in all sorts of illicit activities like drugs, gambling and prostitution,” he alleged.
 
 Addressing the crowd at Mapusa, which has a lot of trader population, Kejriwal said that his government in Delhi banished the raid culture which helped in increasing the tax revenue.
 
 “We will introduce similar measures here in Goa,” he said. AAP’s chief ministerial candidate  , earlier, said that while they have already announced 36 candidates, other parties are running from Goa to Delhi to lobby for tickets.
 
 “We have seen these same MLAs, while we were growing. They have become grandparents now. We need to throw these people out now,” Gomes said. 
 
