CHENNAI: An endowment award carrying a cash prize of Rs10 lakh instituted by former chief minister   in his name has not been awarded by Central Institute of Classical Tamil ( ) since 2010.

 This, observers say, is due to the rivalry between AIADMK, which has been in government in the state since 2011, and the DMK.
 
 But that may change, with CICT calling, all at once, for nominations for the award for 2011 till 2016.
 
 CICT, an autonomous institute that functions under the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD), has the chief minister of Tamil Nadu as the exofficio chairman.
 
 The `Kalaignar M   Award', meant to be given for `the best contribution to classical Tamil studies by a researcher or a research institution' in the fields of archaeology, epigraphy, ancient grammar and other related fields, was launched after the DMK patriarch set aside Rs1 crore from his own funds for the purpose.
 
 The first ever recipient of the prestigious honour, when the DMK was in government in 2010, was Asko Parpola, the renowned Indologist from  .
 
 Apart from the cash prize, the awardee is given a bronze replica of Karunanidhi on June 3, the DMK leader's birthday. The J Jayalalithaa-led AIADMK won the assembly election in 2011and assumed office and since then the award has not been given.
 
 Three months ago, CICT jointly called for nominations for the award for 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016.Incidentally, Edappadi K Palaniswami was the first chief minister from AIADMK who chaired a meeting at the institute in July .
 
 The CICT website shows that unlike this endowment award, the institute's other honours - the Tolkappiyar, Kural Peedam and Young scholar awards -have been given away every year from 2005-06 till 2013-14.
 
 CICT governing board vice-chairman P   said the government had ne ither said no nor yes to the award's presentation. “There was no valid reason for not giving the awards, “ he said.
 
 Former   and Tamil intellectual D Ravikumar, who was on one of the committees of the institute, said the political rivalry between the DMK and AIADMK was not the only reason. The scholars involved in the administration of the institute should also be held responsible, he said.
 
 “Those running the institute were not politicians, yet when the party in power changed, they [the scholars at the institute] turned opportunistic and declined to call for nominations under the impression that they would offend Jayalalithaa, “ Ravikumar said. He said everyone in the institute was appointed by the MHRD and yet the administrators did not do their duty .
 
 Prakasam said CICT received many nominations and would constitute a selection committee to scrutinise the applications and announce the awards soon.
 
