NEW DELHI: Union transport minister   will   on Wednesday various projects planned to decongest the capital. The meeting will be attended by all seven Delhi MPs, LG Anil Baijal and senior officials of the Delhi government,   (NHAI) of India and other agencies.

 Besides six-seven PWD projects, issues related to water resources and cleaning of the Yamuna are also likely to be discussed. 
 
 Several road projects in Delhi have been struck due to various issues such as multiplicity of authority, lack of coordination among state governments, delay in getting necessary permissions and land rows, said sources. Baijal held a meeting on Monday to discuss the status of similar proposed and ongoing projects. 
 
 Kalind Kunj bypass, East-West Corridor, Mehrauli-Badarpur corridor and NH-2 (Mathura Road improvement plan) are some of the projects that the public works department (PWD) will bring up for discussion. “These projects are crucial for decongesting the city, but are stuck mainly due to delay in getting necessary permissions from various agencies,” said an official.
 
 East Delhi MP Maheish Girri had recently written to   about two projects crucial for his constituency — Kalindi Kunj bypass and East-West Corridor. He had also met UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to push the Kalindi Kunj project. “I’ll also propose construction of a road or elevated corridor parallel to Vikas Marg,” said Girri.
 
 Though Delhi government officials have had several meetings with their UP counterparts on the 13.4km-long Kalindi Kunj bypass, PWD officials said, the in-principle approval came this January. Initiated in 2002, PWD started working on it in 2003, but the project ran into several hurdles due to its initial alignment (which was close to the Okhla bird sanctuary) and later due to a land dispute with the UP government. The work was stopped in 2007. The bypass will take the load off Mathura Road, decongest Ashram Chowk and provide another access to Faridabad from south and east Delhi, and Noida. 
 
 East-West Corridor also has alignment issues as large portions will be constructed on railway land. PWD, which had presented the revised plan before the LG in July, said it was waiting for Northern Railway’s approval.
 
 Some other projects — Mehrauli-Badarpur corridor, the direct link between NH-24 and Lodhi Road — are stuck as no construction is permitted within 100 metres of a protected monument. “Land acquisition has also become difficult after the new Act came into force in 2013. Barapullah Phase-III will miss its 2017 deadline because of two privately owned land pockets,” said an official.
 
 Delhi Development Authority’s (DDA) Urban Extension Road-II is also on the agenda. While DDA has constructed some parts of the 79km-long road, also referred to as third Ring Road, it has been decided to hand over the project to NHAI.
 
 
