BENGALURU: The government on Wednesday applied further pressure on   (RGUHS) to transfer Rs 580 crore for construction of a   by issuing a government order. This, even as the vice-chancellor has been saying it cannot be done without approval of the varsity's syndicate and senate.

 Under pressure, M K Ramesh, the acting VC, took the matter to  , who has written to the varsity on Thursday, asking it to maintain status quo until further instructions.
 
 As reported by TOI on Wednesday, the government has been pressurizing Ramesh to immediately transfer the money -Rs 200 crore to the PWD department and the remaining into an escrow account for the construction of the campus and health city in Ramanagara, where the government wants RGUHS to shift. Back-to-back meetings show no result Sources in RGUHS said two back-to-back meetings of the finance committee on Tuesday and Wednesday did not come to any decision. “In fact, the meeting on Wednesday saw some arguments following which the VC went to meet the governor,“ one source said.
 
 Ramesh, while not discussing the arguments, confirmed his meeting with Vala on Wednesday. “The government had sent two letters after I communicated with them that the money cannot be transferred without the approval of the syndicate and senate. Yesterday (Wednesday), a government order was issued, forcing me to do the same. I had no choice but to escalate the matter and place the order before the syndicatesenate at the next meeting,“ he said.
 
 In his letter to RGUHS, Vala, who is also the university chancellor, said: “Pending consideration of the clarification on the issue, let the universityvice-chancellor maintain status quo.“ Opposition from syndicate, senate It is learnt that the governor has referred the matter to his legal team and that he would issue a more elaborate instruction after he receives their opinion.
 
 Members of the   and the senate, two apex bodies of the university, however, said the government's move is ill-conceived.
 
 “There is no proper planning. They want it to look like Vidhana Soudha, and there has been no consultation with the university as to how its facility must look, or for that matter, what it should have. The syndicate and the senate both have government representatives, I cannot understand why they do not want to discuss the is sue so that there is some clarity. How can the university function after giving away most of the money it has,“ asked Pradeep PR, member of the  .
 
 Another member of the senate echoing Pradeep's views said the move is illconceived and that the senate and the syndicate will oppose this. “We have been debating on this and even given our representations that the money in the corpus must be used for the welfare of the students, and not in construction of buildings that are not immediately needed.If the government wants us to shift to Ramanagara we will, but it cannot use all the money. I don't want to go on record as one member who had spoken out against this has already got a threat call,“ the senate member said.
 
 
 
 
 The university has called for an emergency meeting of the syndicate and the senate on October 6 to specifically discuss this matter, but members indicated that the opposition would continue. “Originally, the health city was to be funded by the government. They have backtracked now and are forcing us to bear the cost, which is not viable. We are not going against the government here, but the university cannot be funding for such an unpractical plan,“ said Prashanth, member of the syndicate.
 
