Margao: Residents of Pedda in the coastal village of Varca, Salcete, have commenced a campaign protesting against Varca panchayat’s decision to cut 25-30 trees to construct a footpath/jogging track. This campaign that commenced on April 29 spearheaded by a few expatriate Goans like Kuwait-based Raymond Pereira and Dubai-based Kinsley Rodrigues has received considerable support from many nature-loving Goans as well as from town and country planning (TCP) minister Vijai Sardesai, one of the protestors Teo Pereira told STOI. Pereira, along with Johnson Rodrigues, Jovita Rodrigues, Rita Vaz, Franskin Lobo, Pascoal Pereira, Oliver Pereira, Salvador Pereira, Gabriel Pereira, James Fernandes and others have denounced the Varca panchayat’s move to chop down these well-maintained trees that provide shade during the present scorching summer heat as well as shelter from the forthcoming monsoon.  Pereira said, “The road has already been widened by three metres on one side and now these trees are being sought to be cut to construct a footpath or jogging track on the other side of the road. When we questioned the sarpanch, she claimed that the trees would be replanted but when we questioned the logic of hacking down grown trees and then planting saplings that will take over 15 years to grow, she had no proper reply. TCP minister Sardessai was very supportive of our protests and suggested that we call the town planner S T Putturaju. ” Jovita said, “Our demand is that this footpath or jogging track be built by preserving the trees, else we do not want this track or footpath since these trees provide shade on this one kilometer stretch of road that is surrounded by fields.” Johnson further alleged, “Varca panchayat has not obtained legal sanction from the forest department to cut these trees.” When contacted, Varca sarpanch Tercy Fernandes stated, “Permission was taken for road widening on both sides of the road in 2009-10 by the earlier ruling body by the present deputy sarpanch and ward panch Luiza Rodrigues, who had taken the decision then. The land had been acquired but the work only commenced now. It is a pending project with the work now in progress.” A meeting has been scheduled on Sunday (today) at 10.30am to discuss this issue.”