Outside the window of  's room in Ladour, Mussoorie, the wind is especially persistent, like a baby howling to be let in. "It sometimes howls throughout the night. Often, it has given me inspiration for a ghost story or two," says the iconic writer, known as much for his children and nature-inspired stories as for his tales of hill station ghosts.

  On his 83rd  , Bond is in a reflective mood as he has finished work on his autobiography that is due to be released in a few months' time. The title of the book, he says, is inspired by a fox. Why a fox, of all animals? "It's not because I particularly resemble a fox," says the writer with his characteristic self-depreciating humour. "It's just that I got the idea for the book's title "Lone Fox Dancing" from a poem that I wrote some years ago. The poem popped up in my mind while I was thinking of writing my life story since it talks about a fox which through its dance on a moonlit night, is expressing its joy and individuality. I found that apt for my life's description since through my writings, I have been expressing my individuality and joy too."
 
  
  
  
 
 Much of Bond's work has been autobiographical in nature. What would the autobiography offer that would be additional? "I have tried to write about the things I might have omitted before," he says. "I look at it as a record of my writing life -- which might be useful for other young writers -- as well as a record of my personal life -- my childhood in Jamnagar, Dehradun, schooling in Shimla; London and the Channel Islands where I spent a few years as a young man, and the 50 years or so that I have spent in Mussoorie."
 
  And would he consider this as his last book? "Looking back, I feel that I can write a second autobiography putting in all the things that I have left out in this one," says the writer who has penned over 150 books in a career spanning over 60 years. And as an afterthought, he adds with a chuckle, as the wind continues to howl outside his window, "If I run out of ideas involving people and animals, I can always turn to ghosts."
 
 
