MUMBAI: Season five of the   (HIL) gets underway at the MHA Stadium here on Saturday with hosts   taking on  . And, given the purple patch the national sport is enjoying, the timing of the 37-day long competition could not have been more opportune.

 The year gone by saw India reclaim considerable ground on the pitch and fans were in for a treat especially towards the end of the year with the men's U-21 squad reigning supreme at the Junior World Cup in Lucknow. Prior to that, a second-place finish at the Champions Trophy followed by a modest showing at the Rio Olympics reignited the passion that people have for the sport here.
 
 These results were possible in no small measure to the contribution that HIL has made to the progress of   in India in the preceding four seasons. “India won the Junior World Cup recently and I believe one of the biggest reasons behind that, apart from the hard work put in by the players and coaches, was the exposure that your boys are getting in the HIL,” reckoned Ashley Jackson, one of the world's best midfielders. The Englishman will be playing the league for the fifth straight year and like previous seasons, will be pivotal to Ranchi Rays' hopes.
 
 Like last year, six teams will be competing for top honours, and given the composition of the squads, the field looks wide open. Punjab Warriors, however, enjoy an edge, since they have been the most consistent side in the competition over the past three seasons. Under Australian great Barry Dancer's watch, they triumphed last season and finished runners-up in 2014 and 2015. They have a huge Aussie presence in the squad, and the Warriors will again look up to the likes of Mark Knowles, Simon Orchard, Robert van der Horst, Sardar Singh and SV Sunil to guide their ship.
 
 Ranchi Rays have been the other stand-out team of the league, going on to triumph in 2015, and in the inaugural edition in their previous avatar of Ranchi Rhinos in 2013.This time, too, they look pretty strong with the presence of Jackson, German forward Christopher Ruhr, Manpreet Singh and Birendra Lakra. They surprised everyone at the auctions in November, shelling out a whopping $99,000 for experienced midfielder Gurbaj Singh, who has had a few run-ins with the establishment in the past couple of years. They also spent $75,000 on Ruhr so their performances will be tracked closely.
 
 “I think every team is capable of going the distance this season. They have done a lot of homework trying to get balanced teams, and I feel they have succeeded to a great extent,” said Harendra Singh, coach of the Rays.
 
 Another thing that will be of interest to fans is the performance of the junior India players. Raising their game to the next level is definitely going to be challenging, but Harendra, who coached the team to victory at the Junior World Cup is confident that they will leave an imprint. “Not only the World Cup-winning squad, I feel, all the 33 junior players who were part of the camp in the run up to the World Cup will get opportunities to showcase their talent. The HIL provides them a great opportunity to show their ability,” he said.
 
 Kalinga Lancers finished runner-up last season and will be expecting to go one better this time. Aussie forward Glenn Turner was at the peak of his powers scoring nine goals, and he will be eyeing a similar show this time. They have some outstanding players in their line-up including German midfielder Moritz Fuerste and Indian striker SK Uthappa.
 
 2014 champions Delhi Waveriders finished third last season and the Cedric D'Souza coached side will be led by ace dragflicker Rupinder Pal Singh this time. Rupinder takes charge from New Zealand's Simon Child, who has been named the vice-captain. Dabang Mumbai, meanwhile, have achieved little of note in the competition over the years, but they looked promising under Australian coach Jay Stacy in 2016.The side that will be captained by striker Florian Fuchs missed the semis berth by a whisker, and will be hoping to at least make the last four this time.
 
