NAGPUR: Animal activists are seething over the shocking pictures of alleged cruelty on strays in   that are going viral on a social media platform since the last few weeks. The pictures, posted by animal lovers, show bleeding dogs being dragged on the road with metal hooks inserted in the neck region. Locals claimed many dog deaths are going unreported.

 In a recent Facebook post, a resident of Akola uploaded such photographs and claimed that he witnessed 40 dogs being taken away in a cruel fashion. “The dogs are lured with something to eat. Then, a bamboo stick that has a wire attached to one end is hooked on to their jaws and they are dragged on road. The legs of the dogs are tied and they are thrown into the vans,” the post stated.
 
 While this local claimed that Akola municipal corporation was behind the act of which “the commissioner was aware”, Akola municipal commissioner Ajay Lahane denied any involvement.
 
 Nagpur-based NGO Save Speechless Organisation (SSO) has intervened and filed a complaint with Lahane. “Till now, I had not received any complaint from Akola regarding this cruelty on strays. But I will raise an inquiry into the episode,” Lahane told TOI.
 
 Some residents of Akola, on the condition of anonymity, confirmed the “barbaric acts”, alleging that mass culling of strays was also taking place. “Since the last one-and-a-half months, I have been seeing bodies of dogs lying in some lanes. It is difficult to say who is killing them. People are not raising a voice as they are facing trouble from stray dogs,” said a resident.
 
 Another resident claimed that around 400 dogs have been culled till now. According to him, the pig breeders were on a killing spree. “Post beef ban, the demand for pork has increased, and so has the population of pigs in Akola. As the stray dogs would attack the piglets, the owners are deliberately killing them,” he added.
 
 A housewife said some dogs in her area were poisoned to death. “As the pig owners are anti-social elements, most of us are scared to complain,” she added.
 
 SSO founder Smita Mire said, “Animal lovers in Akola are complaining about catching of dogs using a hook as well as mass culling. Right now, there is no clarity.” 
 
 She added that as per the complaints, Akola municipal corporation is catching the dogs and releasing them in forest areas outside the city limits. “If the corporation fails to take action, we will lodge a first information report,” she said. 
 
 Mire was informed by civic officials that Akola neither has an NGO nor an animal shelter. “The animal birth control programme is not being implemented. Indian laws do not permit stray dogs to be dumped, displaced or cruelty to be inflicted upon them,” she said.
 
 
