KOLKATA: Senior state bureaucrats are likely to be trained on public policy and governance at   from this year. The capsule course for   officials was being held at O P Jindal School of Government & Public Policy in Sonepat, Haryana, for the past few years.

 The move would save the government close to Rs 50 lakh. While the total cost of the course at Presidency would range between Rs 18 lakh and Rs 21 lakh depending on whether the programme is conducted at the new Kurseong campus or Kolkata, the government was shelling out Rs 70 lakh every year for the training at the Jindal School.
 
 “The School of Public Policy at the new Presidency campus in Kurseong plans to organize training programme for executives,” a senior government official said. “If the proposal gets a nod, it will be held for six days in the second half of May. The first five days will comprise classroom lectures (five lectures daily of an hour each). The final day is reserved for visit to institutions.”
 
 Some of the key themes to be covered in the course will be: Economics of Public Policy, Policy Evaluation, Leadership, Public Policy Management and Startup and Entrepreneurship ecosystem.
 
 “In policy evaluation, focus will be on a broad range of research techniques including qualitative and quantitative analysis, data-based decision-making in policy and policy evaluations, data mining and basic statistics, benefit estimation and cost benefit analysis. The leadership curriculum will focus on the introduction to critical theories and analytical tools in the disciplines of public management and leadership,” said Pulak Ghosh, coordinator of the course and Infosys chair professor at Presidency University.
 
 Presidency V-C Anuradha Lohia said the institution was looking to expand the ambit and offer quality higher education in all relevant fields in its 200th year. “Emerging sectors like startup and entrepreneurship will be mentioned in the course. Introduction to existing knowledge on startups and developing the cognitive shift from managerial perspective to entrepreneurial outlook will be the focus. Another area of teaching is Public Policy Management where the participants will be taught the dynamics of public policy with focus on organisational theory.”
 
 The university has also proposed an illustrative list of the possible lectures. The theme of the lectures and the thrust of the course will be determined as per the requirement of the West Bengal government.
 
 
