PUNE: A   on how to survive in an   yet fully self-sufficient space colony for 10,000 individuals by city twins  , both 17 years, has won the top prize at the  's (NSS)   2017 recently.

 The twins, Class XII students of PMC’s Rajiv Gandhi Academy of e-Learning School and Junior College of Science, submitted a 107-page paper titled “Project Antralsrushti” describing all the aspects of life aboard the space colony settlement. 
 
 Tanmay said, “We had to make 3D models, illustrations and explain with examples the task given as part of the project. We also described various operations to be carried out on board the settlement and the socio-economic factors. The precise estimated cost budget and construction schedule was also covered in the report. In short, the project described how we could create a whole new world and make it exist indefinitely in order to protect human species and also for research purposes.”
 
 The Samak brothers accomplished this task without any professional guidance and took about six months to complete the project. Earlier, they presented this paper at National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) Ames Research Center. After the Nasa presentation, their paper was recommended for the NSS competition at the conference.
 
 Chinmay said, “We presented a formal poster at the ISDC 2017 that was displayed throughout the conference and was visible to all the attendees. Various key personalities, including Al Globus (Hhad judge), Dave Dressler (ISDC 2016 chairperson), Christine Nobbe (ISDC 2017 chairperson), among others, appreciated the project.”
 
 We tried to make every element in the paper as accurate as possible with the help of maths. In order to tackle radiation at the settlement, we proposed an ejection radiator panel with optical solar reflectors. We calculated the megawatt power of heat that this solar power could reject with the help of mathematics solutions."
 
 The brothers have been participating and winning robotics competitions and few months back while they were surfing for a robotics contest, they came across the Nasa page where they read more about the space settlement contest. “We found it very interesting and applied,” they said.
 
 The twins will join SRM University in Chennai soon to pursue engineering in mechatronics (technology combining electronics and mechanical engineering).
 
