MUMBAI:   spent sleepless nights ahead of the auctions for the fifth season of   that took place in May this year. The 19-year-old was in the shortlist of youngsters whose fate would be decided by the 12 teams that were going to feature in the league beginning late July.

 He wondered if talent scouts of these teams had noticed and found him good enough to bid for him at the auctions.And, Singh was enormously relieved when he got a call-up from  . “I was thrilled. It was indeed a dream come true for me,” Singh, who is amongst the top young performers this season, told TOI.
 
 The defender, who mans the right cover region for the former champions, has garnered 49 tackle points in 18 matches, and has played a vital role in keeping U Mumba in the race for a play-offs berth. Like Singh, there are a couple of other young guns, who have not only done well, but also outshone some of their more illustrious counterparts.
 
 Vishal Bhardwaj, a defender with the   and raider   representing   are cases in point. While Bhardwaj, 20, who had the experience of playing all of two PKL games prior to this season, leads the tackle charts with 62 points, Sachin, an 18year-old, has notched up 111raid points in 17 matches to stand eighth in the raids points table.
 
 Bhardwaj, in fact has been the most impressive of the lot considering the quality of defenders showcasing their skills in the league this year.He is provisionally ahead of the likes of the experienced Surender Nada (61pts in 16 games), Surjeet Singh (57 pts in 19 games) and the Iranian Abozar Mohajer Mighani (51 pts in 17 games).
 
 What's even more interesting is that Bhardwaj was an excellent raider with the junior Indian team till last year, but had to give up that posi tion to break into the playing seven. “Our coach told me that I needed to play in defence as we already had some very good raiders in the team. So I took up the challenge,” Bhardwaj told TOI.
 
 And as luck would have it, both Bhardwaj and Singh hail from the same village ­ Dehlan in Himachal Pradesh's Una district. “We have played all our kabaddi together and are very good friends,” said Bhardwaj. So, is he surprised that both he and Singh have performed commendably over the past two months?
 “Well, not at all. We aimed to do well for our respective teams after all the hard work we have put in over the years. I am happy that it's paying off now,” said Bhardwaj.
 
 The wiry Sachin, hailing from Jhunjhunu district's Badbar village in Rajasthan, has given top defenders a run for their money and has been responsible for Gujarat's impressive show. “I was in awe of the players who played in the Pro Kabaddi League, so I did not have too much expectations from myself. I only wanted to do well, and am happy to have contributed to the team's cause,” he said.
 
 
