THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Speaker   and chief minister   criticised the President and the governor for not providing assent to many of the bills that have been passed by the legislative assembly. They said such actions are an infringement into people's aspirations.

 Speaking at the inaugural session of the seminar series organised by the legislature secretariat as part of the diamond jubilee celebrations of the state legislative assembly , the speaker went a step ahead to criticise the judiciary saying that instead of striking down some of the legislations citing that they violate the  , the courts should have helped to rectify them.Meanwhile, opposition leader   dissociated with the speaker's comments and said that judiciary is supposed to check whether the legislature is overstepping its limits.
 
 “The legislature reflects the will of the people and the laws are being made by the legislatures. The Constitution mandates that the bill should get the assent of the President or the governor. It is unfortunate that at least nine legislations passed by the state assembly are be ing delayed by the President or the governor without giving the assent, citing illogical reasons. The foremost among these is the legislation passed for providing compensation to those who are being subjected to water exploitation in Plachimada,“ he said.
 
 He said that there also needs to be an examination about such legislations.Further, he said that most of the time, after the legislation process is completed after availing the assent of the President or the governor, the acts are frozen by the courts citing that such acts violate the principles of the Constitution.
 
 “The legislative assembly has also become a graveyard of legislations that have been struck down by the court in the name of incongruity with the Constitution. The foremost one among these is the act with regards to the self-financing institutions. Had the court helped to modify the Act instead of striking it down, the ongoing protest by the students in the self-financing colleges could have been avoided,“ he said.
 
 Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan also cited the   that is still awaiting the assent of the President.“There are several similar legislations that are awaiting the President's assent.It is very unfortunate that they are neither given assent nor returned. Similar is the bill passed for setting up the Kerala maritime board. That bill is also pending before the President,“ Pinarayi said.
 
