JODHPUR: The Bishnoi community has demanded the state government to order a judicial inquiry into the alleged weak prosecution which according to them led to acquittal of   in the Arms Act case by the trial court.

 They submitted a memorandum to chief minister Vasundhara Raje on Wednesday. Holding weak arguments by the prosecution in the court against Khan, they demanded a probe into it, a proper protection mechanism for the wildlife and their protectors be put in place, check on the growing incidents of poaching and strict action against the poachers.
 
 Keeping this in mind, they have also demanded appointment of the prosecution counsels in the court with expertise or specialization in the Wildlife Act to argue on the cases of wildlife only.
 
 State president of the Bishnoi Tiger Force, Rampal Bhawad said that the entire wildlife protection committee was pained at the way Khan has been acquitted in three cases pertaining to poaching in succession.
 
 “All this was attributed to the weak arguments by the prosecution in the court despite adequate evidences and witnesses against Khan in all the cases,” said Bhawad.
 
 “It was surprising to see in the case under Arms Act that after 18 years of exercise, the court ruled that the case did not belong to this court as the charges, Khan was framed in, were not the charges according to the case,” he said.
 
 Expressing gratitude to the government for filing Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court against Khan’s acquittal in two cases of poaching by the high court, they have appealed to the government to make sure that the prosecution counsels argue in the Supreme Court with grit and determination.
 
 The community had announced a demonstration on January 25 after the acquittal of Khan from the charges under Arms Act on January 18 by the court to coincide with the presence of chief minister Vasundhara Raje in Jodhpur. Besides various community leaders, Chairman of the State Seed Corporation S SI Khetasar and Phalodi MLA P R Bishnoi also addressed the gathering.
 
 The community members and wildlife activists from the district started assembling at the Bishnoi Dharmshala from the morning itself to register their protest in the matter of the acquittal of Khan and the recent attack on one Parbat Singh by some poachers in Nagaur district on January 20 when he challenged them.
 
 
