Mumbai: A year and a half after an IAS aspirant was booked on New Year’s Day for allegedly assaulting a police constable and calling him a ‘ghati’, the Supreme Court quashed criminal proceedings against the youth, saying he had been made a scapegoat. 

 “It is clear from the facts that no offence has been committed, much less an offence of assault against a public official in the course of duty,’’ a division bench of Justices Rohinton Nariman and Sanjay Kaul said on July 6.
 
 The SC’s verdict came on a special leave petition filed by Andheri resident Badri Iyer (26) challenging the Bombay high court’s refusal to quash the first information report filed by Colaba police. “We are afraid that the appellant (Badri) has been made a scapegoat for no fault of his, and we find that, in point of fact, a false case has been registered against him,’’ the bench observed in its order.
 
 The charges against Badri include voluntarily causing hurt to deter a public servant from his duty and intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace. The   judges noted, “It seems that in a very high-handed manner the appellant (Badri) and his lady friend were taken to the police station and kept there, after which the FIR was lodged by the policeman, alleging assault against a public servant.”
 
 Badri, a chartered accountancy student, had been to a Colaba club with a friend, a CA. His petition said they were waiting for a taxi around 1.45am, when some policemen arrived and told them to leave. 
 
 Realising they were harmless, they left. But soon an allegedly drunk plainclothes constable questioned them and taunted them about the friend’s clothes and for staying out late. This led to an argument and the constable slapped and abused Badri.
 
 The constable claimed Badri called him a ‘ghati’. Badri denied the allegation, saying he only said, “We are decent people and not ghatis (rustic).” His petition said more policemen joined in slapping him, and his glasses fell off and his shirt tore. Badri was dragged to the police station, kept in a lock-up and produced at noon before a magistrate, when he was released on bail.
 
 On February 23, 2016, while declining   , the HC judges (Justices Ranjit More and V L Achliya) had remarked that the word “ghati” can be abusive to some people. The HC had said the FIR discloses a cognizable offence, its veracity cannot be adjudged at this stage and that the investigation was preliminary.
 
 Before the SC, Badri’s advocate, Amit Sharma, produced a transcript of the telephonic conversation between Badri and constable who registered the FIR. The transcript revealed that the policeman admitted that “the complaint was made at the behest of his superior”. He also admitted that he knew nothing of the facts which transpired on the morning of January 1, 2016. The SC termed the transcript as “very interesting” while setting aside the HC order.
 
