KANPUR: Last winter, when   led the annihilation of South Africa in a home Test series, the win was marred by accusations of the home team ordering doctored pitches. This time, Kohli is actually delighted the much-advocated 'home advantage' is not being talked about.

 “As soon as we won the ODI series, I was delighted to see the Kolkata pitch and I thought it was more of a preparation for the Champions Trophy in England,” Kohli gleefully announced after the match on Thursday. “My head's already swinging in that direction,” he then declared. Kohli is here for the long haul and a minor hiccup en route his first major tournament isn't going to deter him.
 
 This is a contrasting statement to the ones he has been making since returning from England and Australia in 2011-12. 'What's wrong in home advantage' has suddenly been replaced by a thought: “It's not about getting the conditions we want.” 
 
 Kohli explained: “I might as well get in to some practice, and what better way than to have an international game to get a simulation of what we are going to get there in England? Not at all bothered by the last two pitches.”
 
 However, the chinks in the middle order have started appearing on challenging tracks, and Kohli said, “We played loose shots but it was more about the England bowlers bowling better than us.”
 
 Kohli isn't willing to give up on opening the batting in T20s either. “Me opening the batting gives more balance to the team. Raina can come in at No. 3 where he is more dangerous. Till Rohit isn't there, I will any day step up and open the batting.”
 
 Facing more of the new ball will only sharpen his skills when it comes to handling the moving ball in England, where he has a score to settle, having performed poorly there in the past. He seems up for the challenge.
 
 
 
 
 Leggie Amit Mishra has always performed in the opportunities he has got formed in the opportunities he has got in the shorter formats. In fact, in India's last T20I against West Indies in Florida, he picked up three wickets in a run fest. His exclusion, thus, has always been a matter of curiosity.
 
 “Mishra played in the last T20I because he travelled with us from West Indies and we didn't have time. But he has done well for us. He does well in the IPL. He did well in the World T20 in 2014.He is a guy with variations and is useful on a bare pitch. It won't be a surprise if he features in the next couple of games given the kind of surfaces we play on,” Kohli said, offering a hint why Mishra warms the benches so often.
 
