SECUNDERABAD: In a scare for Secunderabad Cantonment residents, and people using roads here, 15 localities in the area have been identified as being 'accident prone'. 

 These roads see a high frequency of road accidents, many of which end up in fatalities.
 
 The roads in these localities are narrow and more crucially, officials have neglected 'road engineering' while laying roads. 
 
 This oversight has led to frequent road accidents, including on arterial roads.
 
 The Secunderabad Cantonment has two major roads passing through it: the National Highway 44 and State Highway 1 (Rajiv Rahdari). Apart from these arterial roads, the   maintains about 300 small roads and streets.
 
 Ironically, portions of roads falling under the purview of the defence ministry are maintained well. In fact, they are black topped periodically .But the roads under the purview of the SCB are badly maintained. 
 
 Among the reasons for this neglect is the fight between the   (LMA) and the Secunderabad Cantonment Board, which has led to a delay in repairs of important roads and junctions. Encroachments and location of religious places have also affected the SCB's plans to widen roads.
 
 In an example of a tricky situation, to widen the Bowenpally Crossroads, about three square yards of land belonging to a graveyard is needed.But the SCB could not convince the management committee of the graveyard.
 
  As a result, the road has become narrow leading to frequent mishaps. Another major bottleneck is a graveyard near to Tadbund Crossroads. In 2016, at least five deaths occurred on this stretch. 
 
 These road accidents were related to congestion. The Tabdund Crossroads comes under National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). Though modifications like increasing the height of the road median have been done, it has not solved the problem. On the other side, a piece of land is required for widening, but defence authorities are not willing to part with land, it is alleged.
 
 The   is another accident prone area in   mulgherry. Here, a  's 133 KV tower, occupying a fourth of the area, has become a bottleneck. “Though accidents occur, there is no efforts to widen the road. Luckily , there have been no casualties. But cases of vehicles hitting one another are reported frequently.
 
  About 60sqft LIC land is required for widening the junction. A panel from LIC head office inspected the site and responded positively ,“ Inspector, Traffic, Trimulgherry, R Rajeswara Rao, told TOI. To widen the road, the SCB needs to acquire defence land at Hanuman Temple.
 
 A narrow stretch at Military Hospital junction has the most number of accidents in Secunderabad Cantt. 
 
 Thousands of vehicles coming from AS Rao Nagar, Safilguda, Neredmet, Malkajgiri and adjoining areas pass through this stretch. 
 
 The existing road has a width of 30feet. 
 
 Poor street lighting, lack of road dividers and congestion result in accidents. Every year, four to five persons die here.
 
 “We are corresponding with SCB authorities. We have sought widening of the road and proper lighting and signage. But there has been no response,“ said Station House Officer, Trimulgherry, R Satyanarayana Raju.
 
