PATNA: Financial year 2016-17 was remarkable in the field of infrastructure and passenger amenities, railways claims.

 According to   (ECR) CPRO A K Rajak, railways introduced 87 new trains and extended the routes of about 51 mail and express trains during 2016-2017 at country level while frequencies of five long-distance trains were increased to cope with passengers’ rush. Railways also extended the routes of Hamsafar, Antodaya, DEMU and MEMU trains in different zones, including ECR, he said.
 
 Rajak said railways has so far replaced 34 pairs of conventional rakes by special LHB coaches to provide riding comforts to the passengers. Rakes of three pairs of passenger trains were replaced by special LHB coaches in the ECR. About 43,420 extra berths were provided across the country during this period by attaching extra coaches and running special trains during festivals and summer season, he said, adding that 67 lifts and escalators were installed at major stations in the country for the convenience of passengers.
 
 Railways provided Wi-Fi connectivity at 100 stations across the country for the benefit of passengers to track the exact location of trains.  , Gaya and Mughalsarai were other major stations under ECR where Wi-Fi connectivity was provided during the fiscal. About 34,000 biotoilets were provided in the superfast trains, including 12 to 14 pairs of passenger trains running under the ECR, he said.
 
 On-board house keeping services (OBHS) were made available in about 157 passenger trains last year only while the total number of 830 passenger trains have been brought under OBHS scheme so far. Under this scheme, railways is providing cleanliness services on running trains from originating to terminating stations, the CPRO said, adding that railways has installed LED lights and solar energy plants at about 1,313 stations, including Patna Junction, to save energy consumption.
 
 Keeping in view the difficulties faced by physically challenged passengers, railways has provided more amenities to them at all major stations. Ramps and special toilets were made for them at most of the big stations, including Patna Junction and   under Danapur division of ECR, Rajak said.
 
 
