NEW DELHI: The government is mooting significant changes to the Coastal Regulation Zone notification (CRZ), file inspections under RTI by members of an NGO, Centre for Policy Research ( ), has revealed. One of the major changes in the draft Marine and Coastal Regulation Zone notification 2017 is to allow “temporary tourism facilities“ in the ecologically sensitive areas as defined under coastal regulation zone 1.

 CRZ 1 is mainly areas that are eco-sensitive, have geomorphological features such as mangroves, coral reefs, sand dunes, turtle nesting grounds, horse shoe crab habitats and others. The draft states that “temporary tourism facilities such as walkways on stilts, rain shelters, public toilets, drinking water facilities, sitting or resting places and the like as part of eco-tourism plan without disturbing the habitat shall be recommended...“ Whereas, no new constructions were allowed in CRZ 1 in the Coastal Zone Regulation notification 2001 except projects related to department of atomic energy , weather radar for monitoring of cyclones by IMD and other essential activities. There was no mention of tourism facilities.
 
 CPR had filed three RTIs, in an earlier RTI, the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) had shared copies of stakeholder meetings on Marine and Coastal Zone Regulation Zone notification.   of CPR and Namati Environment Justice Program got the draft notification 2017 after she was allowed to inspect files at MoEFCC. Another important change proposed in the draft is that development in urban areas (CRZ II or areas near the shoreline) are to be regu lated as per local laws and “the state governments shall prepare marine coastal zone management plans based on land use or regional plans incorporating adequate environmental safeguards.“ CRZ Notification 2011allows development in CRZ II areas as per the town and country planning norms of 1991.
 
 “The proposed changes look to opening up restricted areas on the coast for tourism and other constructions. This can increase the ecological vulnerability of coastal areas which have been facing pressures due to land use change, mangrove destruction associated sea erosion,“ said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher and director at Namati Environment Justice Program.
 
 Under the draft notification, state and union territories have been tasked to prepare coastal tourism plans. “In view of the tremendous potential for beach and island tourism the coastal states shall prepare tourism development plans in accordance with guidelines..,“ the draft states.
 
 Housing and infrastructure for local people will be allowed after 50 metres from the High Tide Line in rural areas or CRZ III. The CRZ Notification, 2011 permits houses for coastal communities only after first 100 metres. The MoEFCC had earlier disclosed “Report of the   to Review the Issues relating to the Coastal Regulation Zone, 2011“ to CPR under RTI nearly 16 months after CPR had sought it. It was released to them after the   (CIC) had ordered the ministry to release it. The report had revealed that some consultations were carried out with some state governments on changes to be made to the notification but no consultations were carried with coastal communities, fishing unions or private parties as per the information disclosed in the report.
 
