NEW DELHI: The online registration for admission to DU colleges, which was to start at 5pm on Monday, was delayed by over an hour due to some last-minute glitches. Complaints were received from many applicants, saying they were either not able to open the form link or the link was not allowing them to fill the form completely.

 University officials said at least 5,500 registrations had been made in the first hour of opening of the admission link. Some students also complained that the portal was not “loading” on their phones and they were facing slow internet connectivity. 
 
 University officials said they were trying to remove the glitches that riddled the online process last year. They said students from across the country had been roped in to log on to the system simultaneously, to check the load the servers can take and do the needful to keep the link working.
 
 The university kicked off its admission process with its ‘Open Day’ on Monday. Many parents were concerned about the ways in which the “best of four” will be calculated by the university for eligibility to colleges and courses and asked questions about the subjects, which will be given weightage in the final calculation. 
 
 They were people who were anxious that the admission process had started even before the Class XII results were declared. DU officials said that all information can be filled gradually in the form, as an when results are declared and cut-offs are released. “Parents have until June 12 to finish their forms. You need not complete everything in one day. The form will remain editable until June 12,” one of them explained.
 
 Questions over availability of BTech courses in mainstream colleges also cropped up since officially either   (DTU) or   (NSIT) offers this course. “These courses are not available everywhere. They are still on the website of some arts and science colleges because the last batch of BTech students, under FYUP, is passing out this year,” said Gurpreet Tuteja, dean of students’ welfare. 
 
 A seat in BTech course in DTU or NSIT can only be secured through an entrance test, details of which will be available around May 31, officials said.
 
 Admission seekers also came up with queries on the requirement of documents during the registration process. One of them asked if his Class XII certificate would be accepted if it didn’t have his full name as mentioned in the caste certificate. However, he was told that he must use the time till June 12 to get appropriate corrections in the Class XII certificate done. “The information in your Class X, Class XII and caste certificates should be the same and in sync for them to be accepted,” Tuteja said. 
 
 Another aspirant asked about the best way to choose the maximum-scoring certificate for admission through the sports quota, to which officials explained that a list of certificates and their corresponding points would be available on the portal. 
 
 
