NEW DELHI:   chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s statement in Gorakhpur on Sunday that “there is no place for those who give patronage to the goonda elements and mafia”, reflected his style of functioning.
 
  Although the chief minister has avoided any major bureaucratic reshuffle, his message to the IAS and IPS officers is clear — that he is different from his predecessors who ruled the state in last two decades. Moreover, he doesn’t appear to be in a haste to hold Cabinet meetings.
  
  “Top officials are spending sleepless nights preparing reports about their offices. I think, Yogiji, before working out his strategies for each department, first wants to understand their status,” a senior Uttar Pradesh official told ET, adding that presentations would be made before the chief minister on March 27, 28 and 29.
  
  His surprise visits to different parts of the state secretariat, including the record rooms, indicate that the chief minister is leaving nothing to chance.
  
  “He made queries about availability of water purifiers and cleanliness drive,” said another official in the UP secretariat, adding the CM’s special focus has led to some positive changes at the secretariat. “Unlike the past, only persons with passes are being allowed in the secretariat. Yogi’s message is loud and clear — that he means business,” said the official.
  
  
 
 
  
  The CM is also keeping a close eye on the functioning of the UP police. In his first encounter with the top officials of the home department and UP police as CM-designate, Adityanath had made it clear that he won’t tolerate mismanagement at the swearing-in ceremony.
  
  “Even BJP cadres were supposed to follow the discipline at the event,” a senior police official said. The new dispensation’s decision to do away with the “VIP culture” has come as a major relief for the UP police.
  
  
 
  
  “A week after the formation of the new government, checks have been put in place on the demands for gunners from the police. Also, none would dare use hooters now,” a police official said. In fact, the CM is personally monitoring the police action on   and the functioning of the anti-Romeo squads.
  
  “Yogiji wants state police to keep any person or organisation away from the special drive to close illegal slaughterhouses.” 
