Ahmedabad: The city and state police on Tuesday conducted an elaborate dress rehearsal for PM Modi and Japan PM Shinzo Abe’s visit.

 During the rehearsal, city roads were closed down from 10 minutes to 30 minutes, causing major traffic jams in most of the areas on the route. Police have already asked citizens to avoid the roads where there will be VVIP movement on September 13 and 14. 
 
 Officials said that the citizens have to be cautious about planning to reach their destinations on Wednesday. “It’s better to start early and be settled in workplaces or other destinations before 11am,” said an official. While city police officials were not available for comment, sources said that police have sought help from administration and AMC to make infrastructural changes on the route. 
 
 The preparations were given final touch with installation of a Buddha idol on Riverfront road and life-size cutouts of both the prime ministers at prominent locations on the route. Bridges like Subhash Bridge were decorated with Gujarati traditional toran to welcome the dignitaries as 30-odd stages have been set up to give glimpse of India’s culture.
 
 Pradipsinh Jadeja, MoS (home), on Tuesday, visited Mahatma Mandir with senior state police officials and reviewed security arrangements. He told media that a coordination meet between high-level officers from India and Japan has taken place over the security of the summit.
 
 Selfie with Modi 
 
 Life-size cut-outs of PM Narendra Modi were a big hit with people as several visitors to various venues were seen clicking selfies and photographs with ‘NaMo.’ The decorated areas became excursion points for people causing traffic jams. (pic)
 
 Covering for city 
 
 A major stretch on the Sabarmati riverfront, to be taken by Modi and Abe besides dignitaries from Japan, has been covered with banners of ‘India’s First Heritage City’ and those depicting Gujarat’s traditional art. However, close inspection reveals that the banners have been strategically placed to cover up unfinished work or other eyesores. (pic)
 
 Problem of excess? 
 
 Sources in the city police said that the last-minute change in plans by the BJP has put cops in a fix. While the earlier estimates were for about 10,000 people from across the state participating in the road show, the number has increased significantly, forcing the top cops to seek solution. A high-level meeting was convened at CP office on Tuesday to discuss the change of plans.
 
 Order for teachers
 
 The district panchayat education committee of Ahmedabad has issued an order asking teachers of government schools to remain present at the foundation laying ceremony of bullet train at railway athletics ground. Schools with three teachers have to send one to the ground while those with four should send two. Fortunately, schools with two teachers are exempt from this order. An attendance of the teachers will also be taken at the venue.
 
 Rajiv, Indira statues eclipsed
 
 Just diaognally opposite the Sidi Saiyed mosque are the statues of former prime ministers Rajiv Gandhi and Indira Gandhi. On Tuesday night, the Congress protested after focus lights over the Congress leaders’ statues was switched off while lights on newly installed Jay Prakash Narayan statue were kept lit. Congress leader Surendra Baxi said: “Why are both the former Congress PMs of the country treated so shabbily?” 
 
 Vvips’ Visit Promises Several Projects Ahead Of State Elections
 
 
