Nagpur: Car makers have taken a cumulative dip of 4.4% in December sales growth. It began with a de-growth of 0.6% in November when demonetisation came into force. The fall was deeper in the next month. Ford India’s Executive Director (marketing sales and service), Anurag Mehrotra, said the industry may face some impact of the note ban move till March. However, much is expected from the budget to give a stimulus to the market, he added. Mehrotra was in the city to inaugurate a new showroom of Ford. This is the second dealership in Nagpur.  He said the industry estimates overall de-growth due demonetisation by the quarter ending on March to be at 1 to 2%. In the normal course, what would have been a 7% to 8% growth, has turned out to be, under the current circumstances, in the range of 5% to 7%, he said. Mehrotra said the sops expected to be announced in the budget will push the car sales in coming days.  On Ford’s plans, he said the company’s focus is on a campaign is that the brand has among the lowest cost of maintaining a car. Accessibility of the service and spares is also one of the key areas of focus. “Consumers may be interested in travelling a distance to buy a car but they prefer to get after sales service close by,” said Mehrotra. With an eye on smaller cities of the country, Ford also plans to start one sales-cum-service centres in every two weeks. This will be smaller than regular showrooms but cater to both sales as well as after-sales service, he said. Ford also plans to maximise locally procured spares or assemble the parts. From 70 to 75% localisation, Ford has recently touched 80% with an aim to take it to 90%, said Mehrotra. On the Nagpur plans, he said the dealership in the city will soon have the much-touted Ford Mustang, priced at Rs65 lakh. “Launched in 1964 in the US, the car featured in 1,500 movies and has gained a cult status. The Mustang is being introduced in the small cities from November 2016. Nagpur will soon have a few units.”  “Given the number of car enthusiasts in the city, there are good prospects for the cars. There have been around seven inquiries so far for Ford Mustang,” said Karan Patni of the M/s Arun Ford, the newly opened agency. 