PUNE: Uruli Devachi and Phursungi villagers withdrew their agitation on Sunday after chief minister   assured them of having the problem resolved permanently as the PMC will have a concrete plan within a month.

 However, the   (PMC) is completely in dark about any such plan and banks on assistance from politicians’ and citizens for a solution. 
 
 The civic officials on Sunday said they will ready a plan as the CM himself had intervened. They, however, admitted that the civic body has no ‘magical wand’ to find a solution within a month.
 
 In the last 23 years, many such plans have been proposed and prepared, but the reality has not changed.
 
 “The civic body is under tremendous political pressure to prepare a concrete plan, but it is impossible to get a detailed plan ready within a month. We need a long-term strategy where elected representatives and citizens are involved. But this is a long process,” said a senior official.
 
 Civic administration has already tried to convince elected members and all party leaders that setting up small   processing units in each ward of the city is the only solution. “ However, elected members are not very enthusiastic to set up units in their wards as they fear the units will create odour and their voters will be upset,” said the official.
 
 Minister of state Vijay Shivtare who is coordinating between the villagers of Uruli Devachi -Phursungi and the PMC said, “ The chief minister will speak to   corporators and leaders and I will initiate dialogue with   corporators. If the ruling corporators agree to set up units, the garbage problem will be resolved without any delay,” said Shivtare. 
 
 Villagers are opting for a wait and watch policy. “All these years we have received assurances and promises from various leaders. This time it is chief minister Fadnavis. Villagers will wait to see what he has to say after a month and what PMC comes up with,” said Dilip Mehta, president of the Environment Conservation Committee of Phursungi.
 
 Earlier on Saturday, the villagers had refused to speak to anyone although the leaders from various political parties, including BJP, Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress among others, had visited the areas. They were unwilling to hold talks with the government till the civic body and the state promised in writing that the garbage depot in the village limits will be shut down forever. Agitating villagers had tied black ribbons on their mouths and refused to hold talks. 
 
