It’s generated the biggest debate even before the whole   brouhaha erupted and it doesn’t look like it’s reaching an end anytime soon. We’re talking of the latest high heel controversy — on making it mandatory for women to wear   to the   in the UK. At a time when women won’t take it lightly about being told what to do and not do, the must-wear-heels rule has not gone down quietly at all. Having stoked enough criticism, and indignation, the issue has reached the   for debate, where British lawmakers are asking companies to end the ‘sexist high heel dress code’. Here’s more...

 
  
  
 The issue gained attention after UK-based receptionist   was sent home for wearing flat shoes. She was told that her shoes were unacceptable while on assignment in London with a finance firm and sent home without pay. Thorp hit back and launched an online petition, which calls formal workplace dress codes ‘outdated and sexist’. So far, it has gathered more than 150,000 signatures and recently, members of the Parliament debated a ban on mandatory workplace high heels, in response to it. It was debated whether this counted as gender discrimination. The Petitions Committee and Women and Equalities Committee has published a ‘High heels and workplace dress codes’ report that revealed the troubling experiences of workers affected by discriminatory dress codes. The government’s response on this is awaited. The topic also churned up a storm online. One Twitter user wrote, “High heels are dinosaur dress code and ought to be extinct in modern workplace,” while another ranted, “As an employer, you’re saying you prefer that women *learn a new way to walk* and be physically uncomfortable at work.” 
  Back home, high heels at the workplace may not be such a fiery topic yet, but the issue is still very much in the offing.
 
 
 For a large section of women in the city, having wear heels to work has been a long-standing rule. Nisha Verma, who worked in the hospitality industry, was fed up of being ‘well-heeled’. “I had to wear heels for almost six years and it really affected my feet. I can’t remember a day going by without leg pain. Unfortunately, since I had to meet guests all the time I couldn’t get away with anything else,” she says. Adds people manager Flora Vaz, “Appearances do matter at work, so it is a case of no gain, no pain. But I do hope better sense prevails soon and women are no longer asked to suffer in heels at the workplace,” she says. 
 
 
  
  
 Why just abroad, so many women back home too, are made to wear heels in their line of work, affirms joint replacement surgeon, Dr Tejas D Upasani, “There is close to a 40-50 per cent rise in cases of women with foot troubles, especially those in a bank job and at the front desk (hospitality industry). It starts out with just a joint ache and can later lead to arthritis of the knee and severe back pain. We need to stop women from wearing high heels in any industry. Once in a while is okay, but it cannot be a regular feature,” he warns.
  Adds   surgeon Dr Sachin Bhonsle, “In Mumbai too, employers expect women to wear heels. Some of my patients are airline cabin crew, who say it’s so tough to stand through the flight and walk through airports in their heels. I think it is absolutely undemocratic to force people to wear them. For those with an existing problem, it gets worse. For instance, if you have tight hamstrings and continue to wear heels, your posture will be affected. For some women, heels are worn from 9 am to 9 pm, which puts immense strain on the back. Because the foot is at a slope, you can develop hammertoes, bunions and other painful deformities. I would not completely discourage anyone from wearing heels, but use them wisely — not more than four hours a day,” he cautions.
  Don’t compromise on foot health, adds orthopaedic surgeon Dr Mudit Khanna. “Women don’t realise how high heels can put pressure on the foot and make it go out of place. It also exudes pressure on the discs in the spine, forcing them to push their hips forward for balance. We talk of anti-ageing so much, but this is just as crucial because those three inches can prematurely age the joints and change your gait for life,” he says.
 
 
  
  
 To reduce the risk of permanent damage, experts advocate choosing flats and explain that the wider the surface of the heel, the more support there is for the arches of the feet. Says personality expert Romila Das, “If you can’t wear high heels, try wedges, mules, nude kitten heels, satin pumps, which can easily go from day to night or even thicker heels that reduce the impact of walking.” Our suggestion? Elegant loafers in grey or a black and white print, which make for work-appropriate footwear. 
 
 
  
  
 
 High heels have been embroiled in controversy for some time now, in an on-and-off ban in different places across the globe. A few years ago, hairdressers in the EU were banned from wearing high heels, and a Russian lawmaker wanted to ban sky-high stilettos. But the Cannes Film Fest made a case for them with ‘Flatgate’, by reportedly banning those not wearing heels on the red carpet. A famous restaurant in LA also enraged folks after posting a dress code rule that required women to wear high heels. 
 
 
  
  
 Never thought the two words heels and gym would go together? Think again. In a bizarre trend, a ‘stiletto workout’ came about that meant to tighten the butt, abs and smaller muscles. It has women doing sit ups, squats and lunges in heels. But podiatrists warn against working up a sweat in anything but your cross trainers as it ups the risk of falling. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
