HYDERABAD: For estranged couples, the   seems to be a saviour with the civic body planning to handle the family tensions and resolve the husband-wife bickering.

 With a slogan 'Unite the Family and Divide the Waste', the   (GHMC) has taken up a novel programme to unite separated couples. As many as 125 such couples will be united at a special programme on Wednesday.
 
 The municipal corporation, as part of urban community development programmes and as part of its social responsibility activities, has initiated the programme by roping in self-help group (SHG) members. “We chose some women members and formed social action teams who in turn counselled such separated couples,“ GHMC commissioner BJanardhan Reddy told TOI. Officials said one of the reasons for taking up the campaign was increasing divorce rate in India.The common causes of the break-ups are forced marriages, adultery and dowry harassment. Interestingly, police and politicians referred some such cases to the selfhelp groups. Mayor Bonthu Rammohan, in an attempt to give a push to the programme, has asked all the TRS corporators, especially women, to identify couples living separately and suggest that they seek counselling.
 
 “There are cases where couples began living separately after arguments over joining their children in a particular school or the wife taking up a job. Most of such issues can be sorted out without any major problems," GHMC additional commissioner (UCD) V   said.
 
 Though GHMC identified 160 such `broken' couples, it managed to help 125 of them to comeback together. The social action team members were identified based on their previous training in family counselling. Over the past month, they met each couple two or three times. “They were counselled on advantages of being part of a family and the adverse effects of the separation on children. By living together, they can become great parents, gain enrichment in life and find happiness. At the same time, where families have grand parents, they make great teachers. Such families also enjoy better social security and economic stability. At the same time, the couples were also informed about existing laws pertaining to marriage and separation and their implications,“ Bhaskara Chary said. Officials said of the total 125 couples, 46 are from Kapra, 28 from Qutubullapur, 19 from Kukatpally, 14 from Charminar, eight from  , 32 from Alwal and 11 from Malkajgiri municipal circles. “ At the formal ceremony at Ravindra Bharathi on Wednesday, each couple will be presented with a dhoti and silk saree. And once they are together, the SHG members will continue to visit their houses once in a couple of weeks," Janardhan Reddy said.
 
