If all goes well,   from   will soon go for sale on a larger level. On Saturday, the state government issued an iconic order, urging all the local bodies to scientifically process garbage, and promote marketing and sale of compost under its brand ‘Harit Mahacity compost’.

 The   has given its nod for this initiative that involves processing of biodegradable wet and dry waste in order to produce compost.
 
 In   alone, the corporation generates around 500 tonnes of compost out of the total 1,600 tonnes waste per day. Out of this, the   (PMC) sells around 100 tonnes compost to farmers.
 
 Talking about the initiative, Suresh Jagtap, head of solid waste management (SWM) department, PMC, informed, “We generate around 500 tonnes compost in the city on a daily basis. Out of this, around 100 tonnes compost is being sold to farmers located within 50 km of city limits. The transportation cost of each vehicle is around Rs 500. We have kept the transportation prices very low so that more farmers approach us and buy compost.”
 
 The order states to check the quality of compost at various state government- recommended laboratories before sale. These laboratories are based in Pune, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Amravati and Nashik, which will grant a certificate before the compost hits the markets.
 
 Jagtap continued, “It is possible to implement the order, but we have to scientifically process and generate compost from city waste. However, the major problem is its segregation. We need to give a quality amount of time to segregate waste, which will result in generating compost of excellent value.”
 
 Meanwhile, a petition has been filed with the Pune bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the PMC, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and others, demanding to shut down all the municipal organic and inorganic solid waste processing plants installed by the civic body at 13 different spots.
 
 The petitioner claims that the PMC fails to comply with all the required rules and produces compost, which is not in compliance with the specifications of the Municipal Solid Waste Rules (MSW) 2000 and the Solid Waste Management (SWM) Rules, 2016.
 
 This petition has been filed by Major General SC N Jatar (Retd), president of the Nagari Chetana Manch. He claims that the processing of microorganism- based compost is scientifically impossible and the authorities have failed to carry out its chemical analysis independently.
 
 To back his claims, Jatar even submitted a copy of the test conducted in a private laboratory, indicating that the processing of compost is not carried out as per required parameters, making it hazardous to the plants as well as human beings due to the existence of a high ratio of poisonous substance like chromium and mercury in it.
 
 The MPCB on April 15, 2017 had submitted an affidavit over the objections taken by the petitioner and admitted the fact that the compost was not processed as per specifications. MPCB also told that it has issued a show cause notice to the PMC in this regard.
 
 
