COIMBATORE/CHENNAI:   across the state are reporting a 30% drop in footfall just a fortnight after the price hike brought on by the implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST). Since   came into effect on July 1, the price of movie tickets below Rs 100 has increased by 18%, while the price of tickets above Rs 100 has increased by 28%. It has made tickets costlier by Rs 10 to Rs 30 across the state.

 While the increase in ticket prices is cited as a reason, the fact that even basic requirements like clothes and food has become more expensive is making movie outings the last priority.
 
 A little less than two weeks after theatre owners across the state went on strike against the tax slabs levied as part of GST, M Subramaniam, president, Cinema Owners Association (western region), says footfalls, especially in large older theatres in rural areas, have fallen by 30% to 40%. “Prices of tickets going up is one reason, but another reason is that the public is reeling under an increase in the prices of all products. When eating out, travel, clothes and electronics are becoming more expensive, going to movies become the last priority and entertainment option,” he said.
 
 While multiplexes, whose prices have actually shot up by a sizeable Rs 30 per ticket, say they do not see much of a difference in footfalls so far, in large theatres in the city there is a 10% to 15% drop in ticket sales and earnings. “There is a slightly more than 10% fall in ticket sales, because a Rs 20 increase per ticket affects students watching a movie repeatedly and large families coming for a movie, because it costs them almost Rs 80 to Rs 100 more,” said Subramani, assistant manager, Central Theatre, Mettupalayam Road. “And people are yet to accept the hike in prices of all products,” he said.
 
 At Ganapathy Ram Theatre in Adyar, Chennai, footfall has reduced drastically. On Saturday, usually a busy day for theatres, Ganapthy Ram sold only 58 tickets for the evening show and only a handful of tickets for the night show. “On a Saturday, we used to sell a minimum of 150 tickets but the turnout has reduced over the last two weekends.” Following the GST implementation, the price of the balcony ticket rose from Rs 60 to Rs 80 and stall ticket from Rs 80 to Rs 100 at Ganapathy Ram.
 
 Says Tamil Nadu Cinema Theatre Owners Federation president Abirami Ramanathan: “The footfall has fallen in theatres across the state, but we cannot be certain that it is due to GST. We can only gauge the impact of GST after the release of some star films slated for release next month.”
 
 Theatre owners say they will know the real impact of GST only after big movies like the Dhanush starrer VIP 2 releases this month-end or the Ajith starrer Vivekam releases in August. “The movies running now anyway do not draw massive crowds, but only when a big movie with big stars is releases will we know the difference,” said A Senthel, owner of Senthel Kumaran Theatres. Sathyam cinemas in Coimbatore too said they did not notice a shortfall so far.
 
