BENGALURU: A few weeks ago, Kodichikkanahalli resident Nirmala Krupanandh called up the animal husbandry department to alert about the behaviour of two stray dogs exhibiting rabies symptoms. However, the officials shrugged off their responsibility, stating the Compassion Unlimited Plus Action (CUPA) was in charge of the area's stray dog population. 

 The BBMP is responsible for implementing the animal birth control (ABC) programme and regulating the stray dog population in the city. However, there are just three such centres functioning in the metropolis - one without a building to work from and the other two are crippled by lack of funds.
 
 Harini Raghavan, a resident of  , said: "I have no choice but to take my dog to private vets where it costs Rs 4,000 to Rs 4,500 for treatment. A booster shot of the vaccine would cost Rs 1,000 extra," she said, adding that the BBMP should take up re-vaccination of dogs every three years with the help of NGOs.
 
 With the Palike missing in action unless complaints are made, citizens are now forced to resort to innovative ways to catch the canines. 
 
 Krithika, an animal lover in JP Nagar, said there are nearly 50 dogs on her street alone. "Catching them is a problem as we are not professionals. We try to feed and pick up the friendly ones, but the shy and aggressive dogs have to be cornered in a compound. We have even made barriers out of saris to trap them on a particular road. I know people who have bought nets, remodelled their vans and become catchers themselves," she said. 
 
 Suparna Ganguly, co-founder trustee of CUPA, the NGO incharge of the ABC programme for  , said: "We are committed to conducting about 600 operations per month. The BBMP is not giving the ABC programme the thrust it needs. We have not been paid since December 2016. The dues are Rs 24 lakh," she said.
 
 Shamalatha Rao, an animal activist for two decades now, said mobile surgery units would be a boon to the ABC programme. "It is innovative and will save time, fuel and help in covering more animals. The locals can also get involved in the post-operative care," she pointed out. 
 
