LUCKNOW: The   patriarch has earned the sobriquet of ‘Maulana’ Mulayam for his proactive initiatives for the minority community ever since he became the CM in 1989 for the first time. Now, Bahujan Samaj Party chief   seems to have taken a leaf out of her arch-rival’s book in a bid to attract Muslims to augment her solid Dalit vote bank.

 With the ruling SP is undergoing a bitter family feud and its chief   is making way for his son, the BSP chief is targeting his core voters—Muslims—who have been staunch supporters of the SP chief for quite some time.
 
 Not only has Mayawati fielded a record number of 99 Muslim candidates in the assembly elections, she has also been constantly adopting a belligerent stand against PM Narendra Modi and the BJP, much to the delight of the community. In a bid to show her pro-Muslim tilt, she ignored all media criticism and showed no inhibition in inducting mafia-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari and his two brothers along with their Quami Ekta Dal.
 
 She has fielded Mukhtar, his son and his elder brother Sibgatullah in Mau and Ghazipur with an eye on Muslim votes in at least half a dozen districts of east UP. “She knows that after three successive defeats in 2009, 2012 and 2014, how crucial a victory in 2017 is for the survival of her party and the Dalit mission. That’s why she is using all possible options to set her cast and community arithmetic right,” says an observer.
 
 Mayawati has also been aggressively marketing her regime as being a riot-free as compared to the present regime. Speaking in Muslim-dominated districts like Muzaffarnagar, Shamli and Aligarh, she openly said that there were more 500 riots during the past five years of this government, pitching her rule as a ‘safe alternative’ to the community.
 
 Despite the fact that the BSP is an offshoot of BAMCEF (Backward and Minority Communities Employees Federation) movement, in her regime between 2007 and 2012, the BSP government did not initiate any special welfare scheme for the minorities as it had done for Dalits. It wooed Brahmins in 2007 for an experiment with social engineering which paid off.
 
 Mulayam, on the other hand, has always been a messiah for Muslims. He didn’t shy away from ordering firing on the frenzied kar sewaks in 1990 to protect the Babri Masjid. After this action, saffron forces nicknamed him ‘Maulana Mulayam’—a title he has never resented. Thereafter, despite being accused of practising minority appeasement during his party’s three regimes, he remained committed to the community. He also promised to give reservation to Muslims as per Sachar Commission’s recommendations. As a result, out of 68 Muslim MLAs after 2012 UP polls, 43 were from SP.
 
 Now, his staunch rival appears to be almost following her footsteps. Whether she will be able to win over the community like the Yadav chieftain will be clear in the first two phases of voting.
 
