Noida: A few days after TOI reported that many who had invested in publishing programmes of Webwork Trade Private Limited, located in Noida’s Sector 2, had started rushing to get their money back, the company which offers Rs 6 for advertising one link on its webpage ‘addsbook.com’, similar to frennzup.com in  , has “temporarily shut down” its operations.

 According to sources, “publishers” who had invested their money in the publishing programmes of the company meant to advertise products registered on the webpage had started flowing to the company’s office since February 7. A notice about the closure of the company till April 20 had come up outside its office on Saturday.
 
 On February, the company gave advertisements in some local Hindi newspapers announcing the closure of the company’s operations due to change in the banking system even as it has “assured” the investors that the advertisers’ licence that they had bought are safe and that both their investments and returns are also safe.
 
 The company had also started returning the money of publishers through bitcoin - a virtual currency - against the use of which, the RBI had issued an advisory recently.
 
 However, thousands of investors, based in Meerut, Punjab, Haryana, UP and other states, seemed to be worried about their money.
 
 “I had invested nearly Rs 23,000 in the company’s programmes and initially, the returns were coming. However, the returns started becoming irregular. Then, when we would open our IDs, we would get messages saying that the ‘new website will be opened’, ‘new site is being launched’, etc. However, now the returns have stopped completely,” Saurabh Sharma, a resident of Indore, told TOI.
 
 The   police had received a complaint from a Ghaziabad resident, Amit Kishore Jain on Friday, who complained that the company, which is being promoted by brand ambassador   is “cheating innocent people”.
 
 The company’s office, D-57, Sector 2, which has a large photograph of Nawazuddin Siddiqui pasted outside, had a huge notice pasted on the gate on Sunday.
 
 “It is being informed that the company is forced to close its permanent operations due to the change in the banking system for one-two months till April 20. We want to assure all the customers and the publishers that their advertising license is safe with us and their payments and returns are also safe,” reads the notice. 
 
 “We have received only one complaint from AK Jain so far. His complaint has been forwarded to the cyber cell, which is studying the bulk of papers it has,” ASP Gaurav Grover told TOI.
 
 Complainant Amit Kishore Jain told TOI that the directors of the company seem to have fled abroad, a claim denied by Anurag Garg, director, Webwork Private Limited.
 
 “We are going nowhere. I am based in Ghaziabad and Sandesh Verma is based in Delhi. We have shut down the company because we were receiving threats from some people. We don’t even know if they are publishers. I have submitted a complaint to the Sector 20 police station about some men entering our office and breaking laptops,” Garg said.
 
 
