NAGPUR: The Republican Party of India, now much fragmented and seen as a spent force, was once a major   party. It had a big presence in Nagpur Municipal Corporation ever since the civic body’s inception in 1950s and has given city several mayors and deputy mayors as well as standing committee chairmen and members.

 Promemnt among RPI leaders who held high civic body posts in the city are Sadanand Fulzele, who was probably the first deputy mayor from the RPI when Sheshrao Wankhede became city’s first mayor. Then, in year 1962-63, Dr D P Meshram of RPI became mayor. Other RPI leaders elected as the first citizen of the city include: S M Meshram (1970-71), Ram Ratan Janorkar (1976-77), Sakharam Chahande (1979-82) and Tejram Somkuwar (1986-87). Prominent standing committee chairmen from RPI include Nana Shamkule and Madhukar Meshram.
 
 This nugget of civic history was refreshed on Thursday when old Republican leader Jogendra Kawade, MLC, announced formation of a   to contest the coming   elections. The Front is knit loosely with smaller RPI factions. “This is our way to fulfil the social responsibility of the Republican Party. RPI was once the number two party in the state. “It was so powerful that Congress stalwart Y B Chavan joined hands seeing it as an advantage,” Kawade told reporters on Thursday.
 
 The Front, cobbled together by 12 factions, has decided to contest at least 75 seats in Feb 21  . But major factions like one led by Prakash Ambedkar and Ramdas Athavale are not part of it. Even another faction led by Upendra Shende recently has stayed away and announced its plans to contest some 100 seats on its own. The Front may be a feeble attempt to bring back old glory to Republican movement in the city which is seen at its epicentre. “Committed workers of the movement are enthused,” said Kawade.
 
 The Front includes RPI (Gavai), a faction of RPI (Khobragade), Republican Sena of Anandraj Ambedkar, RPI Ektavadi factions of RPI (K) led by Vasudev Bagde and Sunil Ramteke, Samata Sainik Dal, Aikyavadi RPI of Dilip Jagtap, faction led by Yeshwant Telang, Republican Aikya Parishad, Republican Andolan of Prabhakar Koche.
 
 “We are open for talks with all like-minded factions. We have in the past offered leadership position to Prakash Ambedkar but he seems to have ‘allergy’ for unification,” remarked Kawade. “If we want to end control of Congress, NCP, BJP or Shiv Sena in various parts of the state there is no alternative to all RPI factions getting united,” Kawade stated.
 
