The   has become a hot spot for adventure enthusiasts — especially trekkers, rock climbers, photographers and revelers. However, there have been reports of casualties from these popular trekking destinations because most of them are accident prone, especially during the monsoons.

 To address this issue, a bunch of experienced mountaineers and trekkers have come together and formed a helpline service that directs them to the dedicated teams stationed at various locations in the hilly ranges to ensure prompt response in case of emergency.
 
 “The cases of getting lost, slipping into the waterfall and drowning increase during this season. Therefore, we thought of bringing all the rescue teams across the state under one umbrella. These 250-member teams are well-equipped and are trained to tackle adverse situations. They are close to the forts and can immediately respond to distress calls. Most emergencies happen when people venture into terrains which are unfamiliar to them,” says Bhushan Harshe, operations head,  .
 
  
  
 
 
 Trekker Sunil Gaikwad of Shivdurga Pratishthan, from   reveals that while his expert team is stationed at Lonavala, they have also gathered local villagers to act faster in the case of an emergency. "There are around nine forts, and seven dams around this zone, Rajmachi, Tung, Tikona, Tailbaila, etc. There are several cases of people slipping and falling in the waterfalls,” says Sunil. Talking about a recent incident, he adds, “Last month six people were drowned in Pavana dam. They were sitting on the edge. Three of them slipped and the rest drowned as they jumped in to save them.”
 Most team members also feel that the revellers are not cautious and do not carry safety equipment with them. Trekker, Dayanand Koli from Vainatey Giryarohan and Giryabhraman Club, Nashik says, “People should go trekking with registered clubs who can guide them properly. They should also have basic safety equipment,” he says. Narrating an incident, he says, “Just a few days ago, a group lost their way when they were on their way to Bhasgad fort. One of the members called the Mumbai rescue team, and they immediately alerted us.”
 
  
  
 
 The Maharashtra Mountaineers Rescue Coordination Centre ( ) helpline that has been active for the past six months has so far received 25-30 rescue calls since the onset of monsoon.
 
 Matheran,  , Lonavala and Tamhini are quite accident prone areas.
 
 Pointing to the rising trend of taking selfies at these spots, Umesh Zirpe, founder of MMRCC says, “The selfie fad is one of the reasons that the accident rate in these regions have gone up. While clicking selfies isn't wrong, clicking them at dangerous places should not be encouraged.” The attempt of daredevilry to impress friends on social media, often ends up destroying lives, he adds.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Carry a detailed map of the area you are trekking
 
 Flashlight/ headlight
 
 Bring extra food and water in case you are delayed by emergencies
 
 Carry first-aid supplies for minor injuries
 
 Carry whistle for emergencies
 
 
