NEW DELHI: China’s hardening stand over the standoff with India in   appears to be of a piece with President Xi Jinping’s stated aspirations of turning his country into the world’s leading superpower.
 
  Xi has been vocal about his objectives ever since he came to power in 2013 and he clearly does not want to be seen as failing in his endeavour. Especially so since he is seeking re-election as the general secretary of the   ahead of its 19th National Congress scheduled to be held in late October and early November. He would also like to pack the party’s politburo and standing committee with his supporters. Therefore, he is unlikely to end the standoff in Doklam in the near future at any expense to his image.
  
  Xi’s “Chinese dream” envisages restoring China to its imperial glory. According to San Hongnian, a researcher with the Research Centre of China’s Borderland History and Geography under the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS), Nepal, Sikkim and Bhutan had been vassal states of the Qing Empire (1644-1911). The British Empire took over control of these countries to expand its influence in Tibet, and India wanted to inherit these assets (Global Times, May 7, 2017).
  
  China appears upset over India’s decision not to join its One Belt One Road initiative and skip the two-day   summit in May. The China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, the flagship of OBOR, which is now known as the Belt Road Initiative (BRI) is not progressing as smoothly as China would have wanted. Sections of Pakistan’s civil society and media have claimed that Pakistan is destined to be mortgaged to China following OBOR. While Myanmar appears unsure about the initiative, Sri Lanka is reportedly rethinking about it, even as it is already caught in China’s “debt trap”.
  
  Besides, BRI has not made any progress in Bangladesh. This may not augur well for President Xi at the 19th National Congress.
  
  “China has unleashed its ‘three warfares’ strategy in full,” said Bhaskar Roy, a former Indian diplomat and China watcher who has served in Beijing as well as Washington, DC. “Media warfare is being witnessed in the Chinese media (along with the foreign ministry’s media briefings). This includes Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang’s statement that brought in the Kashmir issue and exchange of fire between Indian and Pakistani troops across the LOC as ‘undermining regional stability’. A media commentary also suggested that if Indian troops could enter Doklam, then a third party could intervene in Kashmir.”
  
  The second, Roy said, is psychological warfare, as evident in the recent live fire exercise in the Tibet-Qinghai plateau at a height of 5,000 feet and telecast over Chinese Central Television, suggesting China is prepared for a war in the Himalayan region, “to strike fear in the hearts of the Indian troops”. Reports of Chinese T-96 tanks training at high altitudes suggest Chinese attacks could extend to other parts of the long disputed Indo-Chinese border, he said.
  
  “Third, creating historical texts to argue Chinese claims. There is a Chinese saying, ‘Use the past to serve the present’, which means reconstruct history,” said Roy. “Chinese foreign ministry spokespersons claimed that the 1890 tripartite treaty between the British Indian government, the Chinese government and Bhutan had settled the boundary between India, Sikkim and Tibet, and that India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had confirmed it to Chinese premier Zhou Enlai in a letter of March 1959. But the Chinese official was quoting selectively from the 1890 treaty and Nehru’s letter,” he said.
  
  China has painted itself into a corner owing to its domestic constituency and the party, Roy said. But India has decided not to exacerbate the situation in Doklam and is not willing to engage China in a war of words, choosing to rely on diplomacy instead. 
