NEW DELHI: Hoping to make a comeback as the   CM,   faces an image-deficit owing to the corruption charges against him, but a listless and faceless BJP could make his task easier.

 The CM blamed BJP for scams during the Congress regime, seeking to target predecessor  , who crossed over to the saffron camp following a failed coup against Rawat. "Corruption is an issue on which BJP alone has to answer. I haven't signed even a single licence for mining or crushers. They happened either during the chief ministership of Bahuguna or earlier BJP regimes," Rawat told TOI in an interview.
 
 Attacking BJP, Rawat said the "polyhouse scam" relates to  , who has since joined the saffron party, the "seeds scam" to another former minister, while the infamous flood relief irregularities are linked to Bahuguna. When reminded that Bahuguna was a Congress CM in the current assembly and Amrita a minister, Rawat disowned them, saying they were now BJP's poll nominees.
 
 Nine Congress MLAs joined hands with BJP to bring down the Rawat regime in March last year, only to see the high court reinstate the state government. 
 The rebels later joined BJP. 
 
 Drawing a neat line between Congress and the turncoats, Rawat said, "Bahuguna, by leaving, has proved he was never a Congressman. Now, PM   and   should order an inquiry into their roles."
 
 The Uttarakhand satrap-hailing from the Kumaon region and belonging to the Thakur community - faces charges from within and outside that he has worked along sub-regional and caste lines for political gains. The CM, however, rubbished charges of patronising division along "Kumaon vs Garhwal" or "brahmin vs Thakur" lines.
 
 "There is no bias. Those who make these allegations don't understand Uttarakhand. Our plank is development. We will get better support from the Garhwal region. We believe in 'Uttarakhandiat', which is a big umbrella identity," he said.
 
 The state's liquor policy, called FL2, has been another magnet for charges of corruption as it is alleged to have been used to establish the monopoly of obscure brands by pushing the prevalent ones out of the market. However, Rawat claimed the policy had taken away licensing authority from "  and Namdhari" and vested it in the state undertaking, Mandi Parishad.
 
