NEW DELHI: The   has asked the   to quickly take steps to secure "credible assurances from the Donald  " that the Indian community, especially professionals, will not become "victims" of Washington's decision to impose "social profiling" on its immigrants. It also hopes that the new visa norms in the US will not adversely hit Indian techies.
 
  With the budget session of Parliament beginning from Tuesday, the main Opposition party has sought an assurance from the Centre to safeguard Indian professionals in the US, and those planning to travel to that nation and cautioned that New Delhi's failure to secure such an assurance will "cause serious social and economic issues in India".
  
  Though India does not figure among the seven countries whose citizens now face travel restrictions to USA, senior Congress leader and former Union Commerce and Industry Minister   told ET that the move of the Trump administration has created apprehensions among Indian community in America, which needs credible reassurance. Sharma said: "Instead of exhausting his energy and fertile imagination in giving an exaggerated spin to President Trump's courtesy telephone call to him, Prime Minister   and his government must urgently do what bothers the Indian community, especially professionals in the US, in the wake of the unfortunate social profiling of immigrants.
  
  The Congress party demands that the Modi government urgently take steps to get credible assurance from the Trump administration that its policy will not affect Indians, especially professionals, settled in the US, or are in the process of travelling to the US. Equally, the Modi government must ensure that the new visa norms, reportedly under consideration in the US, will not jeopardise the prospects of Indian techies whose capabilities and contributions stand universally acknowledged and admired," Sharma said.
  
  "We want to caution the PM that any failure or even delay by New Delhi to get the Trump administration to commit to protect the Indians settled in the US, especially the professionals, and their interests could result in serious social and economic issues in India."
  
  An estimated 3.5 lakh Indian techies, from different social backgrounds, are in the US on  . Sharma, who is the deputy leader of the Congress in the Rajya Sabha, also termed as "most unfortunate" the Trump administration's "imposing social profiling" of its immigrants and asserted that this policy "directly conflicts with the US' celebrated ethos of democracy, multiculturalism and human rights".
  
  
 
  Anand Sharma has also said that like-minded Opposition parties will meet to firm up a united protest against the Centre’s decision to present the Budget at an advanced date just ahead of the upcoming assembly polls in five states and questioned the decision of the Election Commission which had rejected the opposition to that from various parties, including Congress. 
