  

  Bollywood
 
 The music of this emotional thriller is like exquisite caviar; you may not like it instantly, but you will slowly acquire the taste for it. For 'Mom',   has come up with an album that’s unconventional, both in terms of sounds and treatment. We could even call his attempt daring, for he has composed songs that could easily be dissed, as they are neither massy nor classy. But at the end of the day, the musician has given listeners a variety fare. 
 
 Rahman goes behind the mic for ' ', a hauntingly melodious track that brings out the emotions of a mother (kudos to Irshad Kamil for coming up with beautiful verses like 'O Sona, Tere Liye, Duaaon Ke Jalte Diye' and 'Farishton Ne Sajde Kiye'). While keys dominate the arrangement, the outburst of guitar riffs and violin notes gives the song depth. Needless to say, it’s Rahman who scores — he starts with a subtle rendition, sounding almost off-key and goes on to wow us with his unrestricted performance.  , despite having just a few lines to render, shines.
 
 'Kooke Kawn' opens with a crow’s cawing sound, and this Punjabi club number sounds like a forced addition to the album. Sukhwinder Singh is at his energetic best, but the magic seems to be missing. With Blaaze rapping and dhol beats attempting to take over the BGM, we are left confused by the time the song ends. However, we’ve long forgotten this number when 'Raakh Baakhi' begins. This is not a song, but a recital by Jonita Gandhi and Rianjali. The number is dark, dramatic and also quite chaotic. The acoustic arrangements, intermittently used techno loop, layered orchestration and shrieks, probably to express pain, lend it an aura of mystery. 
 
 'Freaking Life' is an EDM number, probably the first true blue one from Rahman’s stable for a Hindi film. The Hinglish number, sung by Rianjali, Raja Kumari and Suzanne D’mello, brings out the conflicting emotions of teenagers. Shashaa owns 'Chal Kahin Door', which is a mellifluous fusion of Indian classical notes and Western sounds. There’s method to this madness, and the arrangements follow no set pattern; sounds of stream, piano chords, flute, wind chimes and violins somehow fall in place perfectly. This number is musically unpredictable, probably what you expect from Rahman. The track is a little over six minutes long, but it doesn’t tire you.
 
 'Muafi Mushkil' is yet another experimental song — almost a cappella-ish, almost Arabic, almost jazz. While Darshana KT holds the number together, the arrangements bring it to a crescendo. The album ends with 'Be Nazaara', a classical number remastered by Rahman. The song doesn’t start like a traditional one, especially because of the digital arrangements, but Sudeep Jaipurwale’s textured voice adds character to it. Like we said, the songs are not what you hear in a typical Bollywood album, but listen to them on loop and you will start appreciating its nuances.
 
  
  
 
