Mysuru: Taking cognisance of the gravity of altering the unique International Mobile Equipment Identity ( ) number – an act that poses a threat to national security – Mysuru police are exploring options to take stringent action against those indulging in the offence.

 The gravity that police are treating the offence with comes in the wake of two yougnsters being apprehended by Udayagiri cops recently. Police found that the Mysuru duo – Mohammad Shariff and Mohammad Shoaib – were erasing the IMEI to create fake handsets. The duo was using a software to cover up their activities.
 
 Of the 22 mobile phones that the cops seized, the IMEI number of 11 had been erased. Police also confiscated a device that the two youngsters were using to change the IMEI number.
 
 City police commissioner AS Rao told reporters on Tuesday that there was the possibility of these fake devices being used for terrorist activities. “This is a very dangerous situation. We have not booked them under any special Acts yet, but we are exploring options. So far, they have been charged with cheating theft and forgery,” Rao added.
 
 The commissioner told TOI that they would take legal opinions before invoking legislations pertaining to national security. “Also, it becomes very hard to resore the phone to the original owners since we cannot trace the phone if the IMEI number is changed,” he said. 
 
 As many as seven people, including Shoaib and Shariff, have been arrested in July in Mysuru for altering  , with 32 mobile phones worth Rs 3.92 lakh being recovered. Cases have been registered at Nazardbad, Udayagiri and Lakshmipuram stations.
 
 Mobile phone outlets to be inspected
 
 Meanwhile, cops will soon launch a drive to scan devices at outlets selling, and repairing mobile phones. “A team will be constituted under the deputy commissioner of police (crime), and we’ll verify all mobile phone shops in the city. Officers will check the equipment and the software being used, and in the event some suspicious activity is found, such shops will be sealed,” Rao said, adding theft of expensive mobile phones was on the rise in the city.
 
 
