PUNE: From counselling to watching-over allocation, spearheading green corridors and conducting transplants, about 80% of the people involved in the organ-donation process in the city are  .

 Aarti Golkhale of Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC) said, “As many as 30 hospitals in Pune are registered for organ transplant. Of these, 10 to 12 are actively working in   and transplant. About 80% of the staff involved in various processes of organ donation here is women.”
 
 The ZTCC, a registered body with the charity commissioner, is formed by the appropriate authority through a government resolution. There are four ZTCCs in Maharashtra, including Pune, Mumbai, Aurangabad and Nagpur.
 
 “If you look at transplant coordinators in almost all the hospitals here, almost all are women. This is simply because women mainly opt for the Master in Social Work (MSW) course which is a prerequisite to become a transplant coordinator,” Gokhale said.
 
 Gokhale has been overseeing the work of keeping a list of patients in need of organ donation and the eventual allocation of these organs.
 
  “My work starts once a patient is declared brain dead and his/her relatives’ permission is sought for the organ donation. Then I have to go by the waiting list and check the suitable patient who can be a recipient of the organ considering the medical parameters. This sometimes takes hours and needs to be done within the limited time frame as relatives always wish the body be handed over to them in time so that they could carry out last rites,” Gokhale added.
 
 Creating green corridor soon after harvesting the donated organ is extremely crucial. “Even for creating and spearheading green corridors, the main police authorities whom we first intimate are women, including police commissioner   and DCP (traffic) Kalpana Baravkar,” she said.
 
 Jayashree Desai, deputy superintendent of police, Junnar, said, “It’s a challenge to facilitate green corridor during rush hours from 9am to 12pm and 4pm to 7pm. We have ensured organ transport in record time through the green corridors several times in the past.”
 
 Transplant surgeon Vrushali Patil carried out state’s first pancreas transplant in Pune last year. Barring Patil, rest of the transplant surgeons in Pune are men. 
 
 Having said that most physicians and intensivists involved in medical care post-transplant are women at most hospitals in Pune. “After the transplant, recipients needs to be monitored constantly as there are chances of rejection of the transplanted organ by the body,” said transplant physician   of Ruby Hall  .
 
