CHANDIGARH: Even as leaders and volunteers of the Punjab unit of AAP have expressed disbelief over the bribery charge against   supremo  , there is a rising concern over the possibility of "Brand Kejriwal" getting affected, which has been a key factor in making the party a force to reckon with in Punjab, the only state outside Delhi. Absence of a detailed rebuttal by AAP's Delhi leadership didn't help the cause either. 

 The controversy comes at a time when AAP plans to fight the   byelection and also the municipal polls in four key cities of Punjab. AAP's young wing president Harjot Singh Bains said that, "In my last six years of association with Arvind I have seen him through many ups and downs. One thing I am competely sure is that Arvind Kejriwal implies honesty."
 
 While the rebel AAP leaders grabbed the opportunity to demand that Kejriwal should come clean on the allegations, party's state leaders strongly defended Kejriwal. "Whatever votes we got in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections were in the name of Kejriwal. Most candidates owed it to him to have finished second in many constituencies. Since politics is all about perceptions, there is a worry that the smear campaign could erode the party's base in Punjab," added a key AAP leader.
 
 Endorsing the rebuttal of Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, leader of the opposition in Punjab H S   said that, "The allegations against Kejriwal are totally absurd. Not even worth responding to as it is total hearsay. Why media is giving so much importance, everybody knows."
 
 However, there are leaders who candidly admit the need to check the crisis in the party. "There was confusion among the party cadres on Sunday afternoon. The party leadership should have given a detailed clarification to ensure that the propaganda by the rivals did not succeed. Party volunteers are closely following the events in Delhi for their possible impact on the Punjab unit. In fact, party leaders hopeful of getting key positions in the new structure likely to be put in place here too are strategizing accordingly," said an AAP leader, requesting anonymity.
 
 Meanwhile, former Punjab convener of AAP   demanded that Kejriwal should immediately step down as Delhi CM and apologise to the entire nation in view of the serious corruption charges. Former AAP leader Harmilap Singh Grewal, who switched to Chhotepur's Aapna Punjab Party (APP) added that, "Whatever is happening in Delhi is an after effect of what happened in Punjab. Allegations of corruption flew thick and fast during the assembly elections but the party leadership did not pay heed to it. The party's crisis in Delhi will have an impact in Punjab as well."
 
