LUCKNOW: After a   in  ,   Yadav and uncle Shivpal got together for the first time on Thursday for a closed-door meeting to decide the future course of action for the party. The bonhomie between them, however, was missing, giving rise to speculations that their coming together was more of a need of the hour rather than a sign of truce within the Yadav clan.

 The meeting, held at the party headquarters in Lucknow, lasted almost 40 minutes and was attended by senior party leaders   and Ram Gobind Chaudhary as well. It was followed by another meeting of the senior leaders with newly elected party MLAs. Before the meeting started, Shivpal was heading to take a seat among the MLAs but Azam went down to him and took him to the dais where he was seated besides Akhilesh.
 
 Though there was no official word as to what transpired at the closed-door meeting of senior leaders, sources said the issue of shortlisting the candidate for SP’s legislature party leader came up during the discussions. While Azam Khan is believed to have rooted for Shivpal’s name as the leader of SP’s legislature party in the state assembly, Ram Gobind Chaudhary too supported the idea. However, Chaoudhary’s namefor the post, too, is doing the rounds . Shivpal reportedly maintained a studied silence throughout the discussions at both the meetings. 
 
 Pushed to the sidelines by Akhilesh in the battle for control over the party, Shivpal had kept away from most of the government functions after the bitter family feud that came out in the open in September 2016. Once Akhilesh was declared the   chief at January 1 special convention of the party, Shivpal was unceremoniously removed from the post of state president and was kept away from most of the major decisions that the party took in the run up to the 2017 assembly polls. 
 
 He wasn’t given any role in the selection of candidates and his name was dropped from the list of the party’s star campaigners. As a result, he did not campaign and opted to concentrate on Jaswantnagar, from where he won the elections. Once the results were announced, a sulking Shivpal broke his silence describing the party’s drubbing as the defeat of ‘false pride’.
 
 During the recent family reunion at Saifai on Holi, Shivpal preferred to celebrate with his supporters at his Etawah residence even as Akhilesh got together with the rest of the family at the ancestral home in Saifai, 20km away.
 
 
