BHUBANESWAR: Chairperson of   (NHRC) H L Dattu here on Monday expressed concern over  , land acquisition without proper compensation, starvation deaths and women trafficking in the state. 

 Dattu was speaking at the inaugural event of a three-day open hearing of various human rights violations in the state. "It has recently come to the attention of the commission that in Malkangiri district, schools lie in a state of abject neglect, with reports suggesting that nearly 72 primary schools in the district have no infrastructure. This raises serious concerns involving the implementation of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009' ( ) and the  ," Dattu said.
 
 Stating that Malkangiri is also severely affected by Left-wing extremism, Dattu said factors which have contributed to continued Maoist violence include poor socio-economic status of the local population and lack of  . Dattu said the NHRC registered 21,912 cases from Odisha in 2015-16 (up to December 20, 2016).
 
 "The commission notes with concern several instances from within the state of acquisition of land for various development projects without adequate compensation or alternative livelihood support to those displaced from their land. To add to this, there are disturbing allegations of police brutality against protesting villagers and even journalists covering such protests," the NHRC chairperson said.
 
 Mentioning about reports of trafficking of women and girls in Sundargarh district, Dattu said these are indicative of a problem that is not simply related to lack of effective protection for women and girls, but also aspects of poverty, illiteracy, and lack of adequate livelihood opportunities.
 
 "The commission has been deeply concerned about the protection of the rights of girls and women, and in this context we would like to know from the authorities regarding the initiatives taken, particularly with respect to human trafficking, missing women and children, dowry deaths, child marriage as well as efforts towards gender sensitization among police personnel and other public functionaries," Dattu said.
 
 Starvation deaths in the KBK districts have also been of concern to the commission since the time that it first took cognizance of the matter in the 1990s. 
 
