COIMBATORE: Around 100 private and government doctors staged a protest on Friday in front of   (CMCH) demanding the arrest of the people who attacked Ellen Hospital. 

 They alleged that not a single arrest has been made more than 48 hours after the incident, where a chief doctor was attacked and hospital ransacked. The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) and   (IMA) have threatened more protests if culprits are not arrested as early as possible.
 
 A large number of doctors from TNGDA and IMA gathered in front of CMCH to protest against the attack on Ellen Hospitals by a patient's relatives. "Despite there being video evidence of the incident, not a single arrest has been made," said TNGDA president Dr G Ravishankar. "They have physically attacked a senior doctor, hit a nurse and damaged equipment," he said. 
 
 Doctors said the Tamil Nadu government has passed a strict law to protect medical professionals and hospitals, but neither the police nor the public remember the law. "Under the Tamil Nadu Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act, even if a patient or attender raises their voice threateningly or they make too much noise, they have to be arrested," said Dr A K Ravikumar. "It is a non-bailable offence inviting three to 10 years imprisonment," he said. "But we doctors are forced to keep reminding the police of it. They should invoke the act and arrest the people responsible," he added.
 
 The doctors said the increase of such incidents would only end up negatively impacting patients, because hospitals would start refusing emergency and critical cases. "If such incidents continue, hospitals would begin to turn away critical patients fearing backlash," he said. "We have not studied for 26 years to get beaten up by people," he said. 
 
 Ellen Hospitals was ransacked and their chief doctor, Dr A Ramachandran, on Wednesday by relatives of a patient named Pradeep Kumar believing that medical negligence caused his death. However, the hospital alleges that his relatives and friends barging into the intensive care unit immediately after the patient was wheeled in and hitting the doctors not allowing them to treat the patient. 
 
 
