THANE: The civic polls are just around the corner and the election fever is rising across the city. While candidates are going beyond their reach to woo voters, most residents prefer their corporator to have good educational qualifications.

 Academics was the last priority of political parties issuing party nomination during the 2012   in the city. Out of a total of 130 corporators, a shocking 44% had not even cleared SSC and a miniscule 17% were graduates.
 
 A close scrutiny of the affidavits of 118 of the 130 corportors showed near-absence of professionals or those with strong academic background.
 
 Of the 53 corporators elected on a   ticket, 19 were school dropouts, while the tally of those who failed their Class X exams rounded up to 12. A good 13   attended college and studied up to Class XII, while just 11 corporators hold a university degree. One of the Sena corporators had no formal education and was an illiterate.
 
 In contrast, the   had a clear edge over its ally here as six of their eight corporators had cleared their SSC exam and also had a college degree.
 
 The NCP, led by Jitendra Awhad, a management graduate who now holds a doctorate from Mumbai Universty, seemed to have given education a complete neglect while issuing the election form for his supporters.
 
 Of its total tally of 34 corporators, only nine hold a university degree, 10 were school dropouts and two have studied till Class XII. Two of the NCP corporators had not cleared their SSC exam.
 
 The education profile of the 18 corporators from the Congress reveals that only three have cleared class X, one of them was unable to clear his class X and nine others are school dropouts.
 
 A close look at the professions reveal majority of the corporators were builders, labour contractors, estate agents, painting contractors or suppliers of building material.
 
 Of the 65 women corporators in the civic body, 43 are housewives, 11 have declared their occupation as builders, while eight others said they are engaged in the business of supplying building material.
 
 
