PANAJI: The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has been left guessing in Goa’s   as elections to the state assembly concluded on Saturday.
 
  In 2012 when elections were last held, BJP rode to power with a simple majority of their own, thanks largely to their splendid performance in the mining belt as they won five of the six available seats. Victories in Sakhali, Mayem, Sanvordem, Curchorem and Sanguem gave them an all-time high while they lost just Bicholim to independent Naresh Sawal.
  
  This time, mining is no longer an emotive issue in this election, despite the mining ban and its impact on lives in these parts since 2012, providing no indication of what to expect when votes are counted on March 11.
  
  “This time mining is not the only issue and vote is divided in the mining belt. In 2012 assembly election, it was a different situation. Now it’s completely changed,” said  , who was working as officer in a multinational mining company at Bicholim.
  
  Mining has resumed in some parts since it was banned five years ago but it’s completely low-key, unlike the frantic activities in the past. Many thought the ban on mining would be a decisive issue but voters had several other things on their mind as they headed out to vote.
  
  Mahabaleshwar Surlakar, a truck owner from Mayem, said people are upset with the government’s handling of the mining issue but hastened to add that it won’t have any bearing on the overall outcome.
  
  “Unlike the previous election, when the vote was for BJP, this time people in the mining belt are not united. They are not voting for just one particular party. The vote may be for different parties in different constituencies,” said Surlakar.
  
  A similar sentiment was echoed by All Goa Truck Owner Association president Nilkant Gawas, a voter in Sakhali. “No doubt there is resentment in the (mining) belt but those dependent on mining are not speaking in the same voice. They are voting for different parties,” said Gawas.
  
  The state government, it may be recalled, banned mining activities in Goa on September 10, 2012, even before the Supreme Court imposed the ban in October 2012. An order revoking its 2012 decision that halted the over 60-year-old-mining industry in Goa was issued in 2015, paving the way for resumption of mining activities, although on a much lower scale.
 
  In the 2012 elections, BJP rode to power due to their splendid performance in the mining belt.
