COIMBATORE: Thanks to the authorities who plan to remove decades-old encroachments, Vellalore   may finally brim with water during this year’s monsoon.

 The district administration and the slum clearance board are planning to evacuate encroachers near Athupalam by April by providing them alternate housing. District collector TN Hariharan, who convened a meeting with the stakeholders on Tuesday, said the encroachers will be served with served evacuation notices and the houses will be demolished. 
 
 They will be provided alternative housings in Vellalore. “Nearly 6,720 tenements have been constructed and are ready to occupy. A few of them have already been inaugurated. We are hopeful that nearly 40 slums will be evacuated and 960 housing units at Anna Nagar, 224 at Mazhai Nagar, 1,280 at  , 1,440 at Malumichampatti and 2,816 at   will be occupied,” said Rajashekar, executive engineer,  .
 
 “Because of the encroachments, we were unable to clear the garbage dump blocking the canal. Due to this, the Vellalore lake had dried up, thereby depleting groundwater levels in the entire Vellalore panchayat and corporation area,” a PWD official said.
 
 The lake is the only source of water for more than 10,000   in the area. Farmers said that while they were happy to hear the news, they were not sure if the slums would be evacuated. “We have received several promises every year at the grievance day meetings about evacuating encroachers. Also, the canals have not been de-silted so far,” R Ganesh, a farmer, told TOI.
 
 “The canal has been carrying water from the Noyyal anicut to the lake for several centuries. The farmlands, located around the 15km radius of the 315-acre lake, have not received any water from the last decade. We have spent huge amounts to dig borewell as deep as 1,200 feet, only to realise that there was no water even at that depth,” he added.
 
 “There were more than 50,000 farmers in the area two decades ago,” said CV Sashi Kumar, another farmer.
 
 After slums at Kurichi, Kuniyamuthur and Athupalam are evacuated, other slums located at Ganapathy, Peelamedu, R S Puram, Vadavalli, Vellalore and Ondipudur will be removed, sources said.
 
 PWD officials and TNSCB officers said that all the households have been issued notices and a survey had been completed. “Biometric processes have also been completed. We only need to evacuate them and demolish the buildings. We are sure that it will be completed by April,” an official said.
 
