GREATER NOIDA: While police await medical and forensic evidence to confirm gang-rape charges levelled by four women who were in the car that was ambushed last Thursday in Jewar, off the  , what isn’t in doubt is that highway gangs have made road travel, especially at night, a terrifying prospect in these parts.

 Two families living around the Jewar village where the ambush victims are from told TOI on Saturday they too had been victims of robbery and assault on the same Sikandrabad-Bulandshahr road. One of them — a shopkeeper, his wife and their 5-year-old son — was waylaid on a 4km stretch starting from the village (Sabota Mustfabad) where Thursday’s ambush happened. This was on May 5 last year. 
 
 And the modus operandi was the same. The shopkeeper had been made to squat in a field and tied, as was his wife.
 
 Talking about that night rattles him. It was 9.15pm and they were returning to Jewar from Bulandhshar when an axle thrown at the car brought it to a halt. Asked if his wife and child were harmed, he insinuates that his worst fears had come true. “What happened to us was the same what you are hearing in the news. We stayed quiet because we have to hold our position in society,” he said, adding it was their little boy who had united him and his wife. 
 
 “I saved my life by keeping quiet. The more you talk, the more they beat you,” he added. The place this happened was in a village named Ramner, opposite Sabota Mustfabad.
 
 A complaint was lodged at Jewar police station the following day, May 6, following which an FIR was filed for robbery and physical assault. The shopkeeper said he did not report the  , fearing it would bring shame to the family. Sikandrabad-Bulandshahr road branches out of the Yamuna expressway at Sabota Mustfabad, which is in Jewar, towards Bulandshahr. Around 1.30am on Thursday, a gang of six men waylaid a Maruti Eeco here with the help of spikes they had scattered around the road. They dragged its eight passengers, four men and four women, to a nearby field, took away their cash and jewellery and allegedly raped the women. A 38-year-old scrap dealer whose wife, sister and sister-in-law were among those allegedly violated, was shot when he tried to resist the gang. 
 
 The other Jewar family that was ambushed said this happened was on the night of April 4 last year at Naithla Hasanpur village, which is in Bulandshahr district. Five members of a local wheat trader’s family and their driver were returning from Bulandshahr to Jewar when a group of six-seven men stopped them.
 
 A family member said, “My mother, sister (11), elder brother (25), his daughter (two), younger brother (17) and the driver were travelling. Someone threw an axle on the car. When they stopped to check, they were attacked by the group. At least three of the men had guns. They tied all of them and beat them up. My brother did not recover from the pain for months as he was attacked with hammers and rods. My mother pleaded with them to stop as they had already looted them but they said the more they talk the more blows they would land.”
 
 A complaint was lodged for robbery and physical assault at Chola police chowki but no case was filed.
 
 Both families were approached by former SP (rural) Abhishek Yadav in the aftermath of the Bulandshahr gang-rapes of July 29, at Dostpur village in the same region, that shook the country. “We were called to Bulandshahr to identify some criminals they had arrested. We identified three of them. We were later told that one belonged to Rajasthan and four were from villages of Bulandshahr,” said the wheat trader’s brother.
 
 Jewar SHO Rajpal Tomar who joined a few days ago said he was not aware of these crimes. “Since you have brought the matter to our notice, I will seek details and start an inquiry,” he said. “If an incident has happened, all the necessary details would have been recorded,” public relations officer to the Bulandshahr SSP, Muniraj G, told TOI.
 
 Locals say a 4km stretch between two water channels in Sabota and Banwari Bas villages is where most loots and robberies happen. They also say it is not possible for these gangs to keep striking without local support and blame police for being lax in gathering local intelligence. “The nearest police chowki is 7km away while Jewar police station is 3km away. And there is no patrolling,” said Chanderpal Singh of Ramner village.
 
