
 
  This technology extends not only to music lovers, but also copyright holders hoping to safeguard their holdings. So when new songs are uploaded on a site like  , it is easy to detect whether it is copied from a song that already exists on the site.
  
  In the last few weeks, this technology has helped   Music, the owners of Chiranjeevi-starrer Khaidi No. 150, detect nearly 200 uploads on YouTube which had copied the song.
  
  Many fans had copied only the music and attached video of them dancing to it. Even then it falls under copyright infringement. But Lahari did not ask fans to remove them, but only monetised it on behalf of the company.
  
  But when it comes to new films copying old film songs, things are getting a little too tricky.
  
  On January 12, Justice   of the High Court remanded the case between Kirik   producers and Lahari Music back to the trial court for consideration. The case will come up for hearing on February 6.
  
    seems to be in deeper trouble after they released one more song online earlier this week.
  
  The   song’s resemblance to   by 12 The   has become the talk of copyright town.
  
    (Lahari  ) says it is not about making money but having ethics.
  
  “I will give you three examples.   and   called me and sought to use the song from   in their film. I did not say a word and agreed.   called and sought permission to use the song from   (in which he had acted) in a new film he is directing for his daughter. He was ready to pay `20 lakh. I did not take any money and only retained the copyright. We have rights of Telugu and Tamil films too. When they wanted to use a song from Chiranjeevi’s   for his son’s film, they requested and we agreed. Whenever people have asked we have obliged. But when they copy without regard for our rights, we cannot keep quiet,” he said.
  
  Lahari is one of the less than dozen audio companies that survived in south India out of the over 100 companies that were launched. It is one of the oldest companies around with a legacy of nearly four decades.
  
  Lahari took legal action on Kirik Party which is still pending.
  
  “The producer of   used a song from our old film but they paid royalty for it. That is the procedure,” Velu said.
  
  But he denied reports that his company had sent a legal notice to the makers of Hebbuli.
