CHENNAI: A tank that rolled across inhospitable terrain during the two World Wars, a cannon or a machine gun that blitzed enemies in the India-Pakistan War of 1965 can now be viewd in the city. All you have to do is walk or drive up to the ‘museum’ that is scheduled to be opened at the   ( ) in Guindy on February 25.

 OTA Commandant Lieutenant General Bobby Mathews will inaugurate the museum (weapon display area) which now serves as a classroom for cadets set to be commissioned into the Army next month.
 
 Once set up, visitors can gaze with awe on, among others, the Centurion, the legendary British-built tank seated on which many a daring explot has been carried out during World War II. India’s first indigenous tank Vijayanta, 2.75 Inch Mountain Gun (1916), Type 92 Heavy Machine Gun from Japan and 7.2 Inch Howitzer that served in both WWII and Indo-Pakistani War, the L-70 Anti-Aircraft Gun, which is being phased out by the Army, will be among the other attractions.
 
 Weapon Training Officer Major V K Jaswal said school and college students could visit the facility on permission. “The aim of the weapons display is to familiarise cadets and visiting students with the weapons, their specifications, use and history.”
 
 Cadets passing out of OTA will be handling similar arms within six months of being commissioned into the Army. Russian tank T-55, which entered operation just after World War II and is obsolete today, will aslo be on display. “Advanced weapons like the T-90 and T-72 are however manufactured based on older models like T-55,” Jaswal said.
 
 Admiring the weapons on display, OTA cadet Vinay Raina recalled his days during the Kargil War (1999) in Punjab’s Pathankot which served as a forward operation base ) for the Army. “Trains loaded with ammunition, tanks and guns would halt at   (now Pathankot  ) which was very close to my home. I would hear the roar of the MIG-21 fighter aircraft and Mi-35 attack helicopters as they flew over my roof. It was then that I decided that at some point in my life, I would be driving those tanks and firing those guns,” said the 26-year-old.
 
 Raina, who failed the   (SSB) exam 19 times since the age of 19, cleared it last year, just before reaching the age limit. “I had only failed the interview test as my public speaking skills were lacking,” he said. To improve his speaking skills, Raina joined   as an announcer for a musical programme and even tutored school kids. “I have always believed that I have come this far only to scale higher peaks. I have a long way to go.”
 
