INDORE: With the number of underage drivers in the city becoming a concern, transport department authorities issue drivers licences to teenagers to ride gearless two-wheelers with an engine of less than 50cc capacity.

 Automobile makers have stopped producing 50cc vehicles for a while now and teenagers with licences of this category are riding two-wheelers over this capacity right under the nose of transport department authorities, putting their own lives and others’ at risk.
 
 Records available at the regional transport office (RTO) of Indore show that so far the department has issued 34,037 licences under the catoegory ‘Motorcycle without gear less than 50cc’ till now. Interestingly, there are just 370 two-wheelers like   and   that are registered with RTO, while around 3,400 driving licences are issued in this category from the office every year.
 
 “All makers of gearless two-wheelers have already switched to over 90cc vehicles and teenagers have no option but to ride these vehicles. Authorities should look into the issue to ensure everyone’s safety,” said  , an auto dealer from city.
 
 The existing rule says that a person between the ages of 16 and 18 years can ride a gearless bike with an engine capacity of not more than 50cc. “Applicants below 18 years of age are only allowed to ride vehicles below 50cc and get licences for these,” said officials. They added that with no vehicles below 50cc engine available in the market, teenagers have to wait until they turn 18 before they can ride a two-wheeler.
 
 Though transport department officials still cling on to the 50cc regime while issuing licences, there is no check on teenagers between 16 to 18 years of age as most of them ride vehicles that are over 100cc. They said that it is the responsibility of traffic police to stop teenagers from riding vehicles.
 
 Traffic police officials said surprise checks are conducted and heavy fines are levied on teenagers who are found riding two-wheelers because technically they do not hold a licence for the vehicles they drive.
 
 State transport commissioner Dr   said the government is in the process of introducing new amendments in the central motor vehicle rules where this category of licence will be removed. “Soon this particular category of licence will be removed. And there will be a separate clause for teenage riders,” he added.
 
