MUMBAI: In an attempt to bring further relief to the perennial waterlogging problem at Hindmata in Dadar, the BMC plans to instal a mini pumping station in a civic garden at   (W). 

 That’s not all. The BMC also proposes to set up three more   at  ,   and Charni Road—the one at   may come up in a garden on Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Road.
 
 While the six pumping stations already in use across the city have six pumps each, the mini pumping stations will have three each. Civic officials have estimated the cost for each mini pumping station to be over Rs 50 crore and are studying the feasibility of each of them in detail before licking off the project. 
 
 The mini pumping station proposal is part of the revised Brihanmumbai Stormwater Disposal System (Brimstowad) project under which the BMC has built six pumping stations—at Irla in Vile Parle (W), Haji Ali, Lovegrove and Cleveland at Worli, Britannia at Reay Road and Gazarbandh in Santacruz. The BMC is yet to set up pumping stations at Mahul creek and Mogra in Andheri owing to land acquisition issues.
 
 A senior civic official said the mini pumping station at Matunga will alleviate waterlogging issues at Gandhi Market in Sion, while the Dadar mini pumping station proposed at Datta Raul Maidan and provide give relief to Hindmata and nearby areas. While the Britannia pumping station at Reay Road already draws out rainwater from Hindmata, owing to the distance between Reay Road and Dadar, it takes time for the water level to subside. The Mankhurd mini pumping station has been proposed on Mandala Road.
 
 According to sources, work on the four mini pumping stations will be taken up only after all eight pumping stations under the   are completed. “We have been working on augmentation of drains as well as construction of pumping stations. The mini pumping stations are expected to further help make the city flood-free,” said Laxman Vhatkar, chief civic engineer, storm water drains. 
 
 BMC chief Ajoy Mehta said sanction for an additional drain pipeline had been given for Hindmata, therefore work on tackling waterlogging there is being taken up on priority.
 
 
