NASHIK: The recent appointment of security personnel at the banks of   in Panchavati to check pollution and slap spot fines on polluters, is gradually giving the area a cleaner look. However, the only concern of local residents is the consistency of the drive.

 The   (NMC) conducted awareness drive on the river bank from April 1 to April 3 and began slapping fines from April 4. Security personnel are deployed from Ramkund to  .
 
 On April 4, two women were fined Rs 1,000 each for washing clothes, while the following day a man from another city was fined for washing his clothes.
 
 “Currently, the river bank looks clean but this drive should continue. Along with this drive the NMC should keep cleaning the area continuously. We have not seen them clean the area for a long time,” said PL Deshmukh, a citizen.
 
  welcomed the initiative but has some suggestions to keep the river and its banks clean.
 
 “It is a good initiative. There are uniformed men to keep a check on pollution. Washing clothes, vehicles, using soap and littering have been prohibited and the place is looking cleaner. This should continue. Also, along with this the NMC should keep the river flowing continuously. Moreover, there are beggars by the banks who eat there and litter. They should be directed to shelter homes near  ,” said Satish Shukla, president of the Purohit Sangh.
 
 “The impact of the fine has been very helpful. We have appointed 50 security personnel who work in three shifts. We had to fine people only for the first two days. The presence of security personnel has created fear among people. We have also published requirement for retired army personnel for this task who would be paid by the NMC. Once the number of security personnel increases we can cover longer patch,” said deputy municipal commissioner and in-charge of NMC’s Godavari Conservation Cell, Rohidas Dorkulkar.
 
 He said that collecting fine was not the aim but to make people aware and keep the river and its banks clean.
 
