NAGPUR: Children’s fun today may turn into a crime tomorrow as lookalike currency notes of Rs2,000, Rs500 and other denominations seem to have inundated the toy market across the city. Though no misuse has been reported, last month’s incident in New Delhi where an ATM dispensed a Rs2,000 note of ‘Children Bank of India’ should serve as a cautionary tale for the city as well.

 Mostly toy and such paraphernalia shops from   are the biggest vendors of such currency notes, which an insider said to be a sound business now. Toy shops at Jaripatka, Central Avenue and other places like Mahal too are known to be selling such currencies. Based on the quality, the prices varies from Rs25 for a bundle of 100 to even up to Rs50 for the plastic-coated ones.
 
 According to a senior official of banking sector, these currency notes are not illegal as they replace the word ‘Rupees’ with ‘Points’. “Basically, there is no law to prevent circulation of such currency meant for playing. Perhaps the printers are liable for action for misusing the national emblem and symbol by printing them on these notes,” said the senior official. The official stated that until there is a complaint of rampant misuse, the RBI generally do not intervene. “Even if it wants to, RBI shall take help of enforcing agencies like police to curb action,” said the senior official.
 
 A section of the cops, though helpless in absence of a direct law to curb the practice of selling and using such notes, said many times tricksters may use them as a tool to con others. “Uneducated labourers or wage earners are the most vulnerable segment who can be tricked with such notes. Also gamblers may, at times, trick people with these notes and visitors of orchestra bars may often flung these currencies to please the women,” said a senior cop. 
 
 It was reliably learnt that Delhi and Mumbai-based transporters are the suppliers who bring these currencies to the city shops. A source in Itwari said that the shopkeepers seem to have become conscious about the wrong practices which can take place with the help of these currency notes. “Some shopkeepers are also feeling insecure to openly sell or trade in with these currency notes after the incident in Delhi fearing a raid or police action,” he said.
 
 This undercover TOI scribe too was questioned about his intention of having too many queries by a shopkeeper when some details were sought from him. The shopkeeper withdrew into his shell as TOI tried to dig deeper into the source of the currency notes. “Transporters lata hain. Notes garage se ata hain,” (Transporters bring the notes to us. The notes are stored in garages) said a shopkeeper to TOI’s undercover scribe. 
 
 In the city too, TOI has learnt that a woman tried to use one such note — intentionally or otherwise — at a bakery in Sadar in the past. 
 
 An Itwari-based shopkeeper, speaking to an undercover TOI scribe, said schoolgoing children are his biggest customers as some schools have been using teaching methodology to use these notes to teach arithmetic and also for other curricular activities. The fact was also admitted by a sources from the school education sector. “Such plastic coated fake currency notes are mostly used in state board schools to teach students using them as a tool for making the learning a fun experience,” said a source.
 
 A housewife, who too was purchasing such notes from an Itwari shop, said that she was purchasing such notes for giving them out as return gifts to children at a birthday party.
 
 Now the district’s school education department is planning to issue an advisory, asking principals to be careful when purchasing materials from the market.  , district education officer said, “State government has sent a circular earlier authorizing the use of plastic currency and plastic coins to teach young kids. The keyword is ‘plastic’, so schools have to be careful and not purchase any toy money if it is made of paper, as that could lead to problems.” 
 
 Zaffar Khan, a senior principal and founding member of Nagpur Headmasters Roundtable Charitable Trust said, “We take extreme care and the toy money being used in schools is over a year or more old, when these new Rs500 and Rs2000 notes did not exist. As far as we know, absolutely nobody is using these latest notes in the market.”
 
 Former state police chief   said that there is no law to stop such notes at toy shops. “Police cannot stop it legally or initiate an action but the situation of printing lookalike currency seems to be improper. There should be an amendment to the existing law of printing currencies stating that the colour should not be same at the very least,” he said.
 
 City police chief K Venkatesh too said that passing of these fakes as original will attract criminal charges. “People are advised to be aware of the legal positions while using or playing with these fakes,” he said.
 
 Senior PI Santosh Khandekar of Tehsil police station said he would check the information about the availability of such notes at some toy shops at Itwari within his jurisdiction.
 
