DEHRADUN: Tourism forms the economic backbone of Uttarakhand. Keeping this fact in mind,  , the new minister of tourism, said in a conversation with TOI that his focus will be to   for religious, adventure,  . He added that his ministry will work on the concept of 'places to visit before you die' within the state as well as bring in the theme of 'underwater tourism' by opening up places like Tehri lake which also has a submerged palace which tourists can visit. Excerpts: 

  What will be your priorities as tourism minister? 
 
  Uttarakhand is known for its religious and adventure tourism. That will continue to be the thrust, along with yoga and medical tourism. We are also exploring possibilities of underwater tourism. Tehri fort and Clock tower are two structures which got submerged when the lake was formed. If we can come up with the concept of taking people in a small submarine and show them these places, it is likely to be a big hit especially among adventure enthusiasts. Further, we will develop many places in the higher reaches of the state as winter destinations. I also want to work on the concept of 'places to visit before you die' within the state. Everyone is aware of char dham, but not many outside the state are aware of the other exotic destinations like Chopta that Uttarakhand has to offer. 
 
  Despite being the state's mainstay, tourism has not really picked up as it should have. What do you think are the reasons? 
 
  Tourism has suffered for the simple fact that there was no vision in place. Neither have different opportunities been explored nor have proper studies been carried out to find new ways to draw the attention of people from within the country and abroad. Also, road connectivity to the prominent tourist places have not been improved nor have facilities been strengthened. As a result of this, the sector took a dip. Even though funds were there, they were not used in the right direction. 
 
  Are any new circuits being planned? 
 
  Yes, the Mahabharata circuit is there. The Pandavas had spent a large part of their exile in areas which are now under Uttarakhand. There is Lakhamandal which is not very far from Dehradun. It is believed that this was the place where a 'lakshya-griha' existed and where an effort was made to set the Pandavas on fire. Then there is the Jakhol area of Uttarkashi which has a temple dedicated to Duryodhana. We can look towards creating special attractions in these areas, like creating an artificial 'lakshya-griha' so that people can get an idea of what night have happened in that era. Similarly, we will set up more circuits and have their brochures kept in hotels and other tourist places so that visitors can plan their trip. 
 
  You also hold charge of the irrigation department. How do you plan to improve the irrigation and drinking water facilities in the hills? 
 
  I am extremely fortunate that on my first day of taking charge,   has given Uttarakhand the ownership rights of 28 canals and I want to thank UP CM   for it. As for the hills, we will be using poly-plastic pipes for irrigation and drinking water . Till now, the water passes through kuccha drains but now we want to provide people clean water using these pipes. 
 
 
