PUNE: A group of scientists of Research and Development Establishment (Engineers) of Defence Research and Development Organisation has developed two new robots capable of detecting and defusing improvised explosive devices on aircraft and trains.

 An outcome of two years of extensive research, the Defence Research and Development Organisation ( ) scientists claimed these light robots — “Daksh Mini” and “Daksh Scout” were easy to carry and use in any situation.
 
 Confirming the development, Director-General (DG), Armament and Combat Engineering (ACE) cluster, P K Mehta, said, “These robots can become a decisive factor for the security agencies and forces in the near future.”
 
 The two new robots are continuation of the Daksh robot series.   has been using Daksh robot, developed by the laboratory a few years ago, for its operations.
 
  is a remotely operated vehicle capable of detecting, handling and defusing IEDs and other suspect objects.
 
 “It is always challenging and a high risk task for the security personnel to operate in confined spaces. In such a situation, Daksh Mini can be used for detection and defusing IEDs, reducing direct involvement of the personnel,” a source from the laboratory said.
 
 Daksh Mini is equipped with six axis telescopic manipulator arm with high resolution cameras. “Besides, the robot’s modular flipper-based design enables it to overcome obstacles and climb stairs,” the source added.
 
 Daksh Scout robot is also a remotely operated vehicle and capable of silent surveillance in day and night. It is portable and capable of being deployed in cross country areas and confined spaces like within culverts.
 
 “Since it can be operated from a distance of 200m, it will be useful for surveillance operations,” the source added.
 
 Both the robots are indigenously developed. Hence, it will be cost-effective. The in-house trials of the robots have been positive and have met all the desired results so far.
 
 A top DRDO source from New Delhi told TOI, “The National Security Guard (NSG) has shown its interest in both the robots. At present, the   is carrying trials on the robots,” he added.
 
