SURAT: Surat municipal commissioner M Thennarasan presented Rs 5,638 crore budget for the year 2017-18 on Wednesday, sparing citizens of any hike in the property tax and other user charges. 

 The focus area of the budget in this election year is to improve the quality of life, promote skill development, e-education,  , green coverage and special planning for traffic and parking issues in the city. 
 
 A special provision has been made to allocate Rs 278 crore for the   (SSCDL) for taking up smart initiatives under the ‘Smart Cities’ mission of the Government of India. 
 
 Among the capital works to be taken up in 2017-18, the SMC has allotted the maximum of Rs 492 crore for town planning followed by Rs 447 crore for housing and EWS, Rs 387 crore for drainage and storm drainage, Rs 348 crore for road development, Rs 296 crore for bridge construction and Rs 112 crore for urban transportation among others. 
 
 SMC has started a new department of transport and mobility to show its intent to provide effective mass transportation to the people of the city. The Metro Rail project announced by the   has been include in the transport and mobility department for the development of 40 km route along with the planning of 38 stations in the first phase. 
 
 For mass transportation, the civic body has proposed 42 km of ‘High Mobility Corridor’. At present, around 116 BRT buses and 75 city buses are running on 13 routes in the city. The civic body will purchase 50 more BRT buses and 200 city buses for increasing mobility. 
 
 In the draft budget, the SMC has proposed Rs 112.25 crore for the development of second phase of BRTS network in the city. 
 
 For the first time, the civic body plans to introduce parking permit system for the car owners by framing parking by-laws and policy. Around 100 traffic marshals will be appointed to take care of the parking and other related activities on the roads demarcated by the civic body. The draft budget has proposed construction of two bridge over Tapi river connecting Ved Road and Variav at Rs 125 crore and another bridge connecting Varachha water works with   house at the cost of Rs 149 crore. Two fly-over bridges including one at Puna junction connecting Surat-Bardoli at Rs 43.58 crore, another bridge at Ved Darwaja junction at Ring Road at Rs 51.76 crore. 
 
 Municipal Commissioner, M Thennarasan said, “This year, we have not proposed any hike in property tax and other users charges. Our focus area is traffic and parking management, smart city development, digital Surat and providing quality life to the denizens”
 
 
