JAIPUR: Following the   directions, the state government will initiate a massive drive to remove encroachments from national highways, footpaths and government lands.

 In Jaipur, the drive will begin from July 10. In a meeting, organised to discuss implementation of Master Plan 2025, the urban development and housing ( ) minister   directed the development authorities, local bodies of the state to start the drive with immediate effect.
 
 During the meeting, officials of civic bodies showed helplessness to start the drive in absence of adequate police support. The minister assured, soon a meeting will be fixed with directorate general (DG) of police and deployment will be provided.
 
 The mayors and commissioners of Jaipur, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Ajmer and Kota discussed the action plan to remove the encroachments in their respective cities. It was also informed, Jaipur mayor Ashok Lahoti also came down heavily on officials for shielding and promoting illegal construction.
 
 “The state government has to submit a compliance report in the High Court. A meeting was called to start the drive and implement the orders,” said sources present in the meeting.
 
 Recently, state government received a rap from the Rajasthan High Court for failing to file compliance report on its detailed directions given on January 12 to civic bodies about maintaining the sanctity of master plans of cities across Rajasthan. It was argued by the petitioner that government has devised it own ways to violate the master plan. and it is regularizing the encroachments, manipulating with the widths of the roads to promote illegal constructions and commercialization permissions.
 
 After local bodies highlighted many inadequacies in the existing master plans , the minister assured soon call a review meeting. Sources said, rights will be provided to civic bodies to amend master plans as per the requirement.
 
 “In the JDA’s meeting, the minister had already directed changes will be made in the master plan. Following the orders was also issued by the directorate of local bodies. However, before issuing proper guidelines and detailed orders a meeting is called by the minister, next week,” added source.
 
 
