Nagpur: CBSE’s Std X school-based exam is signing off this year with a bang. With 46.86% of total students in Std X opting for school-based exam there is definitely no question about its popularity on a pan-India basis even though 2017 is its swan song. The school-based exam, introduced mainly to reduce the pressures that a traditional   comes with, has 7.81 lakh students appearing this year out of the total 16.67 lakh who registered.

 The Std X & XII board-based exam begin on Thursday while the school-based exam (only for Std X) kicks-off from March 15. In Chennai region, under whose jurisdiction all   schools in Maharashtra come, has 1.78 lakh students appearing for Std X and 59,014 appearing for Std XII. 
 
 The decision to drop the Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) system, of which school-based exam was a part, was taken by the central government after feedback from various stakeholders. The HRD ministry decided to implement the change from 2017 academic session. 
 
 Many city schools however have mixed feelings about the CCE system being phased out. Reena Dargan, principal of Ira International has another reason to feel strongly about CCE. Her elder daughter was part of the first batch of CCE and the younger one is now part of the last. “As a parent I have witnessed the entire life cycle of CCE closely and there were definately lot of bright spots there. CCE offered everyone a chance to learn in different ways, giving importance to different intelligence. Now we will be back to chalk and talk method where interactivity will not be present so much,” she said. 
 
 Sumathi Venugopalan, principal of Centre Point School (Wardhaman Nagar), too has a son appearing for the Std X exam and feels that the change could have been delayed by a year. “My concern is for students currently studying in Std IX as they have been moulded in the CCE pattern for last six years hence it won’t be very easy for them to shift gears suddenly. Even schools had adapted themselves under CCE so there was definately a buffer needed to adjust,” she said.
 
 While the popularity of school-based exam at the national level is clearly evident, the statistics tell a different story when looked at region-wise. Currently CBSE administers all affiliated schools through 10 regional offices, with Nagpur coming under the Chennai region. Here there’s a huge disparity when it comes to preference of students as 1.54 lakh registered for board-based exam while only 24,153 opted for the school-based version. The other regional office located in south, Thiruvananthapuram, the same pattern is repeated. Only 5,624 students opted for the school-based exam compared to 66,664 who chose to appear for the board-based test. 
 
 In the northen part of India, it’s just the opposite. Under Delhi region 2.38 lakh students opted for school-based exam as compared to 1.33 lakh for board-based. In Allahabad, 1.11 lakh students opted for school-based test as compared to 65,027 who chose board-based. Panchkula was no different with 1.30 lakh students choosing school-based exam whereas 1.10 lakh preferring board-based test. 
 
 
