LUCKNOW: She might be in her political opponent’s crosshairs for amassing immense wealth but BSP boss Mayawati’s namesake and   from Koraon assembly constituency in Allahabad is one of the poorest amongst all those contesting in the fourth phase of UP assembly   for which polling will be held on February 23.

 This   does not own any immovable asset and barely has Rs 2,000 as movable asset, according to the ADR report released on Saturday. Only Kailash and Indrakar Mishra, who are contesting on Rashtriya Viklang Party and Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) respectively, are poorer than her. While Kailash owns only Rs 1,000 as movable asset, Mishra has declared zero assets in his self sworn affidavits. 
 
 According to the report, the richest candidate in the fray is Subhash Chandra who is contesting as an Independent from Chail assembly constituency in Kaushambi. Chandra has total assets worth Rs 70 crore, of which immovable assets account for over Rs 67 crore. Former BSP MLA Nand Gopal Nadi, who is now contesting from Allahabad south assembly seat, comes next. His total assets are worth over Rs 57 crore, half of which is immovable. 
 
 Nandi also carries a financial liability of over Rs 26 crore, which is the highest amongst all candidates. Another BJP leader, Siddharth Nath Singh, who is contesting from Allahabad west assembly constituency, also has a liability of Rs 9 crore. 
 
 The ADR report shows that there are 64 candidates in the fray who own assets worth Rs 5 crore and more. In all, out of 680 candidates in the fourth phase, 189 (28%) are crorepatis. Party wise, BSP tops the list in having the maximum number of crorepatis — 45 BSP candidates have assets worth Rs 1 crore or more. 
 
 The BSP is followed by the BJP which has 36 such candidates. The SP and the INC come in next with 26 and 17 crorepati candidates in the fray. The Ajit Singh led-RLD has also fielded six candidates having assets worth Rs 1 crores or more. Of the total 200 independent candidates who are trying their luck in this phase 25 are crorepati.
 
 
