The new generation of Sikh diaspora perhaps deserve more credit than they receive for preserving their traditions in a new world. Shining a light on them is the new documentary, “Turban Legends“ by Ana Tiwary. Based in Sydney, Australia, Tiwary has been there for 10 years, and runs a production company,  .

 On what gave her this idea, Tiwary said, “Sikhs have been migrating to Australia since the early 1800s and have contributed in many ways over generations. But, their stories are missing from Australian media and I was keen to make a documentary that was from the point of view of young  . Also, post-911, attacks on Sikhs and gurdwaras have risen and it is important to create more awareness about  , the   and its significance for Sikhs.“
 
 Tiwary says she has featured four inspiring young Australian Sikhs from diverse fields. L-FRESH the LION is a hip-hop artist, Sukhjit Kaur Khalsa is a slam poet, Sahibajot Kaur is an architecture student and Gurinder Sandhu is a cricket star. All four have interesting views on their Australian identity as well as their faith and culture. As youth leaders, they are empowering the next generation and are an inspi ration to the wider Australian society.
 
 The wider Australian society plays a large part in “Turban Legends“, with the film being telecast on national Australian television. Tiwary acknowledges the sig nificance of this. “It is very rare for documentaries from the point of view of a minority community to reach mainstream audiences. To create social cohesion, it is important that different communities understand each other.They are a powerful way to give a voice to the marginalised, and debunk myths and stereotypes. Most people in Australia don't know anything about Sikhs, therefore it was important to present “Turban Legends“ on ABC TV, which is the national broadcaster in Australia. It was televised on ABC TV Compass on June 10 and got very high ratings and was also the most shared on social media. Hopefully it will help in creating more understanding about Sikhs, their history , values and faith“.
 
 Tiwary goes on to mention that many Aus tralian schools have even gone on to screen it for their students in an ef fort to reduce bullying and further racial understanding. The positivity can be seen in feedback. Viewer Akaal Fauj commented, “Thank you so much for making ' ' not only for the Sikh community but for society by opening up dialogue, sharing people's stories and doing so with such passion, depth and a r e a l ye a r n i n g f o r t h e wtruth. You have shown us the positive power of media in fostering understanding, harmony and relationships through the communication of the values of humanity and goodwill.“
 
 
