RANCHI:   chief minister   on Saturday took a dig at his counterpart in   for ignoring public-sector industries and the rights of the indigenous people. 

 Sarkar was in the city along with   politburo member   to address a public gathering. 
 
 Sarkar said that although both the states have presence of ethnic groups and face the problems of extremism, Tripura leads the country in the implementation of people-friendly schemes like MGNREGA, food security and forest rights act.
 
 Sarkar cited achievements of the Left-front government in the northeastern state where ethnic violence and separatist activities had been at peak in the past. “We revoked the Armed Forces Special Power Act (AFSPA) from the state and have involved locals in forming ‘janavikas sangathan’ to encourage their participation in the development of the state,” he said.
 
 He stressed that democratic rights of people must be upheld for the prosperity of the state. 
 
 “Jharkhand is rich in mineral resources but when the state government organised Momentum Jharkhand it focussed on private sectors instead of showcasing successful PSUs like HEC, that has made launching pad for the ISRO,” Sarkar said. He gave example of Tripura, where joint ventures between the government and PSUs have provided fillip to the power sector.
 
 Sarkar said that the difference between tribal and non-tribal community has disappeared in Tripura. “Tripura has 99.8% literacy and topped the list of states in the implementation of Forest Rights Act. We have generated maximum number of man-days under the MGNREGA and successfully implemented food security act,” he said, blaming both UPA and NDA governments at Centre for neglecting Tripura on fund allocation.
 
 Karat in her speech criticised the government for its move to amend the Chhotanagpur Tenancy Act and Santhal Pargana Tenancy Act. 
 
 “Tribal rights have continuously been undermined in state. It is also evident from the fact that their share was diluted when government announced policy for the locals and preference to them in grade III and IV jobs,” she said. 
 
