 received widespread accolade for her performance in ' ' and the actress says post the success of the film, she is not willing to take up just any project as it might dilute the effect of her last movie. 

 'Dangal', which was a wrestling drama based on the life of Mahavir Singh Phogat (Aamir Khan) and his two wrestler daughters - Geeta and Babita - saw Sakshi play the role of the matriarch of the family, Daya Kaur.
 
  
  
 
 When asked if there has been a barrage of offers after 'Dangal' Sakshi says, "There are offers that I am considering. But after doing 'Dangal', I don't want to do anything that can dilute that effect. I am happy to maintain that for the time being." 
 
 The actress is making her web-series debut with 'Karrle Tu Bhi Mohabbat'. Sakshi says she had signed on to do the series before the release of 'Dangal'. 
 
 "It was in the pipeline much before 'Dangal' got released. I have never done more than one thing at a time. After 'Kahaani Ghar Ghar Kii', I took a three years break and after 'Bade Achhe Lagte Hain' I took a two and half years break. Honestly, currently I am on my break period but since it was a prior commitment, I am honouring it." 
 
 The actress says she is excited to try her hands in the digital space as she has always tries to experiment with her work. 
 
 "I am happy doing this. This is a new medium, new territory, this is an experiment and I want to do it." 
 
 In 'Karrle Tu Bhi Mohabbat', which is a love story about two people, who are opposite of each other but eventually fall in love, Sakshi is reuniting with her 'Bade Acche' co-star  . 
 
 The actress says in real life, both of them are poles apart and that helps in giving life to their on-screen characters. 
 
 "Not only the characters that we have portrayed, but the people that Ram and I are -- we are poles apart. We think differently. So, that translates very well into the characters that we have been given to portray. It's that typical thing that you see in our show -- opposites attract," Sakshi says.
 
 
