PATNA: Strange as it may seem, but only 41 MBBS doctors engaged in private practice in the state have so far registered with the   (PMSMA) to voluntarily ‘provide special antenatal care (ANC) services’ to pregnant women to reduce maternal mortality rate (MMR) and infant mortality rate (IMR).

 PM   had launched the PMSMA on June 9 last year. “I urge all my doctor friends to volunteer and provide special ANC services to pregnant women in government hospitals free of charge on the ninth of every month,” PM had appealed to them. The doctors willing to volunteer are to register online on www.pmsma.nhp.gov.in.
 
 The maternal health wing of Bihar State Health Society (BSHS) is entrusted to put in place and implement the programmes related to maternal health care under national health mission (NHM). State programme officer (SPO) for maternal health Dr   said, “Not so enthusiastic response of the private MBBS doctors to PMSMA could be due to lack of sufficient information about the ongoing campaign among them.” 
 
 Out of the 41 doctors, 13 are from Patna. The other doctors are from Aurangabad (1), Begusarai (3), Bhagalpur (1), Bhojpur (2), Jamui (2), Jehanabad (3), Katihar (5), Lakhisarai (1), Madhubani (2), Munger (1), Muzaffarpur (2), Saharsa (1), Saran (2), Sheohar (1) and Siwan (1).
 
 Incidentally, the number of private doctors registered with PMSMA in other states is far more than in Bihar — 595 in Madhya Pradesh, 346 in Uttar Pradesh, 264 in Maharashtra, 247 in Gujarat and 231 in Rajasthan, among others.
 
 While registering on the site, the doctors concerned have to also indicate the state, district and government hospital where they want to render the services. The civil surgeon concerned has to facilitate his visit to the health centre. The number of patients they treat and the number of hours they give at the hospital on the day would be listed against their names. The doctors who treat maximum number of patients and give maximum number of hours on the all-India basis would get prizes, apart from mention in the Hall of Fame. 
 
 Otherwise, the government doctors have been providing ANC services to pregnant women turning up at primary health centres (PHCs) on the ninth date of every month, Dr Jha said. After registration, they are medically attended to and medicines are also provided.
 
 “Our aim is to infuse confidence among pregnant women (and their families concerned) that government hospitals are committed to and capable of providing required ANC services to pregnant women. Besides, we also want them to come to government hospitals for the required care and safe institutional delivery,” Dr Jha said.
 
 Over the last eight months since the launch of PMSMA, Bihar has so far organized 592 such events, which is considered appreciable, as the all-India figure in this regard is 10,717.
 
 
