NAGPUR: Through city-based  , it has now become possible to virtually tour a location without being present there. With the product named ‘imagyn vr,’ the startup offers virtual tours, which are being used by the hospitality industry as well as   of the region to let customers experience their premises. The startup has now started creating virtual tours of real estate, and the founders say that is the first initiative of its kind in Central India.

 Co-founder Gaurav Totla (25) said, “Marketing had become too monotonous. Photographs and videos were the only tools people were using to sell products. Using this technology, we are taking clients to a particular place without really taking them there.”
 
 Apart from Totla, who is from Aurangabad, the startup was founded by Preetam Dhengle (28) and Quais Husain (32), both Nagpurians, and   (29) from Orissa. The four belonged to the 2015 batch of   where they met for the first time.
 
 The virtual tours can be accessed by a gyroscope-enabled cell phone. One can insert the phone in a virtual reality headset to take a 360-degree tour of any structure. Holding the view steady for five seconds on a door enables the viewer to virtually enter the next section of the structure. Currently, the startup is working on making its own customized headset, and they plan to give it to their client on a complimentary basis.
 
 Lemon school director Deepak Menaria said, “As the interest of the four owners aligned at Lemon school, they started working on visualization, explored the field of animation and videogames and ended up on making virtual tours during October 2016.” The product entered the market in January this year.
 
 Their clients come from diverse fields like hotels and resorts, educational institutions and real-estate developers. They have started getting clients from other states too. The owners are now working on a platform in which a layman can create their own virtual tour.
 
 Dhengle said, “Since we have started getting clients from different states, we have thought of creating a platform using which people could shoot videos and create similar tours on that platform. We will give free workshops on using the platform. People can have couple of free trials and then we may start charging them.”
 
