Kolkata: The next conflict with China will not be along India’s northern borders but in the Bay of Bengal or Andamans Sea, Vice Admiral (retd) P K Chatterjee, former commander-in-chief, Andaman & Nicobar Command, said in Kolkata on Monday.

 Speaking during a workshop by Observer Research Foundation (ORF), he said the gap between the Indian and Chinese navies continues to increase and India’s maritime security is at stake. 
 
 The Chinese will run into tough opposition if they attempt an attack across the northern borders, Vice Admiral Chatterjee said. “I can vouch that they will attack in the Bay of Bengal and Andamans Sea region. China’s energy security is the key and they are paranoid. We have to prepare. Warships can’t be purchased off the shelves. If we want maritime security 30 years hence, work has to start now. Our mindset must change,” he added.
 
 At the end of the first day of the workshop, the general view was India would have to maintain a fine balance between diplomacy and military muscle to improve maritime connectivity in the Bay of Bengal. While ties with littorals will have to improve, maritime security is crucial for better connectivity. 
 
 “There have been rapid changes in the security context in the Indian Ocean and the Bay of Bengal due to influence of countries like the US, Australia and Japan. China is attempting to develop links with countries like Myanmar and Bangladesh through capacity funding,” said Vice Admiral HCS Bisht, flag officer commanding-in-chief, Eastern Naval Command. 
 
 “US activity in the region has ensured that littorals don’t come under China’s dominance,” he adde. “With US assistance, our neighbours are trying to leverage their geo-strategic positions without infringing on India’s strategic interests. Indo-US ties, particularly in areas like disaster relief, search and rescue and anti-piracy operations will help develop stability in the region. As a short term measure, the key will be on cooperation rather than destructive competition and India has to play a leading role by ensuring trust and transparency.” 
 
 P K Ghosh, former senior fellow, ORF, was critical about India’s delay in displaying any interest in the Bay of Bengal. According to him, China’s energy dependency of 76% and development of the Yunnan province has prompted Beijing to show keen interest in the Bay of Bengal. 
 
 While former diplomat Pinak R Chakravarty and G Padmaja, regional director, National Maritime Foundation, Visakhapatnam, were in favour of diplomacy and better communications to improve connectivity, there was consensus on development of the Andamans.
 
 “The Andamans can be developed into a transhipment hub. At one point of time, there was thought of developing the Andamans as a hub for commerce on the lines of Singapore,” Vice Admiral Bisht said. 
 
 According to Vice Admiral Chatterjee, the Andamans can produce five to six Phukets but there is an external force trying hard to ensure that the archipelago doesn’t develop.
 
 
