HYDERABAD: The Adibhatla police arrested a   leader for allegedly stabbing a man who had been earlier arrested for sexually exploiting the former's daughter. The incident took place at Mitra bar in Turkayamzal on Monday night.

 G Rajesh, 32, who headed the management committee of Hanuman temple in LB Nagar, was stabbed to death by Shyam Sundar Reddy, a TRS leader from Saidabad, the police said. Shyam Sundar Reddy was accompanied by four of his associates.
 
 Monday's attack on Rajesh had its roots in a case in which he was arrested by Chaitanyapuri police in March 2015 on charges of kidnapping and raping Shyam Sundar Reddy's 23-year-old daughter, the late  . In her complaint, Anusha, who used to run a boutique at LB Nagar, alleged that Rajesh had sexually exploited her by claiming to be unmarried. Rajesh married Anusha at the Hanuman temple in LB Nagar in 2014. After realising that she was duped, Anusha began avoiding Rajesh. Based on Anusha's complaint, Rajesh was arrested in March 2015 but was out on bail a few days later.
 
 Upset with this development, Anusha had ended her life by jumping into   when the family members took her there on a picnic in the same month.
 
 In all, Rajesh had 10 criminal cases registered against him at Hayathnagar police station, mostly for duping people. After Anusha's death, he was booked under the Preventive Detention (PD) Act and sent to jail for one year. He was released from prison in June 2016. “Shyam Sundar Reddy has been waiting to take revenge for his daughter's death,“ Ibrahimpatnam ACP S Malla Reddy said. On Monday night, Rajesh and his friend Yugandhar were at the bar.When Rajesh was about to leave the place, Shyam Sundar and his associates reportedly attacked him with knives.“Rajesh died on the spot with multiple stab wounds. Before Yugandhar could react, the assailants fled the scene,“ the ACP said.
 
 Police took Shyam Sundar and his associates into custody and a murder case was registered against them under section 302 of the IPC.
 
