Members of Nagpur for Kids club had an exciting first-hand experience of chocolate- making at a workshop organized by   Art at Comrade Activity Zone on Monday. The workshop was conducted by Rajshree Sonak, owner, Chocolate Art.

 Aiming to introduce the concept of chocolate and behind the stall functioning, the workshop focused on history, prosperity along with merits and demerits of chocolate.
 
 The workshop was an interactive cum activity based session divided into two parts. The first session was a demonstration while the second session focussed on chocolate making.
 
 Sonak said, “When one learns to prepare chocolate at home, worrying about its hygiene and ill effects is reduced to zero. One can treat oneself and family members if the art of chocolate making is known to them.”
 
 Sonak emphasized that the workshop was designed to teach various types of Indian and foreign chocolates and different ingredients required to make them. She claimed culinary activity as such helps children to explore and makes them passionate about these activities. She added that interactive skills and confidence of the children will increase due to such group activities.
 
 NFK member Krish Yadav explained the history of chocolate, describing how the Portuguese and Brazilians brought chocolate into our lives.
 
 The demonstration session included an explanation of the entire process of making chocolates using various ingredients and equipment like microwave and refrigerator. Different shapes of chocolate were shown which brought excitement and smiles on the faces of all. Children discussed about ingredients of chocolate like choco powder, milk powder, additive and hwo to make advanced stuff like caramel etc.
 
 It was followed by an activity wherein children were divided into groups and prepared chocolate. Filling the tray with hot chocolate increased the excitement of children. Everyone was given the chocolate which they made and the children were also demonstrated the various chocolate wrapping techniques. 
 
 Ashish Warabashiwar, a parent told TOI, “Children get to have experiences which we never had when we were small. Such workshops will help them to know the various career options they have and will be able to decide appropriately.”
 
 To round it off, Sonak added in the end,” Helping yourself to chocolate helps reduce stress and calm down and we also think better.”
 
 (Reporting by Praveen Tewari)
 
 
