AHMEDABAD: Eleven beagles, kept in a laboratory in Vadodara from the time they were 45 days old and used in clinical trials to test drugs, were slated for euthanization after they outgrew their usefulness to the laboratory owners. However, five dog lovers from Ahmedabad stepped in and took custody of the dogs, each of which is 6-7 years old. Now, the beagles have been put up in a shelter in Sanand, while the volunteers Richa Singh Choudhury, Himani Mod, Swati Verma,   and   are working hard to find families to adopt the dogs.

 “I was asked to pick up these pedigree dogs on Monday, else they would have been euthanized,“ said Choudhury. “Since I've prveiously adopted a laboratory-released beagle from Bengaluru, I was first contacted by an animal welfare organization called CUPA ( ), and later by Union minister,  , on Friday, last week,“ she added.
 
 “Therefore, along with a few friends who are into rescuing and getting stray dogs adopted, I went to Vadodara to pick them up,“ said Choudhury, who added, “Records indicate that they were in the laboratory since they were about 45 days old, and were kept there for about 6-7 years before being released.“
 
 The dogs will soon be examined medically.
 
 “These pups haven't seen the outside world or perhaps even sunshine in all these years,“ said Chirag Sharma, one of the rescuers. “Some of them have sores on their skin as they have been staying in cage for years.“
 
 “While it was a joy to bring them to the shelter, the work is still half done, as we need to get their blood reports and medical examination done,“ he added.
 
 Many of the dogs are traumatized. No visitors are currently allowed to play with them because they are scared and tend to run away and hide in their cage. They have never had human interaction before except to be exposed to drugs and injections.
 
 The team of dog lovers are attempting to make them familiar with the environment, with human touch and even one another. They feel that even after due medical care, getting them adopted is a challenge.
 
 “The family which will adopt these pets will have to be prepared to spend time training them and taking care of them because of their condition. We would do so after due counselling with the future pet-parents,“ said Himani Mod, yet another dog rescuer based in Ahmedabad.
 
 “It will take them close to a year to be toilet trained. It is really different from adopting a pedigree dog straight from a litter or even after it is abandoned. When adopting a laboratory-released dog, one must be prepared to take necessary care,“ added Richa.
 
 
 
 
 According to a blog on   (PETA), dogs are a favoured species in toxicology studies. In these studies, large doses of a test substance (a pharmaceutical, industrial chemical, pesticide, or household product) are force-fed to animals or injected into their bodies. Experimenters use beagles because of their friendly and docile nature and their small size. Besides, many genes of beagles are quite similar to those of humans.
 
