AHMEDABAD: Whether it was   at home, there was nothing that could deter these class XII students from excelling at the  . Their road wasn’t smooth and despite the odds, their determination to do well never wavered. For some candidates, their families struggled hard to make the best resources available to them, while for others the journey was an uphill one,  . These are a few of these inspirational journeys...

 Rickshaw driver’s daughter set to study medicine
 
 Farooq Bawani, an autorickshaw driver, couldn’t hold back his tears of happiness on hearing that his daughter Farhana had scored in the 99.71th percentile in the class XII boards. Farhana wanted to become a doctor from when she was eight. Her father made sure he removed every hurdle from her way, despite his meagre monthly earnings of around Rs 12,000. Farhana is grateful to her father, who spent around Rs 1 lakh on her science education, even while struggling to make ends meet at home. While she is determined to secure admission at a medical college, Farhana said, “I am confident about my performance. However, there were some typos and translation errors in the question paper. I hope these don’t come in the way of my dream.”
 
 Daughter makes dad who believed in her proud
 
 A student of Diwan Ballubhai School,  , who scored in the 98.58th percentile in the board exams. She has fulfilled her own and her fathers’ dream, of excelling in academics. Sameer Parmar, her father, took up multiple jobs to be able to afford to educate her. A proud father, he says, “I was the first one to distribute sweets when she was born – at a time when having a daughter was looked down upon. I was determined to raise her with the best of values and to never compromise on her education. I am so happy that she is excelling in her efforts,” said Sameer.
 
 Engineering aspirant lives up to family legacy
 
 For Satvik Mashkaria, board exams look like a smooth ride. By scoring in the 99th percentile in his class XII boards on Thursday, Satvik continued his winning streak. He had topped his class X board exams as well. Satvik was delighted to continue his family’s success story. His father was a board topper in 1983 and so were his siblings. “The pressure of expectations never crushed me. Even though my parents are doctors, I chose to deviate a bit and I want to make a career in computer science and engineering,” said Satvik, who is also one of the youngest Sanskrit scholars.
 
 Cancer survivor’s son conquers boards
 
  cleared the board exams and scored in the 99.61th percentile. A witness to his mother’s battle against cancer since when he was in class X, Devarsh found it hard focusing on his studies. “There was nobody to care for him or be there while he studied for his exams, especially when he was in class X. It was a difficult time for him and he still managed everything so well. This is indeed a moment of pride for me,” his mother said.
 
