MUMBAI: BEST's vigilance squad on Thursday alleged that the electricity meter for the spacious penthouse of yesteryear actor   at Worli seaface was tampered with, causing it losses to the tune of Rs 47 lakh over three years.

 Both Agnihotri and her businessman husband Anil Virwani were named as accused in an FIR registered at Worli police station. The actor was not available for questioning by the BEST team as she was “out of town,“ said officials. Zonal deputy police commissioner   said, “We have registered a case of electricity theft amounting to Rs 46.9 lakh.We are probing the issue.“ The penthouse is in Sterling Seaface at Worli.
 
 While the actor could not be reached, when contacted, Virwani said, “Neither me nor Rati nor my son Tanuj is in Mumbai right now. I was shocked when I learnt about the matter this afternoon. There has been some misunderstanding and I will address the issue when I return to the city. We have been living in this apartment building for nine or ten years and nothing of this sort has happened before. I am saddened that I was not given a chance to explain. The officials arrived and said they wanted to see the house so I called two of my staff members and allowed them in. I am completely taken by surprise.“
 
 BEST chief vigilance officer R J Singh informed TOI that the electricity was pilfered in a “sophisticated“ manner.
 
 “At first glance, you will find no fault with the meter but when we removed it from its spot, we saw a small hole drilled on its rear. It was used to tamper with the meter and slow it down by up to 87%,“ said Singh.
 
 BEST staffers used electronic gadgets and other equipment to test the meter on the spot. “We found that it was slow to show less consumption of power,“ he said.
 
 BEST general manager Jagdish Patil said a thorough investigation will be conducted with the help of cops. “We are also announcing a cash reward of Rs 5,000 for informants in such cases henceforth. In case the provisional claim (of penalty) is huge, we will share a portion of it with the informants, subject to a maximum of Rs 50,000.“ Patil added the department was not just focusing on slums and chawls, but also on power thefts in highrises. In the past one year, vigilance squads have registered 163 FIRs and booked more than a thousand accused.They have also cracked the whip on affluent citizens from the highrises of Malabar Hill, Wadala, Mahim and Byculla.“We will not spare anyone if we come across meter tampering or pilferage directly from the mains,“ said Singh. 
 
 (With inputs by Bella Jaisinghani)
 
 
