If you wake up on a summer morning and find Gurgaon resembling a dystopian wasteland, do not worry. Your eyes aren't playing tricks on you. It's the layer of dust and pollution that has enveloped the city of late. According to a recent report, the air quality index (AQI) in Gurgaon is worse than the most polluted parts of Delhi like Anand Vihar and Punjabi Bagh. In fact, since April 20, Gurgaon's average AQI for PM 2.5 (small particulate matter) has been higher compared to these highly polluted parts of the national capital. Among the demographics the pollution has hurt, Gurgaon’s morning joggers and cyclists are among the worst hit. The city that takes pride in its culture of non-motorised transport with an abundance of running and cycling groups, the pollution has put a brake on the jogging and cycling routine of Gurgaonwallahs. The situation is such that their number has dropped down by 30-35%. 

  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 With many avid morning birds having given up on their routines, runners and cyclists from the city say that the effects of pollution are evident in the running and cycling culture in the city. Manu Kalra, a resident of Phase 5, who runs a group called  , tells us, "On some days of the week we do outdoor workouts, while on other days, we simply run. I have noticed that since the dusty weather has began, there has been a 30-35% drop in the number of people opting for runs. People have dropped out of our morning runs and workout routines altogether due to allergies in the past couple of months."
 
  Neeta Singh, a resident of Sector 15, adds, "The number of cyclists in the city has definitely gone down. The level of pollution dipped after winters, but I feel that over the past one month, it has become almost as bad as around Diwali. I see fewer cyclists out on the roads these days. In fact, a couple of my friends, who would ride with me, have stopped cycling since March. Even I am not that frequent anymore."
 
  
 Nagender Singh, holder of the Ironman title, says, "Gurgaon not only suffers from vehicular pollution, but also from dust due to all the construction. Consequently, the number of people going for runs has definitely reduced. In fact, even I have cut down on my runs and morning rides, thanks to a combination of the dust and heat. At 7am in the morning, it gets so hot that it becomes impossible to run for more than half-an-hour. This means that you start your run at 4am, but you can’t do that too as the trucks ply on the road at that time. This has reduced the ideal time window for morning exercise."
 
  
  
 
  
  Nagender Singh, Ironman title holder
 
  
 Several residents say that they have given up jogging even during the morning hours when the pollution is at its lowest. Instead, they prefer going to the gym. Priyanka Verma, a resident of Sector 57 and a nutritionist, who was earlier part of the Gurgaon Road Runners group, says, "I used to go for morning walks every day. But Gurgaon’s air quality seems to be degrading constantly. I even tried going out for a walk at around 5am in the morning, but even then, the quality is really poor. Now, I hardly go for walks outside and this is the reason why I prefer to go to the gym which, has air purifiers."
 
  
  
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  
 Those, who haven't given up on their morning riding or running routine, have had to make adjustments either in the location of their runs or the time. Amit, a resident of Phase 1, says, "I do not cycle regularly but whenever I used to, I would take the   as it is close to where I live. But now, it feels suffocating to ride there as the air quality is really bad. So, I ride along the   nowadays." 
 
  
  
 
 Sameer Singh, a resident of Sushant Lok, says, "The dusty weather and pollution has forced me to change where I run. Earlier, I used to go to the Golf Course Road, but now I drive to the Biodiversity Park and run there. The air is much cleaner there." 
 
 Aditya Ahuja, an avid cyclist from the city, says, "I used to begin my rides around 6am but that meant they would end by 8.30-9am when the office traffic begins and it gets quite polluted. So, to avoid that, I started cutting my rides short and finishing them by 8am at the most."
 
 --With inputs from Riya.Sharma@timesgroup.com
 
 
