As the world recently celebrated Greenery Day, we took a stroll through Kochi to spot the popular green areas in the city. At a time when many are refraining from stepping out this summer, these luscious green stretches could tempt you to do otherwise.

 
 
 
 Moving past cafes and malls, the Kochi crowd got a refreshing option to get together when Subhash Park got a revamp two years ago. Located near boat jetty and Maharaja’s College, it has become the hub of respite for people, who long for some fresh air. Serin Ramani says, “My friends and I make it a point every weekend to go to the park and relax. Our weekdays are really hectic, so this allows us to revitalise ourselves.” The view of Marine Drive is an icing on the cake, she adds.
 
 
 
 
 If you are on the lookout for a place, away from the hustle and bustle of the city, then the park at Panampilly Nagar might just be the eco-friendly destination. Rajesh Raj says, “The park transposes one to a tranquil zone. It provides me a space to contemplate on things, and give me more clarity.”
 He adds that lane itself is visually appealing, and the hues of red from the fallen leaves of the Gulmohar tree fill the mind with happiness.
 
 
 
 
 The premises of Maharaja’s College and Law College in the city are such that it puts across a strong message to the students about planting trees and building greener environment. The entire campuses are beautified by the trees.
 
 Abhijith V M, an alumnus of Maharaja’s College and a media personnel, says that pursuing studies in such an atmosphere was an “enriching experience”. He says the green cover has also instilled an afforestation mind set among the students. “Maharaja’s campus is one of the best   as it has a history of protecting trees, and the flora has been an integral part of the college,” he says.
 
 Abhijith also explains that the various names ascribed to the trees have their own reasons. “For instance, Samara Maram was where the student unions began their strikes. Even when the rains stopped, the Mazha Maram would still have spurts of water. The students use the Aal Maram, located in middle of campus, as a platform to make announcements.”
 
 Similarly, the campus has the rare Peeranki Unda Maram (Cannon ball tree) near its Zoology department that bears fruit as big as cannon balls. Abhijith adds, “The mulla panthal, also called as Jasmine Creepers has an intriguing story. The jasmines have never bloomed, and nobody knows why. But the youth attribute it to witnessing a handful of breakups.”
 
 
 
 
 The General Hospital Road and Gandhi Nagar have canopies, thereby shielding and providing relief to the passers-by.
 
