HYDERABAD: With water levels at   dipping by the day, Greater Hyderabad residents may face a severe crisis in the next couple of months.

 The Hyderabad Metropolitan   and Sewerage Board draws raw Krishna water at  , around 130km away from the city , for supplying 270 million gallons of water per day (MGD) to residents.
 
 According to latest reports, the water level at Nagarjunasagar project is 507 feet. Fearing water supply to the city might get affected, the HMWS&SB has started making arrangements for installation of emergency pumps at Puttamgandi to pump water through the Krishna drinking water supply scheme.
 
 Already , the engineer-in chief, irrigation & catchment area development (I&CAD), Telangana, in February directed the water board to make necessary arrangements at Puttamgandi, which is on the banks of the Krishna.
 
 “Irrigation department uses its pumps at Puttamgandi to draw water till the level reaches 506 feet at Nagarjunasagar and then the water board has to start using emergency pumps from 505 feet onwards. Works pertaining to installation of emergency pumps at Puttamgandi village began two days ago,“ HMWS&SB chief general manager-transmission, B Vijay Kumar Reddy told TOI. The water board is planning to complete the work by April 10 and begin pumping after April 15, he said.
 
 Like last year, the HMWS&SB plans to install 10 emergency pumps at   by spending nearly `8 crore, the official said. The emergency pumping to draw 270 million gallons of water per day (MGD) might continue up to June, he said.
 
 Soon, water board officials will meet the Telangana State Southern Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) authorities in Nalgonda district and seek their help to provide uninterrupted power supply at Puttamgandi and en route pumping stations to avoid disturbance in the supplies, the water board official said.
 
 The water board also plans to increase tanker trips to meet likely spike in April and May . Currently, the HMWS&SB is plying 750 tankers with each vehicle making eight trips per day.
 
 According to   officials, the groundwater levels in May might go up to 11.40 metres below ground level (MGBL).
 
