RAIPUR: At least 16 tribal women were allegedly raped and physically assaulted by policemen in   in November 2015, the   ( ) said on Saturday, even as it awaits the recorded statements of 20 more alleged victims of similar sexual violence perpetrated by security forces.

 The NHRC conducted a spot investigation, taking cognizance of news reports of policemen raping and sexually harassing women in five villages — Pegdapalli, Chinnagelur, Peddagelur, Gundam and Burgicheru — in Bijapur district in November 2015.
 
 The commission observed that while all victims were tribals, police failed to invoke the provisions of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, thus depriving them of the monetary relief under the Act.
 
 The commission issued a showcause notice to the Chhattisgarh government why it should not recommend interim monetary relief of Rs 37 lakh to the survivors.
 
 The commission said it carefully considered the material placed on record and found FIRs of 34 victims alleging physical assault as well as rape/sexual assault committed by security personnel.
 
 The NHRC team then met the victims who reiterated how they were sexually assaulted by policemen.
 
 The commission has now directed its DIG (Investigation) to depute a team of officials from the investigation division and law division to record the statements of the 15 victims whose statements were not recorded either by the NHRC team or by a magistrate and submit the same to the commission within a month.
 
 The commission has also directed the additional director general of police (CID) to get the statements of 19 more victims and forward the same to the commission.
 
 Besides, the NHRC has also directed the additional director general of police (CID) to ensure that SC/ST Act is invoked in all the cases where the victims belonged to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes while state chief secretary has been has been directed to ensure that monetary relief under the SC/ST (PoA) Act is paid to the victims at the earliest.
 
 During the course of its inquiry, the commission also got complaints of sexual assault against security personnel between January 11 and January 14, 2016, at Bellam Lendra village in Bijapur district, Kunna in Sukma and Chotegadam in Dantewada.
 
