NEW DELHI: The birth of a child is a momentous occasion. It can also entail a big financial commitment, as a TOI investigation found. In   in  , expectant mothers are being charged up to Rs 5 lakh for a normal delivery, with a   or surgically assisted delivery costing substantially more.

 “Child delivery has become a business. Doctors first fill your mind with apprehensions, and then feed on their fears,” fumed Nutan Verma, who is expecting twins and was given an estimate of Rs 5.5 lakh for their delivery at a premium hospital in Delhi. This included the doctor’s fee of Rs 2.70 lakh. The sum left Verma aghast as drugs and consumables were projected to cost a mere Rs 10,500. Use of the nursery and neonatal ICU would be charged separately.
 
 Many hospitals claim that the big bills run up by patients reflect their desire for choice options. At Fortis La Femme, a boutique maternity hospital where the cost of delivery had a base range of Rs 1.4 lakh, Anika Parashar, the chief operating officer, said that the establishment did not coerce patients into opting for premium services. “There is a demand for premium services and we cater to that. There’s nothing wrong in it,” Parashar said.
 
 Indeed, hospitals today offer five-star stay, choice meals, and yoga sessions to increase strength, flexibility and endurance of muscles needed for childbirth. Some also arrange for baby showers, special photography and a cake-cutting ceremony. A little extra can get the new parents their baby’s first footprints preserved on gold or silver.
 
 The website of Sitaram Bhartia Institute of Science and Research states this upfront: “Just as you can find hotel rooms in Delhi ranging from Rs 2,000 to Rs 20,000 per night, you can find a range of pricing for both vaginal and Caesarean section deliveries. Our rates reflect the quality of medical care, service support and our infrastructure that includes 24-hour onsite specialist doctors.” Its services for a normal delivery can cost from Rs 61,000 to Rs 1.37 lakh depending on the type of room chosen — from an economy room to a mini-suite.
 
 At Moolchand Hospital, a normal delivery is likely to run up a bill of Rs 70,000-1 lakh. “You cannot blame doctors alone for the high cost of delivery,” reasoned Dr Sadhna Kala, senior gynaecologist. “It can cost less too, but indulgences do come at a price.”
 
 Another doctor pointed out that because many women do not have family support these days, they “hire costly counsellors for common queries and undergo lactation training, while also demanding the help of full-time nurses during the delivery process”.
 
 Asked about Caesarean deliveries, which brings in more for hospitals than normal procedures, Dr Suneeta Mittal, director and head of obstetrics and gynaecology at Fortis Hospital, Gurgaon, conceded that there was an increase in such cases. “Ideally, Caesarean sections should not constitute more than 15% of total deliveries,” she said, but added that in bigger hospitals dealing with complex pregnancy cases, the proportion could be “a little higher”. 
 
 
