New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday took suo motu cognisance of a TOI report highlighting release of poisonous substances into groundwater from polluting industrial units in northeast Delhi’s Mustafabad.

 Terming the report titled ‘Is blue the colour of death in Delhi’s ‘cancer colony’?’ an eye opener, a bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Navin Chawla demanded to know from the authorities what steps are being taken to stop contamination of groundwater.
 
 The report highlighted that untreated effluents are contaminating groundwater, which is the main source of drinking water in the area and is also linked to the high rate of cancer.
 
 The bench expressed displeasure over the dyeing units operating in the residential area. “This is happening because nobody wants to get out of their offices and see what is happening in the areas under their jurisdiction,” it said.
 
 The court issued notices to  ,  , Delhi Pollution Control Board, DJB and various other civic bodies, and sought their replies by May 25.
 
 Acting on the same report, the Union water resources ministry on Wednesday directed the Delhi health department to set up an expert committee to conduct a detailed study on the health impact of these dyeing units and the extent of groundwater contamination in the area, if any, due to these units.
 
 Shocked to learn that the locality is known as ‘cancer colony’, the bench said, “The issue is of large environment concern.” It directed the Delhi government to place a preliminary report before it on the impact on the health of residents in and around Mustafabad due to such units. It also asked the government to ensure proper medical facility for these residents.
 
 The high court noted that the TOI report had also referred to an opinion of a former senior oncologist of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) that aniline dyes are indeed known to cause cancer.
 
 “Release of poisonous substance from these industries may not only impact the groundwater in that area but may also soon spread over other parts of the city,” the bench noted, adding that the “genesis of the problem is misuse of properties by the people”.
 
 The court noted that the residents of the locality depend on borewells and it is quite likely that the acids, dyes and untreated effluents discharged into drains eventually seep into the groundwater.
 
 
