 

 
 For the past 61 years, Adarsh Nagar Ram Mandir's Ramlila has been entertaining masses with their theatrical depiction of Ramayana. But this year, the Ramlila has introduced something which has both the theatre community and audiences applauding ­ women actors.
 
 All the characters ­ male and female ­ were played by men till now, but with changing times, the committee decided to in corporate female actors. Says Keshav Bedi, treasurer,  ,  , “The staging of Ramlila involves an elaborate cast for playing different characters. Keshav adds, “Most mandalis still have male actors who also play female characters.Till last year,we were inviting artists from Mathura, with only male members staging Ramlila. This year, we thought of having a drama troupe from Kota which has female actors, to be part of Ramlila. This makes the characters look more real and lends authenticity to the act, apart from attracting a bigger audience.“
 
 Shrinath Gautam, director,   (theatre group that performs Ramlila), adds, “Ours is a 35-yearold troupe that has been hosting Ramlila across the state. Till 2005, it was an all men's group. Then we decided to include women actors to play lead roles like Devi Sita, Devi Parvati, Kaikeyi and Manthara. Though our male actors have been playing these characters on stage for years, we thought why not get women to play the female characters? Initially ,I asked my male members to bring their wives to play these roles. That's how we started with women characters and now, we have 11 women in our group.“
 
 
 
 
  are still un common because most of the mandalis are from smaller cities, where theatre is not a conventional career option for women. Gautam adds, “Ramlila mandalis in smaller cities mostly have only male actors, since theatre is not a conventional career option for women. But with changing times, women are also active in theatre and we have talented actors to play pivotal roles of Sita, Parvati, Kaushalya or Kaikeyi. And it adds to the authenticity of the play and makes the act more relatable.“
 
 Female actors do accept that there is a strong shift in people's mindset. Priya Budwani, a 20-year-old who works as an executive in a telecom company , and is playing Sita, says, “It is all part of our traditional value system, which bars female actors to appear on stage. So mandalis avoid hiring female actors in the troupes. But with changing time, Ramlila mandalis are also adopting a liberal ideology and are now hiring women actors.“
 
 
 
 For many women in the troupe, acting is not their only profession. 18-year-old Kiran Sharma, who is state-level champion in judo karate, says, “I recently won a bronze medal at a state-level competition in Kota and I'm also quite passionate about dance. I had never thought of acting; I just thought of giving it a try and I'm loving it. People watch Ramlila with apt attention and great respect for the actors. Since I am new, I have a very small role with a few dialogues. I was quite nervous on the first day , but enjoyed every bit of it. I would like to showcase my talent as a dancer, too.“
 
 Since the act holds religious significance, these actors are expected to practice months before the actual performance. Gautam instructs his actors to spend time in preparing for their roles, be it a small one of a sakhi or a pivotal role of Sita.Adds Priya, “ After my office, I spend at least two hours to memorise my dialogues, which are not in spoken Hindi. The dialogues are in Maithili, Awadhi and Brij, along with tough Sanskrit shlokas and chaupai. I play Sita and the role is one of the important ones, so one cannot take risk. Thankfully , I don't forget my dialogues.'
 
 
 
 It takes talent and practice to act in Ramlila which is staged for a large audience, many members of which perceive the actors as real Gods. After the show, many click selfies with them, and even ask them for their blessings. 35-year-old actor Jaya Vadhwani, who plays Sumitra, has been active on stage for the past 10 years and has portrayed different roles. She tells us, “I am an actor and perform in all major cities of India. I have played quite important characters ­ be it of an empowered woman or a subdued wife ­ on stage. But I've never felt the kind of respect that I receive when I essay a role in Ramlila. I'm playing Sumitra and Goddess Parvati in this one. On one of the days, a middle-aged woman came up to me and touched my feet. I was completely taken aback. She even asked to put my hand on her head and give her ashirwad. Ramlila actors receive this kind of respect and adulation, which is why I enjoy being a part of it.“ 
 
