NEW DELHI: The government has agreed to provide the   ( ) the list of Indians with accounts in  , Geneva; LGT Bank, Liechtenstein and   against whom prosecution has been completed.

 Revenue secretary   told the PAC on Friday that the list could be provided after members argued that the issue was shrouded in secrecy despite having been first raised more than five years ago. BJP MP   is understood to have pointed out that he wanted to know whether the names of alleged account holders — who include a former MP and the wife of a senior politician who had herself held a ministerial post — were true. “We would like to know if the names taken were right or wrong,” Dube is understood to have asked. 
 
 Adhia said names would be made available to the committee. So far, some names of persons facing prosecution have been given to the  .
 
 The decision to make the list available is seen in the context of a task force announced by the government on Friday evening to monitor action against “deviant shell companies” as well 
 
 as professionals who abetted illegal fund transfer. The PAC also examined finance ministry brass on demonetisation with committee chair K V Thomas saying ATMs were yet to return to normalcy and Congress member Satyavrat Chaturvedi pointing out that the Centre was still to make good claims about black money disclosures and the value of old currency exchanged and deposited.
 
 Committee members also wanted the government to disclose the list of big corporate defaulters provided by the   to the SC.
 
 MPs said if small loan defaulters were not immune from scrutiny and their names were often published in the media, why should big fish be treated with kids gloves.
 
 With members calling for changes in laws that date back to the early 1930s, economic affairs secretary   is learnt to have assured the committee that the government would examine the issue and get back to members.
 
 The discussion on monetary policy also saw some members pointing out that the realty sector needed to be carefully monitored and some reports suggested that the prospect of a sub-prime type crisis should be averted.
 
