NAGPUR: Ex-president of Jawaharlal Nehru University Students Union   lambasted the Delhi police and authorities who threw him in jail on sedition charges but failed to find any evidence even a year after the incident. “There was nothing to prove my guilt because I did nothing wrong. Charges against me were false. So its no wonder the police failed to file a charge sheet,” he said.

 Ironically, as he visited the city for the second time after a year’s gap. the police security for him was elaborate right from the airport to Dhanwate College auditorium where he attended a function to mark release of his book ‘Bihar se Tihar’. During his last visit some protester hurled a shoe at him. This time round the heavy security and waning interest in him ensured no such untoward incident. The small auditorium was not even full but those who attended were impressed by his simplicity and oratory.
 
 Many sections of the society including the poor, dalits, women, tribals, backward classes, minorities, and even intellectuals were living in “environment of fear” he said. The “present scenario in the country is such that if you demand reduction in fee, you will be labelled as anti-national”, referring to a recent incident wherein 68 Panjab University students were booked for sedition for protesting against hike in fee. “Such is the situation that if you do not use Patanjali facewash you will be called an anti-national,” Kanhaiya said.
 
 “I have no claims to be a writer and I am sure I will not write another book. This is not even an autobiography. Its is just an account of myself. To tell people who know today’s Kanhaiya Kumar of what he was till he became known. How a poor boy from Begusarai village of Bihar reached Delhi in quest of some answers,” said Kanhaiya explaining why he wrote the book. The excerpts of the book read out by Sudhakar Shendge, who translated it into Marathi that was released at the function, pointed to how Kanhaiya was drawn towards Left and pursued his goals through that ideology along with motivation from Ambedkarite thoughts.
 
 “Last year also I had come here and I also went to Deekshabhoomi to pay tributes to Ambedkar. But this time I am told Prime Minister   is coming. Though late, it is good that Modi has remembered Ambedkar,” he said in a sarcastic remark. The Marathi version’s publication was oraganised by Progressive Writers’ Guild.
 
 “Ambedkar framed the Constitution in a manner that provided freedom to every member of society in many ways. But this freedom has not been delivered to large section of society,” he added.
 
 Former vice-chancellor Haribhau Kedar who released the book hailed Kanhaiya as the youth sensation who had seen the disaster of fascism and right-wing political dominance led by Modi. Eminent poet Yeshwant Manohar, who presided over the function, wondered why leaders like Sharad Pawar in Maharashtra were not aware of the impending political disaster and kept away from non-BJP unity, a move started by Lalu Prasad, Mulayam Singh and  .
 
