Nagpur: The tenth offence was registered against Dilip Gwalbanshi and his organized gang on Tuesday. The complainants, who had bought substantial land in Netaji Society at Mankapur in 2001, approached assistant commissioner of police Somnath Vaghchoure and said they had been cheated by Gwalbanshi. Vaghchoure forwarded their complaint to Mankapur police and ordered registration of offence. On Monday, Koradi police also registered offence against land mafia for demanding extortion Rs50lakh and threatening senior citizen. Now there are total five offences in Mankapur, three cases in Gittikhadan and two offences reported at Koradi police station against the land mafia. On Tuesday, 19 teachers took possession of their land in Sachin Society located in the jurisdiction of Gittikhadan police station. ACP Vaghchoure told TOI, “I sent two police personnel in civil dress along with the teachers, who had bought total 26 plots on the land. On Wednesday, they will be bringing contractors and build security wall around the land.” Suresh Dhurve, 63, who had bought land measuring 5,200 sq ft in Netaji Society and lodged complaint on behalf of 17 victims, told TOI, “I bought three plots for Rs1.94lakh in 2001 from Deepak Dube and Lallan Mishra through agent Vinod Singh Thakur.” Later, whenever he visited the land, he was stopped by the security guard appointed by Gwalbanshi, who had grabbed the land. Dhurve, retired employee of Ordinance Factory, claimed, “I dared to complain after I came to know that Dube had cheated us and made forged land documents in the name of Gwalbanshi.” “I paid Rs80,000 to Dube for a 1,500 sq ft plot in 2001. I immediately built a house and started staying there since then. But in 2003, Dube came to my place, gave me another plot to stay and took Rs25,000 for notary. Within a few days, he demolished my home,” said Sandhya Mahoto. The place where she used to stay was then grabbed by Gwalbanshi. TOI, after interacting with more victims, came to know that around 150 people had been sold plots in one acre. Originally there are 17 land owners, mostly labourers. Dube and Mishra had tied up with Gwalbanshi to duped everyone. In a similar case, 60-year-old Haji Bashir approached Koradi police station and lodged a complaint of extortion Rs50lakh and threatening against Gwalbanshi and his two accomplices on Monday. Bashir claimed he had brought two acres in Jhingabai Takli on Koradi Road in 2007. Within a year, Gwalbanshi illegally claimed the land and stopped him from entering the premises.