HYDERABAD: The Centre’s latest ruling on  , is only likely to add to the confusion already existing around this unregulated tax component, feel hoteliers in Hyderabad. Their prediction: increase in number of ugly spats between staffers and customers over the tip amount.

 At present most hotels and restaurants in the city levy a service charge of 5-10 per cent on every bill. That there is no law defining the ‘terms and conditions’ of this charge, allows restaurants to have a field day. Even takeaway/home delivery outlets are often found levying a service charge.
 
 “There has to be some checks and balances (in case of takeaways for instance). But making service charge voluntary and not mandatory for a customer is too tricky and complicated,” said Ashok Hemrajani, vice-president, Hotels and Restaurants Association of Telangana State ( ).
 
 It could also financially hit hotel staffers, say some industry insiders. At present, the service charge collected by an establishment is divided among employees working in various sections of the restaurant. “They look forward to this extra earning,” said Sharad Arora, general manager (operations) at United Kitchens of India siding with the views of the   on the issue. “As long as a restaurant clearly mentions the service charge component on its menu, I think it is fine for them to levy it. It is then the customer’s decision to either go ahead and order or leave the place,” Arora said ruing the chaos that latest move has led to. On Tuesday the restaurant had to extend a 10 per cent discount to a customer after he sighted the Centre’s decision.
 
 “Hoteliers are only making a mountain of a molehill. Anyway, in many cases the money collected through this is not even passed on to the staffers. It should always be the diner’s prerogative to tip or not tip a waiter. Even the amount must be an individual choice,” said Prateek Raj a banker. He shared how he recently got into an argument with a restaurant after they added a hefty 10 per cent service charge to his home delivery order. This was over the Rs 40 charged for dropping thefood at his doorstep.
 
 
