HAPUR: Anubhav Mittal’s   has left many feeling cheated but it’s his arrest that that has left Pilkhuwa upset. At Kishanganj Mohall, the neighbourhood where Mittal grew up, there is anger that he is being called a scamster.

 A large section of Pilkhuwa, including Mittal’s neighbours — mostly local traders like grocery shop and garment store owners — has subscribed to Mittal’s Social Trade and has benefited from it. “He belongs to a very well-respected family and he has grown up before my eyes. His father and grandfather have two shops here. I am sure he is being framed, " said Kapil Bansal, owner of a wheat grinding store, metres away from the grocery store Mittal’s grandfather owns. 
 
 Shivam Kumar, owner of   and a Social Trade investor, said, “First of all, please stop using this word ‘investment’. He never offered us any commitment of any kind in multiplying our money. Her just shared an idea and stated that if his venture works, he would increase the returns by more than Rs 5,000 per week and if it doesn’t, the returns would decrease. It was our decision to jump in.”
 
 Mittal’s grandfather Ved Prakash too is convinced his grandson is innocent. “He always had a unique solution to things and was good with technology. Before he moved and got married, he used to help me at my grocery store and used to think of ways to expand it,” he said. “My wife’s health has deteriorated even more after this news (of his arrest). She is already a heart patient.”
 
 Ved Prakash was the only one at the Mittal home. The location of his brother and parents remains sketchy. “My son and daughter-in-law had to go out of station for something urgent. I don’t know when will they come back,” said Ved Prakash.
 
 Rahul Gupta, another shopkeeper who claimed to have invested in the Rs 57,500 Social Trade plan, said, “I have only received Rs 10,000 so far but I have nothing against him. He did not keep us in the dark and issued a notification that there will be delay in sending money due to some technical discrepancy. If they weren't sending money to people, they also did not accept any new investors in that period.”
 
 Another shopkeeper named Anshul Goyal added, “No matter how much you try, you will not find anyone speaking against him here. Why did the police put him behind bars? He is just being framed.”
 
 Mamata Bharadwaj, principal of KMS Public Inter College, Mittal’s school, said, he excelled as a student. “Anubhav came to our school in the 9th standard and stayed with us till his 12th in 2006. He was a brilliant student and was his teachers’ favourite. He topped his 12th. His name is mentioned on our roll of honour. I am so shocked to read about this in the newspapers.”
 
 Abhinav Jain, a classmate of Mittal from school, said, “He was my friend and he was great in school but I don't want to comment about this.”
 
 
