HUBBALLI: Against a backdrop of acute farmer distress, with fodder and water in short supply, the curtains went up on the three-day   on Friday.

 The state has been feeling the pinch of consecutive droughts, and the farming community has been hit particularly hard by the failure of the monsoons. Although many farmers’ organisations registered their opposition to celebrating the event, their pleas were not heeded by the district administration. The utsava is being held at the  . The finale on Sunday is expected to be a grand affair with singers such as Rajesh Krishnan, Sangeeta Malnad and others set to enthrall the audience.
 
 President of Raitha Sangha, Haveri, Ramanna Kencheller expressed dismay over the district administration’s decision to go ahead with the celebrations despite the prevailing drought conditions. “The district registered more than 130 cases of farmer suicide in one year. A central team that visited the district a few months ago too expressed concern over the plight of the farmers,” he told TOI.
 
 He added that many farmer leaders had voiced concerns over the plans to organize the event in the past month. “But neither the deputy commissioner nor the district minister paid heed to our pleas,” Kencheller said.
 
 Highlighting the terrible condition of the farmers in Haveri, he added, “Paucity of fodder in villages has resulted in many farmers being forced to sell their cattle. Also, with many waterbodies drying up, there is shortage of drinking water in the villages.”
 
 He said that Rs 25 lakh was being spent on the utsava. “The money can be used to address the shortage of drinking water and fodder. We held no protest or dharna demanding that the event be cancelled. We let the district administration and the minister decide. It appears as if they are not sensitive towards the farmers’ plight,” Kencheller said.
 
 Haveri district minister Rudrappa Lamani said that the scale of the celebrations was not grand. “We are keeping it simple, owing to drought. A sum of Rs 25 lakh has been released for the purpose, and if we fail to organize the event, the fund will lapse. This is why we are going ahead with the event,” he said.
 
 Pointing out that the utsava had not been celebrated for the past two years, Lamani said, “The event offers an opportunity for poor stage artists to showcase their talent. They will also be offered adequate remuneration.”
 
