CHENNAI: Customers of private lenders   Bank and Axis Bank will have to shell out more for cash transactions beyond free limits from March 1. Other than senior citizens and children, HDFC Bank customers will be charged Rs 150 per transaction at branches beyond the four free ones each month.

 Axis Bank said that it will allow five free transactions a month (including deposits and withdrawals). From the sixth transaction onwards, customers would be charged at the rate of Rs 2.50 per Rs 1,000, subject to a minimum fee of Rs 95 per transaction. For home branch transactions, HDFC Bank will allow deposits or withdrawals of up to Rs 2 lakh free of cost at one go per day . Beyond this, customers will have to pay a charge at the rate of Rs 5 per Rs 1,000, or Rs 150 would be charged. At non-home branches, transactions beyond Rs 25,000 a day will attract a charge of Rs 5 per Rs 1,000, or Rs 150.
 
 In the case of Axis Bank, up to five non-home branch transactions will be free, subject to a maximum per-day deposit of Rs 50,000. For larger deposits or the sixth transaction, Axis would charge Rs 2.50 per Rs 1,000, or Rs 95 per transaction, whichever is higher. A spokesperson said that no charges were imposed for “forced“ cash deposits during demonetisation.However, some charges were restored from January 1.
 
 
  
 
 
 ICICI Bank said that it has not increased its cash charges since last June. Other private banks such as Karur Vysya Bank, City Union Bank and DCB Bank confirmed that they are not charging their customers for cash transactions before or after demonetisation.
 
 SBI has not announced any new cash-handling charges after demonetisation. An SBI official said that the public sector bank was not levying charges on cash transactions by their customers, for now. Canara Bank also said it was not charging its custo mers for cash withdrawals.
 
 Sources said that banks have been reintroducing or increasing such charges in a piecemeal fashion after December 31, 2016. Union finance minister Arun Jaitley capped cash transactions at Rs 3 lakh in the Union Budget in a bid to discourage cash usage and boost digital transactions. K Venkataraman, CEO, Karur Vysya Bank, said, “ All banks do a review in March-April of the charges they levy before the next financial year. So a bank increasing charges isn't necessarily significant.“ Meanwhile, ICICI Bank has capped cash transaction by a third party at Rs 50,000 per day , while HDFC Bank has placed a cap of Rs 25,000 a day.
 
