NAGPUR: Pride, joy and tears – all emotions were visible among the new women police constables of the state police who passed out from Nagpur Police Training Centre. The passing out parade by the latest batch was held on Monday morning at the   in Laxmi Nagar. The constables of 107th batch conducted the traditional parade with their parents, friends or relatives watching them with awe. 

 The event started at 7am and was attended by  , chief guest of the programme. The students took an oath in front of him. Addressing them, Venkatesh said, “Humanity is an important value that needs a place above other things at work. For women, it is a difficult task to balance work and home. There will be times when you will live alone. Wherever you go, always be alert and try to implement whatever you have learnt during the course of training. It is time for you to set an example and show how well you can work. Changes can happen only when everybody contributes their best. Try to find a specialization of your own and dream big.”
 
 Apart from the parade, yoga pyramids were exhibited by 32 students for the first time on passing out day. Yoga has been made compulsory for students and officers since December, following a directive by prime minister Narendra Modi. Radhika Vazalwar, yoga in-charge for the Centre, says classes were held every evening from December onwards.
 
 “When I started training them, I observed some students were over-weight or lethargic, some were burdened by the routine or suffered from back pain. All this started easing out gradually and I received positive feedback from them. I focused more on relaxation techniques that have proven to be of equal value as sleep. They have very hectic schedules. Earlier the focus was on physical health only. I introduced exercises that can be done even while sitting on a chair,” she says.
 
 The focus is only on psychosomatic ailments like stress, diabetes, hypertension among officers who are above 45 years of age, adds Vazalwar.
 
 Also for the first time this year, a module on emotional policing was introduced in the syllabus, informs RSI Sunil  . “Citizens are not our enemies, rather our friends. We are trying to understand them better and mould ourselves with the changes taking place in the society. Emotional policing teaches how we can deal with stress and anger better and not let it hamper our behaviour towards public,” he added.
 
 Principal Shital Vanjari saw the first batch passing out since her posting. “This year, apart from yoga and emotional intelligence, many new things were introduced – digital classes, open air gymnasium and sessions with experts. I hope the students utilize whatever they have learnt here,” she says. 
 
