BENGALURU: Police had a strong suspicion that someone known to Sharath and his family was behind the   as there was no sign of him being forcibly taken away. “We questioned his neighbours, classmates, friends and relatives but failed to get any clue. We later observed that Vishal H, one of the family's neighbours, would visit Sharath's house every day and enquire about the police probe. We started keeping a watch on him," a senior police officer said.Earlier this week, a   team, which was also following the case, detained him for questioning." But Sharath's father Niranjan spoke to us and said Vishal was a family friend and could not have abducted his son," a police source said, following which the cops let go Vishal. The other police teams, however, kept a watch on him.

 “A technical team analyzed Vishal's phone calls. It was noticed that his mobile phone was operational where Sharath's phone was located on the day of the abduction. We also came to know that he and some of his aides frequented   and areas near   in west of Bengaluru," the source said.
 
 “On Thursday evening, Vishal and his aides were interrogated again, and soon they confessed to committing the crime," the police said.
 
 Police denied that Sharath was part of the abduction plot. Preliminary inquiry has found that his abductors had no criminal antecedents.
 
 A police team took the four later in the midnight to Ajjanakatte, 40km from Bengaluru, where they showed the place where they buried Sharath, following which some constables were deputed there, till more cops and Sharath's family members arrived at the spot on Friday morning.
 
 A huge media contingent and local residents also gathered at the spot notwithstanding the powerful stench that had engulfed the area.
 
 The abandoned quarry near where Sharath was buried is about 3km from Ajjanakatte.The road that leads to the quarry sees no vehicles for most part of the day, locals said.
 
 Police had to erect a pandal near the quarry for doctors to conduct the body's postmortem. Sharath's body was exhumed around 8am in the presence of his father. The body was later handed over to the family.
 
