KOCHI: Pizhalayil pazhila. It means nothing is wasted in Pizhala, a tiny   known for its fertile pokkali paddy fields and abundant marine wealth.But, on Saturday evening, the islanders knew something mammoth had been wasted as their long-cherished dream of getting connected to the mainland received a crushing blow when the Rs 82 crore Pizhala­Moolampilly bridge (that was being constructed) collapsed before their eyes.

 Throughout Sunday, people flocked both sides of the island and stared for hours, as if in deep mourning, at the devastated structure, clicked pictures on their cell phones with a vengeance, while blaming the administration for such callous work.
 
 Damodaran (76), who lives near the panchayat office ­ nearly 1km away from the bridge ­ witnessed the damaged bridge. “The demand for a bridge connecting Pizhala with mainland is more than 20 years old. Concrete roads have come up here and vehicles are plying, but we need a bridge connecting mainland,“ he said.
 
 Roselin Peter, who was going to her in-laws house on Saturday, was among the few who actually saw the bridge coming down like a pack of cards: “I was in the junkar.While crossing over to Pizhala, I heard a loud sound. I saw one of the girders of the bridge coming down and then it was raining concrete after that.“
 
 Jaison, who witnessed the accident from the shore said that the impact of the collapse of the beams into the water was such that there was a white haze in the air and he could not see anything on the other side.
 
 The beams, weighing around 223 tonnes, had collapsed when the steel girders supporting it came down.The 607m long and 9.5m wide bridge had four beams and three pillars. The construction of the first two beams that collapsed were completed two month ago.
 
 People who saw the de struction said that the five main workers on the site engaged in works were fortunate as they were not around when the disaster struck. “As we rushed to the spot, we found a migrant labourer in the water, crying for help. We threw a hose in his direction and pulled him out,“   said.
 
 Island residents, for long, have been travelling in junkars or country-made rafts from three points to reach mainland. This is the first in a series of bridges, which were mooted to connect Pizhala with mainland on Moolampilly­Chathanad road. Two more bridges are coming up.
 
 The   was in charge of the construction of the bridge. The estimated cost was Rs 82 crore and it was funded by Goshree Islands Development Authority ( ). The beams which fell in the water were 44m long and over 2.7m tall.
 
 Pizhala, surrounded by the Periyar, is part of Kadamakudy grama panchayat and the crime rate here is almost zero. “We have been joking that the bridge will bring in development. But we may also have to close our front doors before sleeping. It seems ironical that the bridge came down even as we had these minor concerns,“ said Roselin.
 
