HYDERABAD: Close to 40 hours after the   and hailstorm, several parts of the city, even on Thursday afternoon, were found littered with broken tree trunks and branches that had fallen prey to Tuesday’s gusty winds. Civic teams attending to the mayhem did not transport these broken trees out of the sites and instead only pushed them to the side of the roads to temporarily clear the traffic blockades.

 Over 50 trees, apart from branches, were found strewn along the footpaths and street corners in places such as   in Jubilee Hills, Road Number 7 in Banjara Hills, Yousufguda, Sri Nagar Colony and Saidabad Colony.
 
 Apart from making it difficult for residents to walk through the mess, the fallen branches piled up on the sides also raised other concerns including that of pollution and parking. “The uprooted trees have a lot of mud on them. Because they are still lying unattended, each time there is even a slight breeze the dust is flying into the house. It has become a health hazard and I sincerely hope that the authorities concerned do something about it soon,” said Manoj Kumar B, a resident of Banjara Hills, Road Number 5.
 
 At a distance, in Krishna Nagar, residents and shopkeepers complained how the tree branches lying in front of their premises have affected their movement and blocked the passage to their stores. 
 
 “Already, we have limited parking space. Now, with the tree branches here, the crisis has only heightened. My shop witnessed very thin footfalls on Thursday in comparison to other days as customers couldn’t make their way to the store,” said a trader operating in this part of town.
 
 Not surprising then, most complaints that poured into the office of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation all through Wednesday and Thursday were about precariously hanging tree branches. Officials confessed that they could resolve only a few.
 
 “We have deployed central emergency teams and our first preference is to clear the roads. Removing the trees completely will be taken up in a phased manner. We expect to clear all trees by Friday,” said Mohan Singh, superintendent engineer of central zone, who is also in-charge of the central   
 
 
