PANAJI: Following a wash-out in the   taluka in its worst electoral debacle at the state level in the 2012 assembly poll, the Congress appears to still be groping in the dark, clueless about its candidates.

 Although the party leadership had enough time to rebuild the organization, it failed to seize the opportunity. With the BJP grabbing six of seven seats and independent Rohan Khaunte taking the Porvorim segment, the Congress’ task seemed arduous. And with the filing of nominations beginning on Wednesday, the party is yet to finalize its list of candidates for Bardez.
 
 The Congress has held a few belated meetings in this coastal taluka and the prospects of its potential candidates in  , Tivim and Aldona appear to be strong. Indecision, however, has crept in, confusing party workers and ticket aspirants. 
 
 One of its tallest leaders in Bardez, Dayanand Narvekar, was the first to slip into the shadows after his humiliating loss to BJP’s   in Aldona. He re-emerged, but with a new outfit, for the 2014 Lok Sabha election. 
 
 The grand old party’s role in Mapusa has been reduced to a spectator due to deputy chief minister Francis D’Souza’s dominance for nearly two decades. The recent municipal election in Mapusa is just another indicator of the party’s failure to even put up a token fight. Mapusa block president Vijay Bhike did try to cover some ground without support, sources said. Significantly, he is the lone candidate in Mapusa. 
 
 In the past, the Congress faced the problem of plenty in Mapusa. Too many ticket aspirants ultimately dented its fortune, with many proceeding to align with D’Souza.
 
 In Siolim, the party’s organization was virtually non-existent. Former Congress candidate and Verla-Canca sarpanch Milton Marques, and ex-Sodiem sarpanch Francis Fernandes, have been at loggerheads, wrecking their own and the party’s chances. In the 2012 poll, the party chose Uday Palyekar as its candidate at the last minute. Now, Marques and the Palyekar brothers Uday and Vinod have joined Goa Forward Party (GFP). Vinod has been declared as GFP’s Siolim candidate. 
 
 After the Palyekar brothers’ exit, Congress veteran and ex-minister  , is dusting his boots to contest again from Siolim. 
 
 Following Narvekar’s exit, the party’s North Goa district in-charge Amarnath Panjikar, spokesperson Trajan D’Mello and four othersincluding Khaunte’s brother Rajeshare in the fray for the Aldona seat. If the last poll can be considered an aberration, Aldona has always been a Congress bastion and most aspirants are riding on this piece of history.
 
 A similar saga has been unfolding in Calangute and Saligao. While the Calangute seat was earlier earmarked for deputy sarpanch Joseph Sequeira, and Saligao seat for Agnelo Fernandes, Tulio D’Souza’s claim for a ticket in Saligao has queered the pitch.
 
 For three terms, the Tivim seat was allotted to the NCP. Most Congress workers backed Nilkant Halarnkar, who has now rejoined and is a strong contender in Tivim.
 
 Congress has a few candidates on its list for Porvorim. Its block, under the leadership of Prasad Fatarpekar, was formed barely a year ago.
 
 Time is running out for the party in Bardez, with the high command likely to give two seats to GFP.
 
 
