Noted   Neeti Mohan has become the first Indian female singer to collaborate with UN for  
 
  She has joined the ranks of Ashton Kutcher, Nicholas Cage, Demi Moore, Ashley Judd, Gillian Anderson for   Voluntary Trust Fund project titled “Music To Inspire – Artists UNited Against Human Trafficking”.
  
  She has composed Udne De as a tribute to all the women and in support of equality for all as a part of this project.
  
  Over 60 renowned artists and dignitaries from around the world have collaborated with Rukus Avenue to participate in the “Music To Inspire – Artists UNited Against Human Trafficking” triple album that benefits the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund for Victims of Trafficking in Persons, managed by the UNODC (United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime). 
  
  This is a collective fight by the music community to make a social statement and end human trafficking. A 60+ track collection of inspiring music, will be officially released at an event at the United Nations headquarters in New York City this week.
  
    says, "Crime against women has become a global enterprise affecting nearly every country in the world. It is a crime that shames us all. I had written Udne De during the Nirbhaya incident that happened in 2012 . Post the unfortunate incident I faced this inner turmoil and felt helpless but I could never release the track because it just felt too personal. It felt like as if I was crying out loud and nobody could hear me and I still feel the same each time I read about any injustice against women at large . Everytime a heinous activity occurs, so many dreams get shattered, faith gets shaken and self esteem gets burnt alive. It can be anyone of us anywhere anytime and I wanted to take a stand on a global level. I sincerely hope and pray for a positive change in the mindset of the people."
  
  
 
  
  Some of the other participants appearing on this project include: AR Rahman, former President Jimmy Carter and actress Tatyana Ali. Other notable artists and bands include Joss Stone, Michael Franti, Vanessa Carlton, Anoushka Shankar, Ellis Hall, Garbage, Karmin as well as Daryl Hall & John Oates among many others.
  
  All proceeds from the “Music To Inspire – Artists UNited Against Human Trafficking” album will benefit the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund, as one of the largest unified fronts of artists ever assembled for a charitable music album.
  
  
 
  
  
 
