PATNA: Chewing   and smoking were the major causes of   as they accounted for 40% of all the reported cases of the deadly disease, said AIIMS-Patna (AAIMS-P) oncology department head Pritanjali Singh on Saturday.

 Addressing an awareness programme jointly organized by AIIMS-P and Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) on the occasion of  , Singh pointed out that cancer may be genetic or caused by carcinogenic materials, chemicals, radiation or pollution. It may develop in any age, but 60% cases are reported between the ages of 35 and 65 years. While in males, lung and oral cavity cancer are the most common, in females, cancers of breast, cervix, ovaries and oral cavities are found.
 
 He further pointed out that the disease was spreading at an alarming rate. “By 2030, around 22 million people will get affected by cancer every year. By changing our lifestyle, including physical exercises and avoiding junk food, we can stay away from the disease,” he added. 
 
 School of law: CUSB school of law organized a series of lectures, including ‘Role of   in Promotion and Protection of Human Rights: Emerging Challenges’ and ‘Examination of Witness under the Evidence Act: A Review’, by noted academic Manik Chakraborty from University of Burdwan’s law faculty.
 
 In his lectures, he emphasized the need to develop a more effective mechanism for promotion and protection of human rights. He also pleaded for protection of witnesses in the country. Law school dean and head Sanjay Srivastava along with faculty members attended the lectures.
 
 HAM radio training: More than 100 participants, including students from different institutions, attended a four-day HAM radio training programme organized jointly by G P Sinha Centre for Disaster Management and Rural Development, Takshila Education Society and Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries. They were explained the importance of radio call signs, urgency, distress and safety signals.
 
 Addressing the valedictory function, Bihar State Disaster Management Authority vice-chairman Vyasji said the government was aware of the importance of effective communication in implementing disaster management programmes. HAM radio licence holders would be involved as ‘aapda mitras’ (a volunteer ready to offer his services during crisis), he added.
 
 Prominent among those who spoke on the occasion were National Disaster Management Authority founder member K M Singh, Nalanda Open University former VC Ras Bihari Prasad Singh, Bihar Chamber of Commerce vice-president N K Thakur and G P Sinha Centre director Rajan Sinha. 
 
