HYDERABAD: Displaying camaraderie ahead of Sankaranti, Telangana Chief Minister   on Friday announced exemption of entertainment tax (ET) for Balakrishna-starrer ‘Gautamiputra Satakarni’. 

 KCR announced this after the actor called on him and made the request on Friday. The film is due for release on January 12. According to Balakrishna,   is a historical film and deserves the exemption. The film chronicles the life of a ruler of the Satavahana Empire. 
 
 Besides shooting at Kotilingala in Telangana, the film was shot at several historically important locations in the country.
 
 The film's first trailer was launched on December 16, 2016, at Tirumala theatre in Karimnagar. The film crew paid a visit to the famous Kotilingala temple before proceeding to the launch of the trailer. The place has significance as it was the first capital of Satavahanas in 1st century AD and came under the rule of Satakarni. Kotilingala in Karimangar district of Telangana is located on the banks of Godavari River and happens to be one of the first capitals of the Satavahana dynasty from where archaeologists excavated an ancient   temple belonging to the era.
 
 The chief minister said that the Telangana government has decided to support and encourage films based on noted personalities and historical figures. In this context, he recalled that entertainment tax exemption was given to an earlier historical film Rudrama Devi. In the future too, this policy will continue, KCR said. Thanking the Chief Minister for his generous gesture, Balakrishna said that the entire shooting of the film was completed in a record 78 days. Balakrishna also invited KCR to watch the first show of the film.
 
 Earlier, Balakrishna went to the Assembly to meet the chief minister but when he found out that KCR had left the premises, he rushed to the CM’s camp office in Telangana minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav’s vehicle and managed to meet KCR. Balakrishna, who is the Hindupur TDP MLA in the AP assembly, also interacted with Telangana TDP leaders including party working president Revanth Reddy and spent a few minutes at the TDP legislature party office.
 
