JAIPUR: Two days before the New Year’s Eve,   trying to make away with a   from a parking lot in Pratap Nagar area, when cops rummaged his pockets they found a  . Known as “master key”, these tools are behind almost all the vehicle thefts in the city.

 After carrying out multiple anti-theft operations, the cops at   found that criminals hide these home-made tools in their sleeves and sometimes even inside the turban.
 
 “They go near a bike and put the key into the navigation lock with full force of their hands. The handle of the master key is turned left and right which eventually damages the locking system,” said Kuwar Rashtradeep, deputy commissioner of police (Jaipur East).
 
 According to Rashtradeep, a skilled criminal can carry out this exercise in less than a minute.
 
 “These master keys are made at home, using knife sharpening machines and by melting the iron in order to mould it according to their needs,” he added.
 
 These bikes are sold at illegal markets near Dausa and Sawai Madhopur. A criminal earns Rs 5,000 by selling one four-gear-bike in the market. “These bikes are often dismantled and every part is sold separately,” cops said.
 
 The cops busted the modus operandi of these gangs and have been able to recover a record number of 300 bikes. “We earmarked most crime-prone areas like Pratap Nagar and Sanganer. Cops in civil cloths would wait for suspicious vehicle lifter, even before the criminal could pull out the key, the cops would catch him,” DCP told TOI.
 
 The police have laid several of such traps knowns as ‘preventive operations’ in areas like Malviya Nagar, Sanganer, Pratap Nagar and Jawahar Circle where the criminals were caught red-handed while trying to make away with the vehicles.
 
 “There is a sharp decline in number of vehicle lifting; in 2015 we registered 2,632 cases, which has gone down to 2,347 in 2016,” Rashtadeep added.
 
 He added that cops can now identify the suspect by its very appearance as the way in which he hides the master key.
 
