KOLKATA: The members of a Haltu club were in for a shock on Tuesday night when cops informed them that the octogenarian they had rescued and admitted to a hospital had gone missing. The hospital authorities said the woman had been untraceable since Monday. And though the Jadavpur police have registered a missing case, they are yet to get any leads on her whereabouts.

 Exactly a week back, members of Nandibagan’s   rescued a homeless 80-year-old woman who was loitering near the SD-8 bus stand. They brought the woman, suffering from severe memory loss and acute bronchitis, into the club, fed her, looked after her for 48 hours and got her admitted to the MR Bangur Hospital with help from cops. 
 
 According to Garfa and Jadavpur police, this development came under dramatic circumstances. “A man who introduced himself as a Kasba resident came to us saying the rescued woman might be his mother. At the hospital though, he eventually refused to identify the woman. We are not sure if the woman picked up on the conversation or if she decided to leave on her own — just like she left the Haltu club a day after the members rescued her. However, unlike last time when she was found in the club vicinity, she could not be traced near the hospital after Monday,” said an officer from Garfa.
 
 The incident has upset   — the 62-year-old retired CSTC employee who was assaulted for protesting against alcoholism and use of abusive language more than a month ago — and his son Kaustav. The latter, an active member of the club, said: “My friend received the news of the missing woman first. We then collectively checked the authenticity of the information with cops. I think we have to redouble the effort to track her ourselves. But for my father — who will now forever struggle to cope with excessive bright light — this comes as a shock. We hope the administration becomes more responsive towards the concerns of commoners like us.”
 
 The woman was found wandering around aimlessly on September 5 before members of the local   spotted her and asked her to share her address with them. The octogenarian was convinced to spend the night at the club. “Since the pandal of the   is located nearby, we have someone or the other on night vigil. We asked them to keep an eye on the woman’s condition,” said club member Tapas Chakraborty. The next day, when she wanted to leave on her own, a Facebook hunt for her relatives was launched by some of the younger members. By September 7, though, her condition worsened and she was admitted to MR Bangur Hospital. 
 
 
