HYDERABAD: Bowing to pressure from all quarters, the Telangana government decided to put the Private Universities Bill on the back burner. It now wants to wait till the University Grants Commission (UGC) finalises the guidelines to confer the World Class Institute (WCI) status to any Indian university or educational institutions before moving forward on the Bill. 

 The cabinet sub-committee, headed by deputy chief minister  , tried in vain to arrive at a consensus on finding out the modalities to set up private universities in the state. But after it encountered several issues including implementing the reservations, job quota and land allocation, the committee has decided to wait till the UGC comes out with final proposals.
 
 "The union government announced an initiative as part of the 2016 budget to provide an enabling architecture to 10 public and 10 private institutions to emerge as world-class teaching and research bodies. In October 2016 the, UGC released draft guidelines for public and private institutes who wish to put in their proposal for being categorised as a WCI," deputy CM Kadiam Srihari told TOI. 
 
 He said the UGC draft guidelines offer greater autonomy and flexibility to the institutes having WCI status. The institutes will have some freedom to fix fees, especially in case of foreign students, and in terms of spending the money raised and allocated to them. The state government has now decided to wait for a national level consensus based on the UGC final proposals. The HRD ministry also communicated to the state governments not to hurry on the legislation as the centre does not want different laws related to educational institutions being enacted by different states. 
 
 Other political parties and TJAC also opposed the proposal. "There are plans to hand over thousands of acres of prime land in and around Hyderabad for some private companies in the name of private universities. This will not help students or education system as the private players are only concerned about their profits," A  , TDP working president said. 
 
 
