MUMBAI: The MMRDA has begun work on an important east-west connector, which will significantly reduce   near the BKC-Kalanagar junction and BKC-Dharavi Link Road.

 The Santracruz-Chembur Link Road (SCLR) extension project will originate from Kapadia Nagar on CST Road near Kurla and terminate at the Vakola junction on the Western Express Highway (WEH).
 
 SCLR, which was opened in April 2014, has not realized its full potential because of bottlenecks in Kurla west. However, the key east-west connector has ensured that commuters do no have to travel from the Eastern Express Highway (EEH) at Chember, all the way towards Sion to reach the WEH at Bandra.
 
 MMRDA said that the need for the extension was felt due to traffic snarls at Kapadia Nagar junction and Vakola flyover. “The contractor appointed has begun work on the site by installing barricades at regular intervals along CST Road,” said MMRDA’s chief engineer DT Thube. 
 
 An MMRDA official added, “The work on soil testing has begun and once the monsoon is over the contractor will begin work on constructing the foundation and pillars.” The work on the Rs 415-crore project is expected to be completed by 2019. Apart from 3.8km elevated road, the MMRDA will also build an arm towards the MTNL junction on BKC Road under this project.Motorists taking the SCLR extension from the Vakola-end will be able to take a right turn via the 1.1km road and reach the MTNL junction on BKC Road.
 
 A senior official said, “Traffic movement will be impacted to some extent on CST Road because of barricades, but we have taken precautions. With the help of the traffic police, we will ensure that there is no unauthorized parking that can hamper the smooth flow of traffic.”
 
 MMRDA has also planned a BKC connector that will travel from the Eastern Express Highway near Somaiya College to BKC. The Rs 150-crore BKC-EEH elevated road project in progress will also reduce the load on SCLR to some extent. The 1.6km corridor will pass via LBS Road, Mithi River and Central Railway tracks.
 
 BKC has witnessed a huge increase in traffic as many corporates have relocated there.
 
