TRICHY: Unconvinced by the clarifications offered by the state government about the positive effects of measles rubella (MR)   on children, several parents here have preferred to avoid the vaccination for their children. The union government had chosen Tamil Nadu as one of the few states to roll out the vaccination for measles-rubella to replace measles vaccination from February 6 when a month-long drive would be launched. 

 With just over a couple of days left for the commencement of the vaccination programme, parents of several children in government, government-aided and private schools have raised objections to the drive. While they cite possible adverse effects as reason, a message against the vaccination on WhatsApp has also added to the confusion. The programme is intended for children in the age group of nine months to 15 years in schools and anganwadi centres. 
 
 “While some are happy with the vaccination, many have opposed it and don’t want to be compelled. As academicians, we cannot offer technical explanations to the parents about the efficacy of the vaccine. It is for the health department to allay fears in this regard. Unfortunately, they are not coming forward to conduct awareness programmes despite our appeal,” said principal of Vasavi Vidhyalayam Matriculation School in Trichy T Paavai.
 
 Even after state health minister Dr C   clarified that there will be no side effects, people have been remaining circumspect. Hence, the health department has asked schools to get consent from the parents for the vaccination. “As told by the health department, we are sending letters to the parents. They are mostly opposing it. They believe the rumour on WhatsApp and feel that the government is trying to achieve a target,” said correspondent of   matriculation school in Trichy R Sahayaraj. 
 
 However, the medicos are endorsing the vaccination as a good one. “ This confusion is because of false propaganda against the vaccination. The health department should go to the schools and explain it to the parents,” said president of Trichy chapter of Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP) Dr PR Rathinam. 
 
 Department of public health has been promoting the vaccination stating that it is not a new one. “Measles Mumps Rubella (MMR) is being administered in private hospitals for nearly 15 years. Now, our government is going to provide MR vaccine to protect all children from rubella and congenital anomaly. So, there is no need to panic,” said deputy director of health services (DDHS), Trichy Dr I Raveendran.
 
 
