NEW DELHI: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ( ) sarsanghchalak   is on a mission to prove that the organisation he heads is inclusive and thinks only of national interest. 

 To increase its acceptability, especially among the intelligentsia, he’s been on a special Vishesh Sampark outreach mission in the last three years. As part of this, he has met industrialists, artists, educationists, diplomats, journalists and traders. In more than 200 meetings across the country, he’s met people like  ,  , Lata Mangeshkar and Aamir Khan, talking to them about the role of the Sangh in the country's growth. 
 
 He hosted Tata earlier this year in the Sangh’s Nagpur headquarters and showed him how an RSS shakha runs. He’s also had a long discussion with actor Ajay Devgn on how popular cinema can be used to promote social causes. On the political side, he has met MPs across party lines under the age of 45 and spoken to them on nation building, how the legislature should function and how everyone should work toward making every day of parliament productive. 
 
 At a breakfast in Bengaluru organised by BJP general secretary Ram Madhav recently, Bhagwat addressed diplomats from 80 countries, answering their questions on Kashmir, the Ram temple, Muslims, national security, the RSS notion of Hindu Rashtra, its growing influence on the government and the nation, its expansion plans, and its campaigns against China and Pakistan among others. 
 
 Over the past few days, the RSS chief has met Grandhi Mallikarjuna Rao, the founder chairman of GMR Group, and chairman of Force Motors, Abhay Firodia. Bhagwat's meetings with these “influential non-RSS people” are planned meticulously and each has three stages. He is first introduced to the audience and every member in the audience introduced to him. He then talks about the Sangh's core philosophy, how people can contribute to the national interest and current affairs. The third and most important part of the meeting--ranging from one to two hours--is for audience questions about the Sangh. 
 
  
  
 RSS communications chief Aniruddha Deshpande said it was a conscious decision to avoid the format of “public meetings” with minimal publicity. Deshpande said “many misunderstandings are cleared out… When Mohanji speaks to them, they know it is all the truth and it is the organisation's stand. The programmes as of now are restricted to urban areas of the country but will soon be taken to smaller towns as well,” he said. 
 
 Bhagwat differs in this respect from most of his predecessors, save one. “Former RSS chief   was more like him as he would often meet even Mulayam Singh Yadav. The ones before him mostly focussed on internal activities of the Sangh, talking to political leaders only when necessary," a senior leader said. His closest aides say Bhagwat travels 20-25 days a month, of which at least a dozen meetings are reserved for meeting influential people from various sections of society. The Vishesh Sampark programme was started in 2007 but has grown significantly in the last few years. 
 
 Bhagwat said earlier this year that intellectuals have started inquiring about the RSS, believing that “only the Sangh could do something good for the society. Today, society wants to be part of the Sangh as they believe that it would do something good for the society,” Bhagwat had said. In the past year, he has met traders and industrialists in sessions that were mostly focussed on   and the goods and services tax (GST), which the RSS chief is said to have supported. 
  
 “He listened to their problems but has made it clear that it is national interest that matters the most and, often, bitter pills are necessary to set course correction,” a leader said. Among the most interesting meetings were those with educationists and vice chancellors in Delhi, Mumbai, Pune and Bengaluru, said RSS leaders. “He always emphasizes teaching in the mother tongue at least at primary level. This has often led to an interesting exchange of ideas. Also, the Sangh has a specific interest in education,” an RSS leader said. 
 
 “Bhagwat is a voracious reader, especially books on sociology and biographies. He has gone through several roles in the Sangh. He was looking after physical education work, education and pracharaks, so he takes a specific interest in education.” He recentlymet former army officers to talk about national security, which was the Sangh's theme at its annual conference in Mathura two weeks ago. 
 
 “He listened to what their experiences and observations were. All his discussions are two way, because he wants to know about society too. He is candid with his replies and there is complete honesty in these meetings," Deshpande said. A few days ago, while on tour in Gujarat, Bhagwat made a brief stopover of about an hour at the Lakshmi Vilas Palace to meet the royal family of Vadodara. During the Sangh’s All India Executive with pracharaks from all 44 pranths recently, Bhagwat invited intellectuals from different sections of society, including teachers, lawyers, engineers, medical professionals and businessmen, to meet the pracharaks and facilitate an exchange of ideas between them. “It was like a ‘baudhik ghoshti’ (intellectual summit). 
 
 There was a lot of exchange of views," an RSS leader said. Last year, he met   leaders Aditya and Uddhav Thackeray, days after the BJP ally had complained about demonetisation. Those close to him also recalled in 2009, at a time when the west was looking at the RSS-BJP with a lot of suspicion, Bhagwat held a long meeting with representatives from 20 European countries, explaining how their perceptions of the organisation were not fair. In 2015, days after a lynching incident in Dadri shook the nation, Mohan Bhagwat met Muslim intellectuals and explained how the Sangh had nothing to do with the violence against members of the community in incidents related to beef consumption and cow slaughter. 
 
 Amonth later he again met Muslim leaders at Delhi’s Haryana Bhavan as a follow-up. He also had a meeting with writers and journalists working with foreign media houses in a discussion largely focussed on the "insincerity in Pakistan's promises." Earlier this year, hours before the former president demitted office, Bhagwat met Pranab Mukherjee. This was not the first time that Mukherjee had met Bhagwat. In 2015 too, the RSS chief exchanged views about the state of the nation with Mukherjee. He even made a special visit to late singer Bhimsen Joshi's house to talk about the classical arts and ways to take them to the masses. 
 
 “RSS is not a compartmentalised organisation. It is a social organisation. As it grows, we see the need to reach out to as many people as we can to explain what we stand for. We want them to understand us. For instance,Ratan Tata was very anxious to see how an RSS shakha works,” Deshpande said.
 
 
 
 
 
