It looks like cricketer Subramani am   is now busy prepar ing for the upcoming Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL). The cricketer, opens up to CT about cricketing talents in the state, contest for the   and more... Badrinath believes that   is a great platform for youngsters to prove their mettle as they play alongside veteran players. So, are players getting noticed more in TNPL than Ranji Trophy? He says, “I don't think you can compare the two as both are different formats of the game. You can't jump into the national side just by performing well in TNPL. The league gives a platform to perform in Ranji and IPL. It's all about spotting talent.“

 So, who does Badrinath think will make it to the playoffs in TNPL? “I think Tuti Patriots have a good chance of making it to the playoffs. They are the best team on paper. The TNPL's draft was set up in a way that the expensive team gets to pick the players first and they ended up having the best team. But you can't just go by the team on paper. Sometimes we surprise ourselves, especially in T20 matches, it's all about execution and playing good cricket on the given day .“
 
 Talking about the cricketing talents in the state, he says, “I think Coimbatore has some good talent. Take the case of Aushik Srinivas and Narayan Jagadeesan. They have been doing well in the recent years, and I've played alongside them. All they need is exposure and TNPL is helping the cause.No one knew a bowler like T Natarajan existed until TNPL found him. He eventually went onto play for the Punjab team in IPL.“
 
 As the race for the Indian cricket coach hots up, we ask Badrinath who is he rooting for and pat comes the reply . “I am not rooting for anyone in particular. But I believe the coach should be given a longer run. One year is too short to judge the caliber of a coach. They should be given a mini mum of two to three years. Creating backups for players like Virat Kohli, Mahendra Singh Dhoni or Jasprit Bumrah is the role of the coach. To do all this, they need more time.“
 
 Badrinath is excited that the Chennai team is back in IPL after a twoyear hiatus. “I am happy , but, it's too early to talk about it. Let's see how things unfold.“ Recalling his favourite memory playing for the team, he says, “In 2010, we lost five of our first seven games and everybody wrote us off. Later, we won six matches in a row. There was a match against the Punjab team, which we won to qualify for the playoffs and later, went on to win the tournament. I scored fifty plus in that match. It takes a lot of mental effort to win after being down in a tournament.“
 
 Badrinath believes that a good batsman should have strong basics. “The basics are the same in all formats. You can call South African cricketer AB de Vil liers a 360 degree player. His fun damentals are very strong. It helps you perform well. If your basics are strong you can adapt to any format of the game,“ he signs off. 
 
