This will enable minimum human interface between filmmakers and mired-in-controversy   officials
Plagued by controversies over unnecessary cuts, the Censor   of Film Certification, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, today launched Online Film Certification System or E-Cinepramaan.
 “This is a big step towards making the   paperless and transparent, enabling effective monitoring and real-time progress tracking for applicants,“ I&B minister Venkaiah Naidu asserted.
 
 This will enable minimum interface between film producers and censor board officials. Producers will be able to track the status of their application online and will also be informed through smses and e-mails and if any action is needed. The system also has inbuilt alerts to ensure that time-limits are adhered to.
 
 For short films, promos and trailers of less than 10 minutes' duration, producers need not even visit the CBFC office or theatre.They can submit their films online.
 
 For films longer than 10 minutes, the applicants will only have to screen the film at the Examining Committee theatre and won't be required to visit the CBFC Offices except to collect their certificates.
 
 This, the government claims, is the first step toward overhauling the Board. The I & B Ministry had earlier instituted a committee under veteran filmmaker   to recommend changes in the CBFC's functioning. The committee submitted its report last April, suggesting new categories of certification and recommending the Board to enforce fewer cuts. The committee also recommended that the CBFC only be a film certification body whose scope is restricted to deciding which category of audience the film is suitable for on the basis of age and maturity. The report has yet to be implemented.
 
 “The government will revisit the entire process of film certification and how it can be restructured. We have begun the process of consultations on the   report,“ Naidu informed, adding that the government is proactively taking steps to smoothen the permission processes. He pointed to the Film Facilitation Office, a single window clearance facility for foreign filmmakers, as an example.
 
 The FFO was established by the I & B Ministry in November 2015. Naidu claimed that 41 shooting permissions were granted in 2016 which is nearly 33 per cent increase over the previous year.
 
 
 
