After five Delhi   officials were suspended for allegedly killing a fruit seller in custody, Tamil filmmaker   made the film 'Visaranai' (Interrogation) based on the custodial death, which was India’s official entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the Oscars. The director, who was recently in the capital, spoke about his film that depicts police brutality and corruption, his experiences in Delhi and more. Excerpts:

 
 The director says that he is glad that everyone believed in his film. Vetrimaaran told us, "The violence in Visaranai is based on reality. The custodial death is not a story of just  , Delhi or Mumbai. It is the reality everywhere. It was a story of cops who didn’t care about who committed the crime, they just wanted a confession. There was no agenda, but I wanted to lay focus on the violation of human rights." He added, "One of my staff members told me that after the release of the film, whenever a custodial death is reported, people say – ‘Another Visaranai’. This is the kind of change that I am looking for; it should hit you hard. The suffering undergone by the four characters is symbolic of thousands of faceless people behind prison walls, waiting for justice."
 
 The director who believes there’s no escaping the system told us, "After the film was released, I met several police officials, including constables, DCPs, IGs and others. They all had an opinion about the film, but all of them agreed that it is reality. In fact, the IG of the National   in Hyderabad invited me at the Police Academy for a special screening of the film. He appreciated it; they all do, but then they tell me – “We also do good work, you should make a film on that also (laughs)."
 
  
  A still from 'Visaranai' that depicts police brutality and corruption in India
 
 
 
 When asked about his experiences of visiting Delhi, the filmmaker, who has also produced 'Kaaka Muttai' (a Tamil film which got two National Awards) told us, “I usually come here to collect my National Awards.” He further said that he didn’t have many pleasant things to share about the capital, and that his Delhi experiences should rather be off the record. Recalling an experience, he said, “Once, a man at the customs duty check at the   asked me a question in Hindi, and I told him that I didn’t speak the language. He got angry and said, ‘How could you not speak in Hindi? Hindi is our mother tongue.’ I told him that it wasn’t my mother tongue. He got furious, and made me wait for over 45 minutes.”
 
 
