KOCHI: Though the Kochi corporation intends to complete the construction of Ro-Ro jetties at   and Vypeen by April 30, the works continue to move at a snail's pace. 

  As public pressure mounts against the stopping of jankar services, the local body is unable to reach a consensus on facilitating the construction works.
 
 "There is a requirement to bring in a huge barge for carrying out piling works in the water. At Fort Kochi it will become impossible for jankars to berth at the jetty when a barge is moored at the site. So jankar services will have to be suspended," said an official with the local body. 
 
 He said that piling works and construction of piers were necessary to ensure safety of Ro-Ro vessels berthed in the waters with strong currents.
 
 Officials associated with the project are of the view that the district collector should also intervene in the issue and monitor the progress of the work. 
 
 "The   (CSL) has warned that idling the vessels would lead to damage of its mechanical parts. The shipyard even expressed willingness to train vessel drivers to impart training due to the uniqueness of its propellers. Either the city corporation or any other agency which has the expertise for handing public transportation systems should take delivery of these vessels," said an official.
 
 The shipyard has constructed two Ro-Ro vessels for the local body, each weighing about 150 tonnes, which can carry another 60 tonnes including commuters and vehicles. 
 
 The vessels are built spending Rs 7.6 crore as per the specifications of   (IRS). 
 
 The task of constructing jetties is entrusted with   (CPT) for an amount of Rs 7.4 crore.
 
 Meanwhile, those opposing suspension of jankar services said people would have to travel 18km from Fort Kochi to reach Palarivattom metro station and this would take more than one-and-half hours. 
 
 "These services also help to bring down traffic congestion in the city," said Basheer, a regular commuter on the route.
 
 According to employees with the jankar they operate 64 trips a day using two vessels and each vessel operates 16 hours a day. 
 
 "It cost just Rs 3 per person to take the ferry," said Basheer. 
 
 In the last meeting convened to speed up the construction of RO-RO jetties a decision was taken to conduct a trail on whether it would be possible to operate Ro-Ro vessels without carrying out piling works. 
 
 However, Kochi corporation maintained that while constructing jetty at Fort Kochi factors like high tide, low tide and strong water currents would have to be taken into account. Sometimes the workers would have to dewater the site for proceeding with construction works.
 
 
