, 29, once an accused in the rape and murder of pharmacy student Ayesha Meera, was acquitted by the high court. Resident of Anasagaram village of Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh, Satyam was in Hyderabad on Saturday. This was his first visit to the city after the acquittal. His mother, Mariamma, who accompanied him, expressed relief. She always maintained her son was not guilty. “I knew my son was framed and he would be released. I am grateful to God. He heard my prayer,“ she said. “I missed her all these years and I will take care of her now,“ Satyam Babu said.

 Ayesha Meera was raped and murdered on December 27, 2007. After unsuccessfully trying to implicate three others in the case, police arrested Satyam Babu on August 17, 2008. Lower court gave him a life sentence on September 29, 2009. But High Court in Hyderabad acquitted him in the case on March 31, 2017. He walked out of   on April 2, 2017. 
 
 
 
 The court concluded I was guilty and asked if I had anything to say. That's when I said if the court was convinced, I may as well be hanged.What else could I have said? I was innocent.
 
 
 Bojja Tarakam fought my case. I am sad he is no more today . After the court pronounced me guilty , he put his hand around my shoulder and said this case would not stand scrutiny in high court and I should not lose heart.
 
 
 I worked on giving finishing touches to almirahs manufactured in jail. I knew my case was in high court. I would pray for justice. I was disciplined and remained engrossed in work.
 
 
 Yes, I did. In fact, I contemplated suicide. I was suffering for no fault of mine. As I thought death would be the only way out, I remembered my mother and younger sister. People would tell them that I committed suicide out of guilt. I did not want them to bear the ignominy .I decided to stay strong. Another occasion I cried was when my father died, when I was in jail.
 
 
 I once cried in courtroom when I saw Ayesha Meera's mother Shamshad Begum. Her grief brought tears to my eyes.She had all along said I was not the accused. If I am free today, it is because of her.
 
 
 When I was arrested, my legs were fine. I developed a rare nerv ous syndrome in jail.I could not walk. I was treated at  's In stitute of Medical Sciences and I have recovered. But the problem still lingers.
 
 
 I was beaten up. I was stomped upon. I was hammered on my legs and soles, which disabled the nerves.
 
 
 Police also had a video and it was played out on television? Police threatened to kill my mother and sister, if I did not own up to the crime. I did not want them to die. I did not mind going to jail to save them. But whether I owned up to the crime or not, mine and my family's fate was sealed.
 
 
 Precious years have been lost.But, I want to work to earn my living. If I am given agriculture land, I want to do farming. A job from the government will help as I have a younger sister and mother to take care of. Our hut in the village got burnt. We need a house.
 
 
 I was taking part in Christmas celebrations in my village. In fact, I was dancing there. But at 11 pm on August 17, 2008, police came to my house and arrested me for a crime I did not commit.
 
