Hyderabad: BJP veteran M   Naidu, the NDA vice-presidential candidate, on Friday was not sure that his mingling with a sizeable crowd of admirers was something that he would be able to do so once his election as India’s next V-P, becomes a reality. He was also unsure if he would get another opportunity to speak freely in future due to the protocol issues that come along with that position.

 And so, on Friday, the BJP stalwart opened up to his admirers and well-wishers in a speech that lasted nearly 45 minutes. Missing were his trademark rhyming phrases, a trait that has endeared him to many and frustrated many a political opponent.
 
 On a more serious note, Venkaiah Naidu addressed some of the allegations hurled at him in the recent past. Referring to the charges that his son, who runs an automobile business, had profited from his position, Venkaiah Naidu said, “I have never interfered in my son’s or daughter’s businesses. In fact, I did not know much about his business and asked him only after the allegations were made. I was informed that it was a government contract with the manufacturer and the dealership that delivered the vehicles received a commission from the company.”
 
 He said “people stuck in mud cannot but help throw stones at those who wear a clean white shirt.” 
 
 He also said he wanted to set the record straight on reports of his being reduced to tears after his candidature was announced for the V-P election. “I am not enamoured by any post.” “The party has been my mother. It gave me everything. My candidature was announced at 7.30 and, in five minutes, I resigned from the cabinet, sent back the government car and left the party. My life from the very beginning of my activity in the party flashed before me. The thought crossed my mind that I will never again step into the BJP office at 11 Ashoka Road. I could not hold back and cried for about 10 minutes. It was not because I was no longer a minister as some media speculated or not because of something to do with Andhra Pradesh or Telangana. I was overwhelmed at the thought of abandoning my mother,” he said. 
 
 
