BATHINDA: In a field that is considered a male domain, two young girls have been making waves at AAP’s election rallies.

 Meet 18-year-old Navjot Kaur from Lambi’s Kheowali village and 22-year-old Narinder Kaur of Bharat village in Sangrur. The two have turned into quite the crowd-pullers for  , as they take on the Akali Dal, drug menace, mafias operational in Punjab, and many other ills afflicting the state in their speeches.
 
 None of them hails from a political family. Narinder had hogged the limelight in May 2014 parliamentary elections when she had manned the polling booth of AAP candidate Bhagwant Mann in her village when party workers expressed inability to manage the booth, Navjot came to the limelight in January when she shared the stage with AAP supremo   at Kolianwali village when the party announced the candidature of Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh from Lambi assembly constituency against Parkash Singh Badal.
 
 Navjot and Narinder have become an integral part of the party’s campaign in Lambi and Sangrur. Narinder is also sparing time to campaign in Jalalabad for her mentor Bhagwant Mann.
 
 Narinder is pursuing MA in sociology from Punjabi University, Patiala, while Navjot is in the first year of BSc (non-medical) at Baba Farid Institute, Bathinda. “When I would travel in public buses from my village to Patiala while pursuing graduation, I faced a lot of hardships due to the mad rush. Many a times, I faced vulgar remarks from drug-addicted youths,” Narinder told TOI. “Drugs are so rampant that I had to face them at my home. When I saw my agriculturist father Gurnam Singh addicted to poppy and opium, I made him shun drugs and now am working for youths to shun drugs.”
 
 For Navjot, joining politics was important because “administrative system and governance has badly collapsed in Punjab”. “It needs an overhaul. Farmers, too, are at the crossroads and are committing suicides. I am raising my voice for the restoration of the faith of people in governments; this would be possible when governments shed their corrupt approach. I hope AAP will provide clean governance,” said Navjot, who invokes the name of martyr Bhagat Singh in every election meeting.
 
 
