GURUGRAM: The   is looking for a catchphrase to label villages or towns that will achieve ‘housing for all’, and has invited residents to come up with an attractive tagline for the   (PMAY).

 To encourage a large participation, the government has decided to give a cash award of Rs 50,000 for the best tagline.
 
 The government has also decided to replace the mandatory affidavit — that a beneficiary needs to submit now stating that he does not own any house, among others — with a self-declaration on a piece of paper to make the entire process hassle-free and fast.
 
 The decisions were taken at a review meeting on PMAY held in Chandigarh on Wednesday. Chaired by Rajesh Khullar, the principal secretary to the chief minister, the meeting was also attended by   chairman  , who is in-charge of statewide planning and monitoring of the scheme. 
 
 Khullar directed officers to announce a competition on the official website of the town and country planning department. “One who will be able to suggest the best tagline for the scheme will be rewarded with prize money of Rs 50,000. It will be applicable for both rural and urban areas,” he said.
 
 Further, for speedy and seamless implementation of the scheme, Khullar said beneficiaries were not needed to submit affidavits anymore. Currently, a beneficiary is required to submit an affidavit, declaring his financial background and housing status, attested by a gazetted officer, to avail the credit-linked subsidy and affordable houses under PMAY. “Replace affidavits with self-declarations. Necessary amendments should be made in the rules at the earliest to implement the change,” he added.
 
 The officials have been directed to take services of unemployed youth through Saksham portal for conducting survey to identify beneficiaries in urban areas. Khullar asked all departments, boards and municipal corporations, involved in the implementation of the scheme, to work in tandem to achieve the targets both in urban and rural areas.
 
 “A special task force, under the chairmanship of chief minister Manohar Lal, has been constituted for effective implementation of the scheme and to ensure that each family in the state owns a house by 2019,” said housing board chairman Yadav.
 
 Around 32,000 beneficiaries have been identified during a recent survey in rural areas. A similar survey will be launched in urban areas on June 1 to find out eligible people. About 1.8 lakh houses will be constructed under the scheme in the urban areas.
 
 
