Waste not, want not. The popular saying has caught up with  ,   that are stirring up a campaign of sorts by putting up   and notices that urge students, staff and guests not to waste food.

 Much before   expressed concern about wastage of food at the monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme a fortnight ago, Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), one of India’s largest multinational companies, had put up signboards at its canteens across the country, which stipulate the amount of food wasted each day and how many people could have been fed with that quantity.
 
 The practice was initiated by one of its teams that look after the canteen at its Bengaluru office in 2015. The image of the signboard went viral and the employees’ overwhelming response led to its wider implementation.
 
 As a TCS spokesperson put it, “it became a topic of interest”.
 
 She added that it has led to employees being more careful of the amount of food they took on the plate and imbibed awareness about wastage of food among the employees.
 
 Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, which hosts thousands of students every year, did it long before. A year ago, it put up signboards at all its hostels, indicating the amount of food wasted.
 
 “It has led to awareness among students, who avoid wasting food. The implications of food wastage are tremendous. For example, if we cook for 20 people, then the resources spent will be according to that. So, if less number of people turn up to eat, it is gross wastage,” said Falguni Banerjee, public relations officer at the institute.
 
 The institute prepares compost from domestic waste, which includes food. This, Banerjee said, helped in putting the food that would otherwise go to waste, to good use.
 
 Sodexo, one of the largest multinationals that also deal in facility management, was at the forefront of introducing the concept of signifying wastage through signboards in India nearly seven years ago.
 
 The company has installed such boards in nearly 80 per cent of the facilities they manage.
 
 Vineeta Tikekar, marketing director of corporate services, Asia Pacific, at   On-site Services, said that the intent was to promote optimal consumption of food fuelled by concerns over hunger and malnutrition.
 
 “It does lead to a change in behaviour,” she said.
 
 This is perhaps why the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), a body of 1300 members across western India, also adopted “No Food Wastage” policy to prevent wastage of food and redistribute it to the underprivileged children in the city. They have tied up with various NGOs that send special freezer vans to collect the extra food from restaurants and hand it over to underprivileged children.
 
 The association has requested all its members to put placards at the buffet counters urging diners to take only what they can eat.
 
 The Taj group of hotels has been following this practice since many years, said an official from Taj.
 
 Speaking to Mumbai Mirror, Bharat Malkani, president, HRAWI & Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI), said, “Every day, thousands of underprivileged children are being benefited by this move. Earlier, food was wasted daily. But now, with the food wastage policy in place, very little food goes down the drains. All hotels keep the food in a bigger capacity fridge and then give it to the NGO people. We also ensure that the NGOs redistribute it in a hygienic way. We don’t want people to fall sick because of stale food. But we need better logistics.”
 
 Apart from this, they were also composting food leftovers.
 
 According to a report of the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations, India had nearly 194.6 million — the highest in the world — undernourished people in 2015. Millions subsist on one meal a day.
 
