MUMBAI: Mumbaikars woke up to the coldest morning of the season on Tuesday when the mercury dipped to 13.6 degrees Celsius at the   observatory. Weathermen said the chill is expected to continue for the week.
 
  The all-time low for January in Mumbai was recorded at 7.4 degree Celsius on January 22, 1962. The lowest minimum for the month in the last 10 years was recorded on January 29, 2012, at 10 degrees Celsius.
  
  Tuesday’s minimum temperature recorded by the Indian Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Santa Cruz observatory of 13.6 degree Celsius was 3.6 degree below normal. The Colaba observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 17.2 degree Celsius, 2.3 degree below normal. Weathermen said the models had been indicating that there would be a dip in temperatures.
  
  The maximum temperatures recorded on Tuesday also seemed to be much below normal. Compared to Monday, a further dip was observed. The maximum temperature recorded by the Colaba observatory was 26.8 degree Celsius, 3.3 degree below normal, and by Santa Cruz was 27.8 degree Celsius, 4 degree below normal. On Monday the maximum temperatures were seen hovering around 28 degrees Celsius.
  
  “Generally the temperature recorded by the Colaba observatory tends to remain rigid. However a dip in temperatures is being observed by the Colaba observatory as well. One of the reasons for this fall in minimum temperatures can be attributed to the fact that the winds in the city are dead northerly,” said  , deputy director general, western region, IMD. Northerly winds are those coming from the colder regions of the country.
  
  The weather conditions are expected to remain for the week. “Temperatures in most of the coastal areas are showing below normal. We are likely to have a few more cold days in the week,” said Hosalikar.
  
  In the entire Konkan and Goa belt, the minimum temperature recorded for Tuesday was the lowest at Santa Cruz. In other parts like Ratnagiri, Alibaug and  , the minimum temperatures recorded were 17, 16 and 15 degree Celsius respectively.
  
  
