KOLKATA: “We don’t pray for love, We just pray for cars” – Barely over a month back, model   had posted this update on her Facebook wall. Her mother,  , had replied to this update saying: “Fast cars...fast love...fast & furious ... fasten your seat belts always??”. Little did both then know that on April 29 morning, Sonika would succumb to her injuries after a massive car accident. Her friend – actor Vikram Chatterjee – was behind the wheels when the car skid and hit a roadside flag stand.

 Nobody knows if her seat belt was fastened before the accident happened. Nobody knows why the air bag in the high-end car didn’t open when Vikram lost control of the car. The bare fact is that Sonika was scheduled to leave Kolkata for a few weeks on Monday. Before that, she partied hard through Friday night with her friends, pub-hopping from Over the Top (at The Myx) to Phoenix (at the Astor) to UG Reincarnated (the HHI). On Saturday morning while returning home, she met with the fatal accident leaving Kolkata to grieve for the loss an extremely talented model at 4.50 in the morning.
 
 It was Sonika’s mother again who had persuaded her to take up modelling as a career. A former model herself, Sharon had submitted her daughter’s form for participation at her first pageant without even informing her. Her first modelling campaign was in 2010 for designer  . “I have done countless assignments with her. Besides professional ties, she was a very dear friend. The news is heart-breaking for me. She was the only child and I shudder to think what her parents must be going through. Her friend actor  , who came to the hospital, is inconsolable,” said Dutta, who also rushed to the nursing home after hearing the news.
 
 Fashion photographer Kaustav Saikia said, “I had an early morning flight to Mumbai and it’s a strange coincidence that I crossed the same spot where the accident happened just minutes before the accident. I can’t believe that Sonika is no more.”
 
 Designer Suchismita Dasgupta, who had worked with both Chauhan and Chatterjee in a video for Nextiles, was at a loss of words. “Sonika’s death seems like a nightmare. April is the cruellest month. Both Vikram and Sonika are so good. Last month, Swastika Mukherjee, Mallika Majumder, Vikram and Sonika had shot for this video. I’ve rarely seen someone with such abundance of talent. I would often tell her that she didn’t even realise her own potential,” Dasgupta said.
 
 According to Dutta, the confidence with which Sonika carried herself on the ramp made her a favourite with so many designers. Describing Sonika as an excellent model, Saikia said that it was her confidence that made her stand out. “She didn’t have the height that models usually have. Yet, she would carry herself so well. Besides, she was very pretty. It was a pleasure to shoot with Sonika,” Saikia said about the 28-year-old model who is an ex-student of   for Girls.
 
 Yet, modelling wasn’t the only feather in Sonika’s cap. When a national private channel held a Kolkata leg for a fest, she was asked to interview a few people who were in attendance. The idea was to check out how she introduced the people and signed off. Her spunk and smartness were enough to get her selected. This selection kick-started an innings as a popular television presenter where she hosted shows at another national private channel. But it was her stint as the host of the Pro Kabaddi League that made her extremely popular. In fact, some of her fans would dotingly say that she was the one who was drawing the maximum eyeballs at the league!
 
 Sports, Sonika insisted, has always been a big passion so much so that one of her future goals was to open her own production house where she wanted to work as a sports producer. A self-confessed waterbaby, swimming was a big passion for her too. As a kid, she had even nurtured ambitions of winning laurels for India in swimming competitions. However, an accident had forced her to give up on those plans when she was in her teens.
 
 Yet, the mermaid streak in her remained. Even during her recent vacation to the Krabi island, she posted photos of herself saying: “If only I could leave the human world and go live with my fellow sea creatures…”
 
 On Saturday morning, death perhaps took her request a bit too seriously. It came too early to steal away the industry’s favourite mermaid.
 
 
