MUMBAI: For the first time in the history of   (G-Secs) market in India, a   maturing on a particular day will have more than Rs 1-lakh-crore outstanding. 

 Bond dealers said this is a sign of the central bank’s increasing confidence about the depth of the   market in India. After Friday’s G-Sec auction, the total amount outstanding in the 6.79% government security, maturing in 2029 (6.79% GS 2029), jumped to almost Rs 1.05 lakh crore. Prior to this auction, the total outstanding in 6.79% GS 2029 gilt was Rs 97,800 crore, the   data showed. 
 
 So far, the RBI had maintained an informal limit of around Rs 93,000 crore for every G-Sec paper. This is the first time that the RBI crossed that threshold. 
 
 The new limit could now be about Rs 1.20 lakh crore, bond dealers pointed out. Prior to the   crisis, around 2008 when G-Secs were auctioned every fortnight, the informal limit for a gilt was about Rs 45,000 crore. 
 
 Later, as the government and the RBI turned more pro-active in managing the  , the G-Sec market also became more volatile and the government started weekly auction of G-Secs. During the last decade, gradually the RBI more than doubled the informal G-Sec limit, bond market veterans pointed out.
 
 Bond dealers also pointed out that of late there has been consolidation of gilts by the RBI and the government, leading to lesser number of papers available in the market. About 10 years ago, more than 100 gilts were outstanding in a particular year, which is now down to 84, the RBI data showed. “As consolidation picked up pace, along with the government’s need for more borrowing, the limit on outstanding for each paper also increased. Consolidation has also led to more liquidity in G-Secs, which in turn has contributed in boosting the depth of the market,” a senior bond dealer with a large primary dealership said.
 
 Incidentally, in April, to enhance liquidity and depth in the corporate bond market in India, markets regulator Sebi had decided to consolidate debt papers issued by the companies.
 
 
