KOLHAPUR: The   ( ) is going to approach the state government for financial assistance once the Goods and   ( ) is rolled out from July. 

 The GST will subsume various indirect taxes, including the local body tax (LBT). At present, the LBT is partially in force in the city. 
 
 In August 2015, the state government abolished the LBT for traders with annual turnover less than Rs 50 crore. However, the LBT for big businesses is still in place, especially those in wholesale trade.
 
 A senior civic official said, "The monthly compensation grant started by the state government will stop as the GST comes into force. The GST rates and items to be included in each tax slab. Since the LBT will be completely abolished, we have to seek the grants from the state government, for which, the KMC will write to the state authorities. As per our information, the government has agreed to release steady grants to the civic bodies for the first five years of the GST regime."
 
 During 2016-17, the KMC collected revenue of Rs 111 crore through the LBT from big traders, state grants and revenue from 1% stamp duty. According to the civic officials, the state government has not devised the formula for compensation once the GST comes into effect. 
 
 Also, during the last few months, the compensation grants issued are less than promised when the LBT was abolished. 
 
 The civic administration is feeling the pinch due to financial limitations posed after the LBT was abolished. The officials believes that by 2016-17, the KMC could have raked in more than Rs 170 crore if the LBT would have been in place. 
 
 "LBT was started in 2011 and considering the average annual growth of the expansion of the trade and trading units, the revenue would have been much more than what we got during last financial year. We are going to study the impact of the GST regime on the civic finances in the first couple of months. A comprehensive report of the effect and our financial demands will be put up with the government," said the official.
 
