NEW DELHI: Available: A three-bedroom flat with modular kitchen, granite flooring, central air-conditioning, dedicated basement parking and a servant’s room. Also, comes with an option of duplex flat. All flats have a view of  . Yes, this is where our members of   will live.
 
  The   (CPWD), the prime construction agency of the Centre, is all set to demolish in phases the 428 MP flats, built 60 years ago, in North and South Avenues to give way to swanky low-rise buildings.
  
  In the works since 2010, the plans for new flats for the parliamentarians have received all clearances. Secretary (urban development)   told ET, “Since the flats are in  , we needed clearances for the present design. We have received all clearances now and the plans should roll out soon.”
  
  According to CPWD sources, the agency had planned a formal rollout of the project with a foundation stone laying exercise. However, with model code of conduct in   ahead of April municipal elections, the ceremony has been postponed.
  
  The plan to provide modern flats to MPs is six years old. It was conceived in 2011 and the construction had to begin in 2012. However, the House committee of  , which oversees accommodation of MPs, had a problem with the design. The matter really hinged on whether the servant quarter should be attached or not.
  
  There were other elements like a basement parking that MPs wanted. Being Lutyens Bungalow Zone, there are height and other restrictions on construction. The design was cleared in 2014 and CPWD started getting clearances. The final nod from Delhi Urban Arts Commission (DUAC) has also come.Sources said a beginning would be made with North Avenue.
  
  “We have marked flat numbers 1-60 in North Avenue for demolition. These flats are used as transit accommodation,” a senior CPWD official said. The 232 flats in North Avenue, built over 22 acres, now accommodate 193 MPs, while 163 MPs live in the 196 South Avenue flats built over 25 acres.
  
  The new flats will have all the modern amenities. The old mosaic floor will give way to granite floors and there will be centralised air-conditioning, modular kitchens and basement parking. The apartment blocks that will house these flats will have three floors, one more than the existing structures. 
