PATNA: Chief minister   on Wednesday said the   disappointed Bihar and there was nothing in it that would accelerate the pace of country’s economy.

 “Jaitley’s speech was disappointing and boring. I patiently heard him for two hours with the hope of something new to come. But there was nothing in his speech which can kindle the hope for speeding up the country’s economy,” Nitish said while reacting to the Budget presented by Union finance minister   on Wednesday.
 
 Describing it a “big injustice” to Bihar, Nitish said there was no mention in the Budget speech about any of the promises which the Prime Minister had made during the 2015 assembly polls. They didn’t say anything about granting special state status to Bihar. The Centre has failed to keep its promises made to the people of Bihar, he said.
 
 “Moreover, the Budget is silent over the arrears of the Backward Regions Grant Fund (BRGF) which the state government has been demanding from time to time. The PM himself had promised to pay the BRGF arrears while announcing the special package during the assembly polls. Recently, the Centre released only Rs1,300 crore, out of around Rs6,000 crore arrears. Jaitley should have explained what they intend to do with the arrears,” Nitish, who is also the JD(U) national president, said.
 
 The CM said he also expected that the Budget would mention ‘special package’ to Bihar, but not a word was uttered about it. “In fact, Bihar got nothing from Jaitley’s package. There will be no bigger injustice to Bihar than not fulfilling the promises made to its people and not releasing the arrears?” Nitish quipped. He said the Budget was neither going to help the common man nor farmers nor youth.
 
 Nitish also questioned the silence on the effect of demonetisation. “Jaitley should have informed the country how much black money returned to the banks after demonetisation or how much the country benefited from the note ban since November 8,” he said.
 
 Reacting over clubbing rail budget with the general Budget, Nitish said, “Inlogo né railway ka to bantadhar kar diya (they have ruined the railways).” He said the merger took away the railways’ autonomy. 
 
 
