SHIMLA: Falling girl-child sex ratio in Himachal Pradesh, especially in the areas bordering Punjab, Haryana and Uttarakhand, has forced the state health authorities to come out with the idea of conducting sting operation of pre-natal sex determination tests performed by ultrasound centres in the state. For sting operation, a decision has been taken to engage private detective agencies. In Himachal Pradesh, around 265 ultrasound clinics are registered of which 86 are in government sector and 179 in private sector.

 A senior official from the directorate of health safety and regulation said the government has already decided to keep a close watch on the functioning of private ultrasound centres through private detective agencies. Officials said once private detective agency is hired then it would not only carry sting operations to expose the ultrasound centres’ illegal activity but would also have to provide evidence based information with authentic proofs against ultrasonography centres, professionals and private individuals. They said that decoy operations against ultrasound centres would be conducted as per the standard operating guidelines for district appropriate authorities issued by the Government of India.
 
 Health minister   said that at no cost illegal sex determination tests, female foeticide through sonography machines or any other method would be allowed in the state. He said those found involved in any such illegal activity would be dealt with strictly as per the provisions of Pre-Natal Diagnostic Technique (PNDT) Act.
 
 Himachal Pradesh has fixed the target of improving girl-child sex ratio in the age group of 0-6 years from 909 as per 2011 census to 940 by 2022. Galore area of Hamirpur district has the lowest child sex ratio of 845 followed by Ladbharol in Mandi district at 850, Tiara of Kangra district at 875, Gangath of Kangra at 877 and Baldwara of Mandi at 879. Lahaul-Spiti district with child sex ratio of 1,033 girls per 1,000 boys was not only the best in the state but also in the entire nation.
 
 State government has decided to install active tracking devices in the ultrasound machines under pilot project in Hamirpur, Kangra and Una, and later in a phased manner entire state would be covered under the scheme.
 
