MANALI: Thrissur resident  , whose passport and clothes were found on the banks of river Beas at   in Manali on Saturday, had trekked to Chanderkhani pass and Malana village sometime before Diwali.This was revealed from the Facebook posts of Shifa and her friends, who had spent the night in a cave during their trip.

 Sources said she was seen near Old Manali also.There is a possibility that the girl had left Manali by bus during Diwali and later returned as her last   on December 25 reads: “Merry Christmas from Himachal."
 
 Police think that the girl probably died on January 7 or 8 when Manali received very heavy snow (over 75cm). Traffic was crippled in the area and tourist movement to region was stopped. The body was recovered from the right bank of Beas beyond Old Manali where residents rarely go. There is a possibility is that the body remained invisible under a thick blanket of snow for days.
 
 The region experienced many more spells of snow until a person saw the body on January 29 and informed the police. However, police will officially confirm the identity of the body recovered only after matching the DNA. Shifa's family are on their way to Manali.
 
 Water level in the Beas is low during winter and bodies generally are stuck between rocks. Police said that they would look at all possible scenarios. Manali station house officer KD Sharma said the investigation was progressing in right direction. “We are connecting all the links we are receiving. We shall crack the case soon,“ he said.
 
 The 22-year-old event management professional had gone to Delhi on October 14. Later, she had contacted her parents that she was in Manali. She contacted her family on January 7, when there was heavy snowfall in the town. She had informed them that she would be home on January 15. When she did not arrive on the said date, family members tried to contact her. But her number was not reachable. Her family came to know about the recovery of passport and other belongings of Shifa when TOI's correspondent in Kerala contacted them on Saturday.
 
