NEW DELHI: Three years after the launch of  ,   were   (ODF) on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on Monday. 

 Out of the 272 wards in the capital, 168 were declared ODF — 104 wards in south Delhi and 64 in the east. The north corporation is likely to give itself the tag on December 15. The civic bodies’ self-declaration will have to pass the Union urban development ministry test in January. 
 
 Keeping an area free of open defecation is, however, tougher than building toilets. The civic bodies will now have to ensure that people use these toilets on a regular basis. Otherwise, both south and east Delhi can lapse into the shameful situation again. “This feat cannot be sustained unless citizens cooperate with the corporations. We appeal to the RWAs, schools, market associations and councillors to take it upon themselves to motivate people never to go in the open,” said Neema Bhagat, mayor of East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC).
 
 A lot of hard work has gone into “winning the war on open defecation”, said Kamaljeet Sehrawat, the mayor of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). A couple of months ago, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) identified 105 sites near JJ clusters in south Delhi and handed over the list to  . 
 
 “We have built 1,099 toilets, including 250 toilet seats in 25 mobile vans. Officers have been told to ensure their upkeep and exhort the users to use the facilities properly,” said Sehrawat. “All sites have been covered,” said an official.
 
 SDMC’s 25 mascots, named Roko and Toko, will patrol the areas vulnerable to open defecation as part of a special campaign, Roko, Toko Aur Siti Bajao. The mascots will chase away open defecators the way civil defence personnel patrolling 12 areas in EDMC do. The corporations will use street corner plays, radio jingles, newspaper advertisements, hoardings to motivate people to stop defecating in the open. “An extensive awareness campaign has been planned in east Delhi,” said Bhagat.
 
 But the ODF status, some citizens said, is away from the ground reality. Many people, especially the homeless and those living near railway tracks and JJ clusters, continue to defecate in the open. 
 
 In east Delhi’s Trilokpuri, even people living in the vicinity of community toilets located in Indira Camp still defecate in the open. In some places, the toilets have already been encroached upon for other purposes. EDMC has already deployed civil defence personnel at 12 locations. Both corporations have planned to adopt the carrot and stick policy to overcome this problem.
 
 In addition to wrestlers Geeta and Babita Phogat, the south corporation appointed cricketer Gautam Gambhir and athlete Deepa Malik as its brand ambassadors on Monday. It will use audio visual messages from the brand ambassadors to spread awareness about toilet use.
 
 
