CHANDIGARH: Strongly objecting to the plea seeking recusal of two judges of Punjab and Haryana high court, belonging to Jat Sikh community, from hearing the petition related to reservation to Jats under backward classes (BC) category in Haryana, the state government on Wednesday submitted that such pleas may create constitutional crisis, if accepted.

 The Haryana government also argued that seeking recusal of the bench from the hearing at a time when the case had already been heard for more than six months was a serious attempt to handicap the judicial proceedings.
 
 Even Kumhar Mahasabha, which was opposing the reservation to the Jat community, has objected to the plea seeking recusal of both the judges from the hearing on the grounds that it would spoil the working environment in the high court.
 
 After hearing the arguments by the petitioner, Haryana and other parties, a division bench comprising   and Justice   fixed the case for Thursday for announcing its decision on the issue.
 
 The matter was raised before the bench after an application filed by   challenging the hearing of matter by Justice Saron and Justice Lisa.
 
 The sabha alleged that since both the judges belong to the Jat Sikh community and endogamy was largely practised in their community, which has considerable population in Haryana, they should recuse from hearing the case as it involves reservation to Jat Sikh community in the state.
 
 Opposing the plea, senior advocate Jagdeep Dhankar, while appearing for the Haryana government, argued before the HC that such assertions were mischievous and had the potential to generate a caste impact in judicial system.
 
 He further argued that the judges couldn’t be seen through the prism of caste or religion, and if the plea filed by Yadav Sabha was accepted, the consequences would be far reaching.
 
 “The bench might have decided many cases and if the present plea is accepted, others belonging to non-Jat community would come forward and raise objections over past decisions. Faith of people in judiciary is unshakeable and endeavour should be on upholding the integrity of judiciary rather leveling such allegations at this stage,” Dhankar argued while objecting to the plea.
 
 Senior advocate V K Jindal, while appearing for Kumhar Mahasabha, termed the plea seeking recusal of bench as bad day for the institution of judiciary. “We may have a different opinion, but such a plea is wrong. If courts started accepting such pleas, the consequences would be bad. Even the efforts made by various social reformers in the past to eradicate social divide due to caste would be defeated. There is no question of shifting the matter from the present bench. Even the Yadav Sabha should have withdrawn such a plea in the interest of justice,” Jindal added.
 
 However, the counsel for Yadav Sabha, P R Yadav, remained firm on his stand to oppose the hearing of the case by both the judges.
 
 The bench is hearing a plea challenging the BC quota given to Jat and five others communities by the Haryana government. It has already stayed the quota and was hearing the case for the around six months on merit.
 
