BHUBANESWAR: The  , Bhubaneswar, on Wednesday remanded   leader   in   custody for six days. The high-profile parliamentarian from Kolkata North was brought to the Odisha capital around midnight for interrogation and production in court. He was arrested on Tuesday afternoon on the charge of using his influence to benefit the Rose Valley group, which is mired in a Rs 17,000-crore scam that has hit thousands of small investors in Bengal and Odisha.

 There was tight security on the court premises as Tri namool supporters led by the party's Ramnagar MLA, Akhil Giri, shouted slogans against the CBI. “The CBI is playing a partisan role at the BJP's prodding. They are arresting our leaders when they do not have any evidence to substantiate the charges,“ Giri said. Clad in a white kurta-pyjama and navy blue jacket, the MP entered the court premises surrounded by security personnel at 3.20 pm. He smiled and waved at the waiting partymen before entering the courtroom and taking his seat. He stood up only after special magistrate P K Mishra entered the courtroom and remained standing till the proceedings got over an hour later. The veteran Trinamool parliamentarian listened attentively to CBI lawyer Kali Charan Mishra's opening argument, in which he claimed that the MP held several closeddoor meetings with Rose Valley boss Gautam Kundu till the Ponzi bubble burst in 2013. Bandyopadhyay's lawyer, Rajdeep Majumdar, disputed the CBI claim saying the investigating agency has not been able to produced any evidence to substantiate the charge.
 
 In the midst of the arguments and counter-arguments, Bandyopadhyay broke his silence: “I am not a lawyer, I am a parliamentarian. They have asked me only three or four questions.What they asked me was thoroughly unsubstantiated.“
 
 Claiming that the agency couldn't produce a single document showing that he had taken money from the Rose Valley Group, Bandyopadhyay said, “I am pained at the agency making such unsubstantiated claims.“
 
 Referring to one of the questions put before him, the MP said, “I am being accused of going on foreign trips. Yes, I went abroad on government programmes and personal trips. I paid for that through demand draft. But if somebody (CBI) says that more money was given to your travel agent by someone, I cannot be held responsible for that,“ he said.
 
 Claiming that he was not shying away from a CBI probe, the MP pleaded with the court to let him attend an urgent meeting of the Parliamentary Stan ding Committee of which he is the chairman. “Indian Railways is going to roll out the digitization process. I am supposed to chair the meeting. I have told CBI that I am ready to cooperate with them,“ Bandyopadhyay said. But the CBI counsel quick ly countered that even a person holding high office is not above the law.
 
 The magistrate denied Bandyopadhyay's bail plea and sent him in police remand for six days and took time from both parties to go through the case diary.
 
