NAGPUR: A musical show ‘Aap ki Parchhaiyan’ paid tribute to late actors like Rajesh Khanna, Madhubala, Divya Bharti, and Farookh Sheikh by showcasing their hit songs to revive their memories. The programme was organized by   (BRK) at Scientific Hall, on Saturday evening.

 The show was conceptualized by founder of BRK Raghunandan Parsatwar and boasted a mix of experienced and fresh talent. According to Parsatwar, BRK tries to give opportunity to hidden talent. 26 songs including duets and solos, were performed by singers Shridhar Mule, Savitra Pofli, Prashant Paraskar, Ratna Mukherjee, Preeti Banerjee, Aarti Upadhya, Sulbha Mandekar, Raghunandan Parsatwar and others. 
 
 Some songs were also dedicated to late actors Shammi Kapoor and Meena Kumari as well as late filmmaker Yash Chopra. Namrata Agnihotri who anchored the event described some of the unfortunate incidents in the lives of the late artistes.
 
 Programme started with Balraj Sahni’s ‘Tu pyar ka sagar hai’ which delighted the audience’s mood. Smita Patil who died untimely was recalled with song ‘Dushman na kare dost ne’, sung by Upadhya which was followed by ‘Thandi hawa kali ghata’ rendered by Upadhya and Mandekar paying homage to Madhubala.
 
 Paraskar managed to generate excitement in the audience by performing ‘Ae meri zohra jabeen’ by Manna Dey and ‘Lehra kea a zara’ by Mohammed Rafi. Divya Bharti’s movies, ‘Rang’ and ‘Shatranj’ were released after her early death, one of her noted songs ‘Saat Samundar paar’ was sung by Mukharjee. The evergreen ‘Ye kaha aa gaye hum’ from Yash Chopra’s film Silsila, was sung by Banerjee and the monologue was perfectly imitated by Paraskar.
 
 The music was synchronized by various musicians who decked the stage, Pawan Manwatkar and Abhishek Dahikar were on the synthesizer, Sanjay Barapatre and Satish Gaikwad were on the drums and rhythm machines, Pankaj Yadav on Tabla and Dhol, Prakash Chauhan played guitar and Aniket Barapatre gave side rhythms.
 
 (Reporting by Preeti Yadav)
 
