 governor 
 , who had raised eyebrows by inviting the BJP-led coalition to form government instead of the single largest party  , tells 
  she is on firm legal ground as her decision was based on formal letters of support submitted to her well before Congress staked claim. Excerpts:

 
 
 There is no rule calling only the single largest party to form government. The governor has to be satisfied that a party or coalition can form the government.
 
 The   along with 4 NPP, 4 NPF, one Congress, one Trinamool Congress, one LJP and one Independent MLA met me at 8pm on March 12.
 
 They came personally to pledge their support to BJP and gave me letters of support. At 9-9.30pm, Okram Ibobi Singh came to meet me. He staked claim stating that Congress had emerged as the single largest party. He gave me a letter of support purportedly from NPP. It was on a plain paper. By that time, NPP had already pledged its support to BJP by sending me a formal letter.
 
 
 
 
 I recognise the signatures of the NPP president from the letter he had faxed. But I did not raise any questions. I only told Mr Singh that I will not any accept the letter of support of another party from him.
 
 
 
 The next morning, I called the press and when asked, told them that I had examined everything including the letters of support for a BJPled government. I also said I was yet to receive the resignation letter of the CM.
 
 Singh, after watching the press interaction, came to meet me and submitted the resignation letter of his Cabinet on a plain paper.
 
 
 
 
 I did not have to ask as I already had his letter of support (to the BJP) on an official letter head. Also, the NPP clarified that they had not given any letter to Congress.
 
 
 
 
 Parties must come forward to stake claim.
 
 
 
 Had he dissolved the assembly, I would have asked him to continue as the caretaker CM until an alternative was found. 
 
 
 
 They are now running the coalition and it is for them to function. But I must say that the economic blockade that was causing lot of hardship to the people for three months ended soon after the new government took over. 
 
 
 
