Vadodara: The rising fuel prices and performance of sitting MLAs are giving jitters to the lower rung of the BJP in the city. 

 At a meeting attended V Satish, party’s national joint general secretary (organisation), municipal councillors and other functionaries were vocal about these issues saying that they these could hit their poll prospects. 
 
 The series of meetings was organised on Saturday to hear out party members at various levels in the city. The exercise was aimed at gathering an insight into what the party members felt about the situation at the grassroots. One of common complaints that Satish got to hear was regarding the spiralling petrol and diesel prices.
 
 “A councillor pointed out that people had people had supported the party in demonetisation as well as implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST) despite facing immense hardships. He said that there was an undercurrent regarding the petroleum prices,” said an insider. He expressed apprehension that it might be difficult to deal with people’s questions in this regard. 
 
 A former senior functionary of the party also raised this issue in another meeting with Satish. According to party insiders, while Satish did not give any comments immediately. he noted down the opinion of the party members.
 
 While only a few raised the issue, most seem to agree with it. “We did not repeat what was said once by a fellow member, but all agree on this front,” said a councillor. 
 
 Sources said that the biggest surprise was first-time councillor Vijay Pawar who said that the five sitting MLAs had not contributed to the city and remained busy in infighting and politicking within the party. He suggested that the party should considered replacing them with other candidates.
 
 When asked about his comments, Pawar said that the meeting was a closed-door affair. “I will not comment on anything that transpired in the meeting. My comments were leaked by vested interests,” he said.
 
 Another councillor pointed out during the meeting that the party should field only local candidates. The comment assumes significance in wake of the fact that last time former minister Saurabh Patel was granted a ticket from the Akota assembly seat. The BJP is already agog with rumours that Vadodara being a stronghold, some heavyweight seeking a safe seat may be granted a ticket again.
 
 
