With the monsoon gaining momentum, infectious diseases too have spiralled in the city. Seven people have succumbed to   and   in the first two weeks of July, while hundreds have been affected by suspected dengue and gastroenteritis. Cholera too has made a comeback.The   influenza, widely circulating since June, claimed five lives, including that of a four-year-old child from Mankhurd, in July. Worryingly, a delay in treatment with the   contributed to four of the five deaths, BMC said on Monday .

 The city's death toll for the viral infection now stands at 14, including nine deaths in June.In Maharashtra, deaths caused by H1N1 crossed 300 on Sunday .More than 65% victims has underlying conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and obesity. Four adults who died from the city had at least one chronic condition. While two of the deceased had hypothyroidism, the other two were known cases of hypertension.
 
 “H1N1 is predominant among all other seasonal infections circulating in the country . Maharashtra, Kerala and Gujarat have contributed to more than 70% of the 600 odd deaths nationally . Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are lea ding in cases. But we understand little about its severity compared with regular flu,“ said Dr AC Dhariwal, director of the Delhi-based National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). An NCDC team, which toured the state in June to review deaths, had pointed to a “considerable delay“ in initiating treatment in patients with co-morbid conditions as the prime reason for the high fatality rate.
 
 As per the civic report, among the latest victims was a 57-year-old man from Bandra who had a history of diabetes and hypertension. He died after developing bilateral pneu monia and multi-organ failure. All other victims were women, including a 65-year-old Parel resident, a patient of hypertension. She died of bilateral pneumonia and sepsis following the H1N1infection.
 
 A 41-year-old woman from Borivli (W), a known case of hypothyroidism, died after developing acute respiratory distress syndrome. The third deceased too, a 45-year-old woman from Goregaon, had hypothyroidism.State epidemiologist Dr Pradeep Awate said most deaths were recorded in the 22-50 age group this year. The 4-year-old child was treated in three hospitals before succumbing in a public hospital.
 
