HYDERABAD: A gang, allegedly involved in cheating people to the tune of Rs1.5 crore by offering to sell a “rice-pulling machine with magic powers“, were busted by the   on Monday .

 Acting on a tip-off, the Special Operations Team (SOT) sleuths along with Chandanagar police arrested S Chandrahas Reddy , 28, a farmer from Mansoorabad, near LB Nagar, P Buchaiah Goud, 43, a mobile phone shop owner, from Nagole, and K Ramesh, 26, a car driver from Kadapa district, near RS Brothers Showroom at Gangaram near Chandanagar on Monday .
 
 A year ago, the culprits had duped a realtor from Chandanagar of Rs25 lakh by asking him to invest in the marketing of their “magic rice-pulling“ machine. Police seized two copper pots, which they marketed as “rice-pulling“ tools made of “magic“ metal. Cops also seized some parts of a TV set from their possession.
 
 “The accused told the victims that the copper pots are made of certain precious material and they possess enormous atomic power. Claiming that such pots are worth crores in the interna tional rare metal market, the accused lure victims to invest money in marketing the rice-pulling equipment to international companies,“ Cyberabad joint commissioner   said at a press meet held at the   in Gachibowli.
 
 To make the victims believe that the copper pots had magic powers to attract rice and pulses, the accused used to place the copper vessel in the corner of a room next to walls and connect it to the mother board and picture tube of a TV set hidden in an adjacent room. “They placed the pot in a plastic box and drilled a small hole in the wall behind the box. Through the hole, they connected the TV , mother board and picture tube wires to the bottom of the pot, creating an electro magnetic field to attract objects like rice, hair and pulses. The victims, who saw this phenomenon, thought that the pots really have rice-pulling capabilities,“ the joint commissioner said, showing the copper pots to the media personnel.
 
 The gang members also told victims that the rice-pulling pots could attract rare earth metals from the spot where a thunderbolt strikes the earth. Police said the gang had duped several people to the tune of Rs1.5 crore in the past few years by making them invest in the marketing of the rice-pulling pots. The culprits were arrested and remanded in judicial custody.
 
