New Delhi:   has written to RWAs, schools and other stakeholders in south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar and neighbouring areas for suggestions/objections regarding its traffic diversion plan while the parallel Rao Tula Ram flyover is being constructed. The agency plans to close the 3km stretch for a period of six months after   to complete the construction.

 “We have written to over different 25 stakeholders, including RWAs and schools, which will be affected by the new traffic circulation plan. We will compile the suggestions/objections and send it to traffic police while taking the final permission,” said a PWD official.
 
 For the construction of the parallel   flyover, PWD has to close the left carriageway of Outer Ring Road between   Marg and Army Research and Referral Hospital. “The construction of piers is almost over. We now have to place the girders and   slabs. For this, we need to close the left carriageway. The work will, however, be done in a phased manner,” said a senior PWD official.
 
 Officials said that the initial plan was to complete the work in two phases. “But now we have decided to do it in three phases so that the locals face minimum inconvenience,” said an official.
 
 PWD has submitted a detailed traffic diversion plan to the Delhi Traffic Police. As per the plan, PWD suggested two major diversions between Nelson Mandela Marg and Army Research and Referral Hospital.
 
 In Phase-I, Nelson Mandela Marg to Vasant Vihar Poorvi Marg will be closed for airport-bound traffic coming from IIT-Delhi side. The traffic will be diverted from Nelson Mandela Marg to Abdul Gaffar Khan Marg towards NH-8 via Mahipalpur and Mahipalpur bypass. This diversion will continue for six months till the construction is over.
 
 In the second phase, PWD will work on the stretch between Poorvi Marg and RTR junction, and then take up the rest of the stretch up to R&R Hospital in Phase-III.
 
 The stretch between Poorvi Marg and R&R is a cause of worry as it is likely to slow down traffic movement for airport-bound traffic coming from central Delhi. As the left carriageway of Outer Ring Road will be closed for construction, PWD plans to divert the traffic coming from Rao Tula Ram Marg to the right carriageway under the RTR flyover. “Two traffic signals will be installed to ensure that traffic from the right carriageway smoothly gets on to the left carriageway after Army hospital. One traffic signal will be installed at the foot of RTR flyover near the hospital to manage airport-bound traffic and another before the Army hospital to manage the south Delhi-bound traffic coming from airport,” added the official.
 
