NAGPUR: The municipal elections may be round the corner but there is not much enthusiasm among half the Nagpurians. The reason is that they don’t vote in  . No wonder, the there was a difference of 8% in voting percentage of 2012   (NMC) elections and 2014 parliamentary elections. 

 There are others who vote but don’t know for whom they are voting. These are committed party voters and they would vote for any candidate that the party of their choice fields. Sheenam Khan, a student, is a typical example of voters’ apathy towards civic elections. She had voted in 2014 assembly elections after she became eligible to vote, but has no intention of doing so this year. “I don’t know who my corporator is and I am not interested. I don’t have any need for them as yet. Frankly speaking I didn’t even know that   were round the corner,” she said.
 
 Keshav Jamgade, a marketing professional, said that he voted in 2012 elections but did not know who the candidates were. “I don’t know the name of my corporators even to this day. I will vote this time too but only on party lines,” he told TO
 
 According to BJP MLC Anil Sole, corporators are not to blame for this situation. “The reason why people don’t even know the identity of their corporator because they don’t have any need for them. Even if there are, the citizens directly contact the concerned NMC staffers. However, this is an unfortunate situation as it is the corporator who can serve the people the best,” he said.
 
 Political expert Anjali Gaidhane blamed the corporators for this disconnect. “Efforts need to be taken by them so that there is interaction with voters. Regular meetings and opening grievance cell will help,” she said.
 
 Another expert Rahul Bavge said that there were various reasons for voter apathy. He says, “The educated voters feel that their vote does not count and the outcome is decided only slum-dwellers. Many people feel that they have tried corporators of all parties but all are corrupt and ineffective..” 
 
 Political science professor Mohan Kashikar blamed the voters stressing that they failed to realize how corporators can be of service to them and hopes the   (SEC) campaign will help the people to be aware. 
 
 A retired civic officer, however, blamed the government for not giving enough power to corporators. “It is true that corporators are not much effective but they don’t have much powers for that. Officials at times don’t pay attention to them unless they are office-bearers. So people prefer to deal with officials directly. Sometimes they approach the media instead of meeting the corporator,” he said.
 
