MOHALI: Derabassi has turned into a hub of factories -- chemical, plywood, and pharmaceuticals -- spewing out toxic fumes that travel miles towards residential areas, causing serious health problems. Derabassi residents, living in areas like Gulmohar Society and its extension -- besides at least 10 other residential colonies, societies, enclaves, and independent houses with a population of approximately 1,500 -- are facing a serious  . Residents have written to the area’s sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ruhi Dugg, and municipal councillor   several times, complaining about the pollution from factories, which begins during evening hours, and continues until early morning.”

 Baljinder Kaur said: “We wrote to the SDM about pollution in the area at least 7-8 times, but no action has been taken so far, and the foul smell is so intense that it is almost impossible to breathe.” Sources informed that the foul smell was affecting the health of kids and senior citizens the most. So far, since 2013-14 until now, over two dozen complaints have already been filed before various departments to resolve the issue, but the problem persists. Mohali’s newly appointed deputy commissioner,  , said: “The complaint has been brought to my notice. I will direct the SDM concerned to look into the matter, and it will be resolved.” However, Dugg’s cellphone was switched off when TOI tried to contact her.
 
 There are more than one dozen factories and chemical industries within a radius of one mile from the residential area. The chimney smoke can clearly be seen from a distance, and when the wind direction is towards the city, it is truly a nightmare. Area resident Rajeev Kumar said: “I invested my entire life savings here, thinking that the area is away from pollution, but after coming here, my life has turned upside down. Now, not just me, but many other residents are planning to sell their houses here, so that we can move out and at least breathe some fresh air. We are sure we will start suffering from some problem or the other if we continue to live here.”
 
 Noise, air, and sound pollution is disturbing people both mentally and physically. Some residents have even started using masks to breathe, and are taking their kids for regular medical check-up to ascertain if they are suffering from any pollution related ailments. Residents of Gulmohar City Extension said: “A number of factories burn used tyres, rubber, pipes, and other sort of waste, which releases dangerous smoke and toxins. These elements are sufficient to damage body organs like skin, heart, eyes etc, and even lead to tuberculosis.
 
 Another resident, Gurpreet Singh, said: “We have to close our windows and doors of the house to breathe, but if somehow, they are left open for less than a minute, it is too painful to breathe.” Residents have already raised serious objections to the existence of such factories, while recommending their removal, as they have spent their lifetime savings to purchase houses, flats, and plots here. It has been alleged that despite submitting many complaints to the government, no practical steps have been taken to implement the recommendations of residents, resulting in the factories continuing to affect public health.
 
 Kaur said: “I’m surprised why the government bodies are not taking any action against the factories, and keeping their eyes closed. Even a layperson knows that the foul smell emitting from the factories is bad for health. Then, why are the civic bodies not doing anything?”
 
 
 
 
