AHMEDABAD: City crime branch on Friday arrested   (Patel) the man who phoned   and said that the stricter prohibition laws implemented by the state government had curbed the sale of alcohol but only jacked up the prices. An audio recording of the  , forcing the deputy CM to say “While holding public office, we are appreciated and face criticism all the time. However, being government employees, they are bound by conduct rules and should respect the authorities.”

 Crime branch sources said they registered an offence for impersonation against Etalia, as he identified himself as a policeman even though he had resigned as a Lok Rakshak Dal jawan when had called the deputy CM.
 
 “Etalia joined the police force in 2012 and resigned in January 2015. He is presently a clerk at a Prant office in Dhandhuka,” a senior crime branch official said.
 
 In the recording, the deputy CM was put in a spot and he told Etalia, a fixed wage worker, to do his duty as well. Etalia is heard telling the deputy CM that ‘he is abiding by his duty but liquor sale is not curbed due to collusion between his superiors and those in the government’.
 
 The deputy CM responded to Patel’s query by asking for his real name and the police station he was posted at. Etalia is heard saying he was at Madhavpura police station and also mentioning his buckle number.
 
 Crime branch officials said Etalia told them he was confused while speaking to the Deputy CM and made a mistake by saying that he was currently a Lok Rakshak Dal jawan.
 
 “He confessed to having called the deputy CM to gain instant publicity. We are now probing how many times the clip changed hands on social media before getting reported in the media,” a senior crime branch official said.
 
 Earlier, a man who identified himself as a gram sewak called Jagdish Rojasara from Jasdan, had was heard in a recording asking the deputy CM when they were announcing a “lollipop” for fixed pay employees. This had riled up the deputy CM, who dismissed such calls as the perils of public life.
 
