NASHIK: Members of the civic body’s   on Monday came down heavily on various issues relating to garbage segregation,  , sanitary employees, compost, and  

 The corporators demanded to know if garbage was collected as per the contract. They alleged that   was not being done and that scrap was sold to scrap dealers before the vans reached the solid waste plant, resulting in loss for the NMC. The plastic waste was also sold to a dealer, they said.
 
 BJP corporator Mukesh Shahane said there was no third-party audit of the insecticides used for fogging or spraying. “We do not know if mosquitoes are dying or not,” Shahane said. He also complained about garbage vans and toilets. 
 
 Municipal commissioner   said that segregation and disposal of plastic was the contractor’s responsibility and that it was not mentioned in the agreement that the income from plastic waste should be given to the NMC.
 
 “Segregation and composting of wet waste is going on at the waste treatment plant. No commission is to be given to the NMC for disposal of plastic. The livelihood of ragpickers depend on this. We will have to form a ragpickers society as per Swachh Survekshan. The sale of waste is a commercial activity of the agency. NMC is not in loss,” Krishna said. 
 
 Shiv Sena corporator Pravin Tidme said that he had asked the health officer for a copy of the agreement with garbage contractors. 
 
 “He gave the copy four days ago. But some pages of the copy are missing. We have to check if all the norms are fulfilled. Garbage van first goes to the scrap shop and then goes to the compost plant. We had also asked about information on pest control but we did not get it,” Tidme said, adding that only 23 sanitary employees were employed in his prabhag and only one in Govindnagar.
 
 Krishna said global positioning system was installed in garbage vans. “The controls are in the  . Anyone can go and check it. From June 1, the manual entries will also become online,” he said.
 
 BJP corporator Shashikant Jadhav said, “Out of the 400 tonne waste, only 30 tonne is wet waste. Is the planning for segregation proper? If two bins are given to each household, segregation can be done at the source.”
 
 Chairman of the standing committee   instructed the health department to overcome the lacuna.
 
