Hubballi: While the government imposing 12%   on   has triggered protests and debates across the country, women from north Karnataka have put the spotlight on  , which is in use in the western countries since the ’60s, but is still not available in the Indian market.

 Suprisingly, a few women from well-to-do families of Hubballi-Dharwad have been using menstrual cups.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sheela (name changed), a doctor, said that she had been using menstrual cups for the past three decades. “I bought one in Canada in 1998. Then I bought another online in 2008. Their validity is minimum 10 years, so women can use them comfortably for a long time. A menstrual cup costs Rs 400-500 at present,” she said.
 
 Geetanjali (name changed), an industrialist, said that menstrual cups were more woman-friendly than sanitary napkins and tampons. “These cups are made of medical grade silicon, just like nipples for milk feeding. Cups are available in various sizes for adolescent girls to women who have attained menopause. On average, they can hold discharge of up to 35ml, they come with storage capacities of 10ml to 80ml. It’s reusable up to 10 years, but needs to be sterilized after every use. They are also cheaper than pads and tampons,” she said.
 
 Dr HS Anupama, a gynecologist and a Kannada writer, said that when she wrote about menstrual cups on her blog (http://bhoomibalaga.blogspot.in), she got an overwhelming response from the women of north Karnataka. “However, there is a possibility of hymen getting torn by these cups. But girls and women need not worry as that can happen during cycling, sports and other activities too.” she said.
 
 She alleged that companies making sanitary napkins in India never bothered to launch menstrual as feared losing on business worth crores. “If governments are really concerned for women, they should distribute menstrual cups among them. They must ensure that it’s produced in the country,” she added.
 
 K Neela, vice president, Akhila Bharat Janavadi Mahila Sanghatan, said the state committee of Sanghatan has decided to publish a booklet on how to use menstrual cups. “As many women of our state are still unable to buy online, we plan to buy these cups online in bulk and to sell them at no profit. We will also organize awareness camps to educate women about menstrual cups,” she said.
 
 Menstrual cups better than pads?
 
 Menstrual Cups
 
 Sanitary Napkins
 
 Very economical. Rs 500 for a cup that lasts up to 10 years
 
 Costly. Rs 900 per year
 
 Reusable
 
 Can’t be resued. India contributes 9,000 tons of non-degradable pads every month
 
 No risk of infection as it’s silicon
 
 Infection causes itching, fungus, white discharge due to raw material used 
 
 Can be used for 4-12 hours. Needs to be sterlized 
 
 Can be used on average for 6 hrs
 
 Eom/12.7.17/by Sangamesh
 
 
