Handsome and charming  , who will soon be seen in Bollywood film  , recently visited the TimesOfIndia office and spoke about his upcoming film, TV industry and life. 

 Taking about the content on Television, the actor said that TV industry needs to evolve more and get good shows in its kitty, "As an audience, I feel we have to evolve and get more shows in our kitty. But looking at the current situation in the Television industry I don't understand who to blame. There was such a beautiful show P.O.W I really liked the show because of its performances, but it didn't do well. So, who is to be blamed here? - the channel, the production house or the fans. People didn't watch the show even though it had a beautiful story. There is other stuff going on Television, shows that I am not proud of I can't name them, but they are there and people are loving it. I fail to understand why such shows are getting recognition which they shouldn't. If audiences really want to watch good content they have to stop watching these shows. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Gautam, who has always been part of popular TV shows like  ,   and  , has always stayed away from saas bahu and reality shows. When asked about the reason, he said, "I don't feel like doing it as I think I won't be able to handle it. I don't like the idea of a reality show. It makes me like a student in school who is competing in a competition. Right now if you ask me if I am interested in doing a reality I would say no. I have been on the other side of it. I've hosted these shows and I know what goes into making it. But never say never as tomorrow, I don't know if I take up a reality show."
 
 The 40-year-old actor is one of the most eligible bachelors of TV and with rumours of him dating his Suryaputra Karn co-star   doing the rounds, is marriage on cards soon for the actor? Gautam replied, "I will be settling down soon. I am not saying I am seeing someone. I will officially come out with a statement soon. Let things go forward and come to marriage. Just seeing someone and painting the town red is not my type, if I am getting married I will announce it which I am going to. I will get married next year abhi toh kar leni chahiye warn a gaadi choot jaayegi yaar..." (laugh). 
 
