In the latest episode of  , Anika, Gauri and Bhavya push Shivaay, Om and Rudra in the pool. While the boys get angry, the girls laugh at them and leave. Pinki sees this and is disturbed. Ragini asks her if   wants   back in his life. Pinki says she knows what is best for him and how she would never let Anika come back in Shivaay's life. 
 
 Pinki asks Ragini if she likes Shivaay. Ragini tells her she does. Pinki assures her he would be hers in no time. This makes Ragini happy. Elsewhere, while Anika and Bhavya are cool about throwing Shivaay and Rudra in the pool, but Gauri worries about Om catching cold. 
  
 When Om, Rudra and Shivaay come to the kitchen to have hot chocolate, Gauri, Bhavya and Anika laugh at their drenched state. They stand tall with pride as if nothing happened. Om and Rudra return to their rooms to take a shower. Shivaay and Anika stare each other. Shivaay gets close to her and asks her if she is jealous of his engagement to Ragini. She tells him she's not affected. 
  
 Pinky and Ragini look at them. Pinki worries if Anika and Shivaay stay under the same roof, they will fall in love again. She comes up with a plan, wherein she decides to take help from Ragini's ex-boyfriend Siddharth. 
 
  
  
 While Gauri and Bhavya are setting up the table, Shivaay comes. He somehow shifts the topic of discussion to Anika, which makes Gauri and Bhavya remark how she is his favourite. Anika places medicine in Shivaay's room, which he thinks has been kept by OmRu.
  
 Om, Rudra and Shivaay share some fun banter over food. Later, Anika and Shivaay cross paths. On seeing Dadi sad, the two of them go to her. She tells them how she is sad over the fact that none of them could handle their relationship. Gauri and Bhavya are distanced from Om and Rudra. Shivaay and Anika take it upon themselves to unite the jodis. 
  
 Ragini seeks her brother's help to get Shivaay back. While Anika and Shivaay are busy planning ways to reunite their brothers and wives, Ragini tries a new tactic to gain Shivaay's attention. She tells him how she has been receiving threatening messages from Siddharth. Shivaay decides to do something about it. 
  
 Keep watching this space for more updates on Ishqbaaz.
 
 
 
  
 
