CUTTACK: At least 31 new jaundice cases were reported in the city on Friday, taking the total number of affected persons to 167. The water-borne disease has spread to newer areas. After ward numbers 8, 9, 10 and 16, jaundice cases have now been reported from ward number 23 as well. CMC officials reviewed the situation in ward 23 and collected water samples from the area. 

 Meanwhile, residents of one of the worst-affected areas,  , have alleged that they are not getting proper supply of drinking water. "In the wake of jaundice outbreak, water pipelines have been disconnected in many houses but the CMC has failed to provide alternative water supply to us," said  , a resident of Tulasipur. Meanwhile, the public health engineering organization ( ) on Friday lodged FIRs against six people in the city for water theft, in its efforts to launch a citywide crackdown to curb jaundice.
 
 While surveying drinking water supply pipelines in jaundice-affected areas, PHEO staff discovered that many people in ward number 8 and 9 illegally cut into the main water pipeline and connect it to their houses without the permission required for such a step. The PHEO, in addition to lodging cases under section 379 (theft) of IPC against six people, has also disconnected 50 such illegal water connections.
 
 "Of the six against whom water theft cases have been lodged, four are residents of ward number 9 while the other two are residents of ward number 9," said CMC commissioner, Gyana Das. "More cases will be lodged against the violators. The move is aimed to send a strong message to citizens against illegal water connections,"   added.Cuttack Municipal Corporation (CMC) and PHEO officials claimed that illegal water connections are one of the main causes behind the outbreak of jaundice in the city. 
 
 "To avoid paying water bills, some people connect water pipelines illegally to their houses. As these connections are not proper, they leak and water gets easily contaminated with drain water, leading to jaundice, diarrhoea and other water-borne diseases," said a PHEO official.
 
