 Agra: Police here have filed an FIR under serious non-bailable sections against 69 members of Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal, including 29 named, for indulging in celebratory firing and raising slogans against another community on 'Vijay Dashmi'. On Saturday TOI reported about how saffron-clad activists armed with pistols, rifles and swords allegedly raised slogans against another community and fired several shots in the air close to the Agra Fort, which is a world heritage monument, while foreign tourist were passing by.   Those named in the FIR include VHP president Sunil Parashar, general secretary Rajeev Sharma and city president Deepak Agrawal. The other names are Rajendar Garg , Digvijaynath Tiwari, Ravi Dubey, Deepak Verma, Anoop Verma, Ajay Tomar. Head of the gauraksha group of Bajrang Dal Anupam Pandit, Bunty Thakur and 57 others were also booked.    Based on a written complaint filed by station officer Sanjeev Kumar Tomar of Rakabganj, an FIR was registered late on Saturday night against right-wing men under IPC sections 143 (whoever is a member of an unlawful assembly, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with both), 144 (joining unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 153AA (by words, either spoken, or by signs or by visible representations or otherwise, promotes or attempts to promote, on grounds of religion, or community or any other ground whatsoever disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different religious groups or castes or communities).    The other IPC sections slapped on the accused also include 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 298 (uttering words, etc, with deliberate intent to wound religious feelings), 307 (attempt to murder), 505 (3) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes, committed in place of worship, etc in any place of worship or in any assembly engaged in the performance of religious worship or religious ceremonies, shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to five years and shall also be liable to fine).    These people were also booked under section 7 of the Criminal law Act and section 30 of the Arms Act.    Inspector Sanjeev Kumar Tomar said, “Aaround 70-80 right wing men gathered with weapons at the Hanuman temple near the Agra Fort on Saturday. The group violated the orders issued by the local administration. Section 144 of the CrPc was enforced in the area, keeping in mind the Dusshera celebrations at the Ramlila ground. The group raised highly objectionable slogans against the other community and fired several shots in the air with their licenced weapons. The action of VHP and Bajrang Dal members created a sense of insecurity among local residents and tourists, following which a stampede-like situation occurred, endangering the lives of many.”    Speaking to TOI, deputy superintendent of police and circle officer of Sadar, Udairaj Singh, said, “The group crossed all limits and challenged the administration, which was making all efforts to maintain law and order and peace on the occasion. They (members of VHP and Bajrang Dal) fired weapons and raised slogans against another community, prompting us to book them. Our teams are carrying out searches for the accused people, who are o the run.”    Speaking to TOI over phone, VHP president Sunil Parashar said, “The local administration has failed to come out of the mindset that was prevalent during the previous regime. Every year, 'shastra pujan' (worshiping of weapons) rituals are performed at the Ramlila ground on the occasion of 'Vijay Dashmi'. Over-enthusiast members of VHP and Bajrang Dal indulged in celebratory firing amid slogans such as ‘Jai Sri Ram’, but their activities were confined to the temple premises, which is far away from Agra Fort.”    When asked why the over-enthusiast saffron-clad men raised objectionable slogans against the other community during the festival, Parashar said, “The administration has launched a crackdown on us for our slogans, but it does not see how members of the other community create ruckus in the city on the occasion of Muharram.”