CHENNAI: In a bid to revive its old anti-Hindi plank which helped the party emerge as a key Dravidian player in the 1960s,   has directed its district secretaries and senior partymen to take classes to educate youth about the Centre's plans to "impose" Hindi on Tamil Nadu. 

 At the district secretaries meeting held last week, a resolution was passed asking secretaries to meet youth in their districts and explain to them the Centre's proposal to make it mandatory for dignitaries, from the President of India to ministers, to deliver speeches in Hindi, highway milestones in Hindi and government circulars in Hindi. 
 
  recall that even in the early 1960s, the DMK depended on youth to   and used the plank effectively to capture power in the state in 1967. But, it remains to be seen how effective the party's latest move would be in the current political scenario and whether it could stir parochial passions, say observers. 
 
 "Today the Centre wants to impose Hindi in Tamil Nadu through various means. Similarly there is no relief for Tamil Nadu students from National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET). Thus to educate students and youth on these two issues, district secretaries will have to convene a workshop in their areas," said a resolution passed at the district secretaries' meeting. 
 
 Soon after the meeting, the DMK headquarters appointed several senior leaders to visit the districts and address the youth. Senior DMK leaders S Duraimurugan and T K S Elangovan will visit party districts of Chennai west, Kancheepuram north, Madurai north, Kanyakumari east, Virudhunagar south and Tirunelveli central. The leaders will contact district secretaries concerned and decide on dates when the workshops would be conducted. 
 
 "DMK is not against a person learning Hindi. But we are strongly opposed to the language being imposed on people. If we are against the language then why are there so many schools where Hindi is second or third language?" asked Madhavaram MLA and DMK's Chennai north district secretary S Sudharsanam. 
 
 
