Chandigarh: Attacking the Punjab Congress government for allegedly selectively tweaking the rules to appoint ex-chief minister Beant Singh’s grandson as a DSP, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has sought scrapping of the appointment.

 The TOI had on Thursday reported how the state government conveniently ignored the fact that Beant Singh’s grandson Guriqbal Singh has a B.Com degree through distance education mode from Periyar University in Salem (Tamil Nadu) though its study centre MS Institute is in New Delhi. Earlier, the state government had denied appointment to 192 clerks selected against the advertisement issued in 2013 since they had graduation degrees from the universities outside the state through distance education mode.
 
 SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said, “When 192 candidates have already been denied government jobs on the same issue, how can the state government recruit Guriqbal? The only possible reason could be Guriqbal’s VIP stature considering that his brother Ravneet Bittu is a Congress MP from Ludhiana and his cousin (Gurkirat Singh Kotli) is a Congress legislator from Khanna”.
 
 The Punjab council of ministers had on May 30 given its nod to appoint Guriqbal as a DSP on compassionate grounds since his grandfather Beant Singh was assassinated on August 31, 2005. A decision was taken to relax the upper age limit by eight months and seven days to accommodate Guriqbal and he was issued appointment letter on June 7.
 
 Demanding scrapping of the appointment, Cheema said, “Wasn’t it enough that you relaxed the upper age limit for appointment as DSP to accommodate the former CM’s grandson? Now it has come to light that you even flouted several rules including those of the UGC which state that no university - central, state or private can offer its programmes through franchising agreement with private coaching institutions even for conducting courses through distance education”.
 
 Alleging another case of nepotism, Cheema said, “The government has also refunded Rs 84 lakh charged in the form of penal rent from former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal. This despite other politicians being charged penal rent for overstaying in government accommodation.”
 
 
