As extraordinary as it may sound, given its historic significance, the 17th century   in Old Delhi never enjoyed official protection. That will change now with the country's largest mosque becoming a protected structure, along with 550 other heritage buildings in the  . Delhi government has notified them under Section 7.26 of Delhi Building Byelaws for Conservation and Protection.

 Of the heritage buildings notified in the second list, the first list having come out in 2010, 526 fall under the jurisdiction of the   and 25 under the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. Apart from Jama Masjid, some others slated for protection and conservation are Nigam Bodh Ghat, Anglo-Sanskrit School, Gadodia Market, Ambedkar University offices, CPI(M) office building, the   Hotel on Church Mission Road and the Canara Bank building in Daryaganj.
 
 “Of the 551 buildings, at least 475 buildings are havelis,“ said an official.“Protecting the Walled City's havelis has been a priority for many years. Now, any construction work related to a protected haveli will require the permissions of the municipal corporation and the heritage conservation committee.'' Left out of the first list, conservationists later felt that the sprawling havelis, most of which had historical elements associated with them, needed protection to prevent any alteration to their original character.
 
 While alteration might no longer be easy, owners of protected havelis would, however, now be eligible to receive government funding for the maintenance of their buildings. Prohibitive maintenance and repair-related costs had led to a large number of Old Delhi's havelis facing decay.
 
 An official said the listing also exempted the heritage buildings from exemption of any property tax payable to the civic bodies. “The municipal bodies have said that conversion charges will also be waived for these heritage properties if their original characteristics are maintained. Both benefits are aimed at giving incentives to owners to maintain and restore their properties,“ said the official.
 
 The Shahjanabad Redevelopment Corporation has also proposed that any haveli owner who desired to restore a notified property should be able to avail a government loan on condition that a portion of the property is used for purpose like museums or guesthouses for five years. The proposal is awaiting final nod.
 
 The second list of buildings for conservation was created after the 2010 one, comprising 767 structures, skipped many buildings that needed protection from vandalism and decay . “Many mosques and buildings, especially havelis under private ownership, were passed over in the first list,“ said an official. The India National Trust for Art and   (Intach) carried out a fresh survey and came up with new recommendations.
 
 A third, and the final, list of the Walled City's historic buildings has also been prepared, according to sources. This list enumerates havelis, mosques and buildings overlooked in the first two lists.
 
