People often look back on their past with fond memories, and feel that things were probably better in the past than they are at present. In some ways, scientific progress had made life much easier, while other aspects have suffered at the hands of the future. Food grains for instance, have been genetically modified to develop disease or drought resistance, and the   available now are heavily refined, thus losing some of their nutrients. Indeed, results from a clinical trial indicate that ancient grain varieties are probably better at keeping the risk factors for heart disease at bay.

 The study included 45 healthy adults with an average age of 50 years. The study was conducted over three phases: first, subjects were randomly assigned to include bread from organically (22 participants) or conventionally grown (23) Verna, an ancient grain, in their diet. After eight weeks, all subjects were asked to eat bread made with the modern grain Blasco. Eight weeks later, subjects were required to eat bread made with two different ancient grain varieties (  and Autonomia B). Before the study started and at the end of each phase, blood samples were obtained from subjects to assess lipid,  , and glucose levels. The results demonstrated that after two months of consuming bread made from ancient grains, levels of total cholesterol,   (LDL) (“bad” cholesterol), and   went down. No such reduction was observed after consumption of bread from modern grains. Researchers believe that the ancient varieties contain anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, along with vitamins and minerals, that could halt the progress of chronic disease.
 
 Maybe the time has come for a change. Back with the old, and out with the new.
 
 
 
 1.Sereni A, Cesari F, Gori AM, et al., Int J Food Sci Nutr. 2016 Aug 9:1-7. [Epub ahead of print]
 
 
 
 Dr. K. K. Barman, Consultant Diabetologist & Director, Barman Diabetes Specialities Pvt. Ltd., Guwahati
 E-mail: karunabarman@yahoo.com
 
 
 : The views and opinions expressed by the Doctors are their independent professional judgment and we do not take any responsibility for the accuracy of their views. This should not be considered as a substitute for Physician's advice. Please consult your treating Physician for more details.
 
 
