JAIPUR: In yet another incident of reckless driving by private bus drivers in the city, an 8-year-old girl died and her mother was injured when their scooter was hit by a speeding mini-bus near   area of the city on Saturday afternoon.

 According to police, the victim,  , was returning back from the school along with her mother Geeta when the bus hit them and run over the child. “The bus driver here race with each other to arrive at their bus depot before others. The accused driver rammed into the scooter and fled from the spot, without even bothering to take the injured to the hospital,” the police said.
 
 A profusely bleeding Ridhima lay on the road before people informed the PCR and a 108 ambulance. “The child died while on her way to the hospital as much blood was lost and her head was smashed in the  ,” the police official said, adding that mother too is battling for life in the hospital.
 
 The people tried to catch the guilty driver but he escaped. “The bus was also not in good shape as its brakes were weak. We have registered a case against the driver,” said a senior police official. 
 
 According to  , station house officer of Accident police station ( ), the mother and her daughter were returning back from the school and were driving in a low speed in their lane. But the accused driver changed his lane and hit into them.
 
 While the police are investigating the case, the latest incident has exposed the vulnerability of the cops to crack a whip on the bus drivers who flout traffic norms and often embark on deadly race to arrive at their destination early.
 
 “A few months ago an elderly woman too was killed in the accident when a bus hit her from behind. We tried to stop and catch the offender but he escaped,” the police said, adding that private bus operators have a strong political backing due to which any action against them becomes evokes strong protest from all quarters. 
 
 The spot where the accident took place on Saturday has been prone to similar accidents as bus drivers have injured many motorists and pedestrians. “If you object to their behaviours, the bus drivers are likely to hurl abuse and even beat up people,” the official said.
 
 
