LUDHIANA: While AAP given ticket to two names -H S Phoolka and Jarnail Singh -closely associated with the   fight for justice, local man   has his own appeal among the group in Ludhiana. Across the   in Dugri where the maximum victim families can be found, those who will vote for the 'letterbox' say that for them it does not matter which political group Bains has tied up with since he himself is popular.

 In the LIG flats, people are getting ready on Saturday afternoon to attend a birthday party in a few hours. “It is our MLA's birthday today and the young boys working with him have organized a party. It is being done with elections in mind but Bains is highly popular here and we are all attending the party,“ says  , as she busily knits a muffler in the winter sun.
 
 Her friend Gurcharan Kaur, who moved to Ludhiana from Mandaoli in Delhi after losing her husband to the riots, stresses that the community is looking for a local leader. “Bains gets a lot of work done for us. It does not matter to him whether a person is associated with one party or the other. AAP makes no difference to us. We want a local leader, not someone who will call shots from Delhi. All of us were Akali supporters at one time but the party has changed. They did nothing for us. Our youth is still unemployed,“ she said.
 
 Till recently, most victims say they voted en masse for Akali Dal, having shunned the Congress since the riots.This year with AAP in the fray, there are plenty in the LIG colony who say they will vote against the Akalis. “Earlier, we had no choice. If we rejected the Congress we had to go with Akali. Now, at least there is an option for us. But it is true, it is not AAP we are voting for, it is Bains,“ said another Gurcharan Kaur.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Barely half a kilometer away in the CRPF colony , the mood is largely in favour of Akali Dal. Gurdeep Kaur, the president of the women's wing of the 1984 Sikh riots welfare society in Punjab, is also an active member of SAD and is busy with organizing a public meeting for the local Akali Dal candidate.“There are about 21,000 families of victims in Ludhiana district and most supported Akali Dal because it was a `panthic' government. When AAP came to power in Delhi, many of us had decided to support the party if it came to Punjab but then it went and took support from the Congress. For us, if any party takes or gives support to Congress, it is the worst kind of betrayal,“ she said.
 
 Papinder Kaur and her sister-in-law Charanjit, who came to Ludhiana from Sultanpuri in Delhi, say that Akali Dal did a lot of work for the riot victims when they moved to Punjab. “We cannot abandon them right now, even if they might be losing in the state. They have given us scholarships, loans, red and blue cards for subsidized food grains. If AAP could take support from the Congress in Delhi, how do we know that they won't take their support in Punjab if nobody gets a clear majority? It doesn't matter if they set up an SIT, or gave compensation an SIT, or gav to victims.We will never support a Congress supporter,“ said Papinder. Residents also say that teams from Delhi, claiming to be former AAP members, have been visiting homes and distributing pamphlets saying how AAP reneged on several promises it had made there.
 
