PUNE: Better late than never. The city's wait for the ultimate for m of cricket will be over on Thursday.
And what can be a better debut than a match between the two titans of Test cricket -Virat Kohli's India and Steve Smith's Australia. The   will play host to them in the first Test of the four-match series.
 
 Pune started hosting firstclass matches in September 1893 with Bombay Presidency matches.The Europeans vs Parsees was the maiden first-class match here at Deccan Gym khana. It took Pune about 180 first-class games, 13 one-dayers, two T20 Internationals and 25 IPL matches before getting to host a well-deserved Test match.
 
 When the Gahunje stadium hosted the Ranji Trophy final between Mumbai and Saurashtra last February, it was a clear sign of the venue being on the verge of hosting a Test match.
 
 It was not the first Ranji Trophy final hosted by Pune, though. The Poona Club had seen DB Deodhar's Maharashtra defeating United Province in the 1939-40 Ranji final.
 
 The Club of Maharashtra ground, later turned into Nehru stadium, came into the first-class mix in December 1949 and hosted 96 first-class games till November 2005. It also hosted 11 one-dayers, including the upset of West Indies by Kenya in the 1996 World Cup.
 
 Even the National Defence Academy ground at Khadakwasla contributed to the his tory of Pune's first-class cricket when it hosted the Ranji match between Maharashtra and Saurashtra in November 1956. The hosts' paceman Vasant Ranjane had taken nine wickets in an innings, including a hat-trick, in that match.
 
 Many cricketers contributed to Pune's cricketing journey with D B Deodhar playing the lead. When he led Maharashtra to the Ranji title in 1939-40, his teammates were Vijay Hazare, Nosh Nagarwala, Ranga Sohoni, Kamal Bhandarkar and Khandu Rangnekar. All of them be came towering personalities.
 
 Nagarwala also went on to umpire in five Test matches be tween 1952 and 1960.He served as the principal of The Bishop's School. The National Model School (NMS), Kalyaninagar, was later renamed in his honour.
 
 Bhandarkar groomed numerous young players at Wadia College, who went on to don Maharashtra and India caps. His nous of the batting technique was rated so highly that even Sunil Gavaskar used to consult him -the prime example being after the 1980-81 Australia tour.
 
 The city's elevation to the Test venue could have been fast-tracked in the 1980s and 1990s. Several reasons -the primary being the lack of ambition and Maharashtra Cricket Association (MCA)'s dearth of persuasive power at the   meetings -contributed to Pune not getting the Test status.
 
 Former MCA secretary Anant Mate said: “It would have been very difficult to manage a Test match at Nehru stadium. We could host an ODI because people did not mind inconvenience for just one day.“
 
 He said, “Nagpur hosted Test matches regularly from 1983. But the VCA ( ) stadium had better facilities in terms of dining areas, lifts and toilets as compared to the Nehru stadium.“
 
 The BCCI politics also made a dent in Pune's hopes.Test cricket was a moneyspinner till about 2000. Why would officials from big state associations vote in favour of spreading Test cricket to other centres? That would have meant fewer matches at these powerful centres because of BCCI's rotation policy in case new Test centres were to be added to the list.
 
 Furthermore, a Test centre used to get a seat in the  . Who would like to share power?
 From 1998 to 2011, Test matches in India were mainly hosted in just eight centres -the four metro cities and Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Nagpur and Mohali. Not surprisingly, only these cities hosted the 2011 World Cup matches co-hosted by India.
 
 Two factors contributed to the change in equation vis-àvis Pune getting to host a Test.First, the dwindling Test spec tators on the ground after the advent of IPL in 2008. Second, former MCA president Ajay Shirke's ambitious project to build the association's own international standard stadium -well-equipped to host high-profile matches.
 
 Though the Nehru stadium was in the heart of the city, it clearly lacked modern infrastructure to host even ODIs with pride. The demand for freebies from the Pune Municipal Cor poration, Town Hall Committee and Club of Maharashtra -all stakeholders in the Nehru stadium -was going beyond the acceptable limit by each passing one-dayer.
 
 This prompted Shirke tak ing a lead role in the idea and execution of the Gahunje stadium with generous help from then BCCI president Shashank Manohar and his predecessor Sharad Pawar.
 
 When Pune was given the Test status, the BCCI officials ensured other cities waiting to get the status -Indore Rajkot, Vizag, Ranchi and Dharamshala -were also given a green signal at the same time, thus keeping eve rybody, who had built new stadiums andor hosted IPL games with success, happy . (With inputs from Tushar Dutt)
 
