KOCHI: State government has opposed State Bank of India’s plan to acquire   (SBT) before the high court and has alleged that the move is without any rhyme or reason.

 The opposition was raised in the form of a counter affidavit filed in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Save SBT Forum chairman  . As per the affidavit filed by the chief secretary, the acquisition would adversely affect the pivotal role played by SBT in the state, being a bank preferred by the government since the formation of the state. Government has expressed its fear that the acquisition may turn out bad as was in the case of two of State Bank of India’s associate banks –– State Bank of Sourashtra and State Bank of Indore –– in 2008 and 2010, respectively.
 
 SBT, which was operating as an independent bank prior to the formation of Kerala, continued to be so even after it and it was only in 1959 that it was made an associate bank of SBI, government points out.
 
 Large number of government treasuries are attached to SBT branches. Moreover, SBT plays a pivotal role in providing agricultural, industrial, and self-employment loans and the government is working in tandem with the bank in providing subsidies. SBT is thus providing loans to the poor people in the state compared to other banks. Disappearance of SBT will affect NRI investment to the state, especially when 90% of the investment received by the bank is spent in Kerala by way of loans for agriculture, industry, education, etc. The bank plays a crucial role in shaping modern Kerala, government reasons.
 
 “Transformation of the bank into one with a national outlook instead of its regional outlook would jeopardise SBT’s position as a regional bank,” government’s affidavit stated.
 
 The proposal to acquire SBT was introduced in SBI’s director board meeting as an out-of-agenda item by its managing director. This was opposed by two nominees of SBT and two representatives of workers in the board but the acquisition plan is being implemented without heeding to their resistance. The remaining nine directors are either nominees of the Reserve Bank of India, SBI, or the central government, state government alleged in the affidavit.
 
 
