When a magician performs a trick, it is often the art of misdirection that makes the trick a success. By inviting the spectator to focus on one aspect of the event, the magician completes the task seemingly unnoticed, thus deluding the brain into thinking it witnessed the paranormal. While sometimes focusing on the wrong thing may be entertaining, as in the case of the magic trick, at other times this wrong focus may be detrimental to health. For example, all this while we were focusing on saturated fats as the main cause of   (CHD). Recent evidence has shown that   is the main culprit responsible for  , and that cutting sugar from the diet rather than saturated fats would be a better option to prevent CHD.

 In general, people eat complex foods and not individual nutritional components. Some foods containing a variety of saturated fatty acids may not have an impact on the total cholesterol level or the level of low density lipoproteins (LDLs or “bad” cholesterol) or high density lipoproteins (HDLs or “good” cholesterol), and in some cases may actually be protective. Therefore, without taking into consideration the individual contribution of the fats on the cholesterol levels of the body, restricting the intake of these foods may actually predispose people to CHD. On the other hand, replacing saturated fats with refined sugars such as sucrose and fructose, that are a part of most processed foods today, can potentially increase the risk of CHD by messing with the levels of LDLs and HDLs. Other complications of a sugar-rich diet include elevated glucose levels, insulin, and uric acid, hampered glucose tolerance, insulin resistance, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease etc. 
 
 Moral of the story: cut the risk of heart disease out of your life by cutting out sugar!
 
 
 
 1. DiNicolantonio JJ, Lucan SC, O'Keefe JH. Prog Cardiovasc Dis. 2015 Nov 14. [Epub ahead of print]
 
 
 
 Dr. Sanjay Kumar Roy, M.D., D.M. (Endo.), Diabetologist & Endocrinologist, Consultant Apollo Hospital, Ranchi
 
 
  The views and opinions expressed by the Doctors are their independent professional judgment and we do not take any responsibility for the accuracy of their views. This should not be considered as a substitute for Physician's advice. Please consult your treating Physician for more details.
 
 
