VELLORE: Monday’s   at a   on the outskirts of Gudiyattam Town, which claimed the life of a 35-year-old man besides injuring 17 others, had exposed the lack of adequate   and facility for firefighters to handle fire accidents and carry out rescue services in dangerous circumstances.

 Though Gudiyatham, famously known as ‘Kutti’ Sivakasi, has 134 licensed match factories, the fire station in the town is not equipped to handle fire accidents in the hazardous industry. The factories have been using explosive chemicals like sulphur, potassium chlorate and around 22 variants of other chemicals for making matchsticks and match boxes. Over 7,000 workers are working in the sector.
 
 Apart from match factories, the district has hundreds of hazardous industries such as tanneries, leather and chemical industries in Ambur, SIPCOT Ranipet and Pernambut. However, none of the fire stations in the district are equipped to handle a fire in such industries, said sources in the   department.
 
 The fire and rescue station in Gudiyatham has a 4,500 litre capacity water tender headed by a six-member unit with a standby team. It lacks foam tender, which is used to handle chemical related fire accidents, said the sources
 
 “It took nearly two hours to pull out all the 18 victims caught inside the godown on Monday. We managed to contain the fire by 12 in the night,” said a firefighter and added it clearly exposed the department’s inability. Recollecting the recent fire accident at the processing unit of Gujarat Enviro Protection and Infrastructure Limited at SICPOT, Ranipet, he said it took 30 hours for a team of 60 firefighters to put out the fire.
 
 Firefighters, preferring anonymity, said they have been pleading with the department to provide chemical suits and breathing apparatus in adequate numbers to ensure their safety while handling major fires in hazardous industries. “Such gear is usually not available. Mini-foam tenders are available only in Vellore and Tirupattur station,” claimed a firefighter.
 
 “The smoke billowing from the fire due to chemicals, particularly sulphur and potassium chlorate, can blind a person temporarily. We will also lose consciousness if we inhale the toxic smoke,” said another firefighter.
 
 The fire tenders had been also reduced to one from two each in the fire stations in Ambur, Gudiyatham, Arakkonam, SIPCOT Ranipet, Arakkonam and Tirupattur. “We represented the issue of reducing fire tenders from Gudiyatham. Citing financial constraint, the officials refused to retain the fire tender in Gudiyattam,” said president of Gudiyattam Cottage Match Industries Association V G Dhanapal.
 
 Denying the charges, deputy director of fire and rescue services, north region, Meenakshi Vijayakumar said they have provided firefighters with modern safety gear such as fire proximity suit, mini-foam tenders and emergency rescue tender as per the needs. “We are also taking steps to equip them with necessary gear and equipment to modernise the department,” she said.
 
 
