The success of the latest Mollywood hit   hinges on the fact that the audience was hooked to every scene and each emotion of its protagonist played by  . With every turn the police investigation takes, the audience end up rooting more for the character often oblivious to the fact that he’s a   and can have a poor moral compass compared to the usual hero archetype.

 This realisation has also dawned on filmmakers in Mollywood, who have now increasingly started making movies with protagonists, who don’t quite fit into the goody two shoes hero mould. Last year, there were films such as Vettah,   and Shajahanum Pareekuttyum with such protagonists. Now, Nivin Pauly’s upcoming film Kayamkulam Kochunni has him playing the legendary thief with a golden heart and even Mammootty’s film with Ajai Vasudevan will feature a protagonist whose criminal background helps him discipline an unruly group of college students. 
 
 Elaborating on the challenges while creating such morally grey protagonists, the scriptwriter of Thondi-muthalum Driksakshiyum, Sajeev Pazhoor, says, “As such characters don’t really fit into an existing formula, the director’s vision and actor’s perception of the character become vital. That’s what worked in favour of Fahadh’s character in the film, because he was able to convince the audience and take them for the ride. Everything else then becomes immaterial.”
 
 Getting the audience to sympathise with and support someone who is morally ambiguous is not something new, as he points out that Padmarajan did it best in Kallan Pavithran, which had Nedumudi Venu playing the titular character of a petty thief.
 
 Agreeing with him is scriptwriter Babu Janardhanan, who had written Swarnakaduva last year that revolved around Biju Menon’s character of a morally corrupt businessman.
 
 “If you look at the beginning phases of   cinema, right from Kallichellammma and Anubhavangal Paalichakal to Kallan Pavithran, the protagonists have all had their vices but that didn’t deter the audience from supporting them,” he says.
 
 Janardhanan explains that it’s because the earlier films were inspired by real people – who have shortcomings. “The 80s and 90s saw an influx of movies that tried to paint the heroes as ideal men. After that, comedies ruled the roost in which characters needn’t be fleshed out. In the last few years though, Malayalam cinema is once again seeking inspiration from reality,” he says.
 
 The trick to make the audience relate to these characters is to keep them genuine, says Janardhanan, who had also scripted Vasthavam that had Prithviraj playing a shrewd and corrupt youth who quickly climbs the ladders of bureaucracy.
 
 “Even if you create a grey character, you have to ensure that his intentions are genuine. If he does something bad, the audience has to be convinced that’s because that’s how he is as a person. That’s often enough to make his character appealing,” he says.
 
 Ironically, throughout actor Dileep’s career, he had essayed characters that were morally corrupt, and yet churned out hits such as Meesa Madhavan, Crazy Gopalan, Runway and Kochi Rajavu. The actor also had a film titled Pickpocket lined up before his arrest.
 
 Superstars such as Mammootty and Mohanlal have been picking the trend and gone on to do films such as Munnariyippu, Puthenpanam, Janatha Garage and Drishyam, in which their characters stray into the grey area.
 
 Sajeev says, “It’s because such characters also offer filmmakers a different perspective. Not a lot of films are told from the angle of thieves or those perceived as villains. Audience also have a set perception of such characters and every film helps break that preconceived notion.”
 
 The scope and appeal of these characters are not lost on the young stars of Mollywood either. In fact, Nivin Pauly has chosen such a role for his upcoming Tamil film,  . Its director Gautam Ramachandran says, “His character doesn’t fall in the conventional category of heroes. He’s got his flaws and that’s also what makes the audience relate to him. The film also gives Nivin a chance to showcase a side of him that the audience has not seen.”
 
