LUCKNOW: A day after poll dates were announced by the  , some schools in Lucknow announced extra marks and/or rebate in school fees to students whose parents vote in the  . Voting in Lucknow is on February 19.

 According to the principals, the exercise is aimed ostensibly at encouraging awareness among citizens to exercise their franchise. Principal of   College, Rakesh Chattree, who initiated similar exercise during   polls in 2014 too, said, “With an incentive like this and for the benefit of their wards, parents will be all the more enthusiastic about voting.’’
 
 Students whose parents vote will be awarded 10 bonus marks in annual examinations and entries will be registered in a parent-teacher meeting. “The child’s name will be registered after parents show us the ink mark on their fingers. The extra marks could also be like grace marks for students who fail in one or more subjects, except in English,’’ said Chattree.
 
 For example, if a child of any class is two marks short of passing in mathematics and five marks in chemistry, he/she will be given these seven extra marks for promotion to next class. But this will only be when both parents show the ink mark. In case, either of the parent is out-of-town on the polling day, the student will have to present evidence to earn extra marks. 
 
 At  , there are five extra marks in final results and a fee waiver of Rs 100 in February for children whose parents vote. “To make democracy work, we must participate, not simply observe and we are giving incentives for doing that,” said Mala Singh Mehra. 
 
 UP Board recognised school Shyam Sunder Jamunadeen Inter College will give five marks to students who convince all members of family to cast their vote. A student can earn five additional marks if he encourages five families, apart from his own, to cast their vote. “Students will have to register names of family members in advance. All a child needs to show is the receipt issued by Election Commission after voting. We hope this will mobilise educated people to come out and vote,” said school principal J P Mishra. 
 
 The incentive is not limited to exams, it will also be visible in the character certificate awarded at time of passing out. Mishra suggested that a column for marking whether or not the child convinced his/her parents to vote and hence displayed a sense of civic consciousness will be added to the report card. 
 
