TNN

 Mumbai: A year before the current term of   Bank’s MD and CEO comes to an end, the board of directors of the bank has decided to look at the choices available. Headhunting firm Egon Zehnder is understood to have been appointed by the board to look at potential candidates. According to RBI approvals, the present term of the incumbent,  , is till June 30, 2018. Sources said that a similar exercise was carried out during the earlier two reappointments of the CEO. While the board would look at other candidates, it did not preclude a reappointment.
 
 “There is a laid-down process which the board undertakes at every renewal cycle and to conclude that there is going to be change of leadership is entirely premature and speculative,” the bank said in an emailed response to a query.
 
 Earlier in the day, a news agency report had said that the country’s third-largest private sector bank has appointed headhunters to start the search for a new CEO to succeed Sharma, who is set to step down next year. The report also said that executive search firm Egon Zehnder has been selected by the   board to identify a new CEO. 
 
 Prasad Menon, an independent director who is also chairman of the Axis Bank nomination committee, was reported to be leading the process.
 
 Sources confirmed that a search process was on, but they added that this does not preclude Sharma from being reappointed. A similar exercise was carried out before the board cleared the reappointment of Sharma for a third three-year term in January 2015.
 
 Sharma, who was appointed CEO in 2009, will be 59 when her present term ends — almost the same as Uday Kotak, chief of Kotak Bank. In 2014, the RBI had capped the maximum age for a managing director, chief executive officer or whole-time director in a private bank at 70. This cap was in line with the new Companies Act. In the private sector, HDFC Bank chief Aditya Puri is 66, Yes Bank MD & CEO Rana Kapoor is 59, and IndusInd Bank chief Romesh Sobti 67. 
 
 Shares of Axis Bank closed a rupee higher at Rs 513. The scrip has been under pressure since September 2016 due to NPA concerns. The share price of Axis Bank has tripled from the time Sharma took charge in 2009, in line with the broader Bankex. 
 
 
