With   becoming a cultural draw in most of the major cities around the world, it was only a matter of time before it found a place in your home. Sure enough, your house wall is the new canvas for street art artists. Homeowners looking for a signature sytle and a unique stamp for their home are now experimenting with their own selfies, folk tales, football heroes, movie posters and cartoon characters emblazoned on their terraces, outside walls, bedrooms and patios in   style. 

 
 
 Arty murals, wall graffiti helps homeowners flaunt their personalities and passions. Yogesh Saini, founder of Delhi Street Art says, “Until now, interior murals were an underutilised medium. We are experimenting with the boundary walls, interior walls of living rooms and terraces. People want to define their space through art and give it their signature style.” Saini and his set of street artists have recently painted vintage trunks in one home, florals in another and a tribal scene for another client. For a heritage haveli in  , his team did a folk theme on the terrace. 
 
 His claim: people want to play around with this new aesthetic. Like business owner Rajeev Mehta, 56, who got flowers and trees painted on his boundary walls facing the road. He says, “Even for a passerby, it’s interesting to look at a home with art on the outside than just plain white walls.” 
 
 
 
 Influenced by colourful murals that have sprung across the city, a growing number of Delhi-ites are choosing street art for interiors. IT entrepreneur Asif Khair’s verandah walls in the tony   colony of Greater Kailash carries a scene from Roman Holiday and football legends Messi and Ronaldo. Interior designer Tanya Khanna, got a tree with birds painted on her balcony and says that the sight inspires her every morning. 
 
 The experimentation has only begun. Kritika Mahindra, co-founder, Art on the Wall that promotes street artists has by now painted more than 70 home murals. She says, “Experimentation in street art at home has increased in last four years. Everyone is looking for customised art.”
  
  
  
  Top to bottom: An elephant mural; a scene from Roman holiday at a Delhi home; a selfie rendered in street art style for the bedroom
 
