PATNA: Grappling with shortage of  , the   has invited applications from bureaucrats outside the state to  .
 
  Interested officials have to submit applications with detailed resume recommended by their respective cadre-controlling authority. The applications should be accompanied by cadre and vigilance clearance and details of grading or remarks in annual confidential reports for the last five years, according to a notice uploaded to the state general administration department (GAD)’s website on Tuesday evening.
  
  A similar move to invite civil servants to serve in Bihar was made in September 2014. “The shortage of IAS officers remains a challenge even today,” a GAD official told TOI on Wednesday, adding 128 posts of the 342-strong Bihar cadre of IAS are vacant.
  
  Union minister Jitendra Singh had in March this year told the Lok Sabha that there was shortage of over 1,400 IAS and 900 IPS officers in the country with Bihar having the maximum vacancies of IAS officers. Such is the crisis that a number of IAS officers in Bihar are helming several departments
  
  Arun Kumar Singh of 1985 batch, for instance, looks after the water resources, parliamentary affairs and science and technology departments besides being the development commissioner and the SCADA chairman.
  
  Amir Subhani of 1987 batch is the principal secretary of home, minority welfare and prohibition, excise and registration departments. Another 1987-batch IAS official, R K Mahajan, is the principal secretary of two key departments -- education and health -- besides being an OSD at the state resident commissioner’s office in Delhi.
  
  Amrit Lal Meena of 1989 batch is the principal secretary of building construction, cooperative and road construction departments. He is also the MD of Bihar State Building Construction Corporation Limited and Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited.
  
  Patna divisional commissioner Anand Kishor of 1996 batch is also tasked with heading the Bihar School Examination Board and looking after the jails in the state as IG (prisons). He was recently given additional charge of DG (prosecution).
