Panaji: Given the climatic advantages and coastline of the state, Goa can adapt to non-motorised transport and be a  , executive director, centre for science and environment (CSE), Delhi, Anumita Roy Chowdhury said. She was speaking to TOI on the sidelines of a conference on ‘Changing Climates: Evolving Landscapes’ by the Indian Society of Landscape Architects (ISOLA), at Kala Academy, Panaji, on Friday.

 “The vehicular density in Goa is pretty low, with very little public transport connectivity. This makes people dependent on personal vehicles, as a result of which, the road side exposure to toxic fumes is going to increase,” said Roy Chowdhury said.
 
 Besides the increasing vehicle density by locals, that of tourists also adds to the risk, she said.
 
 “At a given time, there may be more tourists here in Goa compared to the local population. That will create a lot more demand for mobility and the dependence on diesel vehicles, resulting in more toxic emissions in the city,” she said.
 
 Stressing on the need to intervene in the early stage of pollution, she said, “If Goa is careful and can develop a transportation strategy, it can reach the urban areas. Goa can adapt to non-motorised transport like cycling, electric vehicles and more ferries. That means Goa can actually go zero-emission.
 
 She suggested that public spaces needed to be recreated with a lot of walkable spaces. “Heritage spaces in Old Goa and Fontainhas can be pedestrianised and that will reduce the carbon intensity caused by vehicles,” she said, adding that this will enhance the tourism and the health value of the state.
 
 Sharing her thoughts about the construction of new bridges in Goa, she said, “The government feels it is inevitable that the vehicle numbers will grow and we will need more space. This is not sustainable. Beyond a point, Goa cannot find enough road space to accommodate higher car density. If they make infrastructure for public transport, there will be no need for flyovers in the future.”
 
 
