AMRITSAR: Cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu said the Congress’s victory in Punjab assembly polls has marked the beginning of the party’s revival at the national level and was a step towards restoring Punjabi pride. He attributed the defeat of SAD-BJP to the ‘ego problem’ of its leaders and that of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to the “flawed thinking” of its leadership.

 Brimming with confidence, Sidhu, who won from the Amritsar East assembly constituency by defeating BJP’s district president Rajesh Honey, was talking to mediapersons at his residence on Saturday. He, however, skirted any questions about his possible elevation as deputy chief minister.
 
 Using his hallmark ‘Sidhuism’, he said, “The party’s victory is a gift with a red ribbon to Rahul bhai, Priyanka ji, Sonia Gandhi and Capt Sahib.” The former BJP MP from Amritsar Lok Sabha constituency had joined the Congress in January and was fielded from his wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu’s constituency.
 
 Terming himself as a small sepoy of Rahul bhai, the former cricketer said he had already conveyed to the party’s senior leadership that a beginning had been made from Punjab. Sidhu also hinted at exemplary punishment for those in drug trade. Asked about the party’s Punjab resurrection agenda, he said there was a need for some strong decisions for the welfare of the state and he was ready for any sacrifice. “Even if there was a need to beg for the state, I will go barefoot for the same,” said Sidhu.
 
 “I have always been saying ‘Na kohu say dosti, na kohu say ber, Sidhu mangay Punjab di khair’ (I wish neither for friendship nor enmity with anyone, only want good of Punjab),” he said.
 
 Ripping into the SAD-BJP combine, the former cricketer said, “Punjab ka khajana jo in choro dakuo nay loota hai dubara say bharangay, Punjab ka samman barkarar karangay (We will refill Punjab’s coffers, which were plundered by these thieves , dacoits and restore Punjab’s pride).”
 
 Attacking AAP’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal, Sidhu said, “This is a defeat of Kejriwal sahib’s hired pappus’ attempt of creating a fake wave on social media”. He alleged that Kejriwal had lost because his thinking about Punjab was flawed. 
 
 
