Panaji: Goa Pradesh Congress committee, on Wednesday, maintained that the party would win the state assembly elections with a majority and would not require support from other like-minded parties to form the government. Party president Luizinho Faleiro said, however, that he was open to support from other parties as long as the parties or candidates shared the Congress’s ideology.

 Speaking on the sidelines of the second joint meeting with Congress candidates and their election agents, held at Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Panaji, Faleiro said that all candidates and the party leadership were “hopeful of getting around 23 seats.”
 
 Stating that the Congress would prove its detractors wrong, Faleiro said, “They were trying to write-off the Congress. Some said the party would be reduced to just three seats in the Goa assembly. Some of our leaders, too, felt the same earlier. You will know on March 11,” the former chief minister said confidently.
 
 Party sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, pegged the number of winning candidates at much lower and suggested that support from a few independent parties or from like-minded parties would be required if the Congress hoped to form the next state government.
 
 “If somebody wants to support the Congress, they are welcome, provided they believe in our principles and ideology. I am positive that we will win and form the next government,” Faleiro said.
 
 Sounding a cautious note, Congress leader Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar stressed the need for the party to ensure that the flock remains together after their victory celebrations on March 11.
 
 He felt that it would be good if all the winners assemble in the Congress House at 6 pm and this suggestion was immediately accepted by the president of state Congress president Luizinho Faleiro and other leaders.
 
 Supporting this view, some members said this was necessary as some parties may try to poach their members using all their resources at their disposal.
 
 The meeting outlined the procedures to be followed by party workers during the counting process. Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane could not attend the meeting as he is on a foreign tour. Taleigao MLA Jennifer Monserrate, too, is out of station. Margao MLA Digambar Kamat did not attend the meeting as it was his birthday.
 
 
