BENGALURU: At least 10,000   from various districts across the state have been protesting at Freedom Park for over 48 hours now, making it the largest and the longest protest in the city in the recent times. And the women, some have come with their kids, are in no mood to return home anytime soon.

 Women of all age groups were seen sleeping on cardboard box turned into beds on the streets, covering themselves with bed-sheets under the blazing sun.Three days ago, Manjula S, 45, an anganwadi teacher, travelled all the way from her village in Belgaum to Bengaluru. She spent Tuesday night on Seshadri Road along with hundreds others. “My husband doesn't have a job and we have three children. My son is in first year of college and I want him to continue with his studies.How can we manage everything with a mere Rs 5,000?“ she asked.
 
 Hundreds of others like Manjula had similar stories to tell. “Neither the CM nor Umashree are bothered about us. We take care of so many children, their nutrition and health. Why are they reluctant to pay us more?“ asked the protesting women in chorus.
 
 The BBMP installed over 40 portable toilets for them late Tuesday, some of which stopped working the next morning. “The toilets are far away and most are not working, leading to long queues outside those working,“ said Husna.
 
 While the toilets are free of cost, some women said they had to pay to use them. “They are charging Rs 5 for the facility,“ says Ratanamma, a helper from Jayamahal.
 
 “The washrooms are untidy and many aren't working. The permanent ladies washroom in Freedom Park was also locked on Wednesday, forcing us to queue up outside the men's bathroom,“ said Sudha from Mysore.
 
 “While this year's budget has stipulated Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 hike in the salaries of workers (teachers) and assistants (helpers) respectively, we demand Rs 10,000 and Rs 7,000 as wages for teachers and helpers. Other states including Telangana and Kerala have higher wages, why can't we?“ said H S Sunanda, general secretary,  .
 
 “Principal secretary (women & child development) Uma Mahadevan has asked us to tell urge pregnant and lactating mothers to leave the protest site,“ she said. “The corporation has ar ranged a water tanker for us. We are getting curd, fruits, sweets and water from different associations under CITU. A film actress also sent fruits for us. Families and friends of the workers in Bengaluru are helping us with food,“ Sunanda said.
 
 (additional inputs by Neha Jain and Sushmita B)
 
