NEW DELHI: With just two days left for the Class XII   English exam, experts suggest that it is time to shut the guides and focus on  . Teachers and counsellors say that students shouldn’t pick up new topics or subjects so close to the exam date and, instead, go through the   of chapters.

 The focus also needs to be on increasing productivity without harming the body, say nutritionists, adding that skipping sleep will do more harm than good.
 
 “It is important to keep anxiety under check at this stage and picking up new subjects doesn’t help. This is the time for revision,” said Dr Jitender Nagpal, consultant psychiatrist at Moolchand Medicity.
 
 He suggested that parents must maintain a cordial atmosphere in the house. “Parents usually pass anxiety on to the child unknowingly. They shouldn’t interfere in the child’s study and schedule and avoid noisy activities in the house. They shouldn’t build pressure on them by comparing them to siblings, friends and cousins as this affects the mental state of the child,” Nagpal said.
 
 Experts also suggest that parents of children studying late in the night should keep junk food out of reach. “A child can be given sandwiches or nuts. The diet needs to be high in protein and liquids,” said Rekha Sharma, a nutritionist. She cautioned students against consumption of coffee and suggested intake of juices, lassi or milkshakes.
 
 “As children stay indoors for most of the day to study, it is important that they get some form of exercise. At least 30 minutes of brisk walk every morning is a must,” Sharma said.
 
 Nagpal said students must give themselves a break every hour for 10 minutes to help retain what they’ve studied.
 
 Teachers are also important as they can help students maintain level-headedness under pressure. They suggest that students should practice to make sure they complete the exam within the stipulated time. The first 15 minutes should be used to understand the paper and prioritise answering of the questions for optimum use of time.
 
 Giving suggestions for the English exam,   said, “You cannot solve a question as soon as you see it. Use the initial time to read and understand the passage and formulate the answers.”
 
 Another English teacher, Jugnu Singh of Springdales School, Pusa Road, suggested that students highlight their answers. “Underlining the main points in long passages will help the invigilator get to the point faster. A good presentation can help score around 15% extra marks,” she said.
 
 
