NAGPUR: Social inclusion of   by enrolling them in mainstream schools is considered the primary strategy for such children’s proper development. This process was streamlined in the city with the support of   (NMC) and Prayas, a school for children with special needs. Taking a step ahead,   now plans to train local schoolteachers on guiding these  .

 Prayas is organizing a rally on Sunday on World Autism Awareness Day. The rally will begin at 5pm from Sarvodaya Ashram, near Bole petrol pump and end at Children’s Traffic Park, Dharampeth. It will consist of autistic students, accompanied by relatives and friends. A cultural programme is being organized at Children’s Traffic Park, where Dr Shashank Garg, CEO of the software firm ‘Infocepts’, eminent paediatricians Dr Satish Deopujari and Dr Uday Bodhankar and social worker Lilatai Chitale will also be present.
 
 Prayas was started in 2009 by special educator Ritesh Diwe and his wife Kiran Binkar. About 70 students enrolled in the school are autistic. “Our educational programme and therapy are mostly beneficial to such kids who come to us at an early age. There are three of them for whom we began with early intervention, before the age of six. We have observed a lot of improvement in them. At present one is 7 and the other two are 9 years old and all three are ready to enter mainstream school. However, the final decision will be up to their parents,” said Binkar.
 
 She said, “We also have kids who had been attending normal school but because of their hyperactive nature, they had to be pulled out and are attending Prayas. We hope to help them pursue their further education in a regular school once again.”
 
 Under the project, titled Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan’s Inclusive Education for Disabled Programme, NMC has registered about 1,700 specially-abled students in the city, of which 57 are autistic. Project coordinator Abijit Raut said, “The city has around 1,900 schools, and 250 schools cater to special kids along with normal kids. NMC has identified all such schools with a focus to make sure all such special students get in proper synch with normal students.”
 
 NMC has appointed a team of 23 teachers to visit the schools and interact with the 350 special kids, listen to their problems and counsel them on a daily basis.
 
 Raut said, “Apart from this, the union ministry of human resource development is preparing a model to train all schoolteachers in dealing with the special students. We are going to conduct a year-long training for the teachers next year.”
 
 To get the special kids registered with NMC, citizens can contact 9823387502.
 
