NEW DELHI: The acquittal of   in the   could weaken the prosecution's case in two other episodes of "saffron terror" - the February 2007   and May 2007   - where he has been projected as one of the main conspirators. 

 Trials of the   and Mecca Masjid cases are likely to be completed by the end of this year. With the case against Aseemanand in the Ajmer blasts falling through, proving the conspiracy in the connected incidents would be difficult for the prosecution. 
 
 Aseemanand, who hails from West Bengal, has been labelled a key player in radicalising and recruiting for the cause of saffron vengeance against jihadi terrorism by targeting Muslims.
 
 Apart from Aseemanand, there were few common accused in these cases - Sandeep Dange and Ramchandra Kalsangra (both absconding), Lokesh Sharma, Devendra Gupta and the slain Sunil Joshi. Gupta's arrest in Rajasthan in 2007 is understood to have led the police to Aseemanand.
 
 The investigation agencies had claimed that Aseemanand had confessed to being part of a plot to perpetuate 'Hindu terror', a statement he later claimed in court was given "under duress". But earlier he reportedly became emotional, readily making long confessional admissions.
 
 Officials in probe agencies and legal experts said that if he is the main link in three similar cases, and conspiracy could not be proved in Ajmer blast, it may be difficult to establish it in the other two as well. He has already been granted bail in the Samjhauta blast.
 
 When contacted, Aseemanand's lawyer in Samjhauta blast case, Manbir Rathi told Times of India, "NIA linked Samjhauta blast with Ajmer blast. The Jaipur court has ruled that Swami Aseemanand is innocent, which means NIA's theory in Samjhauta blast was also a bundle of lies."
 
 As things stand, most witnesses, including those who recorded their statements before the magistrate, under section 164 of CrPC, have retracted from previous accounts against Aseemanand and others. Most of the cases against Aseemanand are built on confessions and there is little hard evidence. For example, in Mecca and Samjhauta blasts, no other material was recovered other than explosive samples.
 
 In Samjhauta case, about 180 witnesses have recorded their statements in the Panchkula court while some 90 witnesses are yet to do so. In Hyderabad's Mecca Masjid blast too, about 170 witnesses have recorded their statements.
 
 NIA top officials said they have not yet decided whether to challenge Aseemanand's acquittal. Earlier, agencies tried to build a case against him in the Malegaon 2006 and 2008 attacks on the basis of witness statements but he could not be chargesheeted.
 
 
