HYDERABAD: The   on Tuesday sought from   an affidavit on the allegations that the sand mafia in Kurnool district has gone to the extent of laying roads and tracks right through the fields of farmers up to the banks of   in an illegal manner for transporting the excavated sand from the banks of the river. 

 The bench of Acting Chief Justice   and Justice Shameem Akther sought this from the state while hearing a public interest petition filed by farmers of Kodumuru and Krishnagiri mandals in the district who were aggrieved by the large scale and indiscriminate destruction of the river bed which is threatening to hit back the society as an ecological disaster. 
 
 Petitioners' counsel V L Surendra told the court that the district SP along with some of his senior colleagues have physically visited the area and noticed the track that was laid through certain endowment land of the farmers. Wondering what the district administration was doing, the bench sought a response from the government pleaders representing the revenue, mines and home wings. When they stoutly refuted the allegations and raised doubts about the existence of the track, the bench said it would appoint a district judge to probe into the matter. However, following requests from the state counsel, it allowed them a week's time to file an  . 
 
 When the bench sought to know from the state as to what it did in respect of the complaint of Cherukulapadu village (that spoke about the high-tech excavation of sand in their area being done by K E Syam Babu, son of AP deputy chief minister K E Krishna Murthy), the mines wing counsel said that they have ordered a probe by a deputy director. However, the counsel also told the bench that their initial inquiries did not reveal the name of the minister's son. 
 
 "The villagers sent their complaint to the chief minister. His office referred the matter to the Kurnool district collector who in turn referred the matter to a deputy director," the state counsel said. The required seriousness is not visible despite the fact that the complaint was referred by the CMO itself, the bench said. 
 
