Actress   has today become an inevitable part of every prominent film in the Malayalam film industry. 

 She has defied all notions about female leads, and has gone on to create an identity of her own. Asha talks to Kochi Times about how she juggles family, films and dance and more.
 
 
 
 It’s been a learning experience each time. It is in fact their boundless energy and radiance that gets passed on to us. They make you react to their acting and derive good performances out of you. For me, Mammookka and Lalettan are like my gurus. Every aspect of theirs influences me, be it the way they act or their body language.
 
 
 
 Though it was a cameo appearance, people have given a warm reception to my role alongside Lalettan in Munthirivallikal Thalirkkumbol. It was quite different from our kallan and police act in Drishyam. Now, I am acting with him in Major Ravi’s film 1971: Beyond Borders. My film with Mammookka in Syamdhar’s directorial has not been titled yet, and both of us will be seen essaying the role of teachers in it. It is a feel good movie.
 In Viswasapoorvam Mansoor, directed by P T Kunju Muhammad, I play the role of Maliyekkal Fathibi aka Fathima Beevi, a Muslim woman from Thalassery. I play the mother of actor Roshan Basheer. I am eagerly awaiting this one, as there is a lot of scope for performance.
 With regard to  , initially, I was very sceptical about playing Sugathakumari teacher on-screen. When the director of the film asked her who should play her character, she suggested my name, and that is a compliment in itself. Bhagmati, a Telugu project, is also in the pipeline, in which I play the role of IPS officer again.
 
 
 
 No matter how many films I do, people still associate me with my role in Kumkumapoovu. That said, I have not been taking up serials because of practical reasons. My kids and family are of paramount importance to me, and serials demand your constant presence and long-term commitment. I had to dedicate four years of my life to my serial and had to compromise on my time as a mother. That is just not possible now. However, films give me that breathing space to go back to Dubai and be with my family.
 
 
 
 It is all about proritising things. I have been doing it but I can’t say I am perfect at it. I just try my best. I might have lost a few good films offered to me.
 Everything in life is a challenge. I never allow my family to miss me for a long time. (laughs). The moment they start missing me, I ensure that I am back home.
 
 
 When I take up a role, I look only at the script and not at the screen time. Be it Pavada or Munthirivallikal Thalirkkumbol, I have always opted for characters that matter. If the role I am doing is not adding any value to the movie, that would forever make me regret the decision.
 A character need not be bold per se, but it should have a soul in it. For instance, Suma in Anuraga Karikkin Vellam is exactly like my mother Kalamandalam Sumathy.
 
 When I was approached for the role of an IPS officer in Drishyam, I had no idea how it would turn out.
 
 
 
 At home I am like any other mother. I do my own chores, buy vegetables, do gardening, and also simultaneously manage my dance school in Dubai. My daughter is amazed that I still make time for her programmes at school. Her friends consider me as a typical actress but when they come home, they realise that I am just another person. The fact that I am an actress doesn’t change who I am, and it is just like being a dancer or a doctor. However, I take my role as a dance teacher very seriously.
 
 
 
  I have never planned anything in life, and Kumkumapoovu was the turning point in life. I am grateful for all the love people have showered on me. 
 I have been getting a few female-oriented characters in films, and hopefully, I will also be doing a few movies that promote social causes. 
 
