HYDERABAD: The   on Tuesday sought to know from the state government the source of its power to accord to its advisors and representatives the status of cabinet minister. The court admitted a public interest petition that challenged the action of the Telangana government in what it described as indiscriminate conferment of cabinet minister rank on advisors, special representatives, and chairpersons of various  .

 The bench comprising acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Shameem Akhter issued a notice to the state while hearing a PIL filed by TDP legislator A Revanth Reddy and sought a counter from it. The bench also issued notices to all the advisors and representatives who are enjoying the status of cabinet minister.
 
 Responding to the query of the bench, state advocate general   said that there is no law empowering any state to accord such status on people who are not actually cabinet ministers. “It is only a practice,“ he said. Reacting to this, the bench said even conventions followed by authorities have a history of their own and sought to know if the state followed the same.The AG further added that some of the principal secretaries too were accorded cabinet minister status.The acting CJ sought to know from the state the details of perks, facilities and privileges that go with the status of a cabinet minister. He also raised a doubt whether the ministers like cabinet ministers, ministers of state, deputy ministers, ministers with independent charge, etc., also get similar facilities.
 
 The petitioner questioned the action of the government in conferring the cabinet rank on advisors to the government and other representatives who include G Vivekananda, R Vidyasagar Rao, A K Goel, A Ramakrishna, B V Papa Rao, K V Ramanachary , G R Reddy , Devula pally Prabhakar Rao, Pervaram Ramulu, Somarapu Satyanarayana, Singireddy Niranjan, Pidamarthi Ravi, Prasanth Reddy , Koppula Eshwar, K M Sahni, Ramachandrudu Tejavath and S Venugopalachary .
 
 The petitioner contended that the ceiling imposed as per Article 164 (1A) of the Constitution, the state cannot appoint more than 15 per cent of Assembly members in the rank of cabinet ministers.
 
