BENGALURU: The second lake inspection by citizen activists under the umbrella of United Bengaluru saw freedom fighter H S Doreswamy file a   against dumping of garbage and encroachments of lakes around Hennur. 

 The activists visited three lakes in Horamavu, northeast Bengaluru — Horamavu-Agara, Jayantinagar and Chellekere — and found they had been encroached upon, which is a violation of the National Green Tribunal ( ) order. 
 
 Doreswamy urged police to initiate stringent action and fine the encroachers Rs five lakh, as per the NGT order. “You must make sure no debris is dumped in and around the lakes. All the promises we have heard till now have remained only on paper. The debris should be cleared in a month, else we will protest,” he told police.
 
 Srinivas T, sub-inspector, Hennur police station, assured citizens of action. “We will monitor the lakes and urge BBMP to put up barricades,” he said. Cops also instructed the activists to inform them of illegal activities.
 
 “We have sent several notices to BBMP regarding this, but the revival work is being delayed. The government has sanctioned Rs 12 crore, of which only Rs 6 crore has reached us. We have called for tenders, and the cleaning and desilitng will take a while,” said   V, corporator of Horamavu ward. 
 
 Crowdfunding to fence  
 
 Swarit Agarwal and about 20 techies living around Horamavu have not just taken up the work of cleaning Horamavu-Agara Lake but even plan to mobilize funds through crowdsourcing to fence it. 
 
 “We spend our own money to clean the lake every week. Most of the time, BBMP officials are not reachable,” said Swarit. He filed the police complaint on Saturday with United Bengaluru’s help. “As there is no fence around the lake, we are trying to build one through crowdfunding,” he added. Apart from dumping of debris, the lake is plagues by problems like encroachment and inflow of sewage.
 
 
 
 Locals have also made attempts to conserve Jayantinagar Lake. “We have been striving to make this lake public-friendly; there’s a space for people to jog/walk. We have also curbed a lot of anti-social activities which used to take place here,” said VP Krishna, a citizen volunteer.
 
 
