Pune: City-based taxi service provider Wings Travels will move out of the radio taxi segment and focus on the rent-a-cab segment in India and abroad. 

 The radio taxi segment has seen some relentless competition in the recent past with Ola and Uber resorting to steep discounts to capture market share.
 
 “We have radio cab and taxi services. Two major players are already present here who are fighting for survival. So we want to tell everyone, we are not in the radio taxi space at all. So, we are more into the car rental domain, where we have proper licensing. We want to be number 1 in the car rental domain,” said Arun Kharat, founder director, Wings Travels.
 
 Last year, Wings acquired Mumbai-based Book My Cab to venture into the radio taxi segment.
 
 Kharat said Wings is now able to get about 800 daily bookings from customers for intracity travel in Pune. This has come down from a high of 4,000 that the company enjoyed until about a year ago.
 
 “Because of subsidies from other players, intracity rides have come down for us,” said Kharat.
 
 The company will continue to focus on staff transportation business where it enjoys a considerable amount of traction. It has over 4,000   deployed with various companies across the country.
 
 Wings, which is present in eight cities of the country, aims to expand its presence to 47 other cities where Kharat says there are “functional airports”.
 
 The company is targeting having about a 1,000 cabs in metro cities and about 200-300 cabs in the non-metro cities. Kharat said 98% of the company’s 5,000 drivers are on a ‘malak-chalak’ scheme all are contracted to work with Wings on a retainer model. Wings does not work on a model of a battery of cabs owned by a single individual and driven by others.
 
 “At some point this deep discounting will go. How long can they bleed themselves? In the meantime, we are working on different business models,” according to Kharat.
 
 Wings is looking at intracity and also intercity travel in select locations. As a trial run, it has started Pune-Mumbai service which is getting a booking of over a 100 cabs every day. This will be scaled up to other locations from March.
 
 The company has also tied up with 175 taxi providers in Thailand to offer special tourism packages in the country. By the end of the year, Wings hopes to get into two more countries to offer tourism related services.
 
 “The company gives technology, on which the company invested about Rs 2 crore last year, to the vehicles owners. Riding on this, they can increase their business by 30-40%,” Kharat claimed. According to him, the firm makes a ‘clear margin’ of 20%, which is also shared with the franchises, in case of tie-ups.
 
 
