PUNE: Riding a two-wheeler on some   in the city is a traumatic experience because the speed breakers are not laid according to the   (IRC) guidelines.

 Since December 3, six high speed breakers have been built on NIBM-Mohammadwadi Roads in Kondhwa without any markings. Unaware of these structures, four motorcycle riding youths and two car drivers on Mohammadwadi Road and eight women on   Road met with   but escaped with just injuries. 
 
 When local residents complained, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) flattened two of them. Five speed breakers, including two outside Pavan Parmar opposite Rupee Cooperative Bank on Kondhwa Road and three between Jyoti Chowk and the NIBM post office were flattened for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the National Institute of Business Management in 2015. None has been restored even after 22 months.
 
 After the issue had rocked the Wanowrie and Kondhwa ward office mohalla committee meeting on November 24, the civic body restored a huge speed breaker outside Bramha Majestic Society and Kubera Colony on NIBM Road and outside Everjoy Apartments and Clover Highland near Dorabjee Mall on Mohammadwadi Road.
 
 Five more speed breakers were laid between NIBM and Sun Shree apartments near Cloud 9 on NIBM Annexe Road. 
 
 The speed breakers are meant to control speeding vehicles, but they are uncommonly high at two places. Local residents have alleged that since the construction of speed breakers were faulty it was causing accidents.
 
 Onion hawker Madhav Pawar said, “On the night of December 6, a car travelling in full speed from Mohammadwadi jumped over the speed breaker. It flew into the air and bumped two or three times and hit an electric pole on the forest land. The pole was bent, but the driver escaped with minor injuries. The next night, the driver of another car coming from the same place failed to notice the speed breaker because it was not painted. The car bumped and flew into air. The driver tried to gain control over the vehicle and dashed against an iron mesh on the forest land and sustained minor injuries.” Accidents mostly take place at night because people speed with scant regard to traffic discipline, Pawar added. 
 
 IT professional Prashant Malkapurkar said he was riding on a scooter from Kharadi to Mohammadwadi and passed via NIBM Chowk to reach Nyati Estate on December 7 around 11.30pm. “I hit the speed breaker and my vehicle skidded and I fell on the road. I had injuries on my face, head and fractured my jaw. I was unconscious and when I opened my eyes, I found myself in a private hospital.”
 
 There must be safety measures like installing rumblers and reflectors and painting speed breakers cautioning people that a speed breaker lies ahead. “I use the road every day, but did not know that the speed breaker had been built overnight,” Malkapurkar added. 
 
 Another injured victim Ronal Pillay, a business development executive in Dubai, was riding pillion with Malkapurkar. “My friend was driving at a normal speed, but we did not see the speed breaker. Our vehicle flew into the air and we fell off the vehicle and were injured. Malkapurkar became unconscious and my left hand was severely paining. My two bones had fractures and I was operated the next day,” Pillay added. 
 
 “People in search of working ATMs were on the road and a car driver was kind enough to admit us to a private hospital. Otherwise it was not possible to get help so late in the night. The PMC flattened the speed breakers after a series of mishaps,” Pillay said.
 
 Former corporator Tanaji Lonkar said three days after high two speed breakers were laid, around eight women had sustained minor injuries after their vehicles skidded on NIBM Road, while a series of serious accidents had taken place on Mohammadwadi Road. 
 
 The mishaps occurred because the PMC had failed to display sign boards warning vehicles. No reflectors were installed and speed breakers were not painted. After we took up the issue with PMC on behalf of the residents, the speed breakers were flattened.
 
 Businessman Saifee Danawala demanded that NIBM and Mohammadwadi roads be widened and dividers installed for traffic discipline. 
 
 “Even though speed breakers were flattened, trucks and tankers continue to ply at high speed. The problems relating to traffic and speed limit can be curbed if a policeman is deployed during peak hours and speed breakers are laid as per the IRC norms,” Danawala said, adding that potholes on the road which were causing accidents should be filled up at the earliest.
 
 Civil engineer Milind Kulkarni said, “Instead of constructing speed breaker in a scientific manner, the PMC laid a bump on Mohammadwadi Road which damaged the belly of the cars.” 
 
 Matin Shaikh of Bramha Majestic said, “Our society has been demanding speed breakers for controlling speed limit on NIBM Road after it was removed in 2015. The civic body did so but they are very high, but it was flattened because of the accidents. We have requested local corporator Nanda Lonkar to install a new one adhering to the norms.”
 
 
