NOIDA/GREATER NOIDA: While commuters welcome the city   service, which was launched on December 14, 2016, after a after a three-year delay, the relatively high fares are pinching their pockets. That partially explains why the service has been both a success and a failure so far. 

 The large, state-of-the-art, comfortable buses run on five routes so far, but only one of the routes is profit-making for the NMRC.
 
 While the route covering the   to the Noida Authority office in Sector 6, sectors 56D, 54, Spice Mall and back to the station (M1+) ferries fewer than 15 passengers in a day, the Botanical Garden-Greater Noida route via   (103B+) is the most popular one among students and office goers. It is the most profitable too, with a collection of about Rs 12,000 every day.
 
 However, many commuters find the maximum fare of Rs 50 very high when compared to UP Roadways buses.
 
 Devendra Kumar, who works in a company in Knowledge Park III, said that it was a good alternative to public transport.“I find the city bus more comfortable. However, it costs me double the UP Roadways fare. I pay Rs 50 to travel to Alpha 1,  , while the other bus costs me Rs 25,” said Devendra Kumar, who works with a company in Knowledge Park III.
 
 While some passengers don’t mind the high cost of commuting in the bus, laced with modern facilities like panic buttons near every seat, GPS device and airconditioner, daily commuters like students and office goers believe the fare should be reduced.
 
 Vishnu Dutt, who boarded 103B+ around 2.30pm near the Advant building at a friend’s instance, told TOI, “I am disappointed with the high fare,” Dutt said.
 
 However, there are passengers who are impressed with the speed and frequency of the bus. Shweta Lakshmi, a student of MA (psychology) at Amity University, said she preferred the city bus on her route from Amity University to Alpha 1. “It is a fast and smooth bus but the fare should be cut,” Lakshmi said.
 
 Many passengers complained that some conductors were under-charging them and not issuing tickets.
 
 S K Rana, a Greater Noida-based businessman, said that he was offered a ride for Rs 25 on the (103B-) bus from Pari Chowk to Botanical Garden. “The bus driver offered to charge Rs. 25, which is Rs 20 less than the fare, with no ticket. When I insisted on one, he gave me the ticket,” he said.
 
 When asked, a conductor on the route admitted to having under-charged. “We have been asked to accommodate people. Students do not want to pay so much, so we allow them to pay less and travel,” he said.
 
 Sandeep Raizada, officer on special duty, NMRC, said that three conductors on the route have been suspended when the matter came to light. “Drivers and conductors have been provided by a private agency. Three of them found charging less without issuing a ticket on route no 103B- have been suspended,” Raizada said.
 
 When specifically asked about the fares, he said since each bus costs Rs 1 crore, it would be difficult to reduce the fare.
 
 As of now, 38 buses are plying on five routes, three for intra-Noida city and two for Noida-Greater Noida connectivity.
 
 
