AURANGABAD: Women and child development minister Pankaja Munde on Saturday said the   (BJP) had no time to rue over the   with   for the upcoming civic polls - scheduled for February 21. 

 Pankaja said the BJP has experience of going alone for elections as they did in the 2014 assembly and Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation (KDMC) elections.
 
 Pankaja - daughter of late BJP leader Gopinath Munde who once was considered instrumental in holding ties between the saffron parties - said, "Pain is being experienced by both parties after the breakup. Still, we will contest civic body polls with our full strength and would draw more success."
 
 While speaking with reporters on the sidelines of her campaigning for Marathwada teachers' constituency polls on Saturday, Pankaja said it would be better to move on when any decision has been taken.
 
 Earlier, addressing a rally of teachers in support of Satish Patki - the BJP sponsored candidate for February 3 Marathwada Teachers constituency polls - Pankaja said the BJP government in the state has been giving top priority for resolving issues faced by the teachers.
 
 "Teachers shape one generation after another and therefore their problems should be resolved on priority basis considering the important role they have been playing in our society," she said, accusing the previous Congress-NCP government for leaving the teaching community in the lurch.
 
 She said the problems related to transfer of Zilla Parishad teachers was one of the issues the state government was addressing with immediate effect. "Maharashtra will soon have state-level roaster of teachers to ensure smooth transfers. The teachers facing health-related issues would be given priority during transfers besides the transfers that would ensure a teaching couple does not get separated due to their duties," she said.
 
 Listing down some of the achievements of the state government, the minister said, "The government is all set to release 20% aid for unaided schools that were long neglected by previous government. Due to untiring efforts, the ZP schools are gradually regaining their glory by attracting more and more students."
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Patki, who once was considered as close aide of late BJP leader Pramod Mahajan and Gopinath Munde, said he would devote himself for the cause of teachers alone if elected as MLC.
 
 Host of BJP leaders including BJP spokesperson   and city mayor Bhagwan Ghadamode were also present for campaigning.
 
 
