LUCKNOW: Switching side finally paid off for   on Sunday. In fact, of the 10 BSP rebels who got elected on BJP ticket this time, six managed to get the ministerial berth in the  . Also making the cut was former UP Congress chief Rita Bahuguna  , who switched over to the saffron camp just before the polls and got elected from Lucknow Cantoment.

 To begin with, the BJP inducted former BSP leader Swami Prasad  , who actually led a rebellion in the Mayawati's camp and paved way for as many as 12 MLAs switching side to BJP. Maurya, who won from his traditional Padrauna seat was the last minute entry in the cabinet. His staff confirmed to TOI that the invitation was not received till few hours before oath was to be administered.
 
 So was the case with Dara Singh Chauhan, who switched over to BJP after being expelled from the party by Mayawati last year. Chauhan, who is of Nonia caste from the Most Backward Class (MBC) community, represented Ghosi Lok Sabha constituency and was also BSP leader in Parliament. He joined BJP and contested from Madhuban assembly seat in Mau and won.
 
 Former Brahmin face of BSP and party RS MP Brijesh   too got his share. Pathak, who turned rebel against Mayawati just before assembly elections, contested from Lucknow central and won against SP's Ravidas Mehrotra. He has been accommodated in the Yogi cabinet.
 
 Likewise, Dharam Singh Saini and Nand Gopal Nandi too happened to be ministers in previous Mayawati government of 2007. Saini, who got re-elected in 2012, however revolted against the BSP barely two months before the UP assembly elections 2017 and joined the BJP. An influential leader in the west UP, Saini, also an MBC, contested from Nakur seat in Saharanpur and won, defeating Congress’s formidable candidate Imran Masood by just 4,000 votes. He has been allotted minister of state (independent charge). 
 
 Similarly, Nandi, a former minister in the previous Mayawati government, got a cabinet berth in the BJP government. Representing Allahabad South assembly constituency, Nandi was with BSP till he lost the seat in 2012. He later switched over to Congress and contested Lok Sabha elections from Allahabad seat which he lost. Nandi who joined the BJP barely a month before UP assembly elections contested from Allahabad south and won. Another former BSP leader, Laxmi Narayan Chaudhary who won from Chhata assembly seat on BJP ticket got a cabinet berth. Chaudhary, who lost the seat in 2012 while contesting on BSP ticket had switched over to BJP last year itself.
 
 BJP's biggest catch from Congress camp, Rita Bahuguna Joshi, also managed to get a cabinet seat in the Yogi cabinet. Joshi, who defeated SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav's chhoti Bahu Aparna, had joined the BJP in October last year while questioning leadership of Congress scion Rahul Gandhi.
 
 
