PATNA: The two-day workshop on ‘Advances in physics: From concepts to applications’, organised by the physics department of Indian Institute of Technology-Patna, was inaugurated by Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda University’s faculty member P K Mukherjee and IIT-Patna’s acting director Dr Sanjoy Kumar Parida on Thursday. On the inaugural day, the workshop was attended by 40 selected students from different IITs and universities.

 Mukherjee talked about advancement in atomic and molecular structure and his insightful oration took the audience through the evolution of atomic and molecular structural data evaluation and interpretation. The workshop was coordinated by Dr Jobin Jose, faculty adviser of Physics Society of IIT-Patna. The head of the department, Dr Utpal Roy, and other faculty members were also present. 
 
 Awareness programme at MMC: Magadh Mahila College organised an awareness programme on diabetes on the college campus on Thursday. The chief guest of the event was Dr Diwakar Tejaswi and the guest of honour was Dr Brinda Singh. College principal Dr Dharmsheela Prasad welcomed the guests and the college choir presented a welcome song. Around 200 students of BCA and BBA attended the programme. Dr Tejaswi talked about the importance of early screening of diabetes to effectively manage all types of diabetes and avoid complications.
 
  teachers’ protest: Hundreds of Magadh University (MU) teachers will take part in a ‘dharna’ at the Jantar Mantar in New Delhi on July 24 to protest delay in announcement of the 7th pay scales to university and college teachers. Magadh University Teachers’ Association (MUTA) president A K Singh Thakur said the teachers will stage dharna at the call of All India Federation of University and College Teachers (AIFUCTO) to exert pressure on the Centre to announce the 7th pay scales at the earliest to university and college teachers and fulfil other long pending demands of the teachers. Thakur said the Centre has also been urged to maintain uniformity in higher education at the country level. 
 
 
