PUNE: The NCP is confident that Thursday's election results will see the party returning to power in both the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations. The BJP too strongly fancies its own chances of securing a majority , even saying it won't need the support of its es tranged alliance partner, the  . However, hectic backdoor discussions have already begun over the new political combinations that can emerge if no party gets a clear mandate.

 In the last two municipal elections, the NCP had emerged as the single largest party in Pune and secured a clear majority in Pimpri Chinchwad. This time, the NCP and the   have a pre-poll alliance for a majority of seats in Pune but have parted ways in Pimpri Chinchwad. Former Pimpri Chinchwad mayor Yogesh Behl is confident of a NCP hat-trick in the twin township while the party's Pune chief   spoke of a victory in both corporations.
 
 Such is the BJP's conviction of making it on its own that its Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Kakade told mediapersons that he would quit politics if the party did not get a “full majority“ in Pune. City BJP president   said, “Opponents stooped low to target the party and the chief minister during campaigning. However, voters have shown full faith in the state and central leadership of the BJP . We will emerge victorious.“ Interestingly, senior BJP leaders and workers are insisting that the party should not join hands with the Shiv Sena to rule the corporations as it would diminish the party's credibility .Leaders of both parties were at each other's throats during the heated election campaigning.
 
 A senior BJP leader, however, admitted that the two parties may seek each other's help in different municipal corporations.“Any decision about a post-poll alliance here will hinge on the outcome of the BMC elections. If the Sena needs the BJP's help in Mumbai, the latter can ask for help in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad,“ he said.
 
 But Pimpri Chinchwad BJP chief Laxman Jagtap was vehement that his party would not require assistance from anyone else. “We will get a majority on our own,“ he said.
 
 The Shiv Sena and the MNS appear to have reconciled themselves to playing the role of kingmaker in both civic bodies should the results throw a fractured mandate. Sena's Pune chief Vinayak Nimhan said, “We will play the role of kingmaker and decide who will be the next mayor of Pune.“ However, he avoided making any further statement, saying that the state leadership will take a call on any possible alliance.
 
 The Congress, meanwhile, is averse to joining hands with the saffron parties. “In no event will our party go with the BJP or Shiv Sena,“ former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan said.
 
 A top NCP source said party leaders, including  , feel that the Sena must be supported wherever they need help. This is because they fear that any solo dominance by the BJP in the state will leave no space for the opposition. However, the NCP is keen that the Sena withdraws support to the state government.
 
