A wall painting and   competition was organized in the city with an objective to promote skill education among youngsters. The three-day event conducted by The Times Of India and UKSDM (Uttarakhand Skill Development Mission) on World Youth Skills Day gave an opportunity to city youngsters to convert the walls of UKSDM office into creative and meaningful works of art.

  A CREATIVE APPROACH TOWARDS SKILL DEVELOPMENT
 
  Several students from Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) and polytechnic colleges of Dehradun participated in the drawing competition. “My painting was all about empowering women with different skills across rural areas,” said Riya Sharma, one of the participants.
 
  WALLS TURNED INTO ARTWORKS 
 
 Graffiti artist Anmol Kaushik and members of a city-based NGO JOY(Just Open Yourself) joined the students in the wall-painting activity. Muskan Ansari, a student of class XII at Phool Chand Nari Shilp Mandir Girls Inter College said, "This is the first time we tried our hands at wall painting. Being from a government school, we were not sure if we could compete with other students from private schools. Our understanding of colours helped us secure first position in the competition."
  
  Creatively painted walls at the event (Taresh Dutta/ BCCL)
 
 ‘WE ARE TRYING TO PROMOTE THE CONCEPT OF BEING MULTI-SKILLED’
 
  The event concluded with an award ceremony, where prizes were distributed by  , state minister of forest and wildlife along with Dr Pankaj Kumar Pandey, president, UKSDM. Those who made the 12 best paintings were awarded at the event. “As a youngster, I was fortunate to have developed multiple skills and not rely on just basic education. Being a politician, there is no job security in my profession. However, nobody can take away the skills that I learnt,” said Rawat. He added, "Competitions like these encourage youngsters to showcase their talent. It is great to see so many of them taking a keen interest in sketching and drawing."
 
  Dr Pankaj Kumar Pandey said, "We are trying to promote the concept of being multi-skilled. We teach different skills to young students, free of cost. This event provided a great exposure to these children. Nothing can be more satisfying than seeing youngsters learn new skills and putting them to a good cause."
 
  
  Students participating in the art competition (Taresh Dutta/ BCCL) 
 
 
 -- Akshita.Vohra@timesgroup.com
 
 
