Nagpur: The   has ordered probe into allegations of beating by kingpin in electrocution of tigress and two sambars Khapa on January 13.

 As reported by TOI, main accused Vinayak Savvalakhe had surrendered before Khapa forest officials on Tuesday. He was produced before the Saoner court on Wednesday where he charged the forest officials with beating him while in custody. Based on Savvalakhe’s allegations, the court directed a medical examination based on which an inquiry has been ordered in the matter.
 
 In another development, forest custody remand (FCR) of second accused  , who surrendered on Monday and confessed to the crime, was extended till Friday. In Savvalakhe’s case, forest department sources said the accused was not tutored and he made allegations to avoid FCR. He has been sent to magisterial custody remand (MCR) till February 21.
 
 Forest officials said department’s special counsel Kartik Shukul and law officer Kavita Bhongde tried to make their point in the court by arguing that two medical examination reports of the accused before sending him to police custody make no reference about any injury nor there was any complaint. Shukul also argued that the accused did not make the complaint before the two doctors who had examined him. He further argued the medical report ordered by the court mentioned the injuries as minor and could have been caused prior to the arrest.
 
 However, when Savvalakhe was produced in the court on Wednesday he told the judge he was beaten in custody on chest, and left arm. As per procedure the court immediately ordered medical examination, which showed minor injuries with a blunt object in three places.
 
 The forest department has decided to challenge the Saoner court’s order stating that during 24 hours he was not in department’s custody for over 12 hours. Besides, two medical reports make no mention of any injuries.
 
 TOI has reported that after the incident in the farm taken on lease by Savvalakhe, he was absconding and took shelter with BJP leader Ashok Dhote. Dhote reportedly got him to surrender after anticipatory bail application of both Savvalakhe and Boriwar was rejected. Even in the court, there was a large crowd present to support Savvalakhe. Considering gravity of the matter, the forest department decided to engage special counsel Shukul. 
 
 
