Tawang: When the Dalai Lama stepped into the Urgelling monastery here on Sunday, it was a homecoming of sorts. As the birthplace of the 6th Dalai Lama played host to the 14th ‘incarnation’ of the leader, hundreds of devotees turned up at the grounds of the 14th-century monastery to pay their respects to the ‘living God’.

 “You can say this is a homecoming for His Holiness to his birthplace,” an official of the Dalai Lama’s office told TOI, adding, “He once dreamt of the 6th Dalai Lama.”
 
 The institution of the Dalai Lama is believed to be a continuing one, passed on from one incarnation to the next. The Dalai Lama is considered a “living God” and is the spiritual leader of the Tibetan Buddhists. The first Dalai Lama, Gedun Drupa, lived during the 15th century. The Gaden Phodrang Labrang (the Dalai Lama’s office) was instituted when Gedun Gyatso was recognized as a reincarnation of the first Dalai Lama. The third Dalai Lama, Sonam Gyatso, was given the title of the Dalai Lama. In 1642, the fifth Dalai Lama Ngawang Lobsang Gyatso established the Gadren Phodrang government, becoming the political and spiritual head of  , consolidating the power that would guide Tibetans for centuries to come.
 
 “He is one soul who keeps being reborn. We believe in rebirth, but I have heard of only two people, both commoners, who have taken rebirth in  ,” said Tenzin Chouben, a youth from the Urgelling village.
 
 The 6th Dalai Lama, Tsangyang Gyatso, was born here in 1682 and was anointed as the Dalai Lama in 1697 at the age of 14. The 6th Dalai Lama was known for his unconventional choices – preferring a life which wasn’t as restrictive, leaving monastic study. He was a great poet and lived in the Potala Palace in Lhasa. He died in 1706 while he was on his way to China.
 
 On Sunday, among the hundreds who jostled to get a closer darshan of their god were two elderly villagers Kham Dorjee and Tonje Dorjee. “He is the God who has returned home more than 300 years on. Why else would we come here?” they said.
 
 Mintu Norbu, a young graduate from the village, was satisfied with the darshan. “I had a very close darshan. I feel blessed. He is our God, a living God. We have his photograph next to Mahatma Buddha and pray to him along with Mahatma Buddha every day,” he said.
 
 The faith of the followers remains unshaken. However, within the halls of the Urgelling monastery, few are willing to speak about the next incarnation.
 
 “The reincarnation of the Dalai Lama in the present situation is no longer a religious issue but more of a political one due to China’s interference. We don’t want to make any comments on this,” a lama said on condition of anonymity. 
 
 The sentiment is echoed in the Dalai Lama’s website, which quotes the Tibetan leader. “It is particularly inappropriate for Chinese communists, who explicitly reject even the idea of past and future lives to meddle in the system of reincarnation and especially the reincarnations of the Dalai Lamas and Panchen Lamas,” it says.
 
 Calling the “brazen meddling” contradictory to China’s own political ideology, the Dalai Lama says, “Should this situation continue in the future, it will be impossible for Tibetans and those who follow the Tibetan Buddhist tradition to acknowledge or accept it.”
 
 On Saturday, the Dalai Lama had said he might convene a meeting with the high lamas this year on the matter of his successor. “If it is decided that the reincarnation of the Dalai Lama should continue and there is a need for the Fifteenth Dalai Lama to be recognized, responsibility for doing so will primarily rest on the concerned officers of the Dalai Lama’s Gaden Phodrang Trust,” he stated in his website.
 
 
