VARANASI: Naxal-prone   district has set a World Record on Wednesday by making a rangoli spread over an area of 39,125 square metres using around 1,20,000 kilos of colour. A total of 3,500 students and teachers from 50 schools performed the feat in 50 minutes to mark the National Voters Day on January 25. The previous World Record in this category was a rangoli of 24,000 square metre. Rishi Nath, a representative of the Guiness Book, remained present while the feat was performed and announced that a World Record had been set.

 Planned by the Mirzapur distrct administration, led by DM Kanchan Verma, the attempt was to educate the electorate to exercise their franchise in the impoending UP assembly polls. The administration used the Government polytechnic institute grounds and engaged schoolchildren, teachers, district administration officials and Mirzapur’s civil society. The previous record of the   pattern created in 24,835.62 sq mt area was made by the   on 2 April, 2016, claimed district magistrate Kanchan Verma.
 
 With the theme - ‘No Voter Left Behind’ the rangoli was designed to encourage people with disabilities and female voters to come out and participate in huge numbers, and bridge the gender gap in voting percentage, said Verma further adding that the event was held under the Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) to motivate, educate, facilitate and encourage voters to come out in huge numbers and participate in elections.
 
 Mirzapur is going to poll on March 8. “We have planned a series of activities till the date of polling to ensure that we create awareness among citizens about voting and fulfilling their duty towards the country,” she said further adding that all the colleges conducted several events like seminars, debates, rallies, poster drawing competitions and slogan writing competitions to mark the day. A rock show was also organised on the occasion to engage young voters. Besides, an attempt was also made for   for longest row of boats by forming a row of 160 boats in the Ganga with the help of fishermen community. Each boat used for forming the row was a conventional fishing boat of about 7 meters length. Each boat had a banner appealing voters of the city to go out and vote.
 
 Mirzapur is one of the three districts of the state, which is categorized Naxalite-prone. To build confidence among the villagers of 107 villages, the district police undertook volleyball matches at 70 villages with 1,500 players from all the 107 villages, as a measure to involve the youth and keep them in the mainstream. Mirzapur SP Kalanidhi Naithani said the police have been engaging the youth of these villages through volleyball for the past two months, and it had yielded a very encouraging results. “We hope to motivate them to come out in huge numbers on polling day to vote,” he said.
 
