Vadodara: Schisms already seem to be appearing in the proposed federation of the unions of teaching and non-teaching employees of the M S University (MSU) – Federation of All MSU Employees’ Organisations. The issue of ouster of syndicate member Jigar Inamdar from the post of the director of the Institute of Leadership does not seem to have gone down well with three of the unions.

 The two unions of teachers – Baroda University Teachers Association (BUTA) and Maharaja Sayajirao Vishvadiyalaya Shaikshik Sangh (MSVSS) – and the Baroda University Staff Association (BUSA) of non-teaching employees seem to have stuck together even as the support of other unions has come under scrutiny. Staff Union of Non-teaching (SUN), Backward Classes and Baxi Panch Employees Union (BCBPEU) as well as Mazdoor Sabha seem to have distanced themselves from the federation for now.
 
 BCBPEU president Thakore Solanki said that they were told that the federation would take up issues of employees of the university, but it seemed that the federation was taking up issues that would only sully the image of the university. “We will meet the vice chancellor independently and raise our demands,” said Solanki.
 
 SUN general secretary Anil Gajjar said that the union was not supporting any agenda that had its roots in settling scores on the campus. “We are not concerned with the infighting amongst some persons. There are several crucial issues concerning non-teaching staff and nobody seems to be bothered about them,” he said. He added that nobody from the union had signed the memorandum that was submitted on Tuesday.
 
 The ouster of Inamdar is being sought on the grounds that he is not a teacher or a regular employee of the university. At the other end MSU has clarified that Inamdar was envisaged the institute brought it before the MSU syndicate. The syndicate too had passed the proposal and even cleared Inamdar’s appointment as the director. The MSU has claimed that there were no set rules stating that only a teacher could be made the director.
 
 A memorandum was submitted by the federation on Tuesday. It claimed that representatives of all unions except SUN had signed the memorandum. It was also stated that the consent of SUN president was sought over phone as he was not in the city.
 
 
