MUMBAI: `Get a digital weighing machine free for an order of 100' or a `five-gram gold coin for orders of 150' may sound like a pitch for a shopping festival, but it's actually the details of a flyer being distributed at an ongoing medical conference in Bengaluru. The commodity being incentivized is vaccines meant for children.

  The   (MCI) prohibits pharmaceutical companies from offering incentives and freebies to doctors. But the flyer (of which TOI has a digital copy) offering a `Sankranti bonanza' was distributed at the annual conference of paediatricians. “It mentions that doctors ordering 100TCV (vaccine against typhoid) plus 100ROTA (vaccine against rota virus) can choose between a `digital baby weighing machine' or `Littmann stethoscope Class III' as free gifts,“ said a doctor attending the 54th PEDICON conference. For a free gold coin, doctors have to order 150 each of both vaccines.
 
 While the flyer doesn't mention the name of a pharmaceutical company , the doctor who sent an image to TOI said it was present only at one pharmaceutical company's booth. When contacted, PEDICON's chief organizer, Dr B P Karunakara, from the paediatrics department of M S Ramaiah Hospital, Bengaluru, denied that doctors were offered any incentives.“There are never any incentives for vaccines. If someone buys vaccines in bulk, they may get a reduction in the overall price,“ he said. “I have been a paediatrician for 18 years and, believe me, there is no such thing as an incentive offered to doctors.“
 
  A similar incident occurred at PEDICON 2016 as well, but then the flyer had the logo of the Hyderabad-based company  . The old flyer offered doctors a pearl set for placing orders of 50 vaccines each of typhoid and rota and an iPhone 5s for orders of 200 vaccines each. The company's national marketing head,   , said the flyers were “pure mischief“. “We fear the flyers were made and distributed by multinationals who are worried about a company's growth. We have tried for a year to locate the culprits, but failed,“ he said. The company sells typhoid vaccine at Rs 70 and the rota vaccine at Rs 700. “We have driven out multinational players and they are clearly retaliating. Our company doesn't need to pursue such unethical practices,“ he said.
 
 
