HOWRAH:   and train passengers to and from   can look forward to a monsoon without   this year.   (HMC) has finally fixed a nearly 10-year-old problem — 20m of a 2,000m   Maidan-Ichhapur pipeline left incomplete by   (HIT) during the Left rule. 

 Howrah residents suffered from severe waterlogging every monsoon since this crucial gap remained undetected ever since HIT undertook the pipeline laying project back in 2008. Residents apart, waterlogging also forced the railways to lower train speed from Tikiapara to Howrah station. 
 
 The then HIT board laid the pipeline from Howrah Maidan to Icchapur to flush out rainwater in central Howrah through the outlet in Drainage Canal Road that leads into the Hooghly. HIT divided the 2,000m pipeline project among two agencies and into three parts. Two of these were 900m stretches. 
 
 The first 900m stretch covered Ichhapur to Bantra police station and the second was from Howrah Maidan to Madhusudan Pal Chowdhury School on Belilious Road. The contracts for both were awarded to Panchdeep Constructions by the then HIT board. 
 
 The contract for the remaining 200m stretch — from Bantra police station to Madhusudan Pal Chowdhury School — was awarded to a firm that does not exist any more.
 
 A senior HMC engineer said, “This other firm laid 180m of the pipeline but got paid for the full work despite not completing it. This 20m incomplete stretch proved disastrous, rendering the entire pipel-ine ineffective.” 
 
 Howrah mayor Rathin Chakraborty said, “Residents of central Howrah suffered due to waterlogging every monsoon all these years. We recently detected this incomplete stretch during an inspection and decided to fix the problem. We awarded the Rs 45-lakh contract to Panchdeep Constructions, who have finished the work.”
 
 Former Howrah mayor Mamata Jaiswal of CPM admitted, “We had awarded the contract for the 200m stretch to a real estate firm. There were obviously some errors made in project execution and also during inspection drives, leaving the incomplete part undetected.”
 
 An Eastern Railway spokesman said, “We thank the Howrah mayor for completion of this necessary work. Every monsoon was troublesome for us. We had to lower the speed of trains to 15km per hour as the tracks were waterlogged. Last year, we even had to reschedule 15 pairs of express and mail trains because there was waterlogging in the Tikia-para shed.”
 
 
