SHIMLA:   in Shimla scheduled for this month, have been postponed because due to revision of electoral rolls. Heeding complaints from  ,   and the public against discrepancies in electoral rolls, the State Election Commission has also assured to correct the   to ensure fair and smooth elections of the corporation.

 A spokesman of the commission said that as per the directions of the State Election Commission, the   Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner, Shimla prepared and notified the electoral rolls of Municipal Corporation Shimla on May 5 showing the number of total electors as 88,167 whereas the Chief Electoral Officer of the state had on May 5 informed the total number of electors enrolled by them as 85,546 for the Municipal Corporation area .
 
 The spokesman said though both the electoral rolls were prepared with reference to the qualifying date of January 1 this year, the difference was on the higher side. Moreover, 2200 applications were still pending. He informed special revision of the electoral rolls would be done from June 15 to June 23. The verification of electors already enrolled in the final electoral rolls and receipt of claims and objections by the revising authority would be completed between May 15 and May 24, whereas the work of preparations of list of voters whose names are proposed for additional/deletion/correction would be undertaken from May 25 to May 29.
 
 The process services of notices to electors would be done from May 30 to June 3 and the disposal of the cases from June 5 to June 12 by the revising authority. He said that appeal by the aggrieved voters to the Election Registration Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Shimla could be done within three days from the passing of orders by the revising authority. 
 
 The disposal of appeals would be sorted out within three days from the filing of appeals and the preparation of the supplementary lists-II and insertion of corrections in the finally published electoral rolls would be undertaken on June 23.
 
