KOLKATA: At the Pyarabagan crossing on the Kalyani Expressway-Madhyamgram connector just ask where the Ashram is and locals will gladly accompany you down a lane to the three-storied building. There is reason for this.

 Thanks to the efforts of a woman who arrived among them 19 years ago from Nadia's Tehatta, kids of the neighbourhood no longer have to travel far from home for their primary education. Not only does Sharmila Dasi run a primary school for 230 children, she also shelters 42  .And where do funds for the orphanage come from? Sharmila goes from door-to-door, even in parts of south Kolkata,  .
 
 “I was 22 years old in 1998 when I arrived at the Sri Gouranga Gauriya Mission Sevashram run by Bhakti Sadhak Sagar Goswami Maharaj.It was then a thatch and bamboo structure. The first orphan arrived here in 2000. A year later, I was handed over a pair of homeless twins by a hospital after their mother died during childbirth. At that time, one of them weighed1kg and the other 900 grams. This year, the same girls are preparing for their Madhyamik examination. As more orphans started arriving, I started pressing Sagar Maharaj for a school. Even then, I would go around begging for alms. When I returned, I never handed over the entire earnings to the ashram but kept a few rupees in a safe place. Gradually, I saved enough to lay the foundation for the school building and classes started from 2003,“ Sharmila says.
 
 There is another reason behind Sharmila's insistence for a school. Two of the orphans got lost while traveling to school several kilometres away .It took a lot of effort to trace them. Today , Sagar   is a government-approved school with 10 teachers but she has not been able to convince authorities to start the mid-day meal scheme. Nor does she receive any help for the orphanage for which she has now succeeded in obtaining a licence, after a long wait and six police verifications.
 
 “I require Rs 1.2 lakh every month for the orphanage. Of the 42 inmates, 41 are girls and 18 of them are in high school.Not all of them are from  . There are 14 girls from the Kokrajhar and Hailakandi districts of Assam. As the girls grow older, their requirements increase. Hand-me-downs and used clothes donated by people can be used as outer garments but what about innerwear? I leave the ashram in the morning every day and take a train.Sometimes I go to south Kolkata and visit people's homes in the Regent Park and Tollygunge. On other occasions, I travel to places like Sodepur and north Kolkata,“ she adds.
 
 Three suffer from epilepsy and funds are needed for their treatment. To make both ends meet, Sharmila has some tricks up her sleeve. She invites donors to the ashram and tells them how they can organise events like rice ceremonies and memorials in true Vaishnav tradition there. She cooks food for the guests and some of it gets left over for the inmates. She also makes a small earning that goes towards other expenses.
 
