Drink a glass of water with lemon and honey . Go for a run. Do 30 surya namaskars. Or, if your idea of a   is a little more adventurous, you could show up at a morning   party and dance the dawn away .

 A popular social movement in the west, morning parties are now making fitness-conscious Indians get up at 5am to head for a “do“ to burn calories. Aer, the rooftop club at Four Seasons, Mumbai, just hosted one. Organised by Magicrise, a morning dance movement, the party offered  , belly jazz, DJs thumping out dance tunes,   food and drinks and spectacular early-morning views of the Mumbai skyline for a cover charge of Rs 750 per person.
 
 Monisha Daga, an entrepreneur, attended a do at a GK-2 club in Delhi a few months ago. “There were these really good-looking trainers dancing on the stage and we all had to follow their moves. They really charged up the atmosphere and made us feel so young and energetic,“ says Daga.
 
 Trishla Kasliwal, a dentist, has attended two morning parties hosted by Gymtrekker, a fitness app. “There's a strong, positive vibe generated by so many people being happy and dancing together first thing in the morning. The best part: you don't have to dress up. Just put on your tracks and sneakers and you're ready ,“ she says. One may ask how a reg ular dance-exercise routine is different from a dance fitness party .Satish Bhadra of Gymtrekker explains: “These events are like hooks, they get nonexercising people inspired and charged up to take up regular exercising. It's also a fun but different way to unwind and enjoy a Sunday morning“. Bhadra has organised three parties so far.
 
 The idea of a feel-good, positive, wellness-type morning party originated in New York. Matthew Brimer and his girlfriend Radha Agrawal founded Daybreaker, an early morning dance movement, in 2013. In an online interview, Agrawal and Brimer explain that Daybreaker is a party “without alcohol, drugs and darkness, but with mindfulness, positivity and wellness“. People show up at the crack of dawn and dance like there's no tomorrow to beats belted out by some of the top DJs. At the end, everyone takes an oath to be good through the day and be ready to party again.
 
 Inspired by Daybreaker's concept and success, Uday Raj Anand, an Oxford-educated development economist, launched Crush Fitness in Delhi in 2015. “The challenge lies in making exercise feel like a party , and a party fun without alcohol,“ says Anand.
 
 According to Rakhi Mehta of Magicrise, who has hosted 15 parties across Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru in the past 10 months, the trend is gathering steam. “The morning party is an acquired taste,“ says Mehta.
 
