NEW DELHI: A day after a pan-India survey found that some of the dirtiest cities in India are in Uttar Pradesh, a Central government team has decided to visit Lucknow to review the progress of urban schemes such as Swachh Bharat, Smart City, AMRUT and Housing for All. 

 Union urban development minister M   with his battery of officers from the urban development and housing ministries will hold day long deliberations with chief minister  , state ministers and officials. 
 
 "The new government has come to power recently and it is serious about pushing development. India cannot be developed without developing the largest state," Naidu said on Thursday, while releasing the sanitation ranking of 434 cities. 
 
 This is the first such review of urban sector programmes since the formation of the new government in UP. 
 
 Being the most populous state of the country, the highest number of cities (62) and towns from UP are included in the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). 
 
 For the development of basic urban infrastructure in these mission cities, centre has approved a total investment of Rs 9,322 crore with a central assistance of Rs 5,043 crore. 
 
 Under the Smart City Mission also, UP has got the highest number of cities (13) included in the mission. Of these four - Lucknow, Agra, Kanpur and Varanasi - have been selected through two rounds of competition for financing. A total investment of Rs 8,770 crore has been approved by the Centre with central assistance of Rs 2,000 crore. The remaining cities are participating in the third round of the competition. 
 
 Mathura is included in the Heritage Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) for the development of heritage-related infrastructure with total central funding. 
 
 Under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban), only a few proposals have been received from the earlier state government based on which the central government approved construction of 20,682 affordable houses for urban poor with an investment of Rs 1,058 crore for which central assistance of Rs 466 crore has been approved.
 
