When Vaya Life CEO   mar worked at Apple, he realised the immense role design and engineering play in shaping a product's destiny.

 “Apple, when it launched the iPhone, was not doing something unique. They didn't design the first cellphone or any path-breaking technology. They took what was available and made it the best due to its standout design, style and engineering. And that's what I wantFRESH ed to do with tiffin COU Vasanth boxes,“ says the 32-year-old founder.
 
 And it looks like Vasantha kumar has struck gold with his idea, as Vaya tiffin boxes are flying off the shelves on Amazon. Selling in Hong Kong, Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore, these boxes seem to have got the Asian packed lunch concept right -that it has to be piping hot. “Our boxes have the most advanced thermal insulation that can keep food warm for as long as six hours. Last month, we sold 10,000 boxes on Amazon, so it looks like there is a small but growing American market too for our products,“ he says.
 
 Vaya Life (translates to strength and power in  ) has two factories in China and India and is now looking to expand into the personal consumer products space.
 
 In shades of graphite, maple, dew, black and gold for adults, Vaya Life boxes also have a special range for kids with cartoon characters or cool prints of cats and dinosaurs. Priced between Rs 2,300-Rs 2,990, these boxes also have   approval and are compliant with RoHS and European SVHC standards. Vaya Life has a retail presence in India with outlets in Chennai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, and sells via e-commerce channels to US, Malaysia, Singapore, China, Japan and other Southeast Asian countries.
 
 With Vaya's customer base split 60-40 between Asia and the US, the company feels it should educate its American clientele.
 
 “Most Asians are quite familiar with packed lunch boxes, but in the US we need to educate customers. Our American ads are very different from those in South Asia. Most Americans wrap their lunch in foil or take a simple plastic box -we want to change that. Whether it keeps their pastas and sandwiches hot or fruit salads cold our tiffin boxes are ideal,“ he says.
 
 Multi-tiered boxes are the only option for Asian cuisine, making them an attractive corporate gifting option.
 
 “Whether it is rice, noodles, vegetables on the side or meat, tiffin boxes are extremely useful. At an inhouse team event, with participants from other countries, we gifted all of them Vaya Life products. It was well received,“ says Aruna Kumari, project manager, HP India Sales Pvt Ltd, Bengaluru.
 
 “For my parents, I did the unthinkable. 'Why are you quitting Apple to sell tiffin boxes?' they intially complained. But now they have come around and are supportive of my venture. They also gave me some of my initial funding,“ Vasanthakumar says.
 
 (This series captures the startup ecosystem in the state)
 
