MUMBAI: In these days of viral self help, a common clip that does the rounds features author   extol ling the benefits of failure. The same advice was once given by an artiste who conjured up a different magical world. It was Kishori Amonkar's failure to sit for a college examination due to an illness in her youth that drove her to take music more seriously and become one of India's finest singers.

 Amonkar was the daughter and student of another extraordinary vocalist, Mogubai Kurdikar, who was trained in the Jaipur-Atrauli tradition. Her music was matched by her intellect and also her ability to articulate, not just in her native Marathi but also English. She was an obsessive reader and her favourite author was Somerset Maugham.
 
 Known for being a maverick musician who transcended tradition, she had said in an interview to this writer, “ A raga is actually a feeling, it is about creating an atmosphere. It has no boundaries. Tell me the boundaries of any season--of summer or winter. Can they be junctionised or partitioned?
 
 We tend to give preference to the medium but not the purpose behind the medium, which is to reach the universal. In its final analysis, Indian classical music is a feeling. It is not about you and me. It is not even about the raga or the singer. It is about universality. It is truth. The final destination is peace.“
 
 While the Indian classical music world has often been restrained by a self-imposed orthodoxy, Amonkar had a radical vision. But contrary as it may sound, her musical rebellion was deeply meditative. It had individuality, imagination and a romance that instantly made her connect with a wide audience. Musicologist Deepak Raja says, “She jettisoned the classicism of her gharana's style in favour of a marked ro manticism, braved criticism from conservative opinion and triumphed...She shed the austere melodic practices of her seniors, and made her phrasing ornate and endearing.“
 
 Manik Bhide, mother of noted vocalist Ashwini BhideDeshpande, who accompanied Amonkar during her rise as a performer, says, “She was a great artiste. Her Yaman and Bhoop stand out for me till this day.“
 
 Pt  , the first disciple Amonkar took under her wings in the April of 1961, says it wasn't just her ability to sing but to reach into the purity of notes and the spaces in between that took her music to a different level. “I saw even then that Kishoriji's understanding of what is melodic purity is above and beyond that of a regular musician. She spent hours ensuring the microtones in a raga were exactly how they should be. Not more, not less. At the same time, she didn't care about grammar as much as she cared about emotive content. She always said if the notes are tonally correct, the emotion will follow and so will the grammar.“ And while this stress on bhav or romance may have symbolised a departure from the rigidity of Jaipur gharana, ironically, it is also her biggest contribution to it. Today, her gayaki is a style unto itself.
 
 Shruti Sadolikar, a Jaipur stalwart herself, describes Amonkar as a rebel who first mastered the rules before brea king them. “She loved to leave her audiences bewildered. I remember Jaipur connoisseurs coming up to me during a concert to ask `is this how your gharana presents its music?' But Kishoriji didn't care. She had nothing to hide, be it in her rapid-fire taans, so crystal clear you heard every note resonate, or in her interplay with the poetry of verse and rhythm in compositions. She knew when she deviated and she did it with a fierce conviction.“ It is this staunch need to deviate only on her own terms that saw Amonkar decline several world collaborations, dubbing Indo-Western fusion a cacophony.
 
 `Mharo Pranam' was her most popular bhajan and her rendering of the popular `Babul Mora' in Bhairavi was on many people's playlists. But it was in her khayal gayaki that she truly shone, because not everyone can make melancholia seem almost desirable.
 
 Amonkar died on Monday night at the age of 84. But musicians in India never really die. They continue to resonate in temples, in concert halls, and through the music they leave behind. She was once asked that eternally plaintive question often asked of artistes: Is Indian classical music dying?
 
 “Look here,“ she said. “Truth never dies. I would have liked to see more of it around me in this era. But things will come around...“ And that is Amonkar's final bandish to the world.
 
