LUCKNOW: Mother of  , MSc Biotechnology student of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) who went missing from campus on October 15, 2016,   gave a call for peaceful march by students in Lucknow on Sunday. After four months of persistent fight to bring back her son, she made the appeal here on Saturday. Nafees and her family are natives of Badaun that goes to poll on February 15 and believes Najeeb’s matter is pertinent to UP.

 Not lending support to any political party, Nafees said the protest was to bring to notice Najeeb's “involuntary disappearance” and raise the issue of student safety in the country. “I only want my son back, safe and sound,” she said. 
 
 Talking to reporters in the city on Saturday and flanked by JNU Students' Union president Mohit Pandey, former vice-president  , Student Islamic Organisation national secretary Azharuddin, her younger son Mujeeb and family friend Nadeem Khan, Nafees broke down while speaking, and sobbed even as she raised questions.
 
 “What was my son’s fault to get beaten up inhumanly and be forced to disappear? I have not been able to find him yet. I have met each and every politician from Delhi and even the UP chief minister but justice has eluded me. I don’t want action against anyone, I just want back my son who is paying the price for having chosen higher education for himself,” said Nafees.
 
 The peaceful march from Parivartan Chowk to Gandhi statue at 1pm on Sunday will also be attended by former president of JNUSU Kanhaiya Kumar and students and office-bearers of the Aligarh Muslim University Students’ Union, including its president Faizul Hasan and secretary Nabeel Usmani. Similar march will be taken out on Sunday in Jamshedpur, Jabalpur, Hyderabad and two in Kerala. 
 
 Nafees and the group who had led a peaceful march in her hometown Badaun on February 8 said while an FIR was filed against 150 persons including her, Mohit Pandey and Nahas Mala (SIO national president), there was absolutely no action against the alleged culprits belonging to ABVP-the student wing of BJP and RSS since the incident. “In fact Najeeb and his relative’s home in Badaun was raided by the UP police on January 28. Rigvht from the first day of his disappearance, the family has been harassed for complaining about the assault by ABVP on Najeeb in JNU on October 15,” said Pandey. 
 
