KOCHI: They came back to where their hearts have always been.

 Thousands of former students descended on the Maharaja's College campus on Sunday from all over Kerala, many with families in tow; some came from different parts of India, a handful from as far as the  . 
 
 They came so that they could meet up with their college buddies in the flesh, once again ascend that claustrophobic spiral staircase next to English Literature department giddy with disbelief, stroll down the sprawling central courtyard with its rain trees and magnolia blossoms, recline on `division bench' and generally breathe in that special Maharaja's air that has made anyone who has ever studied there feel regal and privileged all their life. 
 
 It is 32 years since she passed out from Maharaja's College in 1982 but that didn't stop Dr   from Hou ston in the US to fly down just for this event. “After Maharaja's, I went to Kozhikode medical college to pursue MBBS. Later, I went abroad,“ Jasmine told TOI. “For a few years after we passed out, we lost contact with each other.Later, we started getting in touch. Ever since I heard the news of Maharajakeeyam, I was waiting for this day. I came from the US only to attend the event and see my friends face to face,“ said Jasmine, an associate professor of family medicine at an Ivy League-affiliated medical centre.
 
 According to the organizers of the event, around 10,000 people turned up for the event. “We prepared food for around 5,000 people. As former students, we belong to different backgrounds and statuses but like in our student days the blood running in all of us is that of Maharaja's,“ said K R Viswambharan, former vice-chancellor of  , who is the chairman of the organizing committee.
 
 After a star-studded inaugural session, former students sung film songs which invariably reflected their student-days paradise. While musical events were progressing at the main venue in front of the centenary auditorium, the tree-lined open space in the middle of the campus witnessed a get-together of different batches. But unlike old times, the friends had their kids and spouses with them.
 
 Classrooms, staircases, verandas, under the trees ­ it was chock-a-bloc with former students. Mohammed Rafi, CEO of a hotel chain in Dubai, flew in just to be with his old college pals. “In fact, my family kept reminding me of at t e n d i n g t h e event. They all know my passion towards Maharaja's,“ Rafi said.In the campus the excitement was palpable on his face ­ his passion appeared justified.
 
 Jasmine shared the same sentiment. “My close friend Ambika Kumar and noted theatre personality C N Sreekantan Nair came from Doha.Many of our classmates have come from across the country and abroad. We all had a good time here,“ Jasmine said.
 
 There was a photography exhibition portraying different faces and phases of Maharaja's and an exhibition of books too, including a separate one for books written by former students.
 
 But finally, as Jayachandran and his batch mates of 1987-90 BA Malayalam, poignantly said, “This college is in our hearts. For us, Maharaja's is a feeling which we can never translate into words“.
 
