NEW DELHI: Amaravati has been designed as a sustainable capital of Andhra Pradesh with 100% treatment and recycling of both solid and liquid waste and vacuum-cleaning of crowded areas. It is also set to become the first urban area which will get most of the construction material through waterway to build the 21.23sq km state capital.

 Many of the benchmarks set for the development for the future city are at par with Sweden, Japan, Taiwan and UAE. Moreover, the city will have infrastructure to floodproof it for 100 years.
 
 The capital being developed as a greenfield city will also be built using construction material that will be transported through a waterway .The state has estimated investment of about Rs 50,000 crore for developing infrast ructure and other facilities.The 70km of Krishna river is being dredged for movement of river ships in the next one year from the construction material hub.
 
 This will be first such waterway , which be used for development of a city . Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) has already started dredging on the 80-km stretch between Muktyala to Vijayawada of Krishna river. Muktyar has a major cement plant and it's also known as the hub for construction material. “The waterway will be enough to transport cement and other construction material for the new capital city.The project includes construction of three permanent terminals and to facilitate movement of passengers and cargo, we will have four floating jetties,“ said an IWAI official. In order to implement the project the authority has moved the proposal for a special purpose vehicle (SPV) in which the Andhra Pradesh government will be a partner.
 
 Besides residential and government buildings, Amaravati will have 12 institutions spread over 995 acres and will see Rs 17,808 crore investment. There will be educational institutions, health centres and Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam besides other government establishments. By 2050, the city expects to get 3.5 million population. Some of the other features include 100% recycling of solid and liquid waste, vacuum system for high density areas and using technology to minimise need for land fill areas.
 
 IWAI officials said transport cost will depend on total quantity of cargo to be shipped through the waterway.
 
