CHANDIGARH: Former   leader   and Capt  , the   party chief in  , have much in common. Both share a Patiala connection — they were born there — and love for cricket. And, both belong to the Jat community: Sidhu.
 
  Sidhu, the cricketer-turned-politician who just joined the Congress, has a Congress background as well. His father, Bhagwant Singh Sidhu, was an office-bearer of the Patiala district Congress committee, under the command of ‘Rajmata’ Mohinder Kaur of Patiala. His mother had fought assembly elections twice on Congress tickets.
  
  “When my mother was DCC-Patiala president, Sidhu’s father was her general secretary,” Amarinder Singh said.
  
  Sidhu jolted the BJP in September 2016, by resigning as its Rajya Sabha member barely three months after being nominated. After he formally joined the Congress on Monday, Sidhu called it “ghar wapsi”.
  
  If the love of cricket brought the Sidhu family and the royal family of Patiala together, their political affiliations, after the cricketer joined the BJP, had turned them into rivals.
  
  “The fact that the Sidhu family has a dual connection — in the form of cricket and association with the Congress — can’t be ignored. The Patiala connection attached with both will remain quintessential,” said political scientist Surinder Shukla.
  
  Sidhu, who also represented the BJP in the Lok Sabha from Amritsar, developed differences with leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal, the BJP’s coalition partner in Punjab. Sidhu’s namesake wife, Navjot Kaur, who was elected as an MLA on a BJP ticket, openly opposed the Badals and her own government over non-disbursal of funds to her constituency, Amritsar East.
  
  The final nail in the coffin was when the BJP chose Arun Jaitley over Sidhu as its Lok Sabha candidate Amritsar in 2014.
  
  Sidhu hails from Patiala but started his political innings as Amritsar MP of BJP in 2004. He resigned in 2006 following his conviction in a road rage case.
  
  He went on to win the Amritsar byelection in 2007 and retained the seat in the 2009 general elections, but went “missing” from Amritsar after becoming a part of the popular TV show ‘Comedy Nights with Kapil’.
  
  After his meeting with Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday, Sidhu took to social media to announce his joining the Congress, tweeting, “Beginning new inning, on the front foot.”
  
  But many within the Congress question his late arrival on the poll scene, and wonder if he would be able to move beyond his own constituency, Amritsar East, with elections 17 days away. “In that case how is the Congress benefiting from his entry at this point of time,” asked a senior party leader.
  
  So far his namesake legislator wife from the same constituency has been holding the fort. “My husband will address more than 70 rallies in the next few days, which I think is all right,” she said, when asked about Sidhu’s delayed entry into the Congress fold. 
