BENGALURU: The state government has proposed to   on 30ft x 40ft plots on   within 3 to 18km of the periphery of municipal corporations, municipalities and town panchayats across the state. 

  The proposal, according to sources in the revenue department, will come as a respite for thousands of middle-class families who have unwittingly either built or bought houses constructed on government lands in revenue pockets. 
 
  Moreover, the government will generate hundreds of crores of rupees as penalty collected from those who apply for regularization. The issue is likely to come up for discussion at the cabinet meeting on Wednesday and the quantum of penalty will be decided based on the type of urban local bodies. "The fee for regularization will be nominal," a revenue department source said. 
 
  Though the relaxation is not applicable to   (BBMP), sources said illegal constructions around Bengaluru will benefit as the proposed relief will cover the urban local bodies of Anekal, Devanahalli, Magadi, Malur, Hoskote and Nelamangala. 
 
  The other cities where 30x40 ft sites will be regularized include Ballari, Belagavi, Davanagere, Hubballi-Dharwad, Kalauragi, Mangaluru, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Tumakuru and Vijayapura. 
 
  "If the cabinet gives its green signal to the proposal, those who have built houses on government lands will not have to live under the fear of their houses being demolished." official sources said, adding, "The move is likely to generate a lot of goodwill for the   government in the run-up to the assembly polls next year. It is mostly the middle class that builds houses on 30x40 sites (1,200 sq ft)." 
 
  
 
 
  Last year, the government had announced regularization of illegal structure built on 20ft x30ft (600 sqft) plots on lands located 18km away from Bengaluru's periphery. However, in cities such as Mysuru, Belagavi, Kalaburagi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Mangaluru, the buildings seeking regularization were to be located 10km away from the periphery. 
 
 
