VADODARA/ANAND:   have arrested three more persons including Dushyant Patel, the former BJP city unit president of Borsad and former municipality president, Harshad Patel, a BJP worker and Mitesh Patel, an independent councillor, in connection with the firing on Borsad’s independent councillor Pragnesh Patel. The trio on Sunday were sent to four days remand. 

 The trio was arrested after their names were revealed by main accused Chandresh Patel, who was recently   from Thailand and handed over to Anand police. Chandresh, who is accused for masterminding the murder bid, is presently on five days remand. 
 
 The primary interrogation by Gujarat ATS had revealed that Chandresh’s friend   had arranged his meeting with underworld don Ravi Pujari’s shooter Suresh Pillai of Thane. Chandresh allegedly had an old enmity with Pragnesh over the cable network business in Borsad and was furious about an attack on him by Pragnesh’s brother Sanket in October last. 
 
 Moreover, Chandresh’s mother Shanta Patel was defeated in the local body elections against Pragnesh which had fuelled the enmity. 
 
 Chandresh had allegedly offered Pillai Rs 25 lakh to eliminate Pragnesh, who has survived the attack after undergoing operation at a private multispecialty hospital in Vadodara. 
 
 Chandresh had now revealed that the Rs 1.5 lakh that he had paid to Shyamgiri were allegedly given to him by accused Dushyant Patel and Harshad Patel to carry out the job, police sources said. He has also alleged that Mitesh had paid him Rs 50,000 to meet his travel expenses to Thailand. Ironically, Mitesh is said to be a close friend of Pragnesh. The duo had contested the recently held civic body polls in the same panel. In fact, sources said that Mitesh used to frequently visit to inquire about Pragnesh’s health at the Vadodara based hospital. 
 
 With the fresh arrests, the total arrests in the case have reached nine as the cops had already arrested Chandresh, his brother-in-law Mehul Patel, who was BJP’s youth wing president in Borsad, sharp shooters Suresh Pillai and Shabir Momin apart from Ghanshyamgiri and Shyamgiri Goswami.
 
