NEW DELHI: With the UP election coming to an end on Wednesday, UP Congress president   has claimed that the “Congress-SP alliance has given a united and fierce fight to the BJP” and, then interestingly added, “Our sixer shot is reserved for the 2019 match”.
 
  The   chief also said that the Congress’ decision to align with   was “indeed resisted by our party workers initially”, but then, the alliance was “absolutely necessary for countering the   government unleashing the might of its official machinery and the   its huge money power”.
  
  “Our electoral battle in UP has been an extremely interesting and challenging experience for all of us… the leaders and workers unitedly fought. Since we had, in the beginning, made elaborate preparations for fighting on our own, the decision to enter into the alliance with SP was dramatic.
  
  Yes, Congress workers initially resisted aligning with SP. But, for Congress and SP, forming the alliance was absolutely necessary to jointly counter the way the Modi government unleashed the might of the central government’s machinery and BJP’s huge money power. For us, it was also a fight to ensure the unity of India against the divisive policies of the Modi government and BJP,” he said.
  
  Asked about his poll prediction, Babbar said, “I am confident of good results for us. The Congress has put up a united fight in UP. The entire Congress-SP alliance has put up a determined and fierce fight against BJP. Yes, I must say, our sixer shot is still reserved for the 2019 match.”
  
  On the UP front,   is keeping its fingers crossed for two main reasons: the outcome in UP, to some extent, will shape the course of politics which leads to the 2019   polls and, more importantly, for the Congress,   has literally staked his personal prestige in the battle by unleashing a highly personalised campaign blitzkrieg (along with  ) and by inking the first-ever alliance with the party’s foe-turned ally SP.
  
  For once, AICC has also advertised Priyanka Gandhi’s personal stake by crediting her with “major contributions” in making a Congress alliance with SP. Babbar acknowledged that profusely: “It was amazing to see the extremely high personal commitment and energy Rahulji displayed all through by leading us from the front, by campaigning almost every day for more than a month, addressing two to three rallies per day, motivating leaders and workers... And Priyankaji’s contribution was much beyond expectations, the way she coordinated and made important contributions mostly from behind the scene...”.
  
  On PM leading BJP’s campaign and the impact of note recall on polls, Babbar said, “The PM was campaigning as (though) he was in a corporation elections. The way he spoke and raked up certain trivial issues was not exactly very dignifying... For   everything is his ‘tongue-sheet’ not balance-sheet even though he has been asking what the balance-sheet of the five-year-rule of the Akhilesh regime was.” 
