KOCHI: The Biennale opened new horizons for cutting edge   through various innovative art installations that can contribute towards a   The most illustrious among these were the Pavilion at   which was host to a variety of events like poetry recitations by famed poets and performances of varied kind, and Shell Pavilion at the  , a prototype for a full-fledged sports pavilion. 

 The Pavilion at the Cabral Yard, designed by architect and KMB 2016 participant Tony Joseph, sports a rugged and rustic facade, inside of which is an air-conditioned   with a seating capacity of 300 people at a time. The 4,157 square feet structure was constructed using recycled rubbles and discarded materials from Fort Kochi, conveying the unequivocal message of the extent to which the three R's of environment can be put to use.
 
 "The structure is an exploration into recycling and reusing materials as a way to reduce the impact on the environment. There are a lot of demonstrative elements which amalgamate to form the design," Joseph said.
 
 Earth dug from the land in which the Pavilion stands along with broken plywoods and stones were used to construct the 'debris wall'. Old sarees collected from local households interwoven with trusses made from fragmented planks were used to set the roof of the Pavilion, with the multihued lights and sarees creating a fluid pattern of lights and colours. While arecanut planks were put to use for the temporary wooden galleries at the back, a combination of lime and sand was used for flooring.
 
 The Shell Pavilion which materialized under the aegis of three architects from different parts of the world -- Asif Rahman Junaid, Giombattista Areddia and Mohamad Yassin -- is made of spores and a wooden structure that forms the growing ground for a fungi that works as a clock on the structure. 
 
 Use of mycelium in architecture popularly known as mycotecture, in which concrete and bricks and other conventional construction materials are replaced with an eatable fungi that is lightweight yet tough, is the basic idea on which the trio has developed their innovative 'time-bound buildings' concept.
 
