A look back at the limited-overs career of India's most successful captain,  , who on January 4 announced that he was giving up the leadership of the ODI and T20I sides.

 
  Makes his ODI debut against Bangladesh in Chittagong. Is run out for 0 after facing one ball, in a match India win by 11 runs.
 
 
  The first ODI hundred by an Indian wicketkeeper. After scores of 0, 12, 7* and 3, Dhoni is sent up the order to No 3 against Pakistan in Visakhapatnam and proceeds to smash 148 off 123 balls with 15 fours and four sixes, setting the platform for India's 356/9. The world wakes up to Dhoni's potential. 
 
 
  Dhoni stamps himself into the history books with a record 183* against Sri Lanka in Jaipur, helping India chase 301 with six wickets and 23 deliveries to spare. Batting at No 3, his 145-ball hundred makes a stiff target look well short and India go up 3-0 in the best-of-seven series. 
 
 
  Dhoni's first international match in charge of India is a wash out against Scotland in their ICC World Twenty20 opener. Few could have predicted how India's tournament will pan out. 
 
 
  India win the inaugural World Twenty20 by beating Pakistan in an absolute humdinger in Johannesburg. Dhoni is an overnight sensation once more and the landscape of T20 cricket is changed forever. 
 
 
  Captains India for the first time in ODIs, in a washed out fixture with Australia in Bangalore. Chasing 308, India are 9/1 when rain arrives. 
 
 
  In the next match in Kochi, Dhoni scores his first fifty as captain - 58 off 88 balls - as India are beaten by 84 runs to fall behind 0-1 in the seven-match series. 
 
 
  India's first ODI win under Dhoni comes in the fourth match of the series with Australia, and the skipper leaves his imprint with 50* off 35 balls and two stumpings to be named Man of the Match. 
 
 
  First ODI series win for Dhoni as captain, as India beat Pakistan by six wickets in Gwalior to take the lead 3-1 in the best-of-five series. His contribution? An unbeaten 45 off 45 balls as 256 is chased with six wickets in hand. 
 
 
  A momentous occasion for India as they win their first ODI series in Australia. The landmark comes in the second final of the CB Series, which India win by nine runs to make it 2-0. 
 
 
  Having skipped the Tests in Sri Lanka, Dhoni returns for the ODI leg of India's tour and wins his third series. Victory in the fourth ODI in Colombo makes it 3-1 to India, with Dhoni scoring 71 off 80 balls. 
 
 
  Dhoni’s first 5-0 sweep of any team. Victory by six wickets in Cuttack whitewashes Kevin Pietersen’s England. 
 
 
  Dhoni becomes the first Indian captain to win an ODI series in New Zealand. A whirlwind century from   seals a ten-wicket win in Hamilton.
 
 
  Defending champions India exit the second World Twenty20 in the league stage, having lost to West Indies, England and South Africa. 
 
 
  Dhoni’s unbeaten 46 off 34 balls at Gros Islet clinches a pulsating ODI with one ball remaining and seals the series against West Indies. Needing 11 from the last over, India win with a six from the skipper. 
 
 
  Dhoni oversees a 2-4 loss to Australia at home, his first on Indian soil. 
 
 
  India are beaten by Sri Lanka in the final of a tri-nation tournament in Bangladesh.
 
 
  India win a three-match series at home over South Africa, riding on Sachin Tendulkar’s record-setting 200*. Dhoni injects 68 off 35 balls to a total of 401/3. 
 
 
  Another disappointing World Twenty20 for Dhoni’s team as they are eliminated in the league stage again, this time after Sri Lanka beat them off the last ball in St Lucia. 
 
 
  India lift the Asia Cup under  , beating Sri Lanka by 81 runs in Dambulla. 
 
 
  India win the World Cup after 28 years, with the skipper hitting the winning runs with a six. Promoting himself up the order, Dhoni shrugs off his poor run in the tournament with the innings of his life: 91* off 79 balls. 
 
 
  India’s luckless tour of England continues with a series sweep in the ODIs. Dhoni’s team does not win a single match on tour.
 
 
  India salvage some pride with a 5-0 win over England when Alastair Cook’s team visit. Dhoni is Player of the Series. 
 
 
  India’s awful tour of Australia continues as they bow out of the CB Series following Sri Lanka’s win in the last league match. Dhoni's team wins just three of eight matches. 
 
 
  India are eliminated from the Asia Cup. Their chances of reaching the final are dented with defeat to Bangladesh in the ODI in which Tendulkar scores his 100th international century. 
 
 
  India beat South Africa by one run in their last league match of the fourth World Twenty20, having already been knocked out of the tournament.
 
 
  Dhoni marshals his troops superbly to lead India to a narrow five-run win in the final of the Champions Trophy over hosts England, thus becoming the first captain to hold all three of the ICC’s major titles. 
 
 
  Dhoni hits India to another title win, this time in the final of a tri-series in the West Indies. India are nine down needing 15 off the last over against Sri Lanka. The second ball goes for six, the third for four and the fourth for six more to seal a thrilling victory.
 
 
  India beat Australia 3-2 at home with victory in the seventh ODI in Bangalore, in which Rohit Sharma becomes the third male batsman to cross 200. Dhoni hits 62 off 38 balls. 
 
 
  South Africa beat India 2-0 in the ODIs in South Africa. 
 
 
  India’s overseas woes continue with a whitewash at the hands of New Zealand, 0-4. 
 
 
  Sri Lanka beat Dhoni’s India by six wickets in the final of the World Twenty20 in Mirpur.
 
 
  A sliver of brightness for India away from home. They beat England by nine wickets in Birmingham to win the ODI leg of another difficult tour.
 
 
  India’s winless tour of Australia ends with a three-wicket loss to England in the tri-series just before the World Cup.
 
 
  Dhoni hits 85* off 76 balls to help defending champions India into the quarter-finals of the World Cup. They beat Zimbabwe by six wickets at Eden Park.
  
 
  India exit the World Cup with a 95-run loss to hosts Australia at the SCG. It ends a run of eight matches in a row without loss in the tournament. 
 
 
  Consecutive defeats to Bangladesh make Dhoni the first Indian captain to lose an ODI series in Bangladesh. 
 
 
  India’s poor run in ODIs continues with defeat to South Africa in the final match in Mumbai. India concede 438/4 and lose by 214 runs.
 
 
  Dhoni leads India to a landmark 3-0 sweep of Australia in Australia in the T20Is that follow a 1-4 loss in the ODI leg. 
 
 
  India beat Bangladesh in the final of the Asia Cup - now a T20 tournament - to send them into the World Twenty20 on a high.
 
 
  Dhoni’s coolness and ability to back players under immense pressure is to the fore in Bangalore, where Bangladesh are beaten by one run during the World Twenty20. Dhoni helps India pull off an incredible heist. 
 
 
  India are beaten by West Indies in the semi-finals in Mumbai. After the loss, Dhoni calls an Australia reporter onto the dais during the press conference in an unprecedented move.
 
 
  Dhoni rounds off India’s tour of Zimbabwe with a 3-1 win in the T20Is. The ODIs are a 3-0 sweep for his fledgling team.
 
 
  Leads India to a 3-2 ODI series win over New Zealand, completing the victory in the deciding final match. 
 
 
  Announces that he is giving up the captaincy, but remains available for selection for the upcoming England series.
 
