NEW DELHI: The   asked the Election Commission on Friday to respond to a PIL which alleged that despite periodic allegations of tampering,   (EVMs) have never been tested by software experts to determine their susceptibility.

 Advocate petitioner M L Sharma, who could claim to be one among few most prolific PIL petitioners in the SC, argued before a bench of Chief Justice   and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Sanjay Kishan Kaul that the court must order a CBI investigation into the allegations of   during elections and get these vote recording machines tested by software experts.
 
 But the bench refused to involve CBI in the case for now and issued notice only to the EC seeking its response within four weeks. The EC had on several occasions filed affidavits in the SC in the past reiterating that EVMs used in India were tamperproof. The EC had said EVMs in India cannot be hacked as they were unlike the personal computer-based machines used for elections in western countries.
 
 Allegations of EVM tampering cropped up soon after results of the recent assembly elections were announced. BSP chief Mayawati was the first to raise this immediately after the UP assembly election results, in which BJP swept its rivals to an inconsequential number of MLAs. She alleged that EVMs were tampered with.
 
 AAP chief and Delhi chi ef minister Arvind Kejriwal too levelled similar charges questioning the efficacy of EVMs after his party suffered a shock defeat in Punjab.AAP demanded that EVMs be replaced by paper ballot in the coming civic body elections in Delhi, a demand that was rejected by EC saying it was too late.
 
 Sharma's PIL said: “There is now a serious and substantial body of evidence for vote-stealing by tampering with EVMs. Very recently , fraud and tampering was complained of in Mumbai where zero votes were recorded in favour of an independent candidate while he and his family had voted for himself. This is but one evidence of a case of fraud which proves that EVMs have been tampered.“
 
