NAGPUR: Students enrolling in higher education institutions will soon have to give an undertaking to   when they turn 18. The colleges will have to ensure registration of all students in electoral rolls and all received   identity card.

 The state election commission ( ) has undertaken a drive with the help of the state government to ensure registration of everyone attaining 18 years of age in electoral rolls.
 
 State election commissioner JS Saharia told TOI that main motive behind the drive is to make youngsters realize their responsibility of registering names in electoral rolls and vote. “Voting is national duty. Therefore, we need to make students aware of their responsibility,” he said.
 
 The state government has issued a circular to departments of higher and technical education, agriculture, animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries as well as to universities. 
 
 Taking the lead, animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries department issued a notification on May 5 directing city-based   (MAFSU) to initiate the process.
 
 The institutions will have to append the format of undertaking, along with form no- 6, 7, 8 and 8A for voters registration, to their admission forms.
 
 The college will have to appoint a nodal officer for the drive. The officer will collect the forms and submit them to the collector office twice in a year or as frequently as possible. The district collector will have to also ensure names of new voters in electoral rolls and distribution of voter identity cards during electoral revision drives or on January 25, on the occasion of National Voters Day.
 
 “The Election Commission of India take initiatives for registering new voters and revise electoral rolls on a regular basis. Summary revision drive is being conducted every year in September and October. Collectors, municipal commissioners etc do needful job under the drive. Still, the SEC is receiving several complaints about flaws in electoral rolls. Most youngsters take admission in college after passing out from Std XII. Therefore, the SEC has taken such decision after detailed study,” the notification said.
 
