NEW DELHI: Brace for major traffic chaos in the city and other NCR areas on Monday with the traffic police putting much of central Delhi in lockdown mode and imposing restrictions on   in NCR in anticipation of the march by Jats from Haryana. For office-goers and other commuters, besides students appearing for the board exams, reaching their destinations can turn into a nightmare with major arteries likely to get choked. Increased vigil on the border with Gurgaon and Noida will slow down traffic. Any law and order problem can only make matters worse.

 Not willing to take any chances, the cops will be curbing Metro services partially from Sunday night and not allow commuters to exit at many Metro stations in central Delhi (see graphic). Lutyens’ Delhi is being made out of bounds to prevent the Jats from reaching Parliament. These “limited restrictions” on traffic movement will come into effect from 11pm on Sunday due to which all roads around India Gate and Connaught Place and routes leading to Lok Kalyan Marg and Parliament Street will become no-go zones.
 
 Surge pricing can be expected to come into effect in the app-based cab services and autorickshaws will be preying on commuters as usual. Any violence will hit even these services. 
 
 The police have warned about traffic snarls on Mathura Road, from Ashram onwards, BRT, Vikas Marg, Deshbandhu Gupta Road and Ring Road, from Sarai Kale Khan onwards. Areas around Dhaula Kuan will also get choked during peak hours due to the restrictions. Commuters going to the airport have been asked to take Ring Road and Outer Ring Road. “One can expect traffic jams on the roads leading to the borders. We are in touch with our counterparts in neighbouring states to ensure a systematic checking mechanism,” said a traffic police officer.
 
 Those heading for New Delhi, Old Delhi and Delhi Cantt railway stations must leave with ample time in hand because of diversions and congestion.
 
 Drivers entering the city from other NCR areas have been asked to carry valid id proofs and clearly mention their purpose of visit to the city when asked. “We will stop every vehicle entering the city at the checkposts for verification and anyone entering with more than five passengers in a car will be stopped for questioning,” said a police officer. Joint commissioner, traffic, Garima Bhatnagar said entry of tractors, trucks and trolleys will be completely banned from Sunday night.
 
 Traffic police officers said that only bonafide residents, office employees, emergency services, candidates for interviews and examinations, ambulances, hearse vans, fire tenders and buses carrying school children will be allowed to enter the restricted zones. Students appearing for board exams have been asked to carry their admit cards and present them for verification at the barricades.
 
 The police has advised people who need to go to Connaught Place to travel by Metro to   and then walk all the way. People bound for New Delhi railway station from south Delhi should use Ring Road through   and take a turn at ITO or  .
 
 “I have requested my employees to leave for office at ITO earlier than usual to ensure that they reach on time. We are also trying to arrange for cab services for some of them,” said  , who runs a finance company near Asaf Ali Road in central Delhi. Some other offices are seeking permission for plying buses for their employees.
 
 “I plan to take a cab to New Ashok Nagar Metro station on Monday morning and board the Metro in case the cops allow entry of cabs through border roads,” said Madhulika Rajkhowa, a teacher who lives in Noida and works at a private school in south Delhi. But many in Noida and Gurgaon are as of now clueless about how they will overcome the hurdles besides being worried about their safety.
 
 Vehicles from west Delhi have been advised to take Ring Road-Boulevard Road-Baraf Khana Chowk-Rani Jhansi Road-Faiz Road-DBG Road route. From east Delhi, the suggested route is Vikas Marg-Geeta Colony flyover-Rajghat crossing- Delhi Gate-JLN Marg stretch to cross through central Delhi.
 
 Delhi Metro officials have said that the restrictions will be in place till the time the police decide to lift them. 
 
 Police officers say that more than 200 traffic police teams will be deployed to streamline vehicular movement during peak hours.
 
 
