VIZIANAGARAM: Public and industrial representatives taking part in the public hearing of the   (APERC) here on Monday appealed to the commission to ensure that the new power tariffs effective from the beginning of fiscal 2017-18 are at least Re 1 less per unit than the existing rate in all categories, particularly in the domestic category.

 Nearly 60 representatives from across the state took part in the first public hearing of APERC at the office of Vizianagaram circle of   (APEPDCL).
 
 B Tulasi Das from Sambamurthy Road in Vijayawada said the state government as well as the power utilities claim that they have surplus electricity. “What is the need of increasing the power tariff if there is surplus? The government should take the responsibility of the losses or deficits of power utilities, not the people,” Tulasi Das said.
 
  state secretariat member Ch Narasinga Rao from Vizag city said the state government every year increases the power tariffs despite its discoms winning several awards for best practices.
 
 “Hike of power tariffs indirectly burdens the common man whose cost of living goes up. The government through the APERC should re-consider the proposals of the discoms,” Narasinga Rao added.
 
 KV Rao, senior general manager (projects) of   from Visakhapatnam, said the discoms proposed Rs 1,000 as the monthly demand charge per kilovolt amperes (kVA) against the current Rs 385.84 for consumers of HT-II categories. 
 
 “Such proposals will have a major impact on the industries and it will not give desired results on the government’s ‘Make in India’ concepts. I request the APERC to reconsider the proposals targeting industries,” Rao said. 
 
 Sub-engineer B Tirupathi Rao said the APERC will collect Rs 0.10 (ten paise) per unit from agriculture farmers. “This will create a responsibility among the farmers in proper utilisation of the free power. Besides it can urge them to switch over to an alternative power sources like agriculture solar pump sets. This apart, the discoms would also come out with several advanced methods in digital payments such as lifting the gateway charges for online payments to attract more payments through the online mode,” Tirupathi Rao added.
 
 Earlier, APEPDCL CMD MM Nayak said the proposed hike in the power tariff was very minimal and would not affect a large section of domestic consumers. He said the discom proposed to invest nearly Rs 8,194 crore to buy electricity, Rs 441 crore for transmission and Rs 1,523 crore as distribution cost. Overall, the discom’s expenditure would be Rs 10,481 crore in the next fiscal. The discom’s present revenue receipt is Rs 8,894 crore and expected revenue after the power tariff hike would be Rs 1,110 crore. APERC chairman G Bhavani Prasad said he would record the suggestions of all the representatives and announce the final decision next month. 
 
 
