MANGALURU: Subramanian Swamy,   MP, assured thousands of gau worshipers and lovers that he will take the initiative to table anti-cow slaughter bill in the next Parliament session and stressed on building Ram Temple in Ayodhya.

 Swamy was addressing the concluding ceremony of   here on Sunday. It was attended by thousands of cow lovers and hundreds seers from across country.
 
 Addressing the attendees, Swamy said that the Constitution of India should make mandatory amendments for Gau Rakshan. “Cows are the resources of our country, but sadly, it is being looted by some for meat. Those who steal our resources should be given death penalty,” he demanded.
 
 He said that he will table anti-cow slaughter bill in the upcoming session. Along with a ban on cow killing, he also stressed that Ram Mandir will be built in Ayodhya.
 
 Another seer commenting on the ban on kambala, a local traditional sport of coastal Karnataka, said that kambala is entertainment and asking to put a ban on it is foolishness. Like jallikattu, there is no harm done to animals here. If someone is really worried about animals, let them put a ban on slaughtering of animals during festivities, he suggested. The seer also wanted cow as national animal instead of tiger.
 
 Sri Raghaveshwara Bharati, pontiff of Shri Ramachandrapura Mutt, Hosanagara, Shivamogga district, speaking on ‘Maha Triveni’ said they have achieved a lot by organizing Gau Mela. 
 
 He appealed to the people to not send their cows to slaughter houses once they are aged rather send them to gaushalas. “Give it to us, we will look after them in gaushalas,” he said.
 
 The seer pointed out that beef is poison and it has been scientifically proven. “Researches claim that beef consumption can result in brain damage,” he added.
 
 Uniform Civil Code enforcement 
 
 Rajya Sabha MP and economist Subramanian Swamy assured that it is certain that soon the Central government will pass the Uniform Civil Code. 
 
 He delivered a special lecture on Uniform Civil Code at a programme organized by the legal cell of district   unit at Sheshashayana Hall of Hotel Kediyoor.
 
