HYDERABAD: Studious and jovial. That’s how professors at the   remember ‘Roll No 245’ Srinivas Kuchibhotla. 

 The 32-year-old engineer -- shot dead in Kansas on Thursday -- completed his course in electrical and electronics engineering from VJIT (Aziz Nagar) in 2005 that’s affiliated to the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University. 
 
 “He was very studious and obedient. There were about 59 students in his class and he was always among the top 10. Srinivas regularly attended classes and had a thick circle of intellectual friends ,” said Balagangi Reddy, professor in the EEE department recalling the young professional’s years in the college. After completing his BTech, Srinivas went to the US to pursue a Masters in Electrical and Electronics engineering from University Of Texas, El Paso. 
 
 “It is very unfortunate that Srinivas became a victim of  . We hope that justice is delivered to his family,” said Shaik Mohammed Zafarulla, head of the department, EEE, reiterating how the entire faculty at the college were in a state of shock after hearing the news. 
 
 Some of his friends too remembered the engineer as kind and friendly. Many took to social media to share their grief. “I will sleep with a very heavy heart today as I learnt my friend Srinu Kuchibhotla is no more, subjected to racial fight and shooting in a Kansas city bar tonight. I am feeling totally numb, I so wished this nonsense will go away, but this is getting real more and more every day. If this is not call for action, then I do not know what is (sic),” posted Reetika Bhandari. 
 
 At another part of the city, members of the NRI Parents Association in Hyderabad, on Friday, strongly reacted to the incident and demanded security for their children studying in the US. “It is not about their job but the threat to their lives that bothers us more now. After Donald Trump took over as the President of the US, the insecurity among parents has only increased. We are worried if we should even send our children to the US for education or work,” said Rajkumar M, president of the association.
 
 Members of the group are now planning to submit representations to concerned ministers, in the state and at the centre, to ensure safety of their children in the US. 
 
