MAYEM: In the lead up to the February 4 assembly polls, Mayem was witness to several political twists and turns, including   denying its sitting   and speaker Anant Shet the ticket to contest the polls, which is a first for any party here.

  was carved out in 1989 and since then has voted in either the MGP or the BJP, except for one occasion when   claimed the constituency. At the time it was BJP candidate Pravin Zantye’s father Harish who won it. 
 
 There are eight candidates in the fray for the Mayem seat: Pravin Zantye (BJP), Santosh Kumar Sawant (Congress), Subhash Kinalkar (NCP), Ajeetsingh Rane (AAP), Atmaram Gaonkar (GSM), and three independents, Ashok Anant Gaonkar, Deepkumar Mapari and Prabhakar Gaonkar. 
 
 While there are three contestants to watch out for - Zantye, Sawant and Atmaram - the principal battle, however, promises to play out between the   (BJP) and the Congress, with the former having a slight upper hand in the constituency even as the latter is struggling to regain lost foothold in Mayem.
 
 Both parties were faced with a dilemma when it came to selecting their Mayem candidate. 
 
 The BJP decided on Zantye, spurring its incumbent MLA, who won the Mayem seat for the party two time running, in 2007 and 2012. The party reasoned that a survey conducted by it had revealed that Shet’s popularity had taken a hit in a few areas of the constituency, while Zantye, it was found, had increased his popularity score. However, political observers have their own theory. They opine that Zantye managed to get the ticket through Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu.
 
 Congress, like the BJP, could not decide on its candidate and came up with a name at the final moment. The party ticket went to Sawant, who was so determined and confidant of contesting the polls that he commenced his election campaign a year ago. The only thing he was unsure about was the party and had even hobnobbed with the Bharatiya Bhasha Suraksha Manch (BBSM) on the hope of securing the Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) ticket. With Zantye, a close friend of Vishwajit Rane, getting the BJP ticket, Sawant got the Congress nomination over Congress block president Anand Naik and Congress general secretary Sunil Kawthankar. 
 
 The BJP had to contend with the ire of Shet’s supporters, till, finally, defence minister   found a way to negotiate around the resentment. At a special meeting convened at Shet’s residence at Kumarwado, Parrikar assured Shet and his supporters that he would not let them down and would go to any extent to protect Shet’s interest. The defence minister offered the MLA a corporation in exchange that he hold his peace and not revolt against the party and contest the elections.
 
 Now, Zantye’s fate depends on whether Shet and his supporters back him. Shet has not yet come out openly in Zantye’s support.
 
 Zantye has contested and lost in the Mayem constituency on two earlier occasions, both times against the BJP, once on the Congress ticket and once as an independent. This time his advantage lies in that he is contesting on the BJP ticket, coupled with his own vote bank on the area.
 
 A political observer said, “If Shet and the BJP Mayem madal work for Zantye then the results will be in favour of BJP, otherwise, BJP will have to struggle for the seat.” 
 
 Yet another permutation hindering Zantye’s victory is the sentiment among locals there that he is not from Mayem. Why should we elect a candidate who is from Bicholim and not from Mayem, is a common echo in the constituency. Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM), the political outfit of Goa RSS Prant, the rebel RSS faction, has also fielded its candidate. The party has commenced door-to-door campaigning and is trying it very best to convince the electorate to vote against the BJP.
 
 “GSM may hit the BJP’s, but to what extent will be known only after the elections results,” political observers said.
 
 Mayem has a large Maratha and Bhandari vote bank and one political observer said, “If the Marathas and Bhandaris come together and decide to back a candidate then it will ensure that candidate’s victory.” In the past, it has been seen that Bhandari vote has not consolidated in favour of any one candidate. 
 
 There are a few minority votes in the constituency, and whether the AAP candidate will lay claim to these votes makes for particularly interesting speculations, political observers added.
 
 
