With the advancement in technology, the cyber crimes are also on rise, particularly against women. Morphing their pictures and uploading them on social networking sites, stalking, e-mail spoofing and harassment are some ways in which they are abused. Many times, the hackers also siphon of funds from bank accounts of gullible citizens by retrieving their passwords.

 A strong legislation to deal with cyber crimes against women could curb the menace to some extent, according to   who was recently awarded a PhD by Nagpur University for her research ‘An analytical and critical study of the legislative provisions for protection of women from cyber crimes in India’. 
 
 The Amravati resident completed her theses under guide,   who is working with Wardha’s Yashwant Mahavidyalaya. Deshmukh says over half of the cases of cyber crime are not reported as women are generally shy in nature and don’t want to put their family into trouble apprehending social stigma. 
 
 In a chat with TOI, she explains about various aspects of cyber crime cases and how to deal with them.
 
 
 
 
 A. I was always inclined towards pursuing law and after graduating in Arts, I completed LLB and LLM from  . I developed interests in cyber law and subsequently pursued one-year diploma from the   in Mumbai in 2014. I practised at Amravati District Bar Association for six years before joining Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh College of Law as a lecturer. I participated in many national and international conferences and also presented papers on various topics like ‘Protection of women from cyber crimes in India — An overview’, ‘Metamorphosis of women through education (Challenges Opportunities and Achievement), ‘Women in field of science and technology’, ‘Cyber obscenity and dignity of women’, ‘Legal analysis of gender discrimination at workplace’ and others.
 
 
 
 
 A. There are many socio-psychological factors behind it. With the spread of education, even women have become techno-savvy and increasingly using several social networking platforms. They are also becoming lonelier, due to a busy life and, hence, getting addicted to networking sites. However, they usually ignore cases like online stalking and harassment from strangers. Women are generally emotional and hesitate to even talk about such cases to their family members. They reveal only after something major happens. Lack of awareness and ignorance about cyber-related laws also contribute to such crimes.
 
 
 
 
 A. It certainly has long-lasting, social and psychological effect on their psyche. Sometimes, many of them end their lives to avoid social boycott. The criminals are emboldened by their timid attitude and take them for granted. Failure of investigating agencies to detect the crime and judiciary not meting out stringent punishments to the offenders, adds to their woes.
 
 
 
 A. The enactment in Information Technology Act, 2000, was a major milestone in this regard, but lack of awareness about its provisions defeated the purpose. It was amended in 2008 by introducing eight new offences, of which Section 66A was later repealed. It included — publishing or transmitting material in electronic form containing sexually explicit material (Section 67A), child pornography (Section 67B), punishment for violating privacy or video voyeurism (Section 66E), cyber terrorism (Section 66F), punishment for identity theft (Section 66C) and cheating by personating using computer resource (Section 66D). Special provisions are made for protection of women and safeguard interests in labour, procedural, industrial and personal laws.
 
 
 
 
 A. Creating awareness on a massive scale about imminent threats due to cyber crimes is the only solution. There’s a need to regularly conduct seminars and meetings in schools, colleges and public places. Even the individuals should take care of not revealing their personal information and pictures on social networking platforms and stay away from the strangers. While using Facebook and other sites, they should take care that entire data is secured and resist from passing any lewd comments or using expletives. Also passwords shouldn’t be repeated and should be changed frequently.
 
 
 
 A. I had specially recommended the enactment of a specific legislation to deal with the issue which should be similar to what is prevalent in USA and UK. It should ensure not only granting of rights to women, but also imposing liabilities and responsibilities on service providers. Our judiciary too needs some training and infrastructure development. I had proposed a model legislation to effectively address the interest of all victims. There’s a need to adopt uniform law worldwide as cyber crime is not a just one country’s problems but a global threat. There is need to adopt specific laws on jurisdiction and international cooperation like European Convention on Cyber Crime, 2001.
 
