NEW DELHI: Senior   leader   on Monday accused the   police of radicalising Muslim youths and encouraging them to join the   by setting up a "bogus" website of the terror group.

 Singh claimed that the state police set up the website to trap Muslims youths and is "radicalising and encouraging them to become ISIS modules".
 
 He asked whether the Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had authorised the state police "to trap Muslim youths and encourage them to join the IS".
 
 "If he has then shouldn't he own the responsibility and resign? If he hasn't then shouldn't he enquire and punish those who are responsible for committing such a heinous crime (sic)," he tweeted.
 
 The Congress leader's comment drew sharp reaction from TRS, with Telangana Industries and IT minister K T Rama Rao demanding that Singh withdraw his remarks or provide evidence to back his claim.
 
 "Most irresponsible and reprehensible thing coming from a former CM (of Madhya Pradesh). Request you to withdraw these comments unconditionally or provide evidence," Rama Rao, son of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, tweeted.
 
 Later, talking to reporters on the issue in New Delhi, he asked if the Congress high command endorsed Singh's remarks.
 
 The Congress leader, who continues to be the party's general secretary in-charge of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana after being divested of the charge of Karnataka and Goa on Saturday, said on Twitter that it was after Telangana police's information "that MP police arrested those who were responsible for a bomb blast in a train in Shajapur district".
 
 "It also resulted in Saifullaha encounter in Kanpur the same day," he said.
 
 Telangana DGP Anurag Sharma said the Congress leader's comments would demoralise the police force and lower the image of personnel engaged in fighting anti-national forces.
 
 "Unfounded allegations from a senior, responsible leader will lower the morale and image of police engaged in fighting anti-national forces," Sharma said. 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
