NEW DELHI: Beas   is the cleanest, followed by Vishakhapatnam and Khammam, out of 407 stations in India, according to a survey released by the railways. Among the 75 bigger and busy railway stations, Visakhapatnam is on top, followed by   and Jammu.

 New Delhi station was ranked 39 among the most busy stations while Bangalore City is at 10th position, Hyderabad at 16th, Mumbai Central at 27th and Chennai Central at 49th rank. Interestingly, Anand Vihar (in Delhi) is at number five, just behind Vijayawada and ahead of Lucknow in the ranking of 75 busy stations.
 
 Among stations in the capital, Anand Vihar is at 10th position in overall ranking while Nizamuddin has bagged 74th, Old Delhi station 75th and at New Delhi station is way back at 139th rank.
 
 Stations at Jogbani, Madhubani and Sagauli — all in Bihar — are the dirtiest in the overall ranking. Among the most busy stations, Darbhanga (Bihar) was the dirtiest, followed by Bhopal and Ambala.
 
 The railway station in Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of PM Narendra Modi, was ranked at 14th position among busy stations while it managed to get 30th position in overall ranking. Gorakhpur, represented by UP CM Yogi Aditya Nath, is at 12th position (28th in overall ranking).
 
 The survey was carried out based on regular periodic third party audit by the Quality Council of India and feedback from passengers. Clean toilets at platforms, clean tracks and dustbins at stations were some of the criteria for judging railway stations for cleanliness. According to the survey, Guwahati, Varanasi, Mughalsarai and Hazrat Nizamuddin stations have shown tremendous improvement in comparison to the last survey,
 
 Among the zones, South East Central Railways, headquartered at Secunderabad, is the cleanest while North Frontier Railways, Guwahati, is the dirtiest. The survey was carried out for 407 stations, out of which 75 are in the A-1 category (most busy stations) which contribute more than Rs 50 crore in passenger earnings every year and 332 are in the A category which earn between Rs 6 crore to Rs 50 crore.
 
 
 
 
