COIMBATORE: After a gap of 90 days,   and its catchment areas received rain on Wednesday. The  , which was below  , rose a little after the rain. Nearly 120mm of rain was recorded in the dam and another 27mm was recorded in the foothills of Muthikulam. 

 “The water has begun flowing in the   and into the intake tower. We are hopeful that after two more such spells, the water situation in the dam will improve,” said a corporation official. More rain is forecast in the area for Thursday and through the week. 
 
 It last rained in the dam on December 14 and 15. “But even then, it was just a few millimetres. On December 14, 6mm rain was recorded and on December 15, 15mm was recorded. A few days ago, when it had rained heavily 3mm was recorded. But it is only on Wednesday that we received heavy rain,” said an assistant engineer of   corporation. 
 
 It has rained in some parts of the city as well. In the western part of the city, heavy downpour accompanied by thunder and lightning was witnessed in areas such as Vadavalli, Veerakeralam, Vedapatti, R S Puram, Thadagam and surroundings. “It has been raining in some parts of the city since the past one week,” said water managers. 
 
 Corporation officials said they were working on reducing water logging in the city by using water pumps and other measures. “Five years ago, after heavy rain several residential parts of the city would face water logging. Residences at Avarampalayam and other locations at Ganapathy used to face water logging. But we have constructed drains in all these locations and cleared the garbage in the storm water drains. In some locations such as the Lanka corner, near the railway station and Kikani bridge, we are conducting some studies with private companies and consultants. We will come up with a permanent solution for the water logging issue in these low-lying areas as well,” said a senior corporation engineer. 
 
 The rainfall has cheered residents. Even if it does not rain in the city, it is okay. We want it to rain in the dams and catchment areas. Only then the water supply issue would get resolved, said Mahesh Kumar, a resident. 
 
 December 14, 2016
 
 December 15, 2016
 
 March 15, 2017
 
 Rainfall
 
 6mm
 
 15mm
 
 120mm
 
