The city woke to the news of the gruesome death of a 17-year-old, who lost his life early on Sunday morning after a race with his two underage friends went awry. This isn’t the first time that such an incident has come to light, and seeing underage kids popping wheelies on city roads, even during heavy traffic hours, is not uncommon. Sunday’s incident, however, throws up a few questions — who is responsible and what can be done to ensure that such accidents are not repeated?
SNEAKING OUT CARS IS NORMAl: Teens
 Jenny Kenneth (name changed) and  , both 15, say that it is common for teenagers to steal their parents’ car and bike keys, and sneak the vehicles out when they are not around. “I know many between the ages of 14 and 18 years who do this. There is a fairly deserted road near my house, which is where they race. Sometimes, they even drive to Nandi Hills,” says Jenny, who adds that parents are often not aware of this. So, why do teens take the risk of getting caught, or worse, being in an  ? Savyasachi says, “There are no grounds as such in the city where we can go and play. Races give a sense of adventure. The fact that you’re doing something that you shouldn’t adds to the thrill.”
 PARENTAL INVOLVEMENT IS KEY
 When asked what can be done to deter teenagers from indulging in such dangerous acts, both Jenny and Savyasachi say that parental involvement is key. “Parents should maintain open channels of communication with their children. When there is friction between parents and the child, the child can, say, sneak out the car as a result of a fight — just to go against the parents. But if you have a good bond with your child, he/she will be more responsive and responsible when you tell them right from wrong,” say Jenny.
 EDUCATION BEGINS AT HOME: Parents
 No matter how much a child is taught about road safety in school or through other platforms, their parents play the biggest role. For instance, many parents don’t see the harm in teaching their underage kids how to drive within their apartment complexes or on roads close to home. This can be dangerous as children may feel that they are adept drivers, thereby not hesitating while driving by themselves on city roads. When   pointed this out to a man in her apartment complex off  , she was surprised when she was asked to back off. “Once, a man was sitting pillion while his son, who was in Class 5, was riding a two-wheeler. When I honked, the child lost balance of the bike and his father had to take control. When this happened a few times, I raised my concern on the apartment complex’s social media page. Instead of backing me, the other residents asked me what my problem was and asked me to ‘live and let live’. If that child loses control and comes under the wheels of my car, then it is my problem. Instead of advising their children to wait till they are old enough to drive, they get defensive when you point something like this out. No one takes road safety seriously,” she says.
 WEAK LAWS AT FAULT
 Abhishek Goyal, DCP Traffic (East) points out that the legal penalties for offenders on the road are weak and weaker for juveniles. “The laws for such cases, especially in cases involving juveniles, are limited. In most cases, there is hardly any imprisonment. The fines for offences like drag racing is limited to about a few hundred rupees and, at most times, if the 
 culprit is a first-time offender, he is let out on bail. There is a proposal to increase the punishment in instances that are booked under the Motor Vehicle Act and this is currently pending in the  . We are hoping the revised penalties will ensure such offences are curbed.” 
 However, he points out that cases such as the one on Sunday morning are rare. “Bengaluru, unlike other cities, does not have too many instances of drag racing or wheelies. This incident has come as an aberration, as it happened way past midnight, at a time when things are under check and there is little checking assuming things are under control. In the past one year, there have been 70-odd cases involving bikes, but this is the first time that we have seen a case involving high-end cars. We will study the situation and assess what measures to take to control this problem,” adds Abhishek. 
 
 
