BHOPAL: The state government’s plan to build a ‘Anda Cell’ in Bhopal   to create a high-security zone for dreaded criminals, including terrorists seem to have stuck in administrative hurdles after seven months of its announcement.

 The plan was to make a fully secured prison like famous   in Pune after eight SIMI undertrial activists escaped from the high-security Central jail in Bhopal after killing a head constable past midnight October 30, 2016. They were subsequently killed in an alleged encounter on the city outskirts on October 31. 
 
 After the jail-break and encounter, the state government had ordered a judicial inquiry headed by a retired High Court judge. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced to build the ‘Anda Cell’ to strengthen the security.
 
 “Security measures in jails should be made stringent and jail manuals should be followed strictly. The government will plan a high-security, high-tech jail like Anda Cell for which a place will be selected soon,” Chouhan had said at a review meeting on jail security on December 19 last year. 
 
 Ironically, after seven months, the plan to build a high security cell is yet to take shape. There was no initiative from the jail department as announced by the CM. Officials in the Central Jail claimed to have sent a proposal for the same after surveying high-security areas in Delhi and Mumbai jails.
 
 “Select jail guards were also sent to Gurugram for screening test for NSG commandos. Of these, 14 guards cleared the test and were ready to undergo tough training in Bhopal and Manesar in Haryana,” officials said. 
 
 Sources said the proposal to build ‘Anda Cell' actually got stuck at the finance department for approval, where officials expressed their inability to provide adequate fund to the project. Some officials in the jail department were also unwilling to take up the plan due to lack of interest despite having adequate funds.
 
 “We sent a proposal to the jail department and waiting for an administrative approval for the same,” said director general of police (DGP) Jails Sanjay Chaudhary.
 
 He said the department made a detailed plan for the project and would complete it in the prescribed time period, if approved. 
 
 On the issue of project delay, jail minister Kusum Mehdele said a proposal was sent to the finance department. However, the jail department is waiting for an approval.
 
 “We are keen to have this project completed at the earliest. The plan is pending with the finance department for a final nod,” Mehdele told TOI. 
 
 Officials said this would be third ‘Anda Cell’ in the country after the Yerwada Jail and the   in Maharashtra. The jail would be like an egg or oval shape enclosure closed from the roof, where criminals would be monitored through high-tech gadgets.
 
 The government’s apathy to the project was reflected from the pace of work. The judicial inquiry into Bhopal jail-break was initially supposed to give its report in three months of the incident, but it was given a six-month extension after it failed to submit its findings within the stipulated time. Building Anda Cell’ in near future also looks difficult till the jail department gets a final nod, sources said.
 
