Mumbai: Newly appointed   deputy governor   has called for new solutions for resolving stressed loans in public sector banks, which now amount for a sixth of total loans. The deputy governor has also warned that recapitalisation of bad banks amounts to a “heads I win, tails taxpayer loses” solution and has called for asset sales, mergers and divestment as alternatives.

 Warning the government against using existing solutions, Acharya said, “We can choose status quo, but this would be insanity, doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results, as Albert Einstein put it. It would risk a Japanese or an Italian style outcome.” He was addressing bankers at a technology conference organised by the   here.
 
 The fresh solutions put forward by Acharya to address bad debts include setting up a private asset management company to address   in sectors such as metals, engineering, telecom and textiles. In addition, a ‘National’ AMC would be required to deal with loans where the issue is not just one of excess capacity but also of economically unviable assets in the short to medium term.
 
 In a straight-talking speech reminiscent of former governor  , Acharya minced no words to attack special dispensation in classifying loans as bad. “Concessions in recognising losses just end up being a strategy of ‘kicking the can down the road’ and leaving them as legacy assets for the next management team to deal with,” said Acharya.
 
 He added that the government needs to undertake some surgical restructuring to consolidate and strengthen bank balance sheets so that private capital will come in at better valuations. “It might have to accept that it is best to let some banks shrink over time.   should also be on the table. Historically, significant restructuring of stressed assets has almost always involved significant bank restructuring,” said Acharya. He said that at one end,   banks are running balance sheets in a perennial need of recapitalisation from the government, and shying away from lending to potentially healthier industrial credits. 
 
 At the other end, sectors with the most stressed assets have excess capacity relative to current or near-term utilisation and no sight of immediate pick-up in prospects. “The end result has been a silent atrophy of the true potential of these assets.”
 
 
