AMARAVATI:   for the Nandyal bypoll is expected to continue until the   issues a notification as   in the constituency are refusing to bury the hatchet and work together. The TDP has decided not to take chances over the issue as the   could have an impact on the overall   in the state.

 According to sources, the TDP leadership has decided to take another fortnight to defuse the tensions between the rival groups by negotiating with them. The party is hopeful of ironing out the differences between former legislator Silpa Mohan Reddy and tourism minister Bhuma Akhilapriya by the time they go into the poll mood. The Nandyal seat fell vacant following the sudden death of sitting legislator Bhuma Nagireddy last month.
 
 Tension escalated following the opposition YSRCP's decision to contest the bypoll. As per tradition followed in AP, the main political parties do not field candidates in case by-election is necessitated following the death of a sitting legislator to pave way for the unanimous election of kin of the deceased. YSRCP did not field a nominee in Nandigama and Tirupati where TDP legislators died soon after their election in 2014. But YSRCP has now decided to go to polls as Nandyal seat technically belongs to the party as Nagireddy won the election on YSRCP ticket.
 
 Both Silpa and Bhuma groups promised to go by party supremo N Chandrababu Naidu's decision following the day-long negotiations held by Union minister Sujana Chowdary and state party president Kala Venkata Rao on Saturday.
 
 But it was back to square one within 24 hours as both groups claimed that they are going to take the field. Strong claimant for the ticket, Silpa Mohan Reddy met chief minister and party supremo Chandrababu Naidu at his residence on Sunday and held discussions for about an hour. He is reported to have placed the ground level situation before the party chief. He is wary of losing the cadre base if he is denied the opportunity to contest.
 
 Akhilapriya is hopeful of getting a ticket too, with sources saying she has proposed her cousin Bramhananda Reddy's name for the seat.
 
