Nagpur: Sixteen years after the central government’s order, the state government has finally issued a notification to set-up a Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) in every district. The district collector will be the chairperson of the 15-member body.

 TOI was the first to report about the state animal husbandry department’s proposal to set-up SPCA. In a reply to the petition filed by animal welfare activist Ankita Shah before the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, the department had stated that the proposal was cleared by the law and judiciary department and was waiting for state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ approval.
 
 The notification, released on Tuesday, states that “it is expedient to establish   and to appoint managing committee of for implementation of provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960”.
 
 In 2001, the Union government had directed all states to establish SPCA in each district within six months from the date of commencement of rules. The society's main intention is to prevent cruelty to animals and execute welfare schemes of Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI). Despite this, the society was not formed in most of the districts of the state. 
 
 Ajay Marathe, honorary animal welfare officer of a state-level committee, had filed a petition regarding SPCA in 2013 in Bombay High Court. “Out of 36 districts of the state, hardly seven including Chandrapur, Amravati, Ratnagiri, Osmanabad, Dhule, Thane and Satara have formed the society. Among them, only two districts were allotted a government land to run animal shelter,” said Marathe.
 
 As per the directives of union government, state government has to provide adequate land and other facilities to the society for constructing infirmaries and animal shelter. 
 
 “In some cities, NGOs were working as SPCA but there was no umbrella body. Due to this, animal rights laws could never be implemented properly,” said Shah.
 
 The formation of SPCA can also help Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) save public money which is spent on animal shelters and birth control operations. “The society gets funds from ministry of environment and forests and can also avail it from AWBI. Now since the notification has been released, the local administration should immediately start the procedure of setting-up the committee,” added Shah.
 
 The society is also expected to curb the increasing number of animal cruelty cases. “Public can directly approach the society with such grievances. SPCA has to take up such complaints,” said Shah.
 
 
