GREATER NOIDA: Home minister   did finally visit  , about 16 months after the lynching of Mohammed Akhlaq, but made no mention of it or BJP’s stance on the issue.

 Instead, speaking at a political rally at the   village on Wednesday, Singh chose to focus only on BJP’s campaign themes, the cross-LoC surgical strikes and demonetisation.
 
 “I am coming here after a long time. UP is India’s largest state and it decides the direction of Indian politics,” Singh said. had it not been for the thumping victory of   in UP in the 2014 parliamentary election, he added, Narendra Modi’s government would not have been formed at the Centre.
 
 He said that with the BJP government’s formation at the Centre, a message had been sent to the world that India was not weak any more.
 
 Recalling former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s words that “one could change friends but not neighbours”, Singh said that since his swearing-in ceremony, Modi had made repeated attempts towards establishing friendship with Pakistan. “It is a continuing effort on our part but Pakistan does not relent,” he said.
 
 Mentioning the surgical strikes by the Indian government in retaliation for the Uri attack, Singh said that India had sent a message that although “Our policy has never been expansionist, but if it is attacked, we will not spare anyone. Bharat kisi ko chhedhta nahi hai lekin agar Bharat ko koi chhedhe, to Bharat use chhodta nahi hai,” he said.
 
 “People can lie, but not numbers,” Singh said, targeting the Samajwadi Party government in the state. “When SP came to power, the GDP growth of the state was 5.6% but after their five years of governance, it has come down to 3.6%. Even agricultural growth has fallen to 1.8-2.8%,” he said.
 
 Now infamous for the September 28, 2015, murder of Akhlaq by a mob that battered him to death because they thought he had eaten beef, Bisada is the gateway to the Rajput-dominated Saatha-Chaurasi region of western UP. The region comprises 144 villages (saath-60 and chaurasi-84) spread in the Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Meerut and Gautam Budh Nagar constituency areas.
 
 Singh recalled decisions taken by him when he was chief minister of UP and claimed credit for having reduced interest rates to farmers from 14-18% to 8-8.5%. “Later, when I became the BJP national president in 2006, I got the interest rates reduced in states,” he said, adding BJP would waive debts of farmers if it came to power in UP.
 
 The minister’s son, Pankaj Singh, is BJP’s candidate from the Noida constituency in the upcoming election.
 
 
