Nagpur: While grazers and illicit fishermen can have an easy access inside Ambazari reserve forest, the department slammed the doors on genuine bird watchers and nature lovers, who play key role in conservation. Ambazari forest is a hotspot destination for bird watchers as there are 263 recorded bird species in the area. The bird habitats has also helped to know strong ecology of the area. Neither Nagpur chief conservator of forests (CCF) Sanjeev Gaur nor deputy conservator (DyCF) G Mallikarjuna responded to repeated calls on the issue. In-charge ACF Vinayak Umale too was not sure whether the entry to bird watchers has been banned. Forest sources said birding is allowed from 6am to 10am. However, bird watchers complain that since the last 8-10 days, they have been denied entry from all gates. Most of the bird watchers work in the service sector and hence devote time for birding during weekends. On Saturday at 6.30am, many bird watchers had to return as they were not allowed entry from both gates on Wadi and Hingna road sides. Earlier, birders were given entry between 6am and 10am. Assistant professor with department of mass communication and avid birder Moiz Mannan Haque, who was denied entry, termed the forest department’s move as absurd. “Gorewada is also a reserve forest and entry is allowed there with a nominal fee. Why can’t it be replicated in Ambazari. Bird watchers can also help keep track any illicit activities in the forest,” Haque said. In January, the Nagpur division spent lakhs on creating a special bird trail by displaying signages and posters of birds found in the region. Forest officials also announced plans to declare 758 hectare Ambazari forest as an open classroom for bird watching and nature education. Contrarily, it is not allowing bird watchers inside. “This is birding time as many new species are spotted at Ambazari backwaters. Birders are regular visitors to the lake to explore these species, observe their behaviour and record them. We were shocked after entry was denied by the forest guard,” said Amit Tiwari, a student. “When we went at the NMC pumping station gate, the guard diverted to Gate No. 4 on Hingna Road side near hot mix plant. When we reached there, forest guard told us officials have banned entry, without specifying any reasons,” said avid bird watcher Danish Sheikh. Another bird watcher Nishad Meshram feared bird watchers are being banned as they exposed poor plantation works, felling of trees for biodiversity park, grazing etc in the past. “This is like taking revenge,” Meshram added. Aniruddha Bhagat, a bird watcher, said recently a committee has been set up to on Ambazari forest works. “The panel should look into the issue. Instead of resolving the problems highlighted by bird watchers, the department is banning entry to them,” said Bhagat.