LUCKNOW: The   project which was once started amid much fanfare in Lucknow and whose launch was earlier scheduled on March 27 is already facing a two-month delay in its commercial launch as it awaits approval from the commissioner of Metro railway safety ( ). The   has to begin commercial operation on priority section of 8.5 km from Transportnagar to Charbagh. 

 The launch of Metro has already missed two deadlines — one set by the earlier SP government on March 27 and the other one set as mid of May 2017 — by the Aditya Nath Yogi-led government. Though UP’s housing and urban planning department claims that Metro’s civil work is almost complete, its contractor Larsen and Toubro is still giving final touches to the eight Metro stations on the priority section — which would be unveiled during the launch. 
 
 Though RDSO had given approval to the project on March 28 and   Rail Corporation (LMRC) had forwarded it to CMRS for clearance on March 30, the team is still waiting for his reply. Sources in   told TOI, “It has been two months since we put up the report before CMRS. They have been raising queries from time to time while we have been answering them all but we haven’t got any green signal from them till date.”
 
 LMRC said it is only after CMRS nod that the report will be sent to the   for final nod to Lucknow Metro’s launch. After railway board’s approval, LMRC will seek CMRS’ permission again to visit the Metro site and inspect train’s features like speed, signalling, safety of passengers etc both during static and mobile situation. Once he gives his final nod, only then Lucknow Metro would be ready for commercial operation. 
 
 Also, one of the other major reasons behind delay is non-arrival of fourth train at its depot in Transportnagar. The government had asked to initiate Metro launch only when at least four sets of train arrive in Lucknow. But till date, LMRC has received only three Metro trains. Though the fourth train set has been dispatched from Sri City near Chennai on May 22, it would take at least 12 days to reach Lucknow. 
 
 
