AURANGABAD: Around 174 drivers roped in through a private contractor in the civic body on Friday resorted to dharna andolan here at Central Naka against delay in  . As most of these drivers worked for the solid waste management system, the five-hour agitation disrupted the city’s solid waste management system. 

 Unattended heaps of   were spotted at many places in the old city, Shahganj, Seven Hills, parts of Cidco Hudco and other areas. Garbage was also seen at many collection points in the city. 
 
 The contract workers were supposed to ply garbage carrying trucks, tippers, hook loaders, skip loaders and auto rickshaws deployed for the solid waste management. 
 
 On an average, the drivers dump about 150 to 160 truckloads of garbage every day in the Naregaon dumping yard, disposing over 450 tonne of garbage. 
 
 Bhaskar Adhave, Cidco unit president of   said that the workers do not wish to work as they have not received the salaries from December 2016. “But neither the municipal authorities or the contractors are paying any heed to the grave issue of the drivers. We want the municipal body to the take a decision on the matter,” he said. 
 
 A driver who preferred not to be quoted said that the cash-strapped municipal body is responsible for disrupting the system. “The authorities should release the payment of the contractor on time so that he can give salaries to the workers. But delay on part of the municipal authorities has pushed the drivers into financial crises. Most of us do not have money to by groceries and other daily needs,” he said. 
 
 After the municipal authorities assured the agitators that they would release the payments by Friday evening, the drivers resumed their duties. 
 
 U G Shirsat, deputy engineer in technical section, AMC confirmed that the contract drivers were protesting for their salaries. “But they are not supposed to collect the payment directly from the municipal body and thus we have asked the concerned contractor to resolve the matter,” he said, adding that the municipal body would clear payments to the contractor by Friday evening. 
 
 There about 258 drivers working in various departments in the   (AMC) out of which 174 have been assigned through a contractor, 19 are on daily wages while 65 are permanent employees. 
 
 
