NEW DELHI: Ahead of the   polls and after many a flip-flop and speculation, former cricketer and Parliamentarian   today 
  today, ANI reported.

 Soon after joining  , Sidhu tweeted, "Beginning of a new inning. On the front foot........ Punjab, Punjabiyat and every Punjabi must win !!!" (SIC)
 
 
  It was earlier speculated that Sidhu might ally with Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party.
 
  
  The 53-year-old former parliamentarian quit the BJP in September 2016. At the time, he alleged that he had been sidelined by the party, which had forced him to surrender his parliamentary seat of Amritsar for Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, who eventually lost the constituency in 2014. Two months after Sidhu quit the BJP, his wife, 
  . 
 
  
  Earlier today, Sidhu reportedly met Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi, ANI said.
 
 "Congress welcomes   into Congress family and we thank Congress Vice President for his visionary approach in bringing together like-minded people on common platform under the Congress umbrella," Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said in a statement.
 
  
  "Known for straight taking, ideological commitment to the cause of nationalism as also wit and humour, we are certain that Congress party will be immensely strengthened in Punjab and elsewhere with the entry of Sidhu," said the statement posted on the party twitter handle.
 
 On Thursday, it was reported that Sidhu had met with Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi to discuss the details of his formal induction to the party.
 
 Over the past few months, the cricketer-turned-politician has caused a lot of speculation regarding which political party he would join ahead of the Punjab assembly elections.
 
 The Congress has so far released names of 100 candidates, although it still has to select candidates for the remaining 17 seats for elections to the 117-member assembly. The name of the candidate from Amritsar East constituency is yet to be announced. The polls are to be held on February 4.
 
 
