COIMBATORE: Shallots or  , an  , has become dearer in the past few months. With the  , like that of other vegetables,  , the price of the vegetable has shot up by almost 150% in the past two months. With a kilo of shallots now costing almost Rs 100 per kg, households which used the vegetable generously are forced to rework their food budgets.

 Ironically, the price of big onions has been slowly but constantly dropping. Vegetable vendors attribute it to the arrival of excess stocks from Pune. 
 
 Shallots, that is an essential part of many south Indian dishes like sambar, poriyal, bhajjis and other non-vegetarian dishes, used to cost as less as Rs 25 per kg three months ago; it now costs Rs 100 per kg. “The price went up to Rs 40 in March. From then, it increased to Rs 70 by mid-April and Rs 90 in the beginning of May,” said G A Wahab, secretary of the traders association and president of the Saibaba Colony Vegetable Vendors Association. “The wholesale rate for the vegetable itself is Rs 90 per kg,” he said. “This is mainly due to a shortfall in supply of the vegetable. We don’t know if farmers are hoarding it, or if there genuinely is such a big drop in harvest,” he added.
 
  farmers admit there is a shortfall in the supply cycle, but attribute it to a combination of factors, including the drought and very low prices for the vegetable last year. “Last year, shallots fetched hardly Rs 15 to Rs 20 per kg, and even that did not find buyers,” said a farmer, T Kadhiresan. “So, almost two-thirds of the shallot farmers opted to cultivate other vegetables like beans, spinach and tomato,” he said. “While that itself reduced the price, the drought like conditions and the climate reduced the yield by less than half,” he said. “Shallots need a lot of mist and no heat during its growing stages, but without that last year the yield dropped from the usual five tonnes an acre to two tonnes an acre,” he added.
 
 With the prices likely to remain high, many housewives have begun reworking their budgets. “I used to spend Rs 500 a week for vegetables, but now it has gone upto Rs 650,” complained Aashrita Kanwal, a resident of Saibaba Colony. “Besides this, I have also begun reducing my usage of shallots and am using onions instead,” she said. 
 
 That seems to be the way forward because   prices have begun dropping. While the vegetable costs Rs 9 in the wholesale market, it costs Rs 12 to Rs 20 in the retail market. “It has dropped by 0.50 p to Rs 2 per kg, because stocks from Pune have begun pouring in,” said Wahab. 
 
 
