LUCKNOW: It started at dawn in the backdrop of the magnificent Safed Baradari as the first rays of the sun coloured the skies above and   maestro   at the peak of his musical prowess on the stage as the third day of the   festival began on Sunday.

 This was the second such concert, and the sitar exponent of Etawah Gharana regaled the early morning audience with his raga rendition. Last year, Shubha Mudgal had performed in a pre-dawn concert at the festival.
 
 As the music stopped, it was time for the much awaited   home-cooked food festival that opened with 40 dishes and ended within the same number of minutes, as gourmets rushed to partake of the culinary delights. The favourites on the menu like every year comprised laal mirch ka qeema to roasted raan, mutton ki nahari and pasanda to adrakh gosht, sarson ki machhli to shab-degh and regional specialities like sarson ka saag, marwari thali, Bundeli kachauri and Kashmiri kaleji among others, there was something for everyone, apparent from the rush at all stalls. The food festival also offered delights like palak and channe ka halwa. 
 
 ##Baitbaazi: Having revived the age-old Urdu poetry competition for the festival each year, the game of a verbal duel in Urdu poetry included a new spectrum on Sunday. This year for the first time, students of two of the oldest educational institutions of Lucknow- Karaat and Islamia College, played the first round of the friendly game. The second round in keeping with the festival’s tradition was played between the teams of Naseem Iqtedar Ali and Sabiha Anwar. 
 
 ##Goa homes: Heritage homes in Lucknow could be saved and retained in the form of heritage hotels as commerce is a great way to maintain such falling pieces of history, said  , Goa-based architect, after his talk on ‘The story of Indo-Portuguese’. While daCunha spoke about the restoration work of old Portuguese homes in  , he elaborate on the characteristics of the architecture. 
 
 ##Edu champ: The day concluded with the play, ‘Haan Mai Savitri Bai Phule’ performed by Sushma Deshpande who is also its writer and director. Based on the life and work of educationist Phule, the powerful solo play was originally written in Marathi as ‘Vhay, Mee Savitri Bai’. The play tells the story of her life from her perspective. In the last 25 years, there have been over 3,000 shows of the play in India and abroad.
 
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 Today At Sanatkada
 
 11am : Schoolchildren heritage walk. Stories by Mama Suranya: by author Suranya Aiyar and Himanshu Bajpai
 
 3:30pm: The other Lucknow and Doosra Lucknow author Prof Nadeem Hasnain in coversation with Radhika Bordia and Himanshu Bajpai
 
 4pm: Kids corner: storytelling by Jaya Iyer
 
 5pm : Qissagoi: Reha'ish in Awadh homes, Masroor Jahan in conversation with Saira Mujtaba
 
 7:30pm: Chand Roz Aur Meri Jaan based on letters between Faiz and Alys by Salima Raza and Banwari Taneja 
 
 
