PUNE:Khadakwasla dam, a major water source for the city, reached maximum capacity on Saturday for the first time this monsoon season. As a result, water was released into Mutha river at the rate of 13,981 cusecs, compelling authorities to close the riverside road and Baba Bhide bridge to traffic on Saturday afternoon.

 This caused snarls in core city areas and on Kelkar road, Pulachi Wadi, Karve Road,   and Deccan Gymkhana, as vehicles spilt over onto these roads. Onlookers crowding Z bridge to see the swirling Mutha worsened matters by haphazardly parking their vehicles. 
 
 Traffic was jammed also on Tilak Road,   and near Jnana Prabodhini. 
 
 After water stock in Khadakwasla rose to 95% on Friday, the irrigation department had started releasing water from Khadakwasla at the rate of 2,000 cusecs. Overnight rainfall led to further inflow of water into the reservoir. On Saturday morning, the discharge was increased to 3,420 cusecs. In the afternoon, it was further raised to 13,981 cusecs, causing the river to swell. 
 
 “Attention Punekars! Discharge from khadawasala dam will be increased in Mutha river up to 14000 cusecs after 2 PM. #punerains #pmc (sic),” tweeted   on its Twitter page, and urged the public not to venture to riverside road or park vehicles there. 
 
 However, the few cars already on the road were rendered immobile when the water overflowed from the Mutha river. 
 
 Irrigation officials said the amount of water discharged can go up further if rainfall in catchments continues. “We will have to discharge more water if inflow of water in reservoirs continues. We have so far not initiated discharge from Panshet and Varasgaon,” officials said.
 
 Meanwhile, collective water storage in four dams in Khadakwasla irrigation circle increased to 19.9 thousand million cubic feet (TMC, 68.26%) on Saturday. Stock in Panshet went up to 84% (8.98 TMC), Varasgaon at 57% (7.37 TMC) and Temghar at 42% (1.58). Temghar recorded the highest rainfall, at over 1,817mm. Panshet and Varasgaon registered around 1,200mm rainfall each since June. Saturday’s collective stock of 19.90 TMC was about 3 TMC higher than last year’s stock of 16.36 TMC in the same period. 
 
 The irrigation department said the water released from Khadakwasla is flowing into Bhima river and further into Ujani dam. Water release was also initiated from other major dams in Pune district, including Mulshi, Vadivale, Chaskaman and Andra. 
 
 84% stock in Pavana
 
 Water stock in Pavana increased to 84.29% on Saturday. The irrigation department said that water was not discharged on Saturday but did rule it out if the stock in the dam increases beyond the 90% mark. The stock reached 7.17 TMC on Saturday. The catchment of the dam so far has registered 1,850mm rainfall.
 
