NEW DELHI: Umesh Yadav,   and Ravichandran Ashwin took three wickets each as India bowled out Australia for 137 runs in their second innings on the third day of the fourth Test at the HPCA Stadium in Dharamsala on Monday.

 Australian second innings capitulated dramatically in front of some superb bowling by the Indians. The Aussies managed to set a 106-run target, out of which 19 runs have already been knocked off by the hosts' openers Lokesh Rahul and Murali Vijay.
 
 Glenn Maxwell was the first Australian wicket to fall in the third session of the day when he offered no shot to an Ashwin delivery that was spinning back from a fullish length. Umpire Marais Erasmus gave it out and Maxwell opted for the review. Maxwell had offered his pad without playing a shot, the impact didn't matter when a batsman does that and the decision of the on field umpire stayed. Maxwell top scored for Australia in the second innings with a 45-run knock.
 
 Jadeja then dismissed Pat Cummins and Steve O'Keefe in his consecutive overs before Umesh had   caught by Murali Vijay at second slip. Ashwin then trapped   plumb in front to end the Australian innings. 
 
 A superb display of both pace and spin bowling by the Indians saw Australia losing five wickets in the second session to be at 92/5 at tea.
 
 Umesh gave India the first breakthrough when he had David Warner (6) caught behind by   off a good length delivery. Warner, who was dropped in the previous over by Karun Nair at third slip off Bhuvneshwar Kumar, was all at sea against some hostile bowling by the Indian pacers. This was the sixth time that Umesh dismissed Warner; second most batsman dismissed by him after Shaun Marsh (8 times).
 
 Bhuvneshwar then got the prized wicket of   when the Australian captain played on a delivery onto his stumps. Smith started off in his innings with his trademark flicks and looked set for another big score till he opted to pull a delivery from outside off stump instead of cutting it. Smith, one short of 500 runs this series, got a bottom edge and the ball went on to hit the stumps.
 
  was peppered with short deliveries and such was the intensity by the Indian pacers that the Australian opener was forced to make an error and he was squared up by a brilliant delivery by Umesh that was just short of a length and rose onto the chest to take the edge for Wriddhiman Saha to do the rest.
 
 Peter Handscomb and Maxwell added 56 runs for the fourth wicket before a superb catch by Rahane at first slip broke the resolute stand. The edge induced by Ashwin flew to Rahane's right but the ball stuck in and he used his left to cup it in quickfire time.
 
 Jadeja struck in the next over when he had Shaun Marsh caught by Cheteshwar Pujara at short leg at the stroke of tea.
 
 Earlier, Jadeja scored a fine half-century to help India overhaul Australia's first innings lead as the hosts were 332 all out at lunch.
 
 Nathan Lyon took 5/92 as India secured a 32-run lead over Australia thanks to Jadeja and Wriddhiman Saha.
 
 Pat Cummins tested Jadeja with sheer pace and bounce at the start of Day 3. Jadeja's start was scratchy but he hung in there and gradually got his eye in, fended off Cummins' bouncers and was more than aware to cash in on anything pitched up and came up with an elegant straight drive that went screaming past the fast outfield for four on the first ball of his second over of the day. Jadeja broke the shackles by hitting a six off Nathan Lyon's first over of the day. The Aussies looked clearly rattled and verbals were exchanged first between Josh Hazlewood and Jadeja and then between Wade and Jadeja, who was not the one to stay quiet and gave it back only to be calmed down by the umpires.
 
 Last Test centurion Saha, who was dropped on 9 by Matt Renshaw at first slip off Cummins on Day 2, underlined his importance to the team and reached 1000 Test runs during his match-saving stand with Jadeja. The Aussies could do nothing except show their frustration and a couple of words came from Hazlewood in his follow through.
 
 Jadeja was ably assisted by Saha as the duo added 96 precious runs for the seventh wicket - a stand that clearly frustrated the Aussies as Jadeja went on to score his seventh Test fifty, his second of the series. Cummins gave Jadeja a torrid time with his bouncers but after getting his eye in, the Indian left-hander smashed a four and a six off the short deliveries in one over after getting hit on the helmet.
 
 Jadeja lost his wicket when he edged a Cummins delivery onto his stumps as the Aussie had to come round the wicket for the breakthrough and pulled off a bluff by bowling the wide length ball after bowling short for a long time. Jadeja, expecting a bouncer, went for it without moving his feet away from the body and got a thick inside edge back onto the stumps. Jadeja hit four sixes and four fours in his 63-run knock.
 
 Saha batted with great application and determination to take India to safety before fending off a nasty bouncer from Cummins over second slip for Australian captain Steve Smith to take a brilliant diving catch. Saha scored 31 runs with the help of two boundaries.
 
 Australia made a strong comeback in the last half hour of the session as Lyon registered his ninth five-wicket haul, but India took the lead, however slender it may be.
 
 
 India 332 and 19/0 (Rahul 13*) vs Australia (300 and 137) at stumps on Day 3
 
