KOLKATA: The words of American writer Washington Irving "there is an endearing tenderness in the love of a mother to a son that transcends all other affections of the heart" holds true for this mother who is ready to sacrifice her own life for her stepson.

  got married to a widower   in 1988. Pradip had a 8-year-old son   from first marriage but that didn't mattered for Jyotirani as she had accepted him as her own son. 
 
 Everything was fine until Pradip and Jyotirani got their son married in 2011. The elderly couple was now wishing for a peacefull and calm life but that never happened. Their son changed and along with his wife (their daughter-in-law) started pressurising Jyotirani and Pradip for money. And even at one point of time Pradip gave his son Rs 25 lakhs for starting his own business but he misused the money and again resorted to put presure on his parents.
 
 Unable to cope up with this tremendous mental agony Pradip commited suicide.
 
 Even after this tragic incident, when Jyotirani discovered the suicide note of her deceased husband she took it away as she was well aware that the note will land her son and his wife in jail.
 
 Meanwhile, police investigation started in the case and she accepted all allegations made by her stepson and his wife but never revealed anything about her husband's suicide note. 
 
 Based on the son's allegations, police detained Jyotirani and after being intensely questioned repeatedly she was forced to spill the beans. The cops they were able to discover Pradip's sucide note and after condducting forensic tests handwriting on the note was verified.
 
 Finally, both Sudip Roy and his wife was arrested by the police.
 
 Despite of all this, Jyotirani, resident of Santoshpur hospital link road is still not ready to let her son suffer. She arranged a lawyer for her son and also visits Survey park Police station regularly to ensure that the cops don't oppose the bail claim of her dearest son. 
 
 Report: Amit Chakraborty
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
