GURUGRAM: The   is likely to take up the appeal for vacation of the stay order over   of   in Gwalpahari, submitted by residents of Gurgaon.

 Vaishali Rana Chandra and Sharmila Kaushik, who have been fighting against alleged encroachment over Kost nullah in Gwalpahari, filed an application before the high court to vacate the stay, ordered on April 28, on an MCG notice to the private builder which owns land in Gwalpahari, so that the land could be demarcated afresh. But the developer managed to get a stay. “The developer hid facts from the court and managed to get a stay. We now want to vacate it,” alleged Vaishali.
 
 MCG had issued the direction after Paras Buildtech was accused of encroaching upon the natural Kost nullah in the area. An earlier demarcation was done in April 2016, following a direction of the district administration.
 
 The issue of encroachment was first highlighted by locals in 2012. They started writing to different authorities about it. Failing to elicit any response from authorities, they approached NGT in April 2015. The tribunal directed that the encroachment be removed and Kost nullah be restored.
 
 Vaishali said several demarcations have been done in two years, which show the nullah to have been encroached upon. “Based on the April 2015 demarcation, Paras was asked to stop construction for a year as three of its buildings were being built right on the nullah. But in 2016, the then deputy commissioner withdrew the order to allow further construction,” said Vaishali, adding that Paras is building at a rapid pace, and if the nullah is not freed soon, it could lead to a rerun of last monsoon’s Gurujam this year.
 
 Sharmila said despite the hue and cry over preservation of natural drains, no action has been taken in this case. “For two years, we’ve been fighting to save this nullah, but construction on its bed continues unabated,” she said.
 
 Highlighting the need for fresh demarcation, they said last year’s demarcation by the revenue department, giving the developer a clean chit, was incorrect. 
 
 “All efforts are being made to intimidate us,” the activists said, adding the encroachment has serious environmental ramifications.
 
 Kunal Rishi, head of project at Paras, told TOI they have a 10-acre land parcel, and the project has all approvals. “The nullah is 29km long. Only a small part of our project is adjacent to it. I fail to understand why the greens keep harping on such a small stretch. Five demarcations have been done so far, and only one has shown encroachment, which we challenged. That was done by Haryana Agricultural University in Hisar, for which we paid Rs 22 lakh in fees,” said Rishi. “Demarcation was done by the revenue department, not us, so if there is any problem with it, then the concerned authority should be questioned.”
 
 
