JAIPUR:  ,  , Hogwarts staircase moving, flying cars, racing motorbikes, shooting guns, blasting houses, fire fighters, need for speed, 3D boxing and above all those extravagant animals, citadels and forts in  . Does your heart beats for  ? What could be more interesting than making your favourite pass time as your career?

 With the introduction of bachelor’s degree in game design and development as well as animation, it gives a chance to budding gamers and designers to make their passion into career. Game design and development deals with character response, artificial intelligence, game engine making, design, art, character building, motion capture, visual development, 3D, 2D animation, digital logic, algorithms and programming languages like C++, Java, XML and Python.
 
 Animation primarily deals with CGI (2D and 3D image), storytelling, special effects, image editing and manipulation. Eighteen-year-old Yuvraj Tilotia who dreams of creating his own game said, “I’ve been playing games since I started talking and it has always interested me to know the techniques and programming behind those games, like why does the character respond by kicking the ball when we press the button?” He decided to study programming languages and pursue his career in this field.
 
 When you play a certain game, a character responds to your command because of the coding enabled by programming languages which is dealt by game development. It also deals with the platform called game engine on which the game is run and running of game is directly proportional to the power of game engine.
 
 Visual effects (VFX) also called animation is the visual treat to the picture. It’s basically creating visual illusion by playing 2-3 static pictures together within a negligible time gap. VFX has boomed TV industry, with introduction of more and more sci-fi movies and cartoons for kids. Although, animation is not restricted to only sci-fi movies anymore as it’s used in every other movie these days like the very recent blockbuster ‘Baahubali’. The castle, waterfall and the huge elephant even the army shown in the film was possible due to VFX.
 
 Scope of this field has increased over the past few years and will have a lot of demand in near future. When your job will be to create games and provide visual treat to movies, how will you ever run out of clients. So, to all those tech-savvy and creative heads out there, if you think you can make Hermione’s spell work or fuel those NFS CARS, animation and game development might be your call.
 
 Courses are available at following universities - NID Gujarat, IIDA Kolkata, VIT and NIIFA Kolkata.
 
 Subhanshu Mathur The founder of Pace infotech says " the scope for this industry is rapidly increasing with the development of Android, all the companies are hiring web designers for an Android app for easy accessand increasing the business." Also he recommends to get a BFA followed by MFA for being a game developer. 
 
