CHENNAI: Listed funds turned huge sellers on the Indian markets in November after remaining buyers for four consecutive months. These funds pulled out $1.5 billion from India during the month, the second highest after China. The heavy selling has resulted in allocations by Asia (excluding Japan) focused exchange traded funds (ETFs) to India declining to 8.6% from 10% a year ago.

 While ETF outflows stood at $564 million, non-ETF outflows totaled $961 million during the month. India-dedicated funds and GEM (global emerging markets) funds saw outflows of $704 million and $658 million respectively, mainly driven by non-ETF outflows.
 
 In all, India-dedicated funds have pulled out nearly $3.1 billion over the past 12 months and about $2.4 billion between January and November 2016. These funds had infused around $3.9 billion into the Indian markets during 2015.
 
 Listed funds pulled out $2.8 billion from China, driven by huge non-ETF outflows of $1.9 billion, in November. Listed fund activities remained negative during the month in most of the emerging markets. Allocations to India and China constitute more than one-third of the average portfolio of Asia (excluding Japan) funds’ portfolio.
 
 Incidentally, foreign institutional investors (FIIs) also sold massively in November. FIIs net sold shares to the tune of $2.76 billion during the month, the highest monthly sell-off during 2016, data with share depository NSDL showed. They made net investments of $3.1 billion (Rs 20,568 crore) in the equity markets in 2016, a 15.5% increase over the previous year.
 
 Though the selling was across the board, FIIs exited stocks of companies in healthcare, industrials and information technology (IT) sectors in a big way in November, data compiled by funds tracker EPFR and Kotak Institutional Equities showed.
 
 Industrials topped the exit list with FIIs pulling out nearly $6 billion from the segment during the month. Overseas investors sold shares to the tune of $527 million and $471 million on a net basis from healthcare and IT sectors in November. 
 
 Allocation to India by these funds have decreased to 13.6% in November from 13.9% in October. Fund allocation to India by GEM funds however remained stable around 11% in the past few months. Allocation to India by GEM ETF funds declined to 9.2% in November from 9.4% in the previous month.
 
 
