PANAJI: The state of the art   at the Calangute-Saligao plateau, initially planned to take 100 tonnes of garbage daily has already surpassed that parameter and is currently taking in 125 tonnes of garbage. Despite the  , authorities are ready to take in more if the waste they receive comes segregated. 

 Goa state infrastructure development corporation officials have lauded the plant operations but stated that the daily operations can be increased if the waste coming from around 25 panchayats is already segregated. 
 
 “The plant is designed to take up to 185 tonnes of garbage daily. We have received the clearance to operate it at 125 tonnes so far. The plant is completely automated except for segregation, where dry waste is manually sorted into 12 different categories, including plastic, glass, clothes, etc. Bales are made of each of these categories of waste for subsequent sale to vendors. If we receive waste, which is at least segregated into dry and wet category from the panchayats, the speed of the whole process can fasten up,” said a GSIDC official, adding that the practice of sorting waste into dry and wet category should start from the homes itself. 
 
 As per the monthly performance report, mixed waste accounted for 75% of the total waste treated at the plant. It rose to 85% for the month of February, where it received 13% as wet waste and 0.85% as dry waste. The plant has been able to generate compost and recycled water which has been used for gardening purposes at the plant. 
 
 The solid waste management rules, 2016 states that municipal solid waste should be sorted into bio degradable, recyclable, combustible, sanitary waste, domestic hazardous waste at the source itself. Commercial entities such as hotels and restaurants are also bound to submit their waste to the local bodies segregated. Panchayats, however, receive just Rs 1 lakh for waste collection annually which many find insufficient. 
 
 Chief minister  , in his annual budget, had announced to make the state garbage-free by 2020. The government has allocated Rs 116 crore for total garbage management with Rs 77 crore for establishment of transfer stations, road side garbage collection across national highways, state highways, major district roads, collection of garbage from around 100 panchayat areas and for education programmes on garbage management.
 
 The government has also proposed to start two more garbage treatment plants in the State at Baiguinim and Industrial area of Verna Industrial Estate.
 
