CHANDIGARH: Nearly two weeks after Haryana former   and his son Deepender were booked by Delhi Police on February 15 over an assault on the party’s   in September last year, 12 of the party’s 17 MLAs met at Hooda’s Chandigarh residence on Monday to chalk out a plan for ousting Tanwar and Congess Legislature Party (CLP) leader  .

 Tanwar was injured in the clash between his supporters and those of the Haryana former CM in New Delhi. Nearly five months after the clash, Hooda and his son were booked in a case under the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on directions by the National Commission for Scheduled Castes after a complaint by Tanwar.
 
 Former Haryana speaker Kuldeep Sharma, who is MLA from Gannaur, said, “The way both Hooda and his son Deepender Hooda have been framed in a false case at the behest of Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president, it is damaging the party from inside and outside. We have already conveyed our feeling to the party high command.”
 
 Another former state speaker Raghbir Kadian, MLA from Beri, said the entire group of Haryana Congress MLAs were present in Delhi when the party workers clashed in September 2016, but Hooda and son were not there. “It was merely a clash of workers. We were present. Hoodas were not even associated with it. We’ve already conveyed this to the party high command. We will join the investigations as well in the case.”
 
 Treading cautiously, the Haryana Congress MLAs refused to outline their further strategy on the leadership issue. However, they threatened to offer their resignations to the party high command if their request for change in guard in Haryana Congress was ignored.
 
 When contacted, Tanwar expressed ignorance about the meeting by the 12 MLAs in support of Hooda. “I have not come across any such development. I will wait and respond at an appropriate place at an appropriate time,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, CLP leader Choudhry remained inaccessible despite repeated attempts.
 
