NAGPUR: Saoji delicacies, country and Indian Made Foreign Liquor, short trips to nearby pilgrimage centres, haldi-kumkums, saris, free transportation to   and other freebies — are all part of candidates’ effort to woo voters.

 Though voters, especially those in slum areas, are being treated royally since the polling dates were announced, the clandestine activities were at their peak on the eve of voting day. Despite Monday being a dry day, liquor flowed in in many areas seeing tough political fights. 
 
 At slums in Nandanvan, Hasanbagh, Tajbagh, Jagnade Chowk and other areas of South Nagpur, ‘desi’ liquor brought from Madhya Pradesh was allegedly distributed. “A variety of country liquors including ‘Santra’, Racket, Blast and Bullet were offered on a large scale. Candidates of rival parties were trying to outdo each other,” said Arvind Raturi, founder of   that has launched a campaign against such bribes.
 
 ‘Chuha’ and ‘nukkad’ meetings were organized regularly in slums. “The first one is organized at someone’s home while the latter happens in lanes. Candidates interact with residents and offer them sweets and snacks. The host gets a good commission,” said Raturi. 
 
 On Monday morning, Nandanvan police seized a carton of country liquor from Bhandewadi following complaint of a passer-by. “I was on my way to the animal shelter when I saw a gunny sack on the road side. Thinking there might be an abandoned dog inside it, I stopped to check but found a carton containing about 20-25 bottles of ‘Tiger Desi Daru’. Two people on a motorcycle were standing nearby, it seemed as if their vehicle’s petrol got over,” said  , member of NGO Help For Animals.
 
 On seeing Bodhane call the police, the two fled. “They dragged their bike from the spot. Two cops from Nandanvan police station came and seized the carton. We suspect the liquor was meant to be distributed in nearby slums,” Bodhane added.
 
 Owner of a wine shop in Central Avenue said close to elections, sales had gone up 20%. “Brands like McDowell's No.1, Officer’s Choice and   are in much demand. Since sales records of wine shops are being scrutinized by excise department, candidates are buying liquor in small quantities from various shops,” he said. 
 
 Not just liquor, luring voters with non-vegetarian meals is another thing happening this time. “In the last few days, biryani, chicken and mutton dishes are being delivered at our doorstep. In return, we are asked to vote for a candidate contesting from a mainstream party,” said a slum dweller near Gondwana Square.
 
 On Sunday afternoon, workers of a major party had erected a pendal near   where non-veg food was served to hundreds. Recently, a woman candidate hosted a haldi-umkum in Sadar. “She presented steel plates to us, asking us to vote for her,” said a housewife. Another resident of a posh locality said senior citizens of the area were taken on a day trip to Adasa temple by a prominent contestant. 
 
