GURUGRAM: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has decided to construct a   from   Chowk,  , to   camp on NH-8, keeping in view the heavy volume of traffic on the 3km-long stretch. Union minister and   MP Rao Inderjit Singh reviewed the survey report of the project on Wednesday.

 The stretch between IMT Chowk and NSG   is infamous for traffic snarls and a death trap for local residents. And the decision to construct the flyover on the stretch was taken in the wake of repeated demands by residents of nearby villages, officials said on Thursday.
 
 Once complete, it would benefit around three lakh residents of nearly 40 villages situated along the expressway.
 
 “Recently we had conducted a survey in the area and prepared a plan for construction of the flyover without acquiring land from local farmers,” said an NHAI official. “The flyover will be constructed on the existing road and all issues in the project have been resolved,” he said.
 
 The official said the issue of traffic diversion during construction work was also discussed in the Union minister’s review meeting. “This is a very busy stretch and diversion of traffic during construction work would be a big challenge. However, the district administration and police have assured us help,” he added.
 
 According to local villagers, the widening of highway has exposed their houses as the road is passing through the villages. Moreover, there has been frequent traffic jam on the highway. Also the number of accidents involving villagers has gone up and therefore a flyover is required for hassle-free movement of commuters from 40 villagers.
 
 “With the increasing traffic from industrial area and movement of vehicles moving towards Delhi and Jaipur on NH-8, it has become very difficult to cross the road. Accidents have become a regular feature on this stretch of the road. A flyover is the need of the hour,” said Sushil Yadav, a resident of Manesar village.
 
 In July 2015, Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari gave his nod to the construction of the flyover from IMT Chowk to NSG camp, but the project failed to take off then. Irked with the delay, villagers sit on a hunger strike from March 31 to April 6 this year, demanding construction of the flyover.
 
