KOLKATA: In his death, Partha De may well have set a precedent. Him being born a Hindu, his body is likely to be cremated, but a funeral service--in a conventional Christian way--will precede it.

 Those associated with him plan to conduct an all-faith service for De. As no relative has come forward to claim his body yet, De's close confidant   Borneo, ordained priest of the Archdiocese of Calcutta, who's also the principal of Loyola High School, may perform his last rites, which will include lighting the funeral pyre and carrying out Hindu rituals.
 
 Back in June 2015, when the police visited the Des' mansion on 3, Robinson Street after his father, Arabinda (77), committed suicide by set himself ablaze, they discovered that De had been living with the decayed body of his sister Debjani, who had died six months earlier, and the remains of his two dogs. At that time, it was found that De was a follower of Joyce Meyer, a US-based spiritual guru known to deliver sermons about the “spiritual Bible“.Later, after he was discharged from Calcutta Pavlov Hospital and started living at Watgunge, he attended   at Ekbalpore; “Jesus, Jesus“ was a regular refrain he used.
 
 “As no next-of-kin is claiming De's body, I would do the needful and perform the last rites (Hindu),“ Father Rodney told TOI.“But before that, we will have a service, which will be attended by the representatives of all faiths.“
 
 The police, however, said it might be too early for Father Rodney to plan the funeral. “We will preserve his body for at least the next week or 10 days. We will allow his family time to decide the next course of action,“ said a Port division officer, adding they were yet to receive an official communication from the priest.
 
 The police said they had called up Arun De, Partha's uncle, on his mobile. “Arun's wife said they had shifted to a new home in south Kolkata and do not want to be involved in any way with De's death. Two of his aunts--one from the maternal side--also apparently responded similarly.
 
 But the police pointed out that the family line did not end in Kolkata alone. “We have learnt that a few of his relatives are also scattered outside Kolkata. We have to give them time to respond to the news and approach us with the requisite papers. Anyone willing to come forward to claim the body has to remember that he or she has to undergo legal scrutiny as this is an one-off case that involves unclaimed property worth crores of rupees,“ an officer added.
 
 After his father Arabandia died, De had cremated him the Hindu way, amid police cordon, at the Keoratola crematorium.
 
