GURUGRAM: In a major setback to former minister Sukhbir  , the   on Monday refused to club all cases related to the  . 

 Kataria has been charged under sections 420 (cheating), 467, 468 and 471 (forgery) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC for allegedly using forged documents to prepare bogus voter lists to win the 2009 Assembly polls.
 
 The court also formed a special court to conduct regular hearing of all cases related to the voter scam. Now, the former minister will have to face the trial separately in all cases.
 
 Kataria and 125 others are facing trials in 12 different cases related to the scam. Out on bail, Kataria had filed an application before civil judge (junior division) Sukhdev Singh, seeking to club all the cases into one. The former minister contended that all the cases were related to one issue so that it should be clubbed, but the court rejected his arguments and ordered separate trials.
 
 The special court of Sukhdev Singh will hear these cases on a daily basis, except public holidays, from August 18 to 31. Kataria, who is accused in all the cases, will have to appear almost every day in the court for trials in different cases, and may face multiple convictions.
 
 “All these cases are different in nature, though they are related to the voter scam. So, clubbing them together would not have been appropriate,” said OP Kataria, complainant in the case.
 
 Earlier on May 19, the court had refused to release the passport of the former minister. He had filed an application seeking release of his passport to take his son abroad for admission to a foreign university for higher studies. 
 
 However, it was found that the former minister’s son had flunked in the exam and was not eligible for higher studies.
 
 As an independent candidate, Kataria had won the Gurgaon seat in the last Assembly elections by a thin margin of 2,138 votes. He then lent support to the Hooda government and secured the ministerial berth.However, his rivals soon had filed a suit in a city civil court, seeking an examination of the voter lists of his constituency. After a probe into the list, a number of fake names emerged on the lists, of which some were relatives of the minister. The names of his relatives also figured in the voter lists of more than three localities.
 
