PATNA: At least 1,750 candidates were expelled for using unfair means during the   conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) across the state from February 14 to 25. 

 Briefing newsmen on Saturday, BSEB chairman   on Saturday also thanked and congratulated the state officials for conducting the examination in a fair way, as well as the candidates and guardians for their cooperation. “Barring a few incidents, the examination was fair and peaceful,” he said.
 
 Kishor declined to divulge details of the the process of evaluation of answer books apparently as a precautionery measure to prevent any scam as it happened last year. “All I can say is that we have this time barcoded the answer sheets and the evaluator cannot know which answer sheet belongs to which candidate,” he said.
 
 Asked about reports of Physics paper leak in Aurangabad, he said investigations were on and the guilty would not be spared. “The leak was not successful as the candidates had by that time entered the examination hall,” he added.
 
 It may be recalled the Physics question paper went viral on WhatsApp around 10.15am while the examination was on. At least 18 people have been arrested so far in connection with the incident.
 
 This year’s examination was an acid test for the BSEB, which has earned infamy for making a mess of the examinations for two consecutive years. The topper scam, involving illegal help to undeserving students to top the Class XII examination, rocked the state in 2016. In 2015, a photo of people scaling walls of an examination centre to help Class X had gone viral on the net.
 
 Anish alias Anesh (17), an examinee and an undertrial juvenile prisoner, escaped from his examination centre at Muzaffarpur’s Ritlal College under sadar police station on Saturday.
 
 
 
 
 The Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) website will have a dedicated chapter to help alumni remain in touch with one another. BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said the page would have district-wise as well as batch-wise details of the students who would pass the examination in 2017. “We will later add details of the students who passed the BSEB examinations earlier,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB)’s Class X examinees this year can get their admit cards corrected on February 26 and 27 on the BSEB’s portal. The Class X examinations this year will begin on March 1 and conclude on March 8.
 
 
