CHENNAI: Kodungaiyur and Perungudi residents are once again burdened with the city’s mess - this time, the after-effects of cyclone Vardah. Tonnes of dry leaves, twigs and branches are being dumped at the two major landfills, amidst other food and industrial waste that the city generates. Residents are worried over the potential fire hazard and pollution. The fire department says that 153 fires have broken out at several of the 78 makeshift dumpyards across the city where windfallen trees were stored for auction.   has cleared 29,000 tonnes of garden garbage from 47 of these spots and officials say that in another three days, they would remove cyclone waste from all these open spaces. The temporary dumping sites in zones of Thiruvottiyur, Manali, Adyar and Shollinganallur have been fully cleared, said civic officials.

 Residents and experts say had the garden garbage been segregated and composted initially, it may have provided them some relief. “We are the scapegoat locaties,” says Sri Vivek, who had written an open letter to prime minister Narendra Modi seeking closure of the two dumpyards under  . “We are expecting the landfills to close soon, but, we are suffering more. We are not blaming corporation at the time of crisis, but if there was a planned infrastructure to manage solid waste, we wouldn’t be in this situation.”
 
 Though corporation announced in 2012 that they would take up remediation and scientific closure of the dumpyards, it was only last August when they roped in an international development consultant company, IPE Global. The company would submit a detailed project report by the end of January, said corporation’s deputy commissioner of the health department, M Vijayalakshmi. The company’s research report would have the characteristics of waste in both Kodungaiyur and Perungudi and will suggest the most suitable technology to close the landfills.
 
 “The government has made so many suggestions, but no change has happened on the ground,” says K R Surendran, president of a collation of resident associations in Thoraipakkam, which are proximal to the Perungudi landfill. “We are sure that even if fires break out, they won’t be allowed to escalate. But, the pollution that it is going to create is worrying, as it will add to the nauseating smell, contaminated ground water and the nuisance of houseflies and mosquitoes.”
 
 Fire engines have been stationed in these landfills. “We have tightened security and a conservancy inspector is supervising the sites round-the-clock so that anti-social elements or rag pickers do not set the leaves on fire,” said a dump yard supervisor. “Water tankers are also on standby, to douse the flames in case of fire.”
 
 
