MOHALI: Police suspect that senior journalist K J Singh, 64, and his 92-year-old mother were murdered for the 1-kanal house in Phase 3B2 in which they had been staying for last three decades. 

 The property is likely to be worth around Rs 2 crore to Rs 2.5 crore.
 
 Superintendent of police (detective)   said, "Property is suspected to be the prime motive. We are working on three angles but that concerning property is on top of the list." "The crime was committed by  . We are suspecting contract killing. But we are yet to reach a conclusion." he added.
 
 K J Singh and his mother Gurcharan Kaur were found murdered in their house on September 23. While Singh's throat had been slit, his mother Gurcharan Kaur was suspected to have been strangled. Singh, a bachelor, used to live alone with his mother.
 
 Atwal said that there was a rumour that the Ford Ikon car which the killers stole from the house of Singh was seen in   grabs at Dappar toll plaza and had been abandoned. SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, "We have no such information about the car being abandoned at Dappar. We have zeroed in on some of the suspects. We will give results very soon."
 
 Police on Sunday recorded the statements of family members of journalist K J Singh. The house which was sealed on Saturday was opened and family members allowed to identify the missing items. A police team led by SP (detective) Harbir Singh Atwal along with DSP AlamVijay Singh and inspector Sukhwinder Singh recorded the statements of Singh's elder brother Vijaypal Singh and nephew Ajaypal Singh while sitting in the green belt adjoining their house.
 
  KJ locked gate at 6.30pm 
 
 Family members of journalist   said he was a soft spoken person and was never involved in heated arguments with anyone in his life. Generally, he used to have his dinner by 7 pm. On the fateful day, Singh had already locked the main gate by 6.30 pm, said his younger sister. Singh had also informed his elder brother Vijaypal Singh about a person staring at his house for past two hours.
 
  "He called up Vijay and told him that he had locked the main gate after finding a man staring constantly at the house while standing in a green belt adjoining his house. The call was made at 7.30 pm." 
 
