In the latest episode of  , Goenkas and Singhanias are celebrating sawan when the girls start applying mehendi. And   takes the mehendi cone to apply. 

  goes to dadi and asks her to apply mehendi on her palm. Dadi says she doesn't know and that Naira should ask Swarna. 
 
 Kartik asks Naksh to apply mehendi on his hand. Naksh realises that Kartik and Naira are playing some game and he applies mehendi on his hand. 
 
 Naira is happy that Kartik applied mehendi on his hand and Naira is also happy that Dadi applied mehendi on her hand. She kisses her. 
 
 Gayu is hungry but cannot eat anything since she has mehendi on her hands, the dadis decide to feed them food. 
 
 Naira's bua dadi tells Keerti that she will get married soon and that all the worse times will be a thing of past soon. Dadi gets upset with bua dadi and asks her to not say such things to her daughter. She tells bua dadi that soon Keerti will also be happy. 
 
 Naira tries to pacify the two dadis but things turn awry. 
 
 Bua dadi and Suhasini dadi have a tiff, dadi tells her that Keerti will get married to a nice boy and will get the best of boy for her grand daughter. She says will get her grand daughter married before the end of saawan. 
 
 Naira asks dadi to understand what bua dadi is saying. Keerti gets upset and says she can never do good for her family. 
 
 
  
 Dadi shouts at bua dadi and taunts her again asking them to leave the celebrations.
 
 The ladies return home and Naitik is worried looking at them. Gayu tells them about what happened at the sawan milni. Everyone tries to tell bua dadi about how she was wrong this time. 
 
 At Goenkas house, Naira decides to go and meet dadi and ask for forgiveness. 
 
 Naksh is worried about Keerti and Singhanias worry thinking about Suhasini's decision to get Keerti married soon. 
 
 Naira asks for forgiveness from dadi and she requests dadi to not take any decision in haste. Dadi asks Naira to leave. 
 
 Dadi decides that she will do what she has thought of and will get Keerti married at the earliest. 
 
 Kartik and Naira share a romantic moment in their room. 
 
 
 
  
 
