Nagpur: During the festive season of Navratri, open grounds of the city which used to enjoy the prime status of becoming garba venues, seem to be losing their dominance. Varied reasons are prompting organizers of Garba events to opt for indoor set-ups. For the second consecutive year this time, Surbhi dandiya group, noted for its huge footfall, has opted for indoor arrangements at first and second floors of Naivedhyam Eastoria, Kalamna market. “We made this decision based on public demand. It ensures that all the visitors are saved from the inconvenience caused by the rain. Moreover, there are air conditioners inside the hall, which makes the overall experience of dancing better,” says organizer Tushar Bheda. The group has booked two halls in the venue, both with live orchestra, which can accommodate a total of 1200 people. The group donates all the profit amount for protection of cows. Kumkum celebration has this year hosted the event at IT building, Empress mall. “We wanted to ensure that the spirit of playing garba does not get hampered due to rains or any other reasons,” said director Pranay Ambare. The group only allows families, and has collaborated with the NMC in order to promote various initiatives like waste separation. The soon-to-be-opened Glocal Square mall has already opened its 40000 sq ft hall to garba revellers. One of the organizers Nalin Kanabar of Glocal Dhoom Dhaam Dandiya, who used to earlier collaborate with other group to organize the event at Chitnis Park said, “Parking was a big issue for us. The premises of the mall allows us parking for 250 cars. We also used to face other complaints. At the venue, we have permission to host the event till 12am, whereas at the ground we could only host till 10pm.” The central location and huge capacity of the hall are added advantages, Kanabar added. To ensure the safety of the girl students, Raisoni Group of Institutions has organized garba indoors for the past 11 years. This year, it has organized the event at Amrut Bhavan, North Ambazari road. “We wanted the girl students to feel comfortable and safe at the venue. Moreover, the dome protects visitors from rain and the location is also an advantage,” said organizer and dance choreographer Chetan Dashmukhe. Rotary Club of Nagpur North also decided to organize the garba night on Sunday inside a waterproof dome at Rani Kothi Lawns, Civil Lines. Gujarati mahila samaj organized a programme for its members on Monday, at the bhavan in Sitabuldi. Ladies were divided into four age groups, and a competition was held between them.