NEW DELHI: Now, you can report cybercrime online.   Police commissioner   on Wednesday launched a dedicated website for such cases. 

 District cyber cells will automatically receive the complaints as soon as they are registered on the portal, www.cybercelldelhi.in, and initiate investigation. Eventually, there will be a cyber unit at each police station to deal with these cases.
 
 With this, Delhiites will no longer have to make rounds of police stations, the crime branch and EOW to lodge complaints, Patnaik said. There will be interactive videos and Power Point presentations on the portal to educate visitors about new modus operandi adopted by the miscreants.
 
 The website was unveiled in presence of computer teachers of more than 200 Delhi schools at the  .
 
 “The website has been conceptualised as a one-stop solution for cybercrime and cyber safety information that a citizen may require in their day-to-day routine. The objective behind developing the website was to have a proactive communication with the citizens on cyber safety issues and to provide a responsive cybercrime reporting mechanism for the victims,” said Dependra Pathak, special commissioner of police and chief spokesperson of Delhi Police. 
 
 The portal has sections on types of cybercrime, modus operandi, safety tips for citizens and how to report such cases, Pathak added. Information about various crimes like email hacking, fake social media site, debit/credit card frauds, lottery scams, fake insurance schemes, e-theft and online cheating are available on the site. Safety precautions required to be taken in order to keep oneself safe from such crimes also find a mention on it. 
 
 The website has a list of ‘dos’ and ‘don’ts’ for different segments of internet users such as women, children, parents, senior citizens and businessmen. “There is a special page that provides information about the district cyber cells, along with their contact numbers. The website provides detailed information as to how to lodge a complaint and what documents are required to report these,” said Madhur Verma, Delhi Police spokesperson.
 
 Also, a dedicated link has been provided, which gives details about virus threats. 
 
 The top cop stressed the need to harness technology to counter the threat of cybercrime. Patnaik said all stake holders—police, media, schools, civil society and citizens—need to be involved to fight the growing menace of cybercrime. He sough cooperation from computer teachers in spreading awareness in this regard.
 
 
