Bhopal: The elementary education department of National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT), currently working to develop a fixed pre-school curriculum, has decided to set up in Bhopal one of its five centres.

 Sources said government is envisioning a plan under which textbooks would be replaced by classroom activities. Besides Bhopal, Bhubaneshwar, Mysore, Ajmer and Delhi are also on the list where the curriculum would be developed.
 
 “This plan is in the pipeline under which pre-schools in the country will now be able to follow a fixed curriculum for teaching 3 to 6-year-old children as per NCERT curriculum specially being prepared to help children till Class 1. Bhopal has been chosen among five cities where centre will be set up,” official sources said.
 
 The new NCERT curriculum will require private schools across the states to adopt the curriculum and follow it. “We are hoping to get it officially by the beginning of next year and most probably it would be implemented by 2018-19 academic session,” sources said.
 
  NCERT director Hrushikesh Senapati confirmed the move at a programme in New Delhi to mark the 57th foundation day of the council, which prescribes schoolbooks. He also confirmed that there would be no textbooks in the new curriculum being designed by the NCERT.
 
 At present, pre-school education is by and large limited to private schools, which prepare their own curriculum. The move can be seen as a major development in reducing school bag weight of kids.
 
 This would be for the first time that a government agency will give a fixed curriculum for pre-schools, which otherwise does not have any fixed curriculum.
 
 Sources said, the NCERT curriculum would have more of activity and less of textbooks which would further help in psychological development of children.
 
 “The curriculum would be for two years and it is being designed in such a way that it would fulfil two purposes, one is, it will prepare children from Class 1 with fun learning and another it will develop mental ability of kids,” sources in school education department said.
 
 The Central government is also working on a plan to link anganwadis to schools to start their own pre-schools.
 
 Some states like Telangana and Rajasthan already have pre-schools, but the MHRD along with ministry of women and child development (MWCD) is working on a pan-India plan. The proposal was recently sent by MWCD TO MHRD.
 
 
