CHENNAI: In a huge relief to the AIADMK deputy general secretary   in the two decade-old money laundering case, the Madras high court stayed all further proceedings against him, pending before an   here. The additional chief metropolitan magistrate (economic offences court-I) at Egmore had framed charges against him on April 19.

 Dhinakaran had come to the high court saying the economic offences court did not hear his counsel before framing charges.
 
 On Friday, Justice M S Ramesh, staying the case till July 17, said: “On the face of the records, reasonable opportunities have not been extended to the petitioner during the course of hearing. Notice to respondents returnable by July 17. Private notice permitted. There shall be an order of interim stay of all further proceedings in the case on the file of additional chief metropolitan magistrate (EO-I), Egmore till then. Post on July 17.”
 
 It was Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) contention that as the sole director of M/s Dipper Investments Limited Company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, Dhinakaran had transferred $1crore without RBI permission. ED said the company maintained an account with Barclays Bank Suttan Surrey, UK, and that in 1994 a total of 21 cheques totalling to the the value of $1,04,93,313 were deposited in the account of M/s Dipper Investments in the Barclays Bank.
 
 The charges framed against Dhinakaran in the economic offences court on April 19, 2017 said he had contravened the provisions of 8(1) of   1973 punishable under Section 56(1)(i) of FERA 1993. A total of six charges were framed against him for violation of various sections of FERA.
 
 In his present petition in the high court, Dhinakaran sought a stay of proceedings in the economic offences court and to set it aside saying he was not permitted to advance arguments before charges were framed. Had he been given an opportunity, he would have pointed out grave errors in the order of framing of charges, he said. 
 
 Though registered in 1996, the ED could not proceed ahead with the case due to several rounds of litigation. Dhinakaran was also discharged from the case, but on February 1 this year, Justice G Chockalingam allowed a revision petition filed by ED and set aside Dhinakaran’s discharge from the case. It paved way for resumption of the case, and led to framing of charges on April 19 this year.
 
