AHMEDABAD: When  , a city-based environment consultant, received a letter, dated April 12, from the PM's office, he could not believe his eyes. He had sent his book, ' ', to many dignitaries, but only the highest office had cared to respond. The environmentalist has been campaigning to save sparrows for over a decade, and popularly known in Ahmedabad as the ' '. 

 The letter from PM   mentioned, "I commend you for making nature conservation the mission of your life. My best wishes for your future endeavours towards conserving nature in general, and birds in particular." 
 
 But the PM had a bigger surprise in store for Kinkhabwala. "On Sunday, the PM mentioned my book and conservation efforts in  ," said Kinkhabwala. "It was the biggest surprise for me." In his speech, Modi said that he had received the book from Kinkhabwala some time ago. "His book not only expressed concern about the continuously declining number of sparrows, but also what steps he has taken in a mission mode for the conservation of sparrow is very nicely described in that book," said Modi on Mann ki Baat.
 
 "In our country, we are traditionally imbued with a sense of symbiotic co-existence with animals, birds and nature. Yet it is necessary that collective efforts in this regard should be emphasized," said the PM.
 
 Modi also shared an incident of the time when he was the CM of Gujarat. As part of the celebration of 100 years of Dawoodi Bohra community leader Syedna Saheb, the community had launched a huge campaign to save sparrows under the aegis of Burhani Foundation. "I had the opportunity to inaugurate it. Nearly 52,000 bird feeders were distributed across every nook and corner of the world. This effort also found a mention in the Guinness Book of World Records," added Modi.
 
 Kinkhabwala said that he would like to take the PM's slogan of 'Sab ka Saath, Sab ka Vikas' one step further by encompassing nature. "In all these years, over 5,000 persons from state and outside have shared success stories of the nests I have distributed. But now, I will also talk of saving trees and curbing pollution," said Kinkhabwalla. "If we do not check the rampant cutting of trees and curb air pollutants in city areas, it would not just be a death knell for the sparrows, but also for other birds," he said.
 
