PUNE: August will have one of the longest weekends of the year with a combination of   and timed leaves, giving travel enthusiasts an unprecedented nine days of break.

 For those rushing to pack their bags, here's a quick look: August 12 and 13 are Saturday and Sunday . The two days are followed by Janmashtami on August 14; Independence Day on August 15 and the Parsi New Year falling on August 17. Two days of leaves in the middle will allow travellers a record uninterrupted nine days.
 
 But August is not limited to this nine-day super-weekend. The month has a total of three long weekends -the Raksha Bandhan weekend from August 5 to August 7; the Independence Day weekend from August 12 to August 20 and the Ganesh Chaturthi weekend starting August 25 to August 27.
 
 Sources from the tourism industry are already seeing a surge in bookings and enquiries. In fact, travel agents are reporting a whopping 50% rise in hotel   destinations such as Mahabaleshwar and Goa. Those opting for road trips are expected to hit the beautiful Konkan coast -a highly recommended stretch during the monsoons.
 
 With nine days to spare, travellers are also looking at destinations abroad and many are looking at a few top destinations in Asia and Europe. Europe has emerged as the destination of choice for revellers, who are taking advantage of the long weekend next month.
 
 “Europe is in great demand. Many are booking trips to destinations such as France, Switzerland, Austria and Spain. But countries that offer visa on arrival to Indians are in high demand.Those include Mauritius, Maldives, Thailand, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Cambodia,“ Karan Anand, the head of relationships at Cox & Kings India said.
 
 He said the number of queries for international trips, timed with the nineday weekend, had gone up considerably . This is despite the fact that the Indian monsoon has traditionally been a time for domestic trips.
 
 Anand said due to an unpredictable monsoon this year, many travellers keen to enjoy the rains were postponing their annual vacations to the month of August.
 
 “There has been a near 25% surge in bookings for August compared to the last two months of June and July ,“ he said. Vijay Thakkar, the director at  , said the nine-day weekend would be one of the longest such holiday periods.
 
 “The rush in tourism activity went up 50% in August this year. There are no rooms available in Mahabaleshwar and another five-star at Karjat is reporting maximum capacity for August. Some  , too, are reporting full bookings for the month,“ he said.
 
 Shravan Gupta, executive director of Leisure Businesses, FCM Travel Solutions -an Indian subsidiary of FCTG, Australia -said 2017 is the year of long weekends.
 
 “And the trend of short vacations is catching up in India. For the Independence Day weekend, travellers have nine days at their disposal.We have seen a 15% to 20% rise in overall bookings from Pune when compared with the same period last year. In domestic travel, bookings across destinations such as Goa, Kerala, Ladakh, Coorg and Delhi have gone up,“ he said.
 
