JAIPUR: The   (JDA) will get   Palace Hotel and the   vacated within two months in keeping with the   order but will not change the nature of acquired land which is part of the   as per the city's Master Plan. 

 “The acquired built structures and the land will remain part of Central Park and JDA will not auction it for any commercial activity,” said a senior JDA officer, who did not wish to be named.
 
 The Laxmi Vilas campus and its adjoining marriage garden is of six bigha and Kanak Bhawan is of 1.5 bigha.
 
 Under Rajasthan State Land Acquisition Act, the Urban Improvement Trust (UIT), in 1973 acquired 322-bigha land in Rambagh Complex for public utility. As per UIT claims, the these two prime structures were part of the were part of the “acquired” land. 
 
 In May 2010, attempt was made by the JDA to take possession of these structures after Rajasthan High Court passed the order on a public interest litigation (PIL), which was filed seeking court intervention over JDA's failure in taking physical possession of the acquired properties. The JDA initiated the eviction drive and signboards reading JDA property were installed after sealing the building . However, the sealed was opened after stay was granted to the owners by Supreme court. 
 
 It was informed, the Laxmi Vilas was originally an estate motor garage and constructed during the period of Sawai Man Singh-II . It was converted into a into a hotel by erstwhile ruler Bhawani Singh. 
 
 In 1986, Bhawani Singh sold both Laxmi Vilas as well as Kanak Bhawan. The three families who owned the properties were using parts of the properties for residential and commercial purpose. However, JDA had challenged sale of the two properties.
 
 Surrounded by rolling meadows, long walking/jogging tracks, a golf course, a polo ground, the Laxmi Vilas was a popular tourist destination ever since it was converted into a heritage hotel in the early seventies. Official sources said , “ The heritage structures will not be demolished. The utility of these two buildings will be decided after getting them vacated.”
 
