SURAT: Imtiyaz Shaikh has been driving autorickshaw for the last two decades in the  . His route of operation is from railway station to Rander and Pal areas. Ask him how the business is and he turns sullen. “I have never seen such a dull   in all these years. I remember getting good business pre-Diwali. People would come from nearby areas for Diwali shopping. This time around we are seeing very less number of people,” says Imtiyaz. 

 He is not the only one who is complaining. Retail markets in the Diamond City are experiencing a severe customer crunch this Diwali and business has plummeted by almost 40 per cent compared to previous Diwali seasons. 
 
 President of Confederation of All India Traders’ (CAIT),   chapter, Pramod Bhagat told TOI, “There is a decrease of almost 40 per cent in the sales across retail segments in the ongoing festival season. Demonetization and Goods and Service Tax (GST) has hit hard the purchasing power of consumers. The ready-made garment business is hit hard due to 12 per cent GST on garments above Rs 1,000. The furniture and hardware retailers are also without business due to high tax slab of 28 per cent, so is the case with packaged food items having 12 per cent GST.”
 
 Surat Diamond Association (SDA) president Babu Gujarati said, “Small manufacturers and traders have been hit hard by the GST and demonetization. Diamond exchanges four to five hands before it is exported. At every stage there is a payment of 3 per cent GST. Small traders and manufacturers are unable to do business as huge amount of their capital gets blocked.” 
 
 Owner of retail packaged food chain — Mahavir Namkeen — Arun Jain said, “The charm of Diwali is missing this year. Compared to last year, our business is down by almost 40 per cent. People are not coming out to purchase food items for Diwali. I hope to get some business in the last days of Diwali.” 
 
 Ready-made garment retailers blame demonetization and the new tax regime roll out for the decline in sales this festive season. Post-GST, the clothes market has not picked up at all. People had purchased clothes in bulk quantity during pre-GST period when huge discounts were offered, the retailers lamented.
 
 A ready-made garment retailer at Bhagal Shailesh Raika said, “I have never seen such a lull in the business in all these years. Only demonetization and GST are to be blamed for the declining sales. If a customer purchases jeans valued at Rs 2,000, we have to straight away deduct 12 per cent, which comes to Rs 240. Pre-GST, most of the city residents purchased branded clothes when huge discounts were offered.”
 
 Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association president Manoj Agarwal said, “I have a list of around 80 textile shops that shut down in the last one month. The small traders will be literally wiped out from the market due to GST. The Diwali sale has declined by almost 70 per cent in the textile markets. Overall, the business is down by almost 40 per cent post-GST.”
 
