NEW DELHI: Three Delhi Police constables displayed exemplary presence of mind in tracing a three-year-old girl, who had been abducted by a man posing as a eunuch from near her house in central Delhi on Monday. As soon as they received the missing complaint, the cops launched a search operation and rescued the child within 12 hours. 

 The accused, Rakesh, had planned to sell her off to a trafficker. He kept changing his names and at one point, impersonated as a eunuch. He roamed around in colonies with other eunuchs, looking for potential targets.
 
 The abduction drama unfolded on Monday evening. Unable to locate the girl, her parents searched the entire neighbourhood in   area but in vain. DCP (central) Mandeep   was briefed about the case and he immediately formed a team to be led by the area SHO to trace the girl. 
 
 An FIR was registered and investigations initiated. The team comprising three constables — Monit, Anant and Sandeep — asked every vendor and shopkeeper in the area about the missing girl. CCTV footage was thoroughly scanned as well. 
 
 This was when the cops got a tip-off from an informer about a man having been seen with eunuchs in the same locality. Cops started tracking a mobile number, which led them to   in east Delhi. The cops then conducted a door-to-door enquiry to identify the accused and the victim. Finally, they reached the exact house and the girl was found in a room. She was taken for medical examination, which revealed that she was not harmed by the accused. 
 
 Rakesh was questioned at length during which he revealed that he had been visiting the locality for some time and had decided to abduct the girl and sell her for money. On January 2, he had lured the girl on the pretext of buying her toffees.
 
 Randhawa said that the three constables and the team led by SHO ( ) I K Jha will be rewarded. Rakesh, who is unemployed and lived at his aunt’s house, is being questioned to ascertain the number of children he might have kidnapped in the past. 
 
