Indore: Ratlam-Ajmer train services was extended till Indore on Tuesday afternoon when newly converted Q-track section between Ratlam and Dhoswas railway stations was inaugurated jointly by Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu and Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan from Delhi. The occasion was marked by flagging off of Indore-Ajmer express train from Indore railway station. 

 Prabhu and Mahajan, who attended the ceremony through video conferencing at Rail Bhavan in New Delhi termed the occasion ‘major’. The railway minister in his address promised of providing all possible support and better rail connectivity. He also mentioned a steep increase in budget allocation for Madhya Pradesh by the Centre. 
 
 “The railways spent Rs.632 crore on upgradation of infrastructure in Madhya Pradesh from 2009 to 2013. The sum increased by over four times to Rs 2871 crore last year,” said Prabhu.
 
 There has been a 750 per cent increase in budget allocation for the year 2017-18 in comparison to allotments made between 2009-10 and 2013-14. The Indian railway is working on partnership model for betterment of rail services and passenger amenities,” he said. 
 
 Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan in her address said, “We have a long list of development and extension of rail services in the region. To provide more convenience to passengers for their journeys to northern region, a special train to Delhi will be introduced very soon.”
 
 Mahajan also said that the railways have plans for expansion of Mhow railway station.
 
 Meanwhile, divisional railway manager Manoj Sharma, who was present at the function, said that a proposal was under consideration for increasing number of trains on the Q-track.
 
 Construction of Q-track was not an easy task due to existence of minor bridges and big size of girders. The gauge conversion of five kilometres long section took place after construction of diesel loco shed in Ratlam to bypass. Soon after the gauge conversion work between Ratlam and Neemuch, the new line got merged with current broad gauge line and the Q-track was of no use as MG train used to terminate on main platforms at Ratlam railway station. Thereafter, the railway decided to convert this Q-track section into broad gauge to provide direct connectivity to Mandsaur for trains coming from Indore. The railways also have plans to connect this Q-track with Delhi-Mumbai main line.
 
 
