VISAKHAPATNAM: Those living and working along the 25-km stretch on National Highway-16 from the airport junction to Adarshanagar junction expressed disappointment at the slow progress of the road widening project taken up by the Greater   (GVMC).

 On instructions from chief minister  , the GVMC took up the   in the beginning of summer 2016. The project was supposed to have been completed by the onset of the monsoon the same year. The CM wanted the road to be widened for easing out vehicular traffic on the highway besides adding beauty to the city roads.
 
 With summer 2017 approaching, the project, which includes 60 types of works like digging of roads, making culverts, shifting electricity poles and demolishing structures that come under the marked area of the widened road, is far from completion. 
 
 When TOI enquired about the progress of the project with the GVMC on Saturday, officials said only 60% of the project works have been completed till date.
 
 One of the primary reasons for the delay was lack of technical clearances from other stakeholders including AP Transco, Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) and BSNL for shifting the electricity and telecom lines in some areas, said sources. The works of culverts and canals at some junctions including Venkojipalem are yet to begin, they added.
 
 “The slow progress of the   project is causing a lot of inconvenience to the public, particularly those at Venkojipalem and Hanumanthawaka Junction. The authorities are focussing on widening the roads used by VIPs and giving less priority to other places,” said P Muralidhar Rao, a bank employee and resident of Venkojipalem.
 
 Apart from the general public,   are also finding it difficult to work under the circumstances. 
 
 “Such important works particular on the busy highway roads should be completed on a war-footing. But it is not being done in the city,” opined a traffic constable at Hanumanthawaka Junction.
 
 The GVMC started the project at an estimated cost of Rs 18 crore, but later upgraded it to Rs 30 crore. 
 
 As per the project, either side of the highway stretch has to be widened by two feet depending on the need. 
 
 When contacted, GVMC commissioner M Hari Narayanan said, “The highway road widening project has been completed up to Maddilapalem. Work is going on from Maddilapalem to Hanumanthawaka. It is likely to take another six months to be completed. There is no delay of the project. The works are being sanctioned in parts for want of funds.”
 
