Nagpur: Two days after Janmanch team exposed Nagpur University’s lax security at its Examination Section, questions are being raised by its own officials about the administration’s decision to deploy Maharashtra State Security Corporation (MSSC) only at its administrative block.

 The new security agency with wide-ranging powers, including arresting hoodlums, started working from July 8, after a pact was inked between NU and MSSC. Officials from Exam Section, who had been caught unawares during Janmanch’s raid, flayed NU administration led by vice chancellor SP Kane and pro-VC Pramod Yeole. They said instead of the offices of senior officials, the Exam Section, which is the most sensitive department of any university and directly concerned with students, should be protected.
 
 Officials also raised doubts about the reasons for not deploying MSSC security, claiming it would stop all wrongdoings and underhand dealings by employees.
 
 Refuting all allegations, the VC told TOI that they would be soon deploying the same agency not only in Exam Section but also at hostels. “I was actually informed by police commissioner K Venkatesh about MSSC security, after which we decided to experiment with it. So, we took their services on pilot basis at administrative block, and found it to be very effective. Now, we will expand it to other premises, but first at Exam Section and hostels.”
 
 He added that MSSC guards would be deployed at Exam Section within two weeks. “Of course, it’s costing us over two-and-a-half-times, but their performance is very good.”
 
 On action against erring officials, the VC said they had all marked attendance through biometric system where they could easily check latecomers. “We had already started deducting salary of those who came late thrice in a month. The new system checks retina and there is no chance of manipulations,” he said.
 
 While talking to TOI, even director of examinations and evaluation Neeraj Khaty had stated that he would be preparing a proposal to rope in services of MSSC guards. “I was asked by the VC and pro-VC in this regard, but I was concerned about the bigger budget required for security, which is costing us Rs90 lakh.”
 
 On the files scattered in corridors, the VC said they were not in use anymore, and should be ideally destroyed. “The files belong to students, which they should take back after checking work is over. But nobody bothers to take them back,” he said. 
 
 NU officials said that they were already overburdened with examination work ever since the semester pattern was introduced. Even Khaty agreed with them, saying that when Kane was controller of examination in 2012-13, there were over 200 employees and number of exams were less. But now, they have just 120 employees and exams have doubled since then.
 
 The Janmanch visit exposed shoddy and pathetic condition of entire premises, which was full of garbage in the corridors. Heaps of old files, including PhD theses of students, were dumped at a corner in corridors. Even in the godown on the ground floor, huge stock of blank answer sheets was lying unattended.
 
 
