Just in case you are wondering, that’s not a dirt track you are looking at. Bang in the middle of the Pipeline Road on Radial Road No. 5 in Manikonda lies this 100-meter-stretch that commuters dread. For over five years now residents who live in and around Manikonda have been forced to commute on this thoroughfare, risking their limbs and life as the concerned authorities continued to turn deaf ear to numerous petitions filed over the last five years. An online petition, “We deserve better roads....” has brought this dreaded road back into the news finding 858 signatories in less than two weeks. 

 “This incomplete 100 meters stretch is part of Radial Road No. 5, which is 8 kms long approximately, connecting from   ( ) to Shaikpet Junction, is supposed to be a 4 lane road approved/initiated by HMDA in 2012 and we are now in 2017 !,” rants Santosh Kiran GV in the online petition addressed to seven concerned public servants —   (GHMC) Commissioner Janardhan Reddy, Manikonda Sarpanch K Narender Reddy, Municipal Administration, Urban Development Minister  , Hyderabad Metro Development Authority Commissioner, Sri Chiranjeevulu, Telangana Public relations Commissioner, Sri Navin Mittal, Minister for Panchayat Raj, Sri Jupally Krishna Rao and Transport Minister, P  .
 
 “There have been numerous accidents on this road and negotiating this stretch is an absolute nightmare during the rains. Representatives of close to 30 residential colonies in and around Manikonda had approached   back in 2012 and submitted petitions to KTR as well a couple of years ago. But they all fell on deaf ears,” rues SB Rajasekhar, former President, SBI staff association who owns a house in Tanashanagar, HUDA colony.
 
 Bhargava Ram, a HR executive who has been living in the locality for over a year, says, “Cars, city buses, trucks, auto rickshawas carrying school children packed to capacity and pedestrians use the same road. But no one seems to care.” Actor Abhinav Patel, who stays in OU Colony, Manikonda, says, “Every time I drive on this road, I pray to god that I negotiate it safely.”
 
 And looks like their prayers have been answered thanks to the online petition.  , Chief General Manager, Outer Ring Road assures the road will be fixed soon (see inset). 
 
 
