KOLKATA: Several parts of Kolkata would be inundated if steps are not take immediately to conserve and protect the  , according to a survey by green NGO South Asian Forum for Environment (SAFE). The civil society organization working on the science-society interface for sustainable environment development and poverty alleviation in collaboration with   (IWMI), Colombo, has come up with some starting facts about the city's flood resilience.

 The SAFE-IWMI study has found that the only remaining flood relief line for water-level resilience in the Kolkata municipal area is the Adi Ganga-Tolly canal that used to join Hooghly with Bidyadhari river, now called the Matla, and the shrinking peri-urban wetlands of Eastern Kolkata. The study pointed out that in a decade -from 2005 to 2015 -Kolkata has lost 53% of its peri-urban wetlands and currently 86% of the stretch of Adi Ganga flows below the average environmental flow volume. Heavy siltation in peri-urban wetlands and land-use changes due to rapid urbanisation have decreased the flood-resilience efficacy of the wetlands by 65%, the study reveals.
 
 According to a   and   study , the city already stands third on the list of cities prone to flood risks and climate disasters. “The city can be saved from a very possible flood disaster only if the wetlands, which is the natural drainage system of the city , is conserved and protected,“ said Dipayan Dey , chair of SAFE.
 
 It has been found that the KMC's artificial drainage system linked to Bagjola and Kestopur canal has faulty slope gradients. Beliaghata canal is already blocked due to encroachment.
 
 Looking into the bio-physical aspects of flood risk in Kolkata, the city experiences huge variability in mean rainfall (12-15% annually or up to 15 to 20mm) that makes the city highly vulnerable to flooding. The Hooghly river experiences a phenomenon called `tide bore', which pushes the tidal water rapidly into the river, causing tidal waves of heights between 2 to 5 metres. The average elevation of KMC area is 6 metres above sea level and land subsidence in the city ranges from 2 to 5 metres. The estimated net sea level rise in   is 5.7mmyear, (according to MoEF 2010 figures) that poses a high risk of inundation in the southern parts of the city.
 
 Taking all these into account, about 17.3% of total population of the city residing in ward number 14, 57, 58, 63, 66, 67, 74, 80 and 108 are in high flood risk zone and areas wards 111to 115 and again from 122 to 126 are very prone to inundation from sea level rise in southern Kolkata.With the given conditions, in the next five years, the city's natural flood resiliene system will succumb to a mere 48 hours of torrential rain and will flood the entire city with more than 2000 million litres of raw sewerage, which will stop flowing due to waterlogging. By 2020, a mere 2mm rise in sea level or 48 hours of torrential rainfall will fully submerge Kolkata if the drainage system and flood resilience mechanisms of the city is not rebuilt, the study mentions.
 
