INDORE:The upgrading of   to Bharat Stage –IV, aimed at cutting down vehicular pollution by limiting emission of major air pollutants, is unlikely to yield expected results for quite some time. The reason: Over 80 per cent vehicles running on city roads are still Bharat Stage –III compliant and experts say these vehicles can’t burn the upgraded version of the fuel completely, leading to increase in vehicular pollution.

 After the   order to ban registrations of   from April 1, the last two days of the financial year 2016-2017, registered record sales of about 4,000 units of BS-III compliant vehicles, most of them being two wheelers..
 
 “Fuel at all   has been upgraded and has been available to consumers since April 1. A BS-III compliant engine running on BS-IV fuel will continue to pollute as usual. For desired results, both engine as well as the fuel has to be upgraded to BS-IV, ” said Indian Oil’s manager for retail sales at Indore divisional office,  .
 
 All petrol pumps in Indore district have upgraded to BS-IV fuel from April 1. There are about 258 fuel stations in Indore district and on an average, monthly sale of fuel in the district is about 1,56,20,000 liters.
 
 Sonam Dang, an automobile engineer said, “BS-III engines are not capable of limiting air pollutants as much as BS-IV engines. Various technologies have been used to upgrade BS-IV engines so that the emission of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons and nitrogen gases can be reduced.”
 
 With more BS-III vehicles on roads now running on BS-IV fuel, experts say there is hardly going to be any reduction in pollution levels. They say pollution levels could be reduced if BS-IV fuel is used in the new vehicles that have been designed to combust this fuel properly.
 
 For the present, automobile experts suggest that changes can be made in exhaust systems of BS-III compliant vehicles. In addition to the hardware changes, the engine mapping too has to be changed for efficient combustion. They said alternate options should be framed to cut down emissions from old vehicles.
 
 “Automobile companies should manufacture separate kit for old design BS-III engines that can be fitted with the vehicle to properly combust fuel, ” said executive at an automobile firm in Pithampur, Sunil Kalyankar.
 
