CHANDIGARH: The dying declaration of Ambala villager Baljeet Singh and subsequent disclosures made by those arrested in the case point a finger at Haryana speaker and senior BJP leader from Yamunanagar,  , over the cash-for-job scam in the legislative assembly. The matter is related to the recruitment of peons or store keepers in the state assembly.

 As per records of the investigation, accessed by TOI, Ram Nath, a resident of Lalpur village in Ambala district, had claimed that Rs 90.15 lakh were paid to one Wakil Singh, stated to be personal assistant (PA) of the speaker, for jobs in the   sectariat. Name of one Ashok Kumar, who is posted in the Vidhan Sabha, also cropped up in the disclosure statements.
 
 In his statement recorded before his death, Baljeet stated that he had met Ram Nath, a resident of Lalpur, through some relatives. He alleged that Ram had told him that he could get his sons government job as he had powerful connections.
 
 Baljeet had alleged that he collected Rs 93.15 lakh from some youths and handed over the money to Ram. However, he could not get those boys the promised jobs and Baljeet sought the money back. Ram allegedly delayed repayment on one pretext or the other. Denial of the money forced Baljeet to commit suicide, according to his statement before death.
 
 When Ram was arrested by the police, he disclosed that he had paid Rs 90.15 lakh to Wakil out of Rs 93.15 lakh collected and paid by Baljeet for jobs in the Vidhan Sabha.
 
 As per the statements made before the police, Ram had kept Rs 3 lakh out of Rs 93.15 lakh. He further disclosed that they had come to know that Wakil had been posted as PA to speaker Gujjar. Rs 7 lakh per candidate was demanded for employment of the candidates against the posts of peons and store keepers and as per Ram’s statements, some amount was paid by him and Baljeet to Wakil in the premises of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha.
 
 Wakil had stated that staff members, who were earlier employed by the previous government, were to be removed from job and the boys, who paid money, could be adjusted against the vacant posts then. He further told that posts of peons and store keepers were to be advertised shortly and boys could be adjusted against these posts for consideration of Rs 7 lakh each.
 
 It was further disclosed by Ram Nath that Wakil had told them that one Ashok Kumar used to collect money and asked to bring 10-15 boys with money. He further disclosed that after 10-15 days, he had paid Rs 37 lakh for six-seven candidates in an open plot in front of the Haryana chief minister’s residence. Wakil is at present the liaison officer, MLA Hostel, Sector 3, Chandigarh.
 
