AHMEDABAD: The Amipara family of   village of   district is facing a complaint under   from its daughter-in-law, who had left her matrimonial home 14 years ago after residing there only for five days.

 Gujarat high court has recently held that the complaint filed by Jyotiben Amipara against her in-laws under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act is maintainable even though she had left the matrimonial home 14 years ago, much before the legislation came into effect in 2006.
 
 In this case, Jyotiben from   village of Vanthali taluka left her matrimonial home just five days after her marriage with Mahendrabhai Amipara in 2003. A year later, she filed for maintenance under provisions of Section 125 CrPC, and a court in Junagadh awarded her alimony in 2006.
 
 In 2008, Jyotiben approached a magisterial court in Vanthali and filed a complaint under the DV laws demanding maintenance, shared household as well as a share in the property. She filed the complaint against four in-laws – Bhupatbhai, Savitaben, Artiben and Madhuben Amipara. Her in-laws objected to the magisterial court’s entertaining of her application on the ground that it was filed at a belated stage and the complaint was time-barred and hence the court cannot entertain it.
 
 The family unsuccessfully raised the argument before the lower courts that the provisions of Section 468 of CrPC renders Jyotiben’s complaint not maintainable, because it was not filed within one year of the incident. A sessions court in Junagadh turned down the objection in 2013, and the family moved the HC.
 
 After hearing the case, Justice Biren Vaishnav concluded that a woman can file complaint under DV laws even if she was in the relationship in the past. It is open for the woman to seek monetary relief, and orders for protection and residence at any stage. Since DV law is a civil law, there is no question of time limitation in filing a complaint held the HC. With this, the HC lifted the stay on proceeding on Jyotiben’s complaint before Vanthali’s magisterial court.
 
 
