THRISSUR: A proposal to phase out the much-hyped cross-breeding of cattle and to intensify measures to conserve and promote the indigenous  , is under the consideration of the Centre. Even though a final decision is yet to be taken, the cow slaughter ban being enforced by several states is said to be a major factor which has fueled such a move, according to the veterinary experts. 

 The experts said even though the cross-bred varieties have been found to be highly productive in terms of milk yield, their number of calving is limited to five to six times. The farmers have to replace or cull the cows after the fifth delivery and with the increasing trend of slaughter ban the farmers are forced to retain the unproductive cows at enormous economic costs. However, the number of calving among some of the indigenous varieties of cattle is as high as 10 to 12, enabling the farmers to retain them at their productive phase for a longer period. According to the deputy director general (animal sciences),   (ICAR) H Rahman, the indigenous varieties were also found to be more disease-resistant and adapted to the local climate and ecosystem.
 
 Rahman, who was at the College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Mannuthy to inaugurate a national symposium the other day said, plans were also afoot to increase the productivity of the indigenous cattle through techniques like genome selection. Steps were also being taken to prevent bio-piracy of indigenous varieties of cattle by maintaining records of their genetic characteristics using advanced techniques, he added.
 
 The country produces 160 million tonnes of milk and 78 billion eggs. Out of the total   53% was from buffaloes, 43% from cow and 4% from goats. However, out of the total milk production from cattle, 80% was from cross-bred varieties and 20% was from the indigenous varieties, he pointed out.
 
 When contacted   director N N Sasi said the proposal to wind up cross-breeding was not being considered in the state as it was not practical here. He pointed out that nearly 97% of the cattle population in Kerala was already cross-bred variety and the state had just only limited stock of indigenous varieties like the  . "Kerala cannot meet its demand for milk through indigenous cattle alone," he said. 
 
