INDORE: After couple of days of soothing temperature,   began to rise in the city from Wednesday. 

 The maximum temperature on Wednesday rose above normal recording 39.6 degree Celsius, which was a degree above the normal temperature. 
 
 However, the minimum temperature remained same as average with 19.0 degree Celsius (0). 
 
  Met officials said that the temperature will see an upward trend from April 12. “The temperature will be on the higher side at least for the next four days. The residents had some respite from heat with the rain and snowfall in northern areas that resulted in temperature drop down. But the impact of that snowfall has ended now and temperature will follow the trend of April,” said an official from the Indore’s Met observatory. 
 
 Meanwhile, the relative humidity on Wednesday was low throughout the day with 16% in the morning and 11% in the evening. 
 
 According to the climatic features of   for April, this month sees continuous rise in day temperature with fall of pressure. Winds are generally dry and from westerly direction, becoming moderate to strong on few days during afternoon hours, causing human discomfort. 
 
 When the western disturbances move across north India, moist air from sea is drawn into the interior giving rise to thunderstorm on some occasions. These summer thunderstorm occur mostly during late afternoon or evening and are accompanied with strong winds or squall and sometimes with hail.
 
 Mean maximum temperature of Indore is 38.8° C during first week of April rising to around 41° C towards the second fortnight of the month, on few occasions it exceeds 43.0° C.
 
 With days getting warmer, roadside shops selling caps, handkerchiefs, juice centres and similar items have mushroomed at busy crossings. Along with these items, sale of sunglasses have also picked up in the city. Several swimming pools of the city have also started witnessing large number of children, who are coming to get respite from the heat. 
 
 “We were not using AC for longer duration during the past few days but today again it was quite hot and sweaty,” said Ritika Chouhan, a working professional from the city. 
 
 These are early   and with the passing days, the mercury would continue to show an upward trend ultimately resulting into strong, hot and dry wind, which will pave way for monsoon, said the Met official. 
 
