MUMBAI: Three days after a   was derecognized for giving illegal admissions to over 600 students, the   has written to the   seeking action against at least 18 more such colleges in the city that have tied up with tutorials and offer “integrated coaching”.

 The letter claims that under ‘integrated coaching”, students are assured they need not bother about attendance in college or internal marks. “Many of these colleges are enrolling students in their name and entire coaching activity is done by private coaching classes. This practices followed by  , Borivli, is also followed by most of the colleges,” the letter submitted to the government noted, stressing that the “unholy nexus” must end. 
 
 Many private tutorials have taken over colleges and are running them, it said. “This trend has elevated the status of some coaching classes to recognized junior college," the letter said, calling it a dangerous trend. “Aspiring students are lured to join classes and are assured that they will have to travel less, will have no problem with attendance in college, and are assured marks in internal examinations," association’s former vice-president   said pointing out that the practice is common among those preparing students for various entrance tests.
 
 “This is a systematic racket of running the ‘integrated courses’ thereby violating the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act 1987. It is obvious that the students are lured and under compulsion are taking admissions to such integrated courses,” added Bhambwani.
 
 Everyone is involved, he explained. “College trustees, professors and some big corporate coaching classes create an alliance. College trustees allot rooms in colleges to these corporate coaching classes... During college hours, students are coached by staff deputed by coaching classes.”
 
 
 
 
  common among institutions preparing students for entrance tests
 
 Colleges enter into arrangement with private coaching classes
 
 They allow coaching classes to run on college premises
 
 Students are required to pay hefty fees for integrated coaching
 
 They are assured private classes conducted on college premises
 
 Students assured marks in internal examination
 
 They need not bother about attending college lectures also
 
 
