Shabana Azmi,   and   were in Bengaluru recently and met the who’s who over a causal lunch. 
  caught up with them for a candid chat. Excerpts:

 
 
 “We had a blast while working on  . There was a lot of joy in the making of it. There was no ego between us,” says Lillete. Aparna, who has acted and directed the film, says that it was a joy working with her co-stars. “We could completely trust each other during the shooting. Shabana and Lillete trusted me as the director,” she says.
 Respect for each other and each other’s work too was a factor that made it easy for them to get along. “We respect each other’s work; we’re familiar with each other’s work. We have the same sort of sensibilities and values and that made it easy for us,” says Shabana.
 
 
 
 When asked about how more actress are breaking the mold of the stereotypical actress, Shabana said that good things are happening in Bollywood. “Somebody like Anushka Sharma, who has produced two films (NH10 and  ), both the films are so different from each other. I really applaud her. She could have played safe with her films but both the times she stuck her neck out and made films that other producers could not have made,” says Shabana. She adds, “I admire the fact that Priyanka Chopra is producing regional cinema. It’s unthinkable and earlier it used to be looked down upon. Now because she is doing it, it has become very fancy. Women are becoming more assertive and due to this, they are being able to change the rules of the game. Otherwise actresses earlier were so busy being just ‘heroines’.”
 
 
 
 “Our society is deeply patriarchal. There are defined roles for women. Currently there is great turmoil because women are pushing boundaries, seeking space for themselves and men are renegotiating their space,” says Shabana. “You need to take consequence if you choose to be a single woman. When you decide to choose a path like this, you need to take consequence of the path you’ve chosen and most women are afraid to do that. They would go down the trodden path,” says Lillete. But the actress feels that things are changing. “Women are now fearless about relationships are not working. Am glad that is changing. To me that’s empowerment,” Lillete adds.
 
 
 
 
