MANGALURU: What does it take for five   to chill out in Goa? Well, a 355-km bicycle ride from Namma   to Goa for starters. This is what five MbC Juniors – Achinthya Rao, Ankith Shetty, Dhrushya Billave, Gautham Rao and   did riding their bicycles all the way to Goa! Braving the scorching summer heat on the coastal belt, the boys chalked out their draft plan for the ride in just two days before approachng ‘MbC Seniors’ for suggestions and tips.

 Surprised to see their enthusiasm for this journey, seniors chipped in, says  , general secretary,   (MbC). The pentad (group of five) started their ride at 3.50am on April 27 from KPT Junction with two support vehicles following them with necessary supplies. They reached Kundapur around 10am covering an average distance at 27kmph. Their riding speed considering the humid weather was commendable, Ganesh said.
 
 All the five reached their target point for day 1 - Kumta at 4pm comfortably. Barring one rider, who was injured a bit, the rest made it safely. The injured rider was fired up the next day for the second leg that started from Kumta on April 28 at 7.30am. They had a shorter distance to be covered for day two compared to earlier day but had to contend with tougher roads. Without much ado, they rode comfortably with enough breaks and hydrating themselves before reaching Goa at 4.10pm.
 
 With 100 kms covered on day 2, they accomplished their goal of cycling to Goa in their own style. They will be heading back to Mangalore on their support vehicles after couple of days of chilling-out at Goa, Ganesh said.
 
 “MbC appreciates their idea of cycling all the way to Goa at this young age. We also acknowledge the average speed of 24 kmph at which they covered the entire distance of 355-kms from Mangaluru to Goa keeping all safety norms in mind,” he said.
 
 This effort has set a higher benchmark for all the Mangaloreans, who are looking at having a healthy lifestyle by cycling, he said, while thanking the parents of all the five boys, who encouraged and supported their idea, guided them and stayed with them like shadow all throughout the journey. With this accomplishment, the boys have placed themselves one step higher amongst other cyclists in the city and will continue to inspire youths around in taking up cycling, he noted.
 
 
