MARGAO: Just before   prepares to set out for his door-to-door campaign, he steals a moment away from the crowd that waits for him, excuses himself and moves away to the garden, sitting on a wooden bench at his impressive residence in Fatorda.

 The   and   is relaxed, chatting on the phone, checking WhatsApp messages you could tell from his last seen and stealing glances at those who are waiting for him outside the main gate. He takes his time, probably knowing he won’t be able to squeeze time for himself once campaigning kicks off. The Fatorda MLA is up against the oddsa combined force of A (AAP) + B (BJP) + C (Congress) = D (Damu), his rival, he tells everyone but he does not seem to be in any hurry.
 
 Until you see him campaigning.
 
 Once he hits the ground running on his door-to-door campaign in Fatorda, there is no stopping. Probably it’s the force of approximately 75 supporters who tail him, or even the rush of silencing all those who he claims to have conspired against him.
 
 “If we want, we could have had 500 people going from door to door in every ward, but that wouldn’t help us. We insist on supporters from the ward we are canvassing in,” says his campaign manager.
 
 It’s a pretty good turnout in the ward. It helps that Vijai has his own councillor, Peter Fernandes, from the ward and his hand is now strengthened with the support of senior BJP worker Sujay Lotlikar, who contested the last   (MMC) elections and finished second with over 700 votes in his kitty. Both, Peter and Sujay, flank Vijai on either side and there is no home that remains unwelcome.
 
 Not everyone is happy, though, like this lady who Vijai encountered right at the start. “The woman in your office is stupid. She didn’t do my work and I got it done from Navelim. But I don’t sell my vote and I will always be there with you,” she tells Vijai in a bitter-sweet message.
 
 Vijai, clearly, was not expecting that. “All the women are out of my office,” he tells her, before being reassured that her vote is going nowhere.
 
 Everywhere else, the mentor of Goa Forward, which harps on Goem, Goemkar or Goemkarponn, gets a friendly welcome; whether it’s a Catholic locality, Muslim household or a Hindu home that has traditionally sided with the BJP.
 
 “The BJP has no presence here. Of the 38 booths in this area, I lost just five during the last assembly elections. I am sure I will win all booths (this time),” he says.
 
 The Fatorda MLA moves so swiftly from one house to the other that it becomes difficult to track him. His supporters give up all too easily, many opting for the shade before he returns to the corner. The fitter ones try to keep pace with their leader but soon give up; the sun is not really helping anyone’s cause.
 
 Vijai, though, is unstoppable, climbing the stairs of buildings, walking across compounds and jumping from one house to the other. In between, the five-hour door-to-door campaign session, he takes a break just once. 
 
 His wife, Usha, who has herself gone through the grind of these campaigns and covered most houses, has landed quite unexpectedly and seeks a moment. They discuss in the confines of the car, while his supporters gorge on bhaji, pao, samosas and soft drinks.
 
 As for Vijai, he touches nothing, apart from Electralan energizing drinkthat his campaign manager unfailingly hands over after every hour, and, occasionally, a candy that he hands over to all the children he encounters.
 
 If these children were to vote, Vijai would be a sure-shot winner.
 
