VISAKHAPATNAM: With depression being the theme for this year’s World Health Day celebrations, talks are on to include some of the severe   ailments under the NTR   scheme.

 “Discussions are going on at the health secretariat level to include certain mental health ailments under the NTR Vaidya Seva scheme. So far, owing to its chronic nature, mental ailments are not included under the scheme. But such ailments are becoming common and the   too is recognising its importance. Though the list of ailments to be included has not been finalised, serious ones like schizophrenia and bipolarism are likely to be included,” said Dr S  , medical superintendent of   (GHMC).
 
 Community outreach programmes have also been initiated in a couple of Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in the district to treat mentally ill patients. 
 
 Till now, patients from rural areas had to travel all the way to the GHMC for consultation and monthly medicines. 
 
 “The outreach programme began at Madhurwada PHC in March and the service will be extended to Pendurthy soon. Under this programme, doctors and paramedics will visit patients at the PHCs and treat them there as well as provide the required medicines. Depending on the requirement, it will be a fortnightly or monthly event. On the first day itself, 30 patients turned up from areas such as Anandapuram and Revidi. Most of them were found to be mentally challenged and suffering from behavioural problems. A few had depression and schizophrenia as well,” said Dr Radha Rani.
 
 As of now, the outreach programme is funded from the hospital resources but the authorities concerned have requested the director of medical education for funds to extend the outreach activities in other PHCs.
 
 Proposals have also been sent to the central government to make the GHMC a centre of excellence. If approved, the hospital would be upgraded in terms of resources, funds, research and equipment. 
 
 “Making the hospital a centre of excellence will have a number of advantages. We can commence M.Phil courses in clinical psychology, psychiatric social works and psychiatric nursing, thereby having our own resource personnel for counselling patients, families and undertake field visits. We can also start a neurology unit with MRI/CT scan machines,” said Dr Radha Rani.
 
 Owing to its chronic nature, mental ailments were not covered in the NTR Vaidya Seva scheme. But such ailments are becoming common and the World Health Organisation too is recognising its importance. Though the list of ailments to be included has not been finalised
 
