On a busy Monday morning, when most Noidawallahs were rushing to offices, members of   enjoyed a dose of humour and satire at the   organized by the group. The programme saw all the members decked up in saris. Adding a bit more shimmer to their outfits, they all also wore colourful qawwali caps.

  
  Shruti Mittal, founder Noida Circle of Moms
 
 
  Shruti Mittal, founder of Noida Circle of Moms, said, "None of our members are professional poets, but in today's programme they made an attempt to express their thoughts through their poems. This is the second time that we have organized the kavi sammelan but since school exams are on, only a few members could participate in today’s programme."
 
   , the senior-most member of the group, said, "Our group has people of different age groups and that's what makes it fun. I love to participate in such activities as here we can freely share our experiences and learn from each other's experiences, too."
 
  Seema, member of   group who judged the event, said, "Sabke andar pratibha chhupi hai and it should come out. Some members might think they won't be able to write and perform in public. But everyone has some thoughts and they must be expressed and I think such programmes are the best way to do that."
 
 
  
  Neelam Mehrotra (left) and Deepika Kapoor
 
 
   , member of the group, said, "Women get so involved in taking care of their family that they often give up on their hobbies. Such programmes nudge them to come forward and showcase their talent."
 
 
  
  
 
   , another member, said, "We are not professional poets but since we share a strong bond, hum ek dusre ko dhakka de ke stage pe pahucha hi dete hain."
 
 
 
  
  Manisha Gupta
 
 
  Deepika Kapoor, another member, said, "There are many groups in Noida but we try to do something creative every time. Last to last year, we organized dandiya and retro dance. Then we organized kavi sammelan. We always try to do something unique that all the members would enjoy."
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
