MADURAI: As chief minister   set off triumphantly for Alanganallur on Saturday evening, flushed with the success of a  , unhappy protestors said they were looking for a permanent solution. The famous bull sport arena has been the venue of strident protests the last few days, sparking agitations on the Marina in Chennai and in several locations across  .

 Residents of Alanganallur are far from happy about the jallikattu ordinance. Madurai collector K Veera Raghava Rao and SP Vijeyendra S Bidari„ who arrived at the village to supervise arrangements, were given a cold reception. “We will continue to protest until the government comes out with a permanent solution to facilitate the game,“ said villagers, who refused to cooperate with district authorities in the preparations for the Sunday game. Officials, led by DIG of police  , are making arrangements for the chief minister's visit to the village.But, Lakshmanan, of Alanganallur, whose four-yearold bull was trained for jallikattu, said the government should not conduct the game in haste.
 
 “Jallikattu should be held in a grand manner with not less than 500 bulls participating. Proper arrangements should be made and for this you need time,“ he said. “There are only 20 game bulls in Alanganallur now, so how is it possible to hold the game with all the glory it deserves?“ he asked.
 
 Velliamman, 80, and Ala gammal, 88, who belong to the family in charge of the Muniyandisamy temple in Alanganallur, said they had spent time with the protesting students who were keen on holding on to a 2000-yearold tradition. It is the bull from this temple that is first released into the arena.
 
 P Kaleeswari, a resident said chief minister OPS should not be given any credit for the jallikattu ordinance. “It is the youth who fought relentlessly for our cause. They should be felicitated and honoured,“ she said. Madurai district collector Rao said all arrangements would be in place for the conduct of the game in Alanganallur at 10.30am on Sunday . As many as 340 bulls were also ready to participa te along with the tamers. Seventeen veterinary doctors, would be at the venue to check the animals.
 
 Men between 20 to 40 years will be allowed to participate. Fifteen ambulances and four fire engines would be stationed at strategic positions and a police force of 2,500 will be deployed. Large LED screens would be placed at vantage points for everyone to enjoy the game.
 
 If all goes well, the Avaniapuram game will be held on Jan 25 and the one to take place in Palamedu will be decided after consultations with villagers. The collector and SP , who had visited the village, had some difficulty in carrying out arrangements as they were disrupted by the villagers.
 
 
