NEW DELHI:   (CPSEs) and agencies such as the National Highways Authority of India have decided to step up their capital expenditure by Rs 25,000 crore during the current financial year, helping the government increase spending to boost economic activity and job creation.

 The announcement was made by economic affairs secretary Subhash Garg after finance minister  's meeting with a spectrum of PSUs. Garg said the additional   will be over and above the planned investment of Rs 3.75 lakh crore. A major chunk of the additional spending -around Rs 15,000 crore -will be for building national highways, sources told TOI after the meeting.
 
 Jaitley prodded PSUs as they have very low or no debt on their balance sheets. “CPSEs were, therefore, asked to raise more debt and not rely entirely on cash and free reserves for finding new investments and capital expenditure,“ an official press release said.
 
 Last week, the minister had hinted that a stimulus package was in the works.“The finance minister, while addressing secretaries and CMDs, stressed that PSUs may not only complete their budgeted capital expenditure but should also look to aggressively push capital expenditure in the interest of boosting investment in the Indian economy ,“ the release said.
 
 Additional spending by PSUs will ease the pressure on the government to step up expenditure to create new assets as its finances are stretched and many economists are arguing against breaching the fiscal deficit target of 3.2% of GDP . Garg said that based on current trends, the govern ment was on course to meet the fiscal deficit target.
 
 The government borrowing calendar for the second half, however, did not provide any indication of extra borrowings to fund expenditure with Garg saying a review would be undertaken in December when the second set of supplementary demand for grants will be moved in Parliament to authorise additional spending.
 
 The secretary said the government and the   had agreed to undertake gross market borrowings of Rs 2.08 lakh crore during the second half of the year, with net borrowings, by issuing bonds, estimated at Rs 1.92 lakh crore. Garg said a substantial part of second half borrowings would take place till January 9.
 
 The secretary said the FM had also indicated that the capex of these CPSEs would be reviewed at the end of November or in early December.
 
