BETTIAH: Acting on a trail of tell-tale clues, including that from a smartphone accidentally fallen from a fleeing assassin’s pocket and CCTV footage from a mall across the court gate, police have nabbed three suspects in connection with the murder of gangster Bablu Dubey on the Bettiah court premises last Thursday.

 The arrested suspects include a juvenile inmate from the Motihari remand home. The other two are Vijay Yadav and Neeraj Yadav, uncle-nephew duo who allegedly provided logistical support to the killers,” West Champaran SP Vinay Kumar said on Tuesday, adding the conspiracy was hatched by Rahul Singh, an undertrial prisoner of the Motihari jail, and Kunal Singh, who was absconding after escape from the jail in Motihari.
 
 Soon after Dubey was killed last Thursday, Kunal had owned responsibility in reported calls to a section of journalists. In an audio-tape that mysteriously surfaced after the murder and went viral, the complicity of the Rahul Singh-Kunal Singh duo was boasted. The tape also traced Dubey’s murder to an intra-gang dispute over sharing the spoils of   extracted from the family of Suresh Kedia.
 
 A Nepali businessman, Kedia was kidnapped and subsequently rescued last year. A Rs 100-crore ransom demand had been made from his family.
 
 Though the Bihar police had denied payment of any ransom, Nepali media had reported payment of Rs 10 crore in two separate hawala transfers from Kathmandu to Mumbai. 
 
 Police said masterminds Rahul and Kunal had hired juvenile shooters from the Motihari remand home. Police also claim to have identified other conspirators, including Manish Singh, Chhotai Singh and Vikas Singh, all members of the now divided Bablu Dubey gang.
 
 Vijay Yadav and Neeraj Yadav are said to have given shelter to the killers from Motihari in a lodge they are alleged to have constructed by encroaching upon Chandrawat river, an old waterbody in Bettiah.
 
 Police said the hired killers from the remand home returned to their safe judicial haven, but soon escaped yet again as another section of juevenile inmates owing allegiance to slain Bablu Dubey was agitated over the murder.
 
 
