Nidhi Arora, 31-year-old Mumbai-based advertising executive, met someone a few months ago and they hit it off. She recalls how their days together were filled with fun chats and texts. “Then one day, my boyfriend started to reply to my messages in a line or two. Soon he stopped acknowledging me totally and disappeared. I was very hurt but I moved on,” she says. Three months later he was ‘back’ and started to text her as before. “I thought it was over and moved on with my life. Suddenly I get a random message from him saying he wants things back again.” Little did Nidhi realise that she had been ‘zombied’ by her ex. Has this happened to you too? 

 How many of you may have experienced this and wondered what to do! A nasty relationship fad, this is about having someone that you care about first ‘ghost’ you by disappearing from your life altogether, only to suddenly come back ‘from the dead’ — so to speak — with an out-of-the-blue text to rekindle things. This can be quite painful. Engineer Samit Gwalani, who went through this, shares his experience. “Last December, I met this girl at party and we got friendly. We used to text each other a lot and went on dates, too. I really thought she was the one, but after about a month, my texts got fewer replies and one day, she vanished abruptly. I tried   her, but was ignored. I was shaken by it and had to do things like consciously avoid the coffee shop where we both used to hang out, to push away my memories. Six months later, I get a text from her saying, “Hey stranger, where are you?’ By then I had already taken up a job overseas. I don’t know what was more hurtful — this message or when she actually left me,” he says.
 
  
  
 Relationship counsellor Natasha Mehta says people do this very often and fall back on an excuse. “They say, ‘Oh I didn’t know my mind back then.’ But that is false. You do have some idea as to where the relationship is leading, so disappearing on the person after making them feel they are the centre of your cosmos, is wrong. And if you do reappear, don’t expect things to be as they were. It can take the person you zombied right back to a stage of painful memories. If at all you have to make contact again, start with an apology and leave the ball in the person’s court,” she says. 
  Adds   Dr  , “In psychology, we call this the ‘the inconsistency trend’. The person lacks the empathy to understand as to what happens to the other person. More often than not, these people may have another relationship and then if it’s not gratifying enough, they realise the previous person was better and they go back. And the person who gets involved in this goes into a state of confusion. I have had people ask me, ‘Should I take him back?’ The advice is, if you have to talk again, take it very slowly this time and don’t be emotionally involved. There is no guarantee the person will not   you again. On the other hand, there may be genuine regret that has brought a person back, but only time can tell. Use a wait-and-watch philosophy,” she cautions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Perhaps the cruelest way of dumping someone, ghosting is about intentionally disappearing from someone’s life — lock, stock and barrel!
 
  Called the new ghosting, this is about stringing someone along. It’s basically staying in touch with a person just enough to let them feel you are still interested, but not really giving anything concrete towards your interaction. It can be slow and painful and leave you hanging. 
 
 
  
  
 Okay, this doesn’t have a derogatory meaning, so don’t let the mind go there. Rather, it’s about silencing someone by putting up a ‘Do Not Disturb mode’ icon in your texting conversation. It refers to the moon that appears to the left of the conversation in your messages folder in smartphones. When you ‘moon’ someone this way, you will not get their message notifications till you remove the icon. It’s considered a lot more polite to moon someone than block them. If you’re in a meeting and inundated with messages or trying to work and distracted by the screen lighting up every few seconds, try this. 
 
  
  
 One day, you’re talking so much to someone and a few days later, you hardly seem to interact much at all. Though he or she is still around, you begin to feel like you’ve been put on the back-up list. It’s called benching and is common in relationships today.
 
 
  
  
 We saw the rise of this some time ago, where an individual or a couple may actually celebrate the fact that they are no longer together with a ‘goodbye’ cake.   cakes and divorce cakes are also catching on in the city.
 
 
 
 
