Essel Tower's RWA is adamant that it will no longer allow single residents to have guests of the opposite gender over – even if they are related to them. Tenants are now planning to move court.   is one of the oldest residential societies on MG Road. The sprawling society houses ten towers – or courts, as they have been named – which are home to thousands of families. On Sunday, however, the society became the centre of attention when the RWA imposed a blanket ban on single residents to entertain any guests of the opposite sex. The ban is currently in place in all but one of the ten courts of Essel Tower (Palace Court has a separate RWA and has not enforced this new rule). While the RWA maintains that the step has been taken to "maintain peace and order", lawyers and Gurgaon Police, when asked for a perspective, say that the RWA is clearly overstepping and violating residents' rights. As talks between residents and the RWA continue to be at a stalemate, tenants are now considering moving court.

 
  
  
 
 
  Raj  , 27, who works as a business analyst and has been living in Essel Tower's Ivory Court for three months, tells us, "A few years ago, a rule was enforced that guests of the opposite sex will not be allowed to stay beyond 10pm in the houses of single tenants. This is mentioned even in our rent agreements, and nobody had an issue with it. However, this was never enforced very strictly and people would stay till about midnight without much issue. Things started to change last week when I had a female friend over for dinner and she was supposed to leave by 11pm. But at 9.30pm, guards showed up at my door and asked her to leave. It was quite infuriating and embarrassing. Then, on Sunday, the RWA put up a notice banning the entry of guests of the opposite sex in the houses of single residents. This is bizarre and a violation of our rights and privacy."
 
 
  
  
 
  
 The Essel Tower Resident Welfare Association, who put up the notice on Sunday, says that it has been done in response to residents’ complaints and recent incidents where guests of single tenants have "caused trouble in the society premises". "We had to wake up in the middle of the night and resolve issues all the time. Even senior citizens living in the area were being troubled, so we had to take this decision. If required, the tenants presently residing in the society may be asked to leave,"  , Essel Tower RWA president, has been quoted as saying. 
 
  
 However single residents living in the 10 courts of Essel Tower deny the allegation. Sanjana Mandrai, an associate at a real estate firm, and who has been living by herself in the society for two years, says, "There has never been any complaint of us making too much noise or creating a nuisance. In fact, we have started a petition to change the rule and are taking signatures of all the residents. We told them not to sign for us, if they felt we have inconvenienced them in the past. But most residents have supported us. This shows that the RWA’s claim is baseless. Even if it does have substance, there are other ways of reaching a solution."
 
  Single tenants in the society say that the rule is not just moral policing, but a form of harassment. A marketing professional who has been living in the society for a year, says, "UP has anti-Romeo squads to harass people, while Gurgaon has RWAs. Forget your partner or girlfriend, this rule means that one cannot even get their sister in their house. They do not provide any exception, even if we can prove that the guest is related to us." 
 
  For now, despite the tenants' protests, the ban is very much in place, with the society's guards having been given strict instructions not to let guests of the opposite sex into the houses of single tenants. A guard at the society’s main gate tells us, "The RWA president and other officials have told us about the new rule and we are following it. We have a list of single residents aur unke ghar mein koi doosre gender ka guest aata hai toh hum allow nahi karte. Guests and tenants often argue with us, but what can we do about it? The rule has been enforced by the society. Unse bolein change karne ko."
 
  
  (BCCL/   Gautam)
 
 
 Tenants were to make a last-ditch effort to reconcile with the RWA in a meeting on Friday. Sanjana Mandrai told us, "The way the rule has been passed is illegal. For any resolution to come into effect, it needs to be ratified by all the house owners in the society, which hasn't happened in this case. We are meeting the RWA officials on Friday to try reach a middle ground. We will suggest ways in which they can monitor guests without a blanket ban. We are okay with a time restriction like the one that existed earlier. We have even suggested that our guests can produce ID cards to the guards."
 
  However, the Essel Tower RWA seems in no mood to relent. An executive from the body, who does not wish to be named, tells us, "Our stand is firm and will not change from what we mentioned in our notice put up on Sunday. It has been done to ensure peace and safety in the society." Even as the singles living in the society hope that a middle ground can be reached, they indicate that if all else fails, they might take the legal route. Raj Gopal says, "If the RWA does not budge from their stand, we will have no option but to take legal recourse."
 
  
  
 
 
 
