It was the summer of 2013 and new stars were emerging ­ with each match as it were ­ in the Indian Premier League. Many of them were peers of  , the Karnataka all-rounder. Ryan himself was far from the action, glamour and crowds drunk on the opium of cricket's slam-bang version. Ryan was busy sweating through a month-long training and fitness stint in Melbourne, Australia. The all-rounder had already spent a decade of being 'nearly there'. He was perennially part of the Karnataka senior team probables and had often warmed the benches at the   Bangalore and Kings XI Punjab.

 Ask the now 31-year-old if he had been depressed about failing to land an   contract that year, the reply is an unequivocal "No". "I think I didn't deserve it," Ryan says, refreshingly honest. "I was picked to the Karnataka squad for the one-dayers, and probably for the first time I didn't do well."
 
 While Ryan hasn't landed an IPL contract since, he has gone on to achieve personal milestones over the past four years. He did a course in sports management and, on the field, represented clubs like Kingston Hawthorn in Australia, Greppenhall Cricket Club in England and The Hague Cricket Club in The Netherlands.
 
 In July this year, Ryan secured an Australian permanent residence visa-granted on the recommendation of Cricket Australia and Cricket Victoria -and is now readying for a move Down Under.
 
 Ryan's journey is an inspiring tale about making the best of many bad situations. He puts it all down to a training stint in Australia. "Every year after the IPL, I would take a break. But that year, since I didn't have a contract, I wanted to move away during the tournament. The choice before me was between England and Australia. Since my friends in England were busy with university, I decided to head to Australia."
 
 Ryan's first prolonged stay in Australia began in 2014, a decision which involved a gamut of emotions. "It wasn't easy," he says. "When the thought of moving there crossed my mind, initially I wondered if I was merely infatuated with the country. That's why I told myself that I would return (to India) and see how I feel. If the feeling stayed with me then I would speak to a couple of my mentors and then take a call. All the people who have mentored me over the years told me Australia would be great for me. It still was a massive decision. The first day after I got there I was like 'Do I need this?' But later I told myself, moving to the unknown meant everything that lay ahead was an adventure. Also, it was a monkey off my back. Obviously I'm very grateful to the Karnataka State Cricket Association for the opportunities I got. But I learnt that when you are concentrating on one door, you fail to see the other doors which can open."
 
 The first six months of his stay in Australia was spent on sit ting through hours of lectures and pouring over text books. But Ryan also found his true calling during that time. "Sitting in the class room was great as it helped clear doubts in my head. I had always thought academics was the be-all and end-all because I came from an academic background. I was able to connect to what I was taught because of the professional environment I came from and that made me realise that sometimes you are so caught up with what everybody expects you to do that you fail to listen to your inner voice. But I have been stubborn about my dreams and that's when I realised this (studies) may not be my true calling. I was cut out for something else," says Ryan, whose father KN Ninan is a well-known environmental economist.
 
 Ryan soon joined the Hawthorn Monash University Cricket Club in 2014 and that marked the beginning of another cricket journey for the multifaceted cricketer who is also a vocalist and an aspiring guitarist.
 
 "I told myself, I was going to start playing the game again for the same reason I started when I was a teenager. I played because I loved it without any expectations. I went in the second half of the Australian sea son and did reasonably well and the club offered me the opportunity to captain the side in the next sea son," says the soft-spoken Ryan, who re turned to India in late 2015 following the expiry of his work visa.
 
 During his playing days in Karnataka, Ryan found himself out of the team for reasons that went beyond his skills and talent. Such experiences can leave a person bitter, but Ryan, says he carries no baggage from the past.
 
 "I have definitely healed. There is a bigger purpose for everything in life. Cricket wasn't something that was a part of my dreams. As a child, I wanted to become a pilot. The journey between 15-23 years was not a journey I chose. I hadn't imagined that I would become a spinner, join the National Cricket Academy and go on U-19 tours. I wouldn't change my life in the last four years for anything. I sometimes miss playing with the people I have grown up with but the experience Down Under can't be traded for anything," says Ryan, who has also represented   and Goa in domestic cricket.
 
 Ryan's new journey begins this October and he is looking forward to a great season which can get him an Australian   League contract.
 
 "Hopefully it is the start of exciting times. Right now I'm focussed on getting back and playing for my grade side. I love playing cricket and if I go back to doing that, everything else will fall in place, a Big Bash contract included," signs off Ryan.
 
