GANDHINAGAR: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) sarsanghchalak(chief)   started a four-day long pasaidan (brainstorming for world welfare) meeting with the all-India brass of the RSS at   on SG Road in Ahmedabad. Though the RSS is keeping the meeting low profile, and keeping the media at bay, if key sources in the RSS to be believed, the RSS brass will decide on a strategy for the organizations’s role in the upcoming elections in five states this year.

 On Monday, along with Bhagat, the other key RSS leaders in the day-long meeting were Bhaiyaji Joshi, Dattatreya Hosabale, Bhaiyaji, Suresh Soni and Krishna Gopalji.
 
 On Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, RSS functionaries from all states will participate in a phased manner. Those in charge of various RSS-affiliated organizations like Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), Bajrang Dal, Shiksha Bharati, Rastra Sevika Samiti etc., will also meet the top brass during four-day session.
 
 Top RSS and BJP leaders from across the country will also take part in the event.
 
 A key RSS leader said: “Bhagwatji and other leaders will discuss the current issues, need for extension of Sangh activities across the country, the upcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Goa and other states will of course be the key discussion topics. The Sangh has such two meetings every year. This time it’s happening in Gujarat.”
 
 To improve the Gujarat BJP’s prospects in the 2017 assembly elections, its parent organisation, the RSS, has suddenly increased its activity level across the state, promoting it’s core agenda of Hindutva. The RSS sarsanghchalak, who just completed four days visits to Gujarat on December 21 and 31, again arrived in Gujarat on January 1.
 
 On December 31, Bhagat had visited Vansda taluka in Navsari district. He visited Vadodara in September this year. RSS is organizing major events one after the other in Gujarat, which is considered significant in the political circles of the state. In last three months alone, the RSS has organized four major ‘Virat Hindu Sammelans’.
 
