KOCHI: With the destruction of mangrove forests continuing unabated both in private and public lands, the district office of the state biodiversity board has come forward to protect one such area by declaring it a heritage site. 

 The district biodiversity officials have proposed 20 acres of mangrove forests in   campus of   and   (Kufos) as 'district mangrove heritage site'. A proposal regarding this has been submitted to the state biodiversity board.
 
 Currently, the mangrove forest patch in Kufos houses 14 species including Xylocarpus brought from Andaman Islands. Rhizophora and Mucronata, locally seen in Puthuvype, have also been conserved in the area. The   is conserving the patch that is being used for study purposes.
 
 "We are planning to declare mangrove heritage sites in four or five districts in the state in two months. Biodiversity management committees in respective local bodies should pass a resolution giving permission to declare mangrove forest areas as heritage site. They should send the resolution to the board and we will submit it to the government, which will pass a gazette notification announcing the heritage site," said Oommen V Oommen, chairman, state biodiversity board.
 
 A feeder canal flows connecting the RMP canal in the mangrove area, which hosts numerous birds including peacocks and migratory birds. Dr K Dinesh, principle investigator, said the research centre was started three years ago to preserve the mangrove areas and conduct research on mangroves. "But we don't get financial help from authorities for the purpose. Lots of students from schools and colleges come here to study about mangroves".
 
 C G Anantha Pai, Ernakulam district coordinator of the board, said mangrove preservation is a hard task. "People secretly chop off mangrove trees as their destruction is a serious offence. Declaring a mangrove forest as heritage site will not be acceptable to local bodies since they won't be able to carry out any construction work there. Kufos officials willingly offered the 20 acre mangrove area for declaring it as heritage site".
 
