It is not uncommon to spot youngsters in Delhi enjoying a game of football on the streets or in the parks on chilly winter mornings. For many onlookers in the Lodhi Art District, it was a similar sight last week, when they spotted ten young men indulge in a game of football with colourful graffiti on the walls in the background. The difference, however, was that these ten were no ordinary football fans but professional footballers – the captains of the ten teams that will compete in the country’s premier football league, the  . These professionals not only played some street football, but also reminisced about playing the sport as kids and why Delhi needs a football club.

  
  Manandeep Singh (Minerva Punjab FC) and Steven Dias ( )
 
 
 
 Many admitted that it was like a throwback to their childhood, when they used to play on the streets in their respective hometowns. Mehtab Hossain, captain of the East Bengal football club, said, “This reminds me of my growing up years in Bengal. Street football was very common in Calcutta 12-15 years ago. My generation grew up playing on the streets. Ground aur stadium mein toh baad mein gaye hum. But you know, Dada ( ) changed that. His success in cricket made the sport the first love for many Bengali boys. Now, gully cricket has taken over street football back home.”
  and Indian football team captain   added, “It’s the same in Delhi as well. We used to play a lot on the streets everyday in the evening. I used to play barefoot. Ball nahin mila toh paper ball se hi. I miss that now, when all games are according to schedule and on the field.”
 
 
 
 Japanese player  , who is leading the   football club this season, said that street football is the best way to popularise the sport among youngsters, and it had worked wonders in Japan. “In Japan, street football led to the game’s popularity and for kids, that’s the best way to learn. If you get injured, which happens a lot while playing on the road, you immediately learn what not to do the next time. That helps. But now, parents are more cautious and protective. They should let their kids play on the streets and in the parks. That is where you learn to love the game.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The players, however, rue that they do not get to visit Delhi as often as they’d like, since it does not have a football club and therefore, does not host any matches. Chhetri said, “We’ve never had a top league team from here, which is a shame. Delhi, being the capital, should ideally have at least one club playing in the top league of the country. The franchise-based league has a team from here, and it’s doing a good job of bringing fans to the stadium. It’s high time Delhi got a team of its own so that the football fans here can see the country’s top footballers in action.”
 
