VISAKHAPATNAM: Authorities have identified land near Rythu Bazaar at Marripalem for the much-awaited cyber lab in the port city. 

 The city has a cyber wing manned by few police personnel. The government had sanctioned a police station in 2015, but they did not have proper equipment for investigation. “The investigation of the cyber offences are not like normal crime or law and order cases. We need technology support for investigation. For that the city needs modern equipment to retrieve computer hard disc and phone call data. Apart from this, other tools are required as well,” an officer in the cyber police station told TOI. 
 
 When contacted, city police commissioner T Yoganand said land is in the process of being finalised and that construction of the cyber lab and police station would be completed soon, he said. The land identified near   at Marripalem would be finalised after DGP N Sambasiva Rao’s visit in the last week of this month, sources said. 
 
 The 1,000 square yards land was originally allotted for the office of the north zone assistant police commissioner (ACP). The area is, however, enough to accommodate the cyber laboratory, cyber police station and also the north ACP office, sources said. 
 
 The cyber lab will have around 10 employees who have graduated in forensic sciences including mobile forensics, SIM forensics and disc forensics. 
 
 “The lab will have cell phone call data, SIM data retrieval equipment. Hacking and email analyser equipment will also be there. The technology called Triage would deal with many issues,” a senior police official said. 
 
 The cops will also have access to various softwares to connect to social media and internet and GPS location forensic. “We can find out when the offender used the computer and how many mails he sent or whom he contacted in social media,” he said. 
 
 Cyber crime offences have been on the rise in the past five years. The port city registered 250 cyber offences in 2016 as compared with 241 cases in 2015, cyber-crime police station inspector   said.
 
 The 1,000 square yards land was originally allotted for the office of the north zone assistant police commissioner. The area is enough to accommodate the cyber lab, cyber police station and the north ACP office 
 
 
