Nashik: Most new garbage vans have started rolling on the streets of Nashik, but the start to an efficient waste management seems at least two months away.

 Segregating garbage and repairing defunct machines are among the issues plaguing the agency managing the municipal   (MSW) compost plant plant, which it will take over completely on January 16. The civic administration gave a 30-year contract to Pune-based Mailhem Ikos Environment Private Limited on design, finance, build, operate and transfer (DFBOT) basis. 
 
 The agency will be responsible for the total solid waste management (400 tonnes a day). It will also be responsible for repair, upgrade and operation of the existing compost and refuse derived fuel (RDF) plant, capping of the existing dump site and setting up a new scientific landfill. 
 
 In November 2015, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) withheld all building permissions due to the improper management of MSW. Following this, the Nashik Municipal Corporation ( ) began working on it on a priority basis. 
 
 The NGT said the stay on building constructions would be lifted if within six months the compost plant was successfully managed as per the MSW rules. 
 
 “We signed the agreement on December 27, but we had placed our people at the plant in November to ensure that time was not wasted. We will take over the plan completely on January 16 ,” said Colonel Suresh Rege, the executive director of Mailhem. 
 
 “We need more than 400 tonnes of garbage for proper management at the plant. Another challenge is segregation of garbage at the source,” he said, adding that the equipment at the plant needed a fair amount of repair and this would take at least 2-3 months. 
 
 “We hope that within 2-3 months, waste segregation also happens at the source. We hope we can start the land filling by March 1. The NMC should pay the fees as per the norms and within a period of 30 days. For the first 5-6 months, we will not have any income because the sale of the compost and RDF will come later. We have given a bank guarantee of Rs 7 crore,” said Rege.
 
 At present, 35 people are working at the plant and the number will increase to 60 in another month. 
 
 An NMC official said they would ensure that the company got the payment on time. Health officer Vijay Dekate said, “Most of the waste are getting segregated at the source. Wastes from hotel, garden and debris are also being collected by independent vans. Out of 206 new vans, 148 are operating. The rest, mainly from Cidco and Panchavati, will also start soon.”
 
 
