BADAL: Addressing the last election meeting in his segment Lambi before he starts campaigning in rest of the state,   Parkash Singh Badal tagged his main rivals, Capt   of the Congress and   of AAP, as outsiders.

 Projecting himself as the staunchest sympathizer of the people of Lambi, especially Badal village, he said that Amarinder and Jarnail would not even return to Lambi after elections. Apart from claiming to be a son of the soil, who always stood by the locals in thick and thin, Punjab chief minister referred to his old age saying people should not annoy an old man and fulfil his desire.
 
 Going a step ahead, Badal claimed that the outsiders had tried to challenge their pride, dignity, self-respect and conscience by jumping into the fray from Lambi. Before winding up his seven-day campaign in Lambi constituency at his native village, the Akali veteran said, “I have lived all through my life in Badal. I spent my childhood, my youthful days and now the old age in Badal. I will remain here till my last breath. But what about Amarinder, who has come from Patiala and Jarnail Singh who has come Delhi? Could these people be sympathizers of Badal residents?”
 
 The CM announced to campaign across Punjab from Friday till February 2, the last day of campaigning for the February 4 elections.
 
 He also claimed that a man is known by his village. “In my case, people know me as Badal not by my first name. The election too is being fought in the name of Badal not Parkash Singh. It is a question of self-respect and pride to make our village’s name win not the invaders from outside,” the CM said while meeting the around 400 people on Gaggar road in his village.
 
 Badal said in the 2009 parliamentary elections, Amarinder had fielded his son Raninder Singh and had challenged their family. “Despite not wanting, we had to field my daughter-in-law Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who had trounced the son of Amarinder by more than 1 lakh votes. Raninder trailed by nearly 35,000 votes in Lambi, which is part of the Bathinda parliamentary constituency. Now we need to make Amarinder forfeit his deposit.”
 
 He said the Congress never could tolerate his family retaining power. “Apart from Lambi, the Congress had also trying to put spanner in the way of Sukhbir Singh Badal by fielding MP Ravneet Bittu from Jalalabad but the nefarious designs of the Congress will not succeed and Badal family will come out victorious.”
 
