
 
  Around 15 luxury   were charred when the trapped   in a parking lot in a Vidyavihar society sparked a fire early Sunday morning.
  
  The cars were parked in the podium parking of Vidyavihar’s Skyline Oasis Co-operative Housing Society, which had been enclosed with tarpaulin sheets, thus trapping the heat within the space. Fire brigade officials believe the trapped heat led to one of the cars catching fire, which then spread to the others. Among the cars gutted are a  , a Land Rover Discovery, a Honda Accord, a   and a WagonR. However, it has not yet been ascertained which car caught fire first.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  The Fire Brigade Control Room got a call around 5 am informing them of the fire in the 13-storeyed building. The flames were restricted to the parking area but the smoke filled the entire building. The fire brigade controlled the fire in around two hours.
  
  
 
  
 
  
  B D Patil, Station Officer of Kurla Fire station, who had gone to the spot, explained, “It is a known fact that a stationary vehicle can catch fire if it is in a confined space. The leather seats, the fuel, etc are all combustible. The heat must have been trapped in the parking area for a long time. Then one of the cars must have caught fire, leading to a chain reaction.” When asked if short circuit was a possible cause,   said that a short circuit did happen but that was after the area caught fire. The official cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.
  
  Patil’s team had a tough time negotiating the smoke inside the confined space, despite using breathing equipment. He termed the enclosing of the parking space as a contributing factor to the fire. The Fire Brigade will now be issuing a notice to the building’s society as its fire-fighting equipment was not functional. “We will issue them a notice under the Fire Act in the next few days,” Patil said.
  
  Chairman of the housing society, A S Rao, said, “Either heat or short circuit might be the reason. The smoke had travelled to the upstairs floors and the entire building had to be evacuated. Thankfully, nobody was injured.” However, he insisted that the building’s fire-fighting equipment was functional. When asked why the podium parking space was enclosed with tarpaulin sheets, he said, “That has been around for a long time. But we have removed it immediately.” He also added that the builder manages the podium, not the housing society.
  
  There is a dispute between the society and the builder regarding the parking, which allegedly does not have necessary permissions.
