Mumbai: The current fiscal year is seeing banks weighed down by huge  , which in turn is making it difficult for them to grow their loan books at a faster rate. However, in what could be good news for infrastructure companies, four   ( ) could help them deleverage up to Rs 13,000 crore. 

 Of this, about Rs 6,000 crore is estimated to flow into the banking sector for onward lending, a report by   noted. 
 
 InvITs entered into the market last week through IRB’s Rs 5,035-crore InvIT, of which loans worth about Rs 900 crore are expected to be paid back to the banks by the roads infrastructure company. The report also pointed out that another three InvITs —  ,   and IL&FS Transportation — are in the pipeline. Of these three, Sterlite Power’s India Grid InvIT is scheduled to open next week, aiming to raise Rs 2,700 crore. 
 
 These four InvITs, together, could reduce the overall debt of sponsor groups by close to Rs 13,000 crore, thereby providing cash flow relief to the beleaguered sector, the report said. “InvITs will enable infrastructure developers to deleverage their balance sheets and refinance remaining debt (potentially Rs 3,600 crore) at lower costs. Deleveraging will provide a fillip to the coverage metrics of SPVs housed under the InvIT structures and refinancing (through bond/bank loans) and will further improve the credit profile of InvITs,” the report said.
 
 In December 2016, the RBI in its Financial Stability report noted that banks recorded stressed loans of Rs 8.25 lakh crore, or 12.3% of their total loans. The banking sector’s exposure to the infrastructure segment has reached Rs 8.21 lakh crore, which is 12.2% of the total loans. 
 
 “The banking sector has been grappling with NPAs and cleaning up its balance sheets. Bank financing to the infrastructure sector has been declining, which makes it imperative for investors/developers to scout for alternate sources of funding such as masala bonds, InvITs, etc. The current low interest rates regime is favourable for the bond market as well as for InvITs,” the report noted.
 
 
