Ghaziabad: The probe into the January 28 accident that killed four people in an auto after a collision with an Audi in Indirapuram received a fillip on Thursday after being caught in a web of “false information” so far. 

 Ishak Ahmad, the man allegedly framed as the driver of the  , gave his statement to Ghaziabad police, saying that an   had stolen his identity to appear in court. The impostor also used a copy of Ahmad’s driving licence when he surrendered in February, walked out on bail and disappeared.
 
 The impostor has been identified as Bareilly resident Syed Imtiyaz Qadri. He lived as a tenant in the same house in Peer Bohra village as Ahmad, and allegedly stole a copy of the latter’s licence when he was away driving his truck. Manish Rawat, the doctor who owns the Audi Q7, however, insists his driver is Ishak Ahmad. A photo of the driver Rawat had shared with this reporter last month, however, matched with Qadri.
 
 On Thursday, Ahmad met officials of the crime branch, which has taken up the probe. The investigating officer said Ahmad, in a written complaint, had accused Qadri of impersonating him, and Rawat and three others of providing false information and criminal conspiracy. On the basis of this complaint, the crime branch will shortly initiate proceedings against all five, the officer said.
 
 Besides Rawat, the three others facing investigation are Brajesh Singh and Suraj Tiwary, the two guarantors for the driver in court, and Raj Kumar, the case pursuer.
 
 “Ishak Ahmad recorded his statement in the Audi accident case under Section 161 of the Criminal Procedure Code,” said Jai Pal, the investigating officer. “We have made Ishak Ahmad a witness in the case,” he added.
 
 In his statement, Ahmad confirmed Qadri used his driving licence illegally to secure bail. He also claimed that on the day of the accident, Qadri was not in Ghaziabad but in Bareilly, which corroborates the crime branch’s investigation report.
 
 Later, while speaking to TOI, Ahmad said, “Qadri was approached by a lawyer in Bareilly and was paid Rs 20,000 by him in two instalments to take the blame.”
 
 Asked about the next step in the probe, Jai Pal said, “We still need to record statements of some more witnesses following which all five accused will be charge-sheeted and as far as action against the accused is concerned, they could even be arrested.”
 
 Rawat, who is a consultant neuro-surgeon at Safdarjung hospital in Delhi and lives in Vasundhara, has told police he was in the car at the time of the accident but not driving, and had fled the scene bcause he had panicked. After staying off the radar for several days, he surfaced at Indirapuram police station on February 5.
 
 When TOI reached out to him on Thursday for a comment, he said, “I am aware of the development and since there is still an investigation already under way, I will not speak on this matter.”
 
 
