SHANSHAHPUR: Prime Minister  , on the second day of his constituency's visit, said development is his government's prime agenda. 

  Modi, who was at   village, 30 km of Varanasi, to inaugurate the   (cattle health fair), said the  , unlike other political parties, does not decide its priorities on the basis of votes. "Some politicians work only when it gets them votes. But we have been brought up in a different culture. For us, the nation is above all and it's our top priority, not votes," he said. 
 
 The PM, while referring to the mega cattle fair, the first-of-its kind in the district, said, "These animals don't vote. They aren't anyone's voters." But, he said, the fair would benefit UP's animal husbandry sector by providing huge relief to farmers, increasing milk productivity, and improving cattle health.
 
 Modi also laid the foundation of a twin-pit toilet as part of the government's cleanliness drive, and praised the Yogi government for naming it "Izzat ghar," which means house of honour.
 
 "Jis bhi kisi ghar mein izzat ghar hota hai, wahan ghar ki izzat hoti hai (houses with toilets are always respected)," he said. Quoting surveys, Modi said that households could save up to Rs 50,000 annually on an average if they started using toilets as better hygiene and sanitation facilities could prevent the outbreak of several diseases. 
 
  Talking about the Centre's flagship scheme of providing housing for every Indian by 2022, Modi said, "It's an uphill task but if Modi doesn't perform it, who will?" 
 
 The PM, praising chief minister   for implementing the welfare schemes, said the state government had provided the Centre a list of homeless people in need of housing, and criticised the   for its failure to do the same. "After a lot of pressure, the SP came up with a list of 10,000 people. However, after the Yogi government took office, it has already given us a demand list for lakhs of houses," he said. 
 
 He also spelt out the benefit of using LED bulbs, which would help in saving Rs 125 crore per year in Kashi alone.
 
 
