The holy festival of   (or Navaratri) has finally begun and one could simply tell this by looking at the evening that precedes the festival. The markets are flooded with lights, pooja paraphernalia made of mud, home décor frills and lamps and what not. As the country is all set to fast or feast for the nine days of the divine festival and welcome goddess Durga in their homes, we take a look at why we celebrate Navratri, how it is celebrated and various ways the festival is a distinguished celebration in different parts of the country.

 Navratri begins today and is going to conclude nine days later, that is on September 29, with Dussehra following the next day. It is a festival that spreads across nine nights (nava ratri) and is celebrated across the country by all Hindus unanimously. Navratri is celebrated in four seasons, that is four times in a year. However, the Navratri that follows the season of Autumn is considered as the most auspicious of all four. It is referred to as Sharad Navratri and honors the feminine divine power. It is observed in the month of Ashwin as per Hindu calendar, which corresponds with the Gregorian months September and October.
 
 
 
 
 While there are various reasons behind the celebration of the nine-day festival, all the stories from folklore have one theme in common – the victory of Good over Evil. There are primarily two stories which form the basis of history of the divine festival.
 
 First of the two legendary stories is the one which is followed by the Northern and Western parts of the country. It is the victory of lord Rama over the cruel and demonic Ravana, the one who kidnapped his wife, Sita. The nine days of the navaratri see the recital or enactment of the epic ‘Ramayana’ and the tenth day is the final fight between lord Rama and Ravana. Rama kills the ten-headed Ravana by shooting an arrow in his navel, the source of his power and Ravana dies. The same is also presented in   which concludes on the tenth day, that is Dussehra. The celebration concludes by the burning of the effigies of Ravana and his brothers Meghnad and Kumbhkaran.
 
 The second story is about goddess Durga. It is the main reason behind the celebration in Eastern and Northeastern states of India. It is believed that goddess Durga battled with the buffalo demon Mahishasura to restore peace and Dharma. She was successful and her success is commemorated every year through the Durga Pooja. The story is written in the epic ‘Devi Mahatmya’.
 
 However, in the Southern states of the country, Navratri is celebrated by worshipping different goddesses and celebrating their victory.
 
 
 
 
 As mentioned above, Navratri is celebrated in different ways by Hindus all across the country. In Ramlila, there is a ten-day mela (fair) in which the entire ‘Ramayana’ is enacted by stage actors. The mela is set up at a lot of places across the country and people visit the fair with their families. There is food, there is dance and there are fun rides which one can take. It is among the must-see things which relate to Indian culture. The elders of the family also perform chanting of the scriptures during these nine days.
 
  
  
 
 In Durga Puja, there are thousands of stages, known as pandals, that are set up. The very first day of the puja is about remembrance of the divine goddess, her fight with the demonic Mahishasura and remembering the ones who died. With the commencement of this, the period of Shradhh, also called Pitri-Paksha (a period when Indians pay homage to their dead ancestors), comes to an end. On the sixth day of the celebration, the goddess is welcomed in the homes of the worshippers as well as the pandals. It marks the beginning of the celebration of the Durga Puja. The following days is when the puja takes place with the last day being the conclusion day. The tenth day is referred to as Vijayadashami. On this day, an idol of goddess Durga is immersed in water. Also, during the nine-day festival, all the nine avatars of the divine goddess are showcased.
 
  
  
 
 Other than lord Rama and goddess Durga, other deities such as Laxmi, Saraswati, Ganesha, Shiva, Kartikeya and Krishna are also paid homage in different regions of India. The goddess Saraswati is also particularly revered by all as she is the epitome of learning, wisdom, music and arts. The Ayudh Puja, which falls on the ninth day of the festival, is a ceremony to thank goddess Saraswati. After Good has won over Evil, the goddess is thanked and is requested to impart knowledge and peace. All the warriors thank and offer their weapons to the goddess.
 
