CHARMINAR: It was the New Year of 1937. The city was getting ready for the silver jubilee of the coronation of Nizam VII, Mir Osman Ali Khan, in February. Even as preparations were full swing, a large contingent of scientists, researchers and academia from across the British India descended on Hyderabad to lay the road map for the developing rural areas. 

 The occasion was the 24th session of the Indian Science Congress (ISC), which was held from January 2 to 8 (unlike the present tradition of holding the session from January 3 to 7). The Indian Science Congress was the first-ever national event hosted by  . The inaugural session was held at 10.30 am on January 2 at the Town Hall (now Telangana state assembly) in the presence of Sir Akbar Hydari, one of the brains behind the formation of Osmania University. 
 
 The present campus at   was under construction. The university was run in temporary sheds. But Osmania University, set up in 1917, had created an aura of its own on the academic, scientific, research and technological front by 1937 when the 24th session of the ISC was held. Thanks to the achievements of Osmania University, Hyderabad was the natural choice of the   to hold the mega event. The Nizam, who was about to celebrate his 25th year on the throne, extended financial support to the science congress. The Nizam by then had earned the title, "Sultan-ul-Uloom" or the king who admires knowledge and spreads education. The British government had given a fund of 20,000 towards the silver jubilee celebrations. The city was spruced up. This presented a new look of Hyderabad to the delegates. News archives and proceedings of the 24th session of the ISC reveal that the delegates had focused on the theme, "The Indian village - its past, present and future". 
 
 Apart from creating the road map for developing rural areas through the provision of infrastructure, the ISC-24 conducted joint sessions in bridging the gap between similar branches of science - like geology, geography, psychology and physiology. The delegates were shown prehistoric graves dating back to 1200 BCE at Hashmatpet in Secunderabad, Osman Sagar dam, Golconda fort, cottage industries institute, poultry and dairy farms. They also saw the   building under construction. The second time the OU hosted the ISC was in 1954 (41st session) with the slogan "Give scientists a chance". It was followed in the 54th session in 1967 with focus on science and national welfare, and the 60th session in 1979 that deliberated on shaping science and technology in India for the next 10 years. The last time the OU hosted the ISC was in 1998 (85th session). This meet took a stock of the scientific and technological achievements in independent India and the requirements in the future. It's a befitting tribute to Osmania University that the Indian Science Congress Association has selected the campus once again - for the 105th session of the Congress next year coinciding with the centenary celebrations. OU has so far hosted the ISC five times.
 
 News archives reveal that the silver jubilee and the ISC-24 had turned Hyderabad into a "fairyland" with houses illuminated. The city was decked up as a bride. There were colourful lights everywhere. Illuminated houses on   could be seen from Public Gardens.
 
