MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday directed the state’s home secretary to take necessary action for appointing non-official members to central prison and women prison in   on or before August 1. 

 Executive director of People’s Watch, Henri Tiphagne filed a public interest litigation last year seeking direction to home secretary to appoint trained and skilled non-official members to prisons/jails as per Rule 338 of the Tamil Nadu Prison Rules, 1983 for visiting each of the central jails, district jails and sub-jails to address the grievance of prisoners and helping the prison administration in the development of correctional administration in the prisons.
 
 In Tamil Nadu, there are eight central prisons for confining causal offenders, one central prison for habitual offenders, three special prisons for women, one borstal school for youth offenders, three open air jails, nine district jails, two special sub-jail for men, 87 sub-jails for men, three special sub-jails for women and eight sub-jails for women and 11 borstal schools for pre-convicted adolescent offenders. The capacity of a central prison ranges from 723 to 2,517; special sub-jail from 84 to 224; district jail from 200 to 405; sub-jail from 18 to 143; special prison for women from 469 to 600 and open air jail is 150, the petitioner said. 
 
 His counsel   argued that Rule 338 of the Tamil Nadu Prison Rules, 1983 deals with the appointment of non-official member, as per which the inspector general in consultation with the collectors in the districts and the commissioner of police in Chennai city shall forward to government a list of people for being nominated on the advisory board. Such appointments made by the state shall be notified in the Tamil Nadu government gazette and intimated to the inspector general and the superintendent concerned.
 
 But, non -official members are not being appointed by the Tamil Nadu government. The non-official visitors have to be appointed for the welfare of prisoners and check on maladministration of prisons.
 
 The Supreme Court also observed that the board of visitors is important for the protection of rights of prisoners. It stated that the board, which includes judicial officers and people from varied social background and is vested with “visitorial powers” could be an instant administrative grievance redressed mechanism to protect the rights of prisoners.
 
