NASHIK: Looks like this year’s   will be free of water cuts.

 Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) officers on Wednesday said the Gangapur complex, comprising three dams catering to the city’s drinking water requirements, has “enough stock” now and it will last till the arrival of monsoon. 
 
 The present water stock in the Gangapur complex is 61% full (5,842 mcft of water as against its total capacity of 9,350 mcft). This is about 48% more than what it was during the corresponding period last year. 
 
 “In all, 4,300 million cubic feet (mcft) of water was reserved for the NMC in October 2016 as decided by the district committee. The water reserved in the Gangapur complex is meant only for the NMC, Maharashtra Industries Development Corporation and the  . The NMC has got fair amount of water in store, while the industrial water needs are less. There should be no problem for the NMC this summer,” a senior officer from the NMC said.
 
 In the summer of 2016, the civic authorities were forced to cut down   by 30% because of insufficient stock in the Gangapur complex. Moreover, the water resources department diverted water for Marathwada last year from Gangapur. 
 
 A district water resources department official said this time, there would be neither water cuts nor release of water to Marathwada. 
 
 As far as the availability of water in the rural parts of the district is concerned, the water levels in various dams were now at 47%, up by 30% as against the corresponding period last year, the official said. 
 
 The water levels in Nashik district have dipped below the 50% mark. In the rural parts of Nashik, the water availability is restricted for drinking purpose in the summer.
 
 “The schedule of water rotation through the canal system and the river has been planned and will be carried out accordingly. The rotation of water for drinking as well as agriculture will be carried out simultaneously from this year to avoid (water) losses,” a senior officer in the district collectorate said. He added that the water for agriculture will not be available towards the end of the Summer.
 
 The administration hoped that it would require fewer tankers this year because of last year’s good rainfall and better groundwater levels. As per the survey carried out by groundwater surveillance development agency (GSDA) in October 2016, as many as 249 villages and 363 hamlets may need intervention by the district administration to provide some arrangements, including tankers, for drinking water.
 
