INDORE: While the residents of   who have been given flats by the civic body in the name of compensation complain that they received too less compared to what they lost,   (IMC) claim that they have paid 'adequate compensation' according to law. 

 TOI had earlier reported that flats provided to the residents were old and in bad shape. Officials of IMC claimed that the property value where the flats are located as well as the surrounding area was good.
 
 "The law states that we need to give adequate compensation to those whose property was taken. The land value where the flats are located flats is very high. The cost of the land that is left behind in Ganeshganj will increase in the near future," said IMC commissioner  .
 
 According to Singh, the value of flats given to those displaced was more than Rs15 lakh. He claimed that once roads in the area are constructed, the cost of small shops would go into the lakhs. 
 
 "We understand that people are facing problems but once development work is complete, they would be benefitted the most," Singh said. However, legal experts said that the claims of IMC were misleading. 
 
 "The guidelines clearly suggest that the compensation that must be paid to those displaced should be twice the market value of what they have lost," said  , senior advocate.
 
 Dalal said that IMC's claims that they would provide government land behind the demolished property was also not possible according to the law.
 
 The civic body has also said that they would charge a minimal cost for the houses given to them. 
 
 "If the civic body pays compensation to the people, they can cut the charge of the flat from the money they pay, but they cannot run away from paying money to these people," Dalal said.
 
 Some legal experts also argued that while IMC can give property in the name of compensation, the living condition of the people was also important.
 
 "The constitution provides a right to property to the people but providing accommodation is not enough, the living condition of people, area of the flat, ventilation and other basic factors should also be taken into account," said  , advocate.
 
