NEW DELHI:   and taking care of   also involves the duty to ensure that they don’t become a   for other residents in the neighbourhood, the Delhi   said. 

 The court prohibited two people from chaining, feeding or sheltering stray dogs in the driveway of their property. 
 
 It also said that they must make sure that the dogs don’t defecate there.
 
 The observation was made last week after a man moved the court complaining that two of his neighbours had given shelter to stray dogs in their building and chained them. 
 
 “We rue the lack of civic sense and concern exhibited by the respondents towards their fellow inhabitants. Their concern for the stray dogs also appears superficial to us and lacks commitment. Otherwise, the dogs would not have been left in such an unhygienic and filthy condition, as appears from the photographs on record,” a bench justices   and Rekha Palli said, directing the SHO of Malviya Nagar to comply with its order.
 
 The bench added, “If the respondents have taken upon themselves the task of feeding the dogs and taking care of them...thereby attracting the stray dogs within the said property...it is also their duty to ensure that the dogs do not cause any nuisance for other residents within the same property and in the neighbourhood”.
 
 Referring to the photographs submitted by the petitioner, the court said “nuisance caused by the conduct of the respondents in sheltering the stray dogs in the common driveway is writ large from the photographs placed on record. To a person, who is not accustomed to keeping pet dogs, it also causes fear and discomfort to walk into a property where stray dogs are kept either chained or loose.”
 
 In his plea, petitioner Om Prakash said that he lived in the same building where the neighbours had chained the dogs. 
 
 He argued that it was completely unacceptable because the driveway of the said property was not the exclusive property of the respondents, adding that they had no right to tie them in the driveway and “cause immense nuisance and harassment for other residents”.
 
 While the two neighbours argued that the Supreme Court verdict was in their favour and the high court should desist from giving any relief to Prakash, a resident of Khirki Extension, the bench made it clear that the respondents “certainly cannot be permitted to keep the stray dogs in the common driveway of a private property jointly owned by the appellant...and feed them and chain them in the said driveway”.
 
