Surat: The long-pending demand for divisional railway manager (DRM) office at Surat surfaced again with some activists here pointing to railway authorities’ neglect that led to stampede on the bridge connecting Elphinstone station and Parel station claiming lives of 23 people in Mumbai on Friday.

 The activists said a separate divisional office for Surat and upcountry stations will help meet the needs of the passengers here. They said Mumbai DRM is unable to focus on infrastructure development at the stations in western region due to workload. 
 
 Railway Station Development Citizen Forum (RSDCF) has submitted its demand to Western Railway (WR) general manager stating that Surat railway station is the highest revenue earner in western region with the annual income pegged at Rs 400 crore. Around 1.20 lakh passengers alight and travel from Surat to various destinations in the country. Around 30,000 current tickets and 10,000 reserved tickets are issued for various destinations from Surat daily and yet it is being ignored. 
 
 “The DRM Mumbai division is unable to take the workload of all the stations in western region as well as suburban lines in Mumbai. The stampede at Elphinstone station is a living example. The new division can serve people from Dahanu Road to Ankleshwar and Surat to Bhusawal,” RSDCF member Rajesh Modi said.
 
 Modi added, “For even small issues and other official work, the railway staffers have to visit Churchgate in Mumbai. If the DRM office is located in Surat, then the issues concerning the stations from Ankleshwar to Umbergaon and Surat to Tapti line can be sorted out right here.”
 
 He said Western Railway serves Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. The staff strength is around 1 lakh. The route of broad gauge is 4,547.54 kilometres, metre gauge is 1,333 kilometres and narrow gauge is 558 kilometres. The total passengers in suburban is around 35.55 lakh per day, where as non-suburban passengers are around 10.39 lakh. While there are 939 mail and passenger express trains, the suburban line has maximum 1,319 trains. 
 
 
