BHOPAL:   government in   which swears by Lord Ram, seem to have dumped a project linked to the legendary king, to track his 14-year-exile path. The Ram Van Gaman Path launched with fanfare a decade ago still, remains on paper.

 Even while this project never turned into reality, MP state tourism development corporation (MPSTDC) mooted a Krishna path gaman. The track the circuit visited by another legendary figure, Lord Krishna.
 
 Chairman of state tourism corporation Tapan Bhowmick said, “The Rs 53 crore project on Ram is likely to be launched sometime in June this year. Funds for the project is likely to be released soon by the Centre.”
 
 He said, “We will construct day shelter with facilities of stay, drinking water and washroom in the 70 km-stretch at Kamadgiri Hill Chitrakoot, Gupt Godavari, Thathighat and Yog Vedica. 
 
 Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had launched the project 'Rampath Vikas' at Chitrakoot on November 21, 2007. Initially, the BJP government wanted to develop Chitrakoot circuit as the legend of Ram is believed to have passed through the pilgrimage destination and its peripheries. Chouhan had also announced a sanction of Rs 7.90 lakh for it.
 
 The idea was conceived by a local BJP leader in Satna in 2004 when Uma Bharti was the chief minister. After discussing the project with scholars of Sri Ram Cultural Research Institute Trust, New Delhi. He had written to then chief minister Uma Bharti and the then panchayat and rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar, BJP sources in Satna said. 
 
 Subsequently, the government set the ball rolling in November 2007 with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan making a formal announcement. Later, the government seems to have forgotten the issue after an 11- member expert committee filed a report to the government following its visit to Chitrakoot and the places around.
 
 Mithila Prasad Tripathi, then director of Kalidas Akedemy Ujjain and one of the members said, “I realised that the committee members wanted to picnic. I decided not to be a part of it.”
 
 When NDA government came to power, the Union ministry of tourism made it a national project and decided to launch it develop the whole circuit of Ayodhya to Rameswaram, a senior bureaucrat in Mantralaya said.
 
 Following this, Chouhan again launched it in 2014.
 
 Interestingly, when nobody remembered Ram in BJP government and Ram Van Gaman Path was shelved for years, Mohan Yadav, BJP leader from Ujjain and former chairman of MPTDC, launched a Krishna path gaman programme to promote sites associated with Krishna in the state.
 
 An amount of Rs 40 lakh was earmarked to give Sandipni Ashram in Ujjain a face- lift.
 
 This is where the legend of Lord Krishna is believed to have grown up and the legend of his friendship with a poor Brahmin boy, Sudama, has its roots. In all a sum of Rs 4.5 crore was sanctioned for the work which could never take off.
 
