Nagpur: Sending a stern message to those politicizing Pench tiger poaching case, state principal secretary (forest) Vikas Kharge on Friday said it is a serious issue and those involved will not be spared. “We will push for a CBI probe into the Pench tiger poaching case. The PCCF (HoFF) Shree Bhagwan has been asked to send a draft in this regard at the earliest,” Kharge told TOI. Only the chief minister has powers to order a CBI inquiry. Hence, the draft recommending CBI probe will be forwarded to his office. Till the CBI nod is not received, forest officials will investigate the matter. The CBI is already probing tiger poaching cases exposed in 2013 in Vidarbha. Kharge said legal opinion will be sought and all help will be provided to quash the FIR registered by Deolapar police on September 11 against two range forest officials (RFOs), Pandurang Pakhale and Nilesh Gawande, investigating the cases. Kharge was speaking to TOI after a 100-member delegation of Forest Rangers Association, Maharashtra, called on him to intervene over vendetta against them by some local Congress leaders to arrest and suspend them. Satpuda Foundation president Kishor Rithe also submitted a memorandum to Kharge on behalf of all NGOs opposing political interference to scuttle the investigations. On the demand for protection to forest officials, Kharge said, “We will seek to amend Section 197 of the CrPC that before arrest of forest officials in such cases, permission of senior forest officers will be mandatory.” Earlier, while using weapons for self-defence on duty by forest officials, the CrPC was amended granting them immunity. Unless a magisterial probe indicts them, they cannot be arrested. The Forest Rangers Association on Friday threatened to strike if any vindictive action is taken against the RFOs. The association members will meet the PCCF on Monday and will urge him to set a time frame so that investigations into the matter are not hampered. TOI had reported that no action was taken on assistant conservator of forests (ACF) Geeta Nannaware’s complaint on July 27 against Congress ZP member Shanta Kumre for interfering in the probe and threatening forest officials to go slow in the case. Deolapar police on Friday registered offence against Kumre and slapped Section 186 against her. Kumre admitted to have visited the accused in forest custody with some local journalists, but she denied threatening the officials.