PUNE: The Bombay high court has directed the state government to take appropriate steps within the next three months for the construction of additional jails in Pune and   while keeping in mind the need for the next 25 to 30 years. 

 With a particular focus on Pune’s Yerawada jail and Mumbai’s Byculla and   jails, the high court division bench of Justices A S Oka and A A Sayyed also directed the state authorities, in a ruling on March 1, to consider additional constructions within the precincts of these three jails. 
 
 The judgment was in response to separate writ petitions filed by Jan Adalat, a city-based centre of para legal services and legal aid, and  , who was then an under-trial prisoner in Yerawada jail. Jan Adalat had challenged Yerawada jail superintendent’s communication of August 24, 2015 laying down specific timings for lawyers to meet their clients in jail after meeting certain conditions. 
 
 It was argued that the communication was contrary to the provisions under the Maharashtra Prisons (Facilities to the Prisoners) Rules, 1962, and the prescribed timings were inconvenient as they clashed with the working hours of the court. The bench has upheld these contentions while directing the Yerawada jail superintendent to modify the impugned communication within a month. The scope of these petitions was also enlarged during the hearings over the last one year.
 
 Construction of new bathroom and toilet blocks for men and women prisoners, repairs and renovation of existing blocks in jails across the state, provision of modern facilities such as audio system for families/relatives meeting prisoners in jails, relaxation of conditions for lawyers visiting their clients in jails, setting up of district-level committees of social workers and dieticians for monitoring food quality and hygiene in jail kitchens are some other directives. 
 
 The bench has sought a time-bound programme from the state government for implementing these directives and file a compliance report by May 4.
 
 The court said an eminent architect and an eminent person from the field of public health are needed to be included in a multi-member committee being appointed by the state government for making recommendations on modernisation of jails across the state. The panel is to be headed by a retired high court judge and will comprise the inspector general of prisons, a retired deputy inspector general of prisons and an eminent scientist from the Tata Institute of Social Sciences. 
 
 Referring to reports filed by judicial officers, who inspected the three jails in 2015-16, the bench observed, “The condition of the two jails in Mumbai and the Yerawada jail in Pune is far from satisfactory. The jails are overcrowded. In Arthur Road jail, the prisoners equivalent to nearly triple the capacity of the jail are detained. The state government will have to take immediate steps for establishing additional jails in the city of Mumbai as well as Pune.”
 
 The bench emphasised the need for a scientific analysis of the current capacity of jails and the requirement for fifty years in future. The analysis will take into account the data of crime rate in different parts of the state for the last 10 years and the number of prisoners in various jails as of today, besides the current pendency of criminal cases. 
 
 Similarly, it stressed on the improvements needed in hospitals in the central prisons and a policy decision regarding the age of children who can stay with their mothers lodged in various jails. Also, it emphasized on establishment of creche, nursery and kindergarten schools and, if necessary, primary schools near the precincts of the jails. The ruling elaborately deals with issues relating to quality of food provided to the prisoners, facilities for prisoners to meet their relatives. 
 
