BENGALURU:  , the former COO of Flipkart, has served a legal notice to the e-commerce firm over the way he was fired from the company, sources directly aware of the development told TOI. Seth joined   last year as the head of HR (‘chief people officer’) after a stint as Fidelity International’s country head. 

 Seth was later elevated as the COO, becoming the second most prominent executive at Flipkart after Kalyan Krishnamurthy took over as the CEO. Apart from leading the HR function, he was also heading Flipkart’s logistics unit Ekart and corporate functions like strategy at the Bengaluru-headquartered online retailer. When contacted by TOI, Seth and a Flipkart spokesperson declined to comment on the matter. 
 
 In what had come as a surprise to many, Seth was abruptly asked to quit in May. His elevation at Flipkart had raised eyebrows when, from heading HR, in no time he became one of the top executives at the firm. He could not culturally fit into the organisation which is one of the reasons that led to his exit, said a source who did not want to be named. Sources said Seth has challenged his ouster from Flipkart as he thinks the move was illegal. 
 
 “We have to see how strong the case is for him against Flipkart as it has to be judged from multiple legal perspectives,” a person aware of the development said. Sources said Seth’s move could result in a long legal fight even as Flipkart is looking to hire senior executives at key positions. The web retailer has hit the headlines due to a senior-level churn, which was as its peak over 2015-16 when top-level hires left the company within a short period of joining. 
 
 Post Seth’s exit, all verticals reporting to him are being headed by Krishnamurthy himself, while the company looks for new hires. After a difficult 2016, Flipkart managed to close one of the largest funding rounds from marquee investors like eBay, Tencent and Microsoft recently. The fresh funds have given enough ammunition to the home-grown etailer to fight out some aggressive moves and plans by Amazon.
 
