NAGPUR: The   police have booked traffic police inspector Manoj Pagare, attached to MIDC branch, under non-cognizable provisions following a complaint of assault filed by a transport company owner Nandkumar Dhakulkar on Sunday.

 The case is the latest in incidents wherein the city police personnel have gone overboard during security bundobust for chief minister   though he has insisted on relaxation in protocol, like halting at traffic signals. 
 
 In an earlier incident, a traffic constable and a sub-inspector had got into a scuffle with a couple that was headed to a hospital for treatment of their ailing daughter.
 
 On Sunday, Fadnavis was scheduled to visit Dongargaon, around 30km from the city on  , at 9.30am. Around 8.30am, traffic police were clearing traffic on the road when they spotted a stranded bus near Khapri. 
 
 The bus, belonging to Sawan transport owned by the Dhakulkars, had developed a snag while taking a U-turn. Nandkumar claimed they were unaware of any VIP movement and were trying to move the bus from the roadside when the traffic PI reached there. “Our driver was struggling to start the bus, so I had to intervene,” said Nandkumar. 
 
 Nandkumar claims they told Pagare that a crane was being arranged to move the bus. “Pagare asked me whether my father would bring a crane before slapping my face. He was wearing rings and a ‘kada’ which left a deep cut near my left eye. Pagare immediately fled the place leaving me bleeding, so we decided to lodge a police complaint,” Nandkumar told TOI. 
 
 Nandkumar’s elder brother Sanjay is miffed with the attitude of the police. “It seems cops have manipulated the medical report which merely stated that my brother has suffered a small injury,” he said.
 
 The transporters have now vowed to approach court if police do not give them justice for the humiliation. On the other hand, the police seem to be trying to evade any controversy. Senior PI Sanjay Pande of Sonegaon police station said the non-cognizable offence was registered without any delay. Senior PI   said the top brass would decide on the course of action against Pagare.
 
 Pagare was earlier posted as senior PI of Rana Pratap Nagar police station but shifted to CP office in the welfare department after poor performance. He was posted with traffic department around a year ago. 
 
 
