IMPHAL: Chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh said on Saturday his government's first priority is to bring equality in development. Addressing a seminar under the banner "Communal Harmony: Bridging the Gap" at Lamka Press Club at   district headquarters about 65 km from  , the CM said that his government will have a special plan for each district. 

 He added that the government would convene a review meeting to monitor various developmental programmes taken up in Churachandpur and Pherzwal districts soon. Kuki-Chin-Mizo dominated Churachandpur has been on the boil since nine tribal protesters were killed, six of them in police action, in a violent protest against the passing of three bills by the state assembly on August 31, 2015 to meet the Inner Line Permit (ILP) demand. The protesters termed the statutes as anti-tribal.
 
 The last rites of eight bodies have not been performed till date as a token of protest even as the new government has held a series of talks with the agitators. The bodies are lying at the mortuary of Churachandpur district hospital.
 
 Extending his condolences to the bereaved families of the nine civilians, Biren said, "Let us forgive and forget our past mistakes and let us start a new beginning, a new   without having any differences and hatred among the different communities living in the state."
 
 Biren further said the government seeks the support and cooperation of the people to resolve the issue at the earliest, said a statement issued by the CM's secretariat.
 
 He said the differences among communities are seriously affecting the day-to-day lives of the masses, taking away focus from the march of progress and development in the state.
 
 "The government can't concentrate only on problems and issues, it has also its principal responsibility to look after the people who are starving, youths who are longing to become successful," Biren asserted.
 
 The CM assured that a new Lamka Press Club building would be constructed soon, added the statement. At the occasion, the CM handed over an ex-gratia amount of Rs 5 lakh each to family members of the two labourers who were killed after militants attacked a   (GREF) vehicle at Behiang area along the   border in Churachandpur district last month.
 
