NASHIK: The last day of January ended up as a holiday for many students as their parents decided against sending them to school because of the day-long strike transporters strike on Tuesday. 

 Parents, who intended to send their wards to school, faced inconvenience as autorickshaws and school vans stayed off the roads. The transporters organised the stir to protest the hike in various fees and fines concerning driving licences and fitness certificates of vehicles.
 
 Ramahari Wagh’s children missed school on Tuesday as the van operator had informed them two days ago about his unavailability. 
 
 “After reports that the road blockage was planned by the Maratha community in the Sinnar Phata area, from where we pass regularly to go to the school on Nashik Road, I decided against sending my children to school. It is usually a half day at school,” he said. 
 
 School students residing in a radius of one-three km of the school were either dropped by their parents or walked to the institutes. Many children also came by their bicycles.
 
 Bhagwan Yashwante, a resident of Shikhrwadi, said he decided not to send his child to school after reports of the agitation by the Maratha community came in and it was to coincide with the transporters’ strike. 
 
 “We decided against sending our child to school after reports that the Maratha community would also be agitating. While we can give the reason of the   agitation in the leave note of our child, we will also have to get the notes copied from students who attended the school on Tuesday,” he said. 
 
 The absence of a majority of the autorickshaws proved to be a hurdle for professionals and office goers too. There were no rickshaws in the Shalimar area, while a few operated in Dwarka, Nashik-Pune road and interiors of the Jail Road area. Many citizens complained that the auto drivers, who operated despite the stir, charged exorbitant fares from passengers.
 
 The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), which plies city buses, decided to reverse their decision of suspending their services in the forenoon. On Monday, the transport utility had announced that it would suspend bus services on Tuesday fearing damage to vehicles during the protests. 
 
 R D Jagtap, divisional transport officer of the MSRTC, said the decision was changed as passengers would have faced inconvenience in the absence of rickshaw and bus services. They, however, suspended the bus services between 11.30am to 12.30pm. There was a huge rush of students at the bus stands opposite the BYK/RYK and HPT colleges along the College Road. 
 
 “A large number of passengers alight at the Nashik Road Railway Station all through the day and also at various bus depots of the city. In the absence of city buses and rickshaws, the passengers would have been inconvenienced,” Jagtap said. 
 
 In the meantime, the Shramik Rickshaw Taxi Temp Truck Chalak Malak Sena claimed that the bandh had evoked 100% response. 
 
 Balasaheb Pathak, district executive president of the association, said they did not wanted to put passengers into inconvenience, but their demands would never get heard at the state level and the Centre without resorting to such measures.
 
 “No rickshaw, taxi or tempo driver indulged in any kind of violence. A memorandum of demands was presented to officials of the district administration and the Regional Transport Office,” he said. 
 
 
