CHENNAI: It's that time of the year again when students aspiring to pursue higher education apply for student loans. However, the process of obtaining a loan and its repayment is increasingly becoming an ordeal for many students. Sample this: The Education Loan Task Force is receiving an average 20 grievances a day from students this season.

 Most of these complaints cite a lack of guidance from banks at the loan application level, unwillingness to reschedule loans, partial interest subsidy and repayment.
 
 In TN, 9.10 lakh students have taken loans outstanding worth `17,862 crore, but more than `2,812 crore of such loans has been classified defaults, according to data from the State Level Bankers Committee. An NPA (non-performing asset) as high as `2,812 crore (as of September 30, 2016) is holding back banks in the state from disbursing further loans. The task force is an initiative of the eMagazine PreSense, which has been dealing with banking complaints since 2010.
 
 K Srinivasan, editor-inchief of Pre Sense, pointed out that nearly 20,000 grievances have been received since the launch of the task force. “If the banks followed the IBA (Indian Banks Association) rules scrupulously , there wouldn't be so many complaints. Students are forced to run from pillar to post and sometimes across different branches, “ he said. The Vidyalaksmi portal, launched by the Centre in 2015, unfortunately has still not become popular among students, say the task force members. K Srinivasan, editor-in chief of Pre Sense points out that there are thousands of eligible students who are denied interest subsidy as banks do not claim the subsidy . “Although the government promises 100% interest subsidy during the moratorium period, in reality only 25-30% of the claimed amount is reimbursed. Instead, don't give false promises but provide interest-free loans and let the government reimburse the banks,“ he said.
 
 Also, it was found that the interest subsidy is mainly given only for professional and technical courses after class XII. This should be considered for vocational cours es, which many poor students take up after completing class X.
 
 Members of the task force believe that an education loan should not be treated like any other commercial loan as it is investing in the future of the country .
 
 There is a gap between the students and the banks and their understanding of each other's requirements when it comes to education loans. In an attempt to bridge this gap, an interactive session with Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal is being organised by the ELTF where senior bank officials and beneficiaries will come under one roof to tackle the challenges pertaining to education loans.
 
