Call it an instance of   at work or a classic case of religious sentiments being exploited to knock off a plush property in Bengaluru’s real estate hotbed,  .

 A land worth at least Rs 30 crore, leased for building a hospital 41 years ago, has turned into a land hosting religious statues of St Mary and Om Shakti, which have been erected right on it.
 
 Even after almost 41 years, nothing else came up on that land (no 9 in Miller Tank Bund area, behind Jasma Bhavan). But what caught the   (BBMP) napping is that the land has turned into a religious place – a common modus operandi in Bengaluru to knock off plush properties, powered by the people’s strong sentiments towards anything religious.
 
 With land worth at least Rs 30 crore going religious, BBMP is now in a fix.
 
 The land was allotted on May 21, 1976 on a 99-year lease to Dr M Nagaraju for the purpose of constructing a hospital.
 
 It was only later that the BBMP realized that the encroachers and men behind the act of turning BBMP land into a land of worship were not the lease holders, but third parties.
 
 After steadying itself from the initial shock, and gearing up for a legal battle to get back its land from the land grabbers, the BBMP has lodged a complaint with High Grounds police to reclaim the 19,250 square feet land in Miller Tank Bund area, off Queen’s road, Vasanth Nagar.
 
 The civic agency has also issued notices to the owner to take over the land as no construction for the purpose allotted has been started even after 30 years of the
 initial lease period. “Temples, illegal sheds or graveyards coming up overnight are the first signs of any land grabbing. What is common in lakes and lakebeds is happening in Vasanth Nagar. Statues of deities have been erected and after some time, those behind it knock it off by manipulating records. The place is worth several crores,” a senior BBMP official told Bangalore Mirror.
 
 The guidance value in the vicinity is around Rs 94,800/square metre, and going by that, the land is at least Rs.16 crore, a BBMP source termed. The market value is much beyond that, at least Rs 30 crore, the source added.
 
 “Some real estate workers with political linkage have set their eyes on the land. Hence, there was a systematic suppression of action for a long time. However, with a new officer in the revenue wing, it has been taken up,” the source added.
 
 BBMP revenue official, Vasanth Nagar, Krishnappa said, “The land is 19,000-plus square feet. It had been allotted for the purpose of building a hospital and there should have been some development on that front. With nothing even after 40 years, we have acted. Notices have been issued. However as the land has been encroached by third parties, police action has been sought against them.”
 
 The High Grounds police have taken up a case against unknown accused under section 447 of Indian Penal Code under charges of criminal trespass.
 
 “Once the accused are brought to book, the BBMP will take possession of the land. Even if the temples are let out, the land is worth several crores. With the law set in motion, we hope the land sharks will be kept at bay,” the source added.
 
 How much, how far
 
 Though a committee headed by ?chief ?secretary had last year come across around 18,000 cases of land encroachments worth over Rs 60,000 crore in Bengaluru, the documents are being collated to arrive at the exact figure.
 
 However, as per  , and its action plan to remove encroachment of government lands in Bengaluru, there are 1,001 cases of land encroachments falling in category of encroachments less than 3 acres, measuring a total of 788.24 acre. In the next category — encroachments above 3 acre and below 5 acre — there are 70 cases, measuring a total of 270.24 acres.
 
 In the category between 5 acres to 10 acres, there are 44 cases involving 306.30 acres. In the next one of encroachment of government lands above 10 acres, there are 34 cases involving 531.19 acres.
 
