BHOPAL:   has cast its shadow on Mangalwara's  , a favourite hot spot for  , this year. 

 Nawaab, a kite seller whose family is into this business for more than 50 years, says, "There were three permanent shops in Patang Bazaar. Other hawkers sold kites on the roadside.But come November 8, scrapping of old notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 put most hawkers out of business and led to closure of two shops."
 
 The   has left kite makers and sellers high and dry. "We are struggling to make our livelihood owing to highly reduced margins. Initially, our shop was at Jumerati area and later we shifted here because of Patang Bazaar. The craze for kite took a hit and and so has our business. Earlier, sale of kites would start from November, but this year, we are still waiting for orders and customers for Sankranti. Last year, we sold over 50,000 kites during festival, but this year we just hope to touch 50% of last year's sale." Kanpur, Agra, Bareilly and Jaipur are main cities that supply kites to Bhopal. 
 
 After Diwali, almost every Chinese product has been banned in the country. Because of this, children's popular 'Chinese manja' is not avaliable in the market, he said.
 
 Bhawarlal Prajapati, a 50-year-old kite lover, who came with his grandchild, says, "I have been buying kites from this shop since my childhood. Now, I have brought my grandchild to buy kites." 
 
 He says almost every area would have a kite shop during this season, but now it is not seen anywhere. And this year due to demonetisation, there is just one shop in the whole area. "Anu Bhai ki Dukan" is one of the oldest at  . The shop dates back to 1929 when Anu's grandfather used to make kites and sell them in neighbourhood. 
 
 Anu's son Saleem said, "We sell kites to Delhi, Rajasthan, Mumbai and Ujjain. Orders for kites come to us from April. We just make kites, manja is purchased from Bareilly. Initially, our shop was in Azaad Market, and later we shifted, here. We usually do great business in this festive season. This year, we are incurring heavy losses due to demonetisation. Business is down by 50% in the city. 
 
 Orders from Delhi and Ujjain have have shrunk by almost 90%."
 
