A flawless, radiating face is a dream of every girl, but it’s not that easy to achieve. You need to take extra care of your face on regular basis, and go extra mile to maintain it. We generally tend to ignore the basic rules that can work wonders for the skin, and go a long run in keeping skin healthy. Here’s a comprehensive list of all the things to you need to keep in mind to achieve your goal, in short some wondrous  .

 1. 
 : Let’s start from the basics. Irrespective of all the products you are using, it is really important to have at least eight hours of snooze time…it’s irreplaceable. It’s the only time when your body gets to relax and work on repairing the damaged cells. Plus, it prevents dark circles (unless they are hereditary) and avoids premature aging.
 
 2. 
 : Right diet is equally important for your skin. Again, no product can come to your rescue if your daily intake of fruits and veggies is not sufficient. Further, try to avoid oily and fermented foods, and minimise sugar and salt intake.
 
 Try switching to healthy alternatives in your daily lifestyle, and you will start noticing the results within a span of 10-15 days. For instance, green tea is loaded with skin-friendly anti-oxidants, and is a great option to replace your daily cups coffee and tea. Start replacing fruits with your daily dose of chips, cupcakes and cookies. Also, if possible, give jaggery or honey a try as a substitute for sugar. 
 
 3. 
 
 : Whether its aerobics, yoga, walking, jogging or skipping, any kind of exercise that interests you, should be on your priority list for a  , and its benefits do not need to be emphasised! It helps to improve blood circulation and helps in pushing the toxins out of your body. Start taking stairs instead of elevators or escalators, and try walking to nearby places instead of taking your own vehicle. You will start burning calories even before realising it.
 
  
  
 
 
 4. 
 : Now, let’s talk about your daily products. It is really important to understand your skin type (oily, dry normal or combination), and choose products wisely. Make sure your regular cream suits your skin, and is not loaded with harsh chemicals. The same applies for your shampoo too. 
 
 5. 
 : This one sound simple, but is most conveniently avoided. Water keeps your skin hydrated, that in turns help to push toxins out of your body, Plus, it work wonders for your metabolism and aids digestion. Your daily water intake must be at least eight glasses, and you can also sip fresh fruit juices (not the canned ones) to increase your fluid consumption.
 
 6. 
 
 : A sunscreen is the unsung hero behind any spotless skin. It protects your skin from harsh sun rays, and keeps pigmentation at bay. We generally pull it out when heading outdoors on a sunny day. But experts suggest using it every morning, whether it’s cloudy day, or even if you plan to stay indoors, and should be re-applied it in every two hours.
 
  
  
 
 
 7. 
  m
 : No matter how much tired you are or how much make-up you have applied, make it a ground rule to remove every bit of it before crashing on bed. That is the only time when it skin gets to breathe freely and work on itself. Ergo, it helps in preventing breakouts and zits. Invest in a good make-up remover (micellar water, make-up removing pads, oil or wipes- whatever floats your boat!), and follow it with a face wash. In case, you don’t want to splurge on a make-up remover, simply head to the humble olive oil and it will serve the purpose. P.S.: Look for ones that are alcohol and fragrance free.
 
  8. 
  
 : When you are done with removing every inch of make-up, it’s the time to head for your cleansing, toning and moisturising regimen. It is the golden rule to wake up with gorgeous skin, and requires just a few minutes every day. Cleansing helps to remove all the dirt that you have accumulated in the entire day. A good toner will help to remove whatever dirt, oil and debris that have been left behind by the cleanser. Plus, it plays a great role in soothing and hydrating the skin. Most importantly, it helps in restoring the pH balance of your skin and closes the open pores.
 
 Many are not aware that your day moisturiser can’t double up as your night cream. A good night cream is thicker in texture and provides your skin the much-needed moisture. Plus, it contains more concentrated ingredients than your day cream, and in higher doses. You can invest in one depending upon your skin problems, and it will turn out to be a great beauty-booster!
 
 (Images: Shutterstock)
 
 
 
