NEW DELHI: The countdown for elections to the three   officially began on Tuesday with the Delhi state election commission announcing the schedule.

 The three   bodies — set to see a triangular battle with AAP’s debut raising the stake — will go to polls on April 22. The final counting will be conducted on April 25. Addressing a press conference, state election commissioner SK Srivastava said the model code of conduct came in force with effect from Tuesday evening. Filing of nomination forms would start from March 27 and continue till April 3.
 
 SEC will initiate scrutiny of the nomination forms on April 5 and candidates can withdraw from fray by April 8. Srivastava said votes would be cast on April 22 from 8am to 5.30 pm. 
 
 “We have appointed 72 returning officers, one each for constituencies with up to five wards. Four constituencies with more than five wards will have two ROs each. In addition to this, we have appointed 272 assistant ROs, 11 district election officers, 72 general observers, 72 expenditure observers, 1,500 sector officers and about 70,000 polling staff to carry out poll-related work,” he said.
 
 This will be the first municipal poll to have the none of the above option in the electronic voting machines. “SEC has provided a new symbol for  . We have also issued directions to ensure that all polling stations are located on the ground floor and ramps are provided for convenience of the disabled,” said Srivastava.
 
 SEC has set a maximum limit for election expenditure at Rs 5.75 lakh a ward per candidate. “In 2012, the limit was Rs 5 lakh, which we have raised to Rs 5.75 lakh. Also, EVMs will have photographs of all candidates to assist voters,” he said.
 
 The elections are more politically charged than ever with   coming into the fray for the first time at the local level. Also, the delimitation exercise has queered the pitch for sitting candidates. The incumbent  , under pressure for alleged fiscal mismanagement and poor sanitation in the city, is likely to face a tough challenge from both   and AAP. 
 
 Post-delimitation, while the number of municipal wards remains at 272, there has been a major reconfiguration. The average population of each ward has been revised to 60,000 voters based on the 2011 census. Of the 272 municipal seats across the three corporations, 46 seats have been reserved for SC candidates. Further, 24 of these are reserved for SC women candidates. The number of reserved seats for other women candidates is 114.
 
 Around 13,000 EVMs have arrived from Rajasthan. In all, around 16,000 EVMs will be required for the polls. “There are 14,000 polling stations. We have 3,000 EVMs with us,” Srivastava said.
 
 A mock poll will be conducted by the presiding officer at each station before the commencement of the actual process. 
 
 
