 candidate   on Thursday won the   (SC) assembly seat in Himachal Pradesh by 8,290 votes. He defeated his nearest Congress rival, Promila Devi, by polling 24,453 votes while   Kumar, a BJP rebel who contested as an independent, polled 4,630 votes.

 By this loss in the bypoll, Congress party in Himachal Pradesh has hit the first road block in its “Mission Repeat” drive. Congress lost the byelection in the home district of party’s state president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu despite CM   campaigning for the party candidate. Questions are now being raised on the organization skills of leaders and change in ticket of Prem Kaushal, a loyalist of chief minister Virbhadra Singh, at the last moment is also being seen as a major reason for the defeat.
 
 The seat fell vacant in November last year after the death of Ishwar Dass Dhiman, who had won from here in 2012. BJP had fielded his son in the byelection. Anil Dhiman dedicated the win to his father, saying the people of Bhoranj have paid real tribute to him (his father). 
 
 Voting for byelection was held on April 9 while counting was held on Thursday. There were total 73,975 voters of which 46,848 exercised their franchise. While Anil secured total 24,434 votes, Promila secured total 16,144 votes. Independent candidate Pawan managed to secure 4,630 , Ramesh got 974 votes and Kusum could get only 403 votes. In the election, 263 voters opted for NOTA.
 
 After poll result was out, while BJP started celebrating the victory, there was silence in the Congress camp. BJP leaders and supporters not only distributed sweets but also burst fire crackers. Ahead of the coming assembly election, victory has come as a morale booster for the party. BJP leaders claimed that result of Bhoranj has indicated that voters have made up their mind to throw Congress out of power in coming election.
 
 In this byelection, prestige of Dhumal and Virbhadra both was at stake. While Dhumal was facing the challenge of retaining the seat, Virbhadra had the challenge to break monopoly of BJP here for last around 27 years.
 
 
