Pimpri Chinchwad: Air, water and sound pollution in Pimpri Chinchwad is on the rise reveals the latest environmental status report tabled by the municipal corporation at its general body meeting on Thursday.

 The report attributes this to increasing urbanization, growth of industries, and changed lifestyle. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has now called for a sustainable environment-friendly and financial development plan to reduce the pollution levels.
 
 In order to tackle the issue, it wants to take a multi-pronged approach, including awareness on garbage segregation, tree plantation drives, prepare flood lines to prevent encroachments on riverbeds, increase CNG buses, minimize the use of horns, rainwater harvesting, prevent washing and bathing in rivers, ban on vehicles aged over 15 years and stop use of plastic bags.
 
 The Pavana, Indrayani and Mula rivers are getting polluted in the central areas of the city because of the release of untreated industrial and domestic effluents from canals, garbage and ash from crematoriums, states the 2016-17 report. The main canals include Mamurdi, SKF, Bopkhel, Sandvik, Garware, Kuki, Talwade, Chikhli, Sastewasti, and Wakad. Release of effluents in the rivers increases water hyacinth, the removal of which costs the PCMC crores annually.
 
 Due to the growth of industries, PCMC, along with the Mahrashtra Pollution Control Board, the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation, and the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture is proposing a Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP), for which a three-acre plot has been identified in the Bhosari industrial area in T block. A detailed project report is being prepared and a Special Purpose Vehicle will be formed to implement the project. In Pimpri Chinchwad, the maximum number of industries comprise automobile and engineering (3,183), followed by chemical and medicine industries (78) and a few electrical industries.
 
 While PCMC supplies around 450MLD (million litres per day) water everyday, around 290MLD sewage water is generated daily. Although the city has sewage treatment plants with 333MLD capacity, only 241MLD is treated everyday. 
 
 The report also revealed, nearly 70% of air pollution is caused by the increasing number of vehicles. For this, PCMC wants to reduce the number of private vehicles and improve public transport. The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd will add 200 mini buses, 800 BRT buses, 50 Tejaswini buses (for women), and 550 buses by private contractors to its fleet. The civic body has proposed a clean development mechanism to reduce air pollution.
 
 
