Palampur: Continuing with his tirade against the Congress, BJP president Amit Shah launched a scathing attack on the party as he concluded his two day tour to the state. Shah addressing a gathering of intellectuals said the Congress which does not practise democracy is incapable of giving a democratic government to the state. “Sonia Gandhi is worried about the next generation of her family while PM Modi is worried about the nation’s next generation,” he said. According to him, parties should be evaluated on principles, and only the BJP can make a ‘Chaiwala’ a Prime Minister and a person with no political background as the president of the party. 

 Shah also harped on the major diferences between the Congress and the BJP. He said right from the days of Jawaharlal Nehru, the Congress had its ideology rooted in westernization which led Shyama Prasad Mukherjee to found Jan Sangh. “Mukherjee quit Nehru’s cabinet envisaging a better future of the country and not with an eye on ruling the country. He was joined by likeminded people who also felt that the policies of the Congress will not yield good results,” Shah said adding that the Congress was not a party but a group formed during the freedom movement.
 
 Taking pot shots at the Congress party for absence of internal democracy, Shah said, “Everybody knows who the next president of the Congress would be. Who would be?” he asked the gathering which named Rahul Gandhi. However, according to Shah, nobody knows who would take over the reins of the party from him. Meanwhile in the last leg of the tour, the BJP president also met some state RSS leaders at an undisclosed venue.
 
 Message from Shah
 
 No to factionalism
 
 BJP leaders who attended a meeting with Amit Shah told TOI on condition of anonymity that he has warned them against factionalism. Join the party but don’t expect a ticket was his mantra. 
 
 CM face not decided
 
 Shah announced that the party may not have a Chief Ministerial face adding that the polls will see some new contestants. Ending speculations, he said leaders above 70 may be fielded. 
 
 
