Gurgaon: As their repeated pleas for a road fell on the deaf ears of the civic body and the developer, residents of South City-1 have taken it upon themselves to carry out the task of laying a road. 

 The residents of South City-1’s A, I, J and N blocks have pooled in money and hired a contractor, The roadwork will be kicked off by March 15, according to sources.
 
 “We have been asking Unitech, the developer, for more than two years to build a road in the block. He, in turn, has said that he needs to clear all dues before undertaking any developmental work in the area,” said Radhika Sondhi, an N-block resident, who works in the field of education.
 
 Another resident said that following the recent turn of events, the residents did not expect the corporation to repair or build roads in the township. 
 
 “The MCG earlier told us it would repair the road. But now, it is reluctant to start any infrastructure work in the area until it takes over the residential society,” said Anjali Oberoi, a homemaker, living in the area.
 
 According to the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act 1975, the MCG is to take over the areas, which are now maintaine by developers. Phase-I of the takeover was announced by the chief minister in February 2016, under which DLF phases 1 to 3 , Sushant Lok-1 and Palam Vihar were to come under the jurisdiction of the municipal corporation. But the process has not been completed yet owing to the pending legal amendment to Act.
 
 Mahendra Kumar Sharma, general secretary of South City RWA, said, “We have been talking to MCG about road repair for over two years now. They just fill the potholes with bricks and leave it at that point.”
 
 The arterial roads within the residential area, which connect schools and markets, however, continue to be in a deplorable state, making it difficult for residents in the tony township to drive or walk on the stretches.
 
 The MCG had earlier said it would take up the development work in the residential societies even if the takeover was not completed at once. 
 
 Estimates of road repair, including that of South City-1, were drafted. However, the MCG commissioner later told the town and country planning it was not possible to take up the work unless the legal process of the takeover is complete.
 
 
