HYDERABAD: A phone call from police on Friday afternoon wrecked three families -their sons had died in a road accident on Outer Ring Road (ORR). The trio of Surya Teja, Ravi Teja and TRohit were buddies and alumni of  , Kharagpur. On Friday morning, they were cruising through ORR on a sedan to attend their batchmate Pavan's wedding in Khammam. And this turned out to be their last trip with death snuffing out the bonding forever.Rohit's uncle, Srinivasa Rao, a high court advocate, said they met him two days ago to watch Baahubali-2. “Rohit's father died few years ago and his mother, Madhavi, runs a school in Nalgonda. His mother, sister and my family watched the movie at Forum Mall in Kukatpally. That was the last time I saw Rohit,“ said Rao.

 It was Rohit's mother, who received the first call as his mobile was the first to be retrieved from the accident site. “I was informed and we went to Osmania General Hospital. We suspect the accident occurred due to negligence of the DCM driver,“ said Rohit's uncle.
 
 Family members of victims did not find any wedding invite in the vehicle. “ All the youngsters were IIT batchmates.They worked at different offices in India before coming together in Hyderabad. Earlier, Rohit worked in Delhi and Bangalore.They were bright professionals and beautiful minds and it's heart-breaking to see their tragic end,“ said Rao. He also said quick response from passersby and government agencies could have saved them.
 
 They graduated from IIT in 2011. While Surya Teja is a native of Vijayawada, Ravi Teja is from   in Vizag. Rohit is a native of Nalgonda and Kiran Kumar, a native of Bhagat Nagar Colony in Karimnagar. After working in various places in the country , they moved to Hyderabad three years ago. Ramesh, a common friend and batchmate, was trau matized after he heard about the tragedy. Speaking to TOI, he said, “Rohit, Ravi and Surya were my batchmates at IIT Kharagpur. They were brilliant and fun-loving. I was fortunate to spend time with such happy people. I will miss them forever.“ He's currently employed with Google.
 
 Kiran Kumar, the fourth inmate of the ill-fated sedan, was the only one to survive and is stable. He is recuperating at   in Nampally . His brother-in-law, Dr Vijay Chandramouli, said: “Vijay's father, Subramaniam, and his mother rushed to see him in hospital in the morning. They are residents of Karimnagar. He had moved to the city two-years ago and was residing in Gachibowli. He's is still looking for a job.He was travelling to Khammam to attend a friend's wedding,“ Dr Vijay Chandramouli told TOI.
 
 He also said they were told by police about the accident in the morning. "Kiran has been kept in the   (MICU). He suffered injuries on his left temple, where there is a blood clot and there are minor bruises on his body . The doctors told us they would have to run him through some scans on Saturday to ascertain his medical condition."
 
