GURGAON: A day after   was desecrated by miscreants, members of martyrs’ family welfare foundation, including   and  , held a protest on Vjay Diwas, which is observed on July 26 to mark the Indian Army’s triumph in Kargil.

 As many as 75 former defence officials and ex-servicemen gathered at the war memorial in Palam Vihar on Tuesday morning. After paying tribute to martyrs, they said the miscreants had vandalised the war memorial after getting drunk, and this had happened several times earlier too.
 
 “For last six years, war veterans have been demanding removal of a liquor vend, which is set up in violation of all rules and regulations, in the area. But the government has not taken any step to tackle it,” said Major (retired) TC Rao, convener, martyrs’ family welfare foundation.
 
 Lt. General (retired) JBS Yadav said the incident hurt sentiments of families of soldiers who die for the country. “What are police doing? Why are not they taking action against the culprits? We are giving a week’s time to the district administration. After that, protests will be organised,” he said.
 
 Later, a delegation of war veterans met the deputy commissioner, asked him to intervene in the matter and take action against the vandals. They also demanded repair work on damaged structures, removal of liquor vend and enhancement of security at the memorial. Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh assured them safety of war memorial and also asked Huda to carry out repairing. 
 
 Bulbs, flood lights, stone benches and electrical wires at the war memorial had been damaged and shattered by vandals a day before the Kargil Vijay Diwas.
 
 Acting on the complaint filed by Colonel (retired) Mahabir Singh, an FIR has been registered against unidentified accused under sections 427 (causing damage) of IPC and under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property (PDPP) Act at Palam Vihar police station.
 
 “We are investigating the matter and are trying to identify the accused. We are on job and the accused will be arrested soon,” said inspector Praveen Malik, SHO, Palam Vihar police station.
 
