NAGPUR: “The government is responsible for ensuring socio-economic progress. However, it could lack the political will or might only work towards retaining power. So, it is prudent to not wait for reforms and instead take up the mantle for bringing about socio-economic progress,” US based lawyer Joshua Dalrymple told management students here on Friday. 

 Dalrymple was the keynote speaker at the inaugural programme of the two-day conference international conference on ‘Management solutions for socio-economic challenges’, organized by   at  .
 
 The lawyer encouraged students to come up with ideas to solve local problems. “It is your responsibility to fix up the problems in your region,” he said.
 
 Director of  , Lalit Khullar, spoke about how India is growing economically but there is no social progress. “When the social aspect is taken care of, it will help in economic growth,” he said and added, “Study of social development is important for management students because as they are the harbingers of change. This unique opportunity will help them absorb the vast knowledge from the experts.” 
 
 Comparing India’s literacy rate with other countries, Dalrymple said, “Statistics prove that India values education. But, surprisingly, more importance is given to foreign education.” According to him, India ranks 15th globally in terms of cost of education and 8th in quality. “Here, getting a degree is cheap but youngsters go abroad and pay huge fees for courses of foreign universities. Instead, they should utilize the money in setting up their own business here, he added. 
 
 Among the many socio-economic problems India is facing, Dalrymple pointed out corruption as the major one. “Corruption is adversely affecting businesses, discouraging investment and diverting finances. It also prevents innovation as a businessman has to deal with corruption in the system at every level,” he added.
 
 Chief guest Vinayak Deshpande, director of Department of Business Management Nagpur University, said, “So much is being said about corporate social responsibility (CSR). I feel companies are embracing it is more as an ‘excuse’ or ‘out of guilt’ to avoid scrutiny for their business behaviour. Also, we are under the wrong impression that only western methods can resolve our issues. Instead, local people can deal with local problems in much better ways.” 
 
 Dean academics Sanjay Kavishwar and conference secretary   presided over the programme. 
 
