PUNE: The district   on January 12 observed that an   firm cannot reject a   of medical bills merely because the concerned hospital was not registered with local authorities.

 The court held that to reject a claim on such grounds, the   must establish that the concerned hospital was not well-equipped, including prescribed number of beds, doctors, para-medics etc., as required for registration with local authorities.
 
 A bench comprising V P Utpat and Onkar G Patil directed the   to pay Rs 38,050 towards reimbursement and Rs 5,000 compensation to a Dahanukar colony resident (name withheld) for wrongfully rejecting the latter’s claim.
 
 The complainant, a senior consultant with an IT firm, held a valid mediclaim policy when he underwent an operation for hernia at a private hospital in Kolhapur. He was admitted from November 27 to 30, 2012 for the operation that cost him Rs 38,050.
 
 The insurance firm argued it rightly rejected the claim as the hospital was not registered with local authorities leading to a breach of policy. A policy condition defined a ‘hospital or nursing home’ as an institution in India established for indoor care and treatment of sickness and injuries and registered with the local authority, it pointed out.
 
 The firm’s representative, who visited the hospital in Kolhapur, had filed a report stating it was not registered.
 
 However, the Kolhapur hospital denied of the same stating it had more than met all requirements.
 
 The bench observed in its ruling that the insurance firm did not place on record the report of its representative and failed to establish that the hospital ill-equipped. “The insurance firm rejected the claim highlighting a policy breach. It is cardinal principle of law that a party who alleges should prove the fact,” the bench said.
 
 “In the present case, insurance firm has not adduced any cogent documentary evidence to corroborate their contention that the hospital was not well-equipped as required for registration with local authorities. Per-contra, the hospital has produced on record cogent documentary evidence in the form of photographs to show that it is well-equipped,” the bench said and held the insurance firm was wrong in rejecting the claim.
 
 
