GURUGRAM: Hundreds of factory workers in the Manesar industrial area went on the rampage on Thursday, following the death of a colleague in an auto parts manufacturing unit. The victim,  , died after he got entangled in a conveyor belt. 

 Workers alleged the management of   did not make any efforts to provide timely medical help to the 37-year-old, which led to his death. The agitated workers vandalised the factory's properties.
 
 Prashad, who was originally from Bihar, lived in a rented accommodation in Kasan village near Manesar with his wife,  , and two children, including a four-year-old son. He had been working with the company as a contractual worker for the past three years.
 
 The accident occurred around 5am. Company officials told TOI that "the deceased was working as a helper to the supervisor and his job was to clean the conveyor belt near the mixture plant on the first floor." 
 
 "However, he went to the ground floor without informing his supervisor. The accident took place in one corner of the floor but nobody saw how he was killed. His hands got stuck in the conveyor belt and within seconds he was caught in it. He died after suffering pressure in his chest area," said Pawan Singh, company's HR manager.
 
 Police were soon informed. But within minutes of the cops leaving the premises, around 9.30am, many workers of the company abandoned work and went berserk. As the news spread like wildfire, workers of nearby factories - Honda,  , FMI Automotive Components Private Limited, Endurance Technologies and   - joined them. They smashed the factory's windows, damaged furniture and even beat up security guards .
 
 The violence could be reined in only after police forces were called in. However, the production remained shut for the rest of the day and the night shift too was called off.
 
 Employees, however, attributed the death of their colleague to the company's negligence. "The maintenance team cut the conveyor belt and got Prashad out after waiting for management officials to act. They then rushed him to a nearby private hospital, where he was declared brought dead," said Shiv Mohan, a factory worker.
 
 An FIR has been registered against over 100 people under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (unlawful assembly), 323 (causing hurt), 427 (mischief causing damage), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC at Manesar police station.
 
 "Over 150 cops reached the spot and brought the situation under control. Cops remained there till 5.30pm when the company management agreed to compensate the deceased," said DCP (south) Ashok Bakshi.
 
 After intervention of labour officials, the company management decided to give a compensation of Rs 8 lakh to Prashad's family. "We have also decided to put in Rs 3 lakh in a fixed deposit in his daughter's name and Rs 5,000 will be paid every month to his family till his son turns 21," the HR manager said.
 
 
