PANAJI: Heeding to requests by several   MLAs for change in leadership, Congress national president   Gandhi relieved Luizinho Faleiro as state Congress president and appointed Rajya Sabha MP   in his place. 

 Several MLAs have argued that the Congress, which emerged as the single largest party after the 2017 state assembly elections, could form the government “within 48 hours” if Faleiro was removed from the post. 
 
 “The Congress president Sonia Gandhi has accepted the suggestion to appoint Shantaram Naik as the president of the   Pradesh Congress Committee in place of Luizinho Faleiro with immediate effect,” All-India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Janardan Dwivedi said in announcement in Delhi.
 
 This is not Naik’s first stint at the helm of party affairs. He has been the head of the state unit on three occasions earlier and has been AICC secretary for the last several years. A veteran Congress leaders, Naik served as North Goa MP in the 90s. In the last few years, he has been a strong critic of the BJP-led government in the state and also at the Centre.
 
 Faleiro had submitted his resignation in October 2015 but was asked to continue by Gandhi. Again on June 23 this year he asked the party high command to relieve him of his responsibilities after members within the party felt that his “continuation creates a hindrance to the formation of the government”.
 
 Faleiro told TOI that his resignation had been accepted. 
 
 Political observers say that when falerio made his letter public, it was clear that the high command was ready to effect leadership change.
 
 Party insiders claim that the party has been divided into two factions. The move to remove Faleiro reportedly came at the behest of former Congressman Atanasio Monserrate and sitting Margao MLA Digambar Kamat, who reportedly have close ties with Goa Forward Party MLA and town and country planning minister Vijai Sardesai.
 
 There were speculations in political circles that discussions were on between Monserrate and Sardesai to try and bring down the Manohar Parrikar-led government. The only condition was Faleiro’s ouster. Sardesai has denied of any moves to bring down the government. He has in fact, reiterated his committment to Parrikar’s leadership.
 
 However, a key part of the Congress party has not bought into these arguments saying that these were attempts to only weaken the party.
 
 “Everybody feels that the government should fall and if the government falls, there will be no limits to the happiness within the Congress but the alliance partners have never approached us or sent any indications that they want to throw the government,” AICC secretary Girish Chodankar said.
 
 Faleiro refused to take sides or offer his take on the issue but said that his “mandate to build the party had been achieved”.
 
 Naik is expected to be the president till the party holds the organisational elections in September.
 
 
