Bareilly: When a 55-year-old man was brought by   to   on May 13, 2015, the man was unable to tell his name or address. After one-and-a-half year of treatment, he could remember the name of his village in January this year. Elated with the man's response, officials at the mental hospital wrote a letter to the Shahjahanpur police seeking their help to trace the family of the man. The letter was sent on February 1 this year and police located his brother and informed that he was under treatment at the mental institution. “As the man was declared fit for discharge, his brother came and took him back on February 5 this year,” said  , director, Bareilly Mental Hospital.
 
  In another case, the father of a 19-year-old managed to trace the girl on their own with the help of police. As the police in Gonda had admitted her in the hospital on March 2016, her relatives were not aware about it. “However, after four months of her admission, her father got to read a report on her in a newspaper. They then contacted the police, who informed us. The girl’s father came here and took her home in Gonda on August 2016,” said the director. 
  
  In 2016-17 financial year, the authorities at Bareilly Mental Hospital managed to send six inmates home after the authorities traced their relatives or found their addresses. They were earlier kept in the facility even after being cured for want of proper addresses. These six inmates were brought to the mental hospital by police after they were found   on the streets. However, officials said that there are over 55 patients whose addresses are still not known, while more than 20 of the total are fit to return home. Besides, 183 patients, whose address and families were known, were discharged after they were declared fit to go home last year.
  
  
  “At present, we do not have the addresses of about 40 female patients and over 15 male inmates. A few of them can recall only a part of their address such as name of village but not of district. It becomes difficult for us to contact their families in absence of complete address. There are two women, who are natives of Bangladesh and Nepal, in the hospital. As we do not have any knowledge about their residence or kin, I recently wrote to the Bangladesh and Nepal embassies for help. Both the women, aged 24 and 30 years, were brought by police in 2013 separately,” said Mall.
  
  After TOI had reported about cured mental patients languishing in the hospital as they have no place to go, a petition for their rehabilitation was filed in the Supreme Court. The apex court favoured the framing of a uniform   to deal with those suffering from mental illness and their release from hospitals after being cured.
