Nagpur: In a very well-coordinated effort by the newly formed Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), two cadaveric kidneys were brought from the Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital (AVBRH) of JN Medical College, Sawangi Meghe, to Nagpur on early Thursday morning.

 Two patients, one each at Care Hospital and OCHRI, were transplanted with the kidneys. More importantly, it is the second time in a month that a liver from a brain-dead patient was flown to Mumbai Global Hospitals.
 
 Dr Babaji Ghewade, medical superintendent of AVBRH, told TOI that though 44-year-old accident victim Purushottam Vasudeo Gode’s family members from village Satafali in Babhulgaon taluka in Yavatmal district were illiterate, they readily agreed to donate organs after counselling.
 
 “The family offered to donate heart, liver, kidneys and eyes. Unfortunately, the heart could not be retrieved due to time constraint. Immediately after the AVBRH team declared the patient brain-dead, we got in touch with ZTCC which allocated the kidneys to OCHRI and Care hospital in Nagpur, the liver to Global Hospitals in Mumbai and heart to Sigma Hospital in Aurangabad,” Dr Ghewade said.
 
 ZTCC president Dr Vibhawari Dani said the process of brain death declaration took place around 3pm in Wardha. ZTCC was informed about the availability of organs within half an hour. The committee sprang into action immediately and allocated the organs.
 
 “Since there was no A +ve patient at AVBRH in wait-list for kidney, the two kidneys as per wait list were allotted to Nagpur. The Global team headed by Dr Somanath Chhatopadhyay flew to Nagpur and, along with AVBRH, retrieved the heart by 6am on Thursday. A green corridor was created from Wardha to Nagpur airport and the organ was flown to Mumbai by first morning flight,” Dr Dani said.
 
 ZTCC secretary Dr Ravi Wankhede said the Wardha police led by former ACP C Udgikar and the present SP Ankit Goyal, DYSP Madhav Padile and PI Santosh Shegaonkar created the green corridor to facilitate fast transport of the organ to Nagpur airport using a 108 ambulance.
 
 The kidneys were brought to the city by Care team comprising nephrologist Dr Ashwini Khandekar and urologist Dr Dhananjay Bokare, who had travelled to Wardha to get the kidneys. The corneas of eyes were retrieved by Dr Sopan Jaiswal and Dr Rohit Agrawal of AVBRH.
 
 The kidneys in Care hospital were transplanted in a 35-year-old man who was on dialysis for six years. The patient had undergone a transplant in 2011 once with kidney donated by his brother. But the kidney failed in a year and he was now first on the wait list of the hospital. Dr Bokare and Dr Ravi Deshmukh performed the transplant.
 
 Manjri Damle, transplant coordinator at OCHRI, said urosurgeon Dr Suhas Salpekar and vascular surgeon Dr Rohit Gupta operated on the recipient with support from anaesthetists Dr Smita Harkare and Dr Neeta Deshpande.
 
 The patient at AVBRH was being treated by neurosurgeon Dr Sandeep Iratwar who, with his team, declared the patient brain-dead at around 3pm on Wednesday. Surgeon Dr Chandrashekhar Mahakalkar, urosurgeon Dr Satish Khadse, along with anaesthetists Dr Prasad Ingle and Dr Ashok Chaudharim helped in organ retrieval. Ashish Khetan, Dr Rupali Naik, Aditya Bhargava, Ahmindra Jain and Rajesh Sawalakhe helped in facilitating the process of organ transfer.
 
 
