Colleges organising seminars on leadership skills, managerial abilities and career-management are a regular thing. But how often do students take the initiative to organise talks on gender issues? Rarely! Thus, when   organised a lecture on   by transgender activist  , it was a big moment for the students. They made the most of the opportunity, as the interaction changed their outlook towards the third gender community as a whole. 
It was when Gauri made a path-breaking statement through a national TVC, advocating the rights of the transgender community, that avenues for fellow transgenders opened up. During the lecture at UPG college, she talked about the trials and tribulations faced by them. Aptly titled ‘Gauri Ki Kahaani, Gauri Ki Zubaani’, the 90-minute long session organised by the college’s Women’s Development Cell, had close to 120 students, along with the staff of the college, listening to her in rapt attention. We prodded them on the lessons they took home, and here’s what they had to say... 
 
 
 
 The session was generously sprinkled with tears, cheers and applause. Second Year Mass Media student Pranil Tailor said, “Our society always discriminates against those different from us. It was heart-breaking to know their condition and how our society reacts to the community. Her lecture was an eye-opener. She is an epitome of energy and good vibes. By the end of the session, our outlook towards them changed completely. I think the next time I encounter one of them, I’m going to walk up to them, compliment them and take a selfie. That will certainly cheer them up, at least a little bit, amidst all the prejudice they face daily.” 
 The session also shed light on the topic of equal rights. Pooja Satra, a Third Year Mass Media student, said, “We tend to make these baseless and ill-informed comments about transgenders. But her lecture made me realise how every human being, be it a male, female or third gender, is justified in fighting for their right to education. The way she conducted herself was empowering, so much so that some of us were left with goosebumps and tears!”
 
 
 
 Principal Anju Kapoor had a meeting scheduled, and was supposed to attend the session with Gauri only for sometime. But Gauri’s talk was so enlightening that she ended up sitting through it till the very end! Babita Kachroo, assistant professor, BSc IT said, “It was inspiring to see Gauri take everything that’s happened to her in her stride. She has gone out of her way and actually made a difference. Each year, we have   workshops and seminars, but this was the first time we had a session on the third gender. These are lessons that no teacher can
 ever teach.”
 It was not just the students, but also professors, who had lessons to take home. Said Professor Archana Mehra, “Gauri’s emphasis was on educating members of the community. I hope our education system comes up with policies and rules designed for them. As teachers, we are always expected to be unbiased and non-judgmental, but we need to put that in practice!” 
 
 
 Gauri, who has visited several colleges to deliver talks on gender sensitisation issues, is amazed at the response. “The youth today is not afraid to speak their mind, and that’s one reason I enjoy interacting with them. They are more accepting, they do not judge based on the skewed sense of the society and they aren’t afraid to speak about their sexuality. It was great to see that they weren’t scandalised by my talk. It is important to address these youngsters as they are the ones who are going to make a difference. Baat karne se hi baat banti hai. We need to sensitise not just the youngsters but also the educators about how they should be handling scenarios when they have students from the third gender community alongside male and female students.”
 
