 

 From her energetic moves to expressive gestures, she converses in a unique language.   Sheth, a prominent contemporary   who has offered 
  in the temples of Radha Raman of Vrindavan initially, has now brought a range of motions that echo staid tradition and quaint offshoots only to guarantee the enthusiasts to leave the show in high spirits. Recently, she was in the city and we could not miss an opportunity to speak to this renowned danseuse. Excerpts: 
 
  
 
 
  To me, exploration is a word as well as a movement that is close to my heart. Where and how it happens does not matter. I love to celebrate all the forms of movement be it from a folk artist, from a classical dancer or from athletes or sprinters. Why create separation when it is free from any barriers. Discrimination would only lose the essence of the movement. 
 
  
 
 
  Any new creation undergoes a vigorous process. It is exciting to evolve a whole new language. To incorporate playfulness and uniqueness to the performances, my husband Devisarro along with his team brought the new elements to the music. We took inspiration from our
 
  days of Vrindavan, where I used to dance on every possible instrument like pakhavaj, zanj, tabla, etc. It was a beautiful chaos that I always wanted to recreate in my performances. 
 
  
 
 
  Freedom. Though I always had it, I would want to include more and more of it in my creations. I do not ever wish to work under pressure of proving self to someone. I have put in tremendous efforts and have completely survived on my performances. I just want to be the best and serve the finest form of art. 
 
  
 
 
  Well, the response has been fabulous when it comes to our performances. I remember while performing 
 
  in Denmark, a young boy traveled all the way to Ireland to know more of us. Also, a teen girl from Brazil, in spite of not knowing the language was taken aback by our performance. She was crying so hard that I literally had to hold her. I have so many memories from our Radha Raman days. We used to feed this huge and beautiful cow ‘Ganga’ there. She used to be at the entrance of the temple every day on a specific time of my 
 
 . 
 
  
 
 
  Every show is different, even if it’s dealing with one concept. Like 
  creates its own folds while in movement and stillness, none of the steps of the performances are same. While a concept is the essence of creation, I always had fascination for this country’s rich culture. The amount of poetries that we have, gods that exist and epics that are narrated is amazing. 
  
  
 
 
  Art is a savior! While the main idea of doing 
  was to give proper attention to the weavers of this country, I can proudly say that we have been successful in reviving three patterns of 
  that were on the verge of becoming nonexistent. Art represents people of the society and society represents art. So, using art as a medium would definitely help us built a healthy society. 
 
  
 
 
  I define myself as a simple person. Like people run ‘behind’ the materialistic pursuits, I run ‘away’ from them. I do not like shopping. In whatever spare time that I hardly get, I utilize it to create myself as a person. I ask and answer questions to self. 
 
 
