KOLHAPUR: The   (UGC) has invited proposals from existing government, private and the sponsoring institutions to set up Institution of Eminence (IOE). The   guidelines regarding   were released earlier this week.

 “The objective is to provide greater academic, financial, administrative and other regulatory autonomy to 10 public and 10 private higher educational institutions to emerge as world class teaching and research institutions,” reads a UGC press statement released on Tuesday.
 
 The institutions declared as IOE will be free from the usual regulatory mechanism to choose their path to become institutions of global repute. Their emphasis will be on multi-disciplinary initiatives, high quality research, global best practices and international collaborations.
 
 The government educational institutions selected as public institutions of eminence under this scheme will be given financial incentives. Those selected as private and sponsoring organisations will be declared as Institutions of Eminence, deemed to be universities.
 
 Apart from regular courses, the institutes desirous of the IOE grants should also offer various inter-disciplinary courses. They would include in areas of emerging technology and interest as well as those of relevance to the development concerns of the country. The institute should also have a good proportion of foreign or foreign quality faculty.
 
 The UGC guidelines suggest that the IOE institute should come in the top 500 of any of the world renowned ranking frameworks within the first 10 years. Furthermore, the institute should consistently improve its ranking to come in the top 100 eventually over time.
 
 The financial assistance would be up to an amount of Rs 1,000 crore or 50-75% of the requirement projected in the perspective and detailed plans in a span of five years.
 
 On the eligibility, it said that a total 10 institutions under this category shall be selected to be declared as Institutions of Eminence. These institutions would be a mix of technical, management and arts institutions. 
 
 
