GURUGRAM: Massive   took place in DLF Phase 2 on Thursday evening, so much so that residents could not venture out of their homes for over two hours. A complaint has been launched with the  , which has assured residents of action.

 Residents said the area remained engulfed in smoke for at least two hours in the evening after massive quantities of waste was burnt in the open. “It was difficult to get out of home. As my 10-year-old daughter has a respiratory ailment, I didn’t allow her to step out to the playground,” said Asifa, a resident.
 
 Some residents said DLF Phase 2 has become a dumping ground for waste. “Vacant plots are being used for waste dumping. I think the authorities have no other place to dump the waste as the Bandhwari solid waste treatment plant has been lying defunct for the past three years,” said Preeti Kaur, another resident.
 
 A few residents even alleged that the waste was put on fire by sanitation workers only. “I have many a time seen MCG contractors putting the waste on fire,” said D Mahesh, another resident.
 
 However, when residents approached the MCG, officials assured them of immediate action.
 
 “We have instructed all our contractors to never put waste on fire in the open. However, if waste burning has taken place, we will carry out an investigation and make sure that strict action is taken against the offenders,” said an official from MCG. “There is a provision of charging penalty of Rs 5,000 if anyone is found to be burning waste,” he added.
 
 In April 2016, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) passed an order, instructing commissioners of Faridabad and   police to deploy guards on both sides of the Aravali range in the two districts to prevent waste burning. And in December last year, the green court imposed a complete ban on   in open places and announced a fine of Rs 25,000 on each incident of bulk waste burning and Rs 5,000 in case of simple waste burning.
 
 City-based doctors said waste burning poses a serious threat to public health.
 
 “The burning of waste in the open leads to discharge of poisonous gases, impacting the health of residents, particularly triggering asthma and respiratory diseases. People who are already suffering from respiratory diseases have to be more careful. There is an urgent need to prevent waste burning,” said Dr Astha Bharadwaj, a pulmonologist.
 
 
