Nagpur: A year ago, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, with much fanfare, launched Nagpur district as first digital district in the state. Under the Digital India plan pushed by prime minister Narendra Modi, 500 gram panchayats in the district were provided Wi-Fi connections for Internet use. The digital dream has gone awry. Service provider Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) snapped the Wi-Fi links for non-payment of dues amounting to nearly Rs8 crore by the district collectorate. The connections were deactivated in May, but till date, the district administration and state government have not bothered to make even a part-payment to get the links restored. This came to fore at an official meeting that Ramtek MP Krupal Tuamane convened on Monday to find out why the online forms of farmers were taking so much time to fill. The disconnection has hit the farmers most as the government had set September 15 as deadline for them to file online applications under the loan waiver scheme. Political leaders have been complaining that the farmers had to sit in queues from morning to evening to get their forms submitted. “I was so frustrated that I sought a meeting with BSNL officials. I was shocked to find out the reason for which Wi-Fi links of the 500 gram panchayats were disconnected,” said Tumane. Perhaps, being home district of the chief minister went in favour of Nagpur getting the honour of becoming first Internet connected district in August 2016. Out of its 700 gram panchayats, main 500 were provided with Wi-Fi connections by the BSNL under Bharat Net project. Though BSNL provided service for last three quarters, the government paid only for the first quarter and has not cleared dues for the last six months totalling 7.97 crores. Repeated reminders by the BSNL head in Nagpur, and further by the chief general manager in Mumbai, who pursued the matter directly with principal secretary of state IT department, yielded no results.  “BSNL wanted to disconnect Wi-Fi services in April itself but considering that prime minister Modi was visiting the city that time and it would embarrass him the way his Digital India dream was punctured by callous officials of the state, we put off the action,” said reliable sources in the telecom company. For a long time, the government officials sought time citing that it is CM’s prestige at stake in his home turf.