Lairai, a folk deity worshipped in  , Bicholim, has been uniting devotees in the Konkan region, beyond castes and tribes. The festive period also encourages communal harmony among different communities in the region.

 In Goa, villages of Mulgao, Kudnem and Mayem are known for the festival of Dhond, wherein devotees of Kelbai, Mahalakshmi, and Maya Kelbai, respectively, walk bare feet through burning charcoal on the ocassion of the annual celebration. Most of the Dhondachi zatra festivals are confined to the particular villages, where as the festival of   from Shirgao attracts large number of devotees from various villages from Goa and the Konkan region. 
 
 This zatra is the only festival where devotees belonging to different communities forget their differences based on the caste, tribe, gender and take part whole-heartedly in the festivities. 
 
 Pavan Varak, from Bhuipal, Sattari, told   “In the Dhangarwada hamlet, we have created a shade where devotees come together and for five days to relish on various vegetarian dishes cooked by the community. We sing devotional songs, sleep outside our homes in the shade especially erected for the celebration, experiencing the peaceful atmosphere as a community”. 
 
 “In our family, we have a tradition, where, for almost a month, we eat vegetarian food. We also bathe two to three times a day, and take shelter under trees near water bodies,” said Siddesh Gawas from Shiroli, who is a teacher by profession and has been participating in the festival for over a decade. 
 
 Devotees wear traditional costumes, carry a coloured piece of cloth on their backs and a stick of entwined cane in their hands, as they gather together on the fifth day of the first fortnight of the second month of the Hindu calendar, Vaishakh. The devotees bathe in the holy tank before entering the temple of Lairai.
 
 Goddess Lairai receives the emissaries of several other deities of the villages in the vicinity with the offering laid down by custom.
 
 At midnight, a huge pyre of firewood is erected and a Brahmin priest, who carries the sacred pot, throws into it a lighted stick and thus initiates the burning of the pyre. After performing various rituals, devotees get onto the pyre with a lot of enthusiasm and devotion, walking on burning charcoal. 
 
 
