Mumbai: Large businesses, that are struggling due to their inability to service debt, are likely to get back on track as a result of the ordinance issued by the government on Friday. The ordinance empowers the   to direct banks to resolve   and amends key banking laws to provide flexibility to banks.

 Banks are expected to go for the large 50-odd corporates that account for 50% of the troubled loans of Rs 10 lakh crore. Speaking to TOI, Chanda Kochhar, MD & CEO,  , said, “Since the   are concentrated, by handling a few large cases you can make a very substantial impact.” 
 
 She added that the real value of the restructuring exercise would bring businesses back into a working position. “Banks will need to have different types of restructuring for different cases depending on cases. Today, if restructuring takes place with conversion of loans into equity it might look like a haircut. But tomorrow, the equity value can also go up. This will help banks decide on various options,” she added.
 
 According to   chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya, the recent legislative changes indicate the government’s firm commitment to find a satisfactory solution to the NPA resolution problem. “Empowering the RBI with an explicit mandate should reorient various stakeholders for effective NPA resolution. The country and its banking system need to move quickly and decisively to take benefits of these enabling provisions.”
 
 Karthik Srinivasan, group head (financial sector ratings),  , said, “As against earlier provisions of issuing general directions to banks, the RBI can now issue directions, borrower-specific instructions to banks to initiate the resolution under the provisions of insolvency and bankruptcy code, 2016. Government, on its part, has enabled the RBI to issue such directions. Initiation of proceedings under the bankruptcy code may force borrowers and lenders to come onto a common platform and accelerate the resolution.”
 
 Ratings agency   said, “Of the total stressed assets, top 100 exposures would account for a significant chunk of NPAs. Due to the amendment to  , the RBI can direct banks to focus on these top accounts and thus initiate resolution process under the Bankruptcy Code, thereby fast-tracking the recovery process.”The report points out that while the Bankruptcy code has been notified in December, 2016, so far not many proposals have been filed under the same. “We expect with this amendment and the regulatory backing, the pace of filing to quicken. Further, wilful defaulters would find it difficult to take shield from the lengthy legal process and inaction on part of individual banks,” the report said.
 
 
