NEW DELHI: The   attributed the   of the party’s student wing in the Delhi University Students’ Union elections on Wednesday to the speech given by Congress vice-president   Gandhi in the US the previous day just as voting was under way.

 Elaborating, Delhi Congress president Ajay Maken said, “The students listened to the address of PM Narendra Modi on September 11 and Rahul Gandhi's speech on September 12. Rahul Gandhi's speech clicked with the students but they did not like Modi's speech. Impressed with Rahul Gandhi’s speech, the students voted for  .” On Monday, Modi had addressed students on the 125th anniversary of Swami Vivekananda's Chicago address, while Gandhi spoke at University of California in Berkeley on Tuesday.
 
 It was after four years that NSUI won the top posts of   president and vice president, while restricting ABVP to two posts. NSUI's Rocky Tuseed won the president's post defeating ABVP's Rajat Choudhary, while Kunal Sehrawat is the new vice-president.
 
 Saying that there was a well-planned exercise to defeat NSUI in DU, Maken also claimed the central government and BJP had intervened to tamper with the result for the joint secretary’s balloting. He said there was an unofficial announcement that NSUI candidates had emerged victorious in the posts of president, vice-president and joint-secretary. “After a designed protest by ABVP, re-counting was done without camera scrutiny and the ABVP candidate declared the new joint secretary with a narrow margin,” alleged Maken.
 
 He said Congress would move court if recounting was not carried out. The party also sensed mischief in the day selected for polling. “For the first time in DUSU election history, the polls were held on a weekday instead of the weekend,” charged Maken. “It was scheduled so that students could listen to Modi’s speech before polling.”
 
 Maken, a former Union minister, rejected criticism of Rahul Gandhi's views on dynastic politics made during the Berkeley speech. “The section of social media where the speech was criticised, as Rahul Gandhi himself pointed out, is controlled by 1,000 people behind computer screens. They are managed by the person who is supposed to manage the country. That is something the students understood pretty well and they responded to it,” Maken told TOI.
 
 Gandhi had defended the charge of being a dynast and said that this was true of other parties as well and customary of how India was run. In turn, BJP accused the Congress leader of being a "failed dynast".
 
 
