LUCKNOW:   Gayatri Prajapati went underground as police closed in on him on Tuesday in connection with a rape case lodged against him on the directions of the  . A police team dispatched to Prajapti's native town Amethi, from where he is contesting as a   candidate, returned empty-handed. The minister remained unavailable at his official bungalow in Lucknow, too, when police searched the premises -identified as the scene of crime by the complainant -for evidence.

 “We had sent a police team to Amethi on Tuesday morning to record his state ment, only to be told that he had left for Lucknow. But he hasn't reached Lucknow and was not available when a police team visited the house,“ Lucknow senior superintendent of police Manzil Saini told TOI, confirming that the minister is absconding. “As of now, we have to record his statements but if he continu es to evade the police, we will have to go for other options,“ she said, not ruling out the possibilities of investigators approaching the court for a formal warrant against him.
 
 The police on Tuesday evening visited Prajapati's residence and recorded statements of the security guards and domestic helps of the minister. Investigators also verified details of the premises as described by the complainant. Police sources said investigators were not taking any chance with regards to collecting evidence as the probe was being monitored by the Supreme Court which has sought a detailed report of the investigations into the case by April 7.
 
 Sources said, police have also collected the call detail record (CDR) of Prajapti's cellphone to trace his movements.
 
 “Efforts are on to locate the police escort provided to him as minister and trace Prjapati,“ said a senior officer. Lucknow DIG Praveen Kumar said though the complainant, who has accused Prajapati of rape has got her statement recorded before the court, the investigators had yet to record the statements of her minor daughter who is undergoing treatment at AIIMS in Delhi. The investigating officer (IO) will go to Delhi soon to record her statement after due clearance from the doctors attending to her,“ he said. In case the minor was not willing to depose before the police, the investigators would approach the doctors to take her statement which is admissible in court.
 
 In her complaint, the survivor had alleged that Prajapati and his aides had gangraped her and tried to rape her 17-year-old daughter as well.
 
 The minister was booked un der provisions of the strin gent Protection of Children From Sexual Offences (POC SO) Act apart from other sec tions of IPC, including rape.
 
 Police said once the minor's statement was recorded, Gayatri's arrest would be im minent.
 
 The Supreme Court had, on February 17, directed the UP Police to register a case against Prajapati on the complaint of a Chitrakoot resident who has alleged that the minister had exploited her sexually.
 
