NAGPUR: The   Government Medical College and Hospital ( ) started a Day Care Centre for   Disease ( ) and Thalassemia patients on Monday. 

 The centre, which will remain open from 10 am to 5 pm, aims to provide basic treatment like blood transfusion and pain management for patients suffering from these diseases.
 
 College dean Dr Anuradha V Shrikhande told TOI that the centre will go a long way in providing the much-needed relief to patients of SCD and thalassemia in the city and region. “Central India has a huge number of these patients who suffer from these genetic blood disorders but do not have money for medicines or blood transfusion. The centre will provide both medical treatment like pain management and blood transfusion to the patients,” she said.
 
 The centre was formally inaugurated by Dr Milind Mane, the north Nagpur MLA who has been working for the uplift of the SCD and thalassemia patients since last many years. Dr   said that he was happy that the college had a devoted team of pathologists, paediatrician and physicians comprising the dean Dr Shrikhande (pathologist), Dr Dipty Jain (paediatrician) and Dr P P Joshi (physician) who are already working for SCD and thalassemia patients. “Giving it a formal structure gives the project more integrity,” said Dr Mane who is a college alumnus and is involved in projects related to raising the standard of college in its golden jubilee year. 
 
 The college has started a 10-bedded unit to begin with which will be expanded as per the response from the patients. “The college already has 4-5 beds designated for sickle cell patients in all major specialties in the hospital. The day care centre is meant for patients who need periodical blood transfusion or who have acute pain of joints, a common phenomenon associated with these two diseases,” said Dr Shrikhande. 
 
 Dr Ravi Chauhan, who is associated with the golden jubilee projects, said that the day care centre was an extension of the special services being already provided by the college for many years. The college had been running a neonatal diagnosis and a sickle cell detection centre already considering the existing patient load of these genetic blood disorders in the region. “The day care centre will help the college keep follow up of the patients who otherwise seek blood transfusion in private which is an expensive affair,” he said.
 
