Cox’s Bazar: They are lost, unattended and don’t know what awaits them. Their emotions have been numbed by brutalities back home in Myanmar. They can only feel the pangs of hunger and thirst as they struggle to survive another day. 

 According to Unicef, of the 2,00,000-odd children who have crossed over from the Rakhine state to Bangladesh in recent weeks, at least 1,312 have been separated from parents. Aid agencies estimate the number of lost children to shoot up as more refugees arrive at Cox’s Bazar. Most of these children are vulnerable to trafficking and exploitation, either commercial or sexual.
 
 “I found a child sitting in the jungle when I was running towards the border. The forces from Myanmar had killed his parents and a brother. He managed to somehow escape and got lost in the jungle. I took the boy along and handed him over at the camp office,” recounted Nur Alam, whose entire family was wiped out.
 
 Unicef volunteers that spotted the lost children said they were all overcome with thirst and hunger and barely alive when they were found. Aid workers are worried about the severe health issues facing the children. “They need food, shelter, clean water, medicines and vaccines. We have set up camps,” said Unicef spokesperson Christophe Boulierac.
 
 Unicef has so far set up 41 centres for children where they can play. These sites make it easier for aid workers to spot the children who have been separated from their families or lost.
 
 While many children are suffering from ill-health and undernourishment, the blood and gore that they have seen have left all of them scarred and in need of psychological counselling.
 
 “We came across a boy whose parents were killed in front of his eye. The boy managed to flee and reached the Myanmar border. By the time he reached Bangladesh, his emotions had numbed and tears had dried. He did not feel anything anymore. He said that he needed food, water and shelter. The trauma inside him will take time to be healed,” recounted Boulierac.
 
 Abu Henna, secretary of Red Crescent at Cox’s Bazar, said their volunteers had also come across children whose family members had been brutally slaughtered.
 
 The volunteer of an international aid agency said girls were particularly vulnerable and needed to be protected. “A local who spotted a 13-year-old girl in the camp proposed to her. When she turned down the marriage over, he slapped her. Her cries alerted others. Seeing them, the man fled,” he recounted.
 
 In the unregulated camps, the threat of commercial or sexual exploitation remains. “You cannot rule out the possibility of children getting exploited in an environment like this,” said Chris Lom, senior regional media and communications officer of UN migration agency, International Organisation for Migration. 
 
 
