UDAIPUR: With an aim to bring alive the diverse elements of city’s living heritage, be it traditional temples, monuments, crafts or culture,   in collaboration with   has planned to organise heritage walks in Ahar area.

 The first   will be held on Sunday wherein tourists would get an opportunity to experience the glory of Udaipur along with 4,000 years old historic civilization of Ahar.
 
 “The heritage walk will offer a collection of rich history and culture of ancient Ahar civilization. The tour has seven pausing vintage points namely Ahar mound, Royal Cenotaphs at Mahasatya, Gangu Kund, Meera temple, Jain temples, 52 Jinalayas and the traditional musical instrument makers’ colony,” Udaipur mayor   told TOI.
 
 Records claim that Ahar living heritage was an uninhabited civilization known as   of Tamravats. Archeological Museum in Ahar is a popular attraction which was constructed to preserve the excavated items of ancient period. The museum houses an unusual assortment of antiques that dates back to the 10th century. Soak pits, about 2000 year old, have also been discovered in one of the trenches which depict sense of hygiene among early historic people of this region.
 
 Ahar cenotaph complex is a unique structure built under the royal patronage of Mewar dynasty in memory of their forefathers. Located on eastern side at a distance of 3 km from the walled city, the complex is a known archeological site. It offers remarkable facts about historic settlements through stratums of history with archeological and architectural remains. The complex is also one of the largest among other medieval Rajput cenotaph complexes covering an area of 3.2 hectares with distinctive heritage components. 
 
 The sacred linkage of the complex to holy Kund (Gangod Bhava Kund), Shiv Parvati Temple and closeness to funerary rituals of Mewar dynasty gives the place a sense of association.   and Temple of Shiva carries sacred value and historically were the places of pilgrimage for Mewar region.
 
 “The religious and memorial linkages make Ahar complex a very significant heritage component of medieval Udaipur. The complex comprises of 319 Chattris (amongst which the most prominent are 21 cenotaphs of Rana’s and Maharana’s) which represent gradual evolution in construction style within Mewar region. Distinct in its architectural style, it possesses high associational value making it a significant site of Living Heritage in present day context,” Mayank Gupta, deputy secretary MMCF said.
 
