MUMBAI: A day before the monsoon session of the state legislature, there was a vertical  , not over the failure of the Devendra Fadnavis government to implement the loan waiver scheme or the multi-crore slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) scam involving housing minister Prakash Mehta, but over a resolution to be taken up to recognise the contribution of former Prime Minister, the late   and   president  . Significantly,   and NCP took separate decisions to boycott the CM’s customary tea party to protest against the government’s failure on all fronts.

 A week after the meeting of the business advisory committee to recognise the contribution of Indira, Pawar, Deendayal Upadhyaya, Balasaheb Desai and veteran social worker Nanaji Deshmukh, leader of the Opposition Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil on Saturday had given a letter to the assembly secretariat that the resolution to recognise Indira’s contribution should be taken up first, followed by Pawar, Upadhyaya, Desai and Deshmukh.
 
 NCP felt it was an insult to Pawar’s, following which leader of the Opposition in the legislative council, Dhananjay Munde, wrote to the council secretariat that a resolution to recognise Pawar’s contribution should be taken up first, followed by Indira. After their differences, followed by a letter war, a joint meeting of Congress-NCP leaders to discuss strategy for the monsoon session was abruptly cancelled. A joint media briefing by Vikhe-Patil and Munde was also cancelled. Vikhe-Patil and Munde addressed the media separately.
 
 Vikhe-Patil said besides the government’s failure to implement the loan waiver scheme and the deteriorating law and order situation, Congress will focus on the Rs 1,000 crore SRA scam. “Mehta was misleading people. All along, he claimed the proposal was approved by the CM, and now it has been found the file was never submitted to the CM’s office. Merely staying Mehta’s action is not enough; the CM must conduct a high level probe into the episode and should not give him a clean chit. The SRA scam was first exposed by TOI, following which the CM stepped in and stayed permission given by Mehta.
 
 Vikhe-Patil said more than a month after the CM’s announcement, there was no progress on the waiver; in fact, the CM was misleading 1.36 crore farmers across the state. “We are surprised over the government proposal to call for applications from farmers for the waiver. If that was the case, how did the agriculture department draw the waiver amount of Rs 34,022 crore. It’s a fraud on farmers,’’ Vikhe-Patil said.
 
 Munde too demanded a high-level probe into the SRA scam, saying, if stern action was not taken against Mehta, it will be raised in both Houses. “We are determined to take the government to take to task over the waiver and SRA scam,’’ Munde said.
 
 
