NAGPUR: At least 10 jawans of Gadchiroli district police and the 37 battalion of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)   in two separate incidents in   of   on Wednesday. The security forces had launched an operation following inputs that a number of armed Naxalites had sneaked into Maharashtra from Chhattisgarh.

 Two jawans of Gadchiroli police and one CRPF constable were injured during an exchange of fire with Naxalites in the Koparshi-Pulnar jungle near Koti in Bhamragarh taluka. Later, Naxalites managed to blow up an anti-mine vehicle with a high intensity underground blast near Kier village, some 2km from Hemalkasa Lok Biradari Prakalp on the road connecting Koti. At least seven personnel travelling in the vehicle sustained moderate injuries. The vehicle somersaulted a few times due to the 40-60 kg explosives planted below the road.
 
 A combined squad from Pranhita headquarters in Aheri and Bhamragarh post had launched a joint operation in and around Koti village, a highly sensitive Naxal village. A senior official said there had been concrete information of armed Naxalites hiding in the forests adjoining Koti. “The Naxalites opened fire on seeing the police personnel, which left three of our jawans wounded,” said the official.
 
 The injured constables, Girdhar Tulavi, Vijaysingh Thakur and CRPF jawan T Guniya, were shifted to Raipur by helicopter for treatment after the incident.
 
 Bhamragarh post in-charge   sent an ambulance and two anti-mine vehicles as reinforcement to Koti. On the way back to Bhamragarh, the security forces were once again targeted a few kilometres away from the earlier encounter spot near Koti. PI Sangole said patrolling operation was underway as a precautionary measure when the blast was triggered near Kier village.
 
 A highly placed security official claimed the blast is likely to have been triggered by Naxal sympathizers in Kier village. “It is most likely that the Area Rakshak Dal and Gram Rakshak Dal triggered the blast by completing the circuit of explosives planted earlier,” he said.
 
 On Tuesday, there had been two encounters at different places in the district. In the north, security forces exchanged fire with Naxalites at Talwargarh in Kurkheda taluka. Police managed to seize three bharmar rifles, 30 pellets, three rucksacks and some medicines and literature from the encounter site after the Naxalites retreated. 
 
 In another incident, security forces managed to seize 2kg explosives in a kettle and some literature following an encounter near Haldandi village in Bhamragarh tehsil.
 
