DEHRADUN : Travel to the remote Nelong valley which was inaccessible till about two years back (the Uttarakhand govt decided to open it for tourists in May 2015) will now become more easy with a single-window permit system for entry into the area.

 The beautiful valley located in the Uttarkashi district of   near the Gangotri National Park had been off-limits for several decades after the 1962 India-China war. In 2015, the govt decided to allow limited number of visitors to the area on a permit-based entry system. Getting these permits has now become easier with the   about to start online registration facility for tourists. Uttarkashi DM   told TOI that the process has been made "extremely simple" where visitors, after submitting their documents online can submit the originals at the district HQ where after immediate scrutiny, they will be issued a permit to visit the valley.
 
 "In couple of months , the tourists will be able to apply online for the trip to Nelong valley by sitting at their home. We are working out modalities in this regard. The tourists will fill up online entry form and submit the scanned copies of the required documents such as proof of their home address, identity card etc. With this, they will be given provisional approval for the trip," said Shrivastava.
 
 He further explained that scrutiny of these documents by the concerned departments such as police, army, revenue etc for the valley situated close to   will take four to five days, so within 24 hours of submission of form , the tourists would be given date to reach the headquarter of district administration at Uttarkashi to show the original documents to the panel of three officials from revenue, forest and district administration at one place. Once the documents get approved on the spot then they will be able to visit the valley.
 
 At present, tourists have to take the inner line permit from the sub-divisional magistrate or his subordinate in his absence from Uttarkashi. Usually the tourists are not aware of the modalities and at times, they have one day to visit the valley which get wasted in seeking permission from the officials who are not always available to provide the inner permit. However now with the streamlining the system, the tourists will be sure of their visit to the Nelong valley on the designated day.
 
