HYDERABAD/KOLKATA: The   has put   on standby in case   (HCA) is unable to host the one-off Test against Bangladesh from February 8.

 Like most other state associations, the HCA too is in midst of crisis and is currently in the process of amending its constitution as per the Justice RM Lodha panel's guidelines before holding fresh elections.
 
 HCA secretary K John Manoj, however, stated quite categorically that his association is going ahead with the preparations to host the Test match that would be Bangladesh's first on Indian soil. According to Manoj, the HCA has finalised tenders for the instadia rights and the BCCI curator PR Vishwanath is scheduled to arrive in Hyderabad on Monday to start preparing the pitch for the five-day contest.
 
 "It is unfortunate that such rumours are being floated. There is no truth in it. This is being done only to malign the HCA. We are going ahead with all the preparations for the successful conduct of the Test. It's a matter of pride for us that we are hosting this historic Test," Manoj told TOI on Sunday.
 
 The HCA will, of course be banking on funds from the BCCI to meet a big chunk of the expenses. The BCCI, on its part, will again have to approach the Lodha panel to help release funds for meeting the expenses. With the administration in the BCCI as well as all its state units in a state of partial paralysis following the automatic disqualification of their top office-bearers in wake of the   order, there is considerable uncertainty over the hosting the match.
 
 As of now, Eden Gardens will only come into the picture if Hyderabad stumbles in the run-up to the Test match.
 
 The Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) was keen to play the Test in Kolkata, which is like a second home to their players who enjoy considerable support at the venue. The match was allotted to Hyderabad in keeping with the BCCI's rotation policy.
 
 A final picture will emerge only after the new three-member committee is constituted on January 19 to run BCCI affairs till the Lodha panel recommendations are implemented and elections held, both at the state as well as Board levels.
 
 Bangladesh have never played a Test in India despite hosting India for their first-ever Test in Dhaka in 2000.
 
