NEW DELHI: Unable to find a place to conceal their seven-year-old captive, abductors allegedly pushed him off the ISBT bridge into the Yamuna and later sought a Rs 2.5 lakh ransom from his family. The boy's body was found six days later, on Sunday afternoon, around 1km downstream near  . 

  The boy, Andaaz, was kidnapped from near his house in east Delhi's   on February 20 by three men who offered to treat him to momos. Police said they have arrested two of the accused, Vikas and Laxman. Vikas lived in the neighbourhood and knew Andaaz. The men told the cops they had kidnapped the boy to repay debts. Two days after allegedly killing the boy, the accused made a ransom call to his father,  , who works as a part-time driver. They asked Kumar to come to an isolated spot in Karawal Nagar the same day with Rs 2.5 lakh, adding that he could collect the boy after handing over the money from a florist's shop in the same area. 
 
 The father somehow arranged for the money and waited at the designated spot for three hours. He then returned home with the money.
 
 Kumar said, on the day Andaaz went missing, the family was scheduled to visit a relative's house. When the boy wanted to go out and play, they had asked him to return early. 
 
 "I went out to check when it got late but my son was nowhere to be found. His friends too did not have a clue on his whereabouts," he said. 
 
 After frantically searching for the boy, the family approached police and a case was registered. "A team was constituted and a search launched. Two days later, when the men made the ransom call, they were traced to Karawal Nagar," said  , deputy commissioner of police (north-east). 
 
 During interrogation, the duo told the cops that after kidnapping the boy, they took him to Mori Gate area in an autorickshaw. But hours later, they still hadn't found a place to keep the boy. The abductors then took the boy to the Kashmere Gate bus stop, thinking they would send him home by putting him on a bus to Karawal Nagar.
 
 But they changed their mind and instead took him on the ISBT bridge, asking him to look for fish in the water. They asked him for his father's mobile number. After noting it down, they threw him into the water and fled. 
 
 Andaaz's bloated body was found in the Yamuna Khadar area, near Geeta Colony.
 
 During sustained interrogation, the accused confessed that they committed the crime as they were under debt. "Vikas confessed that he owed more than Rs 50,000. In order to repay the money, he and Laxman had conceived of the plan to abduct the boy," a police officer said.
 
