MUMBAI: Jalna collector   has written to the local crime branch asking it to conduct a probe against 800 farmers who sold tur at the Jalna centre of the National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED).

 Among those under scrutiny will be Shiv Sena leader and minister of state for textile and dairy development Arjun Khotkar and NCP leader and former higher and technical education minister Rajesh Tope and their family members.The probe was ordered following directives of water supply and sanitation minister Babanrao Lonikar, who is Jalna guardian minister.
 
 Jondhale confirmed to TOI that a comprehensive list of 800 farmers, who sold 50 quintals or more to NAFED, has been submitted to district superintendent of police Ramnath Pokale for investigation. “The crime branch will probe whether the tur really belonged to far mers or it was locally purchased and then sold to NAFED for profiteering,“ Jondhale said.
 
 A police official said following Lonikar's directives and the collector's letter, a probe has been initiated at all levels.“Our officials are collecting documents from NAFED's local office and land ownership documents from the revenue department. We will verify if the farmers really produced tur or procured it locally and sold it to NAFED. The local price of tur was Rs 4,000 per quintal, while NAFED is paying Rs 5,050 per quintal. A clear profit of Rs1,000 per quintal,“ he said.
 
 As per official records, Khotkar and his family members sold 377 quintals, while Tope and his kin sold 99 quintals on March 20. Tope sold tur at the Jalna centre, while in his town Ambad too, NAFED has set up a centre to facilitate farmers.Khotkar had told TOI on Monday that the whole thing was a routine business and not a scam. “I and my family own nearly 400 acres of land, and the entire tur was produced on our farm, so there will nothing illegal there. We sold the tur to NAFED's Jalna centre.“
 
 Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant demanded a highlevel probe into the scam, saying instead of leaving the probe to Jalna crime branch, CM   should set up a high-level task force. “Since Khotkar is a Sena leader and a cabinet member, police may succumb to political pressure and grant a clean chit to him.Fadnavis should order an independent probe for an impartial inquiry ,“ he said.
 
