Fire hazards at one of the major party hangouts in Delhi, Hauz Khas Village, has been a major concern for the authorities. A fire caused by a short circuit on Sunday night triggered an alarm yet again for the authorities, restaurateurs and visitors at HKV. The fire broke out in the basement of Cafe High5. There were no casualties or damage to the property as everything was controlled within minutes. “Four fire tenders reached   around 10.22pm and we found that a spark caused by short circuit in a signboard on the ground floor of one of the buildings caused the fire, which then reached the electric poles. The fire was under control in a few minutes. One of the biggest challenges in Hauz Khas Village is to make way for fire tenders and reach on time. On Sunday, the situation was under in control, but due to its narrow, congested lanes, HKV is always a bigger risk,” said an official from the  .

  
  
 Prashant Karan, owner of Cafe High5, said, “It wasn’t anything major but a minor fire caused by a short circuit. We have a spa in the basement of the building and our restaurant is on the first floor. There was a short circuit in one of the boards at the entrance, from there it reached the air conditioner which was next to the board and then the electric poles. The smoke caught people’s attention and the fire department was informed immediately. As soon as we found out we made the guests leave through the back door. Everything was in control within few minutes and no damage was done.” One of the staff members from another restaurant in the neighbourhood told us, “This happened around 10.20pm and though it was a weekend, HKV wasn’t really packed with people. As soon as the smoke was seen bouncers and other staff from different restaurants cleared the area to let the fire tenders in. The policemen asked everyone to vacate the area.” A staff member from one of the restaurants in HKV said, “When people were asked to move out, some guests wanted to finish their drink before leaving, since nothing was visible. They thought it was a mock drill was going on.”
 Singer-composer   was to perform at Cafe High5, and there were around 80-90 guests in the restaurant when the news of the fire broke. “Ankit was on his way to the restaurant and had already reached South Ex. He was asked not to come. His performance will be scheduled when he is in Delhi next,” a source informed.
 
 This is the second incident of fire reported in the area in last few months. Last August, a man died and a French woman was injured when a fire broke out in a building in HKV. 
 
