Monsoon showers playing hide and seek with sunny skies, welcoming faces, knowledgeable cab drivers and self-styled tour guides… it’s the tourism season in Kerala! 

 There are many reasons to rejoice this time in God’s Own Country. The much-loathed-by-the-sector alcohol ban is off and the State has a Malayali at the Centre,  , serving as the tourism minister of the country!   has also just bagged The Pacific Asia Travel Association Grand and Gold Award (PATA) 2017 for its marketing initiatives. Yes, many things are coming around for us. But, what’s that we need to focus on, and what are the areas of concern? Kochi Times explores:
 
 
 
 Now that the alcohol ban has been sorted out, Kerala must concentrate on recapturing the lost business, which has migrated to more friendly destinations in the neighbourhood, says Kerala Tourism Principal Secretary Dr V Venu. “We have lost a large part of our business, in leisure, business and MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Events) segments. With intense efforts, we will be able to get back to where we were in a couple of years. That’s when we can think of substantial growth,” he explains. He is also of the opinion that it’s time we presented new experiences that enhance our identity. “Activity and adventure experiences will give us a chance to showcase our natural assets in a dramatically different way, and will appeal to a younger audience,” he says.
 
 While many might think that we need to think beyond our hills and backwaters, Central Tourism Minister Alphonse Kannanthanam is of the opinion that their potential has not been tapped enough. He says, “Take a place like Munnar, for example. There aren’t enough places yet for tourists to stay there. We won’t benefit unless they stay there, shop around and explore the place further. Similarly, in  , we need to make a master plan to make forests, lakes and the like, even artificially, to offer a lot more of variety to the tourists rather than just the existing natural beauty. If executed well, we can bring in a lot more of responsible, sustainable tourism in these areas. Similarly, water bodies and premises need to be kept clean, involving the citizens as well.”
 
 If destinations like the US are melting pots of cultural diversity, we are a thali (platter offering varied attractions), and we should also take measures to preserve and celebrate them, says leading hotelier Jose Dominic. “Instead of giving out an image of an intolerant atmosphere, we should do what it takes to protect our multi-culturalism. For example, our culinary assets offer a wide range of variety, from the north to the south of the State. It’s not finding fault with them in the name of differences, but banking on the taste and skills to prepare them that will get us industry attention,” says Jose Dominic. He also says, giving approved, classified restaurants the permission to serve beer will benefit us. “Take the case of the shacks of Goa. People can sit there, be on the beach and have a beer. Here, you need to go inside a hotel for that. Tourists want to be on the beach and that’s where it should be available,” he explains.
 
 
 
 The recent announcement that 28% GST will be charged on hotels that have a tariff of over `7,500 per room would be a huge competitive disadvantage compared with neighbouring South East Asian Countries, says Jose Dominic. “We are hoping that a separate category will be created for foreign tourists at a lower rate, or that the final rate will not be higher than 18%.”
 
 He also says that though we advocate responsible tourism, we lack strong guidelines. “Responsible tourism (RT) means preserving environment, local products and ethos. But, to incentivise that development, we need strong ecological guidelines laid down, location-wise. For example, it should be different for Munnar and Fort Kochi, and both heritage and natural assets should be taken into account. So, we need laws that are specific to each location which we don’t have now.”
 
 If we travel from Kochi to Thiruvananthapuram, where do we have a decent washroom facility for the tourists, except probably for KTDC’s Aaramam? asks Minister Alphonse Kannanthanam, echoing an issue that has been a major topic of concern in the State, both within and outside tourism sector. “It’s a lot of simple things like these that we need to fix first and are working towards, rather than going out all revolutionary,” he says.
 According to Dr Venu, the biggest issue is the deteriorating quality of our destinations — with solid waste being the most glaring negative. “Our water bodies are getting polluted, which again affects the image of the destination. On the marketing front, our concern is the need to present a fresh, new face for Kerala Tourism,” he says.
 
 Alphonse Kannanthanam also quotes the condition of our roads. “In the name of fixing them, they are often just given a cosmetic polishing, which will crumble in the next rain. That’s the case even with National Highways! How will tourists travel to our beautiful locations, under these conditions? Also, we need to have toilets at least every four or five kilometres. Amenity centres and decent coffee houses that everyone can afford are facilities we don’t have enough, now. We will soon be working in tandem with the State to fix it all,” he says.
 
 
 
 While the talks on striking a balance between responsible tourism and a liberal attitude towards tourists having fun is on, how easy is it? Dr Venu says, “These are not mutually exclusive. RT is concerned with economic, cultural and environmental responsibility that applies to all stakeholders. As a multidimensional destination, it is important for Kerala to give the message that we welcome visitors, and will not put unnecessary restrictions.” As Jose Dominic puts it, “Kerala should be a great place both to live in and visit! That’s when it will all make true sense.”
 
