Visakhapatnam: The port city will soon have a modern seafood processing and   on the lines of those in Japan and China to meet the demand in Europe, south America and central America. The state government recently sent senior officials to the two countries to study their facilities. 

 Major types of seafood products that are exported include frozen products, dried products, smoked products, canned food, fish meal, products made of fish oil and fish liver, medicines, and algae glue, among others.
 
 “AP State Warehousing   visited Japan and China to study their seafood processing and cold storage facilities upon government instructions. He has been asked to submit a report regarding his visit to the agriculture and cooperation (marketing) department,” a senior official told TOI.
 
 The government also sent a team of officials to Vizag last month to identify suitable land for setting up the facility, said a senior official from the city unit of AP Infrastructure Investment Corporation (APIIC).
 
 “A team visited the city to identify nearly 2-3 acres of land for setting up the processing centres. However, there has been no further official communication till date about the project,” said an APIIC source.
 
 Dr VV Rao, joint director of  , said the modern seafood processing and cold storage facility will help in preserving seafood as per   (ECI) norms.
 
 “Seafood will be preserved in minus 20 degree Celsius. There are nearly 12 export-oriented seafood plants in Visakhapatnam alone and nearly 2.25 lakh metric tonne of seafood was exported from AP last year. We have a good potential,” Dr Rao added.
 
 Arjilli Dasu, executive director of  , said countries like Europe and the US prefer Indian seafood and appreciate the hygienic conditions in which we export them. 
 
 “I once visited Italy as part of a meeting on fishing policies and was surprised to see that seafood is decorated and kept in showcases like garments. If we the have the requisite number of processing plants, the export value of seafood will increase and many youth will get employment in the fishing industry,” Dasu said.
 
 Dasu further said nearly four decades ago, processing of seafood was initially done with knives and salt. The quality of products were not good and often got spoiled before reaching the consumers. But now, the process has completely changed. Glass and tin containers are now used for packing the seafood, Dasu said.
 
