MUMBAI: The bitter allegations levelled by Egyptian national  's sister about   and the level of medical care have disheartened a group of women who have spent the last 88 days in caring for the erstwhile heaviest woman in the world.

 Each of them --from the nursing, physiotherapy and housekeeping teams--has an   anecdote to narrate.“My nurses compiled an English booklet to teach numbers to Eman. She was learning too,“ said nursing in-charge Belinda Sawant. Nutritionist Carlyne Remedios remembers how Eman eyed her halfeaten chicken sandwich as medical teams were conducting a check. “We were assessing her and her eyes never left that sandwich,“ said Remedios of the day Eman was brought to the hospital. “Many of our physiotherapists have had sore backs and arms as they strained trying to strengthen Eman's muscles, but we are proud she now sits up on her own with little support,“ said head of physiotherapist Dr Swati Sanghvi.
 
 When Eman's sister Shaimaa Semil said her sister is worse off than before, 12 out of 13 doctors taking care of Eman “symbolically“ resigned. “But all of us still check on Eman,“ said bariatric surgeon Dr Aparna Govil Bhasker. But it is the nursing staff who interact with Eman 24x7. “Eman would in her own way respond to our `good morning', but she doesn't any more,'' said sister Sherly Koshy, who has been on Eman duty since the first day . Koshy said she hasn't visited her cancerstricken mother in Allepey, Kerala, in 3 months. “I have stitched Eman's clothes, pieced together diapers for her, and now she won't even smile at us, forget blowing her trademark kisses,“ said Koshy .
 
 They believe Selim has asked her sister to not respond to friendly gestures anymore.“We stayed here for days on end when Eman got her first epileptic fits. We have danced to cheer her up. And hence feel let down by the turn of events,“ said Sawant. While six to eight women were needed to turn Eman over until a month back, even two can manage as Eman is now down to 176 kg.
 
 The nurses said they have taken “equally good care“ of Saimaa. “She would get upset if she didn't get her bottle of mineral water or would ask us to get her food from well-known eateries,“ said Koshy .
 
 The nursing team spent four hours bathing Eman on the first day. “She had many bedsores and cuts as well as fungal infections. Skin and oral care were zilch in the last 25 years“, said the nurses. “But we didn't mind all that because we love our Emo.“ On Saturday , Eman's sister Selim said Eman cried all day as she is feeling pain in her body . “Nurses have only been enquiring about Eman over the phone, but this is no problem as we will be gone soon,“ said Shaimaa. Asked if Eman had stopped responding to nurses, Shaimaa said, “How can she? She cannot speak“.
 
