LUCKNOW: The kitchen staple tomato is becoming a luxury with its price in the city touching Rs 100 per kg, from around Rs 40 per kg one-and-a-half-month ago. Other   are also drilling a hole in the pocket, with prices rising over the past 15 days. Prices are likely to increase further in coming days, said vegetable traders, adding that monsoon arrived late this year which led to poor crop of seasonal vegetables, while heavy rains later damaged the produce. Tomato was worst hit by rainfall in Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. 

 Seasonal vegetables hit by unfavourable   include brinjal, ladyfinger, bitter gourd, colocasia and potatoes. Cost of bottle guard, pumpkin, pointed guard and cauliflower has dropped up to 40%. 
 
 Wholesale dealer Shahikant Singh said, “Rains damaged the tomato crop in Karnataka and also affected its transport.” Another wholesale dealer Kripal said, “The supply has yet to normalise, hence cost of tomato and other vegetables will increase further.”
 
 Vegetables that have become cheaper are those which are grown locally or within the state. There was a glut since the produce could not be sent to other states because of heavy rains, so their prices went down. Also, these vegetables don’t have a long shelf life, so vendors are selling them for less. 
 
 Housewife   said, “The hike in prices of tomato and potato is pinching most as there is hardly any dish one can make without these two. I have started using readymade tomato puree, 1kg of which costs between Rs 70-90, whereas raw tomato is at over Rs 100 per kg.” Another housewife Anuradha Bhatt, buying vegetables from Narhi market said she had started making dishes with ladyfinger and pumpkin which don’t require tomato. 
 
 Private sector employee Alisha Asif, buying vegetables at Nishatganj market said tomato prices were already high but now other vegetables had become unaffordable too. A Mahanagar provision store owner Radhey Lala said demand for tomato puree and ketchup has gone up.
 
 (With inputs from   and Himanshi Shukla)
 
