The aura surrounding Germany on a football pitch accrues from a packed trophy cabinet housing four senior World Cups, three Euro and a World U-20 crown.

 The Fifa U-17  , however, is a glaring omission. But that void hardly bothers the German think-tank headed by coach Christian Wuck whose team was the first to land in Goa.
 
 “We believe in the concept of building players for the A (senior) team,” Wuck, a former   player, said while reflecting on Germany's failure to lift the trophy in 32 years of its existence.
 
 “It's not so much for the title. Development is more important for us,” the 44-year-old affirmed.
 
 “Maybe the players are too young and the physical and mental conditioning is not as good as African and Asian teams at this level,” Wuck reasoned. The coach admitted there was then less pressure of expectation but made his intentions clear: “We still want to win it.”
 
 Of 16 editions, Germany have made 10 appearances (including one by the erstwhile German Demo cratic Republic in 1989) that have yield d just three semifinal appearances be sides the lone final in the inaugural edition. By their lofty standards at senior level, the U-17 string has certainly come up short.
 
 For all that, Germany came close to extending their domination at China 1985 where they went all the way to the final before losing to Nigeria 0-2.
 
 Their relatively pale record notwithstanding, dismiss the young Germans at your own peril. Germany have been eliminated by eventual champions in three of their last four appearances and their current form and cohesion suggests their long wait for the U-17 title could end soon.
 
 A remorseless run in their qualifying campaign brooked seven wins from as many matches that only ended when eventual champions Spain beat Germany 4-2 in a penalty shootout in the semifinals of the U-17 European championship in Croatia earlier this year.
 
 A goal record of 36-6 in that tournament revealed the team's depth in both attack and defence.
 
 Jann-Fiete Arp, the first millennial to play in the Bundesliga when he turned out for Hamburg SV on Saturday against Werder Breman, scored seven goals in as many matches in Croatia replete with two hat-tricks, one in 13 minutes against Bosnia Herzegovina and the other against Ireland.
 
 First-choice goalkeeper Christian Fruchtl, however, will not make the trip in order to step in for injured 2014 World Cup hero Manuel Neuer at FC Bayern Munich ­ an amicable arrangement between club and country ­ but the German camp is buzzing with the recovery and return of several injured players who have exhibited good form.
 
 Germany are in Group C with Iran, Costa Rica and Guinea. Wuck assesses it as a tough group and believes his boys would need to be at the top of their game to progress to the knock-out stage.
 
 At Chile 2015, Wuck's team went down to Croatia in the round of 16. When action gets under way against Costa Rica in Fatorda on Saturday, the Germans could well have a top-of-the-group finish firmly in their sights before making the big push towards securing the elusive silverware.
 
 
