AGRA: It’s been more than two years since the Union cultural ministry announced that the Taj Mahal could be seen at night from Mehtab Bagh across the  , but the initiative is nowhere near commencement. Instead, there’s a blame game that is unfolding between the Archaeological Survey of India ( ) and Agra Development Authority (ADA).
 
  ASI, which built a platform outside the Mughal garden for the new attraction, says it has done its part and now it is on the ADA to start the service. The civic body on the other hand is not amused at ASI’s attitude and said the archaeological department is not helping them in the implementation of the facility.
  
  On the other hand, ASI superintending archaeologist   said, “We have nothing to do with this new facility as it is outside the premises of our protected monument. We have built a platform just outside the Mehtab Bagh from where tourists will be able to see the monument at night. The ADA is now looking into the details of the project.”
  
  ADA secretary,   said, “The archaeological body puts more obstacles in our way than helping us. As of now we are finalizing the modalities of the project such as how many tourists would be allowed at one time, how many days will we run this facility, besides the safety and security requirement. We will get everything approved in writing from ASI, so that they do not raise an objection in the future.”
  
  In December 1999, the   had banned visitors’ entry into the monument after 7pm for a view of the Taj by moonlight to ensure the monument’s security. However, after repeated demands from the tourism industry, the apex court in November 2004 made some amends in its earlier order and ASI started taking in 400 tourists in groups of 50 to view the Taj Mahal at night, but for only five nights in a month, and that too, from a distance of over 200 metres. A permission to allow night viewing of the Taj Mahal from Mehtab Bagh, Shah Jahan’s favourite spot for watching the Taj on full moon nights, has long been demanded by several tourism associations and citizen groups.
