Right now, it is highly recommended for every citizen of Goa to walk up to the hapless, grounded hulk of the ill-fated Lucky Seven casino boat, now digging ever-deeper into the broad sands of Miramar. Looming high above the waterline, it offers a rare opportunity to examine one of these supposedly glamorous vessels up close. From touching distance, it is a mouldering, unseaworthy pile of junk. The fact this rust bucket got quick certification from the state is a crowning disgrace, illustrating the total bankruptcy of administrative procedure and oversight. Lying there groaning on the shore, it is a painfully dire metaphor for the collapse of Goa’s own ship of state, wilfully crashed onto the rocks by its heedless, incompetent crew. “Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me.” That universal adage has considerable relevance to Goa’s rapidly deteriorating political scenario, where promises are made with the intention of breaking them, and the entire elected cadre believes (with good reason) it can get away with even the most egregious breach of trust. Thus, cynical alliances are forged overnight between previously bitter opponents, directly contravening most solemn election assurances. With a wink, notorious offenders against public decency are rehabilitated into governance. Beyond farce, there has been an unending string of callous betrayals regarding the universally loathed casino “industry”. It’s quite an achievement to destroy a reputation so many people believed in. But that is precisely what happened in Goa after BJP earned its historic mandate in 2012. A broad majority of voters placed their hopes in the hands of the undoubtedly brilliantly talented Manohar Parrikar. But things did not work out as expected, after a breathtaking series of U-turns and broken promises. Many of Goa’s usual suspects across the political spectrum remain in power due to the combination of bare-knuckled tactics and a statewide drought of credible opposition candidates. But there has been a corresponding, considerable loss of credibility that now adds up to a massive trust deficit. Thus, this week’s new round of declarations about casinos felt like another hard slap in the face to the unamused electorate, again made a laughingstock by its own representatives. The chief minister told Goa’s legislature on July 24 that the Prevention of Gambling Act would be amended in the next assembly session. Now the deeply unpopular, allegedly “offshore” casinos will be allowed another three years to shift from despoiling the Mandovi to yet-unidentified locations on land, “in a special entertainment zone where Goans would be banned from entering”. But, earlier this month, the government gave the casinos a time-bound ultimatum till September to move, thus extending a previous deadline for June 30, which followed an absurdly lengthy laundry list of previous promises which date all the way back to the “final commitment” to expel them when licenses expired over a year ago. So much hot air, but the casinos go nowhere. The pithy Konkani saying — ‘kavlle mhatare zavpachi vatt polloita’ — is highly relevant here, emblematic of indefinite delays. By now, the entire nation is fully aware that Goa’s political class has become helplessly captive to casino operators, and hopelessly addicted to their gushing pipelines of cash. It is amply clear that no polity in India is more inextricably associated with this deeply dodgy “industry” than Goa, even if the current chief minister (when in opposition) repeatedly called it “a social evil” and “dens of vice” that he would immediately uproot if brought back to office. In good part, because most citizens believed him, a crushing majority resulted. But then the back-tracking began, and all that good faith was trampled into mud. Earlier this week, the chief minister admitted the existing Gambling Act allowed a cap to the number of casinos in the Mandovi. “We will use these powers capping the number of offshore casinos to only five, which are existing. The sixth offshore casino can go somewhere else and can operate only if people of the area don’t have a problem.” But the announcement only came after Lucky Seven had already ill-advisedly tried to force its way up the Mandovi, only to flounder and become marooned right at the mouth of the river. Too little, too late, with zero credibility. That is the sad summary of Goa’s political scene in 2017. (The writer is a photographer and a widely published columnist. Views expressed are personal)