NEW DELHI: Get ready for more vigorous security checks of 
  to, from and within America and these new norms could remind of airports back home.

 Like Indian airports where tablets and laptops have to be taken out of hand bags and kept separately in trays for X-ray screening, US airports will also start doing the same. 
 
 Till now, only large PEDs like laptops were required to be taken out there for being x-rayed separately while smaller ones like iPads could stay in hand bags during security checks in the US.
 
 Now  ,   ( ), last week decided to implement “new, stronger screening procedures for carry-on items that require travellers to place all electronics larger than a cell phone in bins for X-ray screening in standard lanes” due to increased threat to aviation security.
 
 “As new procedures are phased in, TSA officers will begin to ask travellers to remove electronics larger than a cell phone from their carryon bags and place them in a bin with nothing on top or below, similar to how laptops have been screened for years. This simple step helps TSA officers obtain a clearer X-ray image,” the TSA website says. The US had recently lifted the laptop ban on nonstop flights to the country from some airports abroad like Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Doha.
 
 “In standard screening lanes, TSA officers will be stationed in front of the checkpoint X-ray machines to guide passengers through the screening process and recommend how best to arrange their carry-on items for X-ray screening. 
 
  
  
 
 Travellers are encouraged to organise their carry-on bags and keep them uncluttered to ease the screening process and keep the lines moving,” the website adds. There are no changes to what travellers can bring through the checkpoint. TSA says passengers may experience more bag checks.
 
 “However, through extensive testing, TSA identified ways to improve screening procedures with quicker and more targeted measures to clear the bags.” After extensive testing and successful pilots at 10 airports including   (LAX), TSA plans to expand these measures to all US airports during the weeks and months ahead.
 
 “It is critical for TSA to constantly enhance and adjust security screening procedures to stay ahead of evolving threats and keep passengers safe. By separating personal electronic items such as laptops, tablets, e-readers and handheld game consoles for screening, TSA officers can more closely focus on resolving alarms and stopping terror threats,” the TSA website quotes its acting administrator Huban A Gowadia as saying.
 
