CHANDIGARH: The constant downpour has paralysed the city and dampened the spirit of the members of the several Ramleela committees. The heavy rain has damaged the stages, furniture, curtains and the audience area is completely submerged in water. The numerous Ramleela committees of the city have incurred loss worth couple of lakhs.

 Meanwhile, the Ramleela committees have already paid in advance to the caterers, band members and now they are demanding damage claims.
 
 Speaking to TOI, B P Goud, general secretary, Chandigarh Kendriya Ramleela   said, “The rain has given us sleepless nights this time and we have incurred a loss of nearly Rs 1.5 to Rs 2 lakhs. Our stage in Sector 22 has completely collapsed from one side. The poles, which were holding the structure together, have also broken. We had paid money to buy the groceries for a ‘langar’ to be held on Sunday at the event of  , but if it continues to rain, how will any of this happen? We had also booked a horse and a band, but everything is a waste now.”
 
 Meanwhile, several stages decorated for Ramleela in Sector 46, Daddu   and Manimajra have also broken.
 
 To recover losses, the central Ramleela body is demanding a grant from the administration every year to manage the celebration in a better way. The Ramleela committees are now looking for water pumps and cheap labour to refurbish the area for the audience once again.
 
 Goud also expressed discontent over the tedious process of obtaining permission for staging Ramleela in various grounds and also not getting any monetary support from the UT Administration. “These people do not help us in any way for this huge annual religious celebration. All the Ramleela committees, which are purely dependent on donations, have suffered huge losses this year. Hence, we are demanding a grant. If the UT Administration can spend lakhs of rupees on cultural and theater festivals, why can’t they help us in our Ramleela celebrations with just Rs 1 lakh each to manage things in a better way? Our Mahasabha had met Kirron Kher in this regard as well, but even she did not help us. Hence, we will meet the governor and discuss this issue on Monday.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sahil, a Ramleela actor of Sector 28 said, “This year, the Ramleela has really cost us a lot of money. All our seats for the chief guests are completely wet. The ground area where the audience was supposed to sit has become a pool hence we will have to recarpet everything. We can no longer use the electricity equipment because short circuit can take place. And we will have to cut some of the scenes if Ramleela resumes tomorrow because there has been a gap of two days and it will destroy the natural progression of storytelling. But, we will have to manage.”
 
