MUMBAI: Sunil  , a police head constable, has filed a writ petition in the Bombay high court alleging rampant corruption in the city police's traffic division and sought directions for registration of offences against the corrupt officials.

 Toke's plea, filed on Friday, has been posted for hearing on January 23. Toke, now posted with the local arms division, has annexed 40 video clips to prove his allegations (see box).
 
 “We are seeking legal opinion on how to reply to Toke's PIL filed before the HC,“ joint commissioner of police (traffic)   told TOI.
 
 Toke, who worked with the traffic police for several years, had complained to police bosses and chief minister  , who heads the home department, in 2015. At that time, Bharambe had shifted 35 cops.
 
 But Toke clearly was not impressed. His advocate   said: “Toke had filed complaints to all senior officers, including then Mumbai police commissioner Rakesh  , who had directed Milind Bharambe to look into it.But nothing happened, and so on his instructions we have filed a writ petition.“
 
 In his petition, Toke said he was shocked to see rampant corruption in the traffic department. He claimed traffic policemen were collecting haftas from shopping malls, advertisement agencies, private contractors doing underground cable jobs, motor vehicle showroom owners, tanker and builder mafia, fiveto three-star hotels, pizza outlets, transporters running ready mix cement vehicles, sand & bricks vehicles and auto and taxi drivers. Toke alleged that the traffic department gets Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 from star hotels to allow illegal parking.
 
 He claimed bribery was the bane of the drunk driving crackdown. He recounted that 40-50 persons would be caught at each drive, but most -particularly the well-off -would be let off after paying bribes ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000. Those who did not pay up or could not would be charged.
 
 To establish almost institutionalized corruption, he said cops use fake pink receipts to fine offenders and pocket the money. Toke claims that when he asked how one could become a cop who rides a bike, he was asked to cough up Rs 8,500. The explanation: on becoming a rider, he would be able to collect more bribes.
 
 “There are several vehicles which do not have the requisite documents and permits... they (the cops) charge anywhere from Rs 10,000 to 50,000 depending on the individual owner's capacity. There are other rackets at octroi nakas and the towing of illegally parked vehicles,“ said S S Kharat, another advocate helping Toke. The petitioner claimed that often vehicles are released after taking bribes and constables get Rs 20 each and the rest of the money goes into the senior inspector's pocket.
 
 After taking into account the material evidence he has procured, the court should issue directions for registering of FIRs under the prevention of corruption Act, Criminal Procedure Code, Motor Vehicles Act, and other relevant Acts.He asked the HC to form a Special Investigation Team to probe the rampant corruption that is cost the state exchequer crores.
 
 (Inputs by V Narayan)
 
