AJMER: Thousands of transgenders coming to attend the yearly   of   from different parts of the country are facing trouble in finding rooms in guest houses or hotels. The district administration has issued notices to guest houses and hotels in the dargah bazaar area in a bid to control crowd which often blocks roads during Urs.

 Besides, district administration has also restricted VIP movement and offering of chadder on behalf of VIPs on certain days in order to manage traffic better. Directions have been given to perfume shop owners for not selling perfume in glass bottles. Shopkeepers have also been instructed to show identity cards to employees working in shops or hotels.
 
 Transgenders are the main attraction of Urs as the community has immense faith in the Sufi cult of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti. “This tradition is very old and transgenders are real devotees of this Sufi culture,” said a khadim. Groups of transgenders from different places gather here to offer prayers and ‘chadder’. “They are true devotees and hence they reach before the Urs starts,” said another Khadim.
 
 But there are also incidents when some transgenders try to lure the crowd with their beauty and makeup. “There are incidents when transgenders stood near the window of their guest houses to lure the crowd and it becomes impossible to manage traffic,” said an official source.
 
 “We received such notice from administration asking not to allocate rooms with windows facing the roads to transgenders,” said  , manager of   in dargah bazaar, adding, the notice also asked them not to give rooms without verifying identity proof of the guests.
 
 Sources said police officials who will be on duty during Urs are also directed to control any nuisance by some groups of transgender. Transgender in makeup are commonly seen at railway station, bus stand and in main market during night luring the bypass during Urs.
 
 One of the important decisions taken by district administration is to catch monkeys in and dargah bazaar. “Muncipal corporation has asked a special team to catch monkeys for safety of devotees and tourists,” said source. Similarly, VIP movement will also be restricted on main days as such movement will block traffic. Directions like shopkeepers will not throw garbage on road and should not depute any employees under 18 years have been given. The administration also checked functioning of X-ray machine, metal detectors and   cameras in and around the dargah.
 
