' ', based on the famous Archie’s comics, is the much anticipated teen-drama. Unlike the comic books, this series deals a lot with murder, sex and growing up teen behavior. The series takes a deeper look into the dark and mysterious lives of Archie, Betty, Veronica and Jughead. And with the first season doing well, viewers have expectations from Season 2. So here's what fans would want to see happen on the show...

 
 The self-acclaimed queen bee, Cheryl is hot, manipulative is often described as ‘the storm’. In Season 1, she is seen scheming quite a lot, but they don’t show her dating. This timer, we’re sure fans want to see her hook-up with a man who is the right match for her.
 
 
 With all the drama around Jason’s murder, the Archie, Betty and Veronica’s love triangle is seen heating up things all around! It definitely will be interesting to see which pair end up together and whose heart is smashed in the process. Or will we see a ménage à trois?
 
 
 A much anticipated character in the show is definitely that of Sabrina, the teenage witch. Will she step in and make the sinful Riverdale, darker with her supernatural powers? Or will she bring on her supernatural charms to the screen? Say anything; it will be fun to have her put a dark spin to the already chaotic goings-on in the lives of the characters.
 
 
 Jughead makes Betty seem more beautiful than she actually is! And the fact that   almost runs away from him, makes their pairing all the more alluring. While Betty is completely after Archie, we feel that Jughead is better suited for her. So yes, more of the two definitely!
 
 
 Cheryl keeps flirting with Archie, but he keeps pushing her away. We want to see more of action between the two. How will it be if Cheryl and Archie get together? Will they be better than Veronica or will she leave him wanting for more? With his charm and her mind, they can fire up the world! 'Riverdale' is getting exciting with each season! We cannot wait to see what Season 2 holds in store for us. Will it get exciting or will it get boring? Watch out the all new season of 'Riverdale' on Colors Infinity.
 
 
