After the scrapping of the expensive  , here's yet another reason for hope: the   (BBMP) has decided to   the   until it gets clearance from   concerned.

 The main reason for the project getting shelved for now is reportedly that the civic body wants to avoid another protest. That aside, it is also finding it hard to get clearance from the assistant conservator of forests to cut the 112 trees that fall in the line of the project.The estimate scrutiny committee, headed by its chairman VR Srinivas Murthy, has asked engineers not to execute the project until it gets clearance for it.
 
 A source told Mirror that when the road-widening project was mooted, it was estimated to cost no more than Rs 5 crore, which was earmarked in the budgetary allocation. However, in the present situation, it would cost Rs 12 crore, and there is no allocation for the extra cost. Also, according to BS Pralhad, chief engineer, major roads infrastructure department, no tenders have been invited for the project either, nor have the required clearances been sought. So until, these criteria are met, the project cannot be started.
 
 Pralhad also explained how more clarity is needed on the project execution.The High Court had directed the civic body to issue Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) certificate to the royal family whose property was to be acquired for the said project.
 
 The TDR Policy was kept aside for the last several years, which had become a major hurdle in the execution of this particular project. The estimate scrutiny committee had also said not to take up the roadwidening work until the government found a solution to the TDR policy dilemma. “Now that the TDR rules have changed and the Bangalore Development Authority has been empowered to issue TDR certificates, we are one step closer to the execution of the project.But various other clearances will still take a lot of time,“ said Pralhad.
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, BBMP officials, along with experts from Institute of Wood Science and Technology, Bengaluru, will inspect on Wednesday trees on this stretch that can be relocated. The inspection was scheduled on Monday but was cancelled after the director was unavailable.
 
 “So far we have identified 42 trees that can easily be relocated inside the premises of Bangalore Palace. The remaining trees have to be cut but we will consider the recommendation made by experts from the institute before doing so. We have also asked assistance from Volvo to provide their vehicles for the relocation. The BBMP is ready to spend around Rs 1 lakh for the relocation of each tree,“ he said.
 
 
 
 Before taking up elaborate projects, the agencies need to address existing problems, said a resident of Jayamahal area, and a member of the group, Citizen's Initiatives for Jayamahal Area.
 
 “We have potholes on one side and a manhole with protruding cover on the another.That one single lane is also congested because of the zigzag drive that people are forced to take. The agencies must also provide designated spots for business establishments and hawkers so that the pavements are not occupied and people are not forced to walk on the roads. Also, when there are these shops on pavements, people tend to park on the road to buy from them.This also adds to the traffic... For instance, a garage in this area means cars and vehicles parked on the roads. These shops must be given permissions where they will have the space they require. So many vehicles from the garage take away space on the road. Many times they even double park. The mismanagement and lack of planning are the reason why there are traffic issues,“ said the member, who did not want to be named.
 
 Another resident of 1st Main, Jayamahal Road, said: “The BBMP wants to ease traffic by widening the road but how will that help the badly constructed underpass that leads to the Cantonment railway station? The bottlenecks are still going to be there where the traffic comes to a standstill. What we really need is improved public transport with better connectivity.“
 
 
 
 
 Drop all flyovers
 
 The state government should abandon all road-widening projects, elevated corridors and flyovers, as in the past, this kind of development has served no purpose and instead added to the growing number of vehicles. The push should be towards a holistic development plan with a thrust on the public transport system like commuter railways and also revamping Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation in terms of demand being raised by the Bus Bhagya Beku campaign. Also, the government should have a robust policy to facilitate public consultation under the Karnataka Tree Cutting Consultation Act to boost public participation and know the demands being put forward by the public.
 
 -Vinay Srinivas, Hasiru Usiru
 
 Absence of expert is fatal
 
 The government can't take up projects for the sake of it, as citizens are now disillusioned with this kind of working. The authorities who are divulging ideas don't have a comprehensive mobility plan and when protest happens, there is no one who can apprise the public about the viability of the work they are taking up. In the absence of an expert who can explain the idea and present it before the pub lic, the government's push for a project when they are in power crumbles. Recently, they stepped back on the steel flyover project and now Jaymahal Road widening is also deferred. If the authorities fail to draw a proper action plan, even the elevated corridor will come under attack from the citizens, as we live in a democracy and it will take its own course.
 
 -Ashwin Mahesh, Social Technologist
 
 Road widening is no solution
 
 Widening the roads cannot be a solution. One solution which can be adopted is the implementation of a uniform carriageway, i.e.adjusting the flow of vehicles according to the width of the road.Secondly, the best idea would be to shift private cars out and enable more public transport including buses.
 
 -Tara Krishnaswamy, Resident
 
 Find the traffic source
 
 The authorities should find out the source of the traffic by conducting scientific studies.Sometimes, the solution lies far away from the source of problem.To ease traffic in Jaymahal Road, other alternative ways should be searched from where the excess traffic can pass.
 
 -Srinivas Alavalli, Resident
 
