JAIPUR: Owner of a diagnostic centre was arrested for allegedly selling his illegal portable sonography machine late on Friday evening. The accused is a senior higher secondary pass who runs a diagnostic centre in  . 

 He was arrested earlier too for the violation of Pre-Conception Pre-Natal Diagnostic Technique (PCPNDT) Act. 
 
 State’s appropriate authority (PCPNDT)   said, they had received information on Friday that owner of PD X-ray and   is trying to sell his illegal portable machine. The PCPNDT cell team headed by PCPNDT cell in-charge   conducted a decoy operation and arrested the accused. They have also seized the illegal portable machine. 
 
 PCPNDT cell incharge Raghuveer Singh said, “We found the machine at a house which is situated 1 km away from his diagnostic centre. In the decoy operation, we acted as a client interested in purchasing the illegal sonography machine. Jat agreed to sell his machine at Rs60,000. We arrested the accused from Jobner and presented before the court. Now, the court has sent the accused to judicial custody till February 10.”
 
 According to the PCPNDT cell officials, the accused had set up his diagnostic centre in 2004. 
 
 The accused has allegedly violated the norms of PCPNDT Act and also flouted directions of the government issued for strict monitoring of the sonography  . In 2013, the state government had imposed ban on portable sonography machine. Also, the government had issued directions to install active tracker for its strict monitoring. The PCPNDT officials said that in this case, the sonography machine was found without any active tracker. Also, it was found in functional stage. 
 
 Officials said that recently, the owner of the sonography centre had purchased new machine for his diagnostic centre. He registered the new machine for his diagnostic centre. But, he did not mention about the old machine, which he moved from his centre to a residential building, which is also a violation of PCPNDT Act. Officials said that the machine cannot be moved out from the building, which has its registration. 
 
 Now, PCPNDT cell officials have also launched a drive to find out more such portable machines, which are illegal and could be misused for sex selection activities. 
 
 
