Chandigarh: The police on Tuesday arrested the second maternal uncle of the   survivor who had delivered a baby girl on August 17, saying he too had sexually assaulted the girl.

 The 40-year-old accused is the younger brother of the main accused, the maternal uncle of the girl. He was living near the girl’s house and had allegedly raped the girl, police said. He would be produced in a court on Wednesday. The police action came after the girl allegedly named the second uncle, sources said.
 
 Meanwhile, the defence counsel opposed the police request for another DNA test of the rape survivor’s maternal uncle.
 
 The DNA samples taken from the newborn and the accused had not matched. Defence lawyer Manjit Singh has argued that the court has told police to “investigate further”, not “re-investigate”, so they couldn’t take fresh blood samples of the accused. He also argued that if drawing another DNA sample was allowed, then it will become precedent. The judge observed that it was for the court to decide.
 
 The prosecution contended that it was for further investigation only that police required a new sample. The court ordered the defence to file its reply by Wednesday. On Monday, the special investigation team (SIT) had moved the application for a new sample. Police stated they were seeking a “second opinion” or an “analysis”, following which the court issued a production warrant for the consent of the accused.
 
 The 10-year-old girl has identified her maternal uncle as the culprit in the court and recorded in her statement that he has raped her many times. Earlier, a DNA expert from the CFSL (Central Forensic Science Laboratory), Sector 36, also submitted a report and recorded a statement. Police now want tests at another laboratory.
 
 The minor’s rape and pregnancy hit national headlines when the Chandigarh district court dismissed her abortion plea for medical reasons. The Supreme Court also dismissed it. On August 17, minor gave birth to a girl child in Chandigarh. But the DNA report has taken the case back to square one.
 
 BOX:
 
 Case history
 
 July 14 | FIR registered
 
 July 15 | Accused sent to police custody
 
 July 18 | Chandigarh district court dismisses minor’s abortion plea for medical reasons
 
 July 28 | Supreme Court dismisses abortion plea
 
 August 17 | Minor delivers girl child in Sector 32
 
 August 17 | DNA test of the accused conducted
 
 August 25 | Charge sheet filed against the accused
 
 September 11 | DNA report turns out negative
 
 September 15 | Court allows police to investigate further
 
 September 18 | Police request for another DNA test of the accused
 
 
