I met Vrinda when she rejoined office after her second baby’s maternity leave. She moved to my team. She was always like an open book – you didn’t have to dig deep to know her. She was warm, trustworthy and made friends easily. She would always be full of stories about her children, mother, and dog. Her life seemed a constant mayhem of intense activity and she seemed to love every moment of it. She was an attractive young   and going by her petite frame, it was hard to believe that it had barely been six months that she delivered a baby. She was feminine in every sense of the word and I found it difficult to keep my eyes off her any day that she wore a sari and put kohl in her eyes. She was dusky and her deep voice added to her charisma. As much as I tried to resist her, I was getting pulled closer to her each day. I often found myself staring at her and was beginning to wonder if she knew it already.
 
  As fate would have it, we got paired for a dance for an office event. We were to play a couple from yesteryears. I would report late for the practice on purpose, partly because of work load and partly to keep my eagerness under wraps. I would make an effort to carry a blank expression and a detached body language lest she suspected that I was attracted to her. But then, she asked me to open up a little bit so that our staged romance looked natural. She insisted that I put my hands properly on her shoulders and not just fingertips. "I promise you would not be electrocuted," she said. On D-day, she wore a black sari, a big flower in her hair, some antique jewellery and she looked spectacular. Our dance was a big hit and we won the first prize.
  
  Then something unexpected happened. As we all were sitting and chatting one day about our professional past, I mentioned that I was a freelance marriage counselor. She was unusually interested in what could an unmarried person offer as advise to couples. She called me the same evening and poured her heart out. Her husband had taken up a job in another city and she was feeling bottled up here. She had too much to manage and was feeling emotionally starved. I don’t know till date why she chose a simpleton like me, what made her trust me to share the deepest of her womanly desires. I heard her with keenness but was barely able to offer any advice. She explained her issues so intently that I felt that she could have even spoken to a wall that day. We met the next morning at work and one thing led to another and soon we became inseparable friends.
  
  I’ve often thought that society was made to serve the needs of the individuals; individuals were not made to serve the whims of the society. These rules, norms and righteousness can be a heavy burden to carry. Who made these norms at the first place? The ones who created it cannot be so trapped in it that there be no escape route. Physical intimacy was just a natural progression of our beautiful relationship. Our sexual chemistry was astounding. This bond was the complete concoction of emotional, mental and sexual contentment. I cannot explain our treading the infidelity path to anyone when I can barely fathom it myself. How did two conscientious people like us agree to let go the values that were so deeply ingrained in us?
  
  Her husband is a wonderful and affectionate man. Theirs was a love marriage and I completely believe that both of them are truly made of each other. I do not know till date what went so terribly wrong in their relationship that the gap became so huge that I could enter. I would want to take my share of the blame that despite knowing that she’ll never walk out of her marriage and despite knowing that I would not have the courage to support her, I allowed her and me to become us. Even as we strayed, we were clear on two ground rules firstly, her family will be her topmost priority and secondly, she will never share this with anyone. Knowing her, I doubted if she’ll be able to keep the second promise. She strangely did.
  
  This was destined not to be as her husband got to know about us. We parted gracefully, with the understanding that this is in the best interest of both of us. It’s been two years since and she’s found a job in another company and has moved on. She did not want a disturbed childhood for her kids and I did not have the nerve enough to ask her out of her marriage. It was an unspoken agreement between us that this will never materialize into a formal relationship. We’ll never be able to give it a name.
  
  I am beyond any doubt that I love her deeply and miss her in every sense a man can miss a woman. How could two people who are so right for each other meet up in circumstances that are so incorrect for their relationship to flourish? I want to believe in rebirth. I want to live on with the hope that someday this want, this yearning for her will culminate into a socially acceptable relationship. Sometime in next lifetime. Till then she continues to be in my prayers.
  
  
 
  
  
  
