JAIPUR: Six persons tested positive for   from the state on Friday. Three of them were found in Jaipur. So far, eight persons have already tested positive for   January in the city.

 The health department has issued an advisory for people to remain on swine flu alert. “If anyone has swine flu like symptoms, consult the doctor immediately,” a health department official said.
 
 He said that, normally, cases would begin to be reported in December and January and decrease in March. This year, only a few cases were reported during the winter. But in March, more cases of swine flu have are being found.
 
 People should take precautions and give importance to personal hygiene and ward off the risk of swine flu.
 
 On Friday, a 55-year-old woman, relative of a 40-year-old person who tested positive on Thursday, was found to be infected. “She was in contact with the infected person as they live in the same house. She is now undergoing treatment in a private hospital,” Dr  , chief medical health officer, Jaipur, said.
 
 He said that they have conducted a survey of 50 neighbouring houses of patients found with swine flu. “We have distributed Tamiflu tablets to those who were in contact with swine flu patients,” Dr Sharma said.
 
 Besides, a 47-year-old person, resident of Guru Colony on  , has also tested positive for the disease. He was rushed to a private hospital for treatment. Health department officials said that the hospital has admitted the patient for treatment.
 
 A 34-year-old person, resident of   area, was also found with symptoms of swine flu. The doctors conducted a swine flu test. The report, issued on Friday, confirmed that he has been suffering from swine flu. He has also been admitted to a private hospital, where he is undergoing treatment.
 
 Officials said that five persons have died due to swine flu since January 2017.
 
 So far, 101 persons have undergone flu tests in the state this year. However, 77 of them tested negative. From the 24 who tested positive since January, Ajmer reported 4, Nagaur 1, Churu 1, Hanumangarh 2, Jaipur 8, Jodhpur 4 and Pali, Kota and Rajsamand reported one each, the department’s official figures show.
 
