Panaji: After the pay parking fiasco where the twin objectives of haphazard parking and revenue generation failed to be resolved, authorities now hope that a parking policy and masterplan can resolve traffic woes in the state capital.  Under the Smart City mission, a consultant has been asked to assess available parking facilities and to prepare a report on unauthorized parking in Panaji. The parking policy, which is expected to be ready in 12-14 months, will fix pay parking charges and identify locations for multi-tier parking facilities. The parking masterplan will be used to create a smart parking information system in which all parking areas in the city will be identified on a GIS platform. “Consultants are required to prepare a parking policy and parking master plan for Panaji. The preparation of the parking policy and the master plan will include preparation of parking policy, a review of the existing parking condition, a forecast of future parking demand and a business plan and enforcement plan,” an official of Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Limited said. Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Limited is the special purpose vehicle (SPV) formed to implement the Smart City mission for the state capital. The SPV has already floated a tender inviting proposals from reputed consultants who can help prepare the parking policy. “Based on the future projections, we can develop parking facilities in line with the proposed policy and parking demand,” said Sidharth Kuncalienker, mentor for the Panaji Smart City mission. As part of the master plan, locations in the capital will be identified where parking management is necessary. The consultants will also help us identify suitable technology to manage parking facilities, inform motorists of parking facilities and aid in revenue collection, Kuncalienker said. Given that resources available to the civic body are scarce, the public private partnership route will be explored wherein parking facilities could be developed to ensure that they are self-sustained financially. “All stakeholders will be met and their ideas and experiences will be noted through discussions and their recommendations will be incorporated during formulation of the final policy document,” an official said.