NAGPUR:   was considered one of the topmost universities in the country before a tsunami called ‘fake mark-sheet and revaluation scam’, popularly known as ‘Kohchade scam’ named after assistant registrar  , struck in 1999. 

 The scam and its repercussions hit this one of the oldest institutions in the country so hard that it’s still grappling with problems like delay in declaration of results, undervaluation, shortage of employees and many others. Importantly, it failed to regain its prestige, which had once attracted a former Prime Minister to pursue education from one of its affiliated college.
 
 Academicians, associated with the nine-decade-old institution, say even after 18 years, the university is feeling the aftershocks. At the same time, there is also a marked improvement in the overall administration of university.
 
 “It was difficult period when I took over. I had a huge task of bringing the system back on track and ensuring transparency. There was obviously strong opposition initially, but most of them agreed when I personally convinced them. Over the years, the respective vice-chancellors did a good job,” says JS Saharia, former divisional commissioner who was handed over the V-C’s job immediately after the scam surfaced.
 
 In his short tenure of one-and-a-half years, Saharia streamlined NU’s functioning with his strict administration and discipline, and is still remembered by NU officials as one of the best administrators ever.
 
 When the scam first broke out on March 4, 1999, other universities had refused to grant admission to NU students and also blacklisted its degrees. Public notices were put up for not accepting NU students. Senior academicians like Dr Ved Prakash Mishra, who has been closely associated with the university since 1980, feels the era has passed and respective VC’s have done a remarkable job to restore its lost pride. “Of course, there were black days, but with efforts taken by Arun Satputley, SN Pathan and SP Kane, NU is marching ahead.”
 
 The scam led to forced resignations of the then VC Bhalchandra Chopne and pro-VC Yoganand Kale. “It’s still fresh in public memory due to its massive scale. Over the years, it has succeeded in writing a bad chapter in the history of NU. After the scam, some positive developments did took place like the drastic improvement in the examination system,” says senior lecturer Anil Dhage.
 
 Endorsing Dhage’s views, ex-Senate and   member Eknath Kathale says NU has come a long way in plugging loopholes that had led to the scam. “That scam was about malpractices. Now students are facing administrative problems such as delay in announcing results. This is because the NU administration often takes decisions in a haste. It doesn’t bother if colleges affiliated to it have the necessary provisions and infrastructure in place to match the change,” he says adding that a lot still needs to be done.
 
 Most of the academicians are of the opinion that the entire education sector needs more reforms and Kohchade scam was a big eye opener. “Our system is more focused on clearing the exams and not on learning the concepts. We need to completely revamp the system to avoid such kind of scams that spoiled the future of entire generation. The overhaul should begin from the basic system,” says Saharia. 
 
 Another senior academician Baban Taywade says, “The university managed to do really well after the scam. The anomalies were done away with. NU brought in reforms and regularized the system. Proper steps taken after the scam have resulted in smooth functioning of the university,” he says.
 
 THE SCAM STORY
 
 The then assistant registrar Yadav Kohchade allegedly issued fake marksheets, increased marks of engineering students, hid question papers in his chamber and committed other serious offences 
 
 March 4, 1999 | Scam exposed after blank and signed mark-sheet surfaced 
 
 March 11, 1999 | NU senate demands an inquiry
 
 June 19, 1999 | ACB catches Kohchade red-handed while offering bribe to a cop to bury probe in a case pertaining to fake mark lists
 
 June 20, 1999: Ex-Controller of Examination Prakash Mistry lodges police complaint
 
 July-Dec 1999: SIT arrrests NU bigwigs, including the then dean of engineering
 
 Dec 2005: HC constitutes Special Court to hear cases on a day-to-day basis
 
 Jan 2006: AS Gattani named special judge; starts recording evidence
 
 June 2006: Dinanath Nagpure, first beneficiary student, sentenced for seven years 
 
 Dec 28, 2006: Special court convicts Kohchade for the first time
 
 Jan 10, 2007: Court convicts beneficiary Sunil Mishra and former scrutinizer Madhukar Smarth
 
 WHO WERE ARRESTED
 
 * Then assistant registrar Yadav Kohchade
 
 * Ex-scrutinizer Madhukar Smarth
 
 * Ex-controller of examination Prakash Mistry
 
 * First beneficiary student Dinanath Nagpure
 
 * Beneficiary students Sunil Mishra and Mohammad Ishaq
 
 (The accused were either acquitted or granted bail by the special court)
 
 THE CHARGES
 
 More than 100 people, including some 80 beneficiary students, are facing charges of cheating and forgery in several cases
 
 ACTION TAKEN
 
 * The university formed a committee under Justice (retd) MM Qazi and issued several directives streamlining the examination system and post-examination safeguards
 
 * The special code affixed to each document makes it virtually impossible to sell a blank or forged document now
 
 * According to the new rules, it is mandatory for the re-evaluators to enter marks on original answer papers thus leaving no scope for any manipulation of marks
 
 Was taken off case to save big fish: Ex-SPP
 
 Nagpur: Raghavendra Joshi, who was the special public prosecutor ( ) in the Kohchade trial for the first three years, has revealed why his services were discontinued and what he felt about the Nagpur University.
 
 Joshi said he was taken off the case midway on the basis of some innocuous reasons like the fee for hearing would go up since there were nearly 100 cases. After him, the case was handed over to the regular public prosecutor.
 
 Joshi said all the cases were disposed of and those convicted by the special court were later acquitted by the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. “The whole affair was politically motivated. There was a lot of pressure in the case. I haven’t followed much about the scam in the last eight years,” he said.
 
 Asked about his views on Nagpur University vis-à-vis the scam, Joshi said it was one of the reasons he preferred sending his daughter and son to Pune for further studies. “I was the SPP, so I had to avoid any conflict of interest. Still, I feel the teaching standards of Nagpur University are quite low. I don’t think the NU ever enjoyed a good reputation in the country and the scam made matters worse for it,” he said.
 
 
