BIJNOR: Mohammad Naseem, 45, and Hashmi, 41, from Gangadaspur village near   are living a star-crossed lovers’ story with a twist. Naseem and Hashmi were married for 26 years and have four children. They had a normal life till about 10 months ago when a domestic quarrel led to Naseem, in a fit of rage, pronouncing triple talaq on his wife. They patched up in a few days, only to find that the law stood in their way. Specifically, ‘nikah halala’, a rule which states that a divorced couple can only re-marry if the woman is married to another man and consummates the marriage and then gets a divorce. A process which the couple finds “excruciating”. Now Naseem, Hashmi and their children are racking their brains to find a way around the law, but the woman’s parents do not want to go against the diktat of the clerics.
 
  “We understand Naseem’s anxiety and even our daughter wishes to go back to him. But how can we go against the Sharia? He should have thought before giving her divorce. Now, he should find a man who will marry Hashmi and secure a divorce so that he can take her back,” said Mohammad Imamuddin, Hashmi’s father.
  
  A labourer by profession, Naseem even considered getting his “trustworthy” cousin to marry Hashmi for a while, but the implications of ‘nikah halala’ (consummation) were just too much to bear, he said. Moreover, his cousin’s wife was furious with the idea. “I considered it for a moment but a lot of thoughts started plaguing my mind. What if he did not give divorce to her?” asked a distraught Naseem.
  
  While Hashmi could not be contacted, their 13-year-old daughter Rajjo said her mother was in pain but could do little to help herself. “My mother wants to come back home but she cannot go against the wishes of my grandparents. My father’s mistake has caused much sadness in the family,” said Rajjo.
  
  When contacted,   of Bijnor, Arshad Hashmi, said, “The procedure of giving talaq is not as simple as it is made out to be. Ideally, it takes at least three months and each time, the man has to give talaq after each menstruation cycle of the woman. There have been instances when a man has realised his mistake and did not utter talaq after the first utterance. Saying talaq three times at one go is not good even in the eyes of Sharia. I advise the couple to go to Darul Uloom and present their case. There is a possibility that after thorough investigations, the clerics may find out their talaq actually did not take place. But, if the divorce is confirmed then nikah halala is the only way out.”
