MOHALI: Caught on the wrong foot,   School Education Board ( ) has been asked by the   to pay Rs 8.9 crore income tax.The board has never paid income tax before.

 To recover the said amount the I-T department had sealed the bank account of the board for a day in April and transferred Rs 1.5 crore as 10% amount of the total tax payable, including levies and other charges.
 
 However, the board later filed an appeal with the income tax tribunal claiming that they still do not fall under any income tax slab.
 
 PSEB chairman Balbir Singh Dhol said, “We have been taxed by the department last month. We have already filed an appeal in the tribunal and have deposited Rs 1.5 crore. There is some confusion which will be rectified in the appeal. But if there is any tax due it will be paid.“
 
 Sources in the accounts department of the board said that PSEB has been primitive in maintaining accounts. The board is still maintaining accounts on a single entry based system.
 
 They added that this is the first time the board has fallen under the taxable slab.
 
 The tax has been deducted for financial years 2013-14 and 2014-15. The total tax has been calculated at Rs 8.9 crores for the two fiscals.
 
 The tax department discovered that the board in its profit and loss statement has submitted profit in publishing the books and hence imposed the tax.
 
 The board distributes books through Social welfare department and Sarv Siksha Abhiyan ( ) free of cost but to balance the account statements, raised the bill amount which is to be deducted from the profits showing as outstanding amount, said sources.The board failed to show this in the balance sheet, hence was taxed, they added.
 
 The main reason for the board to be caught on the wrong foot is that the accounts department is ill-equipped with technically trained staff in accounting and books maintaining.
 
 While talking to an accounts department staff, TOI learnt that the board in its balan ce sheet has not deducted the depreciation of the various buildings owned by it as well as has not deducted Rs 35 crore annual salaries of its staff. Also, the board's balance sheet failed to mention the outstanding amount to be recovered, which is also to be deducted from the profits.The depreciation of 11 buildings of Adarsh schools owned by PSEB was also not deducted.
 
 After detecting the anomalies, the accounts department has restructured the balance sheets of those two financial years and went in for appeal, said sources.
 
 When asked that how did the mistake happened, accounts officers said the clerical and superintendent staff provided by the board are not qualified to maintain accounts and do not come from the commerce background. They have no knowledge of writing account books and are prone to such mistakes, they said.
 
