At the risk of losing out on a  , India stands virtually alone in boycotting China’s extraordinarily ambitious ‘One Belt,   (OBOR) logistics project to re-energize the millennia-old Silk Road’s trading corridors, which once dominated global commerce. The Chinese plan is gargantuan and complex, with multiple linkages throughout Eurasia and across the Indian Ocean.

 There is a ‘New   Economic Belt’ of land connections and a ‘Maritime Silk Road’ comprising sea routes. It is the latter that holds particularly immense promise for Goa, if India conquers its doubts and joins the network.
 
 With OBOR, China’s aspirations span the globe. Over 60 countries will be involved, committing the participation of two-thirds of the world’s population, 55% of the global GDP and 75% of global energy reserves. Nine hundred infrastructure projects will come under this umbrella, involving at least $1.3 trillion in direct investment from state-controlled institutions led by Beijing.
 
 While several countries (including India) are wary of this forceful international push, seeing it as a bold Chinese initiative to rewrite the geo-strategic status quo, the Communist Party leadership has repeatedly declared its intentions are benign. President Xi Jinping says, “What we hope to create is a big family of harmonious coexistence.”
 
 There are legitimate concerns for India that underlie its reluctance to embrace OBOR. Relations between the Modi and Xi administrations are poor and deteriorating. Beijing blocked India’s bid to enter the Nuclear Suppliers Group, the crucial global cartel for nuclear trade. At the United Nations, China stymied India’s latest attempt to sanction Masood Azhar of Jaish-e-Mohammed. Last month, the Dalai Lama was allowed to visit Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh, which the Chinese foreign ministry called “severe damage on the China-India relationship.”
 
 Still, these minor irritants should not distract from the overwhelming historic logic for much closer ties between India and China. The two ancient civilizations flourished in harmonious contact with each other for thousands of years. Half-Kashmiri and half-Uighur scholar Kumarajiva revived Buddhism in China.
 
 During his service as national teacher under the 5th century emperor Yao Xing, 90% of the population converted to Buddhism. Throughout the intervening centuries, caravanserai from the Far East to Central Asia passed via India with goods to trade at every stop. The 14th century admiral Zheng He repeatedly travelled to India with his armada of the largest ships in the world.
 
 Goa has ‘One Belt, One Road’ logic embedded in its DNA. This insignificantly tiny riparian territory has nonetheless repeatedly stood centrepiece of a web of vital maritime connections. The Kadamba kings welcomed traders from across the Indian ocean and once appointed an Arab chief minister. Adil Shah’s reign was even more cosmopolitan. Then, after 1510, Alfonso de Albuquerque’s spectacular seizure of the entire sea routes of the Indian ocean comprehensively rewrote global economic history, with Goa as its most valuable hub.
 
 To the extent accurate historical analogies exist to China’s OBOR, they come from the colonial past. British, French, Dutch and Portuguese empires all linked distant points of the globe together, with drastic and consequential results. At one point, it was accurately said “the sun never sets on the British empire” because so much of the world’s territory was controlled from London. France also extended to South America and the South Pacific along with Africa and Asia. Before them all, however, it was the Portuguese who created the blueprint, and no spot on the planet better reflects the impact of global linkages than Goa.
 
 In social sciences, “the law of unintended consequences” predicts unforeseen developments and circumstances will blindside any purposeful action. This is what happened in the breakneck chaos of 16th century globalization. The tiny port city of Goa exploded to twice the population of London and Paris combined. In the area of food habits alone India transformed forever — chillies, corn, potatoes and tomatoes entered the subcontinent for the first time.
 
 And because roads run in both directions, the rest of the world transformed too — products, ideas and techniques flowed out from the subcontinent, from Goa, directly to Europe, to South East Asia and China, and all the way to Brazil. Within a short time, the Portuguese had lost control. Everything that followed was unpredictable and unplanned, and Goans benefited more than most.
 
 The 21st century’s information age ensures fewer surprises lurk than during the Age of Discoveries. But the basic principles of increased openness remain. Everything flows in both directions. You cannot predict the winners, and it is also possible that everyone will win. This is the underlying message of Goa’s history, with lasting value for every other part of the world. With all due caution, India must find a way to participate in China’s hugely important revitalization of the ancient trade routes. They served the subcontinent very well for much of history, and can do so again.
 
 The writer is a photographer and widely published columnist. Views expressed are his own
 
 
