 Panaji: The All India Football Federation (AIFF) has given the go ahead for clubs and academies to field foreign players in youth and kids leagues.   The AIFF introduced the U-15 Youth League two years ago and will allow U-13 players to get a taste of competitive football starting this season. While foreign players were never allowed in youth leagues, the AIFF will make an exception for the U-13 and U-15 leagues.    “Clubs and academies can register a maximum of three foreign/OCI/PIO players after completing required formalities mentioned in the Fifa regulations on the status and transfer of players in their total quota of 30 players for Under-13 and Under-15 youth leagues,” the AIFF said in a circular to all clubs and academies.    The decision – which comes close on the heels of a proposal to allow clubs register eight foreign players in the I-League -- has been approved by the AIFF executive committee but, quite expectedly, drew frowns from participating clubs with defending U-15 Youth League champions Minerva Punjab FC scathing in its criticism.    “This is taking Indian football to a new low. I was fuming over the AIFF’s decision to increase foreign players in the I-League and now we get to hear that they are allowing foreign players in U-13 and U-15 leagues. Assuming we will have about 30 teams participating in each league, we will have close to 200 U-13 and U-15 foreign players in India!,” said Minerva Punjab FC owner Ranjit Bajaj.    Minerva have set the standard in youth leagues and have already contributed 10 players to the India U-17 World Cup.    “If the AIFF had only allowed OCI/PIO card holders to play in India, I would have backed it to the hilt. We need to give them opportunities; they have Indian blood flowing in them and should not be denied the chance to play because of technicalities, or absence of a passport. But allowing foreign players in junior leagues is ridiculous,” said Bajaj.    The AIFF, though, has its own reasons to allow such a move.    According to one official, there are many foreign players already training with several academies in India and they should not be denied the chance to play competitive football.    “There are lots of kids with foreign passports in India. There are children of diplomats and other officials. Our own Indian kids have foreign passports. Why should we stop them? In the higher age groups (U-16 and U-18), foreign players are not allowed,” said the official.