Nagpur: There seems to be difference in opinion among doctors about the diet to be adopted to prevent diabetes. Dr PP Joshi, who was installed as president of Association of Diabetes on Sunday, has cited a recent study to claim that carbohydrates is more harmful than fats as far as diabetes is concerned.

 Joshi, who heads Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGMCH) medicine department, based his comment on an international study of which he too was a part. 
 
 Contradicting Joshi’s claims, past AIIMS (Delhi) professor Dr Anoop Misra, who is an authority on nutrition, says one study won’t change the scenario and it’s well proven that fats are bad.
 
 The discussion took place at the installation ceremony of Association of Diabetes held in the city on Sunday. Dr Sanket Pendsey was installed as secretary of the association.
 
 Referring to the population-based study conducted under the World Heart Federation president Dr Salim Yusuf of the McMaster University in Canada, Joshi said, “Seventeen countries, including India, participated in the study which had started a few months ago and is still underway. The results of one of its three phases are quite controversial.”
 
 Joshi shared that he was the member of steering committee of the study, but later got more involved with IGMCH. He said, “While diabetes is increasing in India, if people stop consuming carbohydrate, its progress can be halted.”
 
 Joshi said, “As per the finding, carbohydrate intake is harmful and is associated with Cardio Vascular Diseases (CVD). It is also true that CVD forms the main cause of deaths among diabetic patients. On the other hand, the salt intake (fat) in patients isn’t a strong reason for them being diabetic.”
 
 He said, “The study will be highly discussed in future. The findings are challenging the nutritional guidelines of WHO and World Heart Association.”
 
 Misra, who installed Joshi at the ceremony, said, “I am not very fond of incident-based studies. I have a clear opinion that fat is bad, while trans-fat is the worst of all. Nobody says it’s good. There are studies done in the last 30 years to prove it. One study cannot change the scenario.”
 
 Though diabetes is found to be more common among the affluent class, Misra and Joshi, were unanimous in their opinion that the rate of diabetes is increasing people from low social-economic background too.
 
 Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences Chancellor Dr Vedprakash Mishra was the guest of honour during the ceremony. Immediate past president Dr Ajay Kaduskar and past secretary Dr Amol Meshram were also present on the dais.
 
 
