CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that a  , who has   a day before her appointment in government service, will not be entitled to the benefits of maternity leave. Issuing the order, the HC made it clear that the employee had to be in the government service at the time of giving birth to a child. Justice   passed these orders on May 4 while dismissing a petition filed by   of Rohtak.

 The petitioner, a staff nurse at Pandit Bhagwat Dyal Sharma University of Health Science (Rohtak), had delivered child a day before her joining the service in the institute and had approached the HC for maternity leave on the grounds that her appointment was delayed because the institute had not acted promptly. The rules governing the maternity leave contains a proviso that the grant of maternity leave shall have to be so regulated that the date of confinement falls within the period of this leave.
 
 Her counsel argued that it is a hard case and the petitioner had given birth to a child only one day prior to her joining. According to counsel, if the institute had acted in promptitude in finalizing the selection, the petitioner would have joined before the date of confinement and would have been entitled to maternity leave.
 
 “In the present case, the date of confinement of the petitioner unfortunately happened to be a date prior to her joining the service. In my opinion, this argument cannot be so stretched by the petitioner. The fact of the matter is that on the date when the petitioner gave birth to a child she was not in government service. In the circumstances, rule 8.127(a) of the Punjab Civil Services Rules cannot be brought into operation to grant maternity leave”, observed the HC while dismissing her petition.
 
 The petitioner had delivered a child on April 14 and on April 15, she was issued the appointment letter for the post of staff nurse in the institute. On joining the department, she applied for the 180-day maternity leave, which she was not allowed. Aggrieved over this, she had moved a petition before the HC, stating that there was no requirement that a woman should be in employment at the time of delivery. This is a beneficial legislation and such ground cannot be taken to  , she had contended.
 
