NAGPUR: On average, one person committed suicide in rural areas of Nagpur district last year. The year 2016 saw 366 suicides in the district, except Nagpur city, a reply to an RTI query by activist Abhay Kolarkar has revealed.

 The reply threw up some surprising statistics about specific crimes such as chain snatchings and kidnappings that are generally considered urban phenomena. The district witnessed 28 chain snatchings and as many as 111 kidnappings in 2016, besides 66 rapes.
 
 The rural branch has jurisdiction over 22 police stations and six divisions comprising towns like Umred, Katol, Saoner, Butibori, Kalmeshwar, Kondhali, Mouda and others.
 
 Speaking about growing number of suicides, assistant police inspector (API) at Nagpur (Rural) Branch, HM  , who furnished the  , said farmers comprised a majority of those who chose to end their lives. “Since the data pertains to 22 police stations in the rural area, which is a big area as compared to the city, the number may seem higher. Besides farmers, some suicides also took place due to domestic violence and dowry, which are common issues in these areas,” he said.
 
 The RTI reply states that fatal accidents constituted the highest number of deaths last year in rural areas. Sayyad clarified that these were due to ghastly mishaps on highways connecting towns. “With roads being expanded to four and six lanes, speeding vehicles caused most of the mishaps. However, the number of deaths due to accidents decreased significantly in last few years due to increased patrolling,” Sayyad said.
 
 However, the number of thefts jumped significantly to 965 in comparison with 2015. The API attributed it to the Supreme Court’s directives to to lodge an FIR for every complaint. “We also spread awareness among rural folks to lodge a complaint for any offence including theft of bicycles and motorcycles. This is done with view to start a probe into the incidents, even if it is a hoax,” he said. Talking about the high number of kidnapping cases, Sayyad said that the police have been directed to register an FIR in case any person below 18 years goes missing. “Many times, there are many runaways in this category as well,” Sayyad said.
 
 In the same period, 416 crimes against women took place, including 66 rapes, 175 molestations, 64 dowry cases, and sexual harassment. The cops seized about 1,943kg of narcotics worth Rs1.93 crore from various places during raids. Though Sayyad claimed that rate of conviction has jumped last year, over 4,250 cases are pending in the rural courts by end of December last year.
 
 
