INDORE:  's residential academy at   will soon be a reality, hinted SAI director general cum Secretary of Sports, Injeti Shrinivas here on Saturday.

 Impressed with the sports facilities emerging in the city and foreseeing potential international athletes here, Shrinivas said, "Certainly, SAI academies are on the cards for Indore and we will go systematically about setting up academies here in partnership with state government and some private academies also."
 
 "When facilities of international standards are here, it makes it very easy to establish an academy on a sustainable basis, so I am quite optimistic about setting up academies here. We'll only have to decide the sports disciplines which are priority and what would be the level of academy — regional or national level," added Shrinivas while talking to TOI after attending the closing ceremony of   2017 finals at Abhay Prashal.
 
 Meanwhile, Indore has emerged as a sports hub with number of international and national level players coming up from here. The city also hosted international and national level tournaments successfully in the recent years.
 
 Be it the international test and one day cricket matches or  , Asian kho-kho championship or National snooker championship, World Junior Circuit finals (Table Tennis) or   championship, the list of recently hosted major league events is long enough to grab attention.
  
 Even the city-based sports experts have been emphasizing on getting a SAI residential academy here as they feel that there is a lot of potential and raw talent in Indore as well as the neighbouring rural areas. Setting up a sports academy in Indore instead of Bhopal would be more helpful for such budding players, they said.
  
 Shrinivas also emphasized on organising more international-level tournaments in the country and said "We need to try and organise more international tournaments in India so that more local players can take part in it as not all can travel abroad to take part in such tournaments."
 
