NAGPUR: A closed circuit television ( ) footage of little more than five minutes, between 2.53am and 3am, captured a jeans-clad man with a thick stubble setting afire two-wheelers of inmates of girls’ hostel number 2 at Government medical college and hospital (GMCH) in the wee hours of Thursday. Couple of two-wheelers, belonging to two third year students of GMCH, were gutted down while three others parked in the vicinity were miraculously saved as the inmates promptly reacted to douse the flames. 

 The latest incident, which is second within a year, is learnt to have now left the female medicos feeling insecure. On June 2 last year, an unidentified person had set eight two-wheelers on fire at the parking slot of hostel number 2 for female medicos where the latest incident has taken place. While CCTV footage was installed after the last year’s incident, there was no proper arrangement for guards at the hostel. Male guards are posted in three shifts who generally locks themselves up in the night. Even during the latest incident, the male guard on duty remained asleep in his room when the miscreant doused the vehicles with an inflammable liquid before setting them afire. “One of the female medico from ground floor was the first to sense foul smell of something on fire. The students felt that it could a short-circuit from cooler but later realized the vehicles engulfed as another inmate from second floor raised the alarm,” said an eyewitness. 
 
 Based on the CCTV footage, police claimed that the miscreant may be one of the male medico residing at the same premises. Some of the GMCH officials also have expressed their concern that the culprit may be a student from their hospital. Intriguingly, an message from   (MARD) started going around on some social media groups where the body requested the media to play down the incident as it could spoil the career of a second year student who is suffering from psychiatric illness. However, the cops from Ajni police station seem to be in no mood to spare the culprit. “Whoever has done it would go behind bars as we have already registered offence against him. Today he has set vehicles on fire but there could be bigger damage from him which needs to be stopped,” said a senior cop. Police feels that kerosene was used to trigger the fire. 
 
 The CCTV footage showed that the man, who retreated as one of the vehicle bursts into flames, returned to set more vehicles from fire. As he tried to set five vehicles on fire, the culprit managed to damage two. As the male guard stood helplessly, it was the female students who fought the flames with the fire-extinguishers available on the premises bringing the fire under control before it could lead to more damage. 
 
 Two-wheelers of Deeksha Kumre and   were gutted down while two of their friends bravely pulled back their own vehicles, parked close to the ones damaged, to safety with the flames rising almost seven-feet high. The female medicos, who lamented that even most of the fire extinguishers were defunct, had managed to control the flames with their makeshift arrangements even before fire brigade or police could reach. The lone male guard is learnt to have played the role of mute spectator when the girls were fighting the situation. 
 
 The students had later staged a dharna outside the dean Dr Abhimanyu Niswade’s office demanding proper security measures and guards. The anger among the students were rising as they claimed to have got no concrete from the dean. The students later decided to disperse after their group leaders intervened after speaking to the dean. 
 
