Festivities will begin in Maharashtrian homes across the city after 8.27am on Tuesday, heralding the most auspicious hours to perform the puja for Gudi Padwa.

 Feasting on sweets specially prepared for the occasion, and meeting and greeting family and friends will follow.
 
 “Amavasya continues till 8.27am, so consecration of the gudi or the puja should be done after it ends. This is an auspicious day and important events like 'griha pravesh', purchasing  , property or cars can be done at any time of the day hereafter. People worship the gudi and Lord  ,“ Pan dit Avdhut Joshi said.
 
 Counted among the threeand-a-half most auspicious muhurats in the calmanac, families usually make it memorable by buying cars, property and even jewellery.
 
 Gudi Padwa marks the start of Chaitra month as per the Hindu calendar celebrating Lord Rama's victorious return to Ayodhya after slaying Ravana. It also ushers in the new harvest season. Preparations begin a few days in advance when families clean their homes to usher in the new season and procure stuff needed for the gudi and the pooja. Many buy new clothes for the day , especially for children. Puran poli and 'thandai' made with raw mangoes.
 
 Entrances of homes are decorated with colourful 'rangoli' and flowers early in the mor ning. Tradi tionally, a gudi is a bamboo stick covered with a bright silk cloth with an inverted copper pot decorated with a swastik and adorned with garlands of 'gaathi' or sugar crystals, mango and neem leaves and red flowers that represent victory and prosperity. It marks the beginning of good times for the family. The mood in the market is upbeat,  , chairman and managing director of   and director of the  , said.
 
 “This Padwa looks promising as gold rates are between Rs 28,000 and Rs 29,000. The market sentiment is positive, the wedding season is starting, hence customers are interested in buying right now. Furthermore, the money crunch after demonetization has ended. There is renewed confidence in the government due to the current election results, and people are positive about investing in gold. It seems like an advantage for the gems and jewellery industry,“ he added.
 
