MUMBAI: Motorists were stuck in a long snarl on the   on Monday as police closed the Thane-bound arm of the Amar Mahal Junction flyover after some of its joints were found to be damaged. The traffic woes are likely to continue for some weeks as the PWD is trying to figure out how to repair the bridge, which has a unique design--a concrete bridge mounted on a steel structure. The PWD has roped in IIT-B to find a solution.

 The snarl went up to Vikhroli on the north side and Kurla on the south. There was a huge jam on the   too. To avoid a cave-in, the public works department (PWD) has provided a support structure underneath the damaged portion of the flyover. A PWD official said, “We have also decided to stop east-west (Ghatkopar-Chembur) traffic under the bridge so as to bypass the damaged portion above. Instead of going straight under the bridge, motorists will have to take a slight left. We have begun laying asphalt on both sides of the road that passes under the flyover to divert traffic.“
 
 “It will take several weeks and months before traffic will be allowed on the north arm and below the flyover,“ he added.
 
 Businessman  , who drives down from Chembur to Thane in 45 minutes every day , said it took him two hours on Monday . “There was a mess in Chembur. Traffic was not moving. The few cops posted there were helpless. Though repairs started on Saturday , the effect was felt more today as it was a Monday .“
 
 Dr Sandeep Rane, a Chembur resident, said, “Britishers built bridges that long for over 100 years and this bridge is not even 30 years old. Officials should be held accountable. Contractor found doing shoddy work should be punished and put in jail.“
 
 A traffic police official said, “We will deploy more cops from Tuesday to ensure proper traffic management.“
 
 While the bridge's steel structure was built by Quadricon Pvt Ltd, the foundation and the sub-structure was built by Simplex. IIT professor Ravi Sinha said, “We are going to do computer simulation with sophisticated technology to identify the cause. The fact that the bridge suffered damages after so many years of construction indicates the design may not be flawed.“
 
