NEW DELHI: Two youths were allegedly thrashed at a market in south Delhi’s   on Sunday by two men in a case of mistaken identity. 

 The brothers were left shocked when nobody came forward to help them despite their repeated pleas. The victims are from Manipur and students of  .
 
 The incident took place at 5pm near the house of the victims in Kishangarh when they had gone to purchase household items. 
 
 The younger brother, Mathiu, saw a stall selling baseball bats at cheap rates and went to buy it.
 
 On their way back the brothers decided to have some juice. Mathiu was then pushed by the two men onto the juice stall. 
 
 “Before I could pick up my brother, one of the men hit me on my back and snatched the baseball bat from my hand. The men were furious and told us they wanted to take revenge about something. I was shocked to hear it as neither my brother nor I had seen them before,” said the elder brother, Ningthuilung.
 
 “We enjoyed playing baseball back home so I thought of buying the bat as it was being sold at a very cheap rate. Little did we know that we would soon be   with the bat and it would be broken into pieces,” he added. 
 
 They were hit on their legs and taken to a nearby private hospital for treatment.
 
 The accused men had got into a heated argument with two youths on Sunday morning. While they were crossing the market, they mistook the brothers for the youths with whom they had had the argument as they had “similar looks”. They then beat up the brothers with the baseball bat.
 
 “Ever since we shifted to Delhi, we have never been in an argument with anyone, leave aside a scuffle. I am filing an FIR because the reaction of locals at the market was outrageous. How can anybody not react when they see someone being thrashed? If someone had been attacked in our hometown, we would have rushed to help him. This was an eye opener for us,” said Ningthuilung.
 
 A case under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) has been registered at   North police station. 
 
 The accused men have been arrested, said a senior police officer.
 
