PUNE: The threat of rain, pressure to qualify for the playoffs and a bagful of other equations died a natural death as Steve Smith-led   defeated Kings XI Punjab by nine wickets in their   match on Sunday.

 Punjab, who had won four out of their last five games, saw an anti-climax as they were bowled out to 73, their lowest-ever total in the tournament. Pune chased the below-average score in 12 overs with nine wickets in hand and the sun yet to set.
 
 In the must-win game for both the teams, the hosts displayed their best game in two years of their existence to progress for their first Playoffs spot at a packed MCA Stadium. Other than their bowling, Pune's fielding was another highlight of the day.
 
 Bowling first after Smith won the toss, Pune pacers, Jaydev Unadkat, Shardul Thakur, Daniel Christian and  , were in sync with the wicket that offered good bounce and movement.
 
 Unadkat's first delivery of the match saw Punjab opener Martin Guptill out on a golden duck. The pacer's offcutter was pushed by Guptill straight towards   at short cover. But the opener's wicket was just the beginning. The powerplay, which is normally dominated by the batsmen, belonged to Pune bowlers.
 
 Unadkat's opening partner Shardul Thakur held the other end and bowled a tight line. He was rewarded sooner than he expected with Shaun Marsh giving a catch to Smith near mid-off.
 
 Later, a charged up Unadkat was involved in three other dismissals. He hit the stumps with a direct throw to dismiss Eoin Morgan at the non-strikers' end and later dived to take a difficult catch of Rahul Tewatia off Thakur. He took his second wicket by forcing Swapnil Singh to edge the ball straight to MS Dhoni's gloves. The Saurashtra bowler was rightly named the man of the match.
 
 By the powerplay ended, Punjab were 32-5 and that pretty much summed up the match. Thakur ended the game with 4-0 19-3, while Christian, Adam Zampa and Unadkat returned with two wickets each. Stokes went wicket-less, but with a figure of 3-0-10-0, he was holding the other end well. Axar Patel (22) was the highest scorer for Punjab.
 
 The chase never looked a problem for RPS, as opener   (34 n.o) and Rahul Tripathi (28) along with Smith reached the target in 12 overs.
 
 
