Superstar   embarked on a train journey from Mumbai to his hometown Delhi on Monday, to promote ' ', up, close and personal among his fans. Director  , producer   and  , who has a special dance number 'Laila Main Laila' in the film, also joined SRK on the August Kranti Express, which they boarded from Mumbai Central. The train ride was keeping in sync with SRK’s character in 'Raees', which is that of a man connected to his roots. The actor was kicked about undertaking a train journey and got nostalgic as 25 years ago, he had taken a train to Mumbai from Delhi, during his first visit to the Maximum City. 

 It was a treat for SRK’s co-passengers, who were awed by his presence. People also gathered in huge numbers at railway stations where the train halted, to catch a glimpse of the Bollywood Badshah. Fans have always held a special place in Shah Rukh’s heart and he, too, was excited to meet them. No matter how chaotic, he too reached out to them by waving at the crowd from the door, acknowledging their love for him. SRK even tweeted from time-to-time about this overwhelming experience. Interestingly, SRK, over the years, has had many iconic train sequences -- be it in 'Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge', 'Dil Se, Kuch Kuch Hota Hai', 'Ra.One', or 'Chennai Express'. 
 
 
 
 What made this journey even more memorable were cricketer brothers Irfan and   greeting Shah Rukh Khan in Vadodara during his adventurous train ride. The brothers arrived at Vadodara railway station, where the train had a short halt. Yusuf, who is an integral part of SRK’s IPL team, Kolkata Knight Riders, had donned a pathani like SRK’s in Raees a few days back, and posted the picture on social media. He is a huge Shah Rukh fan and was bowled over by his raw, rugged look in the film. SRK too was moved by Irfan and Yusuf’s warm gesture of making their way through the crowd and chaos, just to meet him. The Pathan brothers once again sported the Raees look by wearing pathanis and pulling it off in style. Fans were ecstatic to see the trio together and went berserk when SRK began waving out to them. 
 
 The journey turned out to be a memorable event for King Khan, and will stay close to his heart for years to come. Those who couldn’t be a part of this unique train ride, can watch the superstar on the big screen in an anti-hero avatar as 'Raees', which also stars the very talented, Nawazuddin Siddiqui. The film releases on January 25. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
