PUNE: Participants at the first edition of the Fame Lab contest in India took to unique examples to explain scientific concepts to the general public.

 Examples comparing electron transfer in an lithium-ion battery to the plot of a bollywood movie was well received by the audience at the event held on Wednesday at the Indian Institute of Science Engineering and Research, Pune. 
 
 The winner will represent India at The   in the UK for the Fame Lab International competition in June 2017. Fame Lab is a competition where contestants have to explain complex scientific principles in 3 minutes to public without using digital aids.
 
 The competition saw over 300 applications from Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) students, researchers and professionals from across 24 cities in India. 12 finalists (the top 3 winners from North, East, South and West zone) competed in the nationals.
 
 Sumeet Kulkarni, contestant from Pune’s IISER used mouth organ to play Star Wars title track to get people’s attention and then began with, “Once upon a time in a universe far far away,” and then goes on to talk about gravitational waves as if it is a children’s story.
 
 “To explain a scientific topic to a layman is a huge challenge. We have to cut all the jargon and talk about the very basic stuff on how things work in the most simplified way possible,” said Mayur Bonkile from IIT Bombay, who cited the bollywood example. He won the   and will represent India in the international finals in UK.
 
 Kulkarni said while they had gone through the material available online, it was the training by the organizers that helped polish their talent. “When we are presenting something in a scientific circle, we get 45 minutes and use powerpoint and other modes to present our topic. Here, we have three minutes and just our talent to get the meaning across,” Sumeet, who won the third prize and will also go for the UK finals, said.
 
 Popular choice award and second prize went to Rini Sharon. Priyanka Taludkar from IIT Guwahati used Bharatnatyam to explain science. “Bharatnatyam is about expressions and story-telling. So I thought, why not use the mudras to explain science,” said Taludkar.
 
 Karl Byrne, trainer from UK was once a contestant and the love for Fame Lab made him into a full time science communicator. “It is important in the present world to be able to explain what science and its various discoveries mean to the common public. It also helps the contestants to interact with other researchers in other fields in other countries helping build a great network. We have an alumni base of 5,000 multi-disciplinary, multi-nationals in Fame Lab,,” said Byrne.
 
 Contestants were judged based on the content, clarity and charisma of their presentation by K P Madhu, Science writing and broadcasting consultant, Deepak Pathania, host and creative director, D’Art of Science and Sharon Memis, British Council, director, west India.
 
