CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday called on   vice-chairman   and reiterated his request for a one-time waiver and   by the Union government of the term loan taken by the   state.

 He also discussed special measures to help out the beleaguered farming sector and special packages for debt waiver, industrialization and border area development. According to an official spokesperson, a team of NITI Aayog is likely to visit Punjab for detailed discussions with the state government for the development of the region through crop diversification, industrial revival and other programmes.
 
 While the NITI Aayog has assured the chief minister that Punjab would not be impacted by industrial incentives to the states of Uttakahand, Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, Amarinder suggested a special industrial package for Punjab along a 40-km belt in the sensitive border area.
 
 “There is a strong need to encourage micro, small and medium enterprises in Punjab with similar incentives in the border belt and in sub-mountainous area along the hilly tracts to promote employment and bring buoyancy in the tax revenue of the state,” he said, adding that it was also necessary for a balanced regional development. He further urged the Central government to promote a petro-chemical hub adjoining the Bathinda refinery for manufacturing value-added products.
 
 Even as he reiterated his request for financial support to mitigate the fiscal distress of the farmers reeling under huge debt burdens, Amarinder sought the support of the Aayog and the Union government for encouraging agro food parks, especially in horticulture, in the state.
 
 The Punjab CM also sought from the aayog price deficiency support for maize and other crops as per MSP, in addition to wheat and paddy, to encourage farmers to opt for alternate cropping to increase their earnings. He urged the aayog to provide the state with technical support in preparing a roadmap for increasing the income of the farmers. The issues of drip irrigation, water conservation and management also came up for discussion at the meeting.
 
