HYDERABAD: The killing of an Indian man in Olathe,   city, US is being described as hate crime by a local pastor.  , a local pastor posted about the incident on his FB account, saying, “Please join me in praying for the family of Srinivas Kuchibhotla, who was killed in what appears to be a hate crime last night at Austins Bar and Grill in Olathe, and for   and Ian Grillot who were injured in the shooting. Srinivas was an engineer for Garmin as is Alok. The shooter is reported to have shouted, "get out of my country" before shooting. I'm praying for all in our community who feel anxious or afraid today because of this attack."

 Ian Grillot, who tried to intervene when Srinivas and Alok were being 'racially abused', was also shot at by the gunman. Ian’s family said he was someone who would not tolerate any body being subjected to such treatment and therefore his nature had always been to intervene. 
 
 The alleged culprit Adam Purinton, 51, was arrested after the police launched a man-hunt for him.
 
 The incident happened at Austin’s Bar and Grille in south Olathe near 151st Street and Mur-Len Road on Wednesday evening (Kansas time 7.15 pm). Both Srinivas and Alok were working for Garmin in aviation systems engineering team.
 
 Srinivas Kuchibhotla, who had studied engineering from JNTU went to the US and did his master’s in electrical and electronics engineering from the University of Texas at El Paso. Later, he took a job at Garmin.
 
 Alok Madasani, on the other hand had studied engineering from   in Hyderabad, following which he went to the US for his masters at the University of Missouri, Kansas city.
 
 Eye-witnesses told Kansas police, after a 'heated argument' at Austin’s, the alleged culprit went out, came back with his gun, and fired at the three of them. There was chaos following the shoot-out. The suspect was apprehended at a school where he was hiding.
 
 “Sorry sir this is not most Americans. Should not have happened,” Benjamin Long of Lee’s summit, Missouri who felt sad at the incident tweeted.
 Other Americans too, came out with words of comfort for the family of the victims.
  
 “I'm of Indian descent but grew up in Olathe and Gardner. I've always felt proud of where I live, but that's not the case anymore. Things have changed,” Shevy Sehrawat, a local resident, said.
 
 Hank   said the fact that the alleged culprit had some kind of mental disorder was not reason enough for him to kill. He said : Racism isn't a mental disorder. It's a choice people make. They choose to be irrationally scared of people's skin color. This is the America we live in, the fear mongering has taken over due to a certian someone. This guy is just bottom of the barrel filth and unfortunately the fear mongering is daily "news" on certain tv stations and certian AM radio programs.”
 
 Kathleen M Isabell, also reacted to the incident saying, "I'm not sure why it's relevant that the alleged shooter has PTSD and a possible severe illness. I have PTSD and it's a terrible and disabling condition to live with. But it does NOT cause me to use racial slurs and shoot people. I'd guess the guy was a bigoted [donkey's posterior] before he was afflicted with PTSD. I wish the injured people a full and speedy recovery.”
 
