PATNA: The   2017 by   (UMSAS), a wing of the industries department, is drawing good response from people at   in the national capital. 

 Altogether 50 stalls displaying handlooms and handicrafts made by the state artisans have been put up at Dilli Haat for Bihar Diwas celebration which started on March 16 and will conclude on March 31.
 
 The exhibition-cum-sale is showcasing tourism, tradition, art, culture and cuisines of Bihar. The main attractions at these stalls are Bhagalpuri silk, Madubani paintings, bamboo handicrafts, terracotta home décor items, jute crafts, Tikuli art, Siki products, famous handloom bed sheets of Bans Bigha, wooden crafts and leather products.
 
 The food court features a menu of mouthwatering Bihari cuisines like litti chokha, sonpapdi, makhna kheer, jalebi, rajbogh, malpua, thikuva and gajak.
 
 Ashok Kumar Sinha, deputy director of UMSAS, Patna, said “Apart from handicrafts and handloom exhibition, daily cultural programme by top artistes, showcasing of art, culture and heritage of Bihar will be organised from March 22.”
 
 The in-charge of Bihar Utsav, Renu Thakur, said, “A musical academy, Nalanda Sangeet Kala Vikas Sansthan, will perform regional songs on March 22. Usha Musical Group and Bhojpuri singer Amar Anand will perform on March 24 while on March 25, Bhojpuri singer   will present religious songs.”
 
 The entrepreneurs who sat up their stalls at Dilli Haat are satisfied with the response of the people. A Patna-based entrepreneur Sunita Praklash has created trendy kettles and tea-pots. “I used Madhubani painting on these kettles and people really appreciate my creation. I have a whole range of block printing and hand printing products like sari, salwar suit, stole, bags and folders. It ranges from Rs 50 to Rs 7,500,” she said.
 
 Another entrepreneur from Patna, Sanjiv, who exhibited handmade jute products was overwhelmed with the selling at Dilli Haat. “People are attracted towards wall hangings, lamps, baskets, bags, wallets, files and paintings. The main advantage of jute is its eco-compatibility. It has been considered an ecologically sound fibre because of its inherent properties,” he said. 
 
