NAGPUR: Central Railway divisional railway manager (DRM) Brijesh Kumar Gupta has decided to push for regularization of Nagpur-Amritsar and Nagpur-Pune  .

 On March 4, TOI had reported the mess over these budgeted air-conditioned superfast special trains which are being operated by seeking extensions from time to time for the last two years.
 
 The latest move comes after a delegation of Khalsa Seva Dal submitted a memorandum to Gupta on March 8, demanding to regularize the train by changing its days.
 
 Gupta told TOI, “There is no problem in regularizing these special trains. However, changing days of trains is an inter-zonal issue. This will also need sanction from other railway zones in between. I have sent proposal to headquarters and the   will take a final call. I am pushing for it.”
 
 Harjinder Singh Juneja, member of Khalsa Seva Dal, said the delegation highlighted practical difficulties to the DRM. For example, the special train to Amritsar operates on Saturdays when there are at least five trains towards Delhi within a span of four hours. So, only those travelling to Amritsar will prefer the train.
 
 Another member Madhu Kapoor said similar is the issue with Nagpur-Pune AC special train, which operates on Tuesdays. “Who would prefer special train to Pune when   is available for Rs 800? The fare of special train is Rs 1,545,” she said.
 
 “We suggested to operate the train to Amritsar on either Wednesdays or Fridays instead of Saturday. On these two days, there is no train from 4pm to 8.30pm. We also suggested to operate the train to Pune on any other day instead of Tuesday,” said  , member of zonal railway users’ consultative committee (ZRUCC).
 
 Presently, the special train is not punctual on both Pune and Amritsar direction. Once regularized with changed days, the traffic is likely to pick up, the delegation told the DRM.
 
 Nagpur-Amritsar-Nagpur (0125-0126) has been extended till April 3 and Ajni-Pune-Ajni (02123-02124) till April 7. Railway sources said these trains are expected to be regularized and, hence, no further extension may be granted.
 
