PUNE: The civic body's half-hearted efforts to clear up garbage has given citizens the opportunity to make efforts on their own.
A group of citizens, who call themselves  , collect plastic waste from housing societies for conversion into poly fuel.   and   are reaching out to societies and individuals requesting them to part with uncollected plastic from homes.This plastic is converted into poly fuel which can be used for generators, boilers and cooking fuels in place of kerosene.
 
 “People segregate garbage but civic authorities mix it together. From this garbage, the waste pickers only pick out bottles and most of the plastic is left in the garbage itself. We are able to take care of every type of plastic,“ Banerjee said. The word has spread with nearly 400 members individually giving plastic to Eco Warriors and many more willing to get connected through social media, she added.
 
 The Poonawalla group is chipping in to keep the city clean too. Adar Poonawalla's clean city initiative is about a private company spending to improve the waste management system of a city. Poonawalla has chipped in with Rs 100 crore to turn Pune in to one of the cleanest cities in the country .
 
 Recently , Prime Minister   had appreciated this effort. He took note of vari ous high-end technologies pressed into making Pune one of the cleanest cities in India that include the Glutton vacuum litter picker and the Trilo small truck that many can spot doing the rounds of the city .
 
 The first phase of this cleanliness campaign covers roughly 30km of roads in Pune and the second phase will reach the whole city which is approximately 1,200km of roads.
 
 Janwani, an NGO has partnered with PMC, Cummins India, SWaCH, waste pickers and other stakeholders to establish a zero garbage ward in Katraj area.
 
 “PMC, politicians and citizens have to come together to solve the garbage problem. There is no place for any third agency .PMC and citizens will have to take care of garbage. Citizens' participation is necessary to solve the garbage problem. A sustainable solution lies in participatory process and it is time citizens question politicians about their role in this process,“ Satish Khot of National Society of Clean Cities said.
 
