PUDUCHERRY: Undeterred by the non-cooperative attitude of the  , Puducherry lt governor   has warned that preventing officers from meeting the administrator/lt governor amounted to interruption in the discharge of her duties.

 Bedi, in a twitter post on February 20, outlined the financial powers and responsibilities of the lt governor of the Union territory of Puducherry. Her outburst comes after the   ministry headed by chief minister   is believed to have lodged a complaint with the President of India on her style of administration. 
 
 On earlier occasions, Narayanasamy had warned territorial officials against taking orders from the lt governor through social media networks. The elected ministry even went to the extent of directing territorial officials and representatives of various associations, including traders, not to attend the meetings convened by the lt governor.
 
 Bedi, however defended her actions arguing that holding of regular meetings with the territorial officials is part of the duties of the lt governor and cannot be termed as ‘interference’ with the functioning of the government. “Minister in-charge of a department shall be primarily responsible for the disposal of business pertaining to that department. This, however, does not take away the powers of the administrator/lt governor nor does it mitigate their financial responsibilities,” she said in the post. 
 
 Pointing out that the lt governor does not enjoy ‘constitutional immunity’ under Article 361, which only the President and governors of states do, Bedi said the lt governor will be responsible for the correctness, regularity and propriety of the decisions taken by the gazetted officers appointed by her.
 
 “The Union home ministry has delegated financial powers to the lt governor to the tune of Rs 50 crore for appraisal and approval of plan schemes / projects. The said financial powers should be appraised by Union territory’s standing finance committee chaired by the chief secretary and approved by the lt governor in consultation with the finance secretary,” she said.
 
 Outlining her role, responsibility and duty in detail, Bedi said the Union government has delegated powers to the lt governor to sanction expenditure on schemes and on projects, grants in-aid, including scholarships and loans. “Such powers cannot be re-delegated to any subordinate authority by the administrator,” she said.
 
 The council of ministers has been levelling charges against Bedi accusing her of convening meetings with the territorial officials and directing them to execute schemes and projects without the knowledge of the ministers concerned or the MLAs. Bedi has been also issuing orders to the officials through the WhatsApp groups created by Raj Nivas. Narayanasamy issued an order directing officials to desist from using social media network. Bedi reacted strongly and cancelled the chief minister’s order. 
 
