INDORE: Focusing on multiplying  ,   is planning to rope in sector wise industries for hand-on experience and industrial training for all the  . 

 DAVV that had been getting only a handful of students placed is now planning to increase the number of students getting campus placements from the beginning of this year. 
 
 Calling short term courses and industrial trainings need of the hour, DAVV, vice chancellor,   on Wednesday said “There is a need to change our courses or enhance it by adding short term trainings and specialised courses to prepare the students better for campus placements. Thus starting off with Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET), we will be holding trainings and specialised industry and institute meets for students to know the requirement of top corporate houses and industries, while recruiting students.”
 
 “UGC is helping us out in providing training sessions for students giving us financial aids for the same,” he added. 
 
 However, to proceed further on this plan, the university has appointed teacher and student coordinators who will work on industry specific meets and trainings in various teaching departments. 
 
 “Prior to this many time various big brands came with a target of recruiting 100 students, but went back with only 6 students, which is disappointing and show that we need to improve our students and teachers to make them perfect for campus placements,” added Dhakad. 
 
 The university is also planning industrial training for students every year with collaboration of industry experts to get over 10,000 students from DAVV placed in different sectors till next year. 
 
 “I think students are not well trained according to the industry standards as when students are given projects and assignments, they take the shortcut and copy it from others without understanding the importance of project, which lead to lack of practical approach in them,” said Dhakad talking to TOI.
 
 Now when students will hear and discuss with the industry experts they will understand the importance of skill developments and training, thus placements for students is our main focus right now, he added. 
 
