NAGPUR: Congress’s factionalism may take a toll on the party as several workers have rebelled on being denied a ticket and are in the fray either as independents or on  . Some have formed panels while others are contesting solo.

 Sitting Congress corporator Abha Pande has formed a strong panel from Ward 21. She had developed differences with Congress leadership and sought ticket from BJP. When refused from there too, she formed a panel of four and jumped into fray as an independent. Other members of her panel are independent corporator Ravindra Dolas, sitting BJP corporator Sulochana Kowe and ex-corporator Vilas Parate.
 
 Independent corporator Kishor Dorle had joined Congress a few weeks ago. He had sought tickets for his three supporters but when Congress leadership refused, he too decided to form a panel and contest as independent. The other members are Minakshi Thakre, Ganesh Masram and Ranjana Gondane. Subhash Khode has also formed a panel of four from Ward 29 and is contesting with the aim of defeating Congress candidates.
 
 Three Congress workers including sitting corporator Deva Usre, Kusum Ghate, Philip Jaiswal and Mamta Gedam had sought tickets from NCP. Usre withdrew while the other three are in the fray as NCP supported candidates.
 
 NCP has given tickets to several   including Lalita Sahu (Ward 4), Ibrahim Chudiwale (Ward 27), Saraswati Verma (Ward 24), Chanda Belekar (Ward 26), Mrunali Margade (Ward 26), Mumtaz Ansari (Ward 30), Suman Agne (Ward 31), Vilas Thakre (Ward 32), Kavita Hingankar (Ward 33), Nanda Zodape (Ward 35) and Shakuntala Chaudhari (Ward 38).
 
 Two NCP supported candidates Dilip Kalbande and Shankar Dorkhande are in the fray from Ward 36. Even city Congress president Vikas Thakre is not unaffected by rebellion. Congress activist Rupesh Pannase is contesting against him from Ward 37 on NCP ticket.
 
 There are several Congress workers contesting as independents without forming a panel. One of them is sitting corporator Dipak Kapse (Ward 30).
 
 Sitting corporator Kumudini Kaikade and her husband Shrikant are contesting from Ward 25. Kalpana Goswami had been given a B form from Ward 4 but when Satyashila Kale got the party symbol, she decided not to withdraw. A large number of rebels are in the fray from all seats of Wards 8, 18, 19 and 20. 
 
 While most BJP rebels have jumped into the fray on   ticket, one Congress activist Kusum Bawankar has joined them and is contesting from Ward 27.
 
 Ward 9 is witnessing a curious fight. Congress activist Kishor Jichkar has the Congress symbol but the other three candidates have ganged up against him and are distributing pamphlets appealing to the voters to exercise their franchise in favour of Vineel Chaurasia. Both Jichkar and Chaurasia had got B forms but Jichkar filed nomination first and got the hand symbol.
 
