JAIPUR: Rajasthan   has issued notice to the state education minister   and chief secretary for using the prefix Professor with his name.

 The single bench of Justice MN Bhandari issued notices on a petition by   from Ajmer, the home district of the minister. The petitioner said Devnani has never been a professor nor having the qualification for the using professor with his name.
 
 Devani is simply an engineering graduate who was teaching in a private polytechnic in Udaipur. Those who were teaching in polytechnics were not eligible for using professor with his name. 
 
 The petitioner said the minister is using prof with his name in all the official correspondence and even on the plaque unveiled in the functions attended by the minister.
 
 The petitioner prayed for restraining the minister from using Prof with his name and also deleting from official portal and the plaques unveiled by the minister till now. The petitioner said he approached the court after eliciting no response form the Lakayukta and the state government. The notices were returnable within four weeks.
 
 Remove illegal construction at C-Scheme: HC 
 
 Jaipur: Rajasthan High court on Friday directed directed JDA to remove illegal constructions and encroachment in C-Scheme area till May 10. The court also ordered to stop commercial and other activities which are not permissible under law in residential premises.
 
 The single bench of Justice M N Bhandari order was passed while disposing writ petition filed by C-Scheme Vikas Samiti.
 
 A K Jain counsel petitioner said that C-Scheme was planned before independence by   in the year 1946. C-scheme is a prime and prestigious residential colony and most part of the scheme is fully residential and no commercial activities are permissible in the area. 
 
 But without any legal authority, number of commercial establishments and shops have erupted and further life of peoples reside in this area become hell and as its road has been blocked and lot of nuisance has been created. The situation is that even on the footpath, shops are running which endangered life as well as security of the peoples.
 
 High security number plates 
 
 Jaipur: Rajasthan High court has directed the   department to implement the direction to switch over to high security number plates on all the vehicles registered before July 15 2012.
 
 The court said if the Transport department fails to comply with the order it asked the Transport commissioner to be personally present in the court on next hearing on April 17.
 
 The division bench of justice K S Jhaveri and V K Vyas issued the order during the hearing of a PIL by Maninder Singh Bitta.
 
 Anuroop Singhi, the counsel for the petitioner, said though the transport department had issued an order in this regard on Jan 8 2016 it had not enforced the same due to the controversy over the contract given to a private company. The court asked the department present the plan of action by the next hearing.
 
