COIMBATORE: City to be declared Open Defecation Free (ODF) on January 12 by the  . As per the corporation officials, three teams conducted inspections across the city for five days until Monday.

 Three teams from the quality council of India under the Swachh Bharat mission conducted a two-day inspection in the city to check if the residents had access to toilets in their households and their locality.
 
 The teams visited major areas in the city such as a slum, school, public areas like market, religious places, bus stands and railway stations. 
 
 "The members of the team were also not aware of the exact locations. Half an hour before the inspection, they received location links of the places they were to inspect by the  . 
 
 The team visited the locations with their cameras on, recording the locations to ensure it was done authentically. They visited several places and also took feedback from the public," said a senior corporation officer.
 
 As per the ministry of urban development website, a city is declared open defecation free if - "At any point of the day, not a single person is found to be defecating in the open. 
 
 As per the protocol laid down by Ministry of Urban Development for third party verification and certification of ODF status, each ward and city should first self-declare itself as ODF and on intimation of the same by the respective urban local body or state. 
 
 The ministry gets such claims verified through a third party." For each zone in a city or town, a minimum of five places are inspected for ODF status.
 
 The civic body had renovated 290 community toilets and had constructed more than   in the past one year. They had started penalising people who were defecating in the open as well.
 
 This status will be valid only for six months as the members of the Quality council will conduct random checks again after six months. 
 
 If they find that the criterions are not fulfilled, the status would be revoked. The members were satisfied with their findings and have also informed officials that Coimbatore would be declared as open defecation free. "On January 12, the Quality Council of India will officially come and visit the city and declare it ODF city," said a corporation officer.
 
 City corporation commissioner,   said that they will work hard to ensure the city continues to be ODF and they will create awareness among the people to make it a habit to use toilets. "Steps would be taken to create awareness and ensure that sanitation becomes a priority for the people," he said.
 
