 Aishwarya Rajesh is making her   debut with Arjun Rampal-starrer ' ' and she says she couldn't have asked for a better project to launch herself in the Hindi film industry. 

 "Daddy' is an amazing Bollywood debut for me. I don't play a typical Bollywood heroine. It's a performance-oriented role.   is one of the best co-stars I've ever worked with. I had an excellent experience sharing screen space with him," Aishwarya said.
 
  
  
 The 27-year-old actress says Rampal made her feel very comfortable during the shoot of the crime drama, which is based on the life of gangster-turned-politician, Arun Gawli. The film has been directed by Ashim Ahluwalia. 
 
 "I was almost like a newborn baby on the set. He is such a humble star and always supported me very well. Even when he used to introduce me to someone, he would say, 'she is an extraordinary performer and a brilliant actress'." 
 
 Aishwarya, who won accolades for her performance in National award-winning drama 'Kaaka Muttai',said she has worked very hard to be recognised as one of the best performers in the Tamil industry. "I had to put in a lot of effort to stand where I'm today. I have built my career brick by brick to reach this level. It was definitely not a cakewalk." 
 
 After sharing screen space with top Malayalam stars Dulquer Salmaan and Nivin Pauly in 'Jomonte Suvisheshangal' and 'Sakhavu', Aishwarya is currently part of two much-awaited Tamil films including Dhanush's gangster drama 'Vada Chennai' directed by Vetrimaaran and Vikram's spy thriller 'Dhruva Natchathiram', helmed by Gautham Menon. 
 
 "Vetrimaaran expects his actors to be spontaneous. Since he mostly prefers shooting in live locations, you have to be prepared for everything when you work with him. I have finished a schedule for the film, and this role is entirely new to me." 
 
 Although Aishwarya was a little nervous at the beginning of the shoot, she managed to pull it off with ease as the shooting progressed. 
 
 "I believe that comfort level is crucial for a performer. Initially, it was a little tough to get into the skin of my character. But, eventually I got into it completely and pulled it off. I have never done a role like this before." 
 
 "I play an out-and-out North Madras girl, who is strong and bold. A lot of people relate me to a proper Chennai girl, and I think that's the reason Vetrimaaran chose me too." Aishwarya says she is sporting a full-fledged commercial heroine look for the first time in 'Dhruva Natchathiram', which she has shot for seven days so far. 
 
 "Gautham Menon is known for writing strong women characters and this film is no exception. Both Ritu Varma and I have equally well-written roles. I can assure that people will see a different   in the movie."
 
  
  
 
