RAJKOT: Bechar Detroja (45), a resident of Bedi Vachhakpar village on the outskirts of Rajkot, died of swine flu in Rajkot civil hospital on Thursday morning, taking the death toll due to H1N1 virus in the city to five since January.

 According to sources, Detroja, was admitted to the civil hospital on Monday after he complained of cough and fever. He was treated as a suspected swine flu patient. His blood sample confirmed swine flu virus on Tuesday. However, Detroja succumbed to the disease on Thursday. Detroja is a farmer and is survived by a son and two daughters.
 
 This was the second death due to swine flu in Rajkot district in last 48 hours many days. On Wednesday morning,   (55), a resident of   city died due to swine flu. 
 
 Before that, on February 27, Chaturben Hinshu (65), a resident of   in Rajkot had died of swine flu. In the first week of February, Kanta Bodar (52), a resident of   in Rajkot, had succumbed to the deadly H1N1 virus.
 
 According to RMC officials, in total, 10 persons have already tested positive in Rajkot since the start of 2017, of which five persons have died. While three deceased were from Rajkot city area, one was from Rajkot rural and one from Amreli but had died in Rajkot civil hospital. In 2016, in total, 21 swine flu cases were reported of which five persons had succumbed to the virus.
 
 Health department officials said that they carried out survey in areas from where swine flu cases were reported and preventive measures were being taken there.
 
 According to Rajkot health department officials, other than two government hospitals, 11 private ones have isolation wards. While the capacity of isolation wards in government hospitals is 64 beds, in private hospitals it is 48. As many as 28 ventilators are operational in the hospitals that have enough stock of necessary medicines. 
 
 On Thursday, a high-level meeting of district health officials was held. The participants were briefed about new guidelines and treatment protocol for swine flu developed by the Union health ministry. These new guidelines were also sent to private medical practitioners.
 
