THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With only two months remaining for the end of the  , the state has been able to utilize only just 40% of the total plan outlay.

 The  ,   and ports department were the worst performers registering expenditure below 20%.
 
 According to the government's monthly plan review report till January 31, of the Rs 22,096.04 crore state plan outlay, the expenditure till date was only Rs 8,804.58 crore.
 
 While departments like  ,   have performed fairly well, the food and civil supplies (7%), home (14%) and ports (14%) departments have put on a dismal show.
 
 While the total state plan outlay for the home department was Rs 123.65 crore, only Rs 17.52 crore was spent. In addition, the centrally-sponsored schemes have allotted another Rs 50 crore for modernisation of the police department, which is yet to be touched.
 Officials said the main reason for the dismal state of spending was "vigilance mania" because of which every file has to be returned back to the lowest level for scrutiny.
 
 "As a result files move all the way from the office section assistant to the secretary-level twice and under the current scenario, the average processing time for files has been two months compared to 15 days ealier," sources said.
 
 Sources added the government's move to introduce the e-file system should have quickened the pace of processes but in reality it has not been the case.
 
 Understanding the gravity of the matter, chief minister himself addressed a meeting of all the secretaries to review the situation in which he made a passing remark about the vigilance but the department heads say there was no assurance from the chief minister that could instil in them the confidence to process the files quickly without becoming paranoid about the vigilance department.
 
 Meanwhile, the performance of local bodies, which is one of the key areas which would benefit the general public directly, has been worse than the overall plan fund expenditure.
 
 The budget had earmarked Rs 5,500 crore as plan outlay for the local self-governments for implementing projects based on local needs for 2016-17. The expenditure up to January 31 for LSGD institutions was only Rs 1248.49 crores which is only 23% of the total outlay.
 
