CHENNAI: Suspended deputy superintendent of police Kader Batcha -on the run for more than two months after being named as accused in the theft of three panchaloha idols in 2008 -has been finally nabbed. A team led by inspector general of police, idol wing CID, A G Pon Manickavel, picked him up from a hideout in Kumbakonam on Wednesday , based on a specific tip.

 “He has been booked on charges of armed robbery , illegal investigation and also under the relevant sections of the Arms Act. He was produced before the additional chief judicial magistrate's court in Kumbakonam and remanded in judicial custody . We are planning to take him into our custody soon and interrogate him,“ said a senior idol wing officer. N Subburaj, a special subinspector with the Koyambedu police and Batcha's partner in the theft of the idols of Siva and Parvati, was arrested on June 27 after the Madras high court pulled up the idol wing CID for not initiating the apprehension of the police personnel involved in the theft. Immediately after Subburaj's arrest, Batcha, who was then   in the   (CCB) in Tiruvallur district, went absconding. The same week, Pon Manickavel, who was heading the idol wing, was trans ferred and posted to the railways.
 
 In May 2008, Batcha, an inspector in the idol wing, and Subburaj, a constable, went to Madurai under the pretext of investigating a case and robbed three idols from two people, including a trader, after assaulting and threatening them at gunpoint.
 
 The two then brought the idols to Chennai, but did not register a case. Instead, they sold the idols to G Dheenadayalan, a Chennai-based art dealer involved in smuggling of antiques. An FIR in the case was registered only early this year when idol wing head Pon Manickavel came to know about the involvement of the policemen who earlier worked in the unit.
 
 Last month, the high court had asked the state government to hand over all idol wing cases to Pon Manickavel to investigate. R Tamil Chandran, who was heading the idol wing CID then, was then transferred recently and Pon Manickavel made `full additional in-charge' on September 8.
 
