Delhi might have more public art, but Gurgaon has more public participation. The art groups which are constantly changing the landscape of the capital, face two major challenges – that Delhi doesn't volunteer and the authorities don't give permission. So when there was a discussion organised on Delhi's street art at the British Education Centre, Gurgaon, it was obvious that parallels would be drawn between the two neighbouring cities.

  
 As part of the Chevening Art Event, there was a discussion on visual art called Restoring Public Spaces in Delhi Through Street Art – A Look at the Movement in Delhi, which had artists from Delhi and Gurgaon as participants. The members said that while Gurgaon has a community culture, they don't see it happening in Delhi. Nakul Butta, founder of New Delhi Rising, a group of volunteers who clean the city, said, "Delhi just doesn't volunteer. We did 'spot-fixing' at 20 locations and we faced issues because people weren’t willing to help. Gurgaon, however, is entirely different."
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  Talking about the permission process in the capital, he said, "The process is lengthy, so we don't take permissions. But when the deputy CM or senior police officers spot us cleaning the walls, they appreciate it."
 
 
  The participants said that the purpose of street art is to cover the damaged area and beautify it. Nakul said, "Our purpose is to take out art from galleries to the public space. In the last one year, I have consumed more art on walls than in galleries."
 
 
 
 
  
  Pratisha Laskar (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 
 The artists often prefer to be anonymous. Those who have been to Govindpuri Metro Station could not miss the art on public conveniences, but nobody knows who installed it. Ashwini Aggarwal from 'Basic Shit', who is anonymously doing these projects, said, "Working in a public space is not easy. You install something at night, and it's stolen by morning. So we use material with no resale value. In Delhi, getting permission to use public space is also an issue. If you want to use public space, you need a challan from MCD. All the vendors have a challan, so we realised that it’s a loophole in the system that you can just have a challan and use the public space as you like it. Now, wherever we need to use public space we get just get the challan."
 
  An exhibition of multimedia artworks was also organised on the sidelines of the event.  , IPS officer, who curated the event, told us, "Through this event, we wanted to give a platform to the budding artists and bring them together."
 
 
  
  Sapna Poti
 
 
 
 
