LUCKNOW: The Special Task Force (STF) of UP Police arrested Khan Mubarak, a listed   of the   gang, on Saturday. Younger brother of Mumbai gangster Zafar Supari, Mubarak was arrested from Ansal City area of the city following a specific tip-off. A resident of Ambedkarnagar, Mubarak was wanted in connection with a case under Gangster Act. As many as 15 firearms and 56 live cartridges of various bores were recovered from his possession.

 Mubarak, who has 22 cases including of murder, extortion and robbery pending against him, had made headlines in 2015 after a video that went viral showed him torturing businessman Ejaz Mirza, lashing him with a hunter and ordering one of his goons to place a bottle on his head and shoot it with a handgun. Later, while Mubarak was arrested in connection with an assault case, Mirza died of injuries at the hospital. “He was disrespectful to me without any provocation and had to be taught a lesson,” Mubarak told TOI, referring to the contents of the video.
 
 With a Masters degree in English from   in 2006, Mubarak was allegedly involved in recruiting fresh manpower from various parts of Uttar Pradesh to execute acts of crimes in the state at the instance of Chhota Rajan. Investigators were now grilling him to extract details of his involvement in such incidents. Mubarak was in touch with jailed mafia don and Mumbai blast perpetrator Abu Salem. He reportedly visited Salem during the latter’s court hearings in Mumbai and Bhopal. Investigators were now trying to ascertain his connection with terror outfits.
 
 Giving details of the police operation, DIG STF Manoj Tewari said Mubarak was in the state capital targeting a businessman when he was arrested. “On a tip-off, we intercepted him near Ansal city. When we asked him to surrender, he opened fire at the police team but we managed to capture him,” Tewari said.
 
 Mubarak stepped into the world of crime in 2006 after his role in a murder in Mumbai. Thereafter, his brother Zafar Supari introduced him to Chhota Rajan. Initially, he was entrusted with the job of collecting extortion money from various Allahabad-based doctors who were on Chhota Rajan’s hit list. 
 
 He was arrested for the first time in 2007. “His robbery attempt at an Allahabad post office was foiled by a guard who opened fire and when Mubarak shot back and escaped, the guard lodged a report of robbery and murder attempts against him in 2007,” said STF DIG, adding that he was also involved in the murder of Osama Khan in Allahabad in 2012. The murder was executed at the instance of Chhota Rajan who believed that Osama had sided with the police in the Kala Ghoda, Mumbai shootout in 2006.
 
 Thereafter, Mubarak’s name figured in the murder of property dealer Mohan Yadav in Ambedkarnagar in 2014. The next year, Mubarak allegedly murdered Jugran Mehndi, a criminal who tried to challenge his hold in the area. In 2016, he got his shooter Sheru Alam eliminated, on suspicion that he was passing on information to his rivals, said STF officials.
 
