ISLAMABAD: Following the hearing of the inquiry report related to the graft case against PM   and his family, the   supreme court on Friday reserved its judgment, leaving the nation divided with the PM’s supporters predicting he might escape disqualification from office, while his opponents are hoping that the verdict will end his political career.

 A date for the judgment has yet to be announced.
 
 A three-member special SC bench headed by justice Ejaz Afzal Khan was hearing the case regarding the Sharif family’s offshore assets and companies revealed last year by the Panama Papers leak. A six-member joint investigation team (JIT) tasked by the SC to probe corruption and money laundering charges against the Sharif family had submitted its investigation report in court on July 10. The investigators have found the Sharif family guilty of perjury, tampering documents and concealing their sources of income. Sharif family had filed petition against JIT’s findings calling the investigation report biased, unreliable and misleading.
 
 When counsels of both sides concluded their arguments, the bench observed that it would not deviate from any law while delivering its judgment. “We are conscious of the fundamental rights of petitioners and respondents,” said justice Ijazul Ahsan.
 
 The bench also observed that it is possible some mistakes were made by the JIT but the overall work of the investigators was beyond all expectations.
 
 “We will have to see how much of the JIT’s work is implementable,” remarked justice Afzal. Justice Sheikh Azmat Saeed, another member of the bench, said that the court would review the matter of the PM’s disqualification. The case stems from documents leaked from the Panama-based Mossack Fonseca law firm, showing that Sharif, his daughter Maryum Nawaz, and his two sons owned offshore companies registered in British Virgin Islands and used them to buy properties in London. Several offshore companies were found to have links to the Sharif family in the leaked documents.
 
 The SC had taken up a case to investigate Sharif and his family’s offshore wealth last year and had formed a JIT in April to probe Sharif ’s offshore-undisclosed wealth.
 
