PUNE: The Hadapsar police on Saturday dropped the controversial non-bailable culpable   under Section 304 (II) of IPC against three doctors and a nurse and filed a chargesheet invoking the charge of causing death due to negligence under Section 304A of IPC -a bailable offence.
A magisterial court later released the doctors and the nurse on bail.
 
 The three doctors and the nurse were arrested on January 4 for their alleged negligence leading to the death of a woman at Hadapsar maternity home, in August last year.Police had affected the arrests based on their conclusion on the observation of the govern ment's expert committee at the   here and the legal opinion given by their prosecutor.
 
 The husband of the deceased is planning to challenge the change in charges against the doctors and the nurse.
 
 Assistant inspector Santosh Tasgaonkar on Saturday filed the chargesheet in the court of first class judicial magistrate Y P Pujari through assistant public prosecutor (APP) Kiran Bendhbar. Another doctor and nurse were named as absconding suspects in it.
 
 The court granted permission to police to continue with further investigations to file supplementary chargesheet against the suspects on run under Section 173(8) of the CrPC.
 
 The three arrested doctors and the nurse were produced before the court following the expiry of their three-day police custody remand around 4.20pm on Saturday .
 
 Police filed a remand plea, informing the court that it had dropped the charges under Section 304 (II) of IPC and invoked charges under Section 304A of IPC against the accused. Since police did not seek extension of their police custody remand, the court remanded them in magisterial custody . The developments prompted lawyers Harshad Nimbalkar and others to file pleas to release their clients on bail.
 
 Before hearing the bail pleas, the court sought explanation from the investigating officer on dropping the charge of culpable homicide. The court also directed the prosecution, police and complainant Kadam to file their views on the bail pleas.
 
 Assistant inspector Tasgaonkar replied Section 304 (II) of IPC was invoked after receiving the expert committee's opinion from the Sassoon hospital and seeking legal opinion. The charge was dropped and Section 304(A) of IPC was invoked after investigations revealed that the doctors and the nurse were responsible for the negligence, but did not have the intention to cause the patient's death. On the bail pleas, lawyers Nimbalkar, Satyam Nimbalkar and Rishi Ghorpade submitted that since their clients had been charged for a bailable offence they should be released on bail.
 
 APP Bendhbar opposed the bail pleas on the grounds that the four were involved in a serious offence. She feared that the accused might threaten the prosecution witnesses and tamper with evidence if released on bail. They might go absconding, making it difficult for the prosecution to seek their presence before the court for trial, she argued.
 
 Complainant Kadam also opposed the bail plea fearing that the accused might threaten his family members if they were released. He pleaded to impose stringent conditions if the court came to the conclusion that they should be released on bail.
 
 After hearing all the parties, the court granted bail to the accused. The doctors and the nurse were released on furnishing personal and surety bonds of Rs 50,000 each.
 
