MANALI: Floods and debris have struck Dhundi area, where 8.8km-long Rohtang tunnel is being built but the traffic on the approach road to tunnel is continuing underneath the flooded rivulet thanks to   control structure which has capability to withstand any natural calamity.

 Out of total 13 such structures, an avalanche control structure designed by snow and avalanche study establishment (SASE), a wing of Defence Research and Development Organization ( ), is ready between Solang and Dhundi and is successfully executing its job. 12 more such structures will be made very soon. The approach road to tunnel has 13 major avalanche prone zones which are threat to the traffic. Frequent cloudbursts, floods and landslides are other challenges in the area.
 
 Initially, the structures were designed to protect roads from avalanches. The galleries are now also protecting the roads from floods, debris and huge boulders. The structure is in the shape of gallery with a tough concrete roof and walls. It is designed in such a manner that avalanche or floods pass over the roof and traffic continues under the gallery.
 
 An engineer working on Rohtang tunnel project said 13 structures will be built in south portal of the tunnel in Kullu while 5 will be built in north portal in Lahaul valley. “The structures are tough with unique design. The avalanches in the area are main threat. The region experiences over a hundred avalanches every winter. Colonel Nilesh M Chandran has joined the project as the new chief engineer. We are planning new strategies to speed up the work to meet the deadline of 2019 to open this road and tunnel for general traffic,” he said.
 
 Dhundi area is notorious for cloudbursts, floods and avalanches. This region has many rivulets which floods during monsoon. Many labourers have lost their lives during construction of the approach road. The rivulets these days are flooded and one of them is passing over the structure without any worry to the traffic underneath. Such design has been developed and practically used for the first time in the country.
 
 
