PILIBHIT: Environmentalists familiar with   tehsil in Pilibhit have urged the forest department and social forestry officials to pull up their socks and locate and tranquillise a tiger or tigers in the area. On February 8, tiger pug marks were detected in this densely populated agricultural area, which is 18 km from the nearest   range of   triggering fears of an attack in the area.
 
  According to official records of forest department, way back in 2012, the presence of a tigress with three cubs was reported in the Deuni dam area of Amaria block. Since then, two tigers have been repeatedly spotted in the area.
  
  Secretary of Save Environment society TH Khan said two tigers have made their home amid dense shrubs and reeds stretches along rivers Kailash and Devha in the Deuni dam area. He feared that the tigers’ permanent presence in a human area was highly risky for both man and the big cats.
  
  A farmer of Bela Pukhra village ,   on whose farm the pug marks of a tiger were spotted said that the presence of tigers had remarkably reduced crop damage caused by neelgai and wild boars in the area. These are the main prey of tigers.
  
  However, the risk to man cannot be discounted. As gram pradhan of Baharua Colony Shankar Mandal said villagers risk their lives every time they go to the fields to work. He alleged that the forest officials were only concerned about protecting tigers and not human lives. The villagers would breathe easy after the tigers were trapped and shifted to the forest, he said.
  
  According to the WWF officials, the tigers in Amaria area have so far mauled two villagers.  , 50, was attacked by a tiger at Surajpur village on April 25, 2014 while 22-year-old Vishwajeet was mauled on August 9, last year at Bisahanpur village while working in the sugarcane fields. On November 24, two domestic cows were killed at Sadia village.
  
  It was only after this incident that eight camera traps were installed in Deuni dam area, which captured pictures of two tigers.
  
  Regional coordinator of WWF (India) Mudit Gupta said the shifting the tigers to PTR was not a permanent solution as they were likely to stray back to the village areas. “Rather, the villagers should be trained on protective strategies against tiger mauling and they need to be always watchful of tigers’ movement in fields,” he said. He said that until the big cats had plenty of prey in Amaria area, they would not attack humans.
  
  Conservator of Bareilly circle VK Singh, said that although locating and tranquillizing the stray tigers would not be an easy task, he would send a proposal over the shifting of Amaria tigers to PTR to higher authorities. He said he would hold a meeting with PTR officials over the issue on Saturday at Mustafabad forest guest house in PTR .
