IMPHAL: The   is of the view that the ongoing economic blockade imposed by   in Manipur, which looked set to upset the coming assembly election, will not make any impact on the poll process.

 EC’s high level of confidence emanates from the fact that the protesting Naga groups and not even the state’s numerous militant groups, have called for a boycott of the election to the 60 assembly seats, which will be held in two phases on March 4 and 8. The commission, however, does not want to be overconfident and has in place a contingency plan.
 
 The Naga groups under the United Naga Council, who are protesting against the creation of new districts by the   Singh government without consulting them, laid siege of the two National Highways, 2 and 37, which serve as the lifelines to the state, from November 1 last. The two highways traverse through Naga-dominated hills to reach the Meitei-dominated Imphal valley. The biggest impact of the blockade has been on movement of people due to acute shortage of fuel, which has triggered rise in its prices. The blockade entered 107th day on Wednesday and there are no signs of any respite.
 
 The Hindu and Muslim Meiteis constitute about 62 per cent of the state’s population and are concentrated in the valley while the tribal inhabitants of the hills, Nagas account for 20 per cent and the Kukis about 15 per cent.
 
 The full team of EC on Tuesday reviewed the situation via video conference with the state chief electoral officer, police chief, chief secretary, additional chief secretary, home and officials of Indian Oil Corporation. “We are right on track and the EC is satisfied that the economic blockade will not affect the poll process,” state chief electoral officer Vivek Kumar Dewangan told TOI.
 
 The commission views the UNC-sponsored blockade over the creation of new districts by the state government as a political issue which has got nothing against the conducting of the electoral process.
 
 Contrary to initial fears that the commission may be the first one to face resistance from the protestors in the Naga-inhabited areas while setting the election process rolling, the present response has been more than encouraging.
 
 The state CEO said, “People are coming in big numbers to participate in the whole process. There has been more than 80% turnout of people for the training for polling duty as polling officials. We have a contingency plan ready.”
 
 The commission has stockpiled enough fuel to drive through the entire election process and adequate quantities have been allocated to the various arms of the election machinery. For the general people, the CEO said, IOC has made arrangement for transporting fuel in security convoy from Jiribam near the border with southern Assam.
 
 Out on the streets of the state capital, Imphal, surrounded by the hills inhabited Naga and Kuki tribal, the election fever is yet to catch up. For many, the February 25 rally at the historic Kangla Fort to be addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who the BJP has made the face of the party here in absence of any chief ministerial candidate, will be the pacesetter for a bitter and grueling fight between the BJP and the Congress, which has been ruling the state for last 15 years.
 
