 is insulted by   (Kishwer Merchant) who makes fun of her being fat and she says that a fat person like her can never achieve any success in life.
 
  Deepika cries and leaves from the ram leela but she promises to fight back if she is allowed to perform on the stage.
  
  
 
  
 
  
  Then the organisers come running towards her about a problem that he is facing. First she refuses but then decides to help.
  
    is excited about Hanuman and goes looking for lota. While he is searching for the lota, the pitcher falls on actor who will play Ram and he faints. There is more trouble for the ram leela as nothing is going right for them.
  
    is seen fighting with his scooter and this is when Lalu calls up Piyush to replace Ram and perform.
  
  Mansi Joshi Roy, who plays Piyush's mother, asks him about what he is doing. He tells her about working as Ram in ram leela play.
  
  Piyush is scolded by his father for not working but only concentrates on his eating. He sneaks out of the house and rushes to the ram leela ground.
  
  The organiser is schocked at seeing a fat Piyush playing the role of Ram.
  
  Everyone is pleasantly surprised at seeing Deepika in the get up of Hanuman.
  
  Shilpa says this role suits Deepika the most as a fat person like her is apt for this. But Deepika says her role will be the best and get the most applauses.
  
  Deepika's parents are at the ground to watch Ram Leela but are shocked when instead of their daughter they find Sarika playing the role of Sita.
  
  Deepika's father is shocked but then boosts his daughter for playing Hanuman. The marriage bureau organiser is shocked that Deepika is playing the role of Hanuman. Her mother gets angry after knowing that her daughter is playing Hanuman and pulls her daughter down from the stage, which leads to commotion. People are left in splits and the organiser pulls the curtains down.
  
  Shilpa again insults Deepika in front of everyone and organisers also shout at her for spoiling the entire stage show.
  
  Deepika then apologises to Piyush for hitting him.
