PATNA: Only one-way vehicular movement will be allowed between pillars 1 and 12 on the Mahatma   from Hajipur-end from next week as span number 8 of the bridge is in dilapidated condition.

 Also, the state government is likely to give its nod for dismantling the superstructure of the Setu after June 10 as part of the plan for rehabilitation of the bridge.
 
 Deputy CM and road construction minister Tejashwi Yadav has announced that the road decks of Digha-Sonepur rail-cum-road bridge and Ara-Chhapra bridge will be inaugurated on June 11 on the birthday of his father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad. 
 
 The decision to allow only one-way traffic from pillars 1 to 12 on the Setu was taken at a meeting presided over by chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh on Friday. 
 
 Informing TOI about the decision, Patna SP (traffic) P K Das said, “Span number- 8 is in poor shape and unfit for vehicular movement. Therefore, the chief secretary has asked us to stop traffic on that stretch. We had asked for additional force, and deployment started from today. We intend to commence one- way vehicular movement along the damaged stretch of 1.5km from the Hajipur-end within 2-3 days.”
 
 Sources in the road construction department said the concrete structure of span number 8, including the connecting metallic wires, is badly damaged and movement of heavy vehicles like trucks on it can be risky. 
 
 Das said a final go-ahead for phase-wise dismantling of the superstructure of the bridge would be given by the chief secretary. The existing superstructure of Gandhi Setu is proposed to be completely demolished and triangular steel- girders, as seen in rail- cum- road bridges like Rajendra Setu or Koelwar rail bridge, will be erected in its place.
 
 The repair work will be undertaken in two phases: the upstream (Patna- Hajipur) and downstream (Hajipur-Patna side). The upstream of the bridge will be completely demolished first and vehicles from both sides allowed to move only on the downstream side. Upon completion of repair on the upstream, the downstream (Hajipur-Patna) will be repaired in a similar manner.
 
 The upstream flank of the bridge is comparatively more dilapidated and repair work is already underway on this flank between the 43rd and 46th pillars the bridge. The need of repairing the bridge was first felt in 1991. A sum of around Rs 200 crore has already been spent on the maintenance of the bridge since 2004.
 
 The rehabilitation project is targeted to be completed in 42 months, utilising an estimated outlay of Rs 1,742.01 crore. Vehicles can run at a speed of 100kmph on the 5.575km bridge once it is completely rehabilitated, said the sources.
 
 
