SHIMLA: Finally, the tourist town of Shimla got its first ropeway as chief minister   inaugurated the Rs 40-crore Jakhu ropeway project on Monday. Now one can reach the Jakhu temple from the Ridge in around five minutes. 

 Till now, one had to either walk up a steep climb of about 40 minutes to an hour to reach the temple from the Ridge or take a taxi ride. While one side fare of the ropeway for adults has been fixed at Rs 300, the charge would be Rs 550 for a round trip. The fare for children would be Rs 250 for one side and Rs 450 for both sides. 
 
 In July 2007, Virbhadra had laid the foundation stone of this project which has now been completed at a cost of Rs 40 crore. It took 10 years for the project to complete as it got mired in mutliple issues, including certain environmental reasons and forest clearances. Speaking at the inaugural function, Virbhadra said it was his dream project and just one of its kind in the state that would boost the tourism industry.
 
 Constructed by  , the project would facilitate visitors a smooth ride to the famous Hanuman temple at Jakhu. Built on public private partnership model, the company will give Rs 57 lakh as dividend via tourism department to the government in its first year and 15% of the collection money every year thereafter .
 
 Ropeway project had in the past courted controversy after the state government found some violations in the construction and decided to impose penalty on the company. Citing violation of environment norm, previous BJP government had directed the company to stop construction work and take remedial measures to check threats to ecology and houses. 
 
 Later, Himachal Pradesh high court had ordered the state government to set-up an inter-departmental committee to re-examine structural stability of the complex and the company was asked to get a study done by experts from  .
 
 In December, an empty cable car fell on a house while three other cable cars remained hanging right above the roof during the alignment testing of the ropeway. The weight of one cable car is around 500km and has the load carrying capacity of around 480kg or six persons. All these cabins and ropes were imported from Switzerland and one cable car costs around Rs 15 lakh, sources said.
 
