The Indian Gramin   League opening ceremony organised at the   on Sunday afternoon was a glamorous affair. The event had popular   and TV actors  , Meghna Malik,  , Lavina Tandon, Vaishali Thakkar and Gizele Thakral participating in it. 

  
    and Arti Singh
 
 
 Organised by localite Dr  , the event turned out to be slightly disappointing for the audience, which was expecting the actors to play a game of cricket there. The event started a bit late, even as the excited crowd waited in the intense heat. People at the stadium were heard saying that the heat and the crowd pestering them for selfies had made the actors leave the venue early and not play the game. "Yahan itni zyada garmi thi aur logon ne actors ko itna pareshan kiya selfies ke liye ki shayad isilye unhone nahi khela," said a spectator at the stadium on condition of anonymity, adding, "All the actors posed for selfies but one could see that they were feeling hassled after some time because of the heat and the crowd."
 
  
  Neetu Chandra surrounded by people
 
 
 But the actors themselves were very enthused about the whole event. While they did say that they weren’t aware that they were supposed to play a match with the participants, they also said they were happy such competitions were being organised to promote local rural talent. 
 Actor Arti Singh, a Lucknowite, seen in shows like Devon Ke Dev...Mahadev and Waaris, who's been a district level cricket player, was very enthused about the event and said that it was undoubtedly very hot and that such a huge crowd was expected at an event like this. "This huge a crowd was expected at an event like this. And it's better not to play at such an event because I had no clue about the management and because of such a huge crowd, field pe kuchh bhi ho sakta tha. But on the whole I was excited seeing this kind of competition being organised in Lucknow. This is a very good platform to promote sporting talent from the rural areas."
 
 
  
  Gizele Thakral obliging fans with selfies
 
 
 
 Meghna Malik, popularly known as Ammaji from the serial Na Aana Iss Desh Laado also said, "I was just there for the sake of enjoyment and to encourage the players. I wasn''t told to play at the event and that's why I didn’t. It was so hot but I was surprised to see such a huge turnout."
 Actor Lavina Tandon of Waaris fame said she had come just to cheer for the players. "I wasn’t told that I would be required to go onto the field and play. I was there to just cheer for the players. But I'm glad I could come for the event," said the actor who was spotted posing for selfies and giving autographs to eager fans. 
 Lending support to her husband was singer-composer Anupama Raag. The bureaucrat was seen giving company to the actors who obliged the over-enthused crowd with selfies. 
 
  
  Lavina and Vaishali
 
 
  
  The crowd at the stadium
 
 
 The first to arrive at the stadium was Arti Sing followed by Lavina Tandon and Vaishali. Actor Neetu Chandra and Gizele Thakral made a la Bollywood style late entry amid a huge round of applause and cheers from the gathered crowd. 
 "I am a sportsperson and I love taekwondo and basket ball ," said Neetu, adding, "There is no dearth of talent in our rural areas, they just need a platform to showcase their talent and they will be successful." The same sentiments were shared by the other actors too who also encouraged the players. 
 
 By Adnaan Rizvi
 
