JAIPUR: In gross violation of   (SC) rulings, private schools in the state are asking for   card of children and sometime even of parents while admitting them in schools. 

 The SC has repeatedly ordered that Aadhaar card cannot be made mandatory for any service. Neither the state government nor the CBSE have asked them for taking Aadhaar numbers from students. 
 
 TOI spoke to the public relations officer of CBSE in Delhi Rama Sharma who said that CBSE has asked schools to encourage the use of Aadhaar number but has never asked them to make it compulsory. 
 
 Similarly, the spokesperson of state education department denied any such direction given to schools. 
 
 Experts fear that information in Aadhaar card can be misused. Other than Aadhaar details, some schools are asking for bank details of a child. TOI called up some schools but they refused to say anything.
 
 However, some have reasoned that CBSE directions are behind the move. while others have said that Aadhaar details are being done for transparency. The education department has refused to interfere in the matter citing that any interference is tantamount to infringement in the autonomy of private schools.
 
 The whole exercise is causing problem for parents as many of the parents are smelling rat. It is also forced the parents to rush from the pillar to the post to get the Aadhaar card done. “I fail to understand why they are asking for information which most of it already have been submitted by us in the admission form. They have asked for the Aadhaar giving us no choice. I am planning to go for the card in coming days,” said  , a parent who was asked to submit Aadhaar by a school in  . 
 
 Not all parents are meeting the demand of schools blindly. In fact, in some cases parents have challenged the schools and were given the relaxation by the schools. “I showed them two Supreme Court and three High Court orders categorically stating that Aadhaar card is not required. They graciously excused me from submitting the Aadhaar card," said  , a parent, who explained the reason behind his stand. He said, “My simple observation was that if court has not made it mandatory, why schools are imposing it on parents.” 
 
