NASHIK:The district has good investment potential and is emerging as an industrial hub after the cities of Mumbai and Pune have crossed the saturation limit, said  , regional officer (Nashik) of the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). 

 In an interview with the TOI ahead of the 'Make in Nashik' event - being held on May 30 and 31 in Mumbai - Patil said the MIDC is projecting the new Dindori industrial estate, spread across 500 acres, the Vinchur Wine Park for new food processing industries, and Sinnar, Malegaon and Yeola as investment zones for new large industries.
 
 The MIDC has acquired 1,300 acres of land, which is available for industries. The corporation is also acquiring more land for industries at   in the district.
 
 "The development in Mumbai and Pune have already crossed saturation limits. The land is much cheaper in Nashik when compared to both these cities. The proximity to both, Mumbai and Pune is another advantage. Nashik also has good road and rail connectivity with Mumbai. Road connectivity with Pune is also improving," said Patil.
 
 The MIDC is also developing new industrial estate at   in Dindori taluka of the district on 337 hectares of land. "Of this, we have acquired 200 hectares and are in the process of developing infrastructure. The remaining 137 hectares is expected to be acquired shortly. This new industrial estate will be 18km from the city and we are expecting it to be ready within the next six months. We will start allotment of plots there in next five-six months," she added.
 
 Moreover, the MIDC has acquired 87 hectares of land in Malegaon west, 109 hectare in Yeola and 156 hectare in Sinnar. The corporation is also in the process of acquiring more land at various locations in the district.
 
 During the two-day 'Make in Nashik' event, the MIDC will showcase the infrastructure and land available for new industries in the district. "We will highlight the plus points of Nashik like availability of land at moderate rates as compared to Mumbai and Pune, abundant water and other resources to attract new large investments," Patil said.
 
 Considering the huge potential for food processing industries, the MIDC has also decided to allow new food industries under 'Make in Nashik' in the   This will boost the food processing sector.
 
