Amritsar: Pakistan may take advantage of India-China skirmishes by augmenting infiltration and sponsor terror attacks in the country, stated the intelligence agencies on Tuesday. Given the situation, security forces have been ordered to step up vigil apprehending ‘misadventure’ by Pakistan with active support from Islamist and Sikh militants reportedly undergoing training in Pakistani terror camps.

 “We can see the implications in the form of spurt in infiltration attempts in Jammu and Kashmir and attacks on security forces. Attacks in J&K have already increased in the recent past. There could be attempts to storm security and civil installations in Punjab with the help of Sikh militants, who have taken shelter in Pakistan and are working in cahoots with Islamist militants,” said an intelligence agency source.
 
 In May, Punjab police had bust a terror module with the arrest of Harbinder Singh. The group, with handlers in Pakistan, had formed ‘Khalistan Zindabad’ and ‘Jatha Veer Khalsa’ armed outfits to carry out militant activities in Punjab. In June, cops had smashed another module whose members — Gurdial Singh and Jagroop Singh — had also received arms training in Pakistan.
 
 “For the first time, J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti has blamed China for meddling with the internal affairs of the state. If China is doing it (in J&K) with the help of Pakistani government supported Islamist militia, then it can do the same thing in Punjab with since Islamic and Sikh militants are already hand in glove and training in Pakistan,” said intelligence sources.
 
 “China’s engagement with India is Pakistan’s gain. Pakistan has already been sponsoring terrorists activities in Punjab and J&K, and it will continue to do so,” observed Kuldip Singh, political analyst and senior professor of political science at Guru Nanak Dev University.
 
 Following reports of skirmishes on the border, Pakistani media have already played up concocted stories of the Chinese attack on Indian troops which have been denied by the Chinese media. Sources told TOI that though there was no physical movement so far on Punjab border, the Border Security Force had been asked to stay at highest level of alert.
 
 “There are no implications of Indo-China bitterness on the Punjab border. But there are other implications for which we are always on alert and prepared,” said BSF deputy inspector general (Amritsar sector) J S Oberoi.
 
 
