 has already etched out a unique place among India’s vibrant young artists by seamlessly fusing her twin passions – art and poetry. So it is entirely befitting that her creative wellspring has led her to add another dimension to self-expression by turning some of her art into what she calls mindful mementos.

 As she puts it, "We all have too much 'stuff'... and yet we keep acquiring more." Indeed, too often the search for something to express a thought, a feeling, an achievement leads to the acquisition of just the usual keepsakes: a luxury label accessory, perhaps, or a piece of jewellery. But that feeling of happiness behind those acts of buying is not reflected in those objects. So, as Trishla says, she asked herself, "What if things themselves could become trusted mirrors and mentors?" Acquisitions with an inbuilt quotient of joy is totally a Trishla idea, as anyone who knows her will vouch. And so began her journey to create things that strike a balance between inner and outer joy.
 
 She chose a few of her soul-sparking canvasses or evocative motifs from her works and transposed them into other mediums, from affordable embellished artwork to accessories and home accents. The intention was to address all the small and large delights that so often seek simple actualisation through an object.
 
 Given her own boundless gratitude for what life has given her, whether it's a small embellished canvas rendering of a chandelier or a scarf incorporating her favourite vintage ephemera, each object exudes immense joy, both that bubbling effervescent kind and the deep one born of spiritual contentment.
 And in doing this latest extension of her oeuvre, she accomplishes another rare fusion: that of contemporary art and age-old craft. Each wall decoration piece, for instance, uses traditional Indian hand skills from classical embroidery styles to intricate beading, incorporating over 100 different materials. And every object aims to do what she does: thank joy. So far retailing only via her website www.trishlajain.com, her desire to share these mementos of joy with as many people as possible has led Trishla to reach out through other fora, too. So, from a debut showing in New York, her creations are now premiering in India. Think about thanking joy... with Trishla.
 
 Check out Trishla Jain’s mindful mementos this week at  , a fund-raising initiative of   that aims to bring about social change through retail activism, combining entrepreneurship with philanthropy. Its 7th edition is happening today and tomorrow at The Lodhi. Her offerings are being presented with a pop-up installation done by Henna Arora, a name to reckon with when it comes to bespoke event design and décor. She has a rich experience of over a decade in conceptualizing and executing some of the best weddings, events and even styling for high fashion magazines.
 
  
  
 
