MUMBAI: Google Earth maps have not only helped establish ownership of a prime 2.5 acres plot in Juhu but cleared the way for construction of the proposed coastal road on that stretch.

 In 1997, the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) sanctioned a slum rehabilitation scheme (SRS) on a plot owned by the Maharashtra Housing Area Development Authority (Mhada) on the right side of the Irla nullah at Juhu. However, the layout plan drawn by SRA showed 2.5 acres on the left side of the nullah as part of the slum scheme.
 
 The 2.5 acres is part of an overall 16-acre vacant plot owned by the Juhu Vile Parle Development (JVPD) Association comprising 14 housing societies. The plot is a long stretch alongside the nullah, going up to the Juhu creek. The land was conveyed to the association in the 1960s by MHADA and in 1977, the association in turn had given around eight acres to the   to develop it as an open space. The 2.5 acres was reserved by BMC in the Development Plan as a recreation ground (RG).
 
 It was only in 2010 that residents became aware that an SRS was coming up on the RG when developer   put up a board announcing it. In 2011, when tin sheets and security guards came up at the site, local residents Harit Desai, P K Das and others filed a complaint with the then municipal commissioner Subodh Kumar, who stayed construction on the open space.
 
 Desai then sought information under the RTI Act about the plan and approvals granted from SRA, Mhada and BMC. But very little information was forthcoming. “I kept urging the association to file a writ petition, but it wasn’t keen. In 2016, Ashok Nagar Housing Society, one of the co-owners, decided to file it,” said Desai.
 
 The petition was filed and immediately, SRA submitted an affidavit pointing out that the scheme had been sanctioned in 1997 and six of the eight rehab buildings were already ready. “For 19 years, the petitioners had not protested. The delay itself disentitles the petitioners from challenging the project,” stated the affidavit, asking for the petition to be dismissed.
 
 The developer Hemani in his affidavit said the sanctioned scheme did not fall on the RG plot but did not know who owned the plot. Justice V  , hearing the petition, then asked the petitioners to establish ownership.
 
 It was then that architect  , also a local resident, used Google Earth maps, super-imposed the conveyance map, the layout map, the 1980 and 1997 DP maps and finally the layout sanctioned by SRA on it. “All the other maps are drawings, while Google Earth maps given an actual aerial view of the site. The super-imposition of drawings on Google Earth helped establish ownership,” he said.
 
 Justice Kanade then asked SRA and the developer to file fresh affidavits in light of the evidence. The matter came up before the division bench of R M Savant and   in July. In its affidavit, SRA said no FSI or Transfer of Development Rights had been sanctioned for the area on the right side of the nullah while sanctioning the SRS.
 
 The bench in its order observed, “The developer in an affidavit dated December 6, 2016 states the plot belonging to the petitioners is not the subject matter of development. The upshot of the SRA affidavit is that no slum rehabilitation scheme is sanctioned on the plot.”
 
 Following the SRA affidavit, the petitioners withdrew the case. Desai said under the draft DP 2034, two arterial roads have been sanctioned on the 16-acre plot. “One is a 60-ft road that will cater to the local traffic, and the other is the 120-ft coastal road. If the slum scheme had gone ahead, it would have created hurdles for the coastal road as it is marked on the RG. I am happy the issue has been resolved in favour of the city,” he said.
 
