NEW DELHI: Unlike his two predecessors, UP Chief Minister   will contest bypolls to enter the state assembly within six months of taking charge as mandated by the Constitution. Party sources said he would contest bypolls rather than entering the legislative council as was the case with former CMs   and Mayawati. Both Mayawati (2007) and Akhilesh Yadav (2012) had not contested the assembly polls and became MLC to continue as CM. "Yogiji will contest the polls to respect the overwhelming support of the people," said a senior party functionary on condition of anonymity. 

  Party sources maintained that even the two deputy chief ministers --Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma --will face the electorate. Five members in the Yogi ministry are yet to become a member in the bicameral House in the state. Other than chief minister and two deputy chief ministers, Transport Minister Swatantradev Singh and Minority Welfare Minister Mohsin Raza are not members of either House. Sources said there will be a vacancy in the council in the next six months for which Mohsin Raza will be the candidate. 
 
 Yogi is likely to contest assembly bypolls from Gorakhpur which elected him to the Lok Sabha.
 
 Yogi is Lok Sabha MP from Gorakhpur while Keshav Prasad Maurya represents Phulpur Lok Sabha constituency. Dinesh Sharma resigned recently as mayor of Lucknow after taking over as deputy chief minister.
 
 Two sitting MLAs including Fateh Bahadur Singh (Campierganj) and Radha Mohan (Gorakhpur-Sadar) have already offered to vacate their seats for Yogi. Maurya is a popular leader from Allahabad region and may contest from the same region.
 
 Sources indicated that Lucknow North MLA Neeraj Vora may vacate the seat for Dinesh Sharma to contest and Vora will take over as Lucknow mayor.
 
 Sources said the party is keen about another round of electoral fight to reaffirm its supremacy over rivals as there might be four assembly bypolls and also two Lok Sabha bypolls as Yogi and Maurya will have to resign within 14 days of their election.
 
 Besides, there will be Rajya Sabha mid-term poll as Goa Chief Minister   is a Rajya Sabha MP from UP.
 
 In view of another round of mini electoral battle, party brass is maintaining the momentum it had gained with the assembly poll victory. BJP chief   was present during the state executive meet of the party on Tuesday. Sources said the party would soon appoint a new state chief to replace Maurya who took over as deputy CM.
 
 "There are four-five names being considered for the post," a senior party leader said. Sources said the new state president might be either an OBC or SC. 
 
 
