KOLKATA: A 32-year-old man, suspected to be  , was killed on Sunday as he lost control of his  , which crashed into a divider on   and  . His friend in the car was severely injured, while a  , who was hit by the car, escaped with minor injuries.

 Those who witnessed the crash said the maroon sedan, travelling from the Salt Lakeend towards VIP Road, suddenly picked up speed after turning left from Kabi Tirtha. As it approached Eco Park, the car was travelling at breakneck speed. It isn't clear how the accident took place, but onlookers suspect the motorist could have suddenly slammed on the brake on spotting speed-breakers ahead, and that led the car to veer dangerously to the side and hit the divider.
 
 “It was around 5.40pm. We were standing near the Eco Park gate when we heard tyres screeching, followed by a loud bang. We rushed over and found a sedan that had turned turtle,“ said Prithwish Dasgupta, a visitor to Eco Park.
 
 The police suspect the motorist, Sayak Ghosh (32), and co-passenger Sujay Bhadra were having a drink in the car. “Ghosh, a resident of Ahmherst Street, was at the wheel. After crossing Narkelbagan, as the car sped towards Gate 1 of Eco Park, the motorist braked hard, sending the car screeching to the right. The vehicle hit the divider, turned over and landed on the other flank,“ a policeman said.
 
 Sariful Islam, who was riding a bike in the other flank of the road, was injured when the vaulting car hit him. The police extracted Ghosh and Bhadra out of the mangled car. While Ghosh died on the spot, Bhadra was critically injured. Both Bhadra and Islam were sent to hospital.
 
 The Bidhannagar Police are concerned over the rise in accidents, especially owing to speeding through the empty roads in New Town. Last month, a biker, speeding from the Technopolis area, lost control of his bike and skid off the road. He was severely injured. In another incident last week, a speeding car hit two pedestrians. “We plan to set up speed-breakers in accident-prone areas of New Town. We are also checking if the large islands on roads are causing inconvenience. In that case, we may cut down on the size,“ said a Bidhannagar Commissionerate officer.
 
 Cops resort to lathicharge as friends, kin of boy killed in accident block road
 
 The police resorted to lathicharge to disperse a group of people who staged a sit-in demonstration on Maniktala Main Road around 11am on Sunday. The group was protesting against the cops' alleged failure to trace the car driver who mowed down a first-year college student, Vineet Chauhan (19), on Saturday. This was the second time the protesters squatted on the street since Saturday night, claimed cops.
 
 Among those who staged the demonstration was Chauhan's friends, neighbours and relatives. “The road was blocked for barely 10 minutes and it being a Sunday, did not disrupt traffic in a major way. The police did not even make an effort to open a dialogue with us, but instead, resorted to violence. We staged the protest as the cops could not trace the accused, despite CCTV cameras being put up at the accident spot,“ a friend said. Local MLA Sadhan Pandey reportedly met the group and requested them to call off their protest, promising quick police action. But when his assurance apparently failed to convince the protesters, the police reportedly resorted to lathicahrge. Lalbazar, however, refused to confirm if it was a last resort to disperse the crowd.
 
 The accident took place around 11.30am on Saturday when Vineet Chauhan, a resident of Vivekananda Road, was passing by CIT Road near Kankurgachi on his scooter; a car coming from Ultadanga hit him from behind, throwing him to the ground. Though Chauhan was wearing a helmet, it was probably not strapped properly and came off.
 
