NEW DELHI: EPCA on Monday directed the state environment department to revisit a 2012 air pollution control plan for Delhi and redraft it for the entire NCR. The SC-mandated authority said that recommendations from the Union environment ministry’s 42-point action plan may also be added to it.

 The revised action plan will be different from the graded response plan but it will compliment it, EPCA members said. While the former, which is a set of actions that will be taken based on air quality status — poor, very poor, severe and emergency — the long-term plan will help reduce emissions from all sources over the years. 
 
 EPCA has asked for drafting of this long-term plan following a recent SC order. The 2012 plan had suggested a complete overhaul of certain sectors. For example, to control vehicle numbers, it suggested BRT corridors with an intelligent transportation system, a common ticketing system and a traffic clearance process for every big project in the city, among other interventions.
 
 “Please add control of fires in Ghazipur and Bhalswa dump-yards to your plan. They are a massive problem,” an EPCA member said. Senior officials from the environment department said they had challaned the Ghazipur landfill authorities. “Now, they should be prosecuted,” an official added.
 
 EPCA members recommended that the   bus depot be paved and Ghazipur fires be controlled to bring down the pollution levels in Anand Vihar.
 
 Meanwhile, with an improvement in air quality, which is between poor and moderate level, EPCA has decided to call off “severe” category interventions brought into force by January-end. Members said another meeting would be held to take a decision on reopening the Badarpur power plant and lifting the prohibition on use of diesel generator sets.
 
 Two-wheeler companies say they need time
 
 All leading two-wheeler manufacturers, which attended the EPCA meeting on Monday, said they have an inventory of 5.4 lakh non-BS IV two-wheelers as of March 31, 2017. They said it was very difficult for them to predict a date by when these vehicles will be sold off, but they expected it to be exhausted in a few months. “We cannot leave this open ended. Let’s decide a date. It has to be time bound,” an EPCA member said.
 
 Companies such as   and   said they had already stopped production of BS-III models. The two-wheeler industry was supposed to switch over of BS IV for all new models from April 1, 2016.
 
 
