KOZHIKODE: Conservationists in the state are a worried lot. Deviating from their centuries-old habit of traversing long distances by sea, olive ridley sea turtles have this season kept away from Kerala's sandy shores, considered to be their favourite nesting ground.

 Experts said only three turtles have reached the seven major landing sites covered under the `Marine   in Kerala' programme of the   ( ) during this breeding season, which started in September.
 
 Indiscriminate construction of sea walls, which now covers around 70% of the state's 590-km  ,   and other human-induced disturbances were be ing cited as the major reasons that keep turtles away .
 
 “Not even a single turtle has landed in Kasaragod this season. The peak nesting period during November and December is already over, even though the nesting activity might continue till March. It is very disturbing as it reflects the bad health of our coastal eco-system,“ K Praveen Kumar, secretary of Naythal, an NGO that has been spearheading the turtle conservation in Kasaragod since 2003.
 
 He said the NGO had protected 27 nests in 2003.“Though there have been a decline in the number of turtle landings and nests over the years, the prospect of marine turtles abandoning the state's shores is very disturbing.“
 
 He said that apart from the ecological and geological factors, turtle causalities caused by abandoned fishing nets were keeping the reptiles away .
 
 “Many local fishermen have reported this nesting season that they have sighted many olive ridley turtles trapped in ghost nets. Many fishermen in Malabar use discarded nets for catching cuttlefish,“ he added.
 
 Renjan Mathew Varghese, state director of WWFIndia, said the drastic reduction in turtle nesting pointed at the degeneration of the state's coastal habitats.
 
 “Seawall is not a solution for coastal erosion. What we need is a beach nourishment programme,“ he said. He added that this year two olive ridley nests were spotted in Chavakkad in Thrissur and one at Thottapalli in Alappuzha.
 
 
 
 
