 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 For a   star who’s always essayed the perfect 
  in Hindi soaps and played the butter wouldn’t melt in her mouth roles, coming back after a hiatus of two years in a negative role can be tricky. . However, for actress  , a meaty role that gives her ample opportunities to explore her acting skills is what matters most. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 Honestly I was scared. Now that 
  is on air, I’m feeling the jitters. But I have been waiting for such a meaty role that people can relate to. While I enjoyed playing the goody two-shoes kind of characters, we have to understand that everyone is an equal mix of sugar and spice, and I wanted to explore that genre, where not everything is nice. 
 
 
 
 I took this break because of two reasons. Firstly, I wasn’t getting any interesting offers. Secondly I was clouded by too many things and was rethinking about my decision of whether I want to act further or to take a different path. I travelled a lot, also undertook Vipassana and learnt many things that helped me take a clear decision of staying in this profession. Also doing
  helped me in many ways. Everyday I had to face a new fear and fight it out. The two year break taught me a lot about myself.
 
 
 
 Audience is the king. When it comes to TV shows and its content, producers will only make those kind of shows/ stories that appeal to the masses. A majority of our viewership is in rural India. So, showmakers are churning out stories that most audiences prefer. 
 
 
 
 I wouldn’t say that women aren’t getting to explore varied roles on TV, but yes there are actresses like Jennifer Winget who are trying to do something different. There is definitely a shift in the Indian TV content. While many still to like to play safe, others are trying to break the pattern and do something new. Again at the end of the day it also depends on the audiences, if they aren’t liking something, the storyline is tweaked to suit their needs.
 
 
 
 I wouldn’t mind doing reality shows. Be it 
 or my dancing stint with, my husband Raqesh Vashisth on 
 , I enjoyed all of them. However, 
  is something that I would never take up. It’s not my cup of tea.
 
 
