VADODARA: The regional transport office (RTO) of Vadodara has finally woken up to the risk that hundreds of school children are exposed daily — the overloaded vans.

 Two days after eight students were injured when a school van overturned at Muktanand Circle in Karelibaug, the RTO cracked down on the van drivers on Wednesday for violating rules.
 
 Beginning early morning, four teams of RTO officials had caught school van drivers in different areas of the city. RTO sources said that in areas surrounding the schools, each team having 14 officials stopped the van drivers and asked for their registration papers, licenses, insurance papers among other documents.
 
 According to regional transport officer S P Muniya, 29 school vans were detained by them and cases were registered against 58 school van drivers for violation of various rules. “The 29 vans which were detained did not have permission to transport school children. They were registered for different purposes,” said Muniya adding.
 
  “Other school van drivers were booked since they had flouted different rules. They were fined and allowed to go later.”
 
 Muniya also said that in coming days too, the RTO will continue to take action against the school van drivers who are not registered as well as those who are flouting rules.
 
 The RTO got into action after 14 students of   had a providential escape when the van carrying them had overturned due to over-speeding. The incident had created furore among parents. However, due to lack of any other transport option, the parents continue to rely on school vans.
 
 “It is not possible for us to pick up and drop our son to school daily. So we prefer the van but we take care that the driver is not carrying more than permissible number of students in it,” said Vishakha Joshi, whose son studies in   School.
 
 Schools which do not provide bus service services regularly monitor private school van operators. While some school authorities ask parents to share the information of their van drivers, some directly ask the van drivers to submit their details with the school. The schools also makes surprise checks to ensure that van drivers are not overloading. But this seems to have limited impact.
 
 
