Welcome to  . Baffled? Well, something always gets lost in translation. And if you are one of the hundreds of   visiting the eighth edition of   who have clicked the  , you will be left more confused than usual. The portal that boasts of supporting 103 national and international languages is rife with   goofs.

 The site which is in English uses an online software to translate the text, and the result is a comedy of errors. Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit turns into Jeevant Gujarat Vishwa Sikhar Varta in Nepali. When translated in Gujarati, the page lists partner country as ‘jivansaathi desh’. A jivansaathi is a partner, but every partner cannot be a jivansaathi (or life partner, to be precise). Similarly, mobility partners are introduced as ‘gatisheelta jivansathi’ and state partner Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry is listed as ‘rajya jivansathi’. It is good that firemen will be on call at the global meet because the ‘lighting of the lamp’ ceremony to mark the inauguration translates into a ‘burning of the lamp ceremony’.
 
 Instead of ‘prajvalit karvu’ (lighting), the word used is ‘salgavvu’ (burning). Roshika Karki, a student from Nepal studying BBA at Som-Lalit college, says “While VGGS has turned into Jeevant Gujarat Vishwa Shikhar Varta in Nepali, the names of hotels mentioned on the website have been translated, too. So, Silver Cloud turns into Chandi Cloud while Grand 07 has become Mahan 07,” she said. It is no longer a matter of mirth when one considers that more than 15,000 delegates will take part in what is being hailed as the biggestever business meeting to pitch for investment.
 
 Over 400 of these delegates are foreigners coming from 21countries including Poland, Kenya, Uganda, Portugal, France, Nepal, UAE, Netherlands, Denmark, Serbia, Russia, Japan and Israel. Not all of them are fluent in English. Names of hotels on the website change according to the language chosen. Courtyard Marriot turns into ‘Chowk ma Marriot’ (Nepali) or ‘Aangan Marriot’ (Hindi) or ‘Egcekeni Marriot’ (Zulu). Country Inn Suites is ‘Desh Dharamshala Sevao’ (Gujarati) while Fortune Landmark is ‘Bhagya Landmarks’ (Marathi) and ‘Fortune Pehchaan’ (Hindi).
 
 Lemon Tree hotel is ‘Limbudi’ in Gujarati, ‘Nimbu ka Ped’ in Hindi, and ‘Drzewo Cytrynowe’ in Polish. Aloft turns into ‘En haut’ in French and in Serbian while The Fern is ‘An Raithneach’ in Irish. “Such mistakes can cause problems for foreigners. Not all know English. When you ask the website to be translated in Zulu, it is full of mistakes. If the names of hotels are not spelt right, visitors might end up at the wrong place,” said Nomusa Zawane of South Africa who studies BBA at JG college. The error is not restricted to names of hotels.
 
 The name of Mr Lord Livingston, former UK trade minister who had attended VGGS 2015, gets translated to “Shri Bhagwaan Livingston” in Hindi and ‘Shri Parmeshwar Livingston’ in Marathi. The Marathi version of the page also confers the title of ‘Dr’ to former Gujarat CM Anandiben Patel. The current chief minister has not been spared either. Vijay Rupani’s name is only partially transliterated in every version. While the name Vijay appears in the chosen script, Rupani always appears in English script. That’s not all. The translated texts also possess innumerable factual and grammatical errors. Brijen Mehta, a Japanese translator from the city, said, “Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit translates as Gujarat global summit in Japanese.
 
 They have skipped the word ‘Vibrant’. Also, they should have used the word ‘Benmei’ (valedictory) or ‘Shokan sesshon’ (valedictory session) instead they have used the word ‘Kokubetsu’ which means farewell.” Chintan Pandya, the former cultural director at Alliance Francaise, said, “The website is filled with mistakes. Even a simple thing like ‘Distance d’aéroport’ should be ‘Distance depuis l'aéroport’ (distance from the airport).” “Spelling of domain, international, policy, canon and promotion have been spelt wrong in Sinhala.
 
 There are so many mistakes that entire sentences have been rendered meaningless,” said Chalani Liyanage, a Sri Lankan student of BA Psychology at Bhavans College. When it comes to Urdu and Persian – languages that are written and read right to left – the translator defies these rules. Najiah Muhamady of Afghanistan who studies BBA at J G College said, “The sentences have been translated from left to right which makes reading and comprehension extremely difficult – that is if the words even make sense..” Efforts to contact Additional Chief Secretary (Industries and Mines) P K Taneja were unsuccessful.
 
 However, Rajkumar Beniwal, managing director of iNDEXTb , the marketing arm of government handling VGGS, said: “Our website is in English. We got an agency to use an auto language converter to make it easy for foreigners and people from other parts of the country to read the site.” Told about the mistakes, he said, “I am not aware there are such mistakes on the website. I will check it immediately and see what steps can be taken to redress it.”
 
 
