THANE: A huge amount of sand (around 45,000 tonnes), which engineers say is enough to construct a single-lane concrete road between Thane and CST, was scooped out of the creek bed in Thane by the mafia in the last one year alone.

 A glance at the action taken by the revenue department in 2016-17 on the Thane creekfront yielded around 1,645 brass sand while that in Kalyan yielded 4,201brass. Raids along the Bhiwandi shore netted around 4,250 brass sand. This volume, say engineers from the public works department, is roughly equal to the quantity needed to build a 36km long concrete road or roughly four Mantralayalike structures. They say approximately 260 brass of sand is required to build a single kilometre of cement concrete road.
 
 Officials say illegal mining here is a yearlong process as business thrives on demand for construction activity, including buildings and roads. While experts say creekside sand isn't recommended for construction, small-time developers and contractors often use it to cut costs, which indirectly fuels the mafia here. Sand cost is about 7-8% of total construction cost of any structure, said experts.
 
 Officers said the Kalyan shores had become a hub of this illegal activity with small-time mafias in the vicinity dumping their stock here. The administration recently demolished 35 such holding points for sand, where they were stacked after being scooped out of the creek.
 
 The mechanised dredging of sand from water bodies though banned, yields the mafia a decent sum with no taxes paid to the government. The value of the cache of sand recovered last year alone could have fet ched the government around Rs 4 crore. “We have held three auctions for sand dredging here but no one turned up as they find it easy to buy the illegally procured sand that goes cheap at Rs 5,000 per brass, compared to the Rs 7,000 government rate,“ said an official.
 
 The huge yield of illegally excavated sand has again exposed how lax law enforcement has enabled large-scale destruction of natural resources, affecting marine biodiversity and endangering human life.
 
 Ecologists have cautioned not only of damage to the local eco-system but even to infrastructure like road and rail bridges over creeks, that could get destabilized due to intense activity around the pillars.
 
 The   and   MP   have alerted the Thane district administration of possible damage to railway lines at certain stretches between   and Dombivli due to rampant dredging there. “The plundering of creek beds by the mafia is already affecting marine life. Also, depth of the creeks increases due to frequent dredging, which endangers settlements around the embankments. The police and revenue department seem to be neglecting the mafia. How else can the mafia get away so easily?“ said   of the NGO Vanashakti.
 
