JAIPUR: Villagers of Mamoni in Khanda Sahrol gram panchayat in   of   district look to the sky with hope and wait for rain, but when it does come, it brings in its wake a fresh set of troubles. There are no proper roads or drains in the area, and when it rains, the whole village is reduced to a mess.

 The small children headed out to school can never expect to get to school in a state that will allow them to concentrate on their studies. Workers have to walk with care to reach fields.
 
 There is garbage littered all over, and to make matters worse, there is also a small pond near the village that, once filled with rainwater, can cause something akin to a flood. National Highway-27 is not far, but the village roads are just dirt paths.
 
 At the Tejaji Ka Danda village in Bhanwargarh too, the situation is the same. The road is reduced to a path of slush after the rains. Mosquitoes breed and morbidity is high because the dirty water can even enter sources of drinking water. Villagers say they have approached authorities, but are informed about the lack of funds.
 
 Firoz Khan, a social activist who regularly tours these areas, said even village head Dharmaraj Choudhury has taken up the matter with authorities. “We have sent a proposal for the repair of roads, but have not got any funds yet. Work will begin once funds are sanctioned,” he said.
 
 The rains have caused at least three deaths this year in the state – a college teacher was washed away in a Jodhpur drain; the body of a government official was recovered on Sunday three days after his official vehicle was washed away in Banswara; a 12-year-old died of drowning after jumping into a pond created by rainwater in Ajmer district days ago.
 
 Even as roads and drains remain in such poor shape, the Centre allotted over Rs 20,000 crore in this year’s budget for the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. The focus of that effort, though, remains the construction of toilets, prevention of open defection and disposal of garbage. Not enough attention is paid to whether toilets have adequate water and whether human faecal matter is properly disposed of. As a result, many toilets lie unused and people either use them to tether their goats or for storage.
 
 The Swachh Bharat Mission is being monitored by the PMO through a specially devised management information system; days ago, chief minister Vasundhara Raje too announced she would monitor progress of Swachch Bharat every 15 days.
 
 
