Mumbai: Earlier this year, the  , through the  , directed senior bank executives to obtain certification for training in areas like  ,   and  . Now   is providing its expertise in the financial sector in India in a partnership with  . In an interview to TOI, Fitch Learning CEO Andreas Karaiskos says training holds the key to much of the challenges faced by the banking sector. Excerpts:

 What is the relevance of mid-career training for finance professionals today?
 
 Over the last 10 years, the financial market has had a lot of challenges and issues. Some of the challenges are still evident today. Education plays a big role in meeting some of those challenges. Take for example the wealth management industry. There is big growth of the mass affluent and high net worth segment, which will continue. They are asking for more advice and looking to access more complicated products. We see education as playing a role in developing skills, knowledge and ultimately conduct in the financial market so that the needs of the client are met through the right professional standards.
 
 Is there a need for financial professional training across the board or only for those seeking advancement?
 
 We operate in financial markets that do not stand still. They are complex, they are integrated and they impact one another more today than they ever did in the past. So I feel anybody coming to the industry needs development and those that are in the industry would also be reaching out and looking for development and education.
 
 What are the career opportunities in the financial sector?
 
 India has the biggest student population on the planet and they are demanding more and more quality learning. For example, there were over 18,000 students who studied for the globally recognised CFA qualification last year — that’s an increase of 15%. Learning is becoming more and more by choice. This is very much about realising the ambition of this generation in the international financial markets. It is about providing the highest standards of financial education through the use of disruptive technology.
 
 What does the   of a large number of   — including small-ticket lending — hold for banking professionals?
 
 Over the last 100 years, you have probably seen automation and technology impact financial services. Perhaps it is more visible today, so it is much more discussed. The fundamentals of banking and finance remain the core understanding of credit risk, which has to be still thought and understood. Good appreciation of credit risk allows the right decisions to be made and supports growth in an economy. We don’t see that changing. The process of credit risk approvals is definitely becoming more automated.
 
 Indian banks are struggling with bad debt. Does this tie in with their core understanding of credit?
 
 I think it is important here to look at banking over a long period of time than just now when balance sheet issues are a talking point. It comes back to better skilled and a more informed workforce. A workforce that can analyse the credit risk behind a transaction is now more needed than earlier. We see the RBI’s decision to put high standards and create capacity in banking sector as a key dimension to supporting some of the current challenges.
 
 What do you plan to offer in India?
 
 Fitch learning has been supporting students on the ground for over 10 years. The partnership we have with Times Professional Learning allows the student more accessibility to what we can offer. We bring choice to the market. We have faculty right on the ground in India and outside India who can bring huge expertise and experience. As part of the Fitch group, we bring a very real market insight to what is going on in the economies around the globe.
 
 
