INDORE:   in the region last night triggered concerns about the yield and production of chickpeas or   and pulses crop. Untimely rains during the maturity period of crop hit the productivity and quality.

 Ujjain, Shajapur,  , Neemuch and Mandsaur received light winter showers on Saturday. The weather department has issued warning of scattered rainfall at various places in the next 24 hours.
 
 Neemuch and Ratlam may receive rains with hailstone according to the forecast of regional weather department.
 
 Kailash Agrawal, an agriculture expert said, “Rains are not required at this stage as the crop is fully grown and ready to harvest in several regions. Heavy and continuous rains may cause severe damage to the standing crops of chana and pulses.”
 
 Chana is a winter crop sown mainly in November and the harvesting process starts after 3 to 4 months depending upon the variety of the crop. Madhya Pradesh is the top producer of chana while it ranks fourth in terms of wheat production in the country.
 
 Agriculture experts said that rains and hailstone in the Indore region at the time of harvesting of crops may adversely impact the quality and productivity of the standing crops.
 
 Suresh  , an agriculture expert said, “Rains weigh on standing crops and crops may lie down flat in the fields. Dry weather is required during the maturity period.”
 
 Experts said that after rains, dry and sunny weather is required in the day time to absorb the moisture from the soil and help plants to stand upright.
 
 Agriculture experts said that the early sown wheat, chana and tur crops will suffer the most damage as the crop is fully ready to be harvested.
 
 Motwani said, “Even after the crop is harvested, dry weather is essential as crops are stored in open fields and rains may damage the crop. All the   do not have indoor holding capacity and most of them keep their crops in open for drying.”
 
 Experts said that sunlight is very necessary in the region after rains to help recovery of the standing crops.
 
 Farmers have sown wheat on over 1.17 lakh hectares while chana is sown on 75,000 hectares this season as per the latest data available with the Indore agriculture department.
 
 
