HYDERABAD: Non-Resident Indian (NRIs) are giving back to their country and how! An   from US has donated Rs 20 lakh which is being used to construct a Primary Health Sub Centre (PHSC) in his native village of   in Suryapet in Telangana. By August end, the construction will be completed and this will facilitate more institutional deliveries.

 It is the Ministry of External Affairs’ initiative   (ODF-OI) that is spurring and encouraging NRIs to give back to their motherland. Inspired by G   from the US who decided to give Rs 20 lakh, a local retired postman decided to do his bit.   donated 560 sq yards on which the PHSC is being constructed. “There was no government land available in the village. Lingaiah came forward to donate his land for the cause. The village felicitated both Satyanarayana and Lingaiah,” Suryapet collector G Surendra Mohan told TOI.
 
 While encouraging NRIs to give back to their motherland, the ODF-OI has made it clear that 100 per cent of their donation would be used for the very purpose the donor would approve of. According to  , ex-officio, CEO of ODF-OI and joint secretary (OIA-II), MEA, the progress of the work is shown to the donor in the form of field visits, photographs and videos.
 
 Suryapet district collector Surendra Mohan said a gram panchayat meeting decided that the village needed the PHSC. The existing one is located in a one-room rented premises with no toilet facilities. But things are going to change when a more spacious planned premises will be constructed with the NRI’s donation.
 
 Through NRI donated funds, another project is also being undertaken in Mahbubnagar district where a model ground and anganwadi centre will become a reality with NRI funds. There have been proposed in the district with the cost of all three will be more than Rs 40 lakh.
 
 “There are NRIs who want to give. District collectors should identify the needs and propose the works,” Vani Rao said. Ideally, proposals for works should be submitted for a budget of Rs 5 lakh to Rs 30 lakh. The works should be about permanent assets creation.
 
 In a first of its kind, an MoU was entered into by the Ministry of External Affairs, IDF-OI with the state government to facilitate funding by overseas Indians to projects on May 13 in the city. The projects will pertain to sanitation, healthcare, education, and women and child development. Vani Rao who spoke on “Enabling philanthropy, by overseas Indians for social and development projects” at the First MEA-State Outreach Programme jointly organised by the MEA and General Administration (NRI) Department, Government of Telangana also urged the government to appoint a nodal official in the state.
 
