MUMBAI: With only three months left for the financial year to end, it has come to light that the school education department, led by senior BJP leader  , and the co-operation department, controlled by Chandrakant Patil, are the only two to have utilised more than 90% of their budgetary allocation.

 According to the information put up on the finance department’s website on January 2, out of the total allocation, the school education department utilised 93.97% and the cooperation department spent 92.11%. All the 30 departments together utilized 72.86% of the budgetary allocation.
 
 The school education and cooperation departments are followed by the medical education department (89.77%), led by Girish Mahajan; public health department (85.39%), led by Deepak Sawant; and agriculture department (81.53%), controlled by Pandurang Fundkar. The home department and the urban development, which are both with chief minister  , utilised 71.84% and 53.76% of the total budgetary provision for the fiscal year.
 
 The performance of the revenue and forest; environment; water supply; tourism and culture; and minorities departments was dismal as most of them failed to utilise even 50% of the allocation. The water supply department used only 22.11% of the  , tourism and culture department 26.18%, revenue and forest department 35.29%, environment department 37.78%, and tribal development 39.59%. 
 
 A senior bureaucrat said the departments that have utilised 70-75% of the budgetary allocation will be able to use the entire amount by the end of the fiscal year. “According to the data on the website, 10 departments spent less than 50% of the funds. We feel that these departments may not be able to utilise all of the funds,” he said.
 
 The bureaucrat said that it is the responsibility of the cabinet members and the department secretaries to ensure that the budgetary allocation is utilised in a phased manner. “As per the convention, the cabinet member and the secretary are expected to monitor the performance of the department so that the entire allocated funds are utilised as per provisions of the annual budget,” he said.
 
 He said, on the one hand, a section of cabinet members complain of lack of funds, while on the other hand, the money was not being utilized.
 
 
