Chandigarh: District   disputes redressal forum directed Country Club to pay Rs 10,000 as compensation for denying booking to one of its member despite an email confirmation.

 They were also directed to also refund Rs 3,500 which they had charged the consumer illegally for one-night stay at the resort and Rs 10,500 which the complainant had spent to book another hotel.
 
 G S Kochchar, a resident of Sector 15 in Chandigarh stated in his complaint that he had purchased a membership of Country Club (India) by paying consideration amount of Rs 1.20. The club granted him ‘Blue/Studio’ membership for the period from 2011 to 2041 vide Membership Purchase Agreement dated December 6, 2011 which entitled holiday package at the properties situated in India and Sri Lanka.
 
 To avail the benefits, he along with his spouse planned a holiday trip to Hyderabad and approached the club for booking in its resort at Hyderabad from March 24, 2016 to March 28, 2016. The club via email dated January 2, 2016, booked accommodation for the complainant in its resort Amrutha Castle, Hyderabad for the aforesaid period after which he purchased air tickets to travel from Delhi to Hyderabad and back. However, when he reached the booked resort on March 24, 2016, he was told that no such accommodation was booked in his name.
 
 On the request of the complainant, the hotel gave him accommodation for one night only, that too on payment of normal room rent of Rs 3,500 and for other 3 days, he stayed at another hotel in Hyderabad and paid Rs 10,549 for the same.
 
 The stand taken by Country Club was that the alleged email was a wrongly interpreted by Kochchar. It was actually not a confirmation slip for the complainant’s stay at Hyderabad, and he booked air tickets on his own without any confirmation from their side. It was also contended that the complainant being its old customer very well knew the procedure for booking as he had already availed two trips for which the reservation confirmation vouchers were issued.
 
 Forum after hearing both sides stated that, “The act of the Club in alluring the innocent consumers, giving membership for consideration, later giving confirmation of stay at their resort to avail holiday package, non-accommodating the complainant on arrival at the resort, compelling him to look for alternative accommodation and charging Rs 3,500 from him for the stay at its accommodation of which the complainant is a member certainly amounts to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice which caused mental and physical harassment to the complainant.”
 
 
