BENGALURU:   did not live up to the  . The business was modest, partly because of the cap on cash transactions at Rs 2 lakh.

 Coming so soon after the near collapse of the business during the demonetization months, the environment is now beginning to seriously worry jewellers. Traders are now seeking a special slab for gold jewellery in the   (GST) regime, that is expected to kick in on July 1.
 
 They have requested the Centre to fix the tax rate at 1.25% for ornaments made of gold, diamond or other precious materials. “Akshaya Tritiya sales were moderate and we were not shocked at the numbers. However, looking forward, the concern is to make the business viable. We request the government to fix   at 1.25%,” said Niti Khandelwal, president, All-India Gems and  .
 
 In the present tax regime, gold jewellery attracts 1% value added tax (VAT). On imported gold, there’s a 10% customs duty.
 
 While the GST Council is yet to classify commodities, it has announced five tax slabs of zero, 5%, 12%, 18%, and 23%. “It would be huge leap if the tax rate changes from 1% to 5%. Gold jewellery is price sensitive and is a high-value commodity. The higher tax rate is not advisable. It deserves a special slab,” said Khandelwal.
 
 He said the association has already met Union finance minister Arun Jaitley, who is also the GST Council chairman. He would lead another delegation ahead of the next GST Council meeting expected in mid-May.
 
 Vinod Hayagriv, managing director of C Krishniah Chetty & Sons, said Jaitley has assured jewellers the GST Council would consider their demand sympathetically. “He said there would be no surprises for us. That means the tax rate will be in the region of the current level. A 0.25 percentage point hike would be fair,” said Hayagriv. He said jewellers were also seeking to lower customs duty from the current 10% to 4%.
 
 In Karnataka, around 2,253 kg of gold and over 1,464 kg of silver were sold during Akshaya Tritiya, about the same as last year. “The Akshaya Tritiya sales are a clear pointer to the distress the jewellery industry is in. Since it’s about the livelihood of lakhs of people, the government must consider our demands,” said YS Ravikumar, president of Jewellers Association, Bengaluru.
 
 He said in Karnataka alone over 3 lakh artisans are involved in making of jewellery and another 10,000 people are working at jewellery outlets.
 
 Jewellery traders are also seeking a relaxation on cash transactions, scrapping of service charges on debit and credit card payments and providing better internet connectivity to enable customers to do online payments. “When the government is incentivizing online payments for petrol purchase, why doesn’t it take similar encouraging steps for the jewellery industry?” said TA Saravana, owner of a jewellery chain in Bengaluru.
 
 
 
 
 Jewellers say there’s a mistaken belief among people that there is a cap on how much gold they can keep. This is said to be impacting sales. There is no such cap, provided the gold is accounted for. “The government should take steps to create awareness about this,” said GV Sridhar, former chairman of All-India Gems and Jewellery Trade Federation.
 
