JAIPUR:   cultivation in Chittorgarh, Pratapgarh and Kota is heading for a bumper crop due to good monsoon but that has put the police on its toes. 

 The high yield per hectare crop forms ideal condition for smuggling opium into Punjab through Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. Police had damaged standing opium crop couple of days ago grown in the interior of these areas as the producer did not have a proper licence. The cost of 1 kg opium in the domestic market in estimated to be around Rs 70,000-Rs 1 lakh. It goes up to Rs 5 lakh in the international market. Rajasthan grows 60% of India’s opium for use in medicine and military operations.
 
 The   (CBN) said that of 19, 823 licences issued in three states—Rajasthan,   and Uttar Pradesh— 40% of them were issued to farmers in Rajasthan. It also includes a special licence to Maharana Pratap Agriculture University in Udaipur for academic purpose. 
 
 The consumption of opium and poppy husk is banned and a punishable offence barring to few people who hold a licence to consume. Last year, over 70% of the crops were destroyed due to poor monsoon and hailstorm in the winter. This has created a big demand this year in Marwar and Punjab. 
 
 The rule says a licenced farmer has produced at least 58 kg opium per hectare land. The good crop fetchs close to 65-70 kg per hectare of opium. The reason for smuggling is that government pays Rs 3,000 per kilogram opium to the farmers while it fetches 100 times in the international market. Police have made special teams monitoring the national highways and interiors. The modus operandi for smuggling changes every year. Until last year the gas cylinders were used as carriers by the smugglers. 
 
 “Stopping the smuggling especially from Chittorgarh and   is next to impossible as the vast network of roads gives an easy escape for smugglers,” said a CBN official.
 
 These districts have been on alert since 200 kg poppy husk and 16 kg opium was seized from a smuggler in Jodhpur on January 24. 
 
 “For the last three years, our average seizure of poppy husk was 15,000 kg and opium was 70 kg. Besides, on an average, 80-100 cases were registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS) during the period. This year as the crop is expecting to be good, we have already activated our network and beefed up monitoring in the highways,” said PK Khamesara, SP of Chittorgarh. 
 
 Even the CBN inspectors have been inspecting fields to make the rough estimate of opium production along with inspecting dhabas along with highways and truckers bound to Punjab and Marwar. 
 
 “During this period, the officials carry out inspection in the field to see status of the crop. The crop becomes mature at this period and farmers cuts the flower to generate opium,” said an official. 
 
 
