NEW DELHI: Indian visitors have emerged among the top overseas spenders in the US and Uncle Sam is now pulling all stops to attract more tourists from the country.

 Brand USA, the destination marketing organization for the country, says the latest travel data is for 2015 which shows India was at number 11in terms of source market for tourists to the US and number seven in terms of spend. Of the 7.7 crore international visitors US had in 2015, 11.1 lakh were from India who collectively spent $12 billion. 
 
 “Indians are among the highest spenders among overseas visitors to the US. From overseas, UK sends the highest number of visitors to the US. In 2015, Indians on an average spent $10,700 — almost four times more than $2,600 by those from the UK,” said Chris  , president and CEO of  .
 
 
  
 
 The average spend by all foreign visitors was $4,400-4,500. Indians also tend to have long stays with average traveller spending 35 days there on a trip in 2015. Amid talk of extreme checks at airports in recent days for visitors entering the US, Thompson assured Indian visitors that nothing had changed for them. 
 
 “Nothing about ability to get a visa, or enter has really changed. There have been no policy changes yet. A lot of things have been said but nothing has changed. We have a great history of a very strong relationship with our friends and visitors from India. That is not going to change at all,” he said. 
 
 Reassuring India is a must as the country is one of the fastest growing source tourism markets for the US. The year 2015 saw 17% rise in visitors from India to the US and 8% increase in spend by them. 
 
 “The US department of Commerce projects that Indian visitors will rise on an average by 9-10% over the next five years. India is one of our most important source markets in terms of economic impact. We see India as a major contributor to tourism,” Thompson said.
 
 “The interesting thing about India is that its population is getting younger. Our ability to capture attention at a young age and nurture that over most of their adult life will help us in future,” Thompson said, adding, “We are looking at improvement in entry and visa policy. We will make it easier for people to travel between the two countries.” More Indians are now opting out of package tours to the US and going in for individual bookings by going online.
 
