VADODARA/ ANAND: Amidst chaos, protest and police protection, the zonal fee regulation committee formed by Gujarat government to   structure of private schools under the Gujarat Self-Financed School (Regulation of Fees) Act 2017 held its first meeting for   at the district education officer (DEO) office here at Karelibaug on Friday.

 Ahead of the meeting, the Vadodara District Parents Association made an appeal to the committee to allow it make a representation before it. 
 
 But before the meeting could start, members of the Vali Vedna Congress Samiti floated by the Congress staged a protest outside the premises demanding that parents’ representative should be included in the committee. 
 
 Karelibaug police, however, detained 13 Congress leaders who were shouting slogans. “The entire process is an eyewash. The committee has been given 90 days time to decide on the application for revision form schools and another 90 days for an appeal at the state level fee regulatory committee. By this time parents would have paid fees for two more quarters. By the time 180 days or six months get over, state elections would be around the corner causing more delay,” said Congress leader  . 
 
 Retired judge  , who heads the Vadodara zonal committee, however said that the Act does not have provision to listen to representations made by group of parents or parents association. 
 
 Ironically, the committee will also not share its proceedings with the media as Rana claimed that after the fee revisions are finalised, the schools will directly put the revised fees on their notice boards. 
 
 The committee is also not certain whether the fees decided by them will be uploaded online or shared on any public forum. When questioned about the absence of parents’ representative from the committee and secrecy surrounding its proceedings, Rana said that the Act itself has been passed for the benefit of students and parents. 
 
 He also stressed that the committee will be able to complete its task within the prescribed time frame. 
 
 The committee includes retired professor and former vice-chancellor of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University R G Kothari, chartered accountant Lalit Mehta, Jagdish Shukla, a member of the executive body of the Vadodara Unaided Private School Association and civil engineer Rajnikant Shah. It is expected to meet again after May 24. 
 
 It is worth mentioning here that the committee members will be paid honorarium for each meeting. While the chairman will get Rs 5,000 per meeting, other members will get Rs 4,000 per meeting. In total, the chairman can get Rs one lakh as maximum honorarium per month while the committee members can get Rs 75,000 as honorarium per month.
 
 
