MANALI: Nearly 230   and   (ATVs), that the local villagers had purchased from abroad and other states after investing crores of rupees to generate self employment, are gathering rust as they are not being allowed to conduct any tourism activity in upper Manali.

 The   (NGT) had imposed ban on all commercial tourism activities in Rohtang and Solang in 2015. It had asked the Himachal government to prepare a plan to regulate all activities. Specific areas were allotted for different tourism activities and a trail was marked near Marhi below Rohtang pass towards Sagu waterfall a few months back for snowmobiles and ATVs. But, the locals are now jobless as the area is snowbound and not accessible in winter months.
 
 The youths here invested in expensive machines which were introduced for the first time in India. The upper Manali villages have 86 snowmobiles and 144 ATVs. Nearly 75 snowmobiles and 120 ATVs have been registered with the tourism department and others are in the process for registration. The machines have become an integral part of the tourism activities in Manali.
 
 ATV association president Devi Chand said they have formed the body as directed by NGT to keep watch on every service provider. “We are happy that the land has been marked near Marhi but the area remains open only in summers. We had demanded to mark another trail from Solang towards Anjani Mahadev temple. But, officially we are not being allowed to conduct any activity so far,” he said.
 
 Similarly, snowmobiles run only on snow in winter months. Road to Marhi is blocked with snow and tourists are not being allowed to go beyond Palchan village, 9km from here. Solang has snow but the NGT ban is applicable on snowmobiles as well. The operators had demanded allotment of a trail in Solang but they have not found relief so far. 
 
 Many people here have sold their machines to tourism operators of Jammu and Kashmir where such activities are in huge demand. Fateh Chand, a snowmobile operator, said the road to Marhi is expected to open by April end and tourists will be allowed in May. “The snow will melt by June end. That means we will get business for maximum of one month in a year. Many of us are college students and it was our part time job. All the machines are parked outside the houses and gathering rust,” he said.
 
 Manali sub-divisional magistrate   said tourism and forest departments have been asked to mark a trail somewhere near Solang where both the activities could run in a regulated manner under NGT guidelines. “The process of selecting land and marking trail is under way,” he said.
 
