Life with   is tough as one has to keep managing their blood sugars. Type 1 diabetes gets a bit tougher as it impacts people at younger age and they sometimes cannot really manage regular activities. Yet with newer technologies as reported in a recent study in 
  like insulin pump and sugar monitoring devices, fair amount of physical activities can be managed for type 1 diabetics too.

 The role of exercise is well documented and understood in  . Enough data is available for the benefits of exercise and lifestyle changes to improve quality of life in these patients. But same is not true for people diagnosed and suffering from Type 1 Diabetes which usually has a very early onset. It has been seen in most cases of type 1 diabetes that the patients have much lower levels of activity as compared to their compatriots without diabetes. This is probably due to the fear of management of glucose metabolism and hypoglycemia. 
 
 Newer technologies like glucose monitoring and insulin pump have made exercise more doable for type 1 diabetics. What needs to be carefully managed is the preparation before the physical activity, managing the levels of insulin in blood and planning the activity in such a way that there is a spurt of high activity just at the beginning and end of the session. The insulin pump and glucose monitoring devices come in handy, to both adjust dosage of insulin and keep monitoring sugar levels before, after and during the exercise or a sport. This helps the person understand his/her sugar patterns and manage dosage and activity accordingly. Hypo and hyperglycemia may happen and hence it is vitally important to be careful. With even type 1 diabetics suffering from obesity these days physical activity has to be incorporated into their daily regimen and these new technologies are very useful for the same. 
 
 A newest study published in 
  explores all the parameters related to exercise and blood sugar management and discusses the new technology that supports the process. Thus, better management of blood sugar and fair amount of exercise leads to better outcomes for type 1 diabetics.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
