AURANGABAD: The general body meeting of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has paved the way for construction and black topping of nine roads in Satara Deolai. The roads will be developed at Satara Deolai at an expenditure of Rs 8.5 crore. 

 Satara Deolai is a new inclusion to the city. During the former mayor Trimbak Tupe’s tenure, altogether 10 roads were proposed to be improved in Satara and Deolai. However, the current mayor Bhagwan Ghadamode on Thursday deleted one of the proposed roads between MIT institute and Satara village and approved the nine other roads.
 
 All the roads would link the Satara Deolai localities with the Beed Bypass. The area was earlier under the purview of Cidco, which would collect betterment charges from residents and developers. However, after the area was merged into the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), Cidco deposited the betterment charges to the tune of Rs 8.5 crore with the AMC around eight months ago. Cidco collected the charges prior to the merger.
 
 Satara Deolai corporator Appasaheb Hivale had submitted a proposal to the civic body and the administration that roads should be constructed with the amount deposited by Cidco. Other corporators, including Kailas Gaikwad and Kachru Ghodke, supported Hivale’s proposal.
 
 During the discussion, BJP’s Raju Shinde pointed out that a major chunk of the population resides in the Satara Deolai area that lacks proper road connectivity to the Beed bypass. 
 
  corporator Siddhanth Shirsath was backed by party members   and  , while demanding that concrete roads be built in the area. Hivale, however, took exception to the suggestion saying that it was impossible to carry out cement road work for all 10 roads at Rs 8.5 crore. Hivale said that a huge amount would be needed to build concrete roads.
 
 Former mayor Trymabak Tupe suggested that the civic body might consider deleting the road from MIT to Satara village, to facilitate speedy construction of roads in the newly merged township. Following this, mayor Ghadamode directed the administration to delete the proposed MIT-Satara road and start the process to build roads in the area.
 
 The civic body also passed a resolution to install the statues of Jhansi Rani and freedom fighter   at  
 
