CHENNAI: Just a third of 32,570 Plus Two students who had cleared the   ( ) in Tamil Nadu have sought admission in private self-financing medical colleges so far.

 With just a day left for sale of application and another day to submit filled in applications, a total of 44,798 application forms had been sold at various medical colleges in the state. While 30,874 students have picked applications for government quota seats, just 11,924 have opted for management quota seats in self-financing colleges.
 
 Officials in the sales counter said most students who picked applications for self-financing colleges had also picked forms for government colleges. “Many students downloaded application forms, as they were out of stock. As of now, it will be tough to guess the number of students who applied for both these colleges. We will know the exact number only when they applications are turned in,” said selection committee secretary G Selvarajan. The last day for submitting applications is on or before July 8.
 
 The MBBS/BDS admissions will be based on NEET- 2017 scores, if the government does not get the President’s nod for the state Act that allows the government to use Class 12 marks alone for MBBS/BDS admissions.
 
 Right now, 32,570 NEET-qualified students are competing for 3,377 MBBS seats. Of this a total of 2,867 MBBS seats have been reserved for students from the state board. Of the available 1,190 BDS seats, 1,011 have been reserved for state board students.
 
 The selection committee at the directorate of medical education will do admissions to state run colleges and self-financing colleges affiliated to the state medical university. Parents said one of the major deterrents for admission in private colleges is the high fee structure. The fee fixation committee charges Rs 13,600 as fee (including tuition, special, caution deposit, library and university fee) for MBBS and Rs 11,600 for BDS in government colleges, and up to Rs 4 lakh as tuition fee for students in government quota seats in self-financing colleges. For management quota the tuition fee goes up to Rs 12.50lakh. “While the fee fixed for government colleges includes many components, only tuition fee has been fixed for private colleges. In some colleges fee per year may go up to Rs 16 lakh,” said R Sivasamy, a banker whose daughter is an aspiring medical student.
 
