CHANDIGARH: The   on Wednesday pushed for market reforms in agriculture, more funds for crop insurance and also raised the target for credit to farmers. However, experts and farmers have their fingers crossed, saying agriculture was a state subject.

 While presenting the Budget, Union finance minister   announced a 24% hike in the total proposed outlay for agriculture and also proposed to raise the limit of farm credit to Rs 10 lakh crore for the financial year 2017-18.
 
 Commenting on the proposal to urge the state governments to delist perishables such as vegetables and fruits from Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) and allow farmers to sell such items directly to consumers to get a better price, noted farm economist P S Rangi, who is the marketing consultant with the   (PSFC), said, “The APMC Act has been amended since 2002 and the Centre has been asking the states to make changes in the acts at their end but that hasn’t happened yet. Even, now disbanded, Planning Commission had been warning the states to amend their respective APMC acts or they would lose grants, it still failed to bring the desired results. Since agriculture is a state subject, the Centre can at best advise the states to follow suit.”
 
 Speaking of bringing the number of APMCs under e-national agriculture market (e-NAM) to 585 from 250, Rangi said the farmers were way behind in IT awareness and digitization. “The farmers, commission agents, local traders and even mandi officials don’t have the training to work on such an advanced platform. It will take many years before e-NAM can start functioning on a big scale with no technical hiccups,” he said.
 
 However, farmers have appreciated the move to augment the Long Term Irrigation Fund set up by NABARD to take the total corpus of the fund to Rs 40,000 crores. Shivcharn Singh Brar, a farmer from Phullawal village in Muktsar district, said it was the need of the hour to spend money on boosting the irrigation facilities since it was the biggest worry of farmers. “Also, ‘Dedicated Micro Irrigation Fund’ to achieve ‘per drop more crop’ with an initial corpus of Rs 5,000 crore seems a good move as conventional sources of irrigation are coming under stress,” he said.
 
 Shivcharn, however, said the budget proposals about agriculture should be implemented across the states as envisaged by the Union government. “Unless that happens, the results will not be desirable,” he said.
 
