AHMEDABAD: Just days after two cops with Ranip police station —   and Kunjan Patel — were arrested for robbing Rs 47 lakh in old currency, another policeman,  , was held by   police for kidnapping a youth to recover a loan. The cop ran an   and was lending money at a usurious interest rate of 20% a month.

  With the involvement of cops in serious offences rising, city police faces a huge embarrassment. On Monday, Amrutji Khatuji, ASI with Odhav police station, was arrested for intoxication and making an indecent proposal to a woman in Bapunagar. The cops was thrashed by the woman in public.
 
 City police also came in for criticism when Raikhad police paraded and humiliated three alleged aides of bootleggers who had thrashed four cops on February 1.
 
 The arrest of another policeman for kidnapping and running a loansharking racket has raised serious questions on the credibility of the police department.
 
 Meanwhile Milan Kachela, 27, a native of Viramgam and a resident of Vastrapur, lodged a complaint stating that he had borrowed Rs 4.20 lakh from Viha Bharwad, a constable deployed at HQ Ahmedabad, at a monthly interest rate of 20%.
 
 “Kachela, who had run into losses in his garment business, is now working with a mobile service provider and used to pay Bharwad a weekly interest of Rs 15,000. However, according to the complainant, despite his father repaying Rs 4 lakh, Bharwad would harass him for further payments,” added a   station official.
 
 According to senior police officials, on Tuesday night Bharwad forced Kachela to sit on his bike and took him to a secluded place, Ghudia Farm in  . “The complaint says Bharwad threatened Kachela to repay him or face dire consequences and later confined him to a room with help of another accused, who Bharwad called ‘Mama’,” added a police official. Police sources said Kachela, who was locked in a room, managed to text his friend Ridham Patel about his location. “Patel approached us late on Tuesday night. We rushed to the location and rescued Kachela. We also arrested constable Bharwad, as he was with the victim,” said a senior police official.
 
 Police sources said they have written to police headquarters to suspend Bharwad.
 
 
