COIMBATORE: A year-after   won the   for  , another city boy,  , has been awarded the Oscar in the same category this year. Bhat, along with three others, will receive the award in February for the design and development of the ILM facial performance-capture solving system. 

 On January 4, the   announced 18 scientific and technical achievements represented by 34 individual recipients who will be honoured at the annual scientific and technical awards presentation on February 11 at Beverly Wilshire in Beverly Hills. 
 
 Kiran, 41, hails from Coimbatore. An alumnus of Stanes Anglo Indian School, Kiran completed his dual degree in mechanical and electrical and electronics engineering from  , Pilani. He then pursued his doctorate in computer science from Carnegie Mellon University, USA. 
 
 Around six years ago, Kiran, along with his colleagues, Michael Koperwas, Brian Cantwell and Paige Warner from ILM developed the facial performance-capture system. 
 
 "This was first used in Avengers for the character Hulk where we captured the expressions of Mark Ruffalo. A helmet fit with two cameras was placed on Ruffalo's head when he acted on the set. With this, we transferred Raffalo's expressions into the digital character," said Kiran through video-conferencing. 
 
 The technology was also used in other movies like Pirates of the Caribbean, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle, Warcraft, Star Wars Episode VII and Star Wars Rogue One. While in Avengers, Hulk was created with Mark Ruffalo, a person who is alive, in Star Wars Rogue One, Peter Cushing was recreated. 
 
 "We sought help from Guy Henry who studied Peter Cushing's work. He acted like him and we captured his expressions," said Kiran. 
 
 Kiran quit ILM a year ago, and started his own venture Loom.ai where he has built a technology for creating personalised and 3D digital avatars from photographs that can be plugged into games, messaging bots, social virtual reality and e-commerce. 
 
 "It has been nominated as one of the top five tech trends in USA for the year 2017 in NBC's Today show," said Kiran's father Srinivasa Bhat.
 
 Bhat is the eighth Indian to have won the prestigious Oscar award. When asked if such technology will be introduced in Indian cinema, Bhat said, "The technology is very expensive, and is pretty much restricted to big studios in the US. Also, there are some constraints with intellectual property. But, there is much talk about the technology, so if one is motivated, he/she can easily pick it up." 
 
 Asked if he would be working with Indian cinema industry any time soon, he said, "We are working on something, and you will see some results in a year or two." 
 
