NEW DELHI: No surprises were expected, and there were none, as the national selectors announced the 15-member team to defend the Champions Trophy in England next month.

 Some exciting performances by young, promising cricketers in the ongoing IPL had fuelled assumption in some sections that one of the newbies could be picked. However, the MSK Prasad-led selection committee made it clear that IPL couldn't be the premier platform for selection in top-flight cricket. Browse through the team sheet and you'll know why. In a departure from some of the selections made right after the IPL in the past few years, form and efficiency wasn't judged on what the players have done in their franchise colours. Hence,   held on to his Team India's blue gear despite his non-performance in IPL. Pacer   has been given the chance by selectors to lead the attack despite having not played in ODIs since the 2015 World Cup. Rahane and   will be the two reserve batsmen which meant there was no place for leftarm wrist spinner  .
 
  
  
 
 
 "We respect IPL but in the longer format, we have to also consider the English conditions that we will be playing in. Not just IPL, one needs to take into account the performance of last one year also for such a big tournament," Prasad said while asserting that Rahane was supposed to be the back-up opener to   and   when asked about   and his prolific run in the IPL.
 
 Contrary to what might have been thought, the process and preparation for the Champions Trophy was put in place months in advance. "Ashwin was never severely injured. He needed rest and his franchise was magnanimous to allow that. We even sought rest for   and  ," Prasad said.
 
 Ashwin has seldom bowled his full quota of white-ball overs in the last year and a half and that could have tempted the selectors to draft in Kuldeep. But Prasad offered a theory of calculated process. "Kuldeep would have gone purely on his ability and not because Ashwin is out of form. Ash win was rested in between the Test series and a couple of ODIs against England. It was all directed towards the Champions Trophy.
  
  
 "Anyway, we have Yuvraj and Kedar to bowl spin. So, whether we will play with two main spinners is a question. Kuldeep missed out narrowly," the chairman of the selectors said.
 
 The selectors have gone with a tried and tested team and one which Prasad believes is the best side. "Maybe, one place here and there," he added.
 
 
 
