History seems to be repeating itself. In  , V R Nedunchezhiyan, twice caretaker chief minister of Tamil Nadu, after the deaths of Annadurai and MGR, insisted in January 1988 that there was no such thing as interim CM. As he was elected CM after MGR’s death, he argued there was no need for the AIADMK to elect a new legislature party leader. He was supported by only one person — his brother Era Sezhiyan. 

 There are quite a few similarities between the current political situation and those post MGR’s death. P H Pandian, the controversial speaker who belonged to the   group, had claimed he had sky-high powers some years ago. He had sent an editor to jail for publishing a cartoon critical of MLAs and it was clear that Pandian would play with the rules to advance his cause. Janaki, supported by 97 MLAs, was sworn in by governor SL Khurana and asked to prove her majority through a confidence motion vote in the assembly within three weeks.
 
 Janaki was not an MLA, and the governor called for a confidence motion vote, not a composite floor test as was suggested by a few lawyers this time. Khurana’s then decision was hailed as the correct measure. If Janaki failed, he had the power to give the opportunity to other parties — including the Congress which had 61 MLAs then. 
 
 Over 30 of the 33 MLAs of the   group were whisked away to resorts in different states by KKSSR Ramachandran and S Thirunavukkarasu and brought back only for the confidence vote. On the designated day, instead of taking up the confidence vote, speaker PH Pandian said he had received the resignation of five Congress MLAs and would accept them. This created a furore. The AICC had announced that it wouldn’t back either faction of the AIADMK as their party favoured an undivided AIADMK. These five MLAs were supporters of Sivaji Ganesan, who despite being in the Congress, were seen as backed by Janaki’s group and the DMK. The Janaki faction and Pandian were charged with trying to split the Congress.
 
 As the Congress and the Jayalalithaa group were to vote against Janaki, the Janaki group was expected to lose the test. The DMK, which had a leaning towards the Janaki faction, was also not expected to publicly vote for it. At this juncture, Pandian introduced the method of on-the-spot expulsions. Each block of AIADMK MLAs was asked to vote and Jayalalithaa’s MLAs who didn’t vote for Janaki were immediately expelled. 
 
 This led to pandemonium in the assembly. A war of words and fisticuffs broke out, some grabbed the microphones and threw chairs at each other, papers on the tables were strewn, and each group challenged the other. Pandemonium and bedlam prevailed. Slogans were shouted for and against Pandian, Jayalalithaa and Janaki.
 
 The House was temporarily adjourned and MLAs of the Congress and the Jayalalithaa faction rushed to Raj Bhavan to protest against the speaker. Meanwhile, Pandian came back into the House and conducted a voice vote, declaring that Janaki with 97 votes had won the confidence vote with eight votes against her and three being neutral. The governor rejected the speaker’s version and called the situation a breakdown of the Constitution. The Union cabinet recommended dissolution of the assembly following which President’s rule was imposed in TN.
 
 Following clashes all over the state, the AIADMK headquarters in Chennai and party offices in several towns were sealed. The AIADMK symbol and party flag were frozen by the Election Commission. In the 1989 elections the Congress and three groups of the AIADMK contested on their own. The DMK with only one-third of the votes cast, won a majority, while the Jayalalithaa group got 27 seats, the Congress 26, and Janaki group 2 seats. 
 
 Today again, the AIADMK is split into two groups, while the DMK is breathing down their neck with 89 seats. If the Palaniswami government doesn’t get a majority of MLAs present and voting on its side, the government will fall. In such a situation, the governor may invite the DMK to form government, but if M K Stalin declined, the state will have to head for President’s rule.
 
 Even if Palaniswami wins on Saturday, the two AIADMK groups may continue the fight on the streets and in by-elections that could follow, especially if some MLAs are disqualified during or after the confidence vote. Can Pandian protest if his group’s MLAs are expelled now, citing his own precedent? An EPS victory could also mean the DMK will have to wait for a longer time to try and regain power. 
 
 (The writer is a veteran journalist)
 
 
