Nagpur: On the first day of winter exam, the Nagpur University courted controversy by making a U-turn on its promise and denying 34 students of Katol’s Nabira College the chance to appear in the exam.

 Last month, the exam section had written to the college informing about clean chit to all 36 students and that it would announce the withheld result soon. In the letter dated September 22 issued by assistant registrar Manohar Chimurkar, the exam section had not specified any date but stated that the result would be announced before the winter exam on vice chancellor’s directives.
 
 But, the students were baffled after exam section failed to announce the result even as the exam started on Tuesday. Students complained that in case they get a backlog in the previous exam, they will now have to wait till summer exam.
 
 Director of board of Examinations and Evaluations Neeraj Khaty said that the result can’t be announced before October 7. “The inquiry committee report will be placed before the Board of Examinations on October 7. Action against the college, principal and the clerk will be decided in the meeting. Till then, the students will have to wait,” Khaty said.
 
 Asked why then results of two students were announced while 34 were held back, Khaty pleaded ignorance. He also expressed helplessness about students not being able to appear in winter exam if they get a backlog. “They will have to wait till summer exam if need be, there is no choice,” he said.
 
 National Students’ Union of India, that has been backing the aggrieved students, warned of intense protest on Thursday over the exam section’s failure to announce the result. 
 
 On September 25, TOI had reported about the clean chit given to students by the panel led by dean of commerce faculty Vinayak Deshpande. Initially, the students were suspected of having used dummy candidates to clear backlog papers in the exam.
 
 On July 25, TOI had reported how the students were shocked to find different names on marklists issued against their roll numbers after their result was declared on June 13.
 
 Though the students had pointed out the blunder to the college and exam section, their appeals fell on deaf ears. A month later, the students along with NSUI activists approached TOI complaining about the dilly-dally by exam section, that is being handled by Pro-VC Pramod Yeole.
 
 Following TOI report, the NU set up a panel under Deshpande to investigate the issue.
 
 
