BENGALURU: Come Navratri and it's not just the Gujarati community which twirls to the beats of folk tunes and popular numbers.   have caught the fancy of revellers from across the city, regardless of their cultural backgrounds.

 From gated communities and welfare associations to star hotels, everyone seems to have been bitten by the dandiya and garba bug. To keep up with the growing demand, organizers have come up with innovative ways to keep the motley crowd enthused.
 
 Ekta Shah, a 43-year-old Gujarati singer, says the trend of disco jockeys performing at   has been catching up since last year.
 
 “I have been singing during Navratri for the past 15 years. I've noticed that people are getting more enthusiastic about the festivities and are even opting for fancier outfits. But on a larger scale, the inclusion of DJs in garba dandiya events is the latest fad. While they nor mally take the stage when the songs get over, last year I sang alongside a DJ,“ she said, adding that conventional Gujaratis don't like the interruption from DJs.
 
 Star hotels and other event organizers are cashing in on the trend. Sanctum at   is organizing Disco Dandiya with a special DJ to attract large crowds. While more than 400 people attend their Navratri bash each season, the theme changes every year.
 
 “Up till 9.30pm, people can sign up for the guest list in advance. After that, we levy a cover charge and give people a voucher that they can redeem at the party for food and drinks. We also provide them with dandiya sticks that they can take back home,“ said Liton Saha, the organizer, adding that 180 people have already signed up.
 
 But traditionalists like Krutarth Joshi, a 28-year-old resident of BTM Layout, said events held at places like Palace Grounds have not yielded to this pressure and continue to play only recorded music. “I have been attending garba and dandiya events at various places for the past five years. While the gastronomic experience has improved, Palace Grounds has not hosted a DJ,“ he said.
 
