September-end is still a few days away , but citizens are beginning to feel the characteristic warmth that usually arrives with October.

 Jalgaon, Lohegaon, Solapur and Pune--in that order--recorded the highest day temperatures among other major met department cities in central   and   on Monday .
 
 Day temperatures are rising in several locations in the state, particularly in central Maharashtra and Vidarbha. Though Jalgaon, Lohegaon and Pune recorded the highest day temperatures in central Maharashtra and Konkan, day temperature in   in Vidarbha soared beyond 35 degrees C, making it the hottest place in state on Monday .
 
 The day temperature reading at India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Shivajinagar observatory on Monday touched 32.3 degrees C on Monday while that at Lohegaon stood at 33 degrees C--both above normal by 2 degrees C and 3 degrees C respectively .
 
 Met department officials said the mercury may continue to rise further, as rain in Pune has receded and no monsoon system seems imminent to bring any relief.
 
 “What we are typically experiencing is a sample of the upcoming October heat.The cloud-cover has also changed. Low, moisture-laden clouds have been replaced by high-clouds that are higher up in the atmosphere.Low-clouds are the ones that usually bring rains. They also block the incoming solar radiation, thus cooling the earth's surface,“ the official said.
 
 The official said there may be chances of convective rain due to local heating in Pune in the next few days, like the rain witnessed in   and   recently .
 
 On September 20, temperature in Pune (Shivajinagar) was 23.3 degrees C, while it was 23.1 degrees C at Lohegaon--both around 7 degrees below the normal. In just a day, the day temperature at both locations rose to over 26 degrees C. The temperature has been rising ever since.
 
 The day temperature in Pune is likely to remain the same till September 27, after which a slight dip is expected owing to the possibility of a few spells of rain or thundershowers.
 
