CHENNAI: The   had surprise visitors in the gallery on Friday. Students and teachers from a school in   watched the proceedings in the assembly between 12 and 1pm. 

 As all eyes were glued to the assembly hall with AIADMK MLA K A Sengottaiyan moving the motion to thank Governor for his address to the assembly, 12 students (Classes 10 and 12) and three teachers from Odsherreds Efterskole, a boarding school in Denmark, sat looking at the happenings.
 
 The students are in India as part of an exchange programme with Tiruvallur-based Shri Niketan School. The students did not understand what Sengottaiyan said, but their teacher Thomas Bhadus told TOI that the assembly proceedings were vibrant and lively unlike what happened in   (Folketing). 
 
 “We were able to see the MLAs opposing each other, ministers and others tapping the desk and there were occasional laughter too. The session was lively. In Denmark, it would be much calmer and our parliament will be much somber,” said Bhadus, a head of the department in the school.
 
 The students came to the assembly on the invitation of school education minister K Pandiarajan. “From India the same number of school students will be visiting Denmark parliament and later both the groups will sit and discuss the functioning of the two democratic institutions and file a report,” said Bhadus.
 
 Soon after their time was over in the assembly, the students and teachers met Pandiarajan in his chamber.
 
 Rebecca Skytte Newtoennesen, one of the students from Denmark, said they had a 30-minute long interaction with the minister who asked them a number of questions regarding their first impressions, sports interests and attending the assembly session on Friday. 
 
 “We told him that we found the assembly session quite noisy and animated with the ministers banging the tables and getting up and raising their voices. However, I was surprised when the minister said it was very peaceful today compared to other days,” said Rebecca, laughing. 
 
 Another students, Sebastian Solesen Vigh, said he was surprised at how much the minister knew about Denmark. “He told us amazing stories about India and transformation in terms of its GDP growth. What I would remember most about this week-long trip is the hospitality from the Indian families who were very welcoming,” he said.
 
 
