

 
 
 
 Worry lines crease East Delhi resident Sangeeta Kumari’s face as she reluctantly explains the seismic changes in her life since November last year.   had upset her tentative plans to construct a house with the cash collected over several years of working in people’s homes. Barely had she come to terms with the shortage of cash that misfortune struck again.
 
 In February, she found   of Rs 100 and Rs 500 amounting to Rs 50,000 saved in an old trunk. Her heart sank at the sight. What could once have been a fortune for this economically backward family was of no use now. “My 60-year-old mother retired as a municipal worker and had saved this money over the years. We were shocked at losing such a large amount of money,’’ says Sheela, her daughter. Her mother had been unwell in recent months and even had to be hospitalised. It is an amount that she can ill afford to lose.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 On the evening of November 8, 2016 when PM Narendra Modi announced the abolition of high-denomination currency, Deepali Paul was on her way home from Tata Medical Centre at New Town, after a tiring day-long chemotherapy session of her husband who suffered from multiple myeloma.
 
 It was the taxi driver who first broke the news to her. He insisted that she pay him in hundred rupee notes. Deepali could not have cared less at that hour but her ailing 76-year-old husband Tapan took the news badly. He suddenly sat straight and started muttering, “Taka abar baatil hoi naki? Taka holo taka…” (How can currency become obsolete? Money is money…)
 
 The next day amidst a frantic hunt to find old notes stowed at home, Tapan became unusually agitated. “He started hiding the money we had withdrawn for his treatment and shouted that he would never want them exchanged. He feared losing the kitty he had saved,” recalls Deepali.
 
 She and her son were left with just one option — ‘stealing’ Tapan’s old notes. “While he was asleep we searched every possible spot where he could have stashed his savings and got them deposited in bank. On April 1, he left us. A few days later I found small bundles of notes wrapped in old newspaper amounting to Rs 16,000 in one of his favorite wooden boxes,’’ she says.
 
 Deepali admits that it’s not a big sum but it holds sentimental value for her. “My dying husband was just trying to save his hard-earned money for us. His cancer treatment barely left us with any savings. I wish I could get one last chance to exchange his money legally,” Deepali sums up.
 
 
 
 
 After demonetisation, Dr Nina Ghosh continued to take old notes as fees from patients till December-end, unwilling to put them through more trouble. Though she was able to deposit a significant sum in the bank, she missed out on Rs 20,000 kept in her cupboard as savings for a rainy day. “I heard rumours that there might be another window to exchange the money and so I sent across the amount to my brother in Delhi but to no avail,’’ says Dr Nina. She had planned to invest in diagnostic machines for her charitable clinic, but now she has been forced to put the plans on hold.
 
 
 
 
 Ameena Khan, a former Montessori teacher, suffers from Alzheimer’s disease. She lives alone on Mumbai’s Babulnath Road and is taken care of by house help. Every two months her daughter Farah Khan visits her from Delhi to pay the staff and stock provisions. “When demonetisation was announced, I went to Mumbai and collected whatever money I found in my mother’s house and exchanged it,’’ says Farah. But that was not all.
 
 “During a visit in February I found Rs 10,000 lying in one of the many hand bags owned by my mother. I started checking other bags too and old notes came tumbling out...in total I found old currency worth Rs 90,000,’’ says Farah.
 
 Not one to give up, she decided to try her luck exchanging the notes. “I took a doctor’s certificate confirming that my mother suffers from Alzheimer’s. I told the bank official, ‘my mother does not recognise me, can’t remember my name, how can she remember where she stowed away her savings?’ His response was, ‘phad ke phenk do’ (tear up the notes). I was so upset. It is my mother’s hard-earned money not junk,” says Farah.
 
 
 
 
 An executive working in Dubai, Umesh Nayak, returned to India with his family to exchange Rs 39,000 of demonetised currency. When he visited the RBI at Bengaluru in March he was told that the office was not authorized to exchange notes. He tried his luck at Mumbai RBI but the officials there demanded a certificate issued by customs and immigration, confirming that he had brought the notes and that this was the first time he was coming to India after demonetisation. He didn’t have that. “The government and customs did not spread awareness. How will common citizens know about this rule?” claims Nayak. “I hope they give us a chance to deposit and recover,” he adds.
 
 
 
 
 
