IMPHAL: As the economic blockade enters its 114th day on Wednesday, chief election commissioner   said the   is fully prepared to conduct free, fair and peaceful election in Manipur despite the   (UNC)-sponsored blockade. 

 The relentless blockade, called in protest against the creation of new districts by the Okram Ibobi Singh-led government, has disrupted supplies of fuel and essential commodities to the state. The blockade has also affected the poll campaign.
 
 Addressing a press conference here, Zaidi said the EC has reviewed the situation in the state. "We are committed to hold free, fair and peaceful polls," he said. 
 
 The CEC said polling officials are ready and EC has sufficient petrol and diesel in its stock. He did not divulge the number of security personnel to be deployed for the polls, but said adequate forces will be available for both phases. When asked about the militants' attack on the security convoy of deputy chief minister Gaikhangam in the hills, he said the EC will further strengthen law and order machineries in the state. He added that security agencies have been directed to enforce effective area domination.
 
 Zaidi said adequate central armed police forces will be deployed in advance for confidence-building measures to instil faith and confidence in the voters. The central forces will carry out daily route marches and review security measures with district's deputy commissioners and SP. 
 
 As part of security measures, nakas were placed at strategic points and security personnel are carrying out surprise checks. A hundred mobile nakas have been established. One helicopter will be used for medical emergency evacuation from the first phase polling on March 4 till the counting day on March 11. Adequate boats will be provided for river patrolling.
 
 He said the last assembly polls in 2012 saw about 80% turnout and hoped it will be higher this time. Appealing to the people to cooperate with EC machinery, he said, "The people of Manipur should demonstrate to the world their resolve in strengthening electoral democracy in the state."
 
 "We hope that no voter shall be left behind in 2017 election," he added. The CEC said all officials, both civil and police, should be neutral, fearless, unbiased and independent while carrying out their duties. "All officials are under watch. We will come down heavily if there are any complaints," he added.
 
 EC has asked the state election machinery to keep strict vigil on communally sensitive areas and take strict action against those who try to disturb communal harmony. This time, 18 assembly constituencies have been identified as 'sensitive' while 352 villages and localities were classified as 'vulnerable'. Of the total 2,794 polling stations, 837 have been identified as critical polling stations "Special security arrangements have been made in these areas to enable voters to cast their votes," he said.
 
 EC said there are 529 polling stations under 'vulnerable' areas and they have identified 6,345 persons for causing vulnerability. Of them, action has also taken against 5686 persons.
 
