NEW DELHI: The opening moves of the UP elections were fraught for the BJP. The party faced a restless Jat constituency and   was a real threat in this neck of the woods. But paradoxically, the hype whipped up by the   ended up helping   safely negotiate the treacherous terrain. 

 The newly-minted SP-Congress pact prevented west UP's large Muslim population from rallying behind BSP, a development that would have spelt trouble for BJP. This, with discontent in the Jat ranks, could have hurt the saffron campaign.
 
 Though estimates vary, BJP chief  's intervention with Jat leaders prevented large-scale desertions while several other communities, barring Muslims, backed the party. So, BJP emerged with a lead that only grew stronger as the election progressed across the state, with the final victory setting the scene for the party's bid to defend its Gujarat crown for a record sixth term.  's success in retaining Gujarat in 2012 set him on course for the prime minister-ship, and BJP hopes that he will repeat the feat.
 
 After the first two phases, Modi began to step up his tempo and pressed harder on the theme of "discrimination" in SP's governance by suggesting power supply during Ramzan was more regular than for Hindu festivals. He then swung out at SP again, with his comparison of government assistance to burial grounds as opposed to cremation arenas. Thereafter, Shah used the "KASAB" formulation to attack SP. 
 
 Finally, when questions were raised about Modi's presence in his constituency Varanasi for three consecutive days holding roadshows, BJP responded by terming it a "victory procession" as party seniors grew increasingly confident that the party was home and dry. 
 
 Modi powered ahead, gunning for a sweep in the final 40 seats, proclaiming that the election was already in the bag and he was looking for bonus points. The results made it quite plain that speculation that the party had done badly in the first two phases was completely off the mark.
 
 At Fatehpur, Modi spoke about 'kabristan' and 'shamshan' , and while hinting at preferential distribution of amenities, the PM brought up his " sabka saath sabka vikas " slogan. BJP's lead began to grow from the third phase in the SP bastions of central UP, where it became clear that the internal feud was hurting the party. 
 
 
