Nagpur: Several new voters will not be able to exercise their franchise in the upcoming Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections, slated on February 21. Corporators and politicians of all parties have alleged that names of many people who applied for registration in electoral rolls are missing from the ward-wise voters’ list finalized by the civic body. The NMC, on Saturday, published the final voters’ list according to the 38 new wards after taking approval of the State Election Commission (SEC). This list will go for elections and no changes can be made from now on. Now, the NMC will prepare booth-wise voters’ list and publish it on February 8. The voters cannot have their say on the booth-wise voters’ list. Shiv Sena corporator Alka Dalal told TOI that names of around 2,000-3,000 people who submitted forms for registration in electoral rolls, did not appear in the NMC’s list. “I am going door-to-door and meeting people in ward no. 21. There are two types of complaints by the people, of which many are related to the new voter registration. It is a big loss as the the votes of new voters, who basically are youths, mean a lot to me,” she said. Vicky Kukreja, BJP’s North Nagpur president, said names of 2,500 new voters in ward no. 1 are missing from the list. “I personally looked after the registration of new voters. As many 3,600 people from the ward submitted forms during the drive, that too within the deadline. However, the names of only 1,100 people appeared in the list. We have receipts of the forms. I also met district administration officials and lodged a complaint, but in vain,” he said. “Names of persons who passed away are in the list of ward no. 31. Also, one can find names of persons who shifted to other places. Unfortunately, the names of many new voters are not in the list despite completing all formalities,” said Congress corporator Yogesh Tiwari. Claiming that names of 250-300 new voters are missing from the list of ward no. 2, BSP corporator Gautam Patil said, “I raised objection with the NMC recently. But the civic body said only objections related to placement in the list were being accepted,” he said. “Teachers were appointed for the drive, who took no interest as they were given two works at a time. We don’t know if the forms reached the collector’s office,” said NCP corporator Raju Nagulwar, adding that around 1,000 new voters from ward no. 32 will not be able to exercise their franchise. An NMC official said the district administration was the authority for registration of new voters. “The NMC has only prepared ward-wise voters’ list on the basis of list given by the district administration,” he said. But collector Sachin Kurve denied any lapse by the district administration. “We received 1.24 lakh forms during the drive of which 90,000 were related to new registration. We approved 86,000 and rejected/kept pending 4,000 for lack of proof. People should thoroughly check the list,” he said. Now, the chances of complaints by voters in large numbers on the polling day cannot be ruled out. The situation was similar in the 2012 NMC elections as well as Lok Sabha and assembly elections of 2014.