NAGPUR: The Nagpur University has finally repealed the controversial Direction 10 and notified Direction 15 for reorganizing the four different faculties created after promulgation of the Maharashtra Public Universities Act 2016.

 With this, the nomination of new dean of interdisciplinary studies is likely to be done on Monday. Sources say it is also likely that dean of science faculty  , who would soon superannuate, will be replaced.
 
 Vice Chancellor SP Kane told TOI that it is now up to the registrar when he issues the notification. When asked if two deans would be nominated, he said, “Everything will be clear on Monday.”
 
 The notification for new direction too generated controversy as much as the repealed one since its copy is yet to be made available under the regular section on the website. The NU has launched a separate portal for election and the direction is available there.
 
 Following recommendation of the Mali committee, the state government had asked all universities to have uniform composition of faculties.
 
 In a series of reports, TOI had reported how the NU had placed pharmaceutical studies under the faculty of interdisciplinary studies.   was made dean of this faculty much to the chagrin of other deserving and senior candidates. The students and faculty members wanted pharmacy under science faculty as it ruined their career prospects in the relevant field. 
 
 On July 12, TOI reported that Kakde was lobbying hard to remain a dean and that head of education department Rajashree Vaishnav could be named as dean of interdisciplinary studies.
 
 Kakde, a close aide of Yeole, has been accused of nepotism by the officiating principal of Agnihotri College Wardha,   Mundhada. The latter had claimed that Kakde didn’t dissociate himself from the special task committee while his son was appearing in the same exam.
 
 Sources said the VC is under pressure to name Kakde as the dean of science faculty as the Pro-VC had made it a prestige issue. “The demand to bring pharmaceutical sciences under science faculty hasn’t gone down well with Yeole. But, it remains to be seen what step the VC takes,” sources said.
 
