JALANDHAR: Stating that a perception was being created that contest in the   was triangular,   deputy leader in Rajya Sabha, Anand Sharma, alleged that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was here only to divide the anti-incumbency votes to benefit the ruling SAD-BJP alliance.

 “RSS, BJP and   were together in launching the agitation against the UPA government. Now also, AAP is contesting elections only in those three states -Punjab, Gujarat and Goa -where BJP is in power. The Congress has strong potential to return to power as the incumbent governments are very unpopular,“ Sharma, said while addressing a press conference here on Monday.
 
 “Why has AAP not gone to contest in Bihar and West Bengal? Why are they not going to Uttar Pradesh?
 There only agenda is to divide anti-incumbency votes and benefit BJP or its alli es,“ he said.
 
 He said the Congress was in competition at every seat in Punjab out of which SADBJP was its key rival in several constituencies. “AAP is in our direct competition only at some seats,“ said the former Union minister. Asked if the Congress would announce Captain Amarinder Singh as its chief ministerial candidate in Punjab, he said a decision would be taken soon.
 
 Asked what was the hitch when the entire campaign was woven around Amarinder, Sharma said, “I can only say that the decision would be announced soon.“
 
 He also flayed the Union government for abolishing import duty on wheat and said it was against the interests of the farmers of the country, especially Punjab. On the issue of merchandise exports, he said it would be an achievement of the   government if it would be able to take these anywhere near the quantum what was being exported during the previous UPA regime.
 
 AIIMS study on drugs quoted
 
 Congress leader Anand Sharma cited figures of a study by AIIMS on prevalence of drugs in Punjab, stating that there were 1.25 lakh heroin addicts and 2.33 lakh other addicts in the state. In past, Cong leader Rahul Gandhi came under attack for saying that 70% of youths of Punjab were on drugs.
 
