NEW DELHI: “This might be the last time we see him in his home,” said Khushi, a friend of  , when the teenager’s body reached his house from the mortuary on Monday. Khushi fondly remembered the good times she had spent with the Class XII student, who was killed in a hit-and-run case late on Sunday night. “None of us liked to go out much after school hours, so we mostly ended up coming to Atul’s house either for group studies or to spend some free time,” said the grief-stricken girl.

 And yet just hours earlier, nobody could have imagined the young student’s life would be cut short by a   ramming into his scooter and killing him. Monday was supposed to be the first day of Atul’s final year in school. A month short of his 17th birthday, the boy was eager to meet his friends after a two-week school break.
 
 “He had his bag all packed, the new books neatly arranged inside,” said a despairing Ruchi Arora, Atul’s elder sister, a teacher. “His uniform was crisply ironed. I had got a new pair of shoes for him, but he never got to wear them.” 
 
 Atul’s father, who is partially paralytic, is an employee of Delhi Development Authority, while his mother teaches in a private school in Punjabi Bagh. Atul was the only son among their children.
 
 Ruchi pointed at the students gathered in the house, proof, she said, of the affection that his schoolmates had for her brother. Many of them had only learnt of Atul’s death when an announcement was made in the morning assembly on Monday. “The news left us shocked and shattered,” said Sumedha. “We requested the school authorities to let us come here and bid a final goodbye to our friend.” Sumedha has been a close friend of Atul for 12 years. “We have a bucketful of memories together,” she said, clearly unable to grasp the senselessness of the incident. “I still cannot come to terms with what has happened and I refuse to believe that we will not see Atul again.”
 
 Just minutes before his life was snuffed out, Atul had spoken to his sister. “He was a spiritual boy and had gone to an ashram nearby for seva,” said Ruchi. “At 10:15pm, he called me to say that he would first drop one of his friends at his house before returning home.”
 
 Saying she had often been driven to places in the locality by Atul, Ruchi insisted that her brother was a very safe rider. However, she confirmed that the teenager neither had a driving licence at the time of the accident nor had he been wearing a helmet.
 
 
