CHANDIGARH: Two senior bureaucrats of the Haryana government were likely to face contempt proceedings for not removing illegally constructed   in Pinjore, near  , even three years after directions of the court.

 According to the high court order released on Wednesday, the high court has asked senior IAS officers Arun Kumar Gupta and T L Satyaprakash, who are posted as principal secretary and director of town and country planning department, Haryana, respectively, to present themselves before the court on July 14 and file a reply as to why contempt of court proceedings should not be initiated against them.
 
 The court has found that apparently the officers of the state government “are in collusion and connivance“ with the school management.
 
 On March 3, 2014, a division bench of the high court asked the department of the town and country planning to take action against the illegal constructions made by the Alpine   that runs the school and any other organisation in the area.
 
 The school is located in Bhawana village near Pinjore and is run by Sneh Education and Research Society.
 
 The society had constructed the school without taking permission from the town and country planning department.
 
 They , however, had approached the court after notices were issued by the department for action against the illegal construction and for approval of building plans. The court had, however, dismissed their plea. The high court, dismissing the plea of the society , said, “The petitioner contrarily created its own empire by way of a school building and several other structures in a devil-may-care manner without even applying for statutory permission, what to talk of obtaining such permission before the start of construction“, the court observed, dismissing their plea.
 
 Even Supreme Court upheld these orders in August 2014.
 
 But the department had not removed the school building despite categorical directions of court. The matter again reached the court in the wake of an intervener application filed by Shri Bhagwat Geeta Founda tion (society) Bhawana, which erected unauthorized construction in the area. Applicant alleged that despite court directions, Alpine society is unwilling to vacate the school building and obstructing its demolition.
 
 Miffed over the inaction, a division bench headed by Justice Surya Kant ordered, “It appears the officers of the state government are in collusion and connivance with the management of the society as well as one Sneh Education and Research Society .“
 
 Issuing notice to both the officers and management of school and the village head, the bench directed all of them to be present in court on the date fixed to show cause as to why contempt of court proceedings be not initiated against them.
 
