SURAT: Mob frenzy at the textile markets once again forced the city police to remain a mute spectator. City police commissioner Satish Sharma had ensured deployment of police personnel at Surat Textile Market (STM) on Ring Road, but the angry mob gheraoed them in small alleys of the market and forced a few traders to shut their shops on Saturday afternoon. 

 Following the assurance given to around 150-odd textile traders at STM who wanted to open their shops amid the ongoing agitation against Goods and Services Act (GST), Satish Sharma visited the market and ensured that the traders got protection from the mobs. A couple of traders showed their courage and opened their shops but the mob charged inside the market and protested against the shop owners. 
 
 The agitators collected coins and threw inside the shops. The agitators called the traders ‘bhikharis’ (beggars). 
 
 Over 1,000 people thronged  , a shop owned by  , who was the first to open the shop at STM market. It was getting difficult for the police personnel to control the frenzied crowds. After more than two hour long drama, the agitators started throwing coins at the shop that were open. Sensing trouble, the shop owner decided to shutdown.
 
 Meanwhile, STM management repeatedly on loudspeaker urged the shop owners to shutdown their shops to avoid any untoward incident. 
 
 Narendra Saboo told TOI, “We have come here from Rajasthan to do business. We can’t keep our shops shut and wait for the government to announce relief under GST. Thus, we have sought police protection to open our shops. We are with the traders agitating against GST. But this is not the way. Not a single person protesting outside my shop is a trader. All are anti-social elements. The police were unable to protect us.” 
 
 Dhiru Shah of   said, “The agitation has been literally taken over by the anti-social elements. The leaders of Textile GST Sangarsh Samiti (TGSS) are not seen anywhere. If this continues for long, then none of the traders will be able to open their shops. I think, the police need to impose section 144.” 
 
 Vikas Aggarwal, another trader, said, “The business season is just slipping away as we have to cater to the orders for Durga Puja, Raksha Bandhan and Diwali. If the agitation has been taken over by the anti-social elements, the police should identify their leaders.”
 
 A senior police officer said, “There are clear orders to protect the traders from mob frenzy. There are no orders of lathicharge. We had a hard time controlling the mob at the STM. The agitators do not fear our presence.” 
 
 
