Despite spending a whopping Rs 432.58 crore, 95   proposals in the city are gathering dust. These plots include  , gardens, recreation grounds and parks that are reserved in the DP, but are privately owned. Ideally, it should take two years for the   to acquire these   but the proposals have been pending since 20 years. The procedural delays and lapses have led to loss of precious green space, in a city already starved of open spaces.

 For every plot it wants to acquire, the BMC submits a proposal and 50% of the cost of the land to the city collector’s office. The rest is paid after the acquisition. 
 
 This information came to light after Anil Galgali, an RTI activist, filed an RTI query and sought replies on all the open space reserved plots that needed to be acquired by the collector.
 
 Mumbai Mirror learnt that the plot acquisition hurdles were mainly due to lengthy procedural delays not just by the collector’s office but also of the acquiring body (BMC).
 
 A senior official from the suburban collector’s office said, “The BMC doesn’t attend meetings regarding land acquisitions to co-ordinate with us. When we ask for 50% cost of land they don’t pay the amount. I have 15 proposals with me and BMC has not paid for nine proposals.”
 
 When the senior official was queried about why the collector has failed to acquire land despite BMC paying Rs 432.58 crore, she said, “Once we get the money, we issue a notification and carry out a joint measurement of land. The area to be acquired should match with the area we survey. There are mismatches and this causes delays.”
 
 A senior civic official from BMC’s Development Plan department said, “There are cases with title issues, legal disputes and demarcation issues. In some cases plots are encumbered with encroachments. Just because 95 plots weren’t acquired doesn’t mean BMC hasn’t acquired any plot in the last 20 years.”
 
 Once the purchase notice is issued by the land owner to acquiring body, then the land acquisition procedure should be initiated before two years from the date of issue, otherwise the reservation gets cancelled.
 
 Nayana Kathpalia, trustee, NAGAR, an NGO fighting for protection of open spaces in the city said, “At present, we have 0.24 sq. mt. open space per person, when the law states we need to have at least 10-12 sq. mt. This is a callous act of not doing their best to help a choking Mumbai.”
 
 Galgali said that the BMC and collector should coordinate and allow people to make the best use of these reserved plots in the Development Plan as there’s a severe dearth of open spaces in Mumbai.
 
