Bhopal: Jolted by around 12 cases of   of D Ed, BBA and MBA,   launched a probe. After 2010 and 2012, this is the third time when the university stumbled upon fake marksheets. 

 University registrar UN Shukla said the issue came to light after companies, where students applied for job, approached the university for verification of documents. Shukla said candidates presented these marksheets and degrees.
 
 As a routine process, companies send documents to the university for verification. Sources said most of fake marksheets and degrees were of bachelor of business administration (BBA) and diploma in education (D Ed). 
 
 A couple of BBA mark-sheets carried the logo of Barkatullah University Institute Technology (BUIT), which is an engineering college. In reality, the BUIT does not run under-graduate course in business administration and therefore such documents are fake, said an official without quoting his name. 
 
 The university got few fake marksheets wherein names of colleges were mentioned and in some instances, DEd marksheets carried the name of the university, raising doubts about source of origin. The fact is Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education (MPBSE) issues D Ed marksheets. 
 
 Taking a serious view of the issue, university authorities launched the probe, recently. Registrar Shukla suspected role of a gang behind it. As for the action against the colleges, which issued marksheets, the registrar said, “The colleges which issued such fake marksheets will have to come clear on it. We can’t ignore such institutions.” If an involvement of any college is found out, it can even lose affiliation.”
 
 This is the third time when the university came across such incidents. After a major racket of fake marksheets was busted in 2010 in post-graduate diploma in computer application (PGDCA) course, the university started uploading details of marksheet on its portal whenever as and when it comes across such incident.
 
 In 2012, the university had recommended a comprehensive high-level inquiry to look into the similar issue. At that time, the university had found a fake BSc mark-sheet issued by a college in Sironj of Vidisha district. That marksheet was presented by a candidate while applying for a job in Rajkot. 
 
 
