KOLKATA: After the higher education department’s prod and   Partha Chatterjee’s instruction to   to probe allegations of   intake above the sanctioned strength, the varsity has now drawn up an exhaustive policy to put an end to the irregularities from the coming academic session.

 In the syndicate meeting (the highest administrative decision-making body) on Tuesday, the CU has decided to ask the colleges to submit details on admissions and also justify if they have admitted students in excess in the 2016-2017 academic session.
 
 “From the 2017-2018 academic year, we will also ask colleges to mention the number of seats next to the subjects while advertising for admissions. This will ensure transparency. Many unknown and lesser-known colleges avoid mentioning the seat strength in major and pass courses to avoid detection,” said a source in the CU.
 
 He added, “The colleges will henceforth be asked to upload the names of the candidates admitted in every course immediately after publication of each list. Though the admission process has been made online in many colleges till now, the names and other details of the students, who have finally taken up the course, are not mentioned.”
 
 Also, going a step ahead, CU has decided that on the last date of admissions as prescribed by the university, colleges will have to upload the final list of candidates who have finally taken up the course and also mention vacancies, if any. Only then, these candidates, whose names figure in the last uploaded admission list, will be registered.
 
 In order to deal with the problem and allegations levelled against several colleges from time to time, CU had earlier proposed to bring the entire registration process online.
 
 “Till now, the individual colleges collect registration forms from the university and then the students fill up the same. The colleges then submit the same to the university with attestation. CU wants this entire system to be made online,” said a source in the university.
 
 Shiuli Sarkar, principal of Lady Brabourne College, welcomes the move. “The college principals should stick to their registered norms. They know exactly the sanctioned strength. It is difficult for universities to keep a tab. If CU feels that there are irregularities then inspection should be done,” she said.
 
 The higher education department may also seek the report prepared by a private consulting firm on the Rs 786 crore “financial irregularities” which had rocked the Calcutta University in 2015.
 
 
