AJMER: Donations worth crores of rupees are offered at the dargah of   in Ajmer every year. However, there is no official record of the offerings pocketed by the shrine. Reason: A major chunk of these offerings exchange hands directly between devotees and khadims, despite the  , run by the ministry of minority affairs, putting up banners at various spots asking devotees to put offerings in donation boxes. 

 In 2014, the Supreme Court had directed to form a system of counting and distributing the offerings. Even the Central government was keen on keeping a record of the donation money, which is tax-free, coming to the shrine.
 
 According to sources, 15 donation boxes installed inside the dargah premises were opened after two months by the dargah committee recently. A paltry amount of Rs 7,50,000 was recovered from them. “The devotees are not aware enough to put the offerings directly into these boxes so that it becomes countable. No committee in the dargah urges devotees to put donations in the boxes,” said a source.
 
 After the verdict of Supreme Court in the legal battle between dargah dewan and khadims, the dargah committee in August 2014 had installed donation boxes with banners requesting devotees to put all offerings in them. But later both parties arrived at a compromise, according to which the khadims (priests) give Rs 2 crore to the dargah dewan per year. Thus, the donation boxes lost relevance.
 
 “It is an old practice here that the khadim who offers prayers on behalf of the devotees coming to dargah, gets the donation amount directly and, therefore, there is no record of it as such,” a source said.
 
 At the time of yearly Urs, the  , organization of khadims, tenders the contract of ‘deg’ (cauldron) in crores of rupees. Here too, they accept offerings directly. “There should be an account of the money coming to the dargah, even though it is tax-free,” said an official source.
 
 A committee source said that their aim is to provide facilities to the devotees and they have no mediatory role in offerings. After SC orders, the committee had started keeping a record of the offerings to divide between the khadims and dargah dewan. However, later on a compromise was achieved between the two parties.
 
 There are two types of boxes inside the dargah premises. The green boxes belong to the dargah committee. The money that is collected in them is used for the development of dargah while yellow boxes, which were installed in 2014, were for the khadims and the dewan. But the actual offerings coming to the dargah still go uncalculated.
 
