ABU DHABI: It is 12 in the afternoon, and the eve of Stage 1 of the 2017  . It's drizzling and the riders have just got done with their first practice at the Yas Marina Circuit. Alberto Contador, Nairo Quintana, Vincenzo Nabili and Marcel Kittel have all completed their laps and are heading back to the hotel.

  is an exception. He is walking back to the circuit accompanied by a fan, who on winning a certain competition has been granted his wish of riding with the decorated Briton. The drizzle stops, and the two complete a 5.5km lap. Much to the fan's credit, he finishes in admirable shape.
 
 "Mark was a gentleman; he's just a really nice, normal, down to earth guy, and he didn't go too fast for me, so we could chat the whole way around," the fan told Emirates Motor Company. "I got to ask him about his plans for the season, and as usual, he is looking forward to the Tour de France, which is his big goal again this season. But, he also talks very highly of the Abu Dhabi event and the UAE in general as he loves it here."
 
 That's Cavendish for you; by all assumptions the finest sprinter the world of professional   has seen. He has 30 individual stage wins at the Tour de France, is the holder of 48 Grand Tour stage victories - third in the all-time list - and a two-time gold medallist at the World Championships. But more importantly, despite his growing list of accomplishments, Cavendish remains a humble champion.
 
 At the same time, he has doubters; those who believe that the second stage of his career will not bring him as much success as the first. Recently, he won Stage 1 of the Abu Dhabi Tour and led the GC before   pipped him at the third stage - the stiff climb of the Jebel Hafeet. Although throughout the event, he looked at ease with his sprints. While fingers continue to be pointed at him, Cavendish's current form and his performance in the only World Tour in the Middle East dismisses the otherwise common notion that his best years are behind him.
 
 "I'm happy to have gotten a win in the first stage - at the Al-Marina Island. I got to lead general classification for two days, wear the ready jersey for two days," Cavendish told 
  in an exclusive interview at the end of the Abu Dhabi Tour. "[I] would have loved to get another win, but I was happy to have finished first, second and third in the three flat stages. [It] serves as a wonderful warm-up for a competitive season that lies ahead."
 
  
  
 
 
 Cavendish happens to be the Brand Ambassador of the Abu Dhabi Tour, whose third edition garnered terrific numbers across the globe. Having been granted the status of a World Tour race for the next three years, its website received 2.9 lakh views per day between February 23-26 and the number of people to follow its Facebook page increased by 27 percent as compared to last year.
 
 Besides hosting 156 world-class participants across the globe, another key reason behind the UAE capital organising a four-stage Professional Cycling Tour is the government's plan to double the number of cycle paths in the city by 2020.
 
 "Even though it's only in its third year, the Abu Dhabi tour is already a World Tour. You've got world-class riders coming along, with four wonderful and competitive stages, including the beautiful Jebel Hafeet. The tracks are wonderful and the city of Abu Dhabi just brings so much to you as a rider. This has some of the strongest group of competitors you'll see all year in any race." Cavendish said.
 
 "We had a great show and a strong turnout; we ended the season today at a spectacular circuit at Yas Marina. It was special. Being the brand ambassador, I can confidently say that this will develop in to an even bigger phenomenon in the future now that it has been granted a World Tour status."
 
 Despite featuring 156 riders from 32 countries, the Abu Dhabi Tour did not feature representation from India, where Cavendish rode during the 2010 Commonwealth Games. While there has been a growth in Indian cycling with Deborah Herold putting the country on the map by sealing the historic Track Cycling World Championship in January 2016, the overall scenario doesn't seem to live up to the promise.
 
 "The UCI is doing quite a bit now for the emergence of cycling in different parts of the world. In fact I was following the Asian Track Cycling Championship in India last week and as a matter of fact, a couple of my friends participated in it too," Cavendish said. "During the 2010 Commonwealth Games, I witnessed some wonderful young cycling talents, and I remember it being a wonderful experience for me. So I definitely think India has quite the scope for cycling and maybe it's just a matter of time that we see their cyclists coming through the ranks."
 
 Within his remit as the ambassador for Tour, Cavendish's stature and superstar status drew attention and thus enhanced the credibility of this burgeoning event. Having missed its inaugural edition with a shoulder injury and winding up as winner of the second and fourth stage last October, Cavendish picked up where he left off. But does being the face of the event not put extra load on his game?
 
 "A little bit, yeah. I want to do well you know. It's kind of like a home race for me now since I'm the brand ambassador, though I'd have wanted to do well even without that tag. So it does add that extra bit pressure but that's only on myself. It's not from anywhere else. I want to be successful here not just because I love this place but also because I represent the race as well," Cavendish revealed.
 
  
  
 
 
 Given that three of the four stages were tailor-made for sprint, the race witnessed some of cycling's quickest, which further meant the renewal of the much-anticipated rivalry between Cavendish and Germany's Marcel Kittel. After almost a year-long gap, the two finally came head-to-head during the Dubai Tour kicked off last month, which Kittel won while Cavendish faced mechanical gear problems that cost him a stage win.
 
 In Abu Dhabi last week, Cavendish drew first blood in stage one, and Kittel made a remarkable comeback to win the second, once again making the battle between the two supreme sprinters a mouth-watering one. Kittel has in the past played down his rivalry with Cavendish, but insisted on creating his own legacy, even if that means he has to outdo Cavendish's records on the path to achieving it.
 
 "I think there's this mutual friendship and respect that we have for each other, because we both are aware of what it takes to excel in a sport like this. Also there are a lot of sacrifices involved, which I believe forms an unknown rapport between two athletes from the same sport. It's not just me and Marcel. Every rider I believe feels the same. We all share a level of camaraderie with each other," Cavendish said.
 
 "I'm not too sure I'll be having a drink with Marcel or something like that, and I don't think neither of us has that obligation. But that said, I've always liked certain skills of his. He's a tremendous athlete and I've always believed that he has that extra power that gives him slight advantage over the rest."
 
 Although beyond the world of healthy competition, the sprints, the titles and all his headline-grabbing acts, another sport that sets Cavendish's pulse racing also involves a two-wheeler, gears and racing tracks.
 
 "I'm a massive Motor-racing fan, motorbikes and MotoGP. In fact, it is always fun riding at the Yas Marina Circuit which is also the host to the Abu Dhabi F1 event. After cycling, Motorsports is what I'm obsessed with," he said. "Being a Brit, often people ask me why I'm not into something like cricket much but that's because back in the UK, cricket is somewhat like an upper class sport. I was have always belonged from a working-class background and I never got to play cricket much while growing up."
 
 With an eye on the Tour de France, Cavendish now heads back to Italy to start his preparations for the European season, after which he will begin his workload for the Swiss Classics. It's fair enough to say he will be tested by Chris Froome even though he will have reasons to smile owing to an increase in the number of sprint stages. At 31, these aren't his prime years, but Cavendish has always been a realist and come July 1, it will be his chance to once again prove his detractors wrong.
 
