PATNA: Even as the principals of constituent colleges under different universities in the state have girded up their loins against the recent move to declare them ‘non-teaching staff’ and make them retire at the age of 62 years, they are unlikely to get any immediate relief as the existing laws are not in their favour.
 
  Academics feel unless the Bihar State Universities (Amendment) Act, 2012 and the   (Amendment) Act, 2012 are modified by the state legislature and the   2010 are also changed accordingly, the principals would have to retire at 62, instead of 65 years fixed for teachers. And, these necessary changes in the Acts and regulations will take a long time. By then, several principals would have to call it a day.
  
  The preamble to the 2012 Acts states that the amendments is intended to conform to the   Regulation, 2010, which, in its Para-I clearly defines that there shall be only three designations in respect of teachers, namely, assistant professors, associate professors and professors, in universities and colleges.
  
  Then, para-8 of the UGC Regulations is clear that the age of superannuation up to 65 years is meant for those involved in classroom teaching. Moreover, the principal is not entitled to supervise research scholars under PhD regulations, whereas all categories of teachers are entitled to supervise the research scholars as part of their academic duty of ‘advanced teaching and research’.
  
  Justifying the superannuation of principals at 62, PU English department head and former   member Shiva Jatan Thakur observed that even though principals are appointed with over 10 years of teaching experience, it does not entitle them to claim themselves as ‘teachers’. The registrar, pro-vice-chancellor and vice-chancellor are also appointed on the basis of their over 10 years of teaching experience, but they all are non-teaching employees of the university.
  
  Thakur maintained that the PU letter to the chancellor dated February 21, 2017 to recommend the superannuation of   principal after attaining the age of 62 is legally justified within the spirit of Section 2(r) and Section 64 of the Patna University Act, 1976, as amended up to date.
