NEW DELHI: Thailand’s popular beach town Phuket could soon be connected through a direct flight away from Delhi and Mumbai. Thai Smile, a fully-owned full service subsidiary of Thai Airways, is planning to launch nonstops from these two metros to Phuket. While the flight from Delhi may start in May, the Mumbai connection is expected to start later this year.

 “Thailand has utilised its bilaterals for operating flights to Indian metros and next month, the two countries will hold a dialogue on enhancing the flying rights. Once that happens, we are looking at a Delhi-Phuket-Bangkok-Delhi routing from May 1 and a similar routing from Mumbai. Indian travellers love to shop and that is why we have a Bangkok stopover on the way back along with an enhanced economy class baggage allowance of 30 kg (for economy flyers) on our flights to and from India. We are looking at a Delhi-Phuket flight thrice a week to begin with,” Thai Smile CEO   told TOI.
 
 Launched in July 2012, Bangkok-based Thai Smile currently operates its   A-320s to Jaipur and Lucknow and runs a seasonal flight on Bangkok-Gaya-Varanasi route. Both the Lucknow and Jaipur routes have three flights a week while the Buddhist circuit flight operates in winter schedule from October 1 to March 27.
 
 “The Jaipur and Lucknow flights were started last November and December, respectively. The frequency of Bangkok-Jaipur will be enhanced to four and five flights a week in March and May, respectively, and then made a daily from October. We are also aiming at five flights a week in Lucknow by the end of this year,” said Laprabang, a trained   777 pilot who used to fly Thai planes till recently.
 
 India had, in 2006, allowed airlines from Thailand to operate in 18 tier II cities. “Thai and Thai Smile together have a ‘India 100’ plan where we aim to have 100 weekly flights to the country. At present, (parent) Thai has a double daily to Delhi and Mumbai and a daily to the four metros of Kolkata, Bangalore, Chennai and Hyderabad using wide body Boeing 777 and Airbus A-330s. Thai Smile is looking at having flights from Pune, Kochi, Ahmedabad and Chandigarh as we want to add at least four more cities in two to three years time,” the CEO said.
 
 Chandigarh is not on the list of 18 non-metros that Thailand’s airlines can operate in and Thai Smile will seek permission for that. In addition, it is also looking at Port Blair as that is the closest Indian city to Bangkok. In fact, a Bangkok-Port Blair flight could lead to tourists from Thailand coming to the Andamans for the beautiful islands the archipelago has like Havelock.
 
 Thai Smile currently has 20 Airbus A-320s and operates within Thailand apart from three foreign markets of ASEAN, China and India. Among its foreign flights, Thai Smile gives higher baggage allowance of 30 kg to economy flyers on India routes – as opposed to 20 kg on China and   flights – “as Indians love to shop.” For premium economy, the baggage allowance on India flights is 40 kg while its 30 kg on Thai Smile’s flights to ASEAN and China.
 
