ALWAR/JAIPUR:   from the core area of the   (STR) has come to a grinding halt due to   and bureaucratic apathy. In the last five years not much progress could be achieved in the relocation of the villages from the   (CTH).

 Currently there are 26 villages in CTH that need to be relocated and that are said to have an violated the tiger habitat. Out of these, 10 villages are in priority I and the rest are in priority II.
 
 Till now only three of the 29 villages located that come under the critical tiger habitat could be fully shifted.
 
 According to the new guidelines of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the government of Rajasthan had notified 881.11 sq. km area as critical tiger habitat on December 28, 2007 after the shocking news of tigers in Sariska being completely wiped out in 2005 was received.
 
 In 2007, village Bhagani was relocated. Two more villages, Umri and Rotkala, were completely shifted later. Today it has become an important tiger habitat occupied by relocated tigers ST-3 (female) and ST-5 (female) and its progenies. Villages Kankwadi, Dabli, have almost been relocated and only a few families are left to be relocated.
 
 Seven villages namely Kankwari, Devri, Rautkela, Dabli, Sukola, Kraska and Haripura are in the process of relocation but it is progressing at a snail’s pace.
 
 The Union government had announced a package of Rs 10 lakh for each adult member of a family or six bighas of agriculture land, a plot and Rs 2.5 lakh as compensation to the families to settle them outside the reserve.
 
 However, according to informed sources, the local politicians are acting as the main villain in the story.
 
 Former director of Sariska and co-founder of Sariska Tiger Foundation, Sunayan Sharma, under whose stewardship the tigers were relocated to Sariska in 2008, alleged that local politicians are playing spoilsport in village relocation. Lack of political will and bureaucratic apathy is adding to the delay in executing the ambitious project. He said that local politicians promise them more compensation and the villagers then develop cold feet when asked to shift.
 
 Chief conservator of forest R S Shekhawat said the families of the villagers are being persuaded to opt for the compensation and shift out.
 
 
