NEW DELHI: The battle for the Rajouri Garden assembly seat is keeping all political parties on their toes. To be held on April 9, the bye-election is a crucial precursor to the municipal elections a fortnight later and the result there will likely strengthen public opinion in favour of the winning party. On Thursday, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh visited the Punjabi-dominated area to campaign for Congress candidate Meenakshi Chandela, while Aam Aadmi Party deployed senior leaders Ashutosh, Raghav Chadha, Ashish Khetan and Atishi Marlena to canvass support for its nominee Harjeet Singh.

 AAP has realised the importance of door-to-door campaigns and booth-level outreach by senior functionaries to reinforce the party’s message. Star campaigner and deputy CM Manish Sisodia has already addressed meetings in the constituency.
 
 While Ashutosh and Chadha, party treasurer and a vociferous defender of the party in television debates, are popular figures, Khetan is the vice-chairman of Dialogue and Development Commission, the AAP government’s think tank, and Atishi Marlena, an advisor to Sisodia on issues such as education reforms and mohalla sabhas. 
 
 AAP is also planning to get chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to hold a public meeting in Rajouri Garden. This, the party feels, will bolster Singh’s chances of a win from the constituency. 
 
 Meanwhile, all four AAP candidates for the municipal elections from the Rajouri Garden assembly constituency have been instructed by party leaders to intensify their door-to-door campaigning, while Singh focuses on padyatras. They will highlight the achievements of the AAP government as well as Kerjiwal’s promise of abolishing property tax on residential buildings if the party came to power in the civic polls.
 
 The vacancy in the Rajouri Garden constituency arose after sitting AAP MLA Jarnail Singh gave up the seat in order to contest against former Punjab CM Surjeet Singh Badal from Lambi in the recent assembly polls. He lost the contest, but AAP did not renominate him for his earlier Delhi seat.
 
