PUNE: A sessions court has   the second   of a 27-year-old man from Bavdhan Khurd, off Paud Road, in a case of alleged blackmailing and repeated   of a  . 

 The accused, who is in jail since his arrest on January 25, has so far married twice, had a divorce from his first wife over his extra-marital affair and is facing an ongoing trial for harassment and domestic violence case lodged in 2015 by his second wife. 
 
 He entered into an affair with the complainant woman in the instant case during the subsistence of his second marriage. 
 
 Additional sessions judge M R Purwar referred to the charge sheet filed by the police and the sequence of blackmailing and repeated rape incidents narrated by the woman and held on July 24 that the offence was of serious nature. Moreover, a prosecution witness has recorded his statement that he had seen the woman and the accused during night hours in the latter’s house and heard noise of quarrel and assault, the court observed. 
 
 “Statement of the (second) wife of applicant/accused prima facie shows that he is having relations with some other girls too,” the court added. “The prosecution has produced paper cutting which prima facie shows that the parents of applicant/accused disowned him. Considering all these facts, there is not only prima facie case, but the possibility of tampering and repeating similar type of the offence cannot be ruled out. 
 
 There is also one previous crime registered against the applicant/accused,” the court observed and rejected the bail application.
 
 The defence counsel had argued, among other things, that the accused was falsely implicated in the case by the complainant who is a married woman and that, there was delay in the registration of FIR. Besides, the complainant had suppressed material facts relating to the case, he argued. However, the prosecution pointed out that threats issued by the accused were the reason behind the delay in lodging of the FIR. The charge sheet too showed a serious offence against the accused and he had extra-marital affairs with other girls too, the prosecution argued.
 
 
