PATNA: Senior BJP functionary and former deputy chief minister   on Tuesday requested the   government at the Centre to commence the financial year from January 1 in pursuance of economic reforms.

 “The tradition of commencement of financial year from April 1 has been inherited from British era. However, a committee headed by L K Jha had suggested the Centre in 1984 to commence the financial year from January 1. Last year too, the Centre constituted a committee headed by Shankar Acharya (former chief economic adviser) to study the feasibility of starting the financial year from January 1 instead of April 1. The economy would be benefitted a lot as presently different kinds of developmental projects remain suspended for four months from June owing to onset of monsoon. If financial year starts from January 1, more work would be done and accordingly more funds would be spent,” Modi said on the sidelines of his weekly ‘janta darbar’ here.
 
 The former deputy CM added that the central government is for the first time coming up with the budget on February 1, so that the full budget is passed by March 31.
 
 Asked about special status demand for Bihar, Modi said, “A committee headed by former RBI governor   had in its report submitted to the Centre in 2013 suggested doing away with the ‘special category status’ for states. Similarly, the   had also recommended doing away with special category status. This, in fact, is the reason that chief minister  , who was quite vocal of special category status before the 2015 assembly elections, is now not saying anything on this issue as he also knows that this demand is not valid anymore,” said Modi.
 
 On special package of Rs. 1.25lakh crore for Bihar as announced by PM Modi before the last assembly elections, Modi said work on different components of the special package is going on at various stages.
 
 Confusion over student scholarship: Five students from East Champaran visited Modi’s ‘janta darbar’ on Tuesday and complained to him that they were not getting the required scholarship from Nitish Kumar government as promised earlier. “The state government paid full scholarship to us only till our second semester, but it has now been reduced to Rs 15,000 only. Our college is now asking for payment of full fees otherwise our registration would be terminated,” said Loknath Kumar, who hails from East Champaran and is presently pursuing diploma in engineering at Raajdhani Engineering College , Bhubaneswar, with scholarship from Bihar government under SC category. Modi urged the state government to take necessary steps for addressing the plight of the students entitled to scholarship as there are around 40,000 such students studying in other states. 
 
