BHOPAL: State gas relief and rehabilitation minister Vishwas Sarang said on Saturdaythat Affordable Medicines and Reliable Implants for Treatment (AMRIT) pharmacy scheme should be opened at Bhopal Memorial hospital and research centre (BMHRC) at the earliest. Non-availability of medicine and consumable has adversely impacted patient care at the super-speciality hospital.

 AMRIT pharmacy is an ambitious scheme of the Modi government and is aimed at reducing the cost of medical treatment. “I have directed my department to write to BMHRC for implementation of AMRUT pharmacy. It would be beneficial for patients and also reduce costs,” said Sarang, who represents   constituency where a large number of victims of the Bhopal gas disaster of 1984 reside.
 
 Sarang’s statement comes at a time when setting up of AMRIT pharmacy at   government’s department of health research (DHR) administrated BMHRC has met with internal objections. Sarang is a member of the joint Union government and state government coordination committee for BMHRC.
 
 Sources said that BMHRC could save about 50% on its current billing of about Rs 25 crore per year, if it adopts AMRIT. However, internal delay has meant that Modi government’s ambitious scheme is yet to get a nod, said sources.
 
 The super-speciality hospital and its eight ou-reach units cater to about 5 lakh gas victims. Medical care and drugs for these patients and their dependents is free. Over the years, there have been complaints from patients and doctors about non-availability of drugs and other consumables.
 
 AMRIT has proposed 24x7 pharmacy for BMHRC. It would replace the current system wherein main pharmacy closes after office hours. AMRIT representatives have cited example of AIIMS, New Delhi, where its 24 counters distribute Rs 5 lakh worth of generic drugs for free each day, said a senior BMHRC official. Proposal to DHE for setting up AMRIT pharmacy was first sent on February 23. It coincided with similar proposal for government-run Gandhi Medical College (GMC), where AMRIT has been approved.
 
 “BMHRC would not have to bother about purchase and distribution. HLL would take over the operation and has guaranteed that their margin would be not more than 20%,” said the official, seeking anonymity.
 
 Sources said that a large number of medication bought by BMHRC currently is a local purchase. Comptroller and auditor general (CAG) of India has also cited discrepancies in purchase at the hospital. DHR is yet to take action against the named officials. When contacted, DHR joint sectary did not respond.
 
 Activist seeks probe into patient’s death
 
 Bhopal: Gas actvist Rashida Bee alleged on Saturday that A 45-year-old man died in Gas Rahat hospital due to negligence on part of doctors. The deceased   was admitted at the hospital on July 11 following pain in abdomen. His relatives told Rashida Bee that the victim was left unattended by specialists and he died after 18 hours. On Saturday, she met state gas relief and rehabilitation minister Vishwas Sarang and hospital’s director Dr KK Dubey and demanded an investigation into the matter.
 
 
