COIMBATORE: Residents of Mettupalayam municipality have moved the southern bench of the   (NGT) seeking to shift their drinking water supply source from the   to an upper stream. 

 Citing confirmed reports of human faeces and chemicals found in Bhavani river water, the residents wanted the municipality to draw water from Vilamarathur, where the water is clean and clear.
 
 Stating several examples such as the Odanthurai village, which has an exclusive water supply scheme from Kallar, and some water supply schemes of Coimbatore region that were shifted to upstream after the water was found unfit for human consumption, the residents urged the NGT to pass an order shifting the water source.
 
 Petitioner TT Rangasamy of Bhavani River Water and Groundwater Protection Council said, “The barrages constructed on the Bhavani river require a minimum of 3,000 cusecs of water to generate power. However, using the stagnated water, they cannot generate electricity for more than an hour. In June this year, many fish died in the lower barrage. The tests revealed it was due to the oxygen level going below the permissible limits.”
 
 He said RTI replies have revealed that the source of the water supply scheme for   and Vadavalli area was shifted upstream due to pollution and high total dissolved solids. “Similarly, we wanted the source to be shifted because of the water contamination by municipal waste and industrial pollution,” he said, adding that the municipal waste from Wellington and Coonoor area also get mixed in the barrage where the drinking water is being drawn as per reports of the World Wildlife Fund. 
 
 Former chairman of the municipality   said that he had also filed a petition in the NGT about the contamination of the river and sought the appointment of a monitoring committee by the tribunal to monitor the implementation of the underground ground drainage project. About the change of the water supply source, he said it was difficult. “Vilamarathur comes under the forest land and central government. Getting approval from the Centre is a tedious process and to get the sanctions is difficult,” he said.
 
 Managing Trustee of Save Bhavani Trust R Santhamurthy said members had approached the municipal commissioner regarding the issue and he was informed that the state government had ordered officials to get the estimation and find the feasibility of the proposal. The   could not be reached for a comment.
 
