MYSURU: Public works minister H C Mahadevappa, a confidant of chief minister Siddaramaiah, on Monday said that he is not interested to contest the Nanjangud byelection.

 Even as Congress observers collected feedback from party activists and the chief minister held marathon meetings with local leaders to decide on the party candidate for the byelection last week, Mahadevappa, whose name was proposed by a section of party leaders, has ruled out contesting the byelection. Mahadevappa is from Haadinaru in Nanjangud taluk.
 
 Asserting that the party high command will decide the candidate, he told reporters that though his name was proposed by some local leaders, “but I’m not interested to contest the byelection”.
 
 The byelection has been necessitated following the resignation of senior dalit leader  . The byelection will be an acid test for Congress, especially for Siddaramaiah, given that Nanjangud segment is part of the chief minister’s home district. 
 
 Also, Prasad has targeted Siddaramaiah by defecting to BJP after being snubbed by the latter. Mahadevappa represents T Narsipur segment, which abuts Nanjangud taluk.
 
 While it was felt that a senior minister like Mahadevappa should take on Prasad, the former has indicated that he is not interested.
 
 When asked about the possibility of the party fielding his son Sunil Bose or former ZP chief  , he said the process to decide on the candidate is not through. He kept the option open for getting leaders from opposition camp and fielding them. When asked about the talks in political circles that Congress is trying to woo JD(S) leader  , he said the party high command will decide about the candidate, and the decision will be binding.
 
 This comes amidst speculation that Chamarajanagar MP R Dhruvanarayana will be asked to contest the byelection.   has said that he is not ready, the party could ask him to fight the election. Sources said the party leaders had approached Keshavmurthy, who stood second in the 2013 polls after Prasad. He has asked the party leaders about the prospects in 2018 assembly elections. “He is trying to know his position in the party after the byelection,” sources said.
 
 
