NOIDA: It is the peak migratory season and for bird lovers the next two weeks are all that is left for the birders of NCR before the birds start their homeward flight.

 At  , birding activity is presently visible, full-spree. For bird-enthusiasts, forest ranger positioned at OBS, IC Singh advises birders to reach the location latest by 8 am to catch the best flock.
 
 For early morning birders, Okhla now has to offer a set of white pelicans and pink flamingoes which are roosting in the inner islands of the sanctuary apart from the usual set of  .
 
 "The birds have slowly started leaving. There are not so many birds left presently as there were last week. We will get a proper counting done soon. This is the last leg to catch a glimpse of the birds from all over the world and one should do so over the next two weeks," Singh said.
 
 Noida’s Okhla Bird Sanctuary, Surajpur wetland in Dadri and Dankaur are some of the major hubs of migratory birds to come, roost during the winter months in   district. Starting from October, the birding season peaks during February first week, with most birds beginning to leave by end of February to mid-March.
 
 "It is a pleasure to be here as I have caught a grey-legged goose on my camera. I am visiting Delhi for work, and have taken special time to come and shoot here today," Gautam Mondal, a physician from Kolkata, who was photographing birds at OBS today, said.
 
 "This weekend we are hosting a bird walk in Okhla. Next week we will host one in Surajpur. This is the last bit of the migratory season, so we are trying to make the most of it," Matthew Joseph, the founder of the   (DBP) group said. DBP is a community of birders from Delhi and its surrounding areas.
 
 The birds to be sighted at this time at the various wetlands and specifically at Surajpur and Okhla are, the Indian Peafowl, Green Bee-eater , Spot-billed Duck,Yellow-footed Green Pigeon, Purple Heron, Shikra ,Marsh Harrier ,White-breasted Waterhen , Red-naped Ibis ,Pond Heron ,Wood Sandpiper ,Whiskered Tern ,River tern,,Grey Heron ,Indian Cormorant, Greater Coucal ,Moorhen ,Black-winged Stilt , Koel, Cattle Egret , Little Egret ,Oriental Honey Buzzard,Great Egret,Darter,Grey Hornbill ,Rose-ringed Parakeet,White-throated Kingfisher ,Coppersmith Barbet ,Black-headed Ibis , Red-wattled Lapwing ,Collared-Dove , Eurasian Hobby ,Black Kite,,Great Cormorant ,,Grey-headed Swamphen , Rock Pigeon, Laughing Dove ,Brown headed Barbet,Purple Sunbird, Black Drongo , House Crow ,Oriental Magpie-Robin ,Bluethroat ,Stonechat, Asian Pied Starling ,Red Avadavat, Plain Prinia ,Blyth's Reed-Warbler ,Yellow-bellied Prinia, Red-whiskered Bulbul ,Striated Babbler ,Oriental White-eye, Ashy Prinia , Common Chiffchaff , Jungle Babbler , Lesser Whistling-Duck ,Common Myna , Bushchat , Ruddy Shelduck , Canary Flycatcher, Rufus Treepie , Oriental Magpie robin.
 
