CHENNAI:  , the official residence of former chief minister  ,   , the eve of the vote of confidence in the   government. The number of supporters gathered at the Theni strongman's house on Greenways Road was negligible in stark contrast to the sea of people who thronged the premises last week after he rebelled against AIADMK general secretary V K  .

 The Panneerselvam camp sent a team to assembly speaker P Dhanapal in the morning and asked for a secret ballot during the confidence motion.The team comprised former minister K Pandiarajan, MLA S Semmalai and senior leader C Ponnaiyan, among others. “If the speaker opts for a secret ballot, our group will increase its tally beyond 11 and may even defeat the government motion. All MLAs, including our supporters, are held captive at Koovathur,“ said a senior member of the OPS group.
 
 OPS' supporters strongly feel the need to defeat Palaniswami as they see the latter as the proxy of Sasikala.S Muthukrishnan, a former MLA from Kanyakumari constituency and secretary of the district MGR Mandram, said the need of the hour was to wrest control of the party from one family . “This is the prime reason why Panneerselvam has a groundswell of support from workers in the AIADMK and the public,“ he said. Citing the induction of Sasikala's nephew T T V Dinakaran into the party , he said, “It is a clear indication that the fight against dethroning the family from the helm of affairs still persists.“
 
 While senior leaders supporting Panneerselvam went into a huddle, second rung leaders were anxious about the floor test on Saturday .
 
 
 
 
 Chennai: The rebel camp led by O Panneerselvam went on high gear by expelling interim general secretary V K Sasikala and others from the primary membership of the AIADMK.Party presidium chairman E Madhusudanan, who was `sacked' by Sasikala a week ago, on Friday issued releases expelling party leaders like P Thangamani, Dindigul C Srinivasan, R B Udayakumar, Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai. But the moot question is whether these decisions are valid. Two petitions are pending with the Election Commission on Sasikala's appointment as interim general secretary. “If the EC declares Sasikala's appointment null and void, then her decisions, including expelling Panneerselvam from the primary membership of party will be infructuous,“ said a senior leader of the OPS group. But if the EC declares her election valid then all her decisions like appointment of TTV Dinakaran will be valid. 
 
