Mohali: Greater Mohali Area Development Authority ( ) refrains itself from recarpetting the airport road till the vigilance probe is completed. 

 However GMADA chief administrator Ravi Bhagat said the authority will soon do the patch work to cover the potholes developed due to recent heavy downpour.
 
 Bhagat said, “It is not possible for us to recarpet the road under such circumstances. First vigilance department has to complete the probe and submit its report to the Punjab government. Only then, we will be in the position to recarpet the road. At present, it is the case property. Though we have planned to start the patch work to cover up the potholes, by the end of September. For this, the estimates are being prepared by the engineering department.”
 
 A 200-ft-wide road, leading to Chandigarh international airport in Mohali, has turned almost non-motorable in less than two years. It was laid at a whopping cost of Rs 15 crore by the previous SAD-BJP regime.
 
 Around 25-km-long stretch connecting the Mohali-Kharar highway with the Zirakpur-Banur road, passing through Mohali is full of large potholes, big bumps, shattered iron grills, broken footpaths and naked junction boxes on electricity poles.
 
 It was also one of the major projects undertaken by the GMADA’s former chief engineer Surinderpal Singh alias Pehlwan, who was arrested by vigilance department under corruption and disproportionate assets cases.
 
 The vigilance bureau in June this year arrested former GMADA chief engineer Surinderpal Singh and two of his associates, Gurmej Singh and Mohit Kumar. With their arrest, nine major roads of Mohali came under scanner which are suspected to be constructed by the companies floated by the ex-CE in connivance with his family members and other accomplices.
 
 Surinderpal had allegedly favoured contractors after alteration in terms of tenders and collected commission from them through his conduit. State vigilance bureau have unearthed 92 properties worth crores of rupees appropriated by Surinderpal Singh, which were purchased by five firms floated by him in the name of his family members and associates. In addition to this, Rs 57 crore was invested in three companies owned by his family.
 
 Gmada ex-chief engineer’s assets
 
 42 in the name of Agro Seed Private Limited, Ludhiana
 
 5 in the name of Award Agro Traders Private Limited, Ludhiana
 
 11 in the name of Auster Agro Traders Private Limited
 
 20 in the name of Akme Crushers and Builders Private Limited, Ludhiana
 
 2 in the name of Ek Onkar Builders and Contractors Private Limited, Ludhiana
 
 12 in the name of his family members and relatives
 
 2-kanal (1,000 square yards) house in Chandigarh in the name of Award Agro Traders Private Limited
 
 
