BHOPAL: A day after   and seven others were acquitted by Dewas district court in the RSS pracharak   murder case, the state   on Thursday pointed an accusing finger at the   government and asked, “Who then killed Sunil Joshi?”

 PCC chief spokesman KK Mishra issued a statement saying Sadhvi Pragya and seven others were accused in December 27, 2007 murder of RSS functionary Sunil Joshi. “Today, all eight accused have walked free because of weak and contradictory evidences. The state government should clarify whether Sunil Joshi was killed at all. And if he was murdered then by who,” Mishra said.
 
 Joshi had been charge-sheeted by the NIA in connection with   train blast of 2007. He was shot dead by assailants who came on two motorbikes when he was walking in Chuna Khadan locality in Dewas town.
 
 He said that if law and order situation in the state was still under control, how accused in a sensitive murder case walked free. He recalled a year after Joshi’s alleged murder, the state government decided to close the case. “On whose instructions did the government take the step to close the murder case?” he asked. The   Police, later, reopened the case and filed a charge-sheet in Dewas alleging that Sadhvi Pragya Thakur and four others had killed him fearing he might expose plotting blasts from Samjhauta to Ajmer blasts.
 
 Congress claimed Sunil Joshi was the “mastermind” behind several blasts in the country. “Investigations of blasts would have led to him and hence, he was killed by his own organisation so that the secret was never out,” Mishra said.
 
 Mishra said Sunil Joshi’s niece had given a statement about how Sadhvi Pragya visited the RSS pracharak’s home after his alleged murder and took away a suitcase. In January 2008, Joshi’s 19-year-old niece Chanchal claimed that Sadhvi Pragya was a regular visitor to their Dewas home and went to the house on the night of Sunil Joshi’s murder. Chanchal had claimed that Pragya took away a suitcase belonging to Joshi that night. “Why was this aspect of the case not considered by the state police at all?” Mishra asked.
 
 
