AMRITSAR: Amritsar East assembly constituency suddenly came under focus after sitting MLA Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu decided to vacate the seat for her husband cricketer-turned-politician   after the couple bid farewell to BJP to join the Congress.

 Dr Sidhu had won from Amritsar East in the 2012 assembly elections with the help of her husband, then a BJP MP. She had defeated an independent candidate Simerpreet Kaur by a margin of 7,099 votes. Known for taking cudgels with not only her own party’s leaders when in BJP, but also chief minister Parkash Singh Badal had blamed Dr Sidhu for scuttling funds for development in her constituency.
 
 Feeling ‘suffocated’ and being unable to work for the development of Punjab, Sidhu had resigned from Rajya Sabha membership last year to form Awaaz-e-Punjab front but later decided to join the Congress and contest assembly elections. On Saturday, he won the seat with a margin of 42,809 votes. He garnered 60,477 votes while his nearest rival Rajesh Kumar Honey of the BJP secured only 17,668 votes followed by Sarabjot Singh Dhanjal of the Aam Aadmi Party who collected 14,715 votes. Despite top BJP leadership throwing its weight behind Honey, he couldn’t win the seat.
 
 In another hot contest, BJP candidate and cabinet minister Anil Joshi lost to former mayor of Amritsar Sunil Dutti of the Congress by a margin of 14,236 votes. Joshi, who claimed to have done unprecedented development work in Amritsar North constituency, was rejected by the voters. Joshi got 44,976 votes while Dutti polled 59,212 votes. 
 
 For the past 10 years, Dutti had been working in Amritsar East and was suddenly picked by the party high command for contesting elections from Amritsar North following which another senior party leader Karamjit Singh Rintu turned a rebel. Rintu even gave an ultimatum to party high command to rethink over its decision of giving ticket to Dutti. In the 2012 assembly elections, Rintu had contested from Amritsar North and lost to BJP’s Joshi.
 
 
