To lure investments to Andhra Pradesh and to maintain the growth path, citizens feel the government should analyse the results and outcomes of industrial conclaves like the CII Partnership Summit and ensure that MoUs signed are successfully implemented within a specific time frame. Here’s what our readers have to say.

 Need new policies
 
 The government should bring in policy where they offer 50% subsidy on electricity for industries that commence operations industries first and then decrease the subsidy for those who come in later. This will attract more industries to come up at the earliest. Also, they should come up with a new employment policy. The government should encourage new industries that collaborate with colleges by giving them a rebate on tax as this can create job opportunities.
 
 Surendra Kumar Madan, Businessman
 
 Land for industrial parks
 
 Investors make decisions based on economics of profit and not on the employment potential generated. It’s better to give some land for private sector industrial parks for developers as they will bring in allied industries in their own interest apart from APIIC industrial parks, which is also important. Some industrialists want land, electricity, labour, infrastructure ready as plug-and-play. This should be looked into by the government.
 
 Dr C Radhakanth, Director of Virtue Centre
 
 Maintain timeframe
 
 The government should not confine itself to taking credit for organising prestigious international events but rather make a true analysis on the results or outcomes of such summits. Thus, there should be a clear understanding with the government with regard to the successful implementation of the MoUs and thereby setting up of the targeted projects on ground on a timebound manner. There’s a dire necessity for thorough monitoring of the progress of the MoUs made during the earlier summit.
 
 TV Nageswara Rao, Social activist
 
 Improve infrastructure
 
 What is required to generate more funds and investment opportunities is to improve logistics and infrastructure in the smart city. We need to have regular international flights from Vizag to all corners of the globe. Secondly, presence of large number of star hotels, excellent availability of land, single point clearance and above all clear law and order situation in the city would also be add-on factors. More number of industries must come within foreign direct investment in the country.
 
 Kuppili Muralidhar, Advocate
 
 
