CHANDIGARH: Documents Of Grants & Planning, Salary, Examination & Payment Sections Gutted;  
The Saturday night fire on the first floor of  's adminstrative block destroyed all documents of the varsity's grants and planning section, salary section, examination and payment section, and partly of the budget section.However, according to a PU official, most of the data is retievable from a centralized server.
 
 
 Panjab University finance development officer   said most of the data was retrievable since all the transactions were uploaded on a centralized server of the university. He added that it would take time to retrieve the data.
 
 PU's establish cheque register (ECR) record, which contains record of all finances of teaching and non-teaching staff, was also gutted, erasing the audit record of previous years. Sources said old audit records were also gone. These audit reports contain the name of the auditor and the person who was at fault. The audit is always manual and is done using a red pen.
 
 The vouchers and bills were also burnt in the fire.Sources said the planning and grants section of PU had suffered the most. The varsity is now banking on its centralized server, data on which is uploaded every day and is retrievable.
 
 However, sources said the server will have only the amount that has been cleared.For example, if someone has purchased items for a project worth Rs 2 lakh and already paid the amount, attached the bills and vouchers containing the details of the money used for project, and submitted to the planning and grants section to be cleared -those vouchers and bills that are yet to be cleared by the audit branch, would have been burnt in the fire completely, making it difficult to ascertain what was the money spent used for.
 
 Moreover, sources said the record books of around 70 to 80 employees were also gutted. A record book contains the entire record of an employee, right from hisher appointment to retirement. It contains the details of promotions and payscales of an employee.
 
 Not accidental?
 
 There were speculations that the fire was not accidental and was the handiwork of someonoe who wanted to hide something, as only the accounts section in the entire building had caught fire. Social media is also abuzz with the speculations that it might have been done to shield someone.
 
