CHENNAI: When she connived to kill a three-year-old girl in cold blood for a few grams of gold and silver, she didn’t count on the possibility that her own daughter — just two years older than the victim — would give her up to the law.

 The revelation by the five-year-old girl helped police arrest K Revathi, 26, who lured the child from her home and murdered her for a gold locket and silver anklet and hip chain before dumping the body in a garbage site.
 
 Investigators — who are probing if a male friend was an accomplice in the offence and have not ruled out sexual assault in the case — said Revathi’s daughter told them her mother had brought the child to their house and bolted her in a room.
 
 “Revathi was our primary suspect because the child’s mother said she had asked her if she could take the girl home to play with her daughter,” an investigating officer said. “We coaxed Komal* with some chocolate and she told us what happened on Saturday afternoon. We hoped she could help us with clues but never thought that she would directly implicate her mother.”
 
 Komal told officers how her mother took the child into the room and later left with a bag. Revathi was carrying the body of the child. She had suffocated the girl when she tried to raise an alarm. By then, Revathi’s father Sekar had returned home drunk, heard what had happened, and helped dump the body.
 
 The victim’s family on Monday said Revathi had been living in the neighbourhood for more than four years but had never spoken to them earlier.
 
 “Revathi lived in the block opposite ours with her father, mother, two brothers and two children,” the child’s father Murugan* said.
 
 “Revathi had separated from her husband and did not have any money of her own,” the officer said. “By the time we arrested her, she had pledged the child’s jewellery with a pawnbroker.”
 
 Chief minister   announced compensation of Rs 3 lakh for the victim’s family. DMK working president   and   state president   visited the family.
 
