NASHIK: If people were the target of the winged ones in Hitchcock's `The Birds', it's the ready-to-be-harvested grapes that marauding bats are after in Nashik.

 Armies of the   are causing havoc and destruction in the vineyards here, giving sleepless nights to farmers who are already reeling from the  . The nightmare began a few days back when hundreds of the furry , flying creatures moved in, literally making a meal out of the grapes at night.
 
 According to   (MRDBS), the apex body of grape growers, around 4,500 acres of the total 1.25 lakh acres earmarked for grape cultivation have been affected by the bat menace.
 
 The destruction has forced farmers to keep a hawk's eye on their vineyards. “I am spending sleepless nights for the last nine days.The grapes are ready to be harvested and if they are eaten, I would suffer a huge financial loss,“ said Prakash Jawle, a farmer from Vanasgaon in Niphad tehsil.
 
 Jawle has installed eight high-intensity lights in his vineyards and is awake the entire night in his attempt to keep the winged denizens at bay. “However, despite my efforts, bats have rampaged through the vineyards.They come in hordes -at times 10, 50 or even more, eating and damaging bunches of grapes,“ he said.
 
 And this is not the first time that bats have attacked his vineyards. He said at least 15% of his produce was affected by the bat menace last year. “I am yet to assess my loss this year but it would not be less than last year's,“ he added.
 
 Echoing similar views, another grape farmer Dinesh Khapre, whose vineyard stretches across 1.5 acres, said he has put up nets to prevent the bats from targeting the grapes. “This year has been particularly bad. The bats attacked my vineyard exactly three days before the harvest. They not only ate the grapes but damaged 75% grape bunches. It will be a huge loss for me,“ he said.
 
 Ravindra Gaikar from Nimgaon village near Lasalgaon said, “Last year, the bats had damaged 25% of the produce in my 1.5 acre vineyard. This year, I installed electric bulbs to protect the fields at night, but to no avail. Finally, I began creating a bonfire of husks of soybean to keep the bats away. This experiment has succeeded to some extent.“
 
