NEW DELHI: Post a selfie with the   around this   and government handles will retweet it. This, a week-long celebration for common citizens in the Rajpath lawns, and much more is in the works as the   government is planning what it calls a momentous celebration around the 70th Independence Day this August 15.
 
  Letters have already gone out to all ministers from the Press Information Bureau on the directions of information and broadcasting minister M  , asking them to write special features on the importance of the 70th Independence Day. The thrust this time, an official said, is on the theme of the “overall progress made by the nation after Independence, but with a special focus on what has been achieved in the last three years” under the leadership of Modi.
  
  “The PM has stressed on the concept of a New India. The same will be articulated in the government’s campaign too, as to stress on what lies ahead for the country after 70 years of independence,” an official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
  
  There will be ‘Twitter Polls’ and quizzes run by the government on   on various facets of Independence. People will be invited to post their selfies with the tricolour on social media and government handles will be re-tweeting and liking such posts.
  
  The week-long celebration will be held in the Rajpath lawns between Mansingh Road and Janpath from August 12 to 18 in conjunction with the Independence Day function at the Red Fort.
  
  These celebrations are likely to be for nine hours each day in the evenings. The idea is to “create patriotic mood, ensure wider participation of the general public and to promote the cuisine & rich cultural diversity of our country,” as per the tourism ministry which will be coordinating this event.
  
  Five main areas will be built in the lawns — cultural and musical areas, state theme pavilions, a food court, handicraft areas and facilities for interactive activities. A central area in the south lawns on Rajpath will be marked for cultural activities with a main stage area where military bands will play along with cultural performances.
  
  All government departments will arrange for handicraft and handloom for the celebrations. The Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity and Archaeological Survey of India will put up photo exhibitions pertaining to the Independence movement.
  
  “The idea is to let people take pride in the nation and to recall how the country has evolved after Independence despite all the negative points. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has further placed India in the top league of nations in the last three years. People’s opinions will be sought on social media what freedom means for them,” a senior official said.
  
  A committee of ministers headed by Venkaiah Naidu will be set up to coordinate the celebrations, officials said. Like last year, the BJP will also be running a campaign with central ministers expected to visit various spots in the country closely related to the Independence movement, like the Cellular Jail in Port Blair and Jallianwala Bagh.
  
