New Delhi: Defying anti-incumbency, the Manjit Singh GK-led   (Badal) retained its stronghold in the  , elections results for which were announced on Wednesday. It easily subverted the challenge of Paramjit Singh Sarna’s Shiromani Akali Dal Delhi, winning 35 seats out of 46 against the latter’s seven.

 DSGMC is a 55-member body, 46 of them popularly elected, with 10 historical gurdwaras and more than 30 educational institutions under its purview. SAD Badal had won 37 seats in 2013. The Aam Aadmi Party-supported Panthak Seva Dal could not open its account.
 
 Manjit Singh GK, who is the incumbent DSGMC president, attributed the win to the reforms he had brought in education and the efforts to revive the Sikh history and heritage in the capital. “My work in highlighting the plight of the 1984 riot victims and efforts to ensure justice too were appreciated by the community,” he said. Sarna refused to comment on the demoralising results.
 
 There are 3.8 lakh Sikh voters registered with the Directorate of Gurdwara Elections. Not only did they prevent SAD-Delhi from wresting power, but they ensured that Sarna lost from his Punjabi Bagh ward to  , general secretary of the outgoing DSGMC. However, the two groups fought close battles in many seats, and the victory margin in Vikaspuri, Khayala, Model Town and Malviya Nagar was less than 1% of the votes polled in the ward.
 
 Many feel the results are significant since Sikhs form a good percentage of voters in the coming municipal polls in Delhi. In fact, as Manjit Singh said, “This is just the trailer. Sikhs will reject both the Aam Aadmi Party and Congress in the municipal polls.”
 
 With its 46 members elected, the constitution of the new DSGMC will proceed to co-opting the remaining nine members. Shurbir Singh, director, gurdwara elections, said, “The head priests of the four Akal Takht Sahibs, one person representing SGPC, Amritsar, two members of the registered Singh Sabhas along with two representatives of the Sikh community will complete the panel. The entire process will be over by March end.”
 
