PUNE/NAGPUR/PANAJI: In a simultaneous pre-dawn action, the police in Pune, Nagpur and Panaji detained 21 suspects in connection with the leak of the question paper of the Army Recruitment Board’s common entrance exam (CEE) held on Sunday. The joint action was led by the Thane police’s crime branch which detected the paper leak. The detainees include a retired army officer and a senior paramilitary officer.

 Army and police sources confirmed that the leaked papers matched with the original papers set by the  . The paper was being circulated through a cellphone messaging service to the beneficiaries, police said. The recruitments were being conducted for the post of soldiers (general duty), soldier clerks and soldier tradesmen. The education qualifications for the jobs ranged from class 8 to class 12 pass.
 
 A lance naik with an army depot in Khadki and the director of a private academy for services job aspirants at Phaltan in Satara district were among the nine suspects detained in Pune. The remaining seven were agents and drivers who assisted the key suspects in drawing the beneficiaries, police said. 
 
 Another nine suspects were detained in Nagpur and one of them, hailing from Katol tehsil in Nagpur district, has already been charged in an earlier leak case. The police also rounded up 210 candidates, who were found huddled in a marriage hall in the Hudkeshwar locality mugging up the answers from the question papers handed to them by the agents. However, these candidates were released after questioning. 
 
 A   (BSF) jawan was among the three suspects detained in Goa. “All the suspects are being handed over to the Thane police for further action, including arrests,” a police official said. 
 
 Investigators suspect an organised racket to be behind the paper leak, involving people running coaching academies for army job recruitments and some “insiders” familiar with the handling of the exam papers. 
 
 In Pune, 79 alleged beneficiaries of the leaked papers were allowed to appear for the exam considering the paucity of time and the investigations which were going on later in the day. Of these, eight were taken by the police to their exam centre in Ahmednagar and brought back after the exam.
 
 “A decision about these candidates and beneficiaries from other centres will be taken by the Army headquarters in Delhi in the next few days after examining the nitty-gritties of the case,” sources in the army said.
 
 “Two of the key suspects in Pune (the Phaltan academy director and the army lance naik) were found dictating questions from the leaked paper to the beneficiaries at a multi-purpose hall at Phursungi in Hadapsar when we moved in around 1.30am,” a police official, who was part of the action, told TOI. 
 
 He said the duo had obtained the leaked paper on a cellphone messaging service from Nagpur. “The academy’s director was reading out the questions while the other man stood nearby. We have recovered two cellphones containing photographs of the leaked papers,” the police officer added. 
 
 A senior army officer, who did not wish to be identified, said, “The paper which the Thane crime sleuths possessed matched with the original one set by the army board. However, by then, the exams had started on Sunday morning.”
 
 Army sources said their vigilance branch had already been pressed into action to investigate the matter. “Since the paper has matched with the leaked paper, there is a high possibility that the army will start an internal inquiry into the case after which further action will be taken against the personnel concerned,” the sources said.
 
 A police official said the candidates from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and different parts of Maharashtra had arrived at the Pune railway station on Saturday night for the exam. “They were taken to the multi-purpose hall in a private bus. The key suspects were briefing these candidates about the questions as well as the correct answers,” he said. 
 
 The official said the academy’s director had verified the CEE hall tickets of each candidate and had collected the original academic documents from them as collateral for payment after clearing the CEE. The agents were promised Rs 1 lakh each.
 
 Investigations revealed that two nephews of the army lance naik were to appear for the CEE and he had secured the leaked papers for them before extending the activity to other beneficiaries. The paper was arranged from a suspect in Nagpur, police said. 
 
 When contacted, Thane police’s additional commissioner of police Makrand Ranade said, “After confirming an informant’s tip-off, we shared intelligence with respective commissionerates in the state and Goa. They took further action. The concerned branch of the army was alerted in advance.”
 
 In Nagpur, the police handed over the leaked papers to the   (ARO) before the exam began at 10am on Sunday. Sources said the papers with the agents were same as the original. But the ARO went ahead with the exams, which was declared invalid subsequently. Sources said the ARO preferred to conduct the test even after the leak was confirmed. 
 
 Sources said the agents from the coaching classes picked up the candidates from the railway station on Saturday night. The candidates were to get the papers for a payback of Rs 2 lakh. The money was to be given once the recruitment was confirmed. As security, the agents kept the original documents of the candidates. 
 
 In Goa, Anjuna police inspector Sanjay Dalvi told TOI that three persons from Maharashtra were detained in connection with the paper leak. Nearly 50 candidates from Maharashtra had reached Ponda, 30km from Panaji, to give the exam. A Thane police team arrived on the night intervening Saturday and Sunday to initiate the joint action. 
 
 The police visited a bar and restaurant at Anjuna, around 20km from Panaji, and found 49 candidates and the three suspects. The paper was leaked through a social networking app and the three suspects were found orally dictating the questions to the candidates. Dalvi said after the search, the candidates were allowed to leave the restaurant to appear for the exam.
 
 Police said that at around 10am on Sunday, Thane police verified the leaked paper with the original paper and it was confirmed that the questions had been leaked. Police said the three persons who were detained arrived in Goa on Sunday.
 
 (
 )
 
