KOLKATA: The state advocate general on Wednesday told Calcutta high court that the controversial flyover project through the   had been “sent to Delhi for clearance”, thereby indicating that the project had already been passed by the   (EKWMA).

 The admission has left green activists shocked as the EKWMA was set up to protect the wetlands instead of approving a project that threatens to alter its distinct character.
 
 “The proposal has been sent to the   under the ministry of environment and forests for clearances. There will be no construction till the approvals are in place,” advocate general Kishore Dutta said on Wednesday while responding to a PIL filed on rampant encroachment in the internationally recognized Ramsar site.
 
 Former members of EKWMA said any proposal had to first be ratified by the authority before being forwarded to Delhi for clearance.
 
 Appearing for petitioner Public, the green action group that had been instrumental in securing protection for the wetlands through a PIL way back in 1991-92, advocate Siddhartha Mitra argued that the EKWMA had no authority to give clearance to a project of this nature as Section 10 of the EKWMA Act allowed it to only sanction those projects which are good for its upkeep and benefits the local environment.
 
 Mitra also pointed out that there are several other encroachments that have already taken place with private builders illegally filling up bheris at will with EKWMA only filing FIRs and the administration looking the other way. Acting chief justice   and justice Tapabrata Chakraborty directed the advocate general to file an affidavit on the matter within a week of the court reopening after the Puja vacations that begin on September 22. With the court reopening on October 23, the affidavit has to be filed by October 30. Public has to file a reply by November 15, following which the next hearing is expected in the last week of November. 
 
 Pradeep Kakkar of Public said it was shocking to hear the state willing to say in writing that it was breaking its own Act. “When the advocate general said, ‘I can confirm that EKWMA has cleared the flyover project’, I was aghast. There was no effort to even appear apologetic about the violation being committed.”
 
 Mayor and environment minister Sovon Chatterjee took over chairmanship of EKWMA from the chief secretary a couple of months ago and immediately tabled the flyover proposal that had been mooted in secrecy a year-and-a-half ago. The proposed 6.5-km flyover aims to connect EM Bypass with Rajarhat Main Arterial Road. While one end of the elevated corridor would be near the Maa flyover ramp opposite the road to Dhapa, the other end would be near the Kolkata Gate in New Town, a source said. In between, it would cut through the wetland, with 146 concrete piers proposed to be built in the eco-sensitive pocket.
 
 
