Panaji: Pointing out serious lapses in the investigation of a kidnapping case four years ago, the Goa human rights commission, in its inquiry report, on Tuesday recommended that a police officer not below the rank of deputy superintendent of police investigate the case.  The commission recommended that director general of police initiate appropriate action against investigating officer Mahesh Kerkar for carrying out an investigation in a very casual and haphazard manner.  In December 2013, M Kedar stopped his scooter on the road and reached into the boot of his bike when his face was covered with a bedsheet from behind. He was lifted by three or four unknown persons and put inside a car after which he was taken to a room, assaulted and forcibly given something to drink. His limbs were tied and on regaining consciousness found himself at the Mapusa municipality’s garbage dump on the Assagao plateau, with his face covered in bandage tapes.  “It was the duty and function of the investigating officer to collect evidence by exploring all resources available at his command and by using police intelligence network. He cannot call upon the complainant to produce evidence. He did not make any effort to collect proper evidence. The weapon of assault used in this case was not recovered. The scooter involved in the case was not recovered. The investigating officer also did not prepare an interrogation report of accused Rupesh Mhammal while he was in police custody. Admittedly, a chargesheet has been filed in this case before the judicial magistrate first class without effectively collecting any further evidence against the accused,” chairperson, A D Salkar, and member of the Goa human rights Commission, J A Keny, stated in the report. It goes on to add that Kerkar didn’t collect any scientific evidence including blood, hair and fabric for analysis. “It has caused serious prejudice to the victim. The investigation further reveals that the investigation officer recorded statements of the witnesses—Prakash Mhammal, Ravindra Gadekar, Kiran Purohit and Dattaram Mhammal. All these statements are identical in nature favouring the accused Rupesh Mhammal. It is impossible to believe that all these witnesses would give statements in an identical and stereotype manner,” the commission stated.  After completing the “eye wash investigation”, the investigation officer came to the conclusion that there was no incriminating evidence against the accused and submitted a final summary which was rejected by the JMFC, Mapusa, that directed the investigating officer to carry out further investigation, the report stated. Kerkar then asked the victim to provide CCTV footage and eyewitnesses which the commission has termed ‘ridiculous’ considering he admitted that he hadn’t seen the assailants. “It is also pertinent to note that the officer did not call or interrogate Mhammal after the JMFC order to conduct further investigation,” the inquiry report states.  Considering the “serious lapses in the matter of investigation” and “delaying the investigation without any justification” the commission has requested the director general of police Muktesh Chander to take personal interest in the case and take the investigation to a logical end and rectify lapses.