Mumbai: The need for a pause or respite in the midst of a demanding schedule is changing consumer behaviour, prompting marketers to tune strategies to a new frequency.

 The shift is dictated by the following factors: Consumers, assisted by the digital wave, have a 24/7 lifestyle. Many sleep irregular hours, work for days on end without a break, or binge on processed foods. From such transitions has emerged a realisation that a balance needs to be restored. Be it introducing natural products in the diet or frequent holidays to lesser-known destinations or seeking a brief hiatus at work through  , these are ways to offset the stressful effects of a demanding routine. Taking cues from such behaviour, marketers are providing products and services that enable consumers to restore balance.
 
 According to a   on the many facets of a changing consumer, shrinking family support structures and fast-paced work have combined to create a heightened sense of time compression — the need to perform increasing amounts of work in a given time period. “Multiple studies have placed Indian workers among the most stressed in the world. It is driving exponential growth in several categories, such as ready-to-cook or ready-to-eat products. The   in India has been growing at a rate of 30% annually for several years, more than tripling from $35 million in 2010 to over $120 million in 2015. Time compression is also behind a new set of business models that focus on convenience and offer end-to-end solutions,” the report says.
 
 Devendra Chawla, CEO, Future Consumer, said, “The whole narrative of preservative and artificial additives foods vs natural foods has stretched itself a little too far. A balance has to be restored in life. It’s like a mental debit-credit — when one eats too much sweet, you tell yourself you’ll run more or walk more or compensate by eating less at the next meal to neutralise it. We grew up very rooted with things like natural foods, nimbu pani and amla, there was a lot of natural goodness in the food we ate. Then the whole wave of processed and artificial food/flavours took over consumption in a major way. It is now seeing a balance with natural products recovering back some consumer space. Today, for every pizza, we balance by roti-sabzi the next day. Balance has to be restored to be able to make peace with ourselves. We see this trend growing in leaps and bounds.”
 
 The rise of   is attributed to such thinking. After Patanjali, a number of amla juice brands have cropped up in the market. The phenomenon has prompted consumer product companies to include a ‘natural’ element in their product portfolios. The trend is not restricted to   alone.
 
 Providing an analogy, Chawla says, “Think of Mumbai city as ‘processed’, where people either stay indoors in unnatural AC environs or venture out for work and face pollution. Taking a break for a few days on a mountain or at a beach balances that out.” Short and frequent breaks from the city has indeed bolstered the business of holidaying.
 
 Giridhar Seetharam, chief marketing officer, Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India, sees a noticeable change in the way families holiday now. “A lot of it is perhaps related to lifestyle changes, leading to a shift in perception about the need to holiday and more importantly the ‘how’,” says Seetharam, while pointing to trends which indicate that people are seeking breaks more frequently to relax and rejuvenate. In 2016, nearly 92% of Mahindra Holidays & Resorts members took multiple short-duration (2 to 4 days) holidays in a year rather than a single long duration holiday. Of these, over 50% members showed a preference for weekend getaways rather than taking time off during weekdays.
 
 Unlike earlier, where travel was all about seeing a destination, today it’s more about spending quality time with the family as well as health and wellness. “There was an increase of 22% in spends on spa facilities within our resorts in 2016 over the previous year. Feedback from our members tells us that unique and immersive experiences help families bond together and has a direct impact on their wellness and on improving workplace productivity,” says Seetharam.
 
 Given that the consumer is also an employee at work, organisations are ensuring they restore a balance between work and life. Emami Agrotech, a part of Emami Group, has introduced a programme of implementing Rockefeller Habits, which provides the benefit of prioritising on activities that yield the best result. “Any action that is repeated at a certain interval becomes a rhythm — in other words, a habit. The workshop teaches employees to get into the rhythm of daily work, so that less time and energy is spent on doing them as they form part of their habit, thereby conserving energy and mental well-being to feel more relaxed and stress-free while handling other tasks,” says an   spokesperson.
 
 
