MANGALURU: This rationalist has been soothsayers' worst nightmare. And this time it was the turn of   to get a taste of Rationalist medicine, when he was exposed by  , president of Federation of Indian Rationalist Associations. Nayak had conducted a sting to expose an astrologer whose clients were mostly women.

 The astrologer claimed to solve the problems of others, especially cures for sexual diseases. However he failed to predict his fate when encountered by the rationalist.
 
 Prof Nayak while exposing the astrologer had claimed this was a big racket thriving all over the state. True to his prediction, a woman came forward on Saturday claiming the astrologer had swindled her of money and sexually harassed her trying to rid of her problems.
 
 The   station has registered an FIR against the astrologer under Sections 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and Section 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property).
 
 Nayak had conducted the sting operation against the astrologer along with Pramila, a DYFI activist, posing as his daughter last week. Nayak said the `father-daughter duo' had gone to the astrologer saying the woman was married for eight years and sent home as she could not conceive. The pandit assured he could solve her problems and put forth demand for money. Later Nayak called the police and got him arrested, for various sections of the law for impersonation and cheating, when he failed to not see through Nayak's deception.
 
 After the sting operation, Nayak had given his cell phone number to the employees and owners of a laundry and hotel near the building where the astrologer operated requesting them to direct any victims who wanted to fight for their rights to get in touch with him.
 
 On Saturday, Nayak got a call a young woman who said that she had paid him Rs 9,000 and wanted to recover it from him. She narrated her ordeal to Nayak which included a couple of episodes of sexual harassment in the guise that her bad luck would continue due to some evil black magic done to her. The only one way the woman could get out of it was by going to bed him, the woman had narrated to Nayak. She had escaped two attempts of molestation from the astrologer and his `guru.'
 
 The woman, daughter of a separated couple is staying with her mother. As her father was not paying maintenance, their finances are not very sound. Having finished her graduation and not getting any job, she was desperate for employment. When no jobs were coming her way, she started losing hope. But, one day she saw the advert of the astrologer on a TV channel and decided to try out his services.
 
 After the case has been filed, two members of the Janvadi Mahila Sanhgatane have come forward to help the women in her search for justice. "We are also supporting her and I have promised to take her wherever needed. These thugs who exploit helpless women should get the maximum sentence under the law of the land. One can imagine the travails that a young woman has to go through as she has no one to protect her,'' said Nayak.
 
