Television, today, has garnered immense popularity — one which even films aspire to reach. Likewise, TV stars also command a sizable fan following and their clout among the masses is hard to ignore. Be it being mobbed, deluged with selfie requests or fan hysteria, images that were earlier associated only with movie stars is today a part of a TV star’s daily routine. BT gives you a dekko at the faces that send the TRPs soaring on   TV.
 
  
 
  Having started out as an anchor on a local TV channel in Mangaluru, Anushree has sure come a long way since. Following a stint on Bigg Boss Kannada Season 2, Anushree has enjoyed a golden run on Kannada television. She is a sought-after anchor, especially for reality shows and has previously hosted Chinnada Bete, Super Season 1 and 2, Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Little Champs Season 10 and 11 and Dance Karnataka Dance. She currently hosts the show Comedy Khiladigalu. Anushree is looking forward to a career in films too and has an upcoming release in Uppu Huli Khara.
  
  
  
  
 
  He plays the title role of Mahadev in the magum opus Har Har Mahadev. Needless to say, he now enjoys a cult status, courtesy his role as the Lord himself. Vinay has previously acted in the daily soap Ambari and is the winner of Super Jodi Season 1.
  
  
  
  
 
  Akul needs no introduction. Season after season, he remains one of the most-wanted anchors when it comes to hosting reality shows. Currently, he is the anchor of the immensely popular reality show Super Jodi. Akul dabbles with acting in Kannada films as well.
  
  
  
  
 
  He is well known as the 'Agnisakshi hero’. The project which was launched in 2014, is one of the most-watched daily soaps in Kannada. Vijay plays the role of Siddharth in this show and has clearly become the darling of the masses. He now also pursues a career in films and his turnout in the recent past — Nagathihalli Chandrashekar’s film Ishtakamya was much appreciated.
  
  
  
  
 
  The man behind Majaa Talkies! The comedy show remains one of the most popularly rated on Kannada TV and continues to notch the numbers even as it recently wrapped a 200 episodes. Also straddling a career in films, Srujan has today become a household name.
  
  
  
  
 
  She is the famed Gombe from the serial Lakshmi Baramma. Neha has earlier acted in serials like Anuvaada and Deepavu Ninnade Galiyu Ninnade. She has also done a daily soap in Telugu titled Swathi Chinukulu and another one in Tamil. Neha is the sibling of Kannada actor Sonu Gowda, so acting is in the genes for this lass.
  
  
  
  
 
  It’s a serial that was a hot-favourite among the meme squad, but fact remains that Putta Gowri Maduve is a favourite with the family audience. And the girl who plays the title role of Gowri, Ranjani Raghavan, is the apple of the eye among the female audiences given her genteel ways. Her popularity is what fetched Ranjani movie acting assignments and she will soon be seen in the movies Raja Hamsa and Subba Subbi.
  
  
  
  
 
  The TV show Amruthavarshini continues to garner the same attention from viewers as it did six years ago when it was first launched. Playing on prime time, Rajani is one half of the duo after which the serial is named. Amrutha (her character in the serial) is her mother-in-law’s darling and commands the same feeling even from her viewers. Rajani has also participated in the dance reality show Dancing Stars.
  
  
  
  
 
  His turnout as Chandu in the serial Lakshmi Baramma has earned him much praise. Shine started his career as an anchor on a local TV channel in Udupi. The serial Meera Madhava was his first break in the Kannada television world and soon he also played anchored on Swalpa Adjust Madkoli. Lakshmi Baramma came soon after.
  
