BHOPAL: You may have seen this teenaged boy rolling up paan for fans watching hockey matches at Aishbagh stadium. Now, they will queue up to watch him dribble. Meet Saurabh Pasine, the centre-half of the Indian team for the Asian School Hockey Championship that starts on April 2.

 Part-time student, part-time paanwallah and full-time hockey freak, 15-year-old Saurabh is on the threshold of seeing his dream come true — a dream undeterred by the cramped shack he grew up in, or the starry nights he slept under, hungry and anguished.
 
 “I know my family is going through tough times. But at the moment I am focused on playing for my country in the Asian championship,” Saurabh told TOI on Sunday. 
 
 Narrating how he got his first hockey stick brought tears to the boy’s eyes. “I was 11 when I first asked my father for a hockey stick. He couldn’t buy me a wooden stick, so he brought a plastic one. That’s how I started playing hockey,” said Saurabh. 
 
 Moved, his father Dilip Pasine said, “Saurabh was always obsessed with hockey. I had to borrow from friends to buy him a proper hockey stick. I haven’t been able to repay it.” He has never seen the boy play, however. “Who will watch the shop if both of us are gone? But this time, I have decided to watch all his matches in the Asian championship. Both my children wanted desperately to study but it became impossible for us. Now we hope they will see better days.”
 
 His family has lived in a little shack in Aishbagh locality — a stone’s throw from the stadium — for three decades. When guests turn up, the family has to sleep under the open sky as the shanty cannot squeeze in more than four persons. Saurabh has to help his father run the small paan-gumthi shop, their only earning. Her sister had to drop out of school and he gave his Class 10 exam as a non-regular student because they couldn’t pay the fees. 
 
 Despite such odds, Saurabh never lost his passion for the game. Living near the stadium, considered the hockey nursery of Bhopal, ignited the fire in him. “I used to see   players coming to play in tournaments like Obaidullah Gold Cup. I always dreamt of donning the Indian jersey and playing like them under the lights,” said Saurabh. 
 
 Former Olympian Sameer Dad spotted the talent. “He started playing with other kids at Aishbagh stadium where I used to coach. He is highly talented and has the potential to play for the senior team,” said Dad. 
 
