BELAGAVI: Following the gangrape of a college girl in Mutyanatti area on the outskirts of the city, city police are planning to create awareness on the preventive measures girls must take to avoid such incidents. 

 Several women organizations have been coming on to the streets condemning the incident since the case came to light on February 21. Many have been protesting demanding harsh punishment.
 
 A 17-year-old college girl was with her boyfriend near Kakati on February 15 when she was subjected to a four-hour-long assault by five youths from the nearby   village. The girl had gone for a ride with her boyfriend. 
 
 The police department plans to take up sensitization programmes from next week in all school and colleges. “It’s important that boys are told of the trauma that girls undergo after such incidents and girls must be told of the measures they must undertake to protect themselves,” said DCP (law and order) G Radhika speaking to STOI. 
 
 Channamma Pade, the women’s wing in the department, will visit schools and colleges and meet the management. DCP Radhika feels their campaign will be more effective if authorities of educational institutions step forward to sensitize the girls. “I am getting several calls from girls who don’t want to tell details of the incident at home because of the fear and stigma. We have trained   squad to act keeping the identity of the complainant safe”, Radhika said. 
 
 After the Nirbhaya case, colleges had voluntarily taken the initiative of sensitizing girls on sexual harassment. But it was not a continuous process. Maratha Mandal’s Pharmacy College has opened a Nirbhaya cell in its college. 
 
  Two more accused arrested
 
 In connection with the gangrape case, police arrested two more accused on Friday. Of the seven accused, four were arrested within 24 hours of the crime. 
 
 Police are probing all angles including the background of the accused and whether they have been involved in such cases in the past. 
 
 After the incident, police patrolling has been increased in Mutyanatti area falls in Kakati forest. It’s a deserted area and the accused took advantage of the situation as the couple was alone. 
 
 Rape survivor recovering
 
 The rape survivor is recovering and is being counselled. 
 
 “She is recovering and hopes to get back to her normal routine at the earliest. We have been building and boosting her confidence and are working at getting her out from the mental shock,” DCP G Radhika said. 
 
 
