AYODHYA: Giving a thumbs down to several BJP leaders who have raised the   issue in the midst of elections in Uttar Pradesh, prominent sadhus of Ayodhya's major religious akharas have said the outcome of the   will have no bearing on the prospects of the temple being built.

 No government in Lucknow can clear the way for the temple at `Ram janmabhoomi', said mahant Suresh Das, head of the Digambar akhara, whose predecessor Ramchandra Das Paramhans was one of the spearheads of the temple movement.
 
 “Vote ke liye yeh neta jhoot bolte hain (these politicians lie for the sake of votes),“ Das told TOI. “During the 2014 elections, they said the temple will be built after they have majority in the Lok Sabha. Now, they say they ne ed majority in Rajya Sabha.“
 
 Akharas are orders of militant ascetics with large presence in many holy cities. Ayodhya has three; all at some point were directly involved in the Babri Mosque-Ram Temple dispute. Like his pre decessor Paramhans, Suresh Das is aligned with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and reflected the group's militant views on the subject. “The temple movement hasn't ended, it has merely been suspended till 2018 to give time to the PM to clear the path,“ he added.
 
 Prominent priests from other akharas were even more cynical of the temple issue being raised during elections. “Before every election, we get a Ram mandir in Ayodhya! Ram has become BJP's polling agent,“ said mahant Gyan Das, head priest at Ayodhya's famous Hanumangar hi temple, also home to the town's largest Nirvani akhara. “Modiji has guts, we re spect him. If he wants he can call a joint session of Parliament to pass a law on the temple. But it must happen with harmony and the agreement of all. We want a temple smeared in milk, not blood,“ he added.
 
 Mahant Ram Das, head of the Nirmohi akhara which is one of the litigants in the title suit over the disputed Babri mosque-Ram janambhoomi land, agreed that the temple issue had no place in these elections.
 
 “The matter is in Supreme Court and let it decide it. The issue shouldn't be politicised. Anyway , the BJP has been raising it since 1989 and even rode to power on its back. Have they been able to build a temple?“ Ram Das asked. While some BJP leaders have spoken about the temple during these elections, the PM hasn't even visited Ayodhya, he pointed out. “The VHP too has no support. It can't even gather a decent crowd here,“ he added.
 
 Ayodhya goes to polls in the fifth phase on Monday .Like in the past, several mahants have taken political positions, some even aligning along caste lines. For instance, mahant Bhavnath Das from the Nirvani akhara has been canvassing for the  . Gyan Das too airs his preference for Akhilesh Yadav. The holy town and its holy men, it seems, remain as political as ever.
 
