NAGPUR: In an example of Nagpur University’s ( ) apathetic working, a huge disparity has come to fore in passing criterion for different   in semester and credit-based  . The   students of some courses while being unfair to others.

 In some undergraduate courses, such as Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Physical Education (BPEd) and LLB (three years), students need to score minimum passing marks separately in theory and internal assessment (IA). However, in the entire faculty of commerce (BCom, BCCA and BBA), and some BSc courses, students enjoy the ease of scoring any combination of marks to get the total minimum passing marks for a paper.
 
 For example, in the faculty of commerce, students need to get 40 out of 100 to pass with theory paper of 80 marks and 20 for IA. Thus, if they score 22 in theory and get 18 in IA from the college, they can easily pass. But, for courses like BA, BPEd and LLB, students have to score 40% each in theory and IA.
 
 Though there is a difference in examination scheme of both patterns, the marks are counted to ascertain credits. Thus, the combined passing rule is actually helping students pass the exam easily. However, the disparity is not restricted to any particular pattern, but is seen across semester pattern and credit-based semester pattern courses.
 
 Director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation Neeraj Khaty didn’t respond to TOI calls.
 
 NU had implemented both, the semester pattern and credit based semester pattern, for several undergraduate courses in 2016-17.
 
 In combined passing rule, the students have an advantage as generally colleges are generous in awarding IA marks. These marks are based on assignments like class test, attendance, home assignments, study tours, visit to educational institutes, research organizations, field work, group discussion or any other innovative practice or activity.
 
 Some teachers pointed out to TOI that this rule dilutes the importance of university exam. “Suppose a student worked hard for theory and scored 32 marks but the college teacher awarded 7 marks in IA, he will fail in the clubbing pattern. If another student gets 22 marks in theory and the teacher awarded 18 in IA, he will pass. This formula by   is flawed,” a teacher said.
 
 Citing the above example, they also said that if the pattern is followed for long, it will definitely bring the quality of education down. “No college wants its result to come down. So, even students who never attend classes get the maximum marks in IA.”
 
