Nagpur: Not long ago, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) used to provide two sets of schools uniforms to around 23,000 students right on first day of the new academic session. This year, only 10% students got uniforms despite opening of schools a month ago thanks to the central government’s direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme and the civic body’s negligence in implementing the scheme properly. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has now suggested the NMC to follow Pune municipal corporation’s pattern to combat with the hurdles. TOI in its report dated June 6 had reported about the hurdles in school uniforms due to DBT scheme. The NMC education department held meeting with representatives of all its schools on Saturday and obtained status of school uniforms to the students. As per the data, 2,238 of total 22,936 students purchased school uniforms, of which 1,439 students submitted receipts with the respective schools. Grant of school uniforms has been transferred into accounts of only 730 students. Due to the delay in getting school uniforms, the NMC students are reportedly attending the schools either wearing last year’s uniforms or in civil dress. Few of them are reportedly not attending the schools regularly. For years now, the NMC used to procure cloth and get uniforms stitched. It used to then distribute the uniform to the students on first day of the school. The civic body used to then adjust the grant received from the government. With launch of DBT scheme last year, the students have to purchase the uniforms and submit receipts with the schools. The schools then submits the list with education department that transfers grant into the accounts of the students. This year, instead of pre-planning, the NMC informed the students about change in the system after opening of schools. The students were asked to open back accounts by their name. The account, too, had to be linked with Aadhaar card.  NMC sources told TOI that around 40% students are yet to open bank accounts. “These students belong to financially weak families and are finding it difficult to spend Rs600 on purchase of two sets of uniforms. Also, a major problem is that the uniforms are not actually available at Rs300 per set. NMC used to manage uniforms in given amount by procuring cloth in bulk. Some students are complaining that banks are not permitting to withdraw the entire amount from accounts,” sources said. NMC teachers, too, are facing some problems. Leaving aside the primary job, the teachers are engaged in works such as helping the students in opening the accounts, getting their aadhaar enrolment done etc. Mayor Nanda Jichkar and other office bearers and corporators are stressed with problems being faced under the scheme. Senior corporator Dayashankar Tiwari said that the CM has suggested a good solution and problems will be solved soon. “A three-day workshop was organized for all BJP corporators at Mumbai which ended on Sunday. All corporators informed the CM about the problems. The CM explained Pune municipal corporation’s formula and suggested us to follow the same,” he said. Tiwari added that the NMC will ask banks to open accounts of all students under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana with zero balance and relaxation in number of documents. “NMC will identify shops or dealers and fix a rate. Then, the NMC will distribute DBT cards that are linked with accounts of the students and transfer grant. The students will be asked to get uniform from selected shops or dealers by submitting the cards. Pune has come up with this formula and ensured schools uniforms to all students complying DBT scheme,” he said.