GHAZIABAD: Ninety-five kiosks and other small structures were demolished in the trans-Hindon area in an ongoing anti-encroachment drive on Friday.

 Following district magistrate Nidhi Kesarwani's orders, Vasundhara Zone, parts of   and Vijaynagar were covered in the drive, which begain outside Indirapuram police station around 11.30am.
 
 According to sub-divisional magistrate Atul Yadav, “As many as seven kiosks, 38 smaller units and two Chinese counters were razed between Budh Chowk intersection and Atal Chowk. Further, three kiosks and 42 smaller units were razed in the area from Atal Chowk intersection to Sector 19 Vasundhara.”
 
 Illegal kiosks were also removed in parts of Vijaynagar and outside   station providing relief to many commuters. 
 
 “The encroachment on the roadsides is the main cause of traffic jams in this area apart from the cycle tracks. There is no place left for the commuters to drive on because these vendors occupy more than half of the road. The sale of drugs and other intoxicants happens under the garb of what is overtly sold at these kiosks. It’s good that the administration is removing them," said Rajesh Shukla, a resident of Angel Mercury, a residential society in Indirapuram. 
 
 The drive, however, leaves the daily wagers’ fundamental problems unaddressed. Shamshad Ali, president of Vendor Association, Indirapuram, said, “The administration has been giving us false hopes by telling us that they will conduct a survey for all of us (vendors) and provide us with a designated place in the city to operate from but it has been three years, and nothing has happened so far. Now even the government has changed, but they are busy with new anti-encroachment drives. What will we do? Where will we go?”
 
 Ali said that each   causes the vendors immense losses. 
 
 “We struggle for food for at least a week. Even two or three days ago, many of our association members were displaced from Bihari market in Indirapuram. The police are hand in glove with the administration.”
 
 
