LUCKNOW: Even as   upgrades its tax software to allow for online payment of dues, routine tax payers are having a hard time at the zonal offices. In the past few days, many of them have had to return without paying tax or fulfilling other tax formalities. 

 Ashok Arora, a resident of   who had gone to submit his tax dues to zone 3 office last week, said, “My father passed away a few years ago and we were too young then to understand the formalities. Since LMC never sent us any bill, I came here to inquire about pending dues but I was sent back without any help. The cashier told me to come after 20 days as they were busy upgrading the software.” He added that people take leaves from their offices, postpone other work or withdraw cash from banks to fulfill tax liabilities but LMC staff, overlooking what problems the public might face, is sending them back. “They should have informed us beforehand so that nobody even bothered to go to their zonal office,” he said. 
 
 People who are not even aware about their tax dues are worst hit as the LMC is unable to generate bills because of busy computers.  , a resident of Gomtinagar, said that she had to know the total tax bills of the past 10 years but the cashier was unable to produce them. “He said I could submit cash if I knew the taxable amount but will not be able to give me the bill immediately. How is a person supposed to pay tax if she doesn’t even know the exact bill amount?”
 
 Some people also questioned the timing of the upgradation, claiming that LMC gives 10% rebate to those who pay tax in the first quarter, that is from April-June, of any year but because of this initiative they would not be able to avail of the rebate.  , who owns a shop in Aliganj, said that since it was a commercial unit, he could have saved a substantial amount by paying tax in the first quarter but had not been able to avail this discount this year.
 
 However, LMC maintained that the system will take some time and people will have to be patient to enjoy better services. Additional municipal commissioner   said, “Until now, we were using intranet which gives a certain speed. To run this software, we will deploy broadband for faster speed. Until then, people will have to cooperate.” 
 
