Chandigarh: State Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum directed Emaar MGF Limited to pay Rs 1.34 crore (approximately) to four complainants for delay in delivery of the plots. They were further directed to pay Rs 5.50 lakh as compensation and Rs 1.32 lakh as cost of litigation.

 The complaints were filed by Sukhvinder, a resident of Sector 21, Panchkula, Rajender Kumar Mehta, a resident of Sector 17, Panchkula, Ankit Satija, a resident of Sector 11, Rohini, New Delhi and Devi Lal Banga, a resident of Sector 44, Chandigarh. As the complaints of all were similar, the four complaints were disposed of by passing one consolidated order.
 
 All the complainants had invested their money in different projects launched by Emaar MGF in Mohali including Augusta Park, Sector 109 and Pinewood Park in Sector 108. The complainants had alleged that despite paying huge amounts the realtors did not hand over the possession of plot within stipulated time. It was also alleged that the offer of possession was given in the year 2016, without completing the development work and without having the completion certificate from the competent authorities.
 
 In their defence, the relators stated that they had “proposed” to hand over possession of the unit within 24 months. “It is well settled principle of law that in cases of sale of immovable property and construction, time is never regarded as the essence of the contract. It was further stated that the complainant had voluntarily agreed the alleged delay, as their interest was safeguarded by compensation clause in the agreement and the realtor had committed to bear the penalty for delayed possession, if any, beyond the time frame stipulated under the agreement, at the time of registration of the plot.
 
 The forum after hearing both sides held that there was a material violation on the part of the realtors in not handing over physical possession of the unit within the stipulated date. The complainants were at liberty not to accept the offer made after a long delay, and are right in seeking refund of the amount deposited, along with interest and compensation. Emaar MGF was then directed to refund the money deposited by the clients along with an interest of 12%.
 
 
