After a eight-year-long wait, fans of   are having a wonderful time meeting the   for the last five days. At the fan meet, earlier this week, Rajinikanth clarified that he did not support any political party and kept his fans guessing about his entry into politics. On Day 5 of the meeting, today, the Superstar dropped hints that he might take a plunge into politics soon. 

 The Superstar asked his fans to stay calm while there is opposition. Telling a story in his usual style on what we do to grow a plant, he said, "First, we start by digging a hole, putting the seeds, and covering it with mud and fertilisers. By closing the hole this way, we put pressure on the seed, so that it grows. So, all our opposition is like mud and fertilisers — they will help us grow."
 
 Hinting that he is hoping to take a plunge into politics, Rajinikanth shared yet another story. "In the olden days, the kings had only a small army, in thousands. When there is a war, all the men in the kingdom join the army and go to battle. Until then, they would be doing their daily works. The reason there were physical games in those days was to keep the men physically fit and strong. Just like that, you all have your work and fulfill your responsibilities. And so do I. When the battle comes, let's see. God is there," concluded Rajinikanth with his stylish laughter. 
 
 Interestingly, only few days earlier, he had said, "I am not joining any political party. Politicians have turned politics into business. Some politicians misused my name and even made a lot of money out of it. Only God will decide my future. As of now, he is using me as an actor and I am acting. If he asks me to take up something, I will do it with the same responsibility. If a situation arises when I have to enter politics, I will not let some people get close to me." 
 
 The Superstar's decision to meet fans set tongues wagging in the political circles. The actor had whipped up a storm in Janauary when he termed the political atmosphere in the state "unusual" while speaking at an event held in the city. 
 
 Looks like the Superstar is garnering all the support he can before taking the plunge or is testing the support he has got before announcing his entry into politics. Only time will tell. 
 
