For a long time, Kollywood peeps have been keeping their plans pertaining to films stories, genre, hero characterisations, their appearance, casting, etc, a secret. This has always proved to be successful in creating the required hype for projects, thus keeping film enthusiasts eagerly awaiting the release of a film. There have been several instances where people have waited with bated breath to get a glimpse of movies that they didn't have the patience to catch in theatres. Quite interestingly, of late, filmmakers seem think that revealing key portions from their film is a better way to kindle interest among movie aficionados. Check out a few films in the recent time where the makers didn't shy away from experimenting with this new strategy.

 
 
 There have been only a few cases where sequels have worked. Venkat Prabhu's Chennai 600028 II: Second Innings, which released last year, was indeed a true sequel, with the characters in the first instalment maintaining their body language and enthusiasm intact in the second part, too. The film was as funny as it's part one, which released almost a decade ago. The team released a 20-minute video on YouTube featuring several funny scenes which were deleted from the final version.
 
 
 
 The news that Vikram is joining hands with Gautham Menon in a film, which is set in the US, was more than enough for their fans to rejoice. The uber cool look of the actor, with him sporting a salt-and-pepper look for the first time, was released by the makers first, but little did the fans know that they were in for a better surprise -as the two-and-a-half minute stylish teaser of the film comprised a crucial scene, unlike the regular ones, leaving the viewers wanting for more.
 
 
 
 One of the much-awaited films last year was the Vijay Antony-starrer Saithan, thanks to the musician-turned-actor's track record. The team behind the mysterious thriller directed by Pradeep Krishnamoorthy surprised everyone with their bold move to reveal the intriguing first five minutes from the film.Quite elated with the strategy , they went on to reveal four more minutes from the movie after 10 days. The tactic worked to an extent in bringing the crowd to theatres during the initial days.
 
 
 The film has already generated enough hype among movie buffs, thanks to the combination of Selvaraghavan and Yuvan Shankar Raja. Amidst the performance of SJ Suryah and the spookiness involved, it was the BGM which was much raved about in the film's trailer. The team is now planning to release the original BGM track of the film before it hits the screens, something which is completely new for Kollywood. What better way than cash in on Yuvan's magical music and craze?
 
 
 
 Buoyed by the response to Rajathanthiram, the heist film which released in 2015, its makers decided to make a sequel to it last year. Interestingly, they announced that the initial six minutes from the project, Rajathanthiram 2, will be released online to attract the audience. The second instalment directed by Senthil Veerasamy, starring Veera, Ajai Prasath, Darbuka Siva, etc, will have no songs, though the background score has been composed by Ilaiyaraaja. 
 
