NEW  : Far from changing the equations in the legislative  , the victory of   in the   constituency is being seen in the light of what it portends for the municipal elections to be held in the capital on April 23. Manjinder Singh Sirsa’s triumph will merely take his party’s tally to four in the 70-member House, but it could, or so party elders hope, propel BJP to power for the third successive term in the municipal corporations.

 Having lost the same seat to Aam Aadmi Party’s Jarnail Singh in 2015, Sirsa regained the constituency that he had won earlier in 2013. He beat Meenakshi Chandela of   by 14,652 votes and left   some way behind in third position to boost the chances of his party in the civic body polls. BJP members happily claimed that the result signified the people’s acceptance of PM Narendra Modi’s development agenda and a complete rejection of AAP’s politics.
 
 Significantly, Sirsa won at a crucial time in a constituency where BJP has tasted victory in only one of the four wards ever — the Rajouri Garden ward in 2012. In the municipal polls of 2007 and 2012, Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party had captured the seats. “This time, we got the maximum votes in all four wards,” exulted Sirsa, who garnered 51% of the votes polled.
 
 Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said that the bye-election result made it clear that people no longer subscribed to AAP’s politics. Though Congress candidate Meenakshi Chandela came in second to demonstrate a definite resurgence, the saffron party was not unduly worried. “Congress was in the third position at Ajay Maken’s own polling booth. They are a spent force,” said Sirsa dismissively.
 
 
 
 
 Congress took hope in the fact that its vote share went up sharply from 2015. The party interpreted this to mean that its traditional constituency of the poor was beginning to renew its trust in it. Coming on the heels of victories in five of the 13 municipal wards — AAP won 5 and BJP 3 —in last year’s by-polls, the party now is more optimistic of mounting a strong challenge to both AAP and BJP on April 23.
 
 “The Congress party received only 12% votes in the 2015 assembly elections, but increased this vote share to 33% votes in this bye-election,” said Delhi Congress chief Maken. “Within two years, Congress has achieved a 300% growth in vote share due to the tireless efforts of its workers.”
 
 However, it will be a daunting task for Congress to transfer this positive trend into a victory in the coming civic body polls, particularly in the face of infighting over ticket distribution. 
 
 But it was certainly re-energised and Maken immediately fired a shot, saying, “Delhi’s people have rejected Arvind Kejriwal and his ill governance. This poll was a referendum on the Delhi CM, and AAP has suffered a humiliating loss within two years of coming to power.”
 
 
 
 
 Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy, Manish Sisodia, however, refuted that Thursday’s results would impact the municipal polls, saying the issues involved were different. Sisodia did admit that the voted reflected anger against AAP, but he said it was over the party’s decision to have sitting MLA Jarnail Singh contest in Punjab rather than at the performance of the AAP government.
 
 A senior AAP leader chose to fall back on the argument that one result did not necessarily indicate a trend. He cited data from the Delhi Cantonment Board elections held in January 2015 to prove his point. BJP had won with 36% of the votes, leaving AAP in third position with a 24% vote share. However, in February 2015 in the Vidhan Sabha polls, he pointed out, AAP had got 52% of the votes, while BJP got 37% and Congress, a poor 9%.
 
 Saying that the party would pull up its socks, Sisodia argued, “After winning 282 seats in the Lok Sabha, BJP too lost many bye-elections.” He said AAP would tell people about the good work the government has done and win the corporation polls handsomely. 
 
 
