NEW DELHI:   al-Qaida recruiter   has told his interrogators that he was contacted by associates of Dawood Ibrahim in a Bangladesh jail. This has confirmed the Indian intelligence agencies’ information that  , was actively participating in terror activities in India with the support of ISI.

 Rahman is said to have revealed to intelligence officials that a man named Farooq, claiming to be a core member of D-Company, met him during a walk in Dhaka Jail and offered to supply weapons and ammunitions for him to carry out strikes in India, sources have told TOI.
 
 The meeting took place late in 2016. Farooq apparently claimed to be well aware of Rahman’s links with   and directed him to another D-Company operative, Rouf, who Rahman was supposed to contact after his release in April 2017, an officer disclosed.
 
 “Farooq told me to create an ID on Protective Text using which Rouf was to contact me upon my release. He said, ’Ek baar unse raabta ho jaaye to saare asle aasani se haasil ho jaayenge’. I made an ID (***2) and conveyed it to Farooq,” Rahman told his interrogators.
 
 The Special Cell has confirmed the identity of Rouf and Farooq as associates of D-Company and is digging further into their roles. Rouf was in an Indian jail last year and had been deported after release. Recently, the intelligence agencies had also linked Shamshul Hoda, another D-Company man, with the cases of train derailment in India.
 
 Police said on Tuesday that Rahman was in police custody for 10 days. The accused is being confronted with evidence against him. According to sources, police have identified some of the people he recruited for terror activities and are also close to nabbing the person with whom Rahman was scheduled to go to Manipur.
 
 The Special Cell has contacted Dhaka Police for more information on Rahman. Delhi Police is also likely to interrogate the two men, Adnan and Tenzil, who were arrested along with Rahman in Bangladesh in 2014 and are currently lodged in Dhaka Jail. TOI reported on Tuesday of how Rahman indoctrinated the sons of a former judge and a bureaucrat in that country.
 
 Cops say that the al-Qaida activist was also in touch with around a dozen Rohingya refugees whom he had recruited for jihad. These men will be tracked down and deported, sources claimed.
 
 Meanwhile, police commissioner Amulya Patnaik briefed Union home minister Rajnath Singh about the operation.
 
