PUDUCHERRY:   elephant Lakshmi, which suffers from severe foot rot disease, needs immediate veterinary care and much-needed rehabilitation in a sanctuary until she recovers completely, pleaded People for ethical treatment of animals (PeTA) in a representation to the Puducherry government while quoting an inspection report by the Animal welfare board of India (AWBI). 

 AWBI which assessed the mental and physical health of 25-year-old Lakshmi submitted a report raising animal welfare issues and health and safety concerns of the elephant. "The custody of Lakshmi by Sri Manakula Vinayagar temple is illegitimate.Lakshmi needs immediate veterinary care and enrichment of environment by appropriate association with other elephants in a rehabilitation and care centre to avoid further permanent damage especially to the mental status," said the report.
 
 The foot rot, if left in current condition will eventually aggravate and make her suffer even more..She must be moved to a forested sanctuary where she can be kept unrestrained, undergo treatment until complete recovery. She must live amongst nature, be supplied with ample food and water and have opportunity to socialize with other elephants, go for long walks and bathe in rivers and streams etc., added the report.
 
 While the Tamil Nadu government takes adequate care in keeping temple elephants in a hale and healthy state by holding rejuvenation camps for the pachyderms every year the Puducherry government remained insensitive in the well-being of Lakshmi until animal rights' activists intervened. The government started sending the elephant to rejuvenation camps organized by the Tamil Nadu government for the past three or four years following their intervention.
 
 Denying Peta's charges Puducherry deputy conservator of forests G Sathiyamoorthy said all the concerns raised by the activists have been addressed. "Lakshmi has been accommodated in a spacious enclosure with soil flooring. We have made arrangement for adequate availability of water for the elephant. We have been following the special diet module prescribed by the experts at the experts at rejuvenation camps every year. Lakshmi has been attending Tamil Nadu government's camps for the past three or four years," said Sathiyamoorthy.
 
 However the Puducherry government and temple trust were reluctant to send Lakshmi to a sanctuary for undergoing treatment until complete recovery as recommended by AWBI. "Captive elephants cannot survive in forested sanctuary," reasoned   officer K Coumarane.
 
 The issue acquired political overtones when Lt Governor Kiran Bedi while endorsing the board's views directed the government to ensure adequate care and rehabilitation of the elephant. The Congress government cashed upon the issue and accused Bedi for failing to understand the sentiments of Tamil people and attempting to send the elephant to forest.
 
 
