NAGPUR: Rattled by the BJP attack led by   on Shiv Sena performance in  , Sena’s spokesman and Rajya Sabha member   on Wednesday asserted it would hardly make any difference and his party would retain power in  .

 Claiming that Shiv Sena was invincible in Mumbai, he said power in Mumbai corporation mattered more and it was more prestigious than chief ministership of the state. “No wonder Devendra Fadnavis is concentrating all his energies in trying to malign Sena to gain power over BMC. But then it is a fact that Sena cannot be defeated or wished away in Mumbai,” said Raut.
 
 Asked why party chief Uddhav Thackeray found no time for campaigning in Nagpur, Raut evaded a reply but admitted ‘technical glitches’ in distributing party tickets for   (NMC) elections. Though the party was claiming to have fielded 131 candidates, only 85 of them could manage to get party symbol of ‘bow and arrow’. The remaining will be contesting as independents with Sena support. 
 
 Raut reiterated the Fadnavis government was ‘on notice’ from January 26, the day Sena severed political ties with the BJP. However, he could not say when the party would withdraw support to the state government.
 
 Raut was in the city to campaign for party candidate Anil Dhawade and others and addressed small meetings at five places. “CM who is finding faults with BMC would do better in improving law and order situation in his home turf. Nagpur today is the crime capital of the state with people, especially women, unable to step out of their homes,” said Raut. “This is no surprise since the BJP has become biggest recruiter of goons and is protecting them,” he added.
 
 Putting to rest speculation that the BJP and Sena would join hands for power after the municipal election results are out, Raut said Thackeray had made it clear that never in future would his party work with the BJP. “Our party’s growth has been stunted because of alliance with BJP in last 25 years. We will be on our own and strengthen our position in the state and nationally,” he stressed.
 
 As part of this plan, the Sena will embark on Mission 50 drive in Vidarbha by which it will improve network and organizational presence so as to win 50 assembly seats in the region. “In coming days, we will focus on Vidarbha and revive the party to old glory days,” said Raut. In the last state elections, party could barely win four of the 66 seats here.
 
