CHENNAI: City   are now going beyond the confines of   to seek funds for patients struggling to meet   through  . 

 At least 22 doctors have helped find financial resources through crowdfunding to meet the treatment expenses of around 350 patients, many of who were children requiring transplants and those suffering from cancer.
 
 The family of a 6-year-old girl with leukemia who needed Rs 10 lakh for chemotherapy, an eight-month-old boy born to his parents 20 years into their marriage who required a liver transplant – every doctor present at a press meet held on Tuesday bore testimony to the gratitude and relief of anxious families.
 
 “It isn’t just the poor who struggle. We’ve seen middle-income couples, some who have already spent exorbitantly for fertility treatments, running from door-to-door seeking money for their children’s surgeries,” said Revathi Raj, paediatric haematologist, who refers some of her patients to Bengaluru-based crowfunding platform Milaap.
 
 Doctors say monetary issues also delay treatment. “It is shameful if we lose a patient just because they can’t afford treatment. Sometimes, we take time off to write to numerous people in desperation,” said senior surgeon Dr Priya Ramachandran of Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust hospital, who also raises funds for children with cancer. She said oncologists in particular find it difficult as they have to play the role of doctors and counselors. “We also need to help them find a way out. Crowdfunding has been a great resource,” she said. 
 
 Crowdfunding is the practice of funding a project or venture by raising money online from a large number of people who each contribute a relatively small amount. 
 
 Anoj Viswanathan, co-founder of Milaap, said the platform receives a lot of requests for raising funds for medical needs. “Doctors have been setting up fundraisers for patients in need within their capacity for some time now. A tie-up with crowdfunding sites can speed up the process and help them reach out to more people,” he said. He said donors can also authenticate the request for funds by contacting the respective doctors whose details will also be available on the site. 
 
 
