Greater Noida: Shaurya Kohli is just 16, and stands at a modest five feet, eight inches. But he would be feeling much taller than that after being the lone player from Delhi-NCR to be selected among a group of 21   players chosen for training at the country’s first   academy that was officially opened in Greater Noida on Tuesday.

 He was born in a cricket-crazy country, and that too a Kohli, but Shaurya picked Satnam Singh Bhamara, the first player from India to be drafted into the NBA, as his role model. It was Bhamara’s path that he also wanted to follow. His final selection for the NBA training follows a tough three-month, nationwide talent hunt. For the next three years, Kohli will rub shoulders with players like him at the Jaypee Greens Integrated Sports Complex in Greater Noida.
 
 Speaking to TOI, this Class XI student of Army Public School, Noida, said he was thrilled to have got through the two-tier selection trials held in Kolkata and Noida to be eligible for free training at the NBA academy.   (NBA) had conducted tryouts in six regions — Mumbai, Delhi, Ludhiana, Kochi, Chennai and Kolkata — and finally selected 21 out of the top 45 prospects earlier this year.
 
 Son of Shehzada, a colonel in the Indian Army and former basketball player, and Anupam, a doctor, Kohli has been playing basketball since he was 13. “I was introduced to the game by my elder brother (Shaahn) and since then, I have never stopped being fascinated by it. I’m looking forward to my training stint,” he beamed after a vigorous 40-minute training session with coach  , a former professional player and NBA scout who has coached across Africa.
 
 “India has a long way to go as far as facilities and sponsorship are concerned, but this exciting and fast-paced game is gaining popularity in the country,” said the Noida boy who is now dreaming of being picked up in the NBA draft. 
 
 The newly opened academy in Greater Noida is the   globally. It will be fully funded by the NBA. 
 
 “The opening of our first academy in India is a milestone in the NBA’s efforts to grow basketball in India, and demonstrates our commitment to shaping the game’s future here,” said NBA deputy commissioner Mark Tatum at the formal launch of the academy on Tuesday. 
 
 “This initiative is not about finding more sponsors or marketing partners. It’s about developing elite basketball prospects,” Tatum said.
 
