BANUR: Six masked men armed with guns blocked the path of a cash van of a private bank, fired at its driver, snatched a gun of a   and fled with Rs 1.33 crore in a   outside   on the busy   on Tuesday.

 The incident occurred around 9.30 am when the van carrying cash from Chandigarh’s Sector 34 branch of Axis Bank to Rajpura reached the last gate of the university along the Patiala road. A Mahindra Scorpio SUV plying right ahead stopped it near an under-construction elevated road. Five people, who were following the van in a Honda Amaze car, jumped out, pointing revolvers at the staff sitting inside the van.
 
 While two each stood on either sides of the van, the fifth man shot at the front tyre (driver side) of the vehicle and then at the driver, Sukhwant Singh, injuring him in the arm. All six had their faces covered with handkerchiefs.
 
 In the commotion that followed, two of the gang members snatched the rifle of the security guard and asked him and two other employees to step out. They then made them sit on the ground with hands at the back of their heads. They asked them to get up and run for their lives by firing several shots on the ground and a few in the air. All security staff of the university also ran for cover.
 
 As the security guard and the two employees fled towards a newly-constructed hospital building right opposite Chitkara University, the gang members brought out a cutter, opened the van’s hatch and pulled out the trunk carrying cash. They also cut off the chain holding the trunk inside the van. The placed the trunk in the Scorpio and fled towards Rajpura, leaving behind the Honda Amaze.
 
 Police suspect that they could have escaped to neighbouring state of Haryana using some link roads through villages.
 
 As the word spread, a team of senior officials of the state headquarters, including ADGP law and order Rohit Choudhary, IGP (counter intelligence) Nilabh Kishore along with Patiala range IG A S Rai and DIG Sukhchain Singh Gill reached the spot.
 
 A S Rai said while the angle of an active gang having executed the robbery was discussed, preliminary investigations revealed local connection (Rajpura).
 
 Sources told TOI that Chandigarh police have also been roped in for the investigations, who have confirmed that the Honda Amaze in which five persons were travelling followed the cash van from Sector 34, while the Scorpio intercepted it near Banur and brought it to a halt near Chitkara University.
 
 Rai said they had already identified some persons from Rajpura, who could have possibly executed the crime and arrests would follow soon.
 
 Meanwhile, the police detained the security guard and two employees for grilling and also questioned some of the eye-witnesses. A case under relevant Sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Arms Act was registered at the Banur police station.
 
 Car left behind snatched from govt employee
 
 The Honda Amaze car, which the robbers left behind, was traced to Nirbhay Singh, a Rajpura-based government official. He had reported that two armed men had snatched his car from him at gunpoint on April 11 from Rajpura. Nirbhay, who reached the spot of the crime, identified the vehicle to be his own.
 
 Forensic experts collect evidence
 
 A team of forensic experts of the state police reached the spot and collected vital evidence from the spot. The experts also examined the Honda Amaze car and lifted finger prints from its boot, steering wheel and rear-view mirror.
 
 CCTV Footage
 
 Investigators collected CCTV footage from various points across the roads leading from Sector 34, Chandigarh, to Rajpura. It was learnt that the cash van left Sector 34 and took the airport road towards Banur and later took the Patiala-Chandigarh road towards Rajpura. The cops have secured CCTV camera footage from outside Chitkara University. But these are not clear and accused could not be identified immediately. These were sent to cyber cell. Footage from other CCTV cameras installed at various points along the roads from Sector 34 to Banur are also being scrutinised, police sources said.
 
 Driver out of danger
 
 The driver was taken to Rajpura Civil Hospital, from where he was referred to Rajindra Hospital at Patiala. Doctors at Rajindra Hospital who are attending to driver Sukhwant Singh said he was out of danger as he had sustained injury on the arm below the shoulder and was responding well to the medication.
 
 OLD CASES
 
 Two cash vans of Axis Bank have been looted in a similar fashion, one in Mohali in 2015 and other on Siswan-Pinjore road in 2013
 
 On March 9, 2015, eight robbers had looted Rs 1.34 crore from Sector 85, Mohali. Robbers had used an SUV in the robbery that was snatched from a local resident
 
 Accused were arrested within 36 hours
 
 A local court awarded them seven-year jail term
 
 Police had recovered Rs 1.28 crore, and seized two .32 bore pistols, axes, iron rods and packets of red chili used during the robbery
 
 A sum of Rs 1.68 crore was looted in the 2013 robbery.
 
