AHMEDABAD:  , a Gujarati sweetmeat consumed in winters for strength and energy, is also a colloquial euphemism for a severe thrashing. Interestingly, a survey of over 500 men suffering   (ED) has revealed that methi or fenugreek extracts combined with an amino acid can perk up a beaten libido back into action.

 The study conducted by sexologist Dr   over three years from 2012-15 found that 81% of the 540 men between 35-65 years of age who had both ED and high cholesterol reported to experience normal erections after 12 weeks of therapy .
 
 The therapy included 12 weeks of daily dose of 5gm of extract of fenugreek and L-Arginine, an amino acid that helps make proteins.
 
 “Over 80% men with ED reported normal sex life after 12 weeks of therapy while 71% par ticipants also reported a significant drop in the bad cholesterol levels which reduced by around 20%,“ said Dr Shah. He added the remaining patients may not have responded probably because of co-morbid factors like smoking, tobacco, alcohol, obesity and uncontrolled dia betics. He said there have been national and international research papers on use of fenugre ek and L-Arginine to enhance  .
 
 “Independently the se are reported to have a positive effect but our study proves that it works better as a combination the rapy ,“ said Dr Shah.
 
 L-arginine is an amino acid which bedhartha comes the gas nitric oxide (NO) in the body. NO is important to erectile function because this gas helps blood vessels relax so more oxygen-rich blood can circulate through the arteries. Fenugreek has the ability to promote natural testosterone levels and improve libido.
 
 Fenugreek contains phytochemicals called saponins and sapogenins, which are credited with raising testosterone levels and improving libido. “However, fenugreek extract needs to be taken as one will have to eat at least 100 seeds,“ said Dr Shah.
 
 Ayurveda practitioner Dr Yuva Aiyer said fenugreek helps with libodo as it is a hormone regulator both in men and women. “It is also used extensively in treating diabetes, indigestion and inflammation of intestines, among others,“ said Dr Aiyer.
 
