There seems to be an association between sudden   upon standing up - a condition called orthostatic hypotension and an increased risk for dementia, according to a new study and researchers at the   Bloomberg School of Public Health. This study of 11,000 middle-aged people found that those who suffered from orthostatic hypotension were 40 per cent more likely to develop   later in life.

 The authors speculated that middle-aged adults, who suffer from brief episodes of dizziness when they stand due to a temporary drop in blood pressure, may lead to hypoxia [lack of oxygen] which in turn has a detrimental effect on brain tissue. This may also indicate serious cognitive decline as they reach old age.
 
 However, both high and low blood pressure has been linked with reduced brain health, so the question for physicians and for patients is to find the right balance in blood pressure control.
 
 Orthostatic hypotension is diagnosed as a drop of at least 20 points in systolic blood pressure and at least 10 points in diastolic blood pressure.
 
 Further it’s long been known that orthostatic hypotension can cause brief episodes of reduced blood flow to the brain. Also, prior research has shown that in the elderly, reduced blood flow in the brain can contribute overtime to brain dysfunction.
 
 As always, physicians are urged to discuss with their patients their overall medical conditions, and co-existing conditions, such as dizziness and falls, their treatment preferences, as well as the risks and benefits of monitoring and treating hypertension.
 
 However, it is not possible to tease out for certain whether the orthostatic hypotension is an indicator of some other underlying disease or whether the drop in blood pressure itself is the cause.
 
 Early identification of risk factors can lead to development of possible strategies for timely prevention and treatment of the disease where orthostatic hypotension can be one of them. 
 
 Our blood pressure changes almost on a minute-by-minute basis depending upon our activities and mental state. Now is the time to think about ideal blood pressure as it changes throughout life.
 
 No one should ever stop any medication without careful consultation and monitoring by a physician.
 
 
 
 
