AHMEDABAD: When the Ahmedabad zonal office of   (NCB) searched the residence of a   on January 22, it had found a   (hashish) concealed in a flower pot. It had received a tip-off about the woman possessing contraband. It was clearly an offence under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. 

 Hari Om Gandhi, zonal director, NCB said that they could sense that something was amiss. 
 
 "We decided to first check the facts as the woman had no idea what the black substance was, and we believed her," he said. 
 
 "Subsequent investigation revealed that her spurned lover had planted 580 grams of charas having a market value of Rs 3.5 lakh to implicate her in a drug case. The man, identified as Dinesh Prajapati, was arrested for this on January 25," Gandhi said. 
 
 It was not a simple case of drug seizure by the NCB. Over a period of one week, what came to light was a Bollywood-style revenge story.
 
 NCB officials said that a man, identifying himself as Raj Kothari, had approached the agency earlier in January and told the officials that he had information about a woman running a drug racket. He promised them to give a definite input once he got any information. On January 22, Kothari informed the officials that charas was concealed in the woman's residence at Ghatlodia.
 
 "When the team reached her home that very day, she was astonished and provided the team full support in its investigation. A search revealed the contraband concealed in a flower pot. The woman and a tenant living on the same premises were questioned thoroughly but they claimed innocence," an official said.
 
 Repeated questioning did not fetch anything but one question led the investigators in the right direction. The woman recalled hosting a man named, Dinesh, for 4-5 days in the month.
 
 "When she showed us the photograph of 'Dinesh', we were surprised that it was the same man posing as Raj Kothari who had provided the tip-off. We questioned her further about Dinesh. We learnt that the woman, a divorcee, had a brief relationship with him earlier but as Dinesh was married, it did not go any further," the official said.
 
 Dinesh, a resident of   on Vejalpur Road and son of a textile unit owner, had not taken the rejection lightly. He allegedly started harassing her after which she was forced to file a complaint against him with Sola police station. The NCB verified the fact after which the officials summoned Dinesh on January 24. He said that he was not feeling well and that he would come the next day.
 
 "He was questioned rigourously," said an NCB official. 
 
 "He confessed that due to the woman's rejection, he wanted to implicate her in a serious drug case where she would be jailed for a long period of time. He tried to procure hashish from a friend but when the latter declined, he got it from a contact and approached the woman recently on the pretext of reconciliation. He hid the contraband and then approached the NCB to inform the bureau about the drug," said the official. One of Dinesh's friends later corroborated this version of the incident.
 
 Gandhi said that Dinesh had been arrested on the charges of conspiracy, maliciously giving false information, and procuring drugs. "Questioning is on to ascertain the source of the contraband and whether more persons were involved," Gandhi said.
 
