KOLKATA: A day after Garia resident   (24) killed herself by jumping in front of a Metro train at   station, her husband Shontu (39) faced perhaps one of the most crucial choices of his life: whether or not to shift his four-year-old son, Soumajit, to a  .

 His relatives want the child — who had also fallen on to the tracks, along with his mother, suffering severe injuries to his head, left hand and eyes — shifted, although doctors have warned against it.
 
 “We want to shift him to a nursing home closer to our house,” Shontu said. 
 
 It’s a crucial decision, but he has steeled himself, vowing not to break down. “Soumajit is my life. When I was leaving for work at 11.30am on Saturday, he clung to me and refused to let go. Mou had to use force to keep him home. I think he had sensed something amiss. My priority now is to take care of him. I will discuss his future with those who are also concerned about it after he is declared fully fit. Until then, his heath is my only concern. I will not let him be scarred for life,” he said. “I will also play his mother’s role. My family and my in-laws will ensure that Soumyajit grows up to become a good human being,” he added.
 
 Shontu, owner of a metal-welding unit in Behala, dated Mou for three years before they got married seven years ago. They lived in a rented house with their only son who goes to a nursery in New Alipore.
 
 No one has, as yet, identified why Mou chose to do what she did. Her mother-in-law, Sushama, still can’t believe it. “She was an ideal daughter-in-law, who was no less than my daughter. Why she took Soumajit along with her is something we might never know,” she said. Their neighbour   and Shontu’s landlord Prasanta Jana echoed her. “The couple never argued. We never heard the two speaking loudly. This incident is shocking,” Jana said.
 
 “Mou used to visit my in-laws every evening. Around 6pm, I called her up but she did not answer. I repeatedly called up after that but did not receive any answer. Sensing trouble, I called up my mother-in-law, who said Mou had left around 6pm with Soumajit, saying she wanted to take him to a local park,” Shontu added.
 
 A police officer said Mou had been seen standing next to a pillar on the platform with Soumyajit. “An RPF officer told her not to stand so near the tracks. When the train entered, she jumped with the child held tightly in her arms. We have started to investigate,” the officer said.
 
