CHANDIGARH: The   has held that a person appointed at the pleasure of the government in a commission had no legal right to continue in the office. HC was also of the view that even if term of office for chairperson or members had been specified in the notifica tion, the appointees couldn't claim it as legally enforceable right, if the body was non-statutory.

 Justice Rajesh Bindal of the HC passed these orders while dismissing a petition filed by  , former   (HPCC) chief and ex-minister, challenging the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government's decision to re move him from the post of chairman of   for Scheduled Castes. Other members of the commission who were removed along with Mullana had challenged their removal before HC. The petitioners had also questioned the Khattar government's move to disband several commissions constituted by the previous regime.
 
 According to the notifi cation, Mullana was appointed for three years by the Bhupinder Singh Hoodaled   government just before the announcement of the state assembly polls on August 8, 2014. The Khattar government had set-aside the appointment on December 18, 2014, almost two months after coming into the power.
 
 The petitioners main argument was that they were given a fixed term of office, which could not be curtailed in the absence of reasons for removal. It was also contended that the decision of the government to disband the commission and remove them was a partisan decision actuated by petty political considerations.
 
 The state government, on the other hand, had argued that Mullana and other members were appointed by previous regime without following any procedure.
 
 In its detailed judgment, released on Wednesday, Justice Bindal held, “We find merit in the argument of the state that as the petitioners had not come in through any selection process, they were appointed purely on the subjective satisfaction and pleasure of the then government... and they had no legal right to continue in office.“
 
 On the petitioners argument regarding curtailing of tenure mentioned in the notification, Justice Bindal observed, “Even if the term of office had been specified in the notification appointing the petitioners, that by itself, would not clothe the petitioners with any legally enforceable right as the commission as constituted was non-statutory."
 
