PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Wednesday stayed the reservation and   of a few wards for the June 11 panchayat elections. The stay was granted on the plea that the rotation policy of reservation of wards was not followed and it was made without adhering to criteria. The stay was also sought on the grounds that delimitation of wards was undertaken illegally.

 Though there was no plea to stay the entire panchayat election process, the petitioners wanted a stay on their wards being reserved or the delimitation exercise carried out by the government. Justice   D Sardessai passed the order on a bunch of petitions filed by poll aspirants —   from Sancoale, Riddesh Sukhtankar and   from Betki-Khandola, Vinayak Samant and   from  , and Venacio R Gonsalves and Naveed Noor Ahmad from Curti-Khandepar.
 
 Borkar had filed a petition seeking a stay in change of ward at Sancoale. The government through its May 11 notification had changed ward no. V to ward no. VI and conversely made ward no. VI as ward no. V.
 
 In Sukhtankar’s case, the high court stayed the notification that directed ward no. VII at Betki-Khandola to be included in the reserved category, while Haldankar had challenged the notification on making ward no.VI a reserved seat.
 
 In Phadte’s case, the high court stayed the notification that changed the composition of ward nos. VIII and IX at Penha de Franca.
 
 Samant had approached the high court stating that the issuance of May 16 notification whereby ward no.V had been reserved for the backward class was illegal. He alleged that the reservation of wards had to be on a rotation basis and the notification has affected his right to contest the election. The high court has stayed the notification. 
 
 In Gonsalves’ case, the court stayed the May 17 notification reserving ward no.VI for the backward class. While noting that a notification deprives the petitioner of the valuable right to contest the election, the high court granted relief to Ahmad of Curti-Khandepar.
 
 The petitioner said that in 2012 elections, one ward was reserved for other backward class (OBC) based on 2011 census, while in 2017, three wards were reserved for OBC based on the same census of 2011 without any basis.
 
