

 
 From 2002, BJP has been playing communal politics in Gujarat Whether it is the Godhra train fire or the terror attack on Akshardham, the BJP has used it to create Muslim phobia. In Uttar Pradesh also, the PM polarized society by referring to `Kabristan', `Smashan', 'Eid and Diwali' to get votes. Earlier, BJP leaders did not wear Muslim skull caps. Now they wear the skull caps.
 
 People of Gujarat now understand the BJP's double standards.
 
 The party's formula will not work in 2017 elections. Staunch Hindus have realized that the BJP had made fool of them all these years.
 
 They will vote against the BJP this time.
 
 
 
 
 A There is a general impression that Sharad Pawar is pro-BJP. I met Pawar to discuss his views on Gujarat elections. I asked him whether he will be with us in the fight against the BJP. He clearly said he is very much against the BJP and in Gujarat they will fight the BJP with us. The matter of a pre-poll alliance will be discussed by the high command in Delhi.
 
 
 
 
 
  From what I have been told, Prashant Kishorji played a key role in the BJP's win in 2012 and 2014 assembly elections. His strategy and effective campaigning gave victory to Nitish Kumar in Bihar and Congress in Punjab. Now his strategy will bring victory to Congress in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh. His involvement can help the party.
 
 
 
 
 
  BJP has misled people in the name of Hindutva and Vikas.
 
 Congress will have a nine-point agenda for the polls. Our strategy is very clear -focus on giving employment to 60 lakh youth; give them employment allowance till they get jobs; give homes to women; provide good law and order, give people the best education, and hi. ensure electricity to farmers.
 
 
 
 
  Their claim has no substance. I will not like to give a figure but people have become so anti-BJP that we will easily have complete majority.
 
 
 
 
 
 We are ready for the elections whenever they are announced.The BJP will have to consider issues like the drinking water crisis, and school and college exams. In my opinion, if the BJP wants to hold early elections, it has to be before June 10.
 
 
  
 
 
 
    was the BJP's backbone but the state government killed its youth, beat their women and children and damaged their properties. To settle internal scores they victimized the Patidars. Congress has always worked for all communities. So Patidars will vote for us.
 
 
  
 
 
 
  People want change.
 
 Gujarat Congress cadre wants change. People want BJP to go and Congress to take over. But a rumor was being floated that four-five leaders of Congress are fighting to become CM. This is not true. Hence, I took the initiative to clear the air and said publicly that not only me but neither Bharatbhai, Shaktisinh, Sidharathbhai or Arjunbhai is in the race. This will end rumors.
 
 
 
 
 I have already said that minister of state for home, Pradipsinh Jadeja, met me and said that Amitbhai is coming to the assembly and would like to meet me.It was only a courtesy call as politicians from different parties do meet each other. I met him in the presence of our MLAs and several other persons. There is no need to speculate about it. I have no plan to shift to any party. My only aim is defeat BJP in 2017 elections.
 
