The standards are high, the stakes among the highest in the country. And the  's no longer a one-horse race in Chennai. It's no wonder that first-time horse owners -from  , to dotcom execs -are emerging from the   in larger numbers than seen in years.

 For more than a decade or two, say owners and trainers -unwilling to be quoted individually on the issue -horse racing in Chennai was literally a oneman show, dominated by city-based business tycoon MAM Ramaswamy, who owned a team of more than 300 horses, always ready to race. Owners say Ramaswamy, who died in 2015, spearheaded incentives like subsidies for horse owners, and put Chennai racing back on track in 1996, by getting the Supreme Court to overrule the state ban on horse the sport. But, he is also rumoured to have “controlled“ racing in the city -with the majority of horses in every race belonging to him, there was not much “scope“ for other horse owners to participate or make a mark.
 
 In the last year, the racing scene in the city seems to have undergone a massive overhaul, with more owners, races, and prize money coming into play . “It's an exciting time for horse owners,“ says Javeed Ghatala, president of the Tamil Nadu Race Horse Owners Association.“For decades, we used to only see traditional horse owning families and companies in the game. Today, we see so many new owners coming in, many firsttime buyers, and a number of people coming in from other states to compete here. In another year, we will see the Chennai racing scene return to its former glory,“ says Ghatala. He adds that the prize money for the races of class 1 (best horses) and two-year-old horses are the highest in the country -at `4,83,000 for the winners of each.
 
 The high stakes drew Mario Desmond Weller, model and VP at Toni & Guy, into horse racing a couple of years ago. “My life was all about working over the week and clubbing over weekends. I was looking for something more excit ing, and I liked the idea of horse racing being a mix of challenge, risk and skill,“ says the 32-year-old. An investment that began with buying shares in horses turned into owning nine horses. While Weller has won some and lost some along the way, he's sticking on as he finds good returns on investment. “I bought a share in my first horse, Showers Of Luck, for `50,000 and he won the first race he ran for me. I got back `30,000; I couldn't believe it,“ says Weller, who has grown to love his horses. “They have so much pride in them when they run, how can you not have pride in them as an owner?“ he says.
 
 A former jockey , who is now a trainer and owner of more than 40 horses, Saddam Iqbal, says it is a great time to be a horse owner, because the city also has a great veterinary hospital and is home to the Guindy Race Course, among the oldest and best spaces in India for training horses. In 2016, the Madras Race Club also hosted the Indian Turf Invita tion Cup after a gap of 11 years, and drew large crowds as well as horse owners from across the country . In January this year, the annual auctions returned.
 
 “Even buying of horses is transparent. People can either buy a horse on their own or buy a share in a horse. A horse can have up to four shareholders,“ says Iqbal.
 
 For city-based first-time owner Shariq Joshy also, racing is a passion.A former executive with Amazon, Joshy got into racing because he studied in Montford Boarding School, where he learned horse riding. “I just love the animal, and that is what drew me to racing,“ says Joshy, who conducts horse riding classes in Chennai. “I don't believe you can be in this with the sole purpose of making money because it can be frustrating if your horse keeps losing. You have to be in it because you love it.“
 
 Music producer Prithvi Chandrasekhar got into the world of horse owning and racing because his father has a passion for the sport, while he has a love for animals. “When the racing scene seemed to open up in Chennai, my father wanted to get into it and drew me in. And that's how I bought my first horse a few years ago,“ says Chandrasekhar, adding that while his father takes charge of the buying and training aspects of horse ownership, he prefers to be more involved with the animal, its feeding and grooming. “In the race or not, who doesn't love a horse?“ he asks.
 
