PANAJI: From pink booths to   election officers, the tiniest state of India is making all the right noises in promoting women and safeguarding their franchise. But when it comes to politics, despite the female electorate outnumbering their male counterparts, they hardly find any representation in the legislative assembly.

 If in the last assembly there were only two women legislators, 2017 seems to be no better with just 7% or 17 of the 251 candidates being women, with major national parties   and Congress fielding four candidates between them.
 
 Of the 40 constituencies, 29 don’t have a single woman candidate. Even constituencies like Nuvem, St Andre, Velim and Fatorda, which have significantly higher number of female  , do not have a single candidate to represent them.
 
 “It does get a little lonely sometimes. Women can make as good if not better administrators,” says Alina Saldanha, BJP candidate from Cortalim, the party’s lone women representative and its science and technology minister. “We are equally capable,” she adds.
 
 But her chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar believes it’s easy to give a woman a ticket “but getting the person elected is a challenge”. “I know, in Goa, people want their MLAs at their beck and call—if they want their electricity to be fixed, they want a tap to be replaced or if someone is sick in their family to accompany them to the hospital in the night or sit with the sick person… they expect the   to be present for everything, which is difficult for women to do.”
 
 Parsekar reckons that it will take another 10 years for women to make a mark in politics.
 
 Lawyer and human rights activist Albertina Almeida says the scenario will not improve if the chief minister doesn't make any effort to break the stereotype of what women are or should be. “All the stereotypes have been reflected by him and his cabinet members, whether it was telling nurses not to protest in the sun because it would make them black to stating how women should dress. Instead of taking steps to break stereotypes, those in power reasserted them,” she says.
 
 Sabina Martins, founding member of Bailancho Saad, a women’s collective from Goa, says it is a clear indicator of gender inequality in the state. “What can women expect from political parties when they aren’t giving women in their own party due representation. When it comes to women’s issues, everything is ad hoc,” she says.
 
 Congress, which has retained its incumbent MLA Jennifer Monserrate and has brought in two new faces, says it is up to women to come forward and take part in the organization. “We would have certainly pushed for more women candidates if there were viable ones,” says state unit vice president M K Shaikh.
 
 Nelly Rodrigues ex-chairperson of the South Goa zilla panchayat and four time ZP member of Colva, who is contesting against Saldanha on a Goa Vikas Party tickets, feels it is very difficult to fight the money and muscle power of men. “Candidates who have no education and who are involved in illegal activities still manage to get a ticket of large political parties. Huge sums of money are required here too,” she says.
 
 AAP’s Cecille Lee Rodrigues, who shot to fame as a first runner up of a dance reality show and who is one of the five women candidates fielded by the party, says she has already got a taste of sexist comments on social media. “I was ridiculed because I was a woman candidate who is divorced. Women are always a soft target. Many are wary of entering the field of politics because it’s always easier to spoil a woman’s name,” she says.
 
 Independent candidate Judith Almeida says despite being active in the field of environment and human rights for the past 15 years, she continues to face character assassination online.
 
 Rodrigues feels the only way to change the perception is if more women enter politics, “because women are emotional and have a better connect with people”.
 
 Ironically, Goa’s first and only woman chief minister the late Shashikala Kakodkar held charge for six years from 1973 following the death of her father Dayanand Bandodkar, Goa’s first chief minister.
 
 
