Cleared/Anil

 Salem: The Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinder supply had been hit across Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts for the past couple of weeks after the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) closed its bottling plant in Karuppur for renovation works.
 
 Now, LPG cylinders are distributed only 35 days after the booking, against the normal delivery period of five days.
 
 The IOC’s LPG bottling plant in Karuppur started its operations in 1983. At least 22,000 LPG cylinders were filled here daily and distributed to Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Tirupur and Villupuram districts.
 
 The plant worked in two shifts with 20 IOC officials, 23 permanent staff, 90 contract labourers and 120 truck drivers. The plant stopped its operations on December 31 last for renovation works.
 
 “The plant filled 22,000 LPG cylinders every day. As it has stopped operations, there is a huge demand-supply imbalance,” said an IOC agency owner, requesting anonymity. He said the situation would continue to remain the same for the next three years until Karuppur bottling plant resumes its operations.
 
 The Karuppur plant management had, meanwhile, made an alternative arrangement to distribute LPG cylinders to its customers in Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Tirupur and Villupuram districts from Perundurai bottling plant in Erode.
 
 The Perundurai bottling plant, however, failed to meet the additional demand as expected. “The Perundurai plant currently issues 12,000 LPG cylinders while our demand is 22,000,” said an IOC official. The shortage of 10,000 cylinders has hit the supply chain, the official added.
 
 IOC officials in Perundurai said that they had not received LPG from the Ennur harbour in the past one month. “We haven’t got LPG from Ennur port last month due to oil spill in the ocean. So, we now totally depend on Cochin harbour for LPG,” the officials said and attributed it as a reason for its failure to meet the supply demand in the Salem region.
 
 They said the situation would improve soon. “Ennur harbour has started sending LPG. We hope to address the cylinder shortage issue within 30 days,” they said.
 
 
