HYDERABAD: The   may have come out with a comprehensive blueprint a few days ago to   by 2025, five years before the  's target year of 2030, but the country does not have the necessary infrastructure to take care of TB patients, who are in the `final stage' of their life.

 The demand for `end of life' care in government hospitals for patients suffering from multi-drug resistant (MDR) and extensively drug resistant (XDR) tuberculosis is increasingly gaining momentum as a majority of the patients are abandoned by their families, and struggle for a dignified living before the TB bacteria kills them.
 
 Hyderabad, which has one of the biggest chest hospitals in the country , does not have exclusive facilities for “end of life“ support for TB patients, on the lines of “palliative care“ given to cancer patients on death bed. Unless the MDR and XDR patients are extended financial and nutritional support, India's dream mission of eradicating TB in the next eight years may not materialise, warn NGOs involved in the care of tuberculosis patients.
 
 “There is an acute need for end of life care for destitute MDRXDR TB patients. We also need a comprehensive infection control mechanism. Unfortunately, both facilities are not available even in major cities like Hyderabad. We discussed the issue with Dr P Subhakar, zo nal head of task force on MDR TB, and he is in agreement with our suggestions,“ Mujtaba Hasan Askari, president of the  , told TOI.
 
 In fact, the misery of TB patients suffering from untreatable bacterial strains is so shocking that the World Health Organisation had sought details from Indian experts about what needs to be done to provide them better care. Dr Eric L Krakauer, medical officer for palliative care in the Department of Service Delivery and Safety , WHO, Geneva, points out that in India and in other low and middle income countries, people with untreatable XDR TB are sent home to with little or no care. “The result is that they suffer needlessly and die sooner or later, but often also spread their lethal infection. Thus, people with untreatable XDR TB need palliative care that also provides infection control,“ he suggests. Askari said the WHO has declared MDR TB as the “greatest threat to human health and the international community“. The apex health body is also concerned about India's lack of response on amendments to the revised national tuberculosis control program (RNTCP) to control the spread of drug resistant TB in the country .
 
 “Drug resistant TB may spread at a rapid pace, if proper measures like providing patients new medicines, financial support for travel and nutrition, and more importantly building air borne safety mechanism to control the spread of infection to others are not taken. We have brought all these issues to the notice of the state government and the state TB officer,“ he said.
 
 He also demanded that the “blockbuster drugs“, Bedaquiline and Delamanid, which received the approval of the Food and Drug Administration ( ) of the  , be made available to all the TB patients in India.Currently , only a handful of patients across the country are provided the new drugs, which will increase the chances of survival.
 
 The need for palliative care for TB patients gains significance as   reports 45,160 new cases every year. Of them, 1,722 are of untreatable TB type.Most of the MDR TB patients are abandoned by their families, said Askari adding that the big challenge at the   in the city is lack of attendants to personally take care of MDR and XDR TB patients.
 
