Manipal: Each individual has to find one’s own formula for success, but being honest to oneself to vital, said S S Rajamouli, filmmaker and director, whose most recent film was the blockbuster Baahubali.

 Rajamouli and his wife Rama were at Manipal Institute of Technology on Friday as a part of the diamond jubilee lecture series. Students as well as faculty cheered loudly when he walked to the stage.
 
 Rajamouli, who began his speech by disarmingly saying that he is “not a good orator”, advised students to observe the world around them carefully and learn from it. “Observe everything and make your own formula. An important ingredient in your formula must be honesty. One can lie to others but not to oneself. If you are honest, you are happy,” he said.
 
 He shared two of his “tricks for success” in his personal and professional life. “In my personal life, I am happy because I trick my wife into believing that I am the best husband she can ever have and in professional life, I trick you (the audience) into believing that my movies are the best,” he said, making the crowd burst into laughter.
 
 He said he had dropped out of Class 12 and that he often has to work with engineers who are far more qualified than him. “I often swing between extreme confidence and fear,” he said, adding that this was evident during release of Baahubali. “If you are supremely confident, you are either a genius or an idiot.”
 
 One of the students asked him what the most challenging part of making Baahubali 2 was and he said that the work on the war scenes was hardest. “We were not used to such work where you have so many artists, sets and other things,” he said.
 
 Having a positive attitude towards work helped him become a director, he said. “As an assistant director, I remember cutting dialogues for a serial directed by Raghavendra Rao and written by Pruthvi Raj. Pruthvi always used to complain about me to the director and we didn’t get along on the set. But when he needed someone to direct ‘Student No 1’, he chose me as he believed in my positive attitude,” he said.
 
 Another student asked him why he was interested in mythology to which he said his grandmother had got him to read mythological stories. “One character close to my heart is Karna. I have read 100 stories about him and every time it gives me goose bumps.”
 
 
