Panaji: Environmentalists in Goa are sceptical about political will to implement the revised set of rules recently notified by the Union ministry of forests, environment and climate change, even though a few provisions look good on paper. The new Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rules 2017 vests powers with governments of state and UTs and requires them to perform certain functions for the effective conservation and management of wetlands. The updated rules will supersede the 2010 rules following the notification of draft Wetland Rules in 2016 The new rules prohibit activities like encroachments upon wetlands; setting up industries and expanding existing ones near wetlands; manufacturing, handling or disposing solid, hazardous and untreated wastes, effluents from industries and other human wastes at wetlands; etc. “The high court of Bombay at Goa had directed the state, in a litigation about 15 years back, to identify lakes and wetlands for conservation, but after forming the task force, the concerned departments have not shown interest in pursuing the matter,” said Philip Fernandes, a task force member. The HC had directed the state to take up the conservation of Carambolim lake as a pilot project and then replicate the model in other wetlands. “The 2010 rules proposed the setting up of a central wetland authority which has been replaced by a national wetlands committee without much teeth. The onus of identification and notification of wetlands has been passed on to states, which have virtually never acted on wetlands protection in the past,” said Pushp Jain of environmental impact assessment (EIA) Resource and Response Centre (ERC) said. CM Manohar Parrikar had assured in the 2017 budget that a draft policy for preservation, protection, conservation and development of wetlands will be prepared. The government will start exhaustive survey of identifying wetlands in Goa as per Wetland Rules 2010 with appropriate documentation, the budget note had stated. “But most of the pristine wetlands are in a state of severe distress, as they have been reclaimed insensitively for bypasses and expansion of roads,” environmentalist Abhijit Prabhudesai said.