Panchkula: Panchkula mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia continued to protest outside MC office in Sector 14 on Wednesday. However, while in protest, she also carried on with her office work outside the office.

 Ahluwalia alongwith more than 13 councillors and resident welfare association members protested in front of the Sector 14 office and kept a donation box open for residents and visitors to collect funds which would help them to repair or reconstruct the bad conditioned roads among other development works.
 
 Protesters said despite having sufficient funds with the MC, no work has been initiated by the executive officers due to pressure from local politicians. “Not even a single agenda passed in the house meeting has been executed by the officers”, said mayor. 
 
 She added that since transfer, ACR (annual confidential report), promotion and suspension of the officers are in the hands of the government, influential politicians from the ruling party create fear among the officers and do not allow them to start work, to get some votes in the upcoming election.
 
 “We have passed a list of agendas in various house meetings among which the major ones include re-carpeting of roads, shifting of dumping ground from Sector 23, recruitment of 229 sanitation workers, shoes and clothes to them and sub-surface dam over Ghaggar river, among other workers,” Ahluwalia said.
 
 Haryana urban local bodies’ minister has also been updated about the poor development situation of the city and a letter has also been written to the chief minister in this regard but to no avail, she said.
 
 Protesters said their main motive is development and residents are aware of the fact which is responsible for the poor performance of municipality.
 
 Protesters also added that they will continue their protest everyday from 10am – 12 noon till development works are not executed in the favour of the residents. “I will do my office work in the protest tent at 10am-12pm daily. Visitors can meet me here,” mayor said.
 
 
