It’s the ultimate dream: to love food, enjoy it, and still remain fit, healthy and forever young. For most of us, that’s what it remains — a dream. As a non-stop eatabout food critic, it’s doubly difficult for me. So I’ve been on a never-ending quest… be it through my weekly column on health (for 15 years in a national newspaper) or through 52 episodes of a TV show on health, which I produced and hosted. Only very recently, has Mumbai been serving up healthy vegetarian gourmet options. My favourites: Sequel Bistro & Juice Bar and   (Bandra), in SOBO, 212 All Good (serves non-veg, too) and now, the two-month-old   brings vegetarian carbon-free dining.
It promises ‘Fit, Fresh and Fun’. Not only is my young vivacious guest all that, even her recently launched (by superstars) blog, Risque, is a capsule all-things-fit-and-fabulous in life. I popped in to the restaurant unannounced. On an impulse, I called up Anandita De, the youngest of the De family. Hotstepper, amazing Ana had just landed and sportingly drove over from the airport. We checked out the terrace (with its vertical microgreen and herb garden) and ate our way through the menu. Happily!
 
 
 
 Zoom up the lift in Breach Candy’s ‘Restaurant Building’ and delight in architect Sumessh Menon’s cheery new style of feminine grunge that blends a raw concrete look with a splash of vibrant. In the evenings, dine alfresco by the herb garden on the rooftop. 
 
 
 
 Flavour-packed dishes with intriguing, zesty international alliances. Meatless fare made of seasonal and locally-sourced produce (including items from their terrace garden). The healthy Black Rice Italian Risotto is deliciously intense with Portobello mushroom and truffle. Belgian Waffles are transformed into delicious savoury gluten-free rice ones. Zucchini Parcels moist with flavour and sauce, tasty Indian Achari Mushroom Tikkis, too. Ask for crisp crackling Beetroot Chips, Wedges of Sweet Potato, generously garlicky dips. Sourdough slices slathered with a thick moist layer of smashed avocados. Power-packed smoothies, juices, wines and beers, too.
 
 
 
 Candy and Green needs a stronger finish than it gets from a merely serviceable roster of desserts. Be it the No More Depresso Mousse, rendered vegan with tofu, or the rubbery pancakes. Lacklustre Sesame Soba Noodles. Ditto for the crumbly Kale Crumble Tart. Slow service.
 
 
 
 From cold press to cocktail, dress seems to be the motto of this two-month-old sexy new restaurant. Quite obviously, it’s a product of passion of 25-year-old Shraddha Bhansali (hotel management graduate, champion boxer and fitness freak). What comes out of its kitchen are moderately-priced, vibrant, tasty dishes (most of them). What goes into its kitchen are top-notch ingredients from their terrace garden and local sources. Candy and Green champions a vegetarian gastrointestinal feng shui. We approve!
 
