CHENNAI: A hundred years ago, in May 1917, when   threw open the doors of Women’s Indian Association (WIA), she laid the foundation for several historic changes to unfold from the enactment of the Child Marriage Restraint Act and education of the girl child to getting voting rights for women. On her 147th birth anniversary on October 1, as the country enjoys the fruits of what this fearless social reformer had then sown, her association, which also celebrates its centenary this year, is busy spreading Besant’s vision while actively addressing the complex challenges   face today. 

 “Those days, the association’s work centered on the basic rights of women and children, which they were deprived of due to the social construct of that time,” says the current chairwoman of WIA, Padma Venkataraman. “The association has worked without a break for 100 years; Sarojini Varadappan alone headed it for 40 years,” she adds.
 
 The movement that Besant, who M K Gandhi said “woke India from deep sleep” had started along with educationist and Theosophist Margaret Cousins to empower women took further direction under great visionaries such as Muthulakshmi Reddy and Sarojini Naidu. The WIA’s fundraiser in fact helped set up the Cancer Institute in 1954. As a living testimony to what she propagated, Besant became the first woman president of the Indian National Congress in 1917, and is fondly remembered for her spirit of inclusiveness by those live by the path she forged even today. 
 
 C V K Maithreya, a fifth generation member of the  , recalls a story he grew up listening to, and continues to learn from. “It is said that she brought home two men from Benares, convicted of a serious crime, and gave them job as house helps. They stayed with her till the end and were heartbroken when she died,” he says. “Such was her conviction in the human spirit – something unimaginable today.” 
 
 Today, with 9,000 members across  , WIA runs 32 crèches in and around Chennai for children of working mothers, three old-age homes and a working women’s hostel. It is also running its eighth batch of nurse aide training and provides skills development and raw materials to rural women with disabilities.
 
 Aruna Devi of the Society for Rights of Women with Disability, which is one of the beneficiaries of WIA, says the programme has helped every member earn at least Rs 5,000 per month from jewellery-making and tailoring. “While there are many organisations to help women, there are few that rural women with disabilities can look to, and WIA has consistently provided livelihood options for them,” says Devi.
 
 In Maithreya’s house, Besant’s powerful ideology is upheld till date. “No matter how turbulent the times, I know for sure that my children will never bribe an official,” he says. “They have learnt from their forefathers who learnt from Annie Besant that there are no shortcuts to anything of value.”
 
 
