SHILLONG: Troops of the Border Security Force ( ) deployed at Chikenbari in   apprehended a fence cutter along the India-Bangladesh border on Monday night, even another miscreants managed to give the slip.

 "One Indian national namely Johan Marak (32) of village Bolavita was apprehended while he was engaged in breaching of border fencing on the international border.The special fence checking party laid a trap while some miscreants were engaged in cutting the Indo-Bangladesh border fence.The cautious BSF party encircled the area, squeezed the cordon and apprehended him. However, other miscreants fled,taking advantage of the thickly vegetated area," a spokesperson at the   Frontier Headquarters of the BSF said here on Tuesday. Along the same border, BSF troops also nabbed a cattle smuggler and confiscated Rs 6 lakh from him.
 
 "Acting on a tip off on suspected movement of cattle smugglers in Gumaghat, BSF intelligence staff nabbed him with Indian currency which was meant for cattles muggling. He revealed that the currency was given by one lady at Patkura market to deliver it to unknown persons at village Mawpyllun, Nalikata,"the BSF said.
 
 "Similarly, in another incident, BSF troops deployed at Lyngkhat/Tuka, East Khasi Hills district of Meghalaya seized 36 cattleworth more than Rs 7 lakh while these were being smuggled to Bangladesh. The special operation party of BSF laid a trap while some smugglers along with cattle were proceeding towards Bangladesh.
 
 The BSF troops rushedtowards the suspected area before the smugglers could succeed in their nefarious activity, cordoned off the area and recovered a considerable number of cattle,"the BSF pokesperson said. The BSF said the Meghalaya border has seen a rise in cattle smuggling in the recent past. "However,the alert BSF troops are playing a tremendous role in preventing smuggling of these cattle. There has been some decrease in attempts of cattle smuggling after establishment of joint check posts by BSF and police in   area.But it seems the criminals involved in this act have now got involved in smuggling of liquor," said UK Nayal, PROBSF, Meghalaya. "There have been inputs of these smugglers adopting new routes to bypass Pynursla," he added.
 
