NAGPUR: A four-year-old boy, Daksh Tekade, died tragically after being run over by a car that had a novice driver at the wheel on Saturday. The accused,   (22) did not have a driver’s licence and had been having minor mishaps over the last week while taking driving lessons in the congested area. The accident took place at Anna Baba Nagar in Zingabai Takli on Godhani Road around 10.45am. Daksh’s family had celebrated his birthday on December 20.

 The boy’s father Ganesh was dropping Daksh and his sister Purva (6) to school when the Chaudhary took a sharp turn in the narrow lane from  . Seeing the bike coming from the opposite direction, Chaudhary, who was taking lessons from car owner and forest department clerk Suresh Raut (50), tried to apply brakes but mistakenly pressed the accelerator instead. A frantic Raut pulled the car’s handbrake but it was too late.
 
 Due to the collision, Daksh, who was sitting on the bike’s petrol tank, got stuck under the vehicle. Locals pulled him out and rushed him to the hospital but he was declared brought dead. Ganesh received several injuries but Purva, who was riding pillion and was thrown off from the site of impact, received minor bruises.
 
 Livid locals claimed that it was the brand new car’s fifth accident within a week. Earlier, Chaudhary had dashed a roadside wall and had a few brushes and close calls. But since there had been no damage, they were not reported.
 
 Ganesh told TOI, “I was going at a normal speed. Before I could do anything, the bike got trapped under the car’s bonnet and dragged me and Daksh for a few meters.” Local residents immediately pulled out the boy, whose head had got stuck under the vehicle, and rushed him to a nearby private hospital where he was declared brought dead. Ganesh was rushed to Mayo Hospital.
 
 Though Daksh’s last rites were carried out, Ganesh, being in a serious condition, was not informed about his death. Although Purva miraculously received practically no injuries, she was in shock and couldn’t speak when TOI tried talking to her. Daksh was very close to his mother Chitra, who assists Ganesh in his business.
 
 Mankapur police have registered the offences of rash driving, causing hurt and causing death by negligence under respective sections 279, 337 and 304 (A) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Chaudhary and Raut.
 
 School staff and several local politicians reached the spot and demanded widening of the road. Traffic DCP Smartana Patil too visited the spot.
 
 
