GURUGRAM: The state government is yet to take up maintenance of   in developers’ areas, leaving residents to suffer erratic supply and long hours of load-shedding.

 Local residents alleged DHBVN had done nothing to upgrade infrastructure, as was promised, in DLF phases, Suncity, Sushant Lok 1, 2, 3 and Palam Vihar, even 10 months after the government promised to take over the upgrade work and augment power supply. With summer around the corner, the supply situation has gone from bad to worse.
 
 “In a meeting with RWAs in July last year, principal secretary (power) Rajan Kumar Gupta had promised the government would take up maintenance and ensure regular supply. However, another summer is here and nothing has changed on the ground,” said Dhruv Bansal, media spokesperson, Qutub Enclave Residents’ Welfare Association.
 
 To make things worse, Bansal added, prolonged power cuts, sometimes stretching over 5-6 hours, have already started making life miserable for people in DLF phases 1, 2 and 3. Those living in other developers’ areas in the city are forced to brave similar outages even before summer.
 
 “The plotted areas in Suncity need transformers that can ensure around 14MW supply. But the existing infrastructure can support only 5MW. As a result, transformers heat up easily, leading to frequent load-shedding,” said Abhay Poonia, RWA president, Suncity.
 
 According to Poonia, people living in their areas are already facing day-long power cuts over the past couple of weeks. “Imagine what will happen in peak summer?” he asked.
 
 “The electricity department is probably the most corrupt in  . It has not invested a single penny in power infrastructure in our area. Fed up, we’ve now taken things in our hands and are solving our power supply problems ourselves,” said Sunil Yadav, president, Palam Vihar RWA.
 
 DHBVN superintendent engineer (Gurgaon circle), Naveen Verma, could not be reached for comment. However, a senior DHBVN official said: “The matter is being discussed at the senior-level. We’re not privy to that. As far as I know, there is no development at the circle-level in this regard yet.” 
 
 In July last year, the Haryana government had announced it would take over the Rs 200-crore upgrade work from RWAs, to boost power infrastructure in the entire Gurgaon circle. 
 
 
