Noida: Three men were arrested for trying to extort Rs 10 lakh from a   and his wife in Sector 41 on Sunday. The accused,   (26), Laxmikant Tiwari (27) and Rakesh Mahto (24) have been living on a rented accommodation in Aghapur village. 

 According to police, Professor B   (70), who had retired from All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, stays with his wife   (65) in Sector 41. Ghoshal is now a visiting professor at Amity University, Noida Sector 125. His son, a software engineer, lives in US.
 
 Amarnath Yadav, SHO, Sector 39 police station said that on February 23, the three criminals had barged into his house when he was away. "They arrived at around 11 am when the professor had gone to the university. The criminals took Suparna Ghoshal hostage at gunpoint and demanded an extortion of Rs 10 lakh," said a police officer.
 
 The professor's wife told the miscreants that their money and jewellery were in the bank and there was nothing she could do. The criminals, however, kept on threatening her and stayed there for 45 minutes. The woman then told them to give a contact number so that she could pay them once she withdrew money from the bank. The criminals took the family's landline number and said that they would make a call and cite a code - IGL. The criminals then left the place with a warning.
 
 The woman immediately called her husband and narrated the incident. Professor Ghoshal then registered a case in Sector 39 police station. 
 
 On February 25, the criminals again called on the family's phone and demanded money. Professor Ghoshal informed police and shared the number used for making the extortion call. The police traced the number and arrested the three accused from Aghapur village in Noida on Sunday.
 
 The accused   and Laxmikant Tiwari were working as water supplying agents in the locality. They used to provide water to the professor's house and had conducted a recce. The two took the help of Rakesh Mehto, a driver with a private company, and hatched a plan to extort the elderly couple thinking they were vulnerable.
 
 "We have registered a case of loot and extortion against the accused. They will be presented before court on Monday," said an officer.
 
