SURAT: Unlike every year, this year it seems excitement about Uttaryan is missing among makers and sellers of kites. Blame it on   and shortage of   in the market, the pre-Uttrayan zest in the   is largely missing. 

 Rander town is the oldest bazaar dating back to more than 400 years, of hand-made kites. But the zest and feverish trading of kites of past years is sadly absent. This time the number of kite stalls has gone down by almost 60%.
 
 Wholesale traditional kite manufacturers in Rander are facing a tough time as kites have plummmeted by almost 75% over last year.
 
 Kite manufacturers have started offering Rs 2 to Rs 3 discount on the ‘panja’— a bundle of five kites — to customers buying in wholesale, just to recover the cost of the raw material they had used. 
 
 “We purchase raw material for kite-making four months ahead of Uttrayan festival,” said Imtiyaz Patangwala, a fourth-generation kite manufacturer in Rander. 
 
 “The kite paper is procured from Hyderabad and the Kaman-dhadha (the special wooden stick) from Kolkata. This year the price of raw material was almost 10% higher than last year but we did not know that demonetization will ruin our business,” he said. 
 
 He further said that demonitization had snatched away their once-in-a-year opportunity to earn money through kite-making. “Now, we are hoping that Surtis will turn out in large numbers in the last two days before Uttaryayan and help us recover our losses,” Imtiaz said.
 
 Iqbal Patangwala of Rander said a kite passes through the hands of seven people before it becomes a finished product. “We started making kites four months ago. Now, it is a question of survival for the karigars (craftsmen of kites) was business is down,” he said.
 
 The plight of manja-makers in Dabgarwad and Bhagal—the oldest areas in the   famous for their manja (thread) across Gujarat and even in other states — are facing double trouble. One is demonetization and the other is the National Green Tribunal’s ban on the use of glass and metal-coated manja. 
 
 However, many manja-makers have no option but to use glass and metal to coat the thread as it is popular with ardent kite lovers. Prakash Sadadiwala, proprietor of Bhagwandas and Sons, the oldest manja-makers in the city at Bhagal, said kites made by his workers have been a brand for years. 
 
 ‘We have a monopoly though we do not use glass or even metal in the making of manja,” he said. 
 
 “Forget about the NGT ban, it is demonetization that has broken our backs this season. The business is just 40% of what it used to be at this time and most of our clients from other cities and states are yet to place any order,” Sadadiwala said. On being asked about the NGT ban, Sadadiwala said those who want to earn extra money are coating the thread with metal and glass. “The festival of Uttrayan is for fun and not to kill birds and human beings,” he said.
 
