HYDERABAD: Two months on, the Centre's   move has come to haunt a large section of tenants in the city. With many   unwilling to accept online payments­ to evade taxes ­ tenants are either forced to wait in long queues to withdraw money, or pay an additional 10-15% if they opt for digital transaction.

 Most affected are those who've leased homes in areas dotted with illegal structures, where a majority of the rental agreements are verbal.Though the trend is visible in some upscale localities too, their numbers are few and far between.
 
 “I withdrew money a day before demonetisation. When I tried to pay my landlord, he told me to pay in new notes. Two months later, the situation is the same. When I asked him for his account details to transfer the rent, he refused. He doesn't accept cheques either,“ said Priyanka Reddy , a resident of Begumpet.
 
 Those agreeing to e-payment are attaching a clause: pay an extra 10 attaching a clause: pay an extra 1015%. Objective: pass the burden of the tax onto the tenant.
 
 Residents caught in this deadlock are worried and fear they'll be asked to vacate if they don't fall in line.“When I said I can only make  , my owner asked me to vacate the house. He says he does not want any tax issue,“ said M Madhuri, a techie from Madhapur.
 
 Though the city's rental market is heavily skewed in favour of landlords, who even have powerful associations to browbeat tenants, the crisis has left many of them jittery too. “It's a double-edged sword. If I accept online payments, I have to declare my entire earnings and pay a hefty tax. And if I insist on cash, I might have to wait for weeks before I get my rent,“ said N L Reddy, who has multiple apartments on rent in the Punjagutta-Somajiguda area.
 
 Given the situation, experts foresee several disputes reaching court as the   (Lease, Rent and Eviction) Control Act does not provide any remedy.“The proposed Tenancy Bill 2015 is a useful legislation that seeks to set up a special court to address tenant landlord rows. The state governments will have the power to put a cap on rents to check arbitrary hikes," said Ram Kumar, an advocate. “Had this been in place already, the situation would have been different,“ he added.
 
