Nagpur: The 12th edition of Art Adda at Chitnavis Centre saw interpretation of Hindi film songs with the programme ‘Thodi si  , thoda asaman’, organized by Alag Angle on Friday. On the stage were authors from Wardha Ravindra RP and Anuradha Mohoni, who shared their insights and perceptions with the audience. 

 With the focus being on lyrics, the duo gave detailed explanation of the thought and the poetry in songs as penned by their writers. “Though a song is the most remembered part of the cinematic experience, people get carried away by its melody and presentation and few remember the writer who has penned it,” said Ravindra. 
 
 Explaining the title of the event, Ravindra told TOI, “Hindi films are a mix of reality and magic and that’s what the title says- a bit of being grounded and little bit of fantasy, which is actually the gist of our lives.”
 
 Taking Valentine’s Day as their theme for the evening, the duo picked songs which depicted various moods of love. Describing Dev Anand as the quintessential romantic hero, Ravindra cited ‘Phoolon ke rang se’ from Prem Pujari as one which made every aspect of love very beautiful. 
 
 The couple explained the gentleness of anger in love with ‘Abhi naa jao chhod kar’ and the innocent expectations from life in ‘Ye tera ghar ye mera ghar.’ Describing piano as the most used instrument by jilted lovers, the couple took up the popular number ‘Chalo ek baar phir se’ to explain how sometimes love was more about showing restrain than allowing free flow of emotions.
 
 Taking up songs written by Swanand Kirkire for Parineeta and Hazaron Khwaishey Aisi which reflected the stifled love and feelings of the heroine or the madness of desire, Ravindra also spoke of the manner in which Basu Bhattacharya dealt with post marriage love with the song ‘Mujhe jaan na kaho’ from Anubhav. “This is so sensuous and so sensitively sung by Geeta Dutt that it almost becomes a prayer just as the song from Mamta, ‘Chhupa lo dil mein’ which presents both man and woman as an equal when it comes to feelings,” he said.
 
 
