RANCHI: The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha ( ) on Sunday demanded an   from   and Aditya Sahu for levelling   against their working president   on Saturday. 

 Addressing mediapersons, JMM general secretaries Vinod Pandey and Supriyo Bhattacharya refuted all the allegations point-wise and threatened to expose several   state leaders if they failed to apologise for their remarks. 
 
 "We don't believe in personal attacks and mudslinging for political mileage and expect similiar behaviour from the ruling party," Bhattacharya said.
 
 The JMM's statements came a day after the state BJP accused Soren for not disclosing information related to his property before filing his nomination for the 2014 assembly election. 
 
 The BJP alleged that Soren and his family members had purchased several properties between 2007 and 2009 worth Rs 100 crore. 
 
 The party added that they planned to report the matter to the Election Commission (EC).
 
 On the allegations, Pandey and Bhattacharya said the JMM working president had furnished the details of his property to the EC in a 14-page affidavit submitted in 2014. "The BJP accused Soren of not informing the EC about his purchase of a 5.2 acre land and registering 16 plots in 2007. However, the details of each plot have been mentioned on page number five of the affidavit," Bhattacharya said. 
 
 He added that the details of Eden girls hostel in Lalpur, which was purchased in Soren's name, were also provided to the commission in page no eight of the affidavit. "The BJP's allegation of the land being purchased in Soren's wife Kalpana's name is false," he said.
 
 The general secretary also said it was unfortunate that the BJP leaders approached the media without verifying the facts. 
 
 "Any property is rated on the stamp value and information on the same is available with the Income Tax (IT) department," he said, explaining that the IT department would have raised objections if the prices of the lands were underrated.
 
 On Saturday, BJP vice-president Samir Oraon raised questions on the total worth of properties owned by Soren and his wife. He said in his affidavit, the JMM leader had said that total worth of property owned by him is Rs 1.1 crore while property owned by his wife is worth Rs 1.5 crore. "He has claimed that his main profession is farming, but he is silent on the source of income of his wife. We request the EC to take a note of these omissions and initiate suitable action," Oraon said.
 
 
