“Hey all, you don’t have to crowd around on one side. Feel free to surround us while we perform,” Probir Guha called out to the viewers who had assembled to watch his play at the Ernakulam Public Library ground. Probir, a renowned theatre personality from West Bengal, was performing his play Ghar Wapsiyom Ka Geet as part of the Street   —   — which concluded yesterday. As the actors performed illustrating the colours of daily life, hardly did anyone feel they were watching a group of artistes. Sans any kind of a formal setting, it gave viewers a taste of what Indian   has always been — a ‘simple and powerful’ art form meant to create social awareness. The four-day event which unfolded at four separate venues in Kochi, offered insights into a variety of factors:

 
 
 
 One of the plays staged at the fest this time was Uniform by the Ernakulam Trade Union. Subrahmanian C K, who penned the script of the play, says, “It’s been over a year since we formed our little troupe and we have also performed at a few venues. We took up street theatre as it is a magnetic medium to say the things — political or otherwise — that we want to speak about. It’s a great medium to air our issues. People don’t pay attention to strikes or protests anymore. However, they still lend an ear to theatre, and the message can stay etched in their minds for a longer period of time.”
 
 For the past few decades, theatre artiste Karunakaran Parambil has been staging solo plays in various parts of the State. The actor, whose play Velayudhante Swapnam explores the plight of dalits in the country has made a stage out of many nooks and corners of Kerala. “I remember performing in Kozhikode. After the play, a handful of people came forward to tell me that they were reminded of many of their childhood experiences and painful memories, as I performed. That’s how this medium connects with people. They are caught off guard and you are able to make them empathise and effectively pass on thoughts,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 Ithu Josephinte Katha, Annayudeyum, was a play staged by an all-women troupe at Theruvarangu. The group had laid out a red carpet extending from the performing space to the audience. “It was a road, from the house of a character to the outside world,” says actress K V Jisha. As the play started, the audience reassembled themselves on either side of the ‘road’, and indirectly, they too became characters of the play!
 
 “That’s how flexible street theatre performance is,” she says, adding, “We are a lot closer to the audience even while performing and involve them as characters. This keeps them too on their toes and the energy level of the audience rises. Basically, both the viewer and the artiste are on the same platform,” she says.
 
 A C Anil Kumar and team started their play Janaganamana with just 12 members as performers. However, when the play wrapped up, there were around 65 members on the dais. Guess how? Anil says, “Janaganamana means the mind of the masses, and we wanted to make the audience move, rather than sit still in front of us. The play intended to show people how crowds are formed and the various types of crowd formations. The give and take nature of our play brought in more people on to the stage and finally, we all sang together the song Varika Varika Sahajare, in the true spirit of the song.
 
 
 
 
 Street theatre in our country is usually used to create general awareness about a particular cause. True to the nature of this medium, Theruvarangu too had plays based on a variety of issues. Krishnadas M, one of the organisers, says, “We had invited performers to present issue-based plays at this event and thus, we could line up a buffet of ideas and thoughts for the viewers. They ranged from security issues of the current society to mob psychology.” Equality for women, issues of farmers, displacement through technology and uniforms that restrict our independence are a few other themes borrowed by the artistes at the event.
 
