MUMBAI: Danish brewer Carlsberg’s India business dragged down volume growth in Asia region. But for India volume, the region would have grown 2%, the company said.
 
  This is the first instance of a global   firm commenting on the impact of a   order that forced nearly a third of all outlets to shut shop last month. “The totality of Asia (business) has, let’s say, declined or contracted a bit because of India. So, despite a good start in all the other countries, in India, because of the implication of the   ban, we had a negative double-digit volume decline. So, it’s mainly India which impacts the performance in Asia in Q1,” said   CEO Cees’t Hart at an investor call.
  
  The maker of eponymous lager and Tuborg saw Indian volume decline almost 20%, a steep fall from about 15-20% growth it has been posting for nearly a decade. Excluding Bihar, a state where liquor was banned last April, Carslberg India’s volume declined 15% in the first quarter.
  
 After the Supreme Court’s mid-December judgement, several companies chose channel de-stocking as there wasn’t enough clarity on the implementation, which in turn hurt their January-March sales even as nearly 30,000 shops were shut in April.
  
  The world’s third largest brewer said it expects a volatile year in India with a hit in the first half of the calendar year in India due to the combination of closing, relocating and de-stocking. What we see is a lot of creativity in India on how to mitigate this for, first of all, the states and secondly for local entrepreneurs. We don’t see a lower demand,” added Hart.
  
  Carlsberg India chief executive officer Michael Jensen said last year that India was the most difficult market in the world, referring at that time to Bihar’s imposition of prohibition after he invested $25 million to set up a plant near the state capital Patna in 2014. “It is very detrimental for investor confidence,” Jensen had said.
  
  India’s beer sales fell 2% in the year to March 2017. Yet, the industry expects to grow 5-7% during the fiscal on the back of new launches.
  
  Heineken, Anheuser-Busch InBev, and Carlsberg — which together control about 90% of India’s beer market — are introducing about a dozen new beer brands to fend off sales bans in a few states, shrinking store networks and stagnant demand in a warm, tropical country with promising demographics and increasing affluence.
  
  Experts say the impact on retail outlets will be transitionary as they move away from highways in due course of time. Retail consumer demand would shift to shops, which are away from highways. Also, India is largely a whiskey and spirits dominated market and per capita consumption of beer in India is about 2 litres per person a year, minuscule compared to the global average of about 30 litres.
  
  That said, spirits makers sense a demand revival in the second half of the year. “We expect the impact to be mitigated eventually and where it doesn’t, consumption will shift to other outlets,” said Anand Kripalu, CEO, United Spirits in an investor presentation on Tuesday.
