GURUGRAM: A 30-year-old man was   by men who offered him   on Thursday afternoon near Bhondsi.

 The victim, identified as Karimuddin, was heading home from his office in Sector 32 around 1pm on Thursday. “I was waiting at the South City-2 bus stop when a person, who was standing next to me, started asking me questions like where I worked, where I stayed and where I was headed to,” said Karimuddin.
 
 After waiting for around 10 minutes, Karimuddin saw a white Swift approaching so he decided instead of waiting for a bus it was better to ask the car to drop him at Sohna. Once the people in the car agreed to drop Karimuddin, he, along with the man at the bus stop, got inside the car. 
 
 Once the car crossed Badshapur, the three men , including the person who got in with him, told Karimuddin that they were from Haryana Police and they needed to list out whatever he had on him, and that later the SHO would come and check it. “I wrote down on a piece of paper whatever I had with me,” said Karimuddin.
 
 According to Karimuddin, the men had a wireless device with them similar to what the police use.
 
 After crossing Bhondsi, around five kilometres after Badshapur, the men asked him to put everything he had with him inside an envelope they held. Suspecting something was wrong, Karimuddin resisted. But before he could say anything, one of the three men took out a country made pistol and held it against his head and asked him to put everything he had. 
 
 “I was scared so I put everything, including my two phones, my wallet, inside the envelope,” said Karimuddin. “After that they kicked me out of the car near Mahenderwara and fled.” 
 
  An FIR has been registered against the three unidentified men under sections 379A (snatching) and sections 25 of the Arms Act at the Bhondsi police station on Saturday. 
 
 “The registration number of the car is not known and there are no cameras along the stretch so we are yet to identify the accused. The investigation is underway,” said ASI Balbir, the investigating officer.
 
