Panaji: With the objective of bringing in minimum human interface, town and country planning (TCP) minister Vijai Sardesai said that the government plans to procure a software for receiving building plans and also sending the approvals to the applicants online. Sardesai made the statement while speaking as the chief guest at the 50th Engineers’ Day celebrations in commemoration of the 157th birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna Sir Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya organised by the Goa unit of the Institution of Engineers (India) held in a city hotel on Saturday evening. Emphasising the need for a citizen-friendly system, he said the the TCP department would soon float a tender for procurring the software. He also announced plans to empannel notary architects and engineers at taluka levels for the purpose of granting approvals to single family dwellings. This is in view of complaints being received of hindrances faced when various permissions are sought by applicants. Sardesai further hinted of plans to have an automated building plan approval mechanism such as auto development control regulations (DCR) within this year. On the issue of development in orchard land, he emphasised that he would not permit such development that were being done with political patronage but would instead revive farmhouse approvals with restrictions preventing it’s misuse with a control on agricultural sub-divisions. Sardesai further urged the engineers gathered to build safer greener buildings leaving lesser carbon footprints and aesthetically appealing buildings highlighting the unique identity of Goa’s cultural heritage that is different from other parts of the nation. The TCP Minister reiterated his commitment to prepare a Regional Plan based on the Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) that would be the first in the country and would conserve certain ecological areas in Goa. Sardesai felicitated a senior engineer Ananta Vassudeva Porob Moio and released their newsletter Enginews on the occasion. A moment’s silence was also observed in memory of the Investment Promotion Board (IPB) CEO Ashton Lorenzo Lemos Godinho. Earlier, Goa NIT director Dr Gopal Mugeraya delivered the keynote address on ‘Role of Engineers in a Developing India’ highlighting the advancement in technology and the vast potential in youth whose skills and talent ought to be tapped for India’s progress. The guest speaker Professor Ruildo de Souza informed the audience about the Goods and Services Tax (GST).  While the Goa State Centre Institution of Engineers (India) chairman Gurunath M Naik Parrikar welcomed, the secretary Deepak A Karmalkar proposed the vote of thanks.