PATIALA: Taking a leaf out of neighbouring Haryana’s   book, Punjab is planning to set minimum   in the state. Such changes at panchayat level in Haryana, introduced in August 2015, were hotly contested but finally upheld by the Punjab and Haryana high court and subsequently the Supreme Court.

 Through an amendment in the Punjab Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, the government intends to make mandatory Class X as the minimum educational qualification for those planning to contest for the post of sarpanch. Class VIII level education would be must for SC and ST candidates and class V for women contestants. These are in line with the conditions set by the Haryana and approved by the apex court. The next panchayat polls in Punjab are due in 2018.
 
 Confirming the move, rural development and panchayats minister Tripat Bajwa said a proposal had been already been moved and would soon be put for discussions in cabinet, following which a finished draft will be put before chief minister   for a final call.
 
 The minster said that out of about nearly 50 per cent of panchayat members in the state were illiterate. He hope dthat the decision would be taken before the next panchayat elections. 
 
 “It has come to light that panchayat secretaries at times make illiterate sarpanches sign documents without their knowledge and then exploit it to their own advantage. This must be put to an end,” Bajwa said.
 
 According to the data compiled by the rural development early this year, there are 13,028 sarpanches in the state out of which 1,521 are illiterate. Ferozepur has maximum 140 illiterate sarpanches, while Bathinda has the least at 10.
 
 The report says the state has only 10 sarpanches with a professional graduation degree like BCA or BTech. There are 163 are postgraduates, 1,049 are graduates, 1,656 have passed Class XII. In addition, 4,565 are matriculates, 2,075 have passed eighth, while 1,989 are educated up to Class V. There are 35 others who joined a school but did not reach Class V.
 
 
