GURUGRAM: The   of   has issued   to  , belonging to controversial former state minister  , for   construction. The notice alleges that the entire second floor of the mall has been constructed illegally, in violation of the approved plan, and is thus likely to be demolished.

 Hong Kong Bazar Mall, inside Sushant Lok 2 in Sector 57, is spread over an acre. As per approved plan, the second floor could only have had 432.778 sq m of covered area. But the entire second floor was covered, in violation of the approved plan. 
 
 Gurgaon-based activist Harinder Dhingra filed an RTI application in April 2016, seeking information about the mall’s building plan, based on which, he filed a complaint with DTCP, highlighting the violation and unauthorised  . “Following my September 2016 complaint, DTCP removed some kiosks from the front and gave the mall a clean chit,” said Dhingra. Unhappy with the action, he filed a fresh complaint with Lokayukta, which asked DTCP to submit a report. 
 
 As per DTCP sources, an inspection revealed that though only 432.778 sq m of construction was approved on the mall’s second floor, the builders had fully covered the second floor with an atrium, creating a floor area of 1,409 sq m. “Area of 976.222 sq m has been illegally constructed in violation of approved building plan,” he said.
 
 District town planner (enforcement) Rajendra T Sharma told TOI they issued the notice after inspecting the mall. The notice was issued on June 20, with   likely to be carried out in a week’s time.
 
 Earlier in 2016, DTCP had removed encroachment from the corridor and rear of the mall. “These have come up again,” said the official, adding the notice also covers these points. “The mall has raised additional unauthorised construction, and made encroachments in the corridor and rear setback area, in violation of sanctioned plan. These are liable for legal action,” read the notice.
 
 The mall owner, who is out on bail in connection with the suicide case of his employee, air-hostess Geetika Sharma, could not be contacted for comment.
 
 
