PATNA: One   (36) of Lebanon, who had come to Nepal last year to help the earthquake victims, has been languishing in Sitamarhi jail since July 7 for mistakenly entering the Indian territory. The Lebanese embassy in Delhi has communicated to the   about his innocence, but to no avail. 

 Fadel, a native of Zahle in Lebanon, was arrested by Sitamarhi police in Bihar (case number 432/16) after he was found strolling in the Indian territory without noticing the Indo-Nepal borderline, a letter written on November 21, 2016 by the Lebanese embassy in Delhi to the Ministry of External Affairs, said. He was charged under Sections 467, 468, 471 and 120 IPC and Section 13 and 14 of Foreign Act 1946. 
 
 Quoting the Foreign Act, the embassy letter says Fadel (passport number RL2375581) should be deported under Section 3 of the Act as Section 120 IPC was removed in the chargesheet. In another communication on January 23 this year (To whom it may concern), the embassy declared Fadel a respectable citizen of Lebanon with no criminal history and who entered the Indian territory by mistake.
 
 A Lebanese embassy official, preferring anonymity, told TOI on Friday that they are in touch with MEA authorities. TOI tried to contact Lebanon ambassador to India  , but his cellphone was switched off.
 
 Fadel’s counsel   said he had reached Nepal from Dubai after the devastating earthquake hit the country in April 2015. “Fadel, on a tourist visa issued on December 13, 2015, continued helping victims in Nepal’s Dolakha and Pokhara districts. He was the logistic coordinator with a private oil firm in Dubai,” Sinha said.
 
 Sinha said his client has moved the Patna high court requesting quashing of the FIR lodged against him, as he has been booked for forgery which he did not commit. “The writ petition along with a regular bail petition will come up for hearing on February 8,” Sinha said. She also said a Sitamarhi court denied bail to Fadel on January 5 saying he was a threat to national security.
 
 “Only shampoo bottles, clothes, cellphone, hard disk, bike, Nepalese, Indian and Chinese currency were recovered from his possession,” she added.
 
