LUKNOW: For the first time UP will witness fundamental changes in the functioning of the state machinery as the new chief minister   has given a stern message to the ministers and the bureaucracy to stay away from corrupt practices and also  , observed senior BJP leader and   Siddharth Nath Singh. 

 Talking to TOI, the BJP leader said that the way Yogi has interacted with his ministers and top bureaucrats within 48 hours of assuming office as CM and also set the agenda is unprecedented.
 
 "One does not need to talk of the impeccable honesty, his commitment for good governance and his vision for drastic changes for the welfare of the state and the public at large", said the new health minister. He said that the inclusion of the minorities in his government has also dispelled any doubts, strengthening the promise of 'sabka saath, sabka vikas'. The main emphasis of the government is law and order, women safety and empowerment and infrastructural improvement in the field of power and roads, because good infrastructure is a guarantee for investment, which is a guarantee for employment, he said.
 
 "What we witnessed in the   government was gross misuse of authorities in the UP Public Service commission to favouring a few and denying thousands of meritorious and qualified youth. The ban on recruitments and the interviews by the chief minister through the UPPSC is just one example of his intent in imparting justice to all," said the minister.
 
 In reply to a question, the minister denied that most of the announcements and actions like forming of the crack anti-Romeo squad were a mere cosmetic exercise and aimed at drawing publicity. He said that ensuring safety measures for girls and women was neglected by the police in the previous regime, but this has been changed. He said that the CM has also issued instructions for checking any violence in the name of revellery or communal tensions.
 
 He said that even senior bureaucrats have lauded the intent and commitment for issues like sanitation and checking corruption.
 
 
