Patiala: Karan Sharma, elder brother of Neha Sharma, who was killed in police firing on November 27, 2016, at a police barrier set up on Samana-Cheeka road following Nabha jailbreak, has claimed that his family is under constant pressure to comprise and let go the main accused in the case. He has alleged that they are being forced to compromise or lose the job given to his younger brother after the incident.

 According to sources, a magisterial inquiry marked to Samana SDM had almost given the cops a clean chit, claiming that those on duty had ‘genuine apprehensions’ and shots were fired as the car, in which Neha was travelling, did not stop even after being signalled. Neha, a dancer by profession, had died on the spot after hit by two bullets.
 
 Karan said he had refused to give any statement before the magistrate while his mother and younger brother were made to do so under pressure. He alleged that the police were now asking them not to raise the matter any further or else his younger brother would be thrown out of the police job, which he was given on ad hoc basis. The family had also received a compensation of Rs 10 lakh. 
 
 “The police are threatening us with dire consequences if we do not give a statement according to their will,” Karan alleged. He also claimed that the police had thrice made an attempt to approach him and get his signatures on the statement to be submitted to Samana SDM. “Even though I refused, pressure is still there on me to sign the report,” he said, adding that his family wanted justice for Neha, who died at a young age of 20.
 
 Samana SDM Amreshwar Singh said that, “The statements were recorded on March 2 and the report had been prepared on the basis of facts. Two wounds were found on the victim’s body. More than five bullets were fired from the automatic weapon of constable Sher Singh.” The SDM said Sher had admitted that the bullets that killed Neha had been fired by him. “There seemed no pressure on the victim’s family members. I repeatedly asked them about any pressure on them, but they denied,” the SDM said, admitting that all family members had not signed the statement.
 
 Sources revealed that the police were yet to add the name of constable Sher in the FIR. Meanwhile, Patiala SSP S Bhupati feigned ignorance about the matter. He said, “The victim’s family can approach the higher authorities if there is any threat. I will look into it and then take up the matter.” 
 
 
