Before language, there was art. 

 Art is what makes us, us. At the recently held event in GSVlabs (an incubator aimed at developing a Global  ), stalwarts from arts, sciences, and tech discussed how there is untapped value at the intersection of the three fields. 
 
 Andy Cunningham, an innovator who worked closely with Steve Jobs, said how Jobs viewed himself as an artist. She displayed the above Mobius strip from a 1963 poster by MC Escher, and showed how art inspires creativity.
  
  
 
 Bob Isherwood, chairman of the Global Creative Council for Innocean Worldwide, claimed that great scientists are artists, and the reverse is true as well. 
 
 "It is saddening that if "a kid fails in math", parents get math tuitions for the kid, but if s/he fails in art, "parents do nothing", because of the psyche that art will not have any impact on the future," Isherwood said. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 He further said that artists are great problem solvers. Isherwood displayed Van Gogh's and Jackson Pollack's art to show how they solved the problem of 'immediacy'.
  
 "Artists push technology", Isherwood said, pointing at  's sci-fi dress design (below).
 
  
  
 He expressed how we need to move from STEM to STEAM ('A' for 'art') in order to use both sides of the brain. Else, it's just a "half-brained idea".
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Scott Paterson, an architect with over 20 years of experience, and worked in IDEO, was next up on stage. Paterson began with mentioning his life-altering book Drawing on the right side of the Brain by Betty Edwards, a book about artistic confidence and enhancing creativity. 
 
 "To enable design thinking, we need people with desirability, business with viability, and technology with feasibility", Paterson said. He proceeded to give some easy DIYs, that would help us enhance our creativity. 
 
 * If you're stuck, turn it upside down. 
 * Draw your notes; don't write them.
 * Look for an alternative who, how, and when. 
 * Follow
 
  
 
 During the panel discussion, Isherwood also seconded Paterson's note-taking method; he said, "Writing is essentially drawing." 
 
  said that incubators, in general, can become bubbles, and thus, to get out of the bubble, one must try new things everyday. He said, "Go home a different way… Do something slightly different…"
 
  
  
 
 Susan Magsamen, executive director of the International Arts and Mind Lab at the Brain Science Institute at Johns Hopkins University, remarked that "people need to play more." "We should not think of just fitting in, but should rather aim at playing with things and ideas," Magsamen said. 
 
 Deena Chalabi, associate curator of Public Dialogue at San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, said how we need to look at the bigger picture of life, and should then aim at including art at the intersection of tech and sciences.
 
 "Postly is your own private social network for your inner circle people you love, but don't need to impress. Be yourself in this network that promotes authentic relationships," Julie Sautter said.
 
  
  
 
 
 Bill T Sautter, managing partner of Galaxy Ventures said that we look for technology that is valuable and management teams that are adaptable.   is an art and science. The National VC association found that VCs only had a 5% success rate since 1960s!
 
 James Hilton, CEO, Parlourboard said that we marry search and recommendation. Parlourboard allows you to connect with a community around something that you love and to find a product you'll enjoy, all from a mobile phone.
 
  
  
 
 
