They lived in the jungle, braving wildlife, venomous snakes and poachers. All these years, they eked out a livelihood by collecting wood and forest produce albeit with a fear of being penalised for living and taking from the land which has been their home for generations. But, now the tribals of Tamil Nadu can do so without any  

 Thanks to the implementation of the Forest Rights Act of 2006, tribals and forest dwellers have finally got the title deeds for the land they were living in for generations. Though the Act came into existence 11 years ago, the   issued a restrictive order on it in 2008, staying the issuance of title deeds to tribals. The stay was lifted by the Supreme Court in February last year.
 
 Tribal welfare department sources say soon after the stay was lifted they started identifying tribals and forest dwellers —families living in the forest for more than 75 years — across the state. The places where these tribes reside were marked using global positioning system. This is done to identify the place, using GPRS codes.
 
 A senior official said 266 title deeds in Dharmapuri, 203 in Villupuram and three in Salem have been distributed so far. In other districts the survey is in progress and before the end of this year the title deeds will be distributed to all the tribals in the state. Meanwhile the department is also working on the modalities regarding collection of forest produce, both by individuals and communities, the officer said.
 
 V Azhagesan, a tribal from Chiteri forests in Dharmapuri district said the implementation of the Act has given his family clear rights, as they traditionally have been living in the forests for four generations now. "Now we can collect any minor forest produce and sell it for our own benefit. We can also harvest edible products like honey and bamboo from the forest," he says. 
 
 While the state government has implemented the first step of issuing deeds to tribals, the next step would be allowing both individuals and communities to collect minor forest produces.
 
 Tamil Nadu, however, has to go a long way when it comes to matching steps with other states in ensuring welfare of tribal communities. Compared to many states in the country, implementation of Forest Rights Act in Tamil Nadu is very slow, says former head of forest force and principal chief conservator of forests C K Sreedharan. 
 
 Almost 65% of tribals have received their title deeds in Kerala, while 64% have received the same in Odisha until January 31 this year. "No tribe in TN had received their title deeds during the same time," he says. 
 
 Sreedharan, however, says the state can use the Act to implement land reformation in tribal areas of the state. "Land is the most valuable, imperishable possession from which people derive their economic independence and social status. Land also assures them of identity, dignity and social equality. This effort will not only generate goodwill among tribals and benefit them, but also culminate in better consolidation and protection of natural resources," he adds.
 
