CHENNAI:   on Tuesday criticised the   government in Tamil Nadu, which completed one year in office, for “doing precious little and earning disrepute because of rampant corruption”. 

 In a letter to the cadre, DMK working president M K Stalin said time had come for a regime change through democratic means. “This government has not done anything for people. Even food and water are scarce,” he said.
 
 “In its 2011 manifesto, the AIADMK promised to provide 20 litres of water to every household. But, the promise hasn’t been fulfilled so far,” he said. “People are holding protests to demand shutting down of liquor shops. Transport employees are seeking a hike in their salaries. But the government has not taken any steps to stop the protests,” said Stalin.
 
 Stating that Tamil Nadu was lagging behind other states on many parameters, Stalin said, “The time has come for the state to shine under the light of the sun (referring to the rising sun symbol of DMK).” 
 
 PMK founder S Ramadoss too criticised the Palaniswami government, saying, “The worst government in the state since 1921 was that of J Jayalalithaa’s during 1991-96. But, the current government under Palaniswami has outdone that regime. There is corruption in all departments, and people are waiting for this government to go,” said Ramadoss.
 
 TNCC president S Thirunavukkarasar said the Palaniswami government was like a rudderless ship without a captain. With former ministers and MLAs rebelling against the leadership, there is a question mark over its future, he said in a party release. He recalled that in the last one year, the state had suffered several disasters such as the December 2015 floods, cyclone Vardah in 2016 and the severe drought this year.
 
 He said though the state government had sought much higher financial aid, the BJP-led government at the Centre granted only Rs 4,000 crore, despite the fact that Tamil Nadu is facing its worst drought in 140 years.
 
 He said the AIADMK government did not have a strong leadership nor unity to raise its voice against “injustices” meted out by the Centre. “As the country's third biggest party, why are they not speaking up for the state,” he wondered.
 
 
