NEW DELHI: Good monsoon and an abundance of food across wetlands in Delhi and its neighbouring areas made it a fruitful year for  , with more species being spotted than last year. The results of the  , an annual event aimed to record bird species found across the country, were released on Thursday. According to them, 268 species were recorded this year, up from 228 last year.

 The event was conducted on Feburary 5 by the DelhiBird group and over 40 groups participated, each comprising close to 25 birders. Schoolchildren also took part in this year’s count. “The response this year has been very good. Over 1,000 birders participated and we chose some new locations like Neela Hauz, Tughlakabad and Tilpath Valley for bird counting. More diversity was seen this year, along with many rare sightings, as the wetlands across the NCR are still full of water. A good monsoon has certainly helped and there is a lot of food for these birds,” said Nikhil Devasar, organiser of the Big Bird Day.
 
 According to Devasar, a number of rare sightings were also made this year, which included birds like the Great bittern and Water rail in Dhanauri; a White-bellied minivet and White-tailed iora near Sohna; and a Black-throated thrush in Dighal. An Orphean warbler and a Brooks leaf warbler were also spotted this year. “More birders are coming out, which means more eyes are there to spot these birds. We also participate in birding activities every Sunday and encourage people to join in and learn,” Devasar added.
 
 A total of 103 species were seen at   this year as compared to 91 last year. The rare sightings included orange headed thrush and a white-tailed lapwing. Kamla Nehru Ridge recorded 55 species this year, including a red-throated flycatcher. Tughlakabad Biodiversity Park, where this event took place recorded 26 species, including a steppe eagle sighting.
 
 “A Marshall’s Iora and a brooks leaf warbler were spotted by our group at Mangar forest, where we spent a lot of time before heading to  . The findings have been particularly fruitful this year,” said birder Pankaj Gupta.
 
 
