Two days before International Women's Day, Maneka Sanjay Gandhi, the minister for Women and Child Development, made a statement that lots of young women and men saw as rather 'un-developmental' for women. As part of a panel discussion, she justified early curfew for girls staying in hostels, saying it was needed to protect them from their own "hormonal outbursts" . Though she later tried to mitigate her comment by saying that the 'lakshman rekha' wasn’t only for girls, that there should be curfews for boys as well, the damage had already been done.

  Her rather ill-timed comment re-ignited the debate about earlier curfews for women in hostels, which has been taken up by many campus groups. It also sparked again the conversation about how the problem of 'women’s safety' is resolved by restricting women, rather than deterring men, even in progressive spaces like educational campuses. The ‘outburst’ her statement received was an un-hormonal one from the many teenagers who live in hostels, who asked how the female politician in charge of the women and child development portfolio could hold such views.
 
  
 Swati Awana, 17, a first-year student at  , says, "If something is to go wrong, then it can happen in the day as well. If we are in a position to make our own career choices, then we can also understand the basic difference between what is right and what is wrong for us. You do not expect such a comment from the politician handling the Ministry of Women and Child Development. As far as the 'lakshman rekha' is concerned, I don’t think we need restrictions to protect us. We just need to know our limitations, and that is it."
 
  
 Navneet Sethi, 17, a first-year student at  , says that teenagers may have ‘hormonal outbursts’, but that does not mean that they can’t control themselves. She says, "I think she was referring to teenagers not being able to stop themselves from engaging in sexual activities. How can a teenager be "hormonally challenged"? It is a natural biological process that one goes through. My parents have never given me any deadlines, but that does not mean that I am doing something wrong. If my parents are not marking out any lakshman rekha for me, then it’s clear that I have an understanding of my own limits."
 
  
 Deeksha Tiwari, 18, a first-year student from  , says, "Her comment made it seem as if we have some problem that we can’t deal with, and we cannot handle this age sensibly. If we can stay away from our homes and manage things on our own, then we can surely handle our hormones. If she thinks a lakshman rekha will help, then she should know that we will stop doing something only when we want to."
 
  
 Aastha Guruprasad, 18, a first-year student from  , says, "When we are expected to choose our careers at this age, how can you say that we aren't mature enough to handle our emotions? This wasn't really the right usage of words. We keep talking about equal rights for women, and then we want to restrict them by imposing earlier hostel curfews for them. I hope she didn’t mean that a hormonal change is a disorder. It is a natural process."
 
 
 
