Symptoms of a   are not always clear-cut. Not everyone has crushing chest pain. Some heart symptoms don't even happen in your chest, and it's not always easy to tell what's going on. You can have   without chest pain during a heart attack.

 While chest pain is a well-known  , it's much easier to miss this sign if the pain mimics typical shoulder, neck, or jaw pain. Damaged heart tissue or angina pain from a blocked artery sends pain signals up and down the spinal cord to junctures with nerves that radiate out from the cervical vertebrae. The pain may travel up the neck to the jaw and even to the ear, or radiate down the shoulder to the arm and hand, or it may center between the shoulder blades. The pain may feel sharp, or it may be a dull ache such as you'd feel with a pulled muscle.
 
 Pain in your jaw is one of many signs in your body's warning system that something is wrong. The   are complex structures containing muscles, tendons, and bones. Jaw pain can result from trauma to the jawbone, including fractures and dislocations. The pain may occur when chewing or may occur at rest; may occur on one side or on both sides. Additionally, other medical conditions not related to the TMJ may cause perceived pain in the jaw area. Some kinds of arthritis, often osteoarthritis, can affect the TMJ and lead to pain when moving the joint.By itself, throat or jaw pain probably isn't heart related. More likely, it's caused by a muscular issue, trigeminal neuralgia, a cold, or a sinus problem. But if you have pain or pressure in the centre of your chest that spreads up into your throat or jaw, it could be a sign of a heart attack.
 
 It cannot be emphasized enough that a heart attack can have symptoms other than chest pain and these symptoms should be checked immediately. If you are at threat by way of virtue of age, case history, high blood stress, high cholesterol, smoking history, and so forth, it's far better to be safe than sorry and get yourself checked by a health care professional.
 
 Agony ought to be regarded; it is confirmation that there is something is abnormal. Even though it is not cardiac, it deserves your attention. While a broken rib may mend itself, a torn rotator sleeve or TMJ issues won't.
 
 
 
 
