Nagpur: Many schools affiliated to CBSE are struggling to shift completely to   from this session even as pressure from the board mounts to comply. Schools say orders for books have been placed in December and January itself which means implementing NCERT-only regime is possible in 2018-19 academic session only. CBSE’s Chennai regional office, under whose jurisdiction all Nagpur schools come, has warned of surprise checks on premises to ensure that only NCERT books are being used. 

 A principal said, “Every school is ready to implement CBSE directives but there must be ample time given to make the change. I think from next academic session this can be definitely possible.” Schools say the immediate problem they face in shifting to NCERT books is the short time frame. A principal claimed that there are still many books which are not available in the market. “The book for Std XII Psychology subject is not there and for Physical Education (XII) there is no book printed. That’s why for the latter we were using a private publisher’s book and now it has got embroiled in controversy over the ‘hourglass figure’ for girls,” the principal said. Another principal added that with academic session for Std X and XII starting in April itself, to give them a head start, the shortage of books is a big disadvantage. 
 
 For schools, the threat of CBSE action still looms large. In a letter written last month to schools under his jurisdiction, Mahesh Dharmadhikari, regional officer at Chennai, said his office will be bound to initiate action if any complaint regarding this is received. While Dharmadhikari’s letter states that schools must ‘mandatorily use NCERT textbooks’, CBSE’s bylaws are a bit different. In fact the board has actually put up a video advisory (http://cbse.nic.in/newsite/video.html) for schools regarding books by private publishers which says that extreme care is to be taken while prescribing them. This advisory does not mention anything about private publishers books being banned. In this video CBSE has highlighted the fact that they acted against a private publisher. It’s obvious that the central board wants to send a clear message that they will take an aggressive stand whenever inappropriate text finds its way into classrooms. CBSE’s guidelines clearly state that in case private publishers’ books are used, the principal will have to give a signed declaration that he/she has gone through the entire content of the book and there is nothing objectionable in it.
 
 
