 The ongoing tussle in the Grand Alliance is likely to reach its climax soon. While senior   leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and his party MP from Araria Mohammed   attacked CM  , JD(U) spokespersons said deputy CM   Prasad Yadav must resign over the corruption charges or a final decision on him would come any time soon.
 
  CBI has lodged an FIR against Lalu Prasad’s son Tejashwi and wife Rabri Devi, among others, in a land-for-railways hotels deal when the RJD chief was the railway minister.
  
  “Nitish kaun se doodh se dhule hain. Raat mein BJP ke sath aur din mein RJD ke sath rehte hain (Nitish is not clean himself. He spends the night with BJP and day with RJD),” Taslimuddin said while Raghuvansh said bribery was rampant in all the government offices in the state. “What is this big drama about zero tolerance on corruption when bribe is being openly taken in every government office in the state,” Raghuvansh said.
  
  He also said, “Nitish is the leader of the Grand Alliance and it is his responsibility to ensure that it is maintained.” Raghuvansh also took a dig at the CM and said tongues were wagging that Nitish was in talks with the BJP.
  
  Reacting to the RJD statements, a JD(U) spokesperson said, “Nitish ji has made up his mind that Tejashwi must resign. He also conveyed the same to Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi and has given ample time to RJD to act as he also wants Lalu’s party to choose Tejashwi’s alternative. It is now only a matter of time for Nitish ji to take a final call on the issue.”
  
  Incidentally, the verbal dual between the two alliance partners turned nastier on the day when Enforcement Directorate (ED) decided to seize a farmhouse in Delhi owned by Lalu’s eldest daughter and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti. Sources said the central agency was not convinced with Misa and her husband Shailesh’s explanation in the money laundering case.
  
  Congress, which was donning the role of a mediator till recently, avoided any comment on Monday. Bihar Congress president and education Ashok Choudhary refused to comment on the political crisis in the Grand Alliance.
  
  However, D M Diwakar of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies said, “I personally think the GA will not break. JD(U) questioning RJD on corruption charges is irrelevant because Nitish knew well about Lalu’s background before joining hands for the 2015 assembly election. I believe the ongoing verbal assault by JD(U) is only to pressurise RJD to allow the government to function as per Nitish’s wish.”
  
  He also said chances of Nitish going to BJP are also bleak as the CM knows very well that after his government falls, the saffron party would not be as friendly to him as they are portraying right now. BJP has already showed readiness to support Nitish, but not before he severs his ties with Lalu.
