CHENNAI: Dancer-choreographer Preethi Athreya also calls her work 'Conditions of Carriage', the ' '. Although considered a  , its primary act is contained in the act of jumping ­ “a forceful, energetic expression accessible to all ages and backgrounds,“ she says.

 The performers ­ dancers of various backgrounds, a lawyer and an art therapist, among others ­ understand and execute the jumping differently. For those who have followed this contemporary dancer's repertoire, such queer executions aren't new. Though trained in  , Athreya steers clear of incorporating definite styles, and instead, in her own words, “works with basic principles of movement and particular physiologies“.
 
 “The notion of performing arts ­ especially classical dance ­ began to change about 30 years ago,“ says Sadanand Menon, whose performance arena, Spaces, is known to host and encourage some of the most original and non-conforming performances. “It was no longer strictly classical, but could integrate other elements, such as folk movements, martial arts and masks. And as auditorium spaces in India started getting better, greater understanding and appreciation of working with lights and sounds was created. This has been steadily on the rise,“ he adds.
 
 In her time, legendary dancer Chandralekha revolutionised the understanding of dance by laying exemplary emphasis on body discipline through yoga, martial arts and breathing techniques. Her school of dance went on to become a movement in itself, with celebrated productions such as 'Sharira' gaining recognition and reverence world over.
 
 The emergence and need for expanding contexts and versatility can be seen in theatre too, as productions are being made to be more comprehensive in subject and presentation. In many ways, this is even pointed at making them more credible in their narrative, feels V   of Theatre Nisha. In his play , `Gallantly Fought the Queen', based on the Rani of Jhansi, for instance, actor Meera Sitaraman can be seen singing on stage, performing the Devarattam, faultlessly using the sword and narrating the story ­ all over a period of 70 minutes.
 
 “An actor's repertoire should con sist of not merely the ability speak lines, but also their understanding of music, movement and dance through the body . This is done using breathing techniques, yoga and martial arts,“ says Balakrishnan. “The misquoted concept of English theatre ­ with the stiff, upper lip kind of acting ­ may have come into India during the British rule, but has unfortunately stayed on to become the norm. As a result, we have completely neglected and negated our own tradition,“ he adds.
 
 The scope of integrating multiple disciplines has influenced several fine artists as well. Most famously, city based C Krishnaswamy uses a whole canvas as his stage quite literally, as he performs complex asanas on painted canvases, forming wild, inadvert ent abstracts.
 
 “Everyone is looking to add more to what they are doing already , as their craft alone is not enough,“ says  , curator, Apparao Galleries.
 
 “They realise they can give themselves more gravitas by doing so; the way artist Atul Dodiya uses litera ture in his work or Alexis Kersey uses popular culture,“ she says.
 
 Menon believes it really boils down to what drives an artist to create such work. “At times, it manages to inspire and other times, it just becomes un necessary and ex cessive,“ he says.
 
