ATTARI: As many as 11 Pakistani prisoners, including a young girl, were repatriated by India on Tuesday via Attari land border on completion of their jail sentences. However, two Pakistani sisters and a daughter of one of them, await nod from the Prime Minister’s office (PMO) for clearance of their files. They have deposited the requisite amount for their release.

 Rubina, one of the prisoners returning home, had tears in her eyes. “My husband brought me from Pakistan for treatment in Delhi in 2010. I was admitted to a private hospital but one day he didn’t turn up, leaving me and my daughter Jannatara alone.” 
 
 She said she was not sure whether his family would accept her back or not, adding that she had reached Amritsar with the help of some people in Delhi, only to be arrested for trying to cross the border without a passport or travel document. She was sentenced to two years in jail. “But I have been released after six years behind bars without any crime,” she said.
 
 Little Jannatara was oblivious to the suffering of her mother. She said didn’t know what was happening around her. All she said, “I don’t know anything, My ammi knows.”
 
 Another prisoner Mohammad Shahbaz will never forget the day when he came to attend the marriage ceremony of his maternal uncle. “My uncle’s house was in Narowal. We were all enjoying the occasion and then I along with two friends decided to go on a stroll. We didn’t realise that we had crossed the border and reached Dera Baba Nanak in India until we were held by the Border Security Force personnel,” said Shahbaz. 
 
 He said they were sentenced for just one-and-a-half month in prison, but remained lodged there for more than a year. 
 
 Meanwhile, two Pakistani sisters   and  , are still waiting to be freed from an Indian prison even after an NGO had deposited the fine for their release to save them further two years of imprisonment. Batala-based NGO Humanity Club had deposited Rs 4 lakh to secure release of Fatima and Mumtaz, who were caught smuggling narcotics into India and were sentenced to 10 years. In case of non-payment of fine, both   and Hina, daughter of Fatima who was born in the Amritsar jail, would have to serve another two years.
 
 Society for Women Empowerment and Green Causes president Navjot Kaur Chabba said she was contemplating filing a writ petition seeking expeditious movement of the file so that Fatima and Mumtaz, along with the young girl, could be sent home.
 
 “Despite depositing the required fine, the delay in sending the Pakistani women back to their country has undermined the very purpose of the NGO’s gesture,” she said.
 
 Navjot said she had contacted the Union home ministry and was told that in case of release of Pakistani prisoners, the file had to be cleared by the PMO.
 
