KOLHAPUR: Wrestling lovers are set for a thrilling experience when the best in the field will tussle at the   here on January 8. 

 Enthusiasts will get a chance to watch 180 wrestling bouts, where the main attraction will be fight between Bharat Kesari Kamaljit Singh from Punjab and Bharat Kesari Hitesh Kumar from Haryana. Women wrestlers will also demonstrate their skills maidan during the competition. 
 
 The competition will be organised by Dr D Y Patil Kala, Krida, Shaikshanik and   and is approved by   and District National Talim Sanghs. This is the fifth year of the competition.
 
 MLA Satej Patil, head of the organisation committee of wrestling competition, said Kolhapur has a long tradition of wrestling and the aim of organising the competition is to boost this tradition. It would draw young people towards this sport and make them choose to be a professional wrestler. 
 
 “With the wrestlers from across India participating in the competition, we are expecting a huge turnout. People are interested in the sport now, especially after watching movie Dangal, which was based on the life of award-winning women wrestlers Geeta and Babita Phogat,” Patil said. 
 
 “Along with organising wrestling competitions in more than nine weight categories, we will also organise demonstration bouts of women wrestlers from the district. We are discussing the issue with the girls who have recently won wrestling competitions at the state and national level. After we get their detailed schedule, we will announce the names of these wrestlers. This will help boost the wrestling spirit among girls,” he said.
 
 Among the other major attractions are the bout between Swarup Singh from Haryana and   from Pune. The winner will be handed a citation and certificate along with a traditional gada after the bout. The cash prize will be transferred to the bank account of the respective wrestler by RTGS immediately after the competition. 
 
 The organisers will felicitate Triple Maharashtra Kesari Vijay Choudhari and wrestler Rohit Patel at Khasbag maidan during the competition.
 
