CHENNAI: Both the factions of the AIADMK made a splash with distribution of welfare aid to the poor to mark the celebration of former chief minister  's 69th birth anniversary in the city on Friday.

 Chief minister   on Friday launched a massive tree planting programme ­ planting 69 lakh saplings of various plants in the state in commemoration of Jayalalithaa's 69th birth anniversary. He also unveiled a massive greening programme in the areas affected by cyclone Vardah. Palaniswami planted a Magizham (Mimusops elengi) at a function held at Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital campus in Omandurar Estate.
 
 An official statement said mass planting of saplings would go on till December. Forests, educational institutions, public and private complexes, road sides, and parks would be chosen for planting sapling.The forest department has identified species like Aalam, Iluppai, Punnai, Mandarai, Pungan, Magizham, Poovarasu and Vembu that are conducive to the state's climatic condition.
 
 In a bid to increase the green cover in the state, the ruling AIADMK has been carrying out mass tree planting in the last few years. In 2012, 64 lakh saplings were planted during Jayalalithaa's birthday , and subsequently the numbers shot up in line with her age.
 
 AIADMK deputy general secretary   led the party by paying floral tributes to Jayalalithaa at the party office. Environment minister and party treasurer Dindigul C Sreenivasan released a souvenir, a copy of which was received by TN assembly deputy speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman.Health and family welfare department, with the support of government and private hospitals, organised 690 special medical camps across the state. The camps will be held for five days.
 
 The faction led by former chief minister   organised its main function at Jayalalithaa's   constituency . “We have goodies for more than 12,000 people and all of them are below the poverty line. We distributed fish carts, idly carts, cycles, scooters, cookers and cricket bats among other things,“ said North Chennai Amma Peravai general secretary R S Rajesh, an active member of the OPS wing. The OPS faction spent around Rs 40 lakh on the function, said sources. Dance and songs kept the audience engaged till OPS and other leaders reached the venue.
 
