It was an experience as sweet as mishti doi. And though British actress Pip Phillips ' who was last seen in the American TV series, The  , and has projects like King Arthur: Legend of the Sword and Our Little Haven lined up ' left   last year after shooting an ad with  , Bengal hasn't left her. 'The people I met kept in touch and my phone inbox is flooded with messages from them after the Bengal tourism ad went viral,' the British actress told us from London. She now wants to come back and explore the state that felt like her own. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 It happened through my agency. They got in touch with the concerned people and got back to me, saying they wanted me. They told me it's going to be about everyday life; the moments that make it special. I soon found out that they loved my work and were keen to bring me over.
 
 
 
 
 It was last year ' end-January to the beginning of February. I stayed there for about 15 days, but we only shot for about 12 days.
 
 
 
 I had never been to India before and wanted to explore the country in general. So, when I went down to Kolkata, it was experiencing a different culture, new people'. I live in London and things are completely different there. In Kolkata, I was immediately welcomed by the people, who I thought were exceptionally warm. I came across some incredible 
 
 
 
 
 They got the whole oeuvre of Bengali food for me and I enjoyed every bit of it. The fish was gorgeous, I had never had something like this before and I couldn't stop eating. I also tasted the fabled Bengali sweets. They were incredibly sweet and even though I don't have sweets much, these came across as different. I had quite a bit and after a while, was kind of feeling sick. More so, as I eat in small amounts. Bengali food is spicy and it was quite a treat.
 
 
 
 It's such a difficult thing to say. I liked everything about Bengal; I had never thought I would see so many different places on one assignment. Every time I went to a different place, I was told about the different stories connected with it. They are all etched on my mind now. When I saw the ad, all those memories came rushing back. The places that I visited and the people I met hold a special place in my heart.
 
 
 
 I had never seen one. It was beautiful! What made it even more special were the little suggestions about the jewellery, what garland to wear, the attire' Everyone in India has their own way of doing things and I now have a first-hand experience of it. I was not clued into the Indian culture though I had heard a lot about 
 the country.
 
 
 
 Yes, of course. Shah Rukh Khan is such a popular actor. He is recognised everywhere in the world and a lot of my friends were very excited about the shoot. In Kolkata, I realised all that we were doing ' shooting in Maidan in the dead of the night ' was a big secret. But Shah Rukh Khan is such a nice guy. Despite his stardom, he is extremely rooted. He made me feel comfortable on the sets. In India, I learnt how big and fantastic a star he is; yet he came across as so down to earth. I think that's the best part about the country and its people. It felt lovely. Also, when I came back and my friends saw the video, they asked me, 'You got to meet him? He is incredible; he is massive'. A lot of people know him here.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 He was excited about the tram ride, just like I was. He told me how much he loved that part of India and asked me to travel and see more of it. He said, 'You are going to love it'. And he was right in what he said.
 
 
 
 I haven't seen; I should. Recommend a whole list for me. He told me about the film he was doing. He spoke about its many aspects. I think that film is called Raees ' I want to watch it at the earliest.
 
 
 A lot of people are getting clued into Bollywood and its actors. With Bollywood films travelling the world over, it has got more visibility over the past few years.
 
 
 
 
 That's what I kept thinking when I left the country last year. I really hope something comes up real soon.
 
 
 
 
 The people I met in India have been sending me fantastic messages about how the ad has gone viral. I am getting feedback from a lot of people. And all that has made me 
 feel like going back as soon as possible. I feel there's so much more to see. I was working when I visited the different places; now I want to see the rest. 
 
 
 
 
 I had heard about her (CM  ) when I was there, but I didn't get to meet her.
 
 
 
 It has to be when I went to Santiniketan. I saw the baul (Sadhan Das Bairagya) dancing and it cannot match anything that I had seen before. I got to spend a lot of time there, so I met a lot of people. They were all full of stories; I heard about their colourful lifestyle. Listening to them was an experience in itself. Also, the instruments that they play make the sweetest sound ever.
 
 
