When   was 16 years old, he inherited a two-storey house on a river in Mepral, a village close to  , where his father had grown up. 

 By tradition, the house was always passed to the youngest son, which he was. But it wasn't a house he needed or wanted. He was a teenager, living with his family in Delhi. After college, he moved to the   to study at Harvard, where he worked for three decades as an architect. Ten years ago, he became a full-time abstract painter.
 
 But the house meant something to him and his family. More than four generations had used the 300-year-old structure, built high above rice paddies in the river's flood plain. But as family members went abroad or died, the house, named  , sat empty and went into decline.
 
 Its foundation and lower floor were made of porous whitewashed laterite stone blocks that during monsoon floods sank a little farther into the soft ground; perched upstairs, the ancient structure of Anjili hardwood was joined, as in Japanese temples, without any nails. Its peaked roof made of clay tiles from Mangalore effectively kept out storms. Over the years, Meda's three rooms and two wide verandas on the north and south sides sheltered the family members, who grew rice.
 
 "I still had an emotional connection to this building and was thinking of renovating it," Mr. Oommen said. "But, even if I had raised it again, the land was unstable and no one in our extended family was willing to return to that remote location."
 
 Mr. Oommen, 75, still travels to India, which inspires his painting, but he does not go to the house. Rather, he goes to an island called   that still has the unspoiled air of the time when he lived in Kerala as a boy amid landscapes devoid of modern roads and shopping malls.
 
  About seven years ago, Mr. Oommen decided he had to sell the house because his children did not want it. But potential buyers were interested only in the land, so they would have dismantled and sold Meda as well-seasoned timber and artifacts for tourists. 
 
 He did not want that to happen. Fortunately, a friend, Pradeep Sachdeva, 59, heard about his predicament and agreed to buy the 2,000-square-foot house and move it piece by piece to his own 3½-acre farm in Sadhrana village, south of Delhi, where he lives.
 
  Mr. Sachdeva, an architect, saw a future for Meda as a guesthouse at his weekend house. He is known in India for his interiors at resorts like the Samode Palace in Rajasthan, and in Delhi for the large urban renewal projects such as the   market and the 20-acre Garden of Five Senses. Mr. Oommen was overjoyed. "I never thought of taking it apart and putting it in another location," he said. NYT news service.
 
