AGRA: Patrolling in congested and jammed-packed city lanes for eight hours a day in bone-chilling cold, five-year-old Tejas and his senior Ajay (10) have been securing parameter to prevent violence, loot, robbery and other crimes along with their handlers in Agra.

 The two, who are part of the  , can often be spotted in the sensitive areas of Baluganj, Mantola and Rakabganj where they are greeted with smile and love from the locals.
 
 Speaking to TOI, constable Vinod Kumar who had spent nearly a decade with Ajay said, “No matter how extreme the weather is, our horses are always ready to serve along with the men in khakis. Their mere presence in sensitive areas helps cops to control the volatile mob as these animals are agile and their prodigious size create a sense of fear among lawbreakers.”
 
 There are total 21 horses deputed in  , who apart from patrolling streets, helps cops control crowd in fair, during violence, and chase miscreants. These horses also participate in various national/state-level contests.
 
 Constable Ajay Singh Yadav, who had been taking care of Tejas since his induction in police force said, “We have to take intense care of these animals, especially during winters. They need to be feed proper diet and their barns are always kept in controlled temperature.”
 
 “At a time when most of us want to be in blanket, these horses do not hesitate to do what they are trained for: ‘serving people’,” he added.
 
 Similarly, a team of four Labrador dogs (Muffin & Rango at Agra cantt station, Tom and Don at Mathura junction) inducted in   (IPF) branch of Railway Protection Force (RPF) Agra division, have been providing safety to passengers even at four degree celsius temperature.
 
 They work close to five hours in day and night shifts, and sniff bombs, track thieves in trains and over 15 railway stations of division.
 
 According to sub inspector Om Prakash Sharma, “These dogs take 15 minute break after an hour of duty. They are best in their jobs round the clock and 365 days in all-weather condition.”
 
 “Like human they too feel cold in winters, but they are trained and taken care in such manner, that they rarely get sick,” he added.
 
