MORADABAD: BJP city president Shivendra Gupta allegedly assaulted police sub inspector Amit   inside the Thakurdwara Kotwali police station here with a sharp edged weapon. Police have registered an FIR against Gupta and a dozen other BJP activists under various sections of the IPC. The sub inspector was assaulted after he refused to lodge an FIR without any preliminary inquiry against an unidentified caller who had threatened the BJP leader on his mobile phone. Gupta had also allegedly assaulted the Thakurdwara SDM inside his office earlier.
 
  The alleged incident took place on Wednesday evening, police said. Speaking with TOI, sub inspector Sharma said, “Gupta asked officials to lodge an FIR against an unidentified caller who had threatened him on his mobile phone. He had also produced a written complaint in the alleged matter to senior sub inspector (SSI) Ajay Veer. SSI Veer asked me to carry out a preliminary investigation before filing an FIR.”
  
  Station house officer (SHO) of Thakurdwara Kotwali   said, “BJP president Gupta started mounting pressure on sub inspector Sharma to lodge an FIR without any prior probe. When Sharma resisted, the BJP leader called some other party members to the police station and started beating him with sharp wedged weapons. Sharma sustained deep wounds in his left hand during the assault.”
  
  The injured sub inspector was rushed to the hospital. Thakurdwara Kotwali officials later registered an FIR against Gupta and his aides under section 34 (common intention), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 323 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons) and several other sections of the IPC, including section 7 of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act.
  
  Refuting the allegations made by sub inspector Sharma, Gupta said, “The accusations levelled against me and other party members are baseless. Sharma is trying to implicate me in a false case.”
  
  Following the incident, BJP members staged a protest against police officials in front of the Thakurdwara Kotwali police station.
  
  SHO Vinay Kumar said, “Gupta had also tried to assault sub-divisional magistrate   a week ago at the administrative office. He fled from the office after officials intervened.”
  
  Police officials are now verifying earlier cases and records of BJP leader Gupta. A report is likely to be sent to higher authorities.
