CHENNAI: The state's unprecedented move to revise   (VAT) on fuel on Sunday led to lorry owners' associations threatening to go on strike unless the government announces a rollback.

 Leading the line were sand lorry operators in  , who termed the price hike an  . VAT on petrol was revised from 27% to 34%, while on diesel, it was raised from 21.4% to 25%, an increase of '3.78 and '1.70 respectively.
 
 “Never before has Tamil Nadu government increased VAT by this margin,“ TN Sand Lorry Owners' Federation president   said.
 
 “The chief minister should immediately roll back the price rise,“ Yuvaraj said, adding that the South Zone Motor Transport Congress would convene on March 11 in the city when the Tamil Nadu lorry owners will insist on adopting an indefinite strike motion if the state government does not relent.
 
 The impact of the hike will be felt by the construction industry, Yuvaraj said, as he had no choice but to increase transportation cost on sand.
 
 “There are no sand quarries available within 200-300 km distance of the city. The impact will be passed on to the customer,“ he added. Former president of the Chennai Goods Transport Authority, K K Sasidharan said the price rise was wrong and that freight movers would be affected as they cannot re-negotiate their contracts.
 
 “Almost 40% cost of operations is dependent on fuel prices. Contracted clients will only agree to revise payment for a hike of `3litre or more was on the actual fuel price. As much as 60% of freight is in the non-contracted sector, meaning the price rise burden will be passed on the individual customer,“ Sasidharan said.
 
 The price rise will also impact water supply by private tankers in the city who said that they will revise rates accordingly .
 
 N Nijalingam, president of South Chennai Private Water Tanker Lorry Owners Association, said diesel consumption will increase as a result of water scarcity situation in the state.
 
 “The farther my lorries travel, the more diesel theyconsume. A higher diesel price means a higher water price,“ Nijalingam said.
 
