AMLOH: The BJP MP from UP's Sultanpur seat, Varun Gandhi, has not been able to campaign for his party in the central Indian state's assembly elections because he has been "busy" with a youth-contact programme. 

 Varun, who has been in the news in recent past because of his absence from the saffron party's   campaign, was in Amloh, Fatehgarh Sahib, on Tuesday to interact with students of a private institute as part of the programme, 'Rashtriya Nav Nirman Ke Liye Nayi Soch' (New Thoughts for Rebuilding the Nation). Talking to journalists after the event, Varun toed the line adopted by most of his party colleagues on the Gurmehar Kaur issue, saying that that there should always be "a fine balance between freedom of speech and national sovereignty".
 
 He remained mum on not participating in the UP poll campaign. His mother, Union minister  , has reportedly said Varun has been "too busy" to campaign for his party in India's most populous state, where electioneering ended on Monday evening. "Let's not discuss the UP elections in Punjab; it is a different issue," Varun said with a smile on his face, when asked about his absence from canvassing in UP. "I have come here to interact with students and academics, so that debates on national issues do not remain confided to Parliament. Regular people should also discuss water shortage, pollution and labour problems with a focus on resolving these," he said.
 
 On the issue of Gurmehar and freedom of speech, Varun said balance was a "must" for individuals and those following any particular ideology. "Ideological positions should be used with logic," he said.
 
 Varun, who had recently moved a private bill to recall MPs and MLAs if voters are not satisfied with their performance, said accountability and transparency should be put at the forefront for "further deepening of the democracy". The 36-year-old parliamentarian maintained that the richness of debates that used to take place in Lok Sabha during the times of Jawahar Lal Nehru,   and other senior leaders of those times, was now missing and there was an urgent need for MPs to revive the level of debates.
 
