GURGAON: Bar and restaurant owners in popular hangouts like   and Sector 29 are pinning their hopes on ‘motorable distance’ rescuing their businesses after the   ruled bars and hotels could not serve liquor to guests if they were within 500 metres of a state or national highway.

 Discussions in trade circles on Friday night revolved around the methodology of measurement to be used by the excise department from Saturday. If a straight line is drawn, as the crow flies, industry sources conceded it would mean the end of at least 100 bars in the city, including those in Cyber Hub.
 
 But if the ‘motorable distance’ — the actual distance travelled by a car from the highway to reach a certain spot — is taken into account,  , and some elsewhere, can hope for a reprieve.
 
 “Some weeks back, an official from the Gurgaon excise department conducted a measurement exercise at Cyber Hub and the access to the first restaurant with a liquor licence was 513 metres from the highway, which is beyond the prescribed buffer distance,” said Rahul Singh, owner of The Beer Club. Singh also heads the Haryana chapter of National Restaurants Association of India.
 
 The excise department maintains it will make official figures on the number of bars that will be served closure notices only after it takes measurements on Saturday.
 
 The co-owner of a city pub said there was hope that bars and hotels would be exempted. “We were hoping that the order will be applicable only to liquor vends but the order confirms it is meant for bars, restaurants and pubs as well,” he said. “As far as Sector 29 is concerned, we are expecting half the outlets to be affected, which will be a big setback to the sector and business,” he added.
 
 According to distributors, business is likely to take a hit by more than 50% if licence cancellations of multiple outlets at Cyber Hub, Sector 29 and Sohna Road are taken into account.
 
 Neeraj Sachdev, CEO, Lakeforest Wines, said, “We are one of the biggest distributors in town and the impact on the business will be beyond estimates. Another issue is that there is no direction on what should be done with the stock available with the affected outlets.”
 
 
