NAGPUR: The city witnessed two murders within 12 hours, including the alleged ‘supari’ or contract killing of dreaded goon Ravindra Gawande, alias Balya, who was stabbed around 68 times at Kalamna. In the other case, a middle-aged man was brutally killed over an old trivial issue in Sadar.

 DCP (crime)   told TOI that two suspects were rounded up in the Balya murder case, including   alias Saoji, and his accomplice Shubham Danode alias Jhinga. The cops suspect more persons were involved in the murder because of the number of injuries on the body.
 
 Kumbhare, who has past murder charges against him, had invited Gawande, who too had two murders charges, along with his wife, and Gawande’s neighbour Prashant Pande for dinner at his place in Tukaram Nagar, Kalamna, on Sunday. Jhinga too was present at the party. It’s learnt that Kumbhare, Balya and Pande went upstairs to consume liquor while Balya’s wife remained with Kumbhare’s wife downstairs. After some time, Pande left the place for some reason.
 
 While consuming liquor, Balya reportedly asked Kumbhare to kill his wife and also offered him a substantial amount for it. However, Kumbhare was reluctant to do it. He came downstairs and asked his wife to drop Balya’s wife back at her house in Mahal.
 
 Later, Kumbhare attacked Balya with a sharp-edged weapon. Balya fled from the spot to save himself, but Kumbhare and Jhinga grabbed him and stabbed him indiscriminately around 68 times, a few meters away from Kumbhare’s residence, behind Shiv Shakti Bar. A profusely bleeding Balya succumbed on the spot. Kumbhare fled to Koradi and returned only on Monday morning, said sources. Kumbhare and his accomplice have been rounded up for questioning.
 
 The police are also probing whether Balya’s wife had given Kumbhare, who considered her a sister, the contract of killing Balya.
 
 Kumbhare had allegedly inflicted over 150 stab wounds on Bharat Mohadikar, who was a dreaded goon of   camp, in October 2010. Balya had insulted Ambekar at his place in Itwari during Ganpati Puja last year. The cops are trying to find out if Balya’s murder is linked to that tiff.
 
 In another case, 46-year-old Durgesh Kaparati, alias Munna, was stabbed in the chest and hand by 26-year-old Dinesh Bhimte, opposite PWD office in Sadar. Sources from the cops said Bhimte had stolen metal knob of gas cylinder from Munna’s scrap shop a few days back. Bhimte, a resident of Motibaug, attacked Munna while he was having tea at a roadside stall. Munna died on the spot while Bhimte fled. Sadar police have registered offence of murder against Bhimte, a scrap collector, who is absconding. 
 
