JUNAGADH: The   government, calling for doubling farmers’ income by 2022, needs to take the recommendations of a recent study by   (JAU) into consideration. The first-of-its-kind study has recommended 5% annual increase in funds for agricultural research to achieve additional 1% growth in Total Factor Productivity (TFP) in agriculture sector.

  at JAU, Junagadh, conducted the study ‘Total Factor Productivity (TFP) of major crops and contribution of research investment to agricultural growth in Gujarat’. Scientists involved in the study say that this was the first ever comprehensive study undertaken in Gujarat. 
 
 Based on the study, scientists recommended that to attain targeted agricultural growth, investment in agricultural research and extension education needs to be increased at the rate of 5% per annum.
 
 The study conducted by R L Shiyani, M G Dhandhliya and V D Tarpara, while Haresh Chavda analyzed the TFP growth of major crops of Gujarat between 1990-91 and 2011-12, and the factors affecting it.
 
 “In the past, major sources of growth in agricultural production were area and yield. However, the future growth has to be essentially driven by increase in yields. There is a compelling need for sustained efforts to increase production of essential items like cereals, pulses and edible oils among others. Faced with limits to further expansion of cultivated land and slowing returns to further input intensification, productivity growth assumes a central role in meeting the challenges of the future,” scientists said.
 
 “Major crops of Gujarat have experienced a strong technological growth in the last two decades, except bajra and sesame. The internal rate of return to public investment in agricultural research ranged from 27% in case of mustard to about 75% for cumin with the overall average of 42% for major crops of Gujarat. Proper management of agronomical practices to keep production cost low and proper price incentive to keep pace with other crops in the state, are equally important,” the study stated.
 
 In fact, the study revealed that cumin has given highest internal rate of returns (in last two decades) with 74.9% annually. In value of marginal product term, the farmer has received Rs 22.37 against expenditure of extra Re 1 in input cost in castor.
 
 The study has analyzed the role of public sector investment in agricultural research to increase output growth and estimates the contribution of agricultural research to Gujarat's economy and attainment of food self-sufficiency. Researchers selected groundnut, cotton, castor, sesame, mustard, bajra, paddy, wheat, gram, tur (pigeon pea) and cumin for the study.
 
