KOLKATA: After   arrested a systems engineer of a reputed   in Sector-V for threatening and blackmailing a Boston-based post graduate student, the news has become a topic of discussion for the IT industry.

 While many have hailed the bravery of the girl, there are some who have been curious to know the version of the accused who had known the complainant for the past few months when they started their training programme in the IT major’s Gandhinagar branch. Their relationship broke when the girl left for US to pursue higher studies and the accused was sent to join the firm’s Salt Lake office.
 
 Said Ayananshu Banerjee, senior director of TCG, “Virtual space is quite dangerous when it comes to jilted lovers across all sectors of work. People in my office have appreciated the guts of the lady. The fact that she has pursued the case all the way from Boston is laudable. More and more women should speak out if they get harassed this way. Otherwise, opportunists will take advantage of silence.”
 
 According to IT professional Panchali Kar, “The girl has shown great bravery by not getting afraid and calling out the culprit. A lot of people might blame her for posing nude. However, that’s absolutely stupid. While in a relationship with a guy, she had sent nude pictures. That’s absolutely natural.”
 
 She finds the conduct of the accused completely “unacceptable”. “Breach of trust and privacy is unacceptable. There’s no point in shaming the girl instead of pointing at who the real offender is. This is 21st century and we should stop moral policing on women and highlight the real issue,” Kar said.
 
 Another IT professional Shaoli Mukherjee said that she and her colleagues have discussed sexual harassment issues in office ever since this news broke out. “Sexual harassment or defaming someone by displaying his/her nude photos clicked during private moments is cowardice. It arises out of personal grudge, jealousy and is often used as a way of undercutting a friend’s success by humiliating him/her,” Mukherjee said. She salutes the bravery of the girl who, she said, had “come out of her fears and embarrassment”. “This speaks volumes about the changing face of a cross section of young women. Probably more women will complain if anti-harassment laws are made more stringent or awareness about such crimes increases,” she added.
 
 Another IT professional Nandini Roy Choudhury said it is “extremely discouraging” to see that the young generation not valuing love the way they should. “It doesn’t take them much time to defame the ones they once admired. It speaks volumes about their faulty value system that teaches them to love and respect none other than their own selves,” Roy Choudhury said.
 
 She also insisted that such a conduct only shows that the person has “no respect” for his education or profession. “They don't know how to put to use the education, intellect, or finesse they have learnt over the years, in their everyday life,” she said.
 
