VISAKHAPATNAM: The   is likely to have Andhra Pradesh’s first   (MDF)   soon.

 The state government has already given permission to Gujarat-based Rushil Décor Limited to set up its plant at Atchutapuram SEZ as well as extended certain incentives under its Industrial Development Policy (IDP) 2015-20.
 
 “We have issued an offer letter to Rushil Décor to set up their manufacturing unit on 26 acres of land at the rate of Rs 72 lakh per acre. It is just beginning,” said an AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) official.
 
 Rushil Décor expressed interest to set up its MDF plant in Vizag through an official proposal to the state government on November 15 last year. Later, the government held an empowered committee meeting on January 25 following which the state investment promotion board meeting discussed the viabilities of the proposal.
 
 The firm agreed to set up a plant with a capacity of 600 cubic meters per day in two phases with a total investment of Rs 559 crore. It will give direct employment to 630 people and indirect employment to 5,000 farmers. However, Rushil Décor requested some incentives from the state government to set up the plant as per the IDP policy. The requests include 100 per cent exemption on stamp duty for purchase of land, 13 mw power supply to the factory, external infrastructure support, as well as subsidy on electrical and water charges among all other benefits applicable under the IDP and other central government benefits that may be sanctioned in the future.
 
 After carefully examining the proposal, the state government agreed to provide reimbursement on power consumption at Rs 1 per unit for seven years as the project is located in a backward district as well as 75 per cent external infrastructure cost including approach roads, power and water supply.
 
 The state government has also directed the AP industries director to take necessary action and directed the concerned officials to inform it about the project’s progress from time to time.
 
 
