NAGPUR: “India has the most intense engagement with Shakespeare,” said  , president,   as she presented her paper as part of a daylong national seminar on ‘Contextualizing   in India.’ The seminar was organized by the department of English of Lady Amrutabai Daga (LAD) College, Shankar Nagar.

 Panja elaborated on two schools of thoughts related to Shakespeare — that he was a world poet and secondly, that his works are not timeless, rather a sign of neocolonial hegemony. She highlighted Shakespeare’s adaptations in Bollywood like Haider, Omkara and Maqbool, and how his works continue to excite directors and producers of Indian cinema. 
 
 “Shakespeare came to India through a different route than China and Japan. Colonial Indian curriculum had humanities, including Shakespeare. Outside the western world, Panja classified Indian Shakespearean productions into two types — the productions in English and the adaptation of plays. In its Indian form, the adaptations have taken the forms of kathakali, yakshagana, jatra and its likes, making the source play unrecognizable,” she said. 
 
 Panja’s paper was followed by a panel discussion on ‘Shakespeare and Pedagogy.’ Faculty of Hislop College Supantha Bhattacharyya, professor Pranoti Chuckerbutty of PWS College, principal of   and former principal of   Supriya Chowdhary were panellists for the discussion.
 
 The keynote address at the seminar was delivered by Subir Dhar, a Shakespearean scholar. Indians were exposed to Shakespeare by the British as a means of giving them exposure to English, he said.
 
 “Shakespeare took to popular imagination.   learnt about nationalism through Shakespeare. Indian dramatists learnt about the art of producing plays through the Bard.”
 
  He gave examples of how eminent playwrights and film directors have used Bard’s plays in their creations. 
 
 “Movies and plays were an important way in which people were introduced to Shakespeare so much so that he entered Indian consciousness without an individual’s perception of it. He had an ability to reside and function within parameters of our own culture,” he added. The seminar was inaugurated by Panja, Dhar, former head of the English PG department of Nagpur University Shernavaz Buhariwala and Nair.
 
 Playwright Vikash Khurana’s adaptation of Bard’s Much Ado About Nothing was also staged at the seminar.
 
