PUNE: Daily wager Ketan Sutar has been visiting   every day since Monday instead of going to work and earning his bread. Reason: he wants to secure a better future for his son through proper education, and hopes the   process will start so he can fill up the forms. 

 However, thanks to the election duty assigned to teachers involved in the admission process at Andhra School, Sutar has returned home dejected every day, only to repeat the routine the next morning.
 
 On the other hand, online admissions to 25% reserved seats under Right to Education Act, 2009, for pre-primary and Class 1, which was supposed to start at 1pm on Thursday, was once again delayed due to the link on the official site not functioning. It finally began at 4pm.
 
 Teachers assigned to man the admission help centres are a sorry lot as along with the RTE admission process, they are also supposed to teach at their respective schools and participate in election duty allotted to them, the training for which is going on. 
 
 The phone numbers of teachers that the education board has listed as helpline numbers to parents is also faulty. Many of the teachers TOI spoke to were a part of the RTE process in previous years or, in one case, had retired. While the admissions were supposed to start from February 5, the process got delayed and was rescheduled to Thursday. At many centres, parents poured in but there was either nobody to help them or the link wasn’t working.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, both toll-free helpline numbers were unavailable. “The toll-free helplines do not work. While filling the online admission form, when the parent chooses the option for schools beyond 3km, only one choice comes up. This is detrimental as there are very few schools offering pre-primary education. Lastly, what if a nearby school has vacant seats after the first round. Since the parents have to compulsorily take up admission in the first allotment, the vacancy will not be utilised despite parents wanting it,” said education activist Mukund Kirdat, who also blamed local bodies for not publicising the RTE admission process enough.
 
 A teacher whose name was part of the help desk list said, “Teachers are given all kinds of work. From election duty to data entry operator, we are the pawns of the government. And then everybody says the quality of government schools is bad. When there is hardly any time to teach, how are we supposed to improve the quality?”
 
 Another teacher whose name was also on the list said, “I retired six months ago. They circulate the same list every year. May be that is why my name has again come up.” 
 
 Under RTE, seats are reserved in entry-level classes to all children belonging to socially, physically or economically backward classes. There are 14 help centres in Pune Municipal Corporation limits, eight in   limits and 13 help centres in Pune   area. Parents can either fill the forms themselves or come to the help centres where their forms will be filled by deputed teachers.
 
 PMC education board officials, however, refuted allegations that the old list of help desk teachers is being circulated again. “We had told block education officers to give the name and contact number of teachers at help desks. If any mistake has happened, it is from their end. They will have to clarify it,” an official said.
 
 Call for de-recognition
 
 Mushtaq Shaikh, education officer, Zilla Parishad, said, “Kaveri International school in Lohegaon has been sent a notice for de-recognition. Despite repeated attempts, they have refused to register for RTE admission process. This goes against the RTE Act. If the school doesn’t budge, we will start the process of de-recognition.” 
 
 Shaikh further said that there may not be any help centres during the civic election day. 
 
 “On the day of the civic election and a day before elections, all teachers will be busy with election duty and hence will not be available at the help desk,” Shaikh said.
 
