Chandigarh: “I feel like, this is a break from a month-long-discussion about my life and that one night. I love being back,” said the 29-year-old DJ  , with a gleeful smile spread across her face while playing for the first time since that fateful night when she was stalked at the city’s F Bar, in Sector 26. 

 Retracing her steps back in the city’s world of lights and music, after a month, Kundu made a loud return, in her fearless style while playing a gig that made her onlookers jump on their toes and heels. “Varnika is known for her deeply energetic vibe while playing. She really enjoys the beats herself and that is how a DJ can translate that energy to everyone,” said Pallavi Sharma, one of her regular listeners. 
 
 Appearing completely nonchalant in her demeanour, Kundu redefined her space like she never left while she stood calling the shots of her music, expressing herself completely. Smiling at every greeting and waving her hands, yet still determined to talk through her music. “We are all here to support her and tell her how proud we are of her and we want to let her know she is such an inspiration to every fiercely independent woman out there,” said Satvika Kundu, who was joined by a bunch of music lovers from the city. I am made for music and no one can stop me from playing it,” she added. 
 
 When asked about how she feels about her life and freedom right now, she said, “It feel like nothing has changed and I am glad for it. I have always been a person who has been a go-getter. If I am craving an Oreo at 2 am, in the morning, I will go and get from Sector 22 and I think I am getting back there.” 
 
 Clarifying her stance on her father's transfer, Kundu said, “We believe that his transfer was a regular procedure, which happened along with 15-20 other IAS officers. And this is not the first time that he has been transferred, so I don’t think that Barala’s bail application being denied has anything to do with my father’s transfer. But even if it has, I would like to say that it doesn’t affect any of us as a family.”
 
 hen asked about her experience pursuing the matter legally, she said, “Before all of this happened, I never knew how any of this works. But, whatever battles I will have to fight, I will fight them and I hope this case closes soon. But in the recent times, the Indian judiciary has restored my faith in them, With the Triple Talaq verdict and the 'Right to Privacy' judgment, they really have empowered the masses." 
 
 Kundu doesn’t feel bothered or shaken at all but still believes that men and women, both need to be raised free of any biases and prejudices. “My parents never raised me like a girl. They just raised me like a person. Hence, my sister and I never knew how to be anything but ourselves and that is exactly how everyone should be raised.”
 
 While playing her favorites being ‘Makiba’ by Jain, ‘Down’ from Marian Hill, Kundu made an unapologetic return to her favorites being Diplo and Major Lazer as well.
 
 
