BENGALURU: When Rohan, 12 was   (CML) with a very high   count, his parents didn't opt for the   and bone marrow transplant which has serious side-effects. Instead, his doctor used a targeted drug which dramatically improved his condition.

 By popping just one tablet a day, he was able to tackle the disease quite well -after six months, no cancer cells were detected and it all happened without any hospital stay and wearying side-effects. Ditto with 2-year-old Aliya, who was found to have a high-risk type of   (ALL). When she started chemotherapy, the leukemia was under control. However, it recurred when she stopped the treatment. She didn't respond to second chemotherapy and the minimal residual disease was still high. She suffered significant side-effects till she was started on   with a specific antibody. This antibody engaged with leukemia cells and stimulated the host lymphocytes, killing the leukemia cells. After one course of immunotherapy, the leukemia had been eradicated and she suffered no side-effects.
 
 As stakeholders observed World Cancer Day on Saturday, oncologists say cancer treatment is changing -from blanket chemotherapy to tar geted therapy and immunotherapy. While targeted therapy involves small molecules or antibodies that target a pathway of cancer generation and control its growth, immu notherapy involves stimulating the immune system to target cancer cells.
 
 “Understanding how to treat cancer has evolved. Once, cancer was killed by the brute force of chemotherapy but now identification of markers on the surface of cancer cells has led to targeted therapy,“ said Dr Vineet Gupta, senior consultant and head (medical oncology and haematology), Institute of Oncology, Sakra World Hospital.
 
 Doctors say the demand for these therapies has been increasing over the past few years as there's more awareness about data demonstrating the efficacy of these treatments. “There should be every attempt to look at the genetic profile of cancers and then decide if targeted therapy or immunotherapy is available.This can lead to better cure rates. The side-effects can be minimized and the quality of patients' lives can be improved,“ said Dr Sunil Bhat, senior consultant and head of paediatric haematology, oncology and bone marrow transplant, Mazumdar-Shaw Cancer Centre, Narayana Health City .
 
 The paradigm shift in cancer treatment happend over the past five years, said doctors, adding it's from maximum tolerant treatment to minimum effective treatment.“Earlier, cancer treatment was considered to be massive and morbid and it was tough on a patient's body. Now, it's minimally invasive and most effective with an emphasis on preservation of organs and,“ said Dr Somashekhar S P, chairman and head, Manipal Comprehensive Cancer Centre.
 
