MUMBAI: Learning a lesson from the 2008 national   scheme for farmers,   has decided to be vigilant while implementing its own scheme touted to benefit about 89 lakh farmers across the state.

 The state's cooperative and finance departments are studying the 2008 scheme and the objections raised by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG). On the scheme's implementation, CAG found that in many cases, eligible farmers were turned down by lending institutions, whereas many who were ineligible benefited. CAG found that reimbursements amounting to Rs 164 crore were extended to micro-finance institutions in violation of guide lines. CAG also found evidence of tampering, overwriting and alteration of records, and poor or inadequate documentation of benefits.
 
 CAG found: Out of 9,334 accounts checked in the audit, 1,257, or 13.46%, were found eligible but not considered by lending institutions, and thus denied the scheme's benefits; of 80,299 accounts granted loan waivers, the beneficiaries in 8.5% of the cases were ineligible; in 2,824 cases, with claims amounting to Rs 8.64 crore, there was prima facie evidence of tampering, overwriting and alteration of records; in 4,826 accounts, farmers were not extended benefits according to entitlements; in 3,262 cases, undue benefit totalling Rs 13.35 crore was extended; in 1,564 cases, farmers were deprived of rightful benefits of Rs 1.91crore.
 
 CAG also found that in vi olation of guidelines, lending institutions claimed amounts related to interest and charges not allowed under the scheme. Also, debt waiver certificates were not issued in many cases to eligible beneficiaries, and the nodal agencies were relying on certificates and data of lending institutions without conducting independent verification of such data.
 
 
 
 
 Chief minister   on Sunday announced greater interest subsidies on farm loans.Currently, farmers are entitled to a loan of only up to Rs 1lakh on 0% interest. Above this, the rate s 2% till Rs 3 lakh. The CM was taking questions from farmers at a programme organized by the directorate general of nformation and public relations.At the same forum, he said farmers who have a turnover of over Rs 10 lakh won't be part of the loan waiver scheme.
 
