NAGPUR: In city to participate in the 10th anniversary celebrations of  , musicians from Kerala feel that Carnatic style of music and dance retains its original flavour and quality even outside the state as the teachers are always south Indians. “What we see here are the purest forms of dancing as they are taught the traditional way,” says violinist   Pathmakumar.

 Five artistes from Kerala performed as accompanists along with students of the dance academy on Saturday evening at Sai Sabhagruha. “I invite them especially for these events as they are well-versed with the Carnatic style of dancing and it helps me to retain the traditional flavours,” said Kalamandalam Sandhya Manoj who runs the academy and also performed. It is the stress on purity which makes these artistes from Kalamandalam, the renowned university for performing arts so unique. Sticking to their purist standards, Pathamkumar says that violin is such a fine instrument that it can pick up the toughest and simplest nuance of vocal singing. “It is a very versatile instrument and does not need any improvisation,” he says.
 
 Also a part of the troupe from Kerala are percussionist duo Sudheer Kadalundi and his son Rohit Sudheer. Kadalundi holds a Guinness record for tabla marathon in 2005 when he played non-stop for 56 hours and then again broke his record in 2008 by playing for 103 hours. His son Rohit has recently improvised upon the pakhwaj to create ‘Pathang’ which is tabla on the right side and mridang on left. “This works best for fusion performances and we will not use it for classical dance or music,” he says about his invention which will be formerly launched next month. 
 
 “Every instrument has been improvised. The keyboard has keytar, sitar has zetaar so I have worked on the pakhwaj to make ‘Pathang’ which literally means to fly,” Rohit says. He is here as the dance academy will have as fusion performance also besides those of Mohiniattam, Bharatanatyam and Kuchipudi.
 
 Terming improvisations as good, mridangam artiste Sureshbabu Mannarkad, who has been playing for 25 years, said, “I would not tamper with my instrument as we have to preserve the original and classical form so that improvisations can happen.”
 
 
