BENGALURU: Citizen power triumphed when four trees were spared the axe and instead translocated to new places in an exercise spread over three days.   (SRWA) engaged with the government to   From researching on how to translocate them to finding experts to coordinating with  , the  , the residents' association undertook the task and also mopped up Rs 3 lakh from people to fund the project.

 Three of the trees found a new home at the Inventure Academy and one at the Sompura lakebed in Sarjapur.
 
 The project to translocate the trees was carried out between May 12 and 14, under the supervision of tree doctor Vijay Nishant, an exper t from   in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE).
 
 UPROOTED AND REROOTED HERE'S HOW THE TREES TRAVELLED TO THEIR NEW HOMES
 
 DAY 1 Residents approached Bescom to remove electric wires and shift poles around the trees to avoid damage to power connections. Tree branches were pruned and medicines applied to prevent infection. Simultaneously, soil was removed from the trees' base to prepare a root ball. Root enzymes and fungicides were applied to the roots and the injured ones, after which they were wrapped in gunny bags and tied with cycle tubes.
 
 DAY 2 Two cranes (of 15 and 30 tonnes lifting capacity), two earthmovers, and one trailor truck were deployed to transport the trees. While cranes were used to tilt them from their roots, earthmovers were used to lift and position them on the trailor. It took two hours to complete this process for each tree At the same time, pits were dug up at the new destinations. River sand from Hoskote was brought and dumped into the pits, along with medicines to ready the soil Traffic was blocked on Sarjapur Road from 10pm to 4am to transport the trees. Two trees were transported on the night of May 13 and two others on the night of May 14
 
 DAY 3 Trees were replanted into pits with the help of cranes. Medicines were applied to the trunks, some parts of which were injured during lifting and positioning.Tree doctor Vijay Nishant, an expert from ATREE, said watering will be done normally and root formulations administered after a week. These are nutritional supplements for the trees.“After a month, they are expected to show new life,“ he added.
 
 
