SURAT: The strike by employees of  , which is synonymous with 108 emergency service, entered its second day here on Friday, disrupting ambulance services and thereby causing immense difficulties to patients in the city.

  The trigger for the strike lay in management’s decision to ask two staffers to quit, who subsequently attempted suicide in despondency. GVK EMRI emergency 108 has 37 ambulances and 170 employees in Surat city and district. It receives 400 emergency calls daily in the city alone, but is only able to attend to 200 calls mostly for   (NCH) and SMIMER since Thursday. At least 125 employees are sitting on a dharna on New Civil Hospital (NCH) campus in protest against the sacking of two employees and to demand better working conditions since the past two days. 
 
 People are unable to take patients urgently to hospitals with accident victims being worst hit because of the strike. Many had to be brought to SMIMER and NCH in private vehicles and autorickshaws. Anju Bhagvankar of Vesu had called up 108 EMRI as some neighbours had suffered injuries in an altercation. However, she didn’t succeed in getting an ambulance and had to take them to NCH in an autorickshaw. Many such cases were reported from Rander and Adajan too.
 
 Iqbal Kadiwala, president, Trained   Association of India, NCH, said, “The daily flow of patients to the hospital has been affected because of the strike. People have been forced to bring patients to the hospital in autorickshaws, cars and private ambulances. Many patients have stopped calling us because of non-availability of ambulances.”
 
 Shailesh Jat, who is designated as a pilot, said, “Our colleagues Mahesh Chauhan and Rajesh   were called to Ahmedabad by the management on a false pretext of transfer to their hometown and then fired from the job. They were given no reason in writing.” At present, an ambulance driver is paid Rs10,000, a pilot Rs10,500 and an emergency medical technician Rs11,500 per month. Our salary should also be raised, he said. 
 
 Jashwant Prajapati, chief executive officer, GVK EMRI, said, “It is an attempt by them to pressurize the management by disrupting public services. We pay all government benefits to them.” The two sacked employees were on probation and yet participated in the strike on April 13 and hence it was decided to release them, he said. 
 
 Chauhan and Gamit, who consumed poison after they were sacked, are under treatment at New Civil Hospital here. 
 
