NEW DELHI:   is pleased with her performance at the   Super Series where she became the women's singles champion beating Olympic gold medallist   in straight games on Sunday.
 
 "It was a good match overall. It was a tough contest. From the first point we were fighting hard. There were rallies, no easy points. I am happy with my performance," Sindhu, who won the TOISA player of the year and badminton player of the year awards, said at the post-match press conference. 
  
 
 
 
 Terming the India Open as one of the important tournaments, Sindhu didn't forget to thank the Indonesian coaches who have been recently appointed to assist national coach  . 
  
 "It (India Open) is one of the important tournaments and my second (Super Series) title after China Open. It's been almost two months since I have been training under the Indonesian coaches. Would like to thank them," she said. 
  
 Marin hasn't won a tournament post her historic gold medal at the   last year and she has been battling an injury that has forced her to skip some events and pull out of the final of one (German Grand Prix). But she is not perturbed by the barren run, saying her goal last season was to win at the Olympics and that she has got more confidence with the way she has performed in the past one week. 
  
 "My best performance was in the Olympics. Winning gold was my goal for the year (2016). I got some injury after that, had to leave some tournaments. But it's getting better. Playing India Open has given me the confidence and motivation to fight hard and to keep going in the next tournament," she said.
  
 Sindhu, who shares a good relationship off-court with Marin, agreed. "We played our best matches at the Olympics. We both have had injuries. Winning and losing are part of life. You need to come back and work harder. It's impossible to give your hundred percent always," she said. 
  
 When questioned if she was affected by the delaying tactics of Sindhu, Marin said, "It's the umpire's call. Like in Yemen Open, I got two red cards despite not delaying the game. It happens. These kinds of things can happen."
 
