PUNE: Residents annoyed by the unbearable heat in the city received a slight relief on Sunday as Pune witnessed its first thundershowers of the season. 

 Some areas in eastern and western Pune received rain in the late afternoon on Sunday. Till 8.30pm, the city had recorded 0.2mm pre-monsoon rainfall. 
 
 The India Meteorological department (IMD)'s forecast for the next few days shows a possibility of showers in the city and nearby areas. 
 
 "The hot weather and humidity has led to convictive conditions in Pune. It has caused these showers. The chances of such thundershowers are there during the next couple of days. The city will continue to witness cloudy conditions. The rainfall is expected mostly during late afternoons and evenings," an IMD official said.
 
 Following the rainfall, the temperature reduced by around 2 degrees. The city's maximum temperature went from 39.7 C on Saturday to 37.8 C on Sunday. Saturday's temperature was 2 degrees more than the normal. 
 
 However, though the temperature dipped slightly, many   said they continued to feel as hot as they did on Friday, when the day temperature had peaked to a scorching 41.7 C. 
 
 IMD officials said that a cyclonic circulation to north interior   across interior Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Marathwada also helped in causing the pro-rainfall condition.
 
 As per IMD data, other areas like Nashik and   also received rain on Sunday.
 
 Heavy rain coupled with thunderstorm lashed   town in Nashik district on Sunday as the maximum temperature registered a drop of 1.9 degrees from Saturday.
 
 IMD has forecast more rain for Nashik district from next Thursday. The day temperature in the district dropped from 39.3 C on Saturday to 37.4 C on Sunday. 
 
 The night time temperature, however, went up by about a degree from 22.6 C to 23.4 C. 
 
 "The temperature in Nashik is expected to remain around 39 C, but the situation is likely to be different from Thursday as there is a possibility of rains and thunderstorms accompanied by lightning," an IMD official said. 
 
