NAGPUR: With   announcing it will lift all bars on withdrawals from March 13, bankers say there may be a   unless the supply of currency is stepped up too.

 The limits on   from a savings account will be hiked to Rs 50,000 a week from February 20, before it is done away with entirely from March 13.
 
 The supply of cash from RBI to commercial banks has come down in the last 10 days. This has left bankers apprehensive that unless the remittance is hiked, it would not be possible to meet the demand. 
 
 It is not possible to lift the limits at present. This is the reason the RBI needs a gap of more than 30 days from now, said a source in a   having mid-level market share in the region. The supply here has come down as the notes have been diverted to states having elections, said an officer heading a regional office.
 
 However, there has been no tangible impact on customers. There have been no instances of ATMs running dry even in the rural areas, the source said.
 
 Even as the situation had normalized to a great extent from January onwards, lately RBI has been tight-fisted in remitting cash, said a regional manager of another government bank. “Our bank got supply of Rs 10 crore a couple of days ago as against a demand of Rs 30 crore,” said the source. RBI is expected to increase the supply from this week onwards, added an officer in yet another government bank.
 
 Meanwhile, RBI sources said that the supply has been constant and banks will be able to get funds as and when required once the limits are lifted.
 
 Apart from a cash crunch, bankers are also worried that lifting of the curbs may lead to large-scale erosion of deposits. The banks were flush with deposits soon after demonetization.
 
 However, much of it was due to compulsion. It is expected that once the limits are no longer applicable, large-scale funds withdrawals may be seen from the banks. This is a major challenge for the industry, say bankers.
 
 There was no major impact after curbs on current accounts were lifted. This is because majority current accounts, which are maintained by businesses, are also linked to cash credit limits and the dues were directly adjusted, However, funds are expected to flow out of savings accounts once the limits are lifted.
 
