INDORE: The last time this city - which boasts a long, storied connection with Indian cricket - hosted a   was back in the 1953-54 season, when the local team, then known as Holkar, featured in it. The last time Gujarat made it so far in the competition was even earlier, in 1950-51.

 Much has changed in Indian cricket since then, except for the dominance of Mumbai in the Ranji Trophy. As they walk into the final of the premier domestic championship for the 46th time, few would bet against them not taking home title number 42.
 
 This time, though, the defending champions haven't been half as good as they were last season, but have still managed to make their way to the final.
 Their top run-scorer this Ranji season has been Shreyas Iyer, who, with 629 runs in nine games @ 41.93, stands at No. 32 in the list of run getters. Compared to what he did last season - 1321 runs in 11 matches @ 73.38 at a strike rate of 92.70 - Iyer has been a pale shadow of himself.
 
 The most successful bowler for Mumbai has been young left-arm spinner Vijay Gohil, who, with 27 wickets in six matches @25.92, places way below at No.37 on the top wicket-takers' chart. This has been a far from perfect season for Mumbai. It may yet end in perfect fashion.
 
 Gujarat, on the other hand, will rue the fact that they won't have the services of pacer Jasprit Bumrah (on India duty), and left-arm spinner Axar Patel (injured). They'll hope to bank on the experience of former India left-arm seamer RP Singh, and the youthful exuberance of all-rounder Rush Kalaria. Gujarat's real muscle, though, lies in their batting. With 1270 runs @ 97.69, including five hundreds, opener   is set to finish as the top run-getter of the season.
 
 Mumbai have already suffered at his hands once in the season, when the 26-year-old cracked 232 to help Gujarat take the first-innings at Hubbali.
 
 In a season where they've mostly under-performed, Mumbai have consistently been 'rescued' by a man who has performed beyond expectations - Abhishek Nayar. Nayar scored 462 runs in nine games, besides taking 21 wickets @ 26.66. His contribution in the final will be vital.
 
 Fans here are hoping that unlike Saurashtra, who were rolled over inside three days, Gujarat will give Mumbai a much tougher fight in the final.
 
