RANCHI:   across the state will soon change their   from Hindi to English. To help students be at par with their private school counterparts, the state's   has signed a   (MoU) with the   to upgrade government school teachers' proficiency in English. 

 A government official said the project's objective is to help teachers at government schools switch over to English as a medium of teaching. 
 
 According to the 11th Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2016, which checks the students' competency, only 14.8 percent of the students can read simple English sentences. The state government, therefore, hopes that this initiative will help teachers improve students and their own English language as well. 
 
 One teacher from each government school will be trained in the area, who will in return, train their colleagues and also improve the students' grasp over the language.
 
 "We are trying to improve the image of the government schools where both teachers and students are seen conversing in Hindi. When the teachers start teaching in English, then our students too will be able to pick up the language and read and speak like students of the private schools," Aradhana Patnaik, secretary of school education and literacy department, said.
 
 This three-year project of the department also includes CD players, newspapers and audio-video files as means to train teachers and students and help them to practice speaking and listening skills in English. 
 
 "At present, members of the British Council are carrying out a survey in various districts of the state to gather feedback about teachers' learning and teaching methodology. To prepare tailor-made training modules, the British Council members will have to assess the teachers' learning capacity before they start the training programme," Patnaik added. 
 
 As per the department's plan, teachers will be trained for 21 days to learn the language, "As part of the evaluation process, after five days of the training programme, teachers will be asked to go back to their schools and start conversing with students while British Council members will gather a feedback from students about their teachers performances and whether they require further improvements," Patnaik said. 
 
 This training programme will start on the first week of June in schools at all district headquarters where teachers from government schools will assemble to hone their English-speaking skills. 
 
 
