Ahmedabad: It was a double whammy of spurious homoeopathy medicine and spurious liquor that killed six people in the Surat- Katargam Hooch tragedy, the second such incident in the state in six months. Investigators said Thuja and Bryonia, the two homoeopathy medicines that were mixed with the liquor that caused deaths, normally contains 90% ethanol. But the last consignment of medicines bought by Sheela Rana and her daughter Nimisha was adulterated with methanol, which is toxic for humans.

 Police have arrested a homoeopathy drug dealer, Bharat Shah, in connection with the case along with mother- daughter duo. “During his interrogation, Shah has revealed that one Nandu Dulal Deb used to supply drugs manufactured in Kolkata,” said a senior police official associated with the investigation. Teams of Gujarat police are currently camping in Kolkata trying to track the dealer and the factory in which the two homoeopathy drugs were manufactured or adulterated with methanol. “We are taking help of Kolkata police to track the main dealer,” a senior police official said.
 
 According to investigators, Rana was prescribed a homoeopathy drug, Arnica Mont for her knee ailment some four years ago. “A strong smell of alcohol from the drug prompted Rana to ask Shah, the medicine dealer, about alcoholic content of the medicine. Shah informed her that the drug contains about 90% ethyl alcohol or ethanol,” said a senior police official. Rana then started buying the drug from Shah in large quantities, illegally. “She used mix the drug with a small quantity of IMFL, and then added a bit of ice cream powder to get red- liquor like colour,” said a police official. However, just prior to the tragedy which took place on January 13, 2017, Rana bought Thuja and Bryonia, as the original drug, Arnica, was out of stock. “Thuja and Bryonia also contain a high percentage of ethanol but the stock which Rana purchased was adulterated with methanol. People who had liquor from Rana’s liquor den were affected by poisoning, and six died,” said a top police official. We are soon going to submit a report to the state government for a crackdown on such druggists who sell such drugs in higher quantity than prescribed,” said a top police official.
 
 
