NAGPUR:   were shaken by a   as goons axed a man to death near the Shiv Temple at Chhota Ram Nagar on Wednesday at 10.30 am. Later, angry relatives and neighbours first protested outside the chief minister’s house near Trikoni Park, Dharampeth, before mobbing  , where offence of murder has been registered. The murder once again exposed policing failures, including the newly implemented beat system, since this was a fallout of the murder of Bagga at Marartoli in December.

 Onlookers, who knew 33-year-old deceased Pravin Kuhike alias Khushal, a resident of Ram Nagar at Telangkhedi, said, “Khushal had tea at a roadside stall and headed towards his place on his Bullet. Four goons armed with a sharp axe and other weapons approached him. Kuhike tried to escape but the attackers dragged him down from his motorcycle and sprinkled red chilli powder in his eyes.”
 
 Khushal stood up and tried to run away but dashed into a roadside eatery since he couldn’t see anything, and again collapsed on the road. As he lay writhing, the attackers brutally attacked him and almost chopped his head to pieces on the steps of a daily needs shop, added residents.
 
 Seeing the heinous murder, people started screaming and immediately shut their doors. One of the nearby shop owners, whose shop was ransacked by angry relatives, claimed he was not in the shop when the incident happened.
 
 Khushal’s wife Jayshree told TOI, “Bagga’s father had barged into our residence before Bagga’s funeral and threatened to kill Khushal.” Roshan Baingane, Khushal’s nephew, said, “I was going to work when I saw four goons, with long scarves covering half the face, running down the road with sharp weapons that were dripping blood.” I reached the crime scene and identified Khushal from his bracelet, said Baingane.
 
 Cops have registered an offence against Pawan Sherekar (27), James Singh alias Takli (18), Jayesh Atram alias Paa (20) and Akash Neware (20), all of whom have previous criminal records. Other suspects were identified as Palash Chaudhary alias Palya, Ajay Meshram alias Chidi, Vishal Chachane and Akash Samaliya, on the basis of a complaint by Vikas, Khushal’s younger brother.
 
 It’s learnt that the suspects had allegedly taken a pledge to kill Khushal during Bagga’s last rites. “Though several suspects were under the scanner, the main attackers were Neware, Sherekar and Atram. Others were booked for conspiracy,” said zone II DCP R Kalasagar.
 
 Another theory goes that Khushal was hacked to death since he was providing financial help to the killers of Nilesh alias Bagga ‘Bawa’ to secure their release on bail. In Bagga’s murder, Ambazari police have so far arrested four accused, including mastermind Mukund Khandate and his brother Rahul, Narendra Senger alias Bablya, and Pranay Kawle.
 
 “Bagga, along with other accomplices, had threatened Khushal to stop supporting Mukund, who had taken to performing witchcraft and black magic, something which Bagga was known for,” said one of the Khushal’s close friends. Within a week of this, Bagga was stabbed several times with sharp edged weapons by around 10 attackers over superstitions on December 16, 2016. After Bagga’s murder, Khushal had left the city and gone underground, and returned just a fortnight ago, he added.
 
 DCP Kalasagar and Ambazari police rushed to the spot, a few hundreds metres from the police station. The body was sent to GMCH for post mortem. Angry relatives and neighbours demanded immediate arrest of the attackers while protesting in front of the CM’s house at Dharampeth. Later, they all thronged the police station and started blaming the cops for ignoring serious offences in the locality.
 
