By Arjun Ambarnath
 
  
 
  
  The game is on! Mirror Girls Soccer League (MGSL) returns for its second edition with the promise of more competition and fun.
  
  Last time, MGSL was welcomed with arms wide open and this time it is expected to be bigger and better.
  
  Backed by the Western India Football Association (WIFA), Mumbai District Football Association (MDFA), Mumbai Schools Sports Association (MSSA) and Indian Dietetic Association (IDA), MGSL was launched with an eye on boosting grassroots football for girls.
  
  And WIFA CEO Henry Menezes believes it has become a platform to give them more acknowledgment. “We wanted to make a statement. A statement that even girls can play. And play at a good level. If you look at women’s football today compared to the last decade, the Indian national team has been ranked 54 in the world.
  
  “So, football is definitely on the rise and it is clear that we need to give the youth more exposure. And Mirror Girls Soccer League is a fantastic platform to give them that exposure in a shorter format, where we can also assess their skill sets,” said Menezes.
  
  Like the inaugural edition last year, the four-day rink tournament will be held across two weekends, with the league phase kicking off this weekend (Jan 28 and 29), before the knockouts and grand finale on Feb 4 and 5.
  
  The action on the field will be closely watched by scouts, introduced by the MGSL this year, who will identify potential talent, make a list of the entire talent pool and hand it over to the various district associations.
  
  A host of fun activities have also been lined up for those who turn up at the Cooperage to cheer our football queens. Ranging from Brazilian martial arts (Capoeria) to Zumba classes to a nutrition workshop (conducted by Indian Dietetic Association), there is something for everyone to be kept entertained. Besides, if you are a parent or amateur footballer, you can learn new skills at a football clinic organised by India Rush Soccer Academy.
  
  Around 200 teams will battle it out for the crown, with a new category — Under-12 — being introduced this year along with the Under-14, Under-16 and Open sections.
  
  
  
 
  Indian Dietetics Association (IDA), Mumbai chapter headed by Naaznin Husein 
 
  
  
 
  Combination of martial arts, dance and music. Whats more, it burns fat, builds muscle. By the centre of Capoeira India. 
 
  
  
 
  heady mix of dance and aerobics. When fitness and dance combine, the results are extrodinary. By U & I
 
  
  
 
  If you are a parent or amateur footballer, learn new football skills. By Rush Academy 
 
  
  
 
  Improve focus, balance and flexibility with power Yoga moves. By Aditi Khanduri, Clinical Dietitian & Yoga trainer
