MUMBAI: A special CBI court in New Delhi on Thursday presiding over the 2G Spectrum Case discharged all the accused including   and brother Kalanithi Maran in the Aircel-Maxis Case of 2014 on Thursday. 

 The CBI had filed a chargesheet before the 2G Court in August 2014 against Former Telecom Minister Dayanidhi Maran, his brother Kalanithi Maran, Maxis Communications Bhd, Astro All Asia Networks Limited,   TV Pvt. Ltd. South Asia Entertainment Holdings Limited (“SAEHL”), T.A.   and  . The case emanated from a Complaint registered by the CBI in 2011 and was monitored by the Supreme Court as part of the 2G Scam Cases.
 
 “The entire case is based on the misreading of the official files, contradictory statements of the witnesses as well as speculations and surmises of Sh. C. Sivasankaran. I have no hesitation in recording no prima facie case warranting framing of charge against any of the accused is made out,’’ said the 424 page verdict, discharging all accused.
 
 The 2G Special Court court Judge O P Saini heard extensive arguments on framing of charge between October and November 2016 and passed an order on 02.02.2017 discharging all the accused in the case.
 
 The judgment stated that It may be noted that Sh. Dayanidhi Maran or his wife Priya Dayanidhi had no stake in Sun Direct TV (P) Limited or South Asia FM Limited. “However, in the eyes of law, these grounds themselves are not enough to connect the money received in the company of Kalanithi Maran to Dayanidhi Maran. The three simple and ordinary facts that they are real brothers or that both are shareholders in some companies or that Sh. Dayanidhi may indicate their close association but nothing beyond that. 
 
 These may create a perception or a suspicion that the money received in the company of Sh. Kalanithi Maran was meant for Sh. Dayanidhi Maran, but perception or suspicion are not enough for criminal prosecution. The perception or suspicion is required to be investigated and supported by legally admissible evidence, which is wholly lacking in this case,'' it held.
 
 
 The CBI had alleged that Dayanidhi Maran, the then Minister of Communications and Information Technology in abuse of his official position, deliberately delayed grant of licenses in 7 telecom circles and other approvals and permissions on various issues pending before Department of Telecommunications (“DoT”) related to M/s Aircel Televentures Limited, when it was owned by one C Sivasankaran on frivolous grounds with an intent to force its exit from the telecom business by constricting the business environment. The sale of these companies held by Sivasankaran to Maxis, a Malaysian company was with the intervention of Dayanidhi Maran and his brother Kalanithi Maran. For these favours and as a quid pro quo, an illegal gratification was paid by Astro by acquiring shares (through SAEHL) to Sun Direct at a premium of Rs. 69.57 per share for a total sum of Rs. 549 Crore.
 
 A team of lawyers led by law firm Shardul Amarchand Mangldas (SAM) Partner Pallavi Shroff and Siddharth Luthra appeared on behalf of SAEHL (a subsidiary of Astro) before the 2G Court while Anand Grover appeared for the CBI and Kapil Sibal was counsel for Kalanithi while A M   for Dayanidhi. 
 
