HYDERABAD: Telangana is missing from a map of the Union ministry of human resource development (HRD). This map of India without Telangana has been tweeted by none other than Union HRD minister   himself to promote what is being billed as the world's largest hackathon. Hyderabad is also one of the venues for the finals to be held on April 1 and 2. 
 
  (
 )
 
 Telangana was carved out of united Andhra Pradesh on June 2, 2014 after a prolonged struggle for a separate state. Almost two years and 10 months later, the fact that the India map is being shown without the new state has annoyed many. 
 
 Javadekar, while sharing the India map sans Telangana as a separate state on his twitter, says that 1266 teams and more than 10,000 participants will compete in 26 cities across the country on April 1-2 in the event. Persistent Systems also described itself as the 'proud organizer' of  . There are other private and government agencies too which are sponsors of the event.
 
 Smart India Hackathon 2017 is a 36-hour event of non-stop coding across 26 cities to develop innovative solutions for 598 problems posed by 29 ministries. Prime Minister   will inaugurate the hackathon through video link at 11 pm on April 1.
 
 A promotional poster by the Persistent Systems, the 'proud organisers' of the event said it was being organized in Hyderabad in association with the department of empowerment of persons with disabilities, Hyderabad, for 'delivering solution for redesigning existing infrastructure for differently-abled'. The poster also has sketches of the Charminar, Buddha statue, Birla Mandir, and Hi-Tech City.
 
 The map has outraged many people. A netizen, G T Rao, has brought this blooper to the notice of Nizamabad MP Kalvakuntla Kavitha. "Is this official map published by HRD ministry?" an aghast Kavitha reacted. Several netizens wanted Kavitha to take immediate action. "Akka (elder sister), please act on this," another netizen, Laxmi, said. "This is sheer nonsense," Laxmi said. There were others who wanted the issue be taken up with the Centre as the map is an insult to Telangana.
 
 
