LONDON:   seems to be getting younger this summer here in London. The 35-year-old has been in sublime form, and Prajwal H gave yet another display of almost perfect tennis on Friday to inch closer to his eight  , and 19th Grand Slam title. He outclassed Germany's   7-6 (4), 7-6 (4), 6-4 in 2 hours, 18 minutes.

 Earlier, there couldn't have been a more suitable ending to the first volatile semifinal clash. Guns and bullets for most part. A monstrous forehand down-the-line, the clap of thunder. A winner from the moment it bolted off the strings. Up went  's hands after 2 hours and 56 minutes of action. A shout that matched the scream of the shot and a smile that sparkled like the late-afternoon sun. The 28-year-old, the world No. 6, over came the gentle American   6-7 (6-8), 6-4, 7-6 (7-3), 7-5 to muscle his way edge into the Wimbledon final for the first time. The clash of the tennis towers ­ with both players standing at 6 ft 6' ­ was the   based Cilic's 11th start at the tournament, the most attempts by a player to make the title round. But the Croat's argument carried greater punch.
 
 Cilic, who had a poor start to the season going out in the second round of the Australian Open, rediscovered his form in Istanbul in May, where he clinched his first title of the year.
 
 Thereafter, with Swede Jonas Bjork man in his corner, the Croat has managed a steady climb, so much so that before the start of Wimbledon, Federer had predicted that the youngest of the four men in the last four could go deep in the draw.
 
 'Unbelievable' was how Cilic described his crackling play on the day.
 
 He had 25 aces and 70 winners, taking his tournament count to130 (aces), but it was not just the serves, whatever the weight of the delivery.
 
 Cilic backed his serve with some daring shot making; he had 26 fore hand winners, service returns where he cut Querrey's angles and crunched shots that whistled through the air.
 
 Cricket legend  , who was watching from the royal box, must've wondered why some of those shots only fetched the player a point. At another venue, trading the racket for a bat, a powerfully struck drive could get you four runs. "I'm playing well, more so as the tournament has unfolded. This was a hard-fought battle, especially the first set," Cilic said of the semifinal. Querrey, who came through three successive five-setters to make the semifinals, was all praise for his opponent, who he now hasn't beaten in five meetings.
 
 "He's tough on both sides. I kind of felt like he pushed me around a little bit today," the 29-year-old said. "I had that break in the fourth set. When he broke me back, he played a great game. That kind of deflated me a little bit. He does everything really well. He didn't seem to have many holes (in his game). I played him a handful of times before, lost a bunch. But he did seem to play at a really high level today."
 
 It was not fireworks all the way, however. After weighing what the other brought to the table on the day, the duo opened up, playing freely. Power had great purchase, aided per force by the slickness of the surface. The fiercer of the two men in the middle was always going to have the edge.
 
 That was not to say that the 271 points played on Centre Court in the first of the men's semifinals was won just on firepower. The beast of a matchup also had its moments of beauty.
 
 A Querrey drop shot in the third set that was Federeresque in execution had the connoisseurs gasping and the crowd cheering wildly. The baby-faced Croat, who was earlier mentored by countryman Goran Ivanisevic, responded with a delightful drop of his own to win a breakpoint in the fourth set. Cilic came back from a break down before breaking Querrey in the 12th game to close out the match.
 
 
