BENGALURU: P R Kumar and S R Chitra were among the 23 alumni of   for Deaf (SKID), who were on their toes to make the 50th anniversary of their alma mater a memorable occasion for its students on Sunday. 

 For Kumar and Chitra, it was their way of giving back to their school which had helped them get into institutions like   and  , despite they being hearing impaired.
 
 "It's because of this institute that we have been able to stand on our own and earn for our families. Now we want to do our bit," said Kumar's son Abhiram, translating his father's sign language.
 
  Kumar and Samir Munshi, another alumnus, coordinated the 50th anniversary celebrations, for which they had been working since early 2015. 
 
  The audience at Indiranagar Club auditorium, the venue, were spellbound as performances by hearing- impaired students, videos and presentations unravelled the institute's history. All three former principals of the institute - Margret Joseph, Asha Dey, P J Christopher - were present with incumbent principal, Jessy Samuel, on the occasion. Also present was Aban Unvalla, founder of   and the brain behind SKID, who is also hearing impaired. 
 
 The Deaf Aid Society, formed by Aban in 1960 with her mother, established the first school for hearing-impaired children in Bengaluru. What started with 10 students, has 150 on its rolls today. 
 
 "I am so happy to see all my children grow and settle down," said Asha Dey. Principal Jessy Samuel said: "We were so excited and overwhelmed when these former students approached us. We are the luckiest school to have most of its alumni returning to help their institution."
 
  Samir Munshi, a member of the golden jubilee committee and a web designer, said, "We started with plans to get the required facilities at the institute and sponsors. These facilities included the washing area, furniture, cupboards, smart-learning systems and toilets. Many of us are well- settled now and can afford the expenses, and for the rest, we appealed to others." The day saw tales shared by the alumni about their school, their principals, and how it developed over the years. 
 
 V M Ramadevi, an alumna and SBI officer, wore her Bharatanatyam costume after 30 years to be a part of the occasion. Later, students, former and present, took to the stage to present dance performances and a play titled, A Foolish Manager.
 
  
 
 
  SKID got its first hearing-impaired teacher in 2001 when Srinivas M N, a student from the school's first batch, joined as a faculty member. 
 
 A former operator with HMT watch factory, Srinivas has a masters in history and economics from Mysore University and a BEd from Lucknow University. Currently, he's the president of Tumkur District Association of the Deaf and executive board member for Karnataka   Federation of the Deaf.
 
