NEW DELHI: The Bharatiya Janata Party ( )-led government in Goa smoothly won a crucial 
  today with 22 votes in favour of it in the 40-member Assembly. That gave the BJP-plus combine a majority - it needed 21 - and allowed the Manohar Parrikar-led government to continue.

 Parrikar earlier too 
  , two more than the halfway mark in the 40-member Assembly. A special Assembly session was convened today to hold the floor test.
 
 While the BJP won the support of 22 legislators, Congress legislator Vishwajit Rane abstained and walked out.
 
 The BJP bagged 13 seats in the state polls held last month. When it went to stake claim to form the government on Sunday, it claimed the support of three MLAs each of the Goa Forward Party and the Maharashtravadi Gomantak Party, as well as three independents. That gave the BJP 22 to the Congress party's 17 seats.
 
 The Congress filed a plea on Monday to stay the swearing-in ceremony - scheduled for Tuesday - and order a floor test. It alleged the BJP was "bribing opposition MLAs)" to support it to form the government. 
 
 The top court allowed the swearing in to go ahead and scheduled the floor test for today.
 
 "We have proved before the people of India, we had support...and we proved it on the floor of house. Everyone voluntarily came and voted, none of them were kept in a hotel room or secluded commonplace as was the case of opposition," Parrikar told the media after the floor test. 
 
 "Wild allegations being made, those with coloured glasses make those allegations,"he added, about the Congress party's allegations.
 
 Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi this morning again alleged the "BJP is stealing the (Goa) government".
 
 "In Manipur and Goa, the BJP has used money to steal the government (from the Congress)," Rahul said in Chandigarh according to ANI. He was speaking to the media after the swearing in of Amarinder Singh as Punjab chief minister.
 
 Parrikar, who stepped down as Defence Minister, was 
  of the coastal state for the fourth time on Tuesday evening. Nine other legislators were sworn in as ministers.
 
 After being sworn-in as the chief minister, Parrikar exuded confidence that his government would be stable and run the full five year term.
 
 "Let everyone be very clear that this government will last for its full tenure," he said.
 
 "I agree the mandate is fractured. But if every fraction of the fractured mandate comes together, we will become 22. This is bringing together post-election coalition and the lead has been taken by regional parties, not me," he said.
 
 
 
 
