NAGPUR: Expression is not limited by one’s ability to speak or hear. Artist  , devoid of hearing and talking faculties, spoke loud and clear about issues concerning modern world through paintings. His second solo exhibition ‘Rangnaad’ was inaugurated by noted artists   and   at Raja Ravi Verma Art Gallery, South Central Zone Cultural Centre, on Tuesday evening.

 The 42 works on display are representative of his body of work, from 2012 till now, said Rajendra Pradhan, Chinmay’s father. A major part of his works on display is dedicated to tiger conservation. The image of a tiger ‘king’ in a human posture, looking down in dismay, is depicted with stray coins around it. “Tigers now, even though our national animal, are reduced to the stature of mere human entertainers,” says Rajendra. Other paintings on tigers talk of their guardianship of forests, survival instincts, motherhood, their various roles and how a tiger is treated like an eye-candy for the sake of tiger tourism. “We have been failing in our efforts to protect tigers,” Rajendra adds.
 
 Chinmay has adopted several mediums such as charcoal, oil paintings and acrylic colours for paintings. Paper boats is another series in his work where paper boat is symbolic of innocence, and has been used to depict waves of violence and urbanization. Chinmay's’s mythological painting on Shiva shows him being strangulated by the ‘poison’ of air pollution. He depicts fantasy through ‘Reach for the stars’ series. Abstract paintings are also part of his repertoire which relies on surrealism to express views on modern world issues.
 
 Chinmay, a student of Channe and Ramteke, completed BFA and MFA from Central India School of Fine Arts, Wardha Road. Talking of his student, Channe said, “His paintings are his fantasies. Even though he can’t speak or hear, back in college we never had any problem conveying information to him. His way of expressing his ideas was unique and interesting. His composition is subtle and he engages the viewer by being faithful to his emotion.”
 
 Ramteke said, “Chinmay has studied other works and developed his own style with passion. His journey is still on and I am positive he will achieve further success.”
 
