NEW DELHI: In a major   outreach initiative, the government has started a pan-India exercise to identify   tribal heroes of the Independence movement and build   documenting their lives and sacrifice.
 
  The ministry of tribal affairs has asked all states to carefully study the folklore and initiate research studies to identify heroes of tribal uprisings during the British rule.
  
  "We are consulting the states to identify tribal leaders. There have been many uprisings in remote areas against the British. These unsung heroes would be identified and their lives and sacrifices would be documented," Anoop Kumar Srivastava, secretary (tribal affairs), told ET. The project would be first initiated in the BJP-ruled states of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Jharkhand, he said.
  
  The ministry is aiming to roll out the project in the next financial year. A concept note has been prepared. About Rs. 60 crore have been earmarked in the Budget for memorials. Though the Centre would fund the construction, the states would do all the groundwork including curation work by experts.
  
  The push has come from the Prime Minister’s Office after Modi’s Independence Day speech last year. The PM had underlined the need for acknowledging the contribution of tribals in the Independence movement.
  
  "When we talk about the history of our freedom struggle, a lot is spoken about a few people. In fact, in some cases, it is more than necessary. But in our freedom struggle, the contribution of our tribals living in the forests was incomparable. They lived in jungles. We may have heard about Birsa Munda but there is hardly any tribal district which did not make sacrifices since 1857 till we got freedom… But our coming generations are not fully aware of this history. The government desires and is planning permanent museums in the States where these tribals lived, struggled against the Britishers and refused to be bowed down," Modi said.
  
  "The government will work to make such museums in different states so that the coming generations may know how our tribals were far ahead in making sacrifices," he said. 
