GURUGRAM: It’s been a week since General hospital at   is out of  . The shortage has affected the patients, mostly those from weaker financial background, who are now forced to shell out anything between Rs 500 and Rs 1,500 for X-rays from private radiology centres.

 The hospital authorities had put in a request for X-ray film to the higher-ups a month ago, but they have not yet received the supplies.
 
 On any given day, around 500 patients have their X-rays done at General hospital. This facility is provided free of cost to help patients from weaker sections of the society. But the sudden shortage of the resource has left the patients cringing. The unnecessary expense has shook their monthly budgets.
 
 Sources reveal that the hospital’s radiology department had sent a request to the headquarters of the health department in Panchkula a month ago for the X-ray film. A reminder was sent two weeks later that the film was about to exhaust. It has been a week now that the hospital is without the film. Patients are feeling the pinch of the delay. Many among them from financially poor backgrounds, they have to spend large sums to get the X-rays taken from private clinics.
 
 “I came all the way from   village to get X-ray of my foot taken. I twisted my foot in the morning and have not been able to walk since then. The hospital does not have any arrangements in place,” said Sukhi Ram, a resident of Kasan village. “My husband has been suffering from shoulder pain for the last two weeks. After waiting for a week, the doctor finally asked to get the X-ray of the shoulder taken. But the X-ray machine in the hospital is not working. I had visited the hospital two days ago but the situation remains the same. The hospital authorities don’t seem to have infrastructure in place for the poor,” said Sharda Devi, who had accompanied her husband to General hospital.
 
 Two computerised X-ray machines, which give immediate digital images and reports within a span of two to three minutes, were brought into the hospital 10 months ago. The radiology department has a few X-ray film rolls, but they are compatible with the older machines that take time to deliver images. These are thus being saved for critical cases wherein the patient cannot go outside for an X-ray. “We are taking manual X-rays of patients in emergency cases. The process is taking a little longer with the older machines but we are managing around 80 to 90 patients a day,” said Dr  , principal medical officer, Gurgaon.
 
 
