DEHRADUN: In a major initiative under the cleanliness drive,   is all set to become an   (ODF) state in the month of May. Presently, nine of the 13 districts are ODF and the construction of 36,790 toilets is left in the districts of Tehri, Pauri, Dehradun and Haridwar. 

 The state authorities are confident that the work would be completed in May. In process Uttarakhand would became the fourth state in the country after Sikkim,   and Kerala to be ODF.
 
 To showcase the achievement on a grand scale plans are afoot to invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi on environment day on June 5 at a function in Pauri district to announce Uttarakhand as ODF.
 
 Giving further details director of Swachh Bharat Mission Raghav Langar told TOI, “In 2012, a baseline survey was carried out in Uttarakhand, we found that there were 5.09 lakh families which did not have a toilet in their house.” From 2013-14 to the present day, the state government has got 5.45 lakh toilets constructed across Uttarakhand.
 
 Besides, the construction of 36,790 toilets which comprises 1,173 at Tehri, 4,180 at Pauri, 3,228 at Dehradun and 28,209 at Haridwar, is still to be completed. All the four district magistrates have been informed to complete the pending work by May 31, 2015.
 
 On the difference in the number of households included under the baseline survey and the actual toilets constructed or to be constructed, the IAS said that some names were left out of the list and there were some new houses which were constructed in the last five years. “Therefore, the number of toilets constructed under the project has gone up than the findings of the baseline survey of 2012,” he added.
 
 Langar maintained that besides construction, the district teams will also ensure the tracking and verification of the constructed toilet. “For each household, a budget of Rs 12,000 is allotted for the construction of a toilet,” said the IAS officer.
 
 According to Langar, efforts were on to invite the prime minister on June 5. “However, his visit is yet to be confirmed,” he added.
 
