BADAL: Booth number 118 in a government primary school of Badal village on the Bathinda-Lambi road became cynosure of all eyes on Saturday. Situated at nearly 100m from the residence of Punjab chief minister  , it was thronged by the national media as outside broadcasting vans of various news channels had arrived much before the start of polling at 8am. It is here that the entire Badal clan exercised their right to franchise. 

 The booth has 998 votes, which includes 546 males and 452 females. The booth is the only polling station in the entire state where a chief minister, deputy chief minister, former finance minister and a sitting Union minister exercised the right to franchise. 
 
 Village Badal falls in Lambi assembly constituency, where Badal has locked horns with former chief minister and Punjab Congress president Amarinder Singh and former Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh, who is contesting on an Aam Aadmi Party ticket. The entire state’s attention is focussed on this assembly constituency.
 
 The first from the clan to come for voting was former Punjab finance minister and Congress candidate from Bathinda Urban assembly constituency Manpreet Badal. He was followed by his 21-year-old son Arjun, who is pursuing graduation course in political science and history from New York University in the US. Manpreet’s father Gurdas Singh Badal, who is brother of CM Badal, turned up after his grandson had left for Bathinda after polling the vote. 
 
 The chief minister’s family, which usually reaches at the polling booth at 9am, reached at 10.40am this time. Badal, his son and deputy chief minister Sukhbir, daughter-in-law and Union minister Harsimrat too cast their votes at the same booth. After the chief minister’s immediate family, many other relatives, including Major Bhupinder Singh and first-time voter Aviva Badal also cast their votes here. 
 
 In between Amarinder’ son Raninder Singh reached the polling booth and spent more than half an hour at the booth. He collected the details of the voting pattern.
 
 Meanwhile, the chief minister said, “I have been exercising my right to franchise at my village for nearly six decades and love to poll vote here. The entire area is like my family and it is the village, which is now synonymous with my name.”
 
