KOCHI: Decriminalization of attempted suicides occurred very late in countries with English common law as their base but with many religions and societies permitting suicides even for religious reasons, India could have been at the forefront of such a change among   nations if it had wished so.

 The view that suicide is a sin began to change in the 18th century, during the age of enlightenment. In 1751, Germany decriminalized suicide attempts and most countries in Europe and North America joined in following the French Revolution in late 18th century. It was only in 1983 that the Roman Catholic Church reversed the canon law that prohibited burial in church cemeteries of those who committed suicide. But India had suggested decriminalization of suicide attempts as early as in June 1971 through the 42nd report of the  .
 
 Stressing the difference in India's viewpoint regarding suicide, the law commission headed by Kalyan Sundaram, the first law secretary of independent India, had pointed out that suicide was regarded as permissible in some circumstances in ancient India. The commission quoted   to show that there were instances when men could end their life. Voluntary death by starvation was considered the befitting conclusion of a hermit's life and the antiquity and general prevalence of the practice may be inferred from the fact that Jaina ascetics too consider it particu larly meritorious, the report had said. The law commission also said the British Parliament decriminalized suicides in 1961 on the view that such persons deserve the active sympathy of society .
 
 “We included in our questionnaire the question whether attempt to suicide should be punishable at all. Opinion was more or less equally divided. We are, however, definitely of the view that the penal provision is harsh and unjustifiable and it should be repealed,“ the law commission had said in the 42nd report.
 
 Though the law commission's recommendation was accepted by the central government, a bill for amending the law lapsed in 1979 before it could be passed by the Lok Sabha as the elected body was dissolved (as   president Indira Gan dhi withdrew support to Charan Singh-led   government). In 1985, Delhi High Court condemned the penal provisions for attempted suicide (section 309 of Indian Penal Code) as unworthy of human society . In 1994, a two-judge bench of the   struck down section 309 as unconstitutional. In 1996, a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court overruled the 1994 decision stating that right to life does not include right to die and upheld validity of section 309.
 
 In 2008, law commission favoured scrapping of section 309 in its 210th report and in 2011, the Supreme Court recommended the Parliament to consider decriminalizing section 309 as it had become anachronistic.In March 2017, Mental Healthcare Bill that decriminalized attempt to commit suicide was passed. As per the law, any person who attempts to commit suicide is to be presumed to have severe stress and should not be tried and punished under the Indian Penal Code.
 
 The law commission that recommended scrapping section 309 in its 210th report was headed by justice A R Lakshmanan, former Supreme Court judge. Commenting on the enormous delay that defeated India's chance to lead the Commonwealth nations in decriminalizing attempted suicide, justice   said: “So many reports have been submitted. Not a single report has been given effect to or implemented.... Even Supreme Court's orders and judgments are not implemented...Government must realize the responsibility and do it. Otherwise, there is no purpose.“
 
