To encourage Gurgaonwallahs to use more cycles, software firms along with a research organization launched a pocket parking project – Seeds For Change – in Sector 29 market on Sunday. The project initiated by Nagarro Software and WRI India, in partnership with the NGO Udaan and the   was aimed at reclaiming four car parking slots to create space for 40 bicycles.

 
  
  (L-R) Mamta Kharab, ACP, Deepak Sharan, DCP, East and Balbir Singh, DCP Traffic
 
 
 
  
 
 Sandeep Khirwar,   Commissioner, was quite impressed with the initiative and said, "Apart from other drives that we regularly do, another main focus area would be taking action against illegal parking. Gurgaon Police and MCG are working together towards it. Although we do not have an alternative to offer to these car owners." The participants told us that commuting could get easier if Gurgaonwallahs decide to opt for either a cycle or use public transport. Amit Khatri, Additional Commissioner, MCG, said, "Steps like increased bus services, bike-sharing, usage of e-rickshaws and using more of public transport is what is required in Gurgaon."
 
  
  (L-R) Amit Khatri, Additional Commissioner, MCG, Sushil Sarwan, SDM, Gurgaon and Latika Thukral, activist, I am Gurgaon (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 
 Offering a solution to ease traffic in the city, Sushil Sarwan, SDM, Gurgaon, said, "We need to create more cycle tracks, and have a more efficient transport system here. In the last 2-3 years, Gurgaon residents have come up with innovative solutions. But we need to do more."
 
 
  
  (L-R) Manas Fuloria, co-chair of   Regional Council, Haryana, and CEO of Nagarro Software, Dario Hidalgo, director, Integrated Transport for World Resource Institute (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 
 Explaining the title of the project, Manas Fuloria, co-chair of NASSCOM Regional Council, Haryana, and CEO of Nagarro Software, said, "The project is called Seeds For Change, as it is a small seed that will definitely germinate and make better and safer cities."
 
   , manager, cities and transport, WRI India, said, "Once four cars are replaced by 40 cycles in the parking space, congestion will reduce and movement will become easier. We need to come up with such ideas."
 
 
 
  
  Sarika Panda Bhatt, manager, cities and transport, World Resource Institute (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
