NEW DELHI: A ministry of external affairs delegation led by joint secretary   will participate in the latest regional conference on Afghanistan hosted by Russia on Wednesday, though the first such conference in December had kept India — and Afghanistan — out.

 India muscled its way into the conference, after   Ajit Doval travelled to Russia at the end of Janaury to meet Russian security council secretary  , a confidant of President  , where he is believed to have laid out India’s interests in Afghanistan. It was only after this meeting that India was included, as was Afghanistan. Afghanistan had protested its exclusion the last time.
 
 Since Moscow appointed its presidential envoy on Af-Pak, Zamir Kabulov, there has been a clear divergence between India and Russia on the future of Afghanistan. 
 
 Russia has leaned much closer to the Pakistan view that the   are a legitimate player in Afghanistan, and should be pushed for negotiations with the Ghani government. 
 
 India has maintained that Taliban remains the main problem in Afghanistan and peace in Afghanistan can only come when Pakistan stops support and sanctuary for the extremist organisation. 
 
 China and Iran back Pakistan’s view — both countries have kept contacts with Taliban alive using them to fight a bigger enemy, US. Russia has joined this mix. In the past year, Russia has strengthened its off-line contacts with Taliban. 
 
 India too supports a peace dialogue and reconciliation between the Afghan government and Taliban, but where the international “red lines” are maintained. Russia, Pakistan, China and Iran have less difficulty with a power-sharing agreement between Kabul and the Taliban. This means India will plough a lonely furrow in the talks in Moscow.
 
 Last week the MEA spokesperson, confirming the Indian participation, said, “India has always believed in close and constructive cooperation for peace, stability, security and development in Afghanistan. To this end, we actively participate in several bilateral and multilateral consultations.... We look forward to the valuable opportunity to discuss with other regional countries all aspects of the situation in Afghanistan.” The Indian position is bolstered by the US, which remains the biggest outside combat force in Afghanistan. 
 
 In a recent interview, the top US general in Afghanistan, Gen Nicholson was critical of the new Russian role. “Russia has been legitimising the Taliban and supporting the Taliban,” he said. “Meanwhile, the Taliban supports terrorists. I’m very sorry to see Russia supporting the Taliban and narcoterrorism.”
 
 The Russian — and Pakistani — position is that IS is a bigger threat than the Taliban which the Russian diplomat described as a ‘nationalist’ group. IS is mainly concentrated in Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province with some presence in the northern Jowzjan province. 
 
 That Afghanistan could be the new ground for IS after they get thrown out of Iraq and   is undeniable. So far, most of their ranks come from the disaffected sections of the TTP and intra-Taliban rivalry. Taliban has continued to maintain that it would only start talks after foreign forces leave.
 
