The   are now almost over! However, both   and their   are far from being relieved. 

 The big worry that lingers is the choice of stream for +2. Students pursuing the Cambridge IGCSE course have probably already decided what their options are. Those from other boards, however, might face some challenges in making the right choice. I hope to help students make a suitable choice.
 
 Parents are often misguided by certain preconceived notions about the streams - that science is only for "intelligent" students, that arts is for "weaker" students and that commerce is for those who wish to go into the field of business. 
 
 The choice of stream, on the contrary, should be based on the core competencies and interests of the student.
 
 Science has always been a fascinating streams and the most lucrative one. However, it is not a stream that one can study without any interest on their own part. A student opting for the science stream can go on to pursue a career in medical sciences or engineering-related fields apart from the pure sciences.
 
 The   facilitates learning and knowledge in subjects related to trade, business, finance and economics. This is the most preferred stream of education by most Class X students who wish to embark on a career or profession into MNCs, banks or even entrepreneurship. One can also pursue a career in CS or CA after studying commerce.
 
 Most students are probably not aware of the fact that opting for the arts stream opens the doors to a number of lucrative career options. Humanities provide opportunity for one to choose among subjects like history, geography, languages, psychology, political science, literature, and journalism and mass media. Contrary to what many think, humanities can offer great opportunities for your career. Also, if a student aims for the civil services, this could be the best stream.
 
 The next time your relatives or neighbours pester you about taking up a stream, tell them how logically you take your career decisions. And that they should too.
 
  (The writer is the principal of Cambridge International School, Guwahati.) 
 
