MUMBAI:   Sons has questioned the very basis of a petition accusing it of mismanagement and called it a "ruse" by its recently ousted chairman Cyrus   to "publicly air his displeasure at the loss of his office." Business decisions taken over a decade ago, some even two decades ago, also those which have Mistry’s "express consent” are being raised as "so-called issues and concerns" by two of his family owned companies making it apparent that "it is yet another attempt to besmirch the reputation of Tata Group," with "no credible material to establish any oppression or mismanagement," said the holding company. 

 Cyrus Investments and Sterling Properties Investments Pvt Ltd had moved the   (NCLT) last month demanding that the Tata Sons board be superseded. They cited legal provisions to seek action for oppression of their rights as minority shareholders and against mismanagement by the corporate behemoth. Responding to the Tribunal’s orders to file its reply, the company founded by Jamsetji N Tata in 1868 filed a 210-page reply to first say that the plea is "wholly misconceived", "frivolous and… not bona fide", both on facts and law and "is primarily filed to espouse the cause of Mistry—their alter-ego."
 
 Allowing the petition would "strangle the functioning of Tata Sons Ltd virtually bringing the affairs to a standstill," said reply. Seeking dismissal with ‘exemplary costs",   said, "by seeking such ill-adviced and drastic reliefs, in guise of public interest, they are unlawfully wanting to displace the control of majority shareholders and enforce their say."
 
 "Concluded transactions" being cited cannot constitute oppression of shareholders, said Tata Sons claiming that no case of any wrong doing is made out in the petitions.
 
 The reply delves into the background of the company and points out that "65.3 % of Tata Sons’ share capital is held by philanthropic trusts…" It points out Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry who represented the petitioning companies "voted in favour" of new version of Articles of Association in September 2000, including the same four articles that they now want "struck off in their entirety."
 
 Explaining his removal, Tata Sons attributed it to "several disturbing fact in relation to Cyrus Mistry’s leadership" "seeing no signs of improvement over his four years…" and the "growing trust deficit between the Board and him". The reasons alleged included his, "insufficient details and discipline on capital allocation decisions", "slow execution on problems that were identified", blaming ‘hot-spots’ on "legacy issues", "lack of follow-through on business plan," "weak top management". "Only four years later did he begin appointing a group finance director, which should have been his first appointments," for instance, said the reply.
 
 It claimed that Mistry failed to embrace the Articles of Association and "failed in his duty to establish a healthy…governance relationship between Tata Sons and its principle shareholders, Tata Trusts and Trust nominee directors." Observing that Mistry relied on the positive comments on his performance by the Tata Sons Remunerations Committee in June 2016, Tata Sons said, the committee "did not sufficiently factor his ability to lead Tata Group in the future." "his leadership was not aligned to the company’s long term goals," the reply said without elaborating on the goals.
 
 It alleged that Mistry "shared confidential information to third parties in breach of his contractual duties" and "leaked" his ‘confidential’ "vitriolic email to Tata Sons Board" a day after his removal, saying how it "demonstrated why he was not suitable to continue as Chairman and director of Tata Sons.
 
 It also said that as recently as January 3, 2017, Tata Sons received a requisition from shareholders to remove Mistry as its director.
 
 The affidavit goes into preliminary issues of maintainability and saiys that the shareholders hold only 2.17 % of total share capital of Tata Sons—less than the required one-tenth—and are not eligible to file the plea. The petitioners said they owned over 18%. The Shapoorji Pallonji family have held shares in Tata Sons since 1965 with Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry a director between 1980-2004. His son, Cyrus Mistry was nominated as Tata Sons director by Ratan Tata in 2006 and has been a director since.
 
 Tata Sons also assails the plea against it on grounds of delay. "The petitioners have either approved the balance sheets or not raised objections contemporaneously..." The law of limitation sets a three year bar, the petitioners are alleging that the cause ‘is continuing one’.
 
 "…It is apparent that the petition is sponsored by Cyrus Mistry—Respondent 11—to pursue an agenda of personal vendetta against Ratan Tata and…to adopt a ‘scorched earth’ policy of tarnishing the reputation of the Tata group…" said the reply which also says that "the petitioners have sought to impugn the affairs of public charitable trust which is not permissible."
 
 It questions Mistry for not resigning from posts of director and chairman of other Tata group companies as was expected by him in keeping ‘’with his own policy," and says "no case is made out of any mismanagement." 
 
 It said that his removal was "carefully considered one" by the board, it was "not arbitrary or capricious," but if Mistry is allowed to remain on Board he "would employ all obstructionist tactics to stall and hinder"its working.
 
 The company and the group, "flourished" during Ratan Tata’s long two decades as Chairman of Tata Sons from 1991, said the reply pointing to a 46 times rise in revenue in 2011-12. It points out Mistry’s own statements where he praised Ratan Tata’s "visionary leadership…through many challenges".
 
 The reply dealt at length with various allegations made by Mistry’s companies refuting their veracity and said they cannot be subject to judicial scrutiny as they were concluded contracts.
 
 Mistry’s allegations regarding launch of the Nano project and its continuation as an instance of impropriety is "sans any merit," says the affidavit. Besides, these are concluded transactions by   and cannot constitute acts of oppression or mismanagement..
 
 The matter is scheduled to be heard on January 31 in NCLT.
 
 Sources close to Mistry camp, said on Monday, "it is but natural that Tata Sons and its directors and the trustees of Tata Trusts would deny allegations and level counter-allegations. The Petitioners and Cyrus Mistry will indeed file befitting rejoinders..., there is no question of participating in a trial outside the tribunal.'' 
 
 Both sides have accused each other of media leaks. Sources close to Mistry camp said, "It is unfortunate although not surprising that the replies of the respondents seem to be widely circulating in the media. This is consistent with expectation set by the conduct of the team since October 24, 2016."
 
