NEW DELHI: The   on Monday severely criticised the Union government for treating court orders with disdain while pointing out that the Centre had taken no action on its order on September 19 last year seeking guidelines on disaster management to make schools safer.

 A petition by Avinash Mehrotra had resulted in the SC issuing several orders on safety of school children after the Dabwali fire incident in Haryana and the Kumbakonam tragedy in  , both involving death of many school children.
 
 The court had on September 19 last year directed the   ( ) to prepare comprehensive guidelines to prevent such incidents and measures for safety of school children. The Centre had sought four weeks to place on record the guidelines.
 
 On Monday, a bench of Chief Justice   and Justice D Y Chandrachud was livid when it found that the Centre had nothing to report in response to the September 19 order.
 
 Finding additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta struggling on account of absence of instructions from the government, the bench said, “The government is taking it very casually. You had said you will frame the guidelines in four weeks and now after 10 months you have nothing to report. The government does not care about the Supreme Court’s orders. No one is bothered.”
 
 The bench accepted Mehta’s assurance that he would get back to the court with “something concrete” on Friday and adjourned hearing. However, it ordered the director or an official of NDMA to be present in court on Friday.
 
 In January 2016, the NDMA had prepared a comprehensive school safety policy.
 
 It had said, “The National School Safety Policy Guidelines stand for a vision of India where all children and their teachers, and other stakeholders in the school community, are safe from any kind of risks due to natural hazards. The guidelines focus upon the urgent need to strengthen risk resilience of schools in rural as well as urban areas of the country. It is hoped that this document will be useful to ensure that all school children across the country remain safe from any kind of disaster risk as they access their right to education.”
 
 But it was not clear why the government did not inform the court about framing of the guidelines and invited flak from the court.
 
 
