NOIDA: A 32-year-old property dealer was killed while his business partner suffered serious injuries when the   they were travelling in crashed into a light pole on   in   on Monday.

 Ajab Singh, a resident of Jamalpur village in Dankaur, and Rajender Bhati (35), from Ghanghola village, were taken to the district hospital in Sector 30, where the former was declared dead. Singh, who worked from Noida’s Sector 2, is survived by his wife and a daughter.
 
 Bhati, with serious head injuries, was referred to   in Greater Noida on Tuesday morning. He is stable now.
 
 Singh and Bhati were heading towards Greater Noida in a white Mahindra XUV 500, bearing registration number UP 16AL8383, when they met with the   around 50 metre ahead of Gaur City police chowki around 9.30pm.
 
 Bhati, who owned the car, was behind the wheel while Singh was occupying the seat beside the driver’s. 
 
 Preliminary investigation revealed that Bhati was driving the vehicle at a speed of over 100km/per. He lost control and rammed into the light post on the left side of the road, breaking the iron pole into two pieces. One of the pieces fell on the car, creating a deep dent on the left side of the SUV. The four-wheeler then went ahead to smash another electricity board nearby. 
 
 Both the airbags were found open while the broken windscreen and the windows had bloodstains all over.
 
 Some of their friends, belonging to Bisrakh, were travelling in another car, plying ahead of the SUV.
 
 Bhati, who is currently recuperating at hospital, said their plan was to first go to Bisrakh and then drop Singh home at Jamalpur. “We were cracking jokes when I suddenly lost balance and the car went out of my control. It crashed into the pole, after which I couldn’t see anything else,” he told TOI.
 
 According to police, one of the friends, travelling in the other car, called 100 for help, following which a PCR team reached the spot for their rescue around 10pm.
 
 Bisrakh SHO Vinod Pandey said the SUV was being driven at a speed of over 100km/per hour and a bottle of wine had been recovered from the mangled car. “It is quite clear that the two were drunk and the car was over-speeding. No complaint has been lodged as it wasn’t somebody else’s fault,” he added.
 
 Pandey said the deceased’s body had been sent for post-mortem.
 
 
