Puducherry: A   from West  , Vivek Prasad, who settled in Puducherry a year ago along with his wife and two sons, was found killed. Police suspect his assistant, identified as Babu, to be the assailant, but they are yet to ascertain the motive. 

 Babu, an wall   by profession, has been absconding since the businessman was found dead. Police said they have vital evidence likning Babu to the crime.
 
  Police have also launched efforts to identify all those involved in the crime. A team led by superintendent of police Rachna Singh on May 11 exhumed the body near an under-construction bottling unit at Poothurai in Villupuram district in Tamil Nadu.
 
 Singh said Prasad’s wife lodged a complaint with the Reddiarpalayam police station on May 3 stating that Prasad left home to visit the under-construction bottling unit on May 1, but did not return. Police received a tip off that his expensive bike was found abandoned near the new light house. They initially suspected that he might have committed suicide following differences in opinion with his wife. 
 
 The team which visited the bottling unit found that the site and the adjoining region was levelled recently. 
 
 The team members spotted that there were attempts to burn something wrapped in a tarpaulin. They spotted pieces of tarpaulin at a nearby site and dug the region, only to find the decomposed body. 
 
 The body has been sent for postmortem after Vivek’s wife identified the body.
 
 “Prasad’s assistant and painter Babu, who was in town since the businessman went missing on May 1, disappeared two or three days ago after we gathered enough scientific evidence. Prasad might have been attacked by someone from behind with a sharp weapon and his body was buried near the site of a bottling unit, which is under construction. We have launched a hunt for Babu. We suspect the involvement of other people in the crime,” Singh said.
 
 The prime accused Babu accompanied the businessman’s wife when she lodged the missing man complaint. Babu, who is settled with his wife, two sons and a daughter at Sultanpet in the outskirts of the town, joined as an assistant a few months ago. 
 
 Police said Prasad and his wife had planned to live separately following differences in opinion. Police will hand over the case to Tamil Nadu police as the crime happened at Villupuram district.
 
 
