PUNE: Citizens will have to   for reaping the benefits of  , for which   have been made in the   for the   area. 

 Changes made in nearly 263 land reservations in the development plan ( ) will prompt major modifications and will have to undergo lengthy process before being finalized. Steps such as drawing new maps, seeking suggestions and objections from public, hearings, approvals from elected members and civic committee recommendations have to be taken for finalizing the reservations.
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had stated in the first week of January that the state government had approved the development plan (DP) for the old city area. According to him, the government approved 850 of 937 reservations proposed in the draft plan. The approval came only a few days before the civic elections.
 
 While reservations proposed on the government land have been deleted, the metro rail zone has been marked in the development plan. Besides, the government has given due consideration to develop the transport corridor. 
 
 Reconstruction of buildings in Peth areas will also be possible because the required space has been made in the DP. The state urban development department has not taken any decision on hilltops and hill slopes because it is similar to the biodiversity park and reserved the call on the central business district zone.
 
 “If the changes made in the DP are to be implemented, it will have to go through the process. The changes are more than 30% of the original plan. It will lead to significant changes. Hence, people will be urged to give their views on them,” a senior official of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) told TOI.
 
 He said now suggestions and objections would be invited. Then a committee would conduct hearings and submit the report to the state government.
 
 A committee under Pune divisional commissioner S Chockalingam had submitted a draft development plan to the state government in September 2015. It was constituted after the PMC general body failed to approve the plan within the stipulated time.
 
 The divisional commissioner-headed committee had deleted 379 reservations meant for public use and opened up 458 hectare for residential purpose. It had also reduced reservations meant for playgrounds, primary schools, nullahs, gardens, affordable housing for the economically weaker sections and open spaces among others.
 
 Kaka Kulkarni, the founder of Nagari Hakka Samiti (a citizens’ organization), has raised questions about the DP and the changes in the land reservation. “The committee had restored some of the deleted reservations. But they have not been included in the DP. Some reservations, unlikely to be acquired by PMC, have been included again,” he said.
 
 He said even the land reservations for playgrounds and vegetable markets had been revoked. Such revocations need green signal from the legislature. In such cases, the revocation of the reservations appears to be wrong and the one the committee had suggested is correct.
 
 
