RAJKOT: An umpiring howler, two quick wickets just before and immediately after tea, change of balls as many as three times and an inspired bowling display by  , meant Tamil Nadu were 261/6 when play ended on Day One of their five-day   semi-final against Mumbai at the Saurashtra Cricket Association ground, here, on Sunday.

 Tamil Nadu won the toss and chose to bat on what seemed like a batting track. TN openers Ganga Raju and skipper   did well to see the new ball off. Mukund, in fact, was the more confident of the two openers. He was timing the ball well and leaving deliveries on merit. Raju, on the other hand, seemed a bit circumspect. Surely enough he paid the price when he poked at an away going Abhishek Nayar delivery and was caught behind by Mumbai skipper  . Mukund was on 21 at that stage and was joined by good friend Kaushik Gandhi. Gandhi could have been back in the pavilion had Siddhesh Lad not spilt a regulation catch in the slips off Nayar. Gandhi had not even opened his account then.
 
 Gandhi, who spent a lot of time with Mukund after his father's death, learnt his lessons and refrained from poking at deliveries outside off sump. Mukund, who had by then settled down, started scoring a little more freely. He hit eight boundaries and was heading towards a half century. But a beautiful outgoing delivery by Balwinder Singh Sandhu, which also kicked after pitching, accounted for Mukund. When Tare pouched him behind the stumps, Mukund had made 38 and TN were 68/2.
 
 Baba Indrajith then walked in to accompany Gandhi. The two batted sensibly, with Indrajith taking the onus of scoring. The duo added 110 runs for the third wicket and were slowly taking the match away from Mumbai. Just a few minutes before breaking for tea though, Indrajith perished playing a nothing shot at 64. He tried to glance a Thakur delivery only to get a faint edge which Tare pouched diving to his left.
 
 Minutes after returning from the break, Gandhi too was out caught at second slip by Praful Waghela after scoring 50. If back-to-back dismissals of Indrajith and Gandhi hurt TN, the wicket of   (16) disrupted their game plan further. Karthik, though, should consider himself very unlucky. He was adjudged leg before to a Thakur delivery, which was not just heading down the leg side, but also appeared to have hit the batsman's inside edge. Karthik walked back in disbelief but Mumbai had their man and were slowly gaining control of the match.
 
 Mumbai's left-arm spinner Vijay Gohil, who went for a few runs and was hardly getting any purchase from the wicket struck one last time when he had Baba Aprajith brilliantly caught in the slips by Surya Kumar Yadav. At stumps, Vijay Shankar was batting on 41 and Ashwin Crist was keeping him company on 9.
 
 For Mumbai, Thakur, Nayar, Sandhu, and Gohil shared the wickets, but Thakur was the most impressive among them.
 
