HYDERABAD:   capped a stunning fightback with their third   title.

 If the first-time finalists Rising Pune Supergiants thought they'd boss over the big boys of Mumbai, they were in for a rude shock as   and Co stifled their chase with Jasprit Bumrah and Mitchell Johnson sounding their death knell with two brilliant last overs that pinned them to 128 for six.
 
 Mumbai's midsummer night's dream will continue past Sunday night after their calm under pressure and never-say-die attitude saw them end Pune's spirited run at the title by one run.
 
 With such good work in the field after Mumbai Indians, a trifle jaded after their Friday night win in Qualifier 2 over Kolkata Knight Riders, decided to bat at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium, the summit clash turned out to be a seat-of-the-edge thriller.
 
 The teams went unchanged. But Mumbai's fortunes changed against a team that handed them three defeats this season and despite posting a lowly 129 for eight, the lowest in an IPL final by a team batting first.
 
 Where the first 15 overs of Mumbai innings yielded 81runs for seven wickets and the next five 48, it was apparent Krunal Pandya (47; 38b, 4x3, 6x2) could have done with some support from the top order that hit the self-destruct button a touch too soon.
 
 Jaydev Unadkat (219) and Washing ton Sundar were so brilliant first up that in trying to break free of the shackles, Mumbai batsmen perished to ordinary shot-making and brilliant catching. Unadkat plucked one on his follow through off his boot laces, Shardul Thakur came up with a blinder at deep midwicket to get rid of skipper Rohit Sharma and Manoj Tiwary made no mistake with Kieron Pollard's straightforward chance.
 
 The Pune batsmen complemented the good work of their bowlers and their no frills cricket showed it was not a bad wicket to bat on even if small totals can be tricky. Had Krunal not put down a sitter from Ajinkya Rahane, Pune, who had lost Rahul Tripathy to a debatable leg be fore verdict by umpire S Ravi, would have been 23 for two.
 
 Rahane (44; 38b, 5x4) needed no second invitation. He added 54 for the second wicket with Smith and put Pune on course to but Mumbai were not done yet.
 
 Where Mumbai were 81 for seven after 15, Pune were 83 for two with five overs to go.
 
 MS  , in his seventh final, failed to seal the deal and Mumbai made a tight fist of it.
 
 Smith probably left it a little late and his 51 (50b, 4x2, 6x2) took his team to the threshold but their inability to force the pace in the middle overs cost them dear as Mumbai closed in for the kill. Pune needed 30 from last three and 11 from the last over when Johnson struck twice to get rid of Tiwary and Smith. The task proved beyond the rest and Mumbai have reason to savour the best of their IPL triumphs. 
 
 
