AHMEDABAD: The sky over   and some other parts of the city may soon be festooned with skywalks, once the Metro rail project becomes operational. The city will have four or more skywalks at different points to enable commuters reach Metro rail facilities with ease said officials of Metro-Link Express for Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad (MEGA). 

 The longest of the skywalks planned so far will be on the stretch going from Old High Court and Ashram Road towards Gujarati Sahitya Parishad Road.
 
 MEGA will connect the Metro north-south and east-west interchange elevated station with a skywalk which will end somewhere near the BJ Complex on Ashram Road. 
 
 “There was a demand from commuters to connect the Metro with important junctions and hence these skywalks were planned,” said an official.
 
 “We are searching for a land plot for Metro authorities to set up an escalator or lift so that commuters can get on the skywalk. If we do not get any place near BJ Complex, then Metro authorities will extend the skywalk up to the commercial tax office,” said a senior officer of MEGA.
 
 This is being done so that people can directly move on to the Metro station from Ashram Road. Apart from the skywalk at Ashram Road, MEGA authorities have also planned skywalks at four other places. The first, on the north-south corridor, will be at the Jalaram Mandir Crossroads and connect with Paldi bus station.
 
 Officials said that the second skywalk on the north-south corridor will be from the old Gujarat high court building to Ashram Road going towards Gujarat Sahitya Parishad. This flyover will connect the east-west and north-south corridors with Ashram Road. 
 
 The officials further said that the third skywalk on the stretch will have connectivity with the Ranip Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation Depot and the   that is coming up in Vadaj. This skywalk will help GSRTC passengers reach the Metro.
 
 Officials said that the fourth skywalk which has been planned on the north-south corridor is near   station at Ramnagar. 
 
 Since the Metro passes from a distance of about 500 meters from Sabarmati station, the skywalk will help commuters there reach the Metro easily.
 
 There are also plans to have a skywalk near  , said officials, but they are still at a preliminary stage.
 
