Students who a re colour blind should be allowed to study medicine, concluded a committee of medical experts, two years after two students barred from taking admission in medicine on account of colour blindness approached the  . Even internationally, students with abnormal colour vision are not barred from studying medicine. 

 The two students had cleared the medical entrance examination in 2015 but they were not allowed to take admission in Tripura medical college. The Tripura high court had turned down their plea, after which they approached the Supreme Court in September 2015.
 
 The advocate appearing for the Medical Council of India (MCI), the apex regulatory body for medical education, stated that the council had recommended in 2004 that people with such handicap would not be able to perform their duty as doctor and hence barred them from studying medicine.
 
  However, the new committee constituted on the direction of the Supreme Court, which included two ophthalmologists, a geneticist, a psychiatrist and a physiologist, came to the conclusion that the present restriction was not justifiable and pointed out that even Japan one of the few nations that barred such students had lifted the bar over a decade back. The committee also pointed out that this issue would not have arisen if the detailed report of a much bigger committee of the MCI on visual deficiency, which was submitted over three years back, had been discussed and its recommendations implemented. That committee had clearly stated that colour visual deficiency should not be a bar to study medicine. 
 
 Dr  , eminent gastrointestinal surgeon who established the first gastrointestinal surgery department in the country in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) pointed out that he himself is partially colour blind. 
 
 "If the MCI does not allow colour blind students to become doctors it will lose a number of individuals who would have contributed to healthcare in this country. After I was found to be partially colour blind, I have trained in and taught medicine and surgery in Cambridge, London and   and returned to AIIMS in 1975. I have performed more than 25,000 operations, taught and trained hundreds of doctors, published 13 books, 230 research papers and edited four journals. I am grateful for having had this opportunity which I hope will not be denied to others," said Dr Nundy. About 70% of all the liver transplants in India are being done by surgeons, who were trained by Dr Nundy. 
 
 With the new report of this expert committee, it is expected that the question on students with colour blindness being eligible to study medicine will be laid to rest once and for all by the apex court which will be hearing the case on July 11. 
 
 
