GOA: Short of using the word beef, leader of opposition and senior Congress leader   on Tuesday said “one man’s food is another man’s poison. If you don’t like it, don’t eat it but you cannot ban it. Tomorrow somebody will tell me don’t eat chicken”. He added that it is a violation of fundamental rights.

 This election may not be his last and it will be “for the public to decide” whether he, as the longest-serving legislator in the state, will contest the 2022 election. On whether there should be a retirement age for politics, Rane said it depends on the “fitness” of the candidate. 
 
 Putting people’s fears to rest, he said that the party would not scrap all the schemes introduced by the   government, but retain the good ones. Rane said the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act hasn’t been implemented properly in the state. “It hardly functions. We have to take it up with all seriousness so that people can get regular employment as well as initiate certain long-lasting projects,” he said.
 
 Oblivious to the active  , the party manifesto states that it would set up the commission in the state. Rane said he hadn’t heard of it and that the party has to set it up. 
 
 The party will not add any new casinos as people are already tired of the existing ones, he said. On whether the party regrets bringing off-shore casinos to the state, he said, “No it’s the way it is implemented now by the present government which is becoming a problem.”
 
 Rane was quick to take a dig at defence minister   too, criticising his frequent visits to the state “It’s not good for the country to have the defence minister visiting every time when things are happening at the border,” he said, adding that Parrikar is here every Saturday and Sunday. 
 
 “Goa isn’t a union territory,” Rane said adding, “It is a full-fledged state and we’re quite mature and far more developed that the rest of the country.” He was reacting to BJP national president Amit Shah’s statement, “wherever Parrikar may be, the government in Goa will be under his leadership. Goans should be assured of that”. 
 
 
