DEHRADUN: As has happened many times earlier, the   was caught unaware of the wild animals poaching taking place under its nose, this time in Pithoragarh where   department caught a local accused with four leopard skins about which the division forest official had no clue.

 It must be noted here that the state government had increased the budget of the forest department for intelligence from one lakh a year to 25 lakh last year. This quantum jump was demanded by the forest department to strengthen their informers' network to whom they reward with a sum of money from their 'secret fund' , after five tiger poaching case was unravelled by police in March last year, but nothing has improved .
 
 When TOI contacted Vinay Bharghav, divisional forest official, he remained mum about his failure to stop the rampant leopard poaching and, the modus operandi of the locals in this regard. However police sources confirmed of locals killing leopards by various methods such as poisoning, snares etc.
 
 Conservator of forests, IP Singh, was found unaware about the entire seizure operation. Chief wildlife warden, DVS Khati too expressed his ignorance about the incident. However he expressed his regret at the continuous failure of the forest officials in controlling poaching of animals.
 
 According to Tito Joseph, program manager of   (WPSI), who helped police in nabbing the accused at Pithoragarh , said that atleast 25 leopards were killed by poachers/locals in the state last year. "Dharchula in Pithoragarh has been a trade center for wild animal organs for many years where locals have been thickly involved in killing the animals. Now it is to be seen if the supply is made beyond Nepal and China. Over one tiger, atleast six-seven leopards are killed, " he said .
 
 While giving example of Madhya Pardesh, where after a seizure of scales of two-three pangolin ast year the forest department tracked down and arrested some 80 people linked with various aspects of wildlife trade such as informers, poachers, carriers, traders etc. He said, Uttarakhand which witness frequent cases of poaching need to conduct operation of this scale. "It is at times in forest department that the officials lack the experience, capability or zeal to tackle the network of animal trade. At times, the works of an enthusiastic official is negated by other on transfer," he reasoned.
 
