BENGALURU: Food delivery company   has won top honours at India’s biggest and best awards for startups, joining a group of peers distinguished by high-quality technical and entrepreneurial prowess.
 
  At a meeting on Saturday in Bengaluru, an exemplary jury led by Biocon chairman   chose nine winners from a shortlist of 40 contenders for The Economic Times Startup Awards 2017.
  
  The jury, comprising a veritable who’s who in entrepreneurship, finance, administration and academia, was seeking winners with the ability to create jobs that can power India’s economic growth, emerge as role models for other startups and stoke innovation.
  
  “More than anything else, it was most interesting to see the diversity of startups,” said Mazumdar-Shaw, who chaired the ten-member jury which engaged in intense discussions before picking the winners. Among the startups who joined Swiggy on the podium was web software maker Wingify that won the Bootstrap Champ prize.
  
  The others included drug discovery company Bugworks and healthcare startup Pandorum Technologies (joint winners in the Top Innovator category); SAIF Partners’ Ravi Adusumalli (Midas Touch Award for Best Investor); and DeTect Technologies (Best on Campus).
  
  The founding team of home rental startup   -- Amarendra Sahu, Smruti Ranjan Parida and Jitendra Jagadev -- claimed the prize for Comeback Kid. Falguni Nayar, founder of online beauty and wellness portal Nykaa, was the winner of the ET-Facebook Woman Ahead prize while agridata and analytics company Aibono bagged top honours in the Social Enterprise category.
  
  “The entries were all outstanding. Every category was a very tough call,” said telecom secretary Aruna Sundararajan, who was on the jury. “The diversity of business models, the manner in which they have built technology platforms to disrupt existing platforms, it was very difficult to pick,” she said.
  
  The initial pool of candidates was created by the founders of India’s most prominent startups as well as the country's best-known venture capital investors. ET’s editors worked with knowledge partners Zinnov and iSpirt to create the final shortlist. This ensures that the ET Startup Awards are a recognition bestowed by, for and of the best among peers.
  
  Other than Mazumdar-Shaw and Sundararajan, the jury for this third edition of ET Startup Awards comprised the group CEO of Flipkart Binny Bansal; Ola cofounder Bhavish Aggarwal; Avnish Bajaj, the managing director of Matrix Partners India; Amazon’s senior vice-president Amit Agarwal; Prashanth Prakash, partner at Accel India; Gautam Sinha, chief executive officer of Times Internet; Rishikesha T Krishnan, director of IIM-Indore; and Rajan Anandan, vice-president for South-East Asia and India at Google.
  
  Business software maker Freshdesk was the Startup of the Year in 2016 while Ola bagged top honours in the inaugural edition in 2015. “The startup ecosystem has evolved, it’s more acceptable to set up a startup now,” said Ola’s Aggarwal, who believes there are still challenges in financing a company but it is “better than it was five years ago”.
  
  The jury chose from five shortlisted candidates in each category. Jurors with an interest in any of the candidates recused themselves from voting to ensure the selection was absolutely fair.
  
  The discussions were wide-ranging and intense, with The Startup of the Year emerging as the most contested category. Detailed discussions led to the field being narrowed down to two contestants – Swiggy and online education provider Byju’s. After nearly an hour of deliberations, the jury voted for the final winner, with Swiggy coming through narrowly.
  
  The jury had special words of praise for the Top Innovator category where they finally decided to award the prize to two worthy winners.
  
  “Lifesciences seems to be an exciting space in terms of innovation and I expect money to follow these innovators," said Aggarwal.
