JAIPUR: In a blatant misuse of power, both chairman and managing director of Rajasthan State   ( ) got house rent sanctioned from the board beyond the permissible limit. 

 IAS officer Umesh Kumar, who is posted as chairman at RIICO, got sanction from the board for hiring accommodation on a monthly rent of Rs 40,000 per month. He has been taking this amount since December 2016. Earlier, he was allotted a government accommodation in the capacity of additional chief secretary. 
 
 As per rules, Kumar is entitled for house rent allowance upto Rs 16,000 per month, if he opts for a private accommodation. However, he twisted the rules and received consent for amount almost 2.5 times higher. Moreover, Kumar also owns a house in the state capital which makes him ineligible even for government accommodation. 
 
 “According to norms, officers having a house in the city of posting cannot get government accommodation, neither can they get   from the government,” said an official. 
 
 Kumar could not be reached on phone. 
 
 Another IAS officer in question is Mugdha Sinha, managing director of the corporation. In the same meeting, board norms were relaxed for her too. Sinha, who is drawing salary in grade pay of Rs 10,000 per month, has a rental ceiling of maximum amount of Rs 20,000 per month for accommodation. However, ignoring all rules, the board recommended that since no accommodation in suitable location could be found in the limit of Rs 20,000 per month, Sinha should be allowed to receive Rs 35,000 per month, effective from April 1, 2017. No government accommodation has been made available to her so far. 
 
 Sinha though claimed that there is no violation of rules. 
 
 “The proposal first has to be approved by the bureau of public enterprise. I am still living in a guesthouse and have not moved in a private accommodation. If I avail the facility, I will pay tax on it,” said Sinha. 
 
 Bypassing of rules to favour bureaucrats by RIICO has come at a time when Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) pulled up the state government for mismanaging the affairs of the corporation. 
 
 
