AJMER: Following the TOI report on how villagers of the first   in the state were 'short-changed' by authorities, the administration has moved quickly to get   (PoS) machines and ATMs operational at Naya Gav in Ajmer.

 Over the last two days, three PoS machines have started functioning and officials are completing formalities to provide ATM cards to 22 cardless villagers working at an   site.
 
 A team from Ajmer also rushed to Naya Gav , about 45 kilometres from Ajmer, to train villagers on how to conduct mobile banking. On Saturday too, they were busy training villagers on mobile banking functions.
 
 Sub-divisional officer Ashok Kumar along with tahsildar and their team are working day and night to turn Naya Gav into a cashless village. Kumar said that there were some technical problems which were being taken care of.
 
 Naya Gav in Harmada was originally declared cashless on December17 as part of the digital initiative of Prime Minster  . A TOI reality check had found that the PoS machines were not working in the village, which hardly had any internet connectivity . People were forced to travel a few kilometres away to stand in ATM queues to withdraw cash.
 
 Following the direction of district collector Gaurav Goyal, the administration also verified facts in the report published by TOI on Friday .
 
 A statement issued by R K Jangid, lead district manager, Bank of Baroda, Ajmer, reads as follows: “The team of bankers from   is on the job to extend all counseling and support required for villagers. There are some issues related to network connectivity and efforts are on to resolve the same.“ The statement further reads, “On December 17, we began the task. It was the beginning of the journey and not the end.
 
 Every new change in society is a process contributed by many factors. Soon the development will be visible.The villagers are welcoming new channels, they are making transactions through RuPay cards, PoS machines and mobile banking, etc.“
 
 Sources said that villagers have started purchasing grocery using ATM and RuPay cards. “A team of bank officers reached the village on Friday morning and connected these machines,“ said a villager. A joint team of administration and bank officials checked if all villagers had ATM cards and found that 22 didn't have any.
 
 “We went to the MGNREGA site in the village and filled their forms on the spot.We will process them soon,“ added the official.
 
 The main problem faced by villagers was that of internet connectivity. “There is a BSNL tower near the village. But there's a problem during power cuts as the battery does not have proper backup. So, connectivity is lost. The battery does not also charge properly when there is power,“ said a source.
 
 “We have informed the BSNL department of the same and asked them to improve network connectivity,“ added the official.
 
 Villagers said that following the TOI report on Friday, officials came to resolve issues related to mobile banking. “We were really upset as we were unable to purchase even grocery and fertilizers,“ said a farmer from the village. He added that they had to rush to the bank for cash to purchase even small things.
 
 Earlier, district collector Gaurav Goyal had said, “We are making continuous efforts. We are also monitoring the cashless society initiative."
 
