Lucknow: Tightening the noose around missing UP minister  , police on Saturday got his passport   for four weeks with immediate effect. Prajapati, who is facing arrest in a gangrape case, is missing since February 27. 

 On Saturday, police also obtained an arrest warrant against Prajapati and six other accused in the case even as simultaneous raids at their suspected hideouts across three districts failed to yield results. 
 
 Confirming the suspension of Prajapati’s passport, regional   officer Amit Singh said the action was initiated on the complaint of Lucknow police. “For now the passport has been suspended for four weeks following possibility that he might flee the country. He has been issued a show cause notice and further action will depend on his reply,” he said.
 
 The police action came hours after Prime   Narenda Modi took a jibe at the Samajwadi Party government for delay in arrest of Prajapati, comparing it with the prompt action that followed after SP minister Azam Khan’s stolen buffaloes which were recovered within a couple of days after they went missing in February 2014. Also taking a dig at the SP-Congress alliance, Modi, while addressing a rally in Jaunpur on Saturday, said people recite Gayatri Mantra on auspicious occasions, but the UP CM and Rahul Gandhi have opted for Gayatri Prajapati mantra instead. 
 
 ADG (Law and Order) Daljeet Chaudhary said police were conducting raids at the suspected hideouts of Prajapati and the remaining accused in the case and were hopeful of an early breakthrough. He added that STF has also been roped in to track the accused.
 
 Prajapati is in the fray on SP ticket from Amethi. Prajapati was last seen in public on February 27 when he cast his vote in Amethi. He has been underground since then.
 
 SSP Lucknow Manzil Saini said arrest warrants have been issued against all the accused in the case by special judge of POCSO court Laxmi Kanth Rathore. She said the police have also written to ministry of home affairs, ministry of external affairs and all Foreigner Regional Registration Offices to issue a Look Out Circular against Prajapati and efforts were underway to initiate similar proceedings against the other accused who have a passport.
 
 
