Visakhapatnam is one of the most picturesque cities in the country. The combination of the sea, surf and the green hills is breathtaking. No wonder people have been praising it to skies. Recently a family from Switzerland celebrated their daughter’s wedding on the beach. The international community that gathered at the function was all praises for the city. One gentleman went on to compare our   to the French Riviera! Another friend recently commented that the much travelled cricketers praised the city, so the beach must truly be beautiful as well as clean! Well, it is. The government has lavished so much attention on it that it can’t but be beautiful. When I hear such praise, instead of being pleased I feel sad, for we know for sure that the authorities are hell bent on violating every environmental norm and permitting illegal constructions both on the beaches and the hills, ostensibly to encourage tourism! There might arise a situation in the near future when there will be tourists aplenty but nothing for them to admire! 

 The beach pulsates with life round the clock. It is like a microcosm of the city itself. There are the regular walkers and the random visitors. Morning walks have a charm all of their own. Both the sea and the sand take on a mystic air in the artificial light. You can not only walk in peace without jostling with the crowds like you do in the evenings, but also enjoy a steaming hot health drink. A few makeshift stalls selling ‘chodi java’ and sprouts are set very early. Gleaming stainless steel containers of sundry health beverages appear to be popular with the walkers going by the crowds that gather around the stalls. For those with more conventional tastes there are restaurants and coffee and tea kiosks. Apart from eateries the beach is also a favourite location for religious festivals like chhath puja, shivratri and kartika paurnami, when it comes alive with the devout. An added interest to the beach lately is the brightly lit dredger that moors close to the sands to undertake “beach nourishment”. It pumps sandy water on to the beach which makes an interesting spectacle. 
 
 Morning walkers and bikers on the beach have increased exponentially since the time a certain GVMC commissioner declared it traffic free. Come Sunday or any other public holiday, the citizens make a beeline to the beach, not only to get their morning constitutionals but also to catch a breath of fresh air. For, while the rest of India sizzles, Vizag enjoys benign temperatures and cool sea breezes. It is a pleasure to see carefree senior citizens walking in groups in the middle of the road. So do the young children and even toddlers who boldly ride their tricycles. Once the skating season begins you see children of all ages cruising on Beach Road. However, walking on   between 5am and 7.30am, when it is supposed to be vehicle-free, is not as safe as the people are lead to believe. Speeding cars, motorbikes and even heavy vehicles,who wantonly defy the traffic embargo, are a constant threat to the walkers. In fact there was a major accident a few months ago, and a senior citizen was seriously injured. The gentleman is yet to recover after his knee was smashed by a speeding motorcycle. All it takes the authorities is to post a couple of home guards at the feeder roads to the beach to prevent traffic from sneaking into the crowds. The beach is the most popular public place in the city and the young and the old deserve little more consideration.
 
 Alternately, it is better that the authorities declare that the beach is no more a traffic free zone between 5 and 7:30 am. ‘We take no responsibility for your life and limb,” they can announce. That way the walkers will be on their guard and not let little children wander free. After all traffic is just one of the many negatives of our lives that we have leant to live and cope with. 
 
 In the rest of the city our traffic police seems to be working overtime to streamline the traffic, with good results. Jagadamba junction today is a maze of road dividers, the patterns of which are constantly changing. What has not changed, however, is the availability of parking space. Citizens cannot park their vehicles in any market in the city without attracting the traffic cops. The result is that shopping in the city has become a nightmare. It makes sense to hire auto rickshaws or utilize Uber/Ola services, instead of going through the hassle of finding parking space, or worse still, having one’s car towed away. Interestingly, such parking restrictions are not even-handed. Certain favoured multiplexes and corporate hospitals, which naturally attract a large number of vehicles are exempted from such restrictions. Visitors to such places flout traffic rule (if there are any at all, at those places) and park their vehicles any which way, much to the inconvenience and distress of those that live close by. 
 
 Not just that, crossing the road at busy shopping centres has become very difficult. There are no pedestrian crossings and no help forthcoming from the traffic police either. I was witness to an insensitive conversation/ incident recently. When I walked into a shop in a busy shopping complex, I found a couple of police personnel sheltering from the scorching heat. As I watched, two aged women held hands and made an attempt to cross the road. That being the rush hour, the traffic was so heavy that they stood for a long time waiting helplessly for the traffic to ease. After a couple of futile attempts they approached the police and requested them to assist them in crossing the road. The two policemen brushed the women aside saying, “Don’t we have anything better to do? We have to mind the traffic and not waste time on you!” Further, “you are not crippled or something, are you?” added one of them for good measure. I watched the goings on, horrified. As I looked on, one of the inspectors sauntered across to a roadside vendor casually, and started going through her wares, the chaotic traffic totally forgotten. 
 
 Moving on to another matter, the electricity authorities are at it again. They have been cutting down trees, branch by branch, after all that song and dance about greening the city, post cyclone Hudhud. That they should attack the trees just when the hot summer is about to settle in is interesting in itself. One must hasten to add that trees do disturb the electric wires and can cause interruptions. No denying that. The question is, how come GVMC and the electricity department have not sat together to resolve the problem of the electricity poles and the city’s trees co existing? What do they do elsewhere in the world, where there is plenty of greenery? Don’t for a moment think that they all have underground cables. They don’t. Losing the city’s greenery is not an option, nor are interruptions of power supply. 
 
 As for the citizens, how conscious are we about protecting the city’s greenery or, better still, adding to it? We all fight for a shady patch to park our vehicles, but do precious little to plant a sapling on the road side. In Lexington, Massachusetts, USA, we used to admire a beautiful copper-beach tree which put out a luxuriant growth of foliage every spring, soon after the snow cleared. One summer we saw a notice pinned to the tree. It said the owner of the house situated right behind the tree wanted to cut the tree since the house was not getting sufficient sunlight in the winter. Did the people of the neighbourhood have any objections/views on the matter? The following year, we were curious to see what had happened to the tree. We were pleased to see that the tree was still standing, albeit a little trimmed. Only the branch, which troubled the owner of the house was lobbed. The rest of the tree continued to stand, proud and beautiful. No wonder their foliage is so luxuriant, unlike ours. Their effort is to save the greenery at any cost. And ours?
 
