Nurujjaman, now staying at a camp in Naikhong Chari, Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh, has heard of the debate on how safe Rohingyas are for the countries where they have now taken refuge. Then he starts explaining why he is more a victim of terror than a security threat for the country where he now finds himself, much against his will.

 The 43-year-old reached Bangladesh on August 25 after three days of flight from  , near Maungdaw town in the violence-scarred Rakhine state of  . Before that, however, he saw all five others of his family — his elderly dad, his wife and his three children — butchered as he hid himself in the bush behind the family home.
 
 “How can we be a security threat?” Nurujjaman, speaking on phone from Cox’s Bazar on Tuesday, says. “We are fortunate to be just alive.”
 
 The debate on how the Rohingyas should be viewed and treated — victims of state repression or a community that poses a security threat — has been going on since the violence started in Rakhine state, long before Indian politicians started sparring on the issue. The refugees, when TOI visited the camps in Bangladesh’s Cox’s Bazar from September 11 to 14, were struggling to come to terms with the various labels that were tagged on them.
 
 Zuleha Khatun was one such refugee TOI spoke to last week at Kutupalang Camp, Cox’s Bazar, one of the first temporary shelters where people fleeing Myanmar flocked. She could not recognize the face that stared back from the mirror, she said; she looked in her mid-60s although she vouched she was 56.
 
 “Most of the ageing has happened since I witnessed what the Myanmarese military did to my family. The men in fatigues burnt everything in sight. My son’s throat was slit and his wife was raped and then burnt alive,” she recounted. “They were merciless. My daughter-in-law was pregnant. She cried and pleaded but to no avail. One of them pushed her into the hut and locked it from outside. Then they set it on fire,” she said. “Itara mog asilo,” she said. “Mog” can mean either “dacoit” or “terrorist” in the dialect the Rohingyas use, which is a mix of Burmese and the lingo spoken in Chittagong on the other side of the Myanmar-Bangla border.
 
 Ganga Dhar, a Hindu   now at Paschim Hindupara (West Hindupara) near Kutupalang Camp, was another woman who witnessed the terror that saw Rohingya settlements being emptied out in areas like Maungdaw, Buthidaung and Rathedaung on the pretext of flushing out Arakan Rohingya   (ARSA) terrorists.
 
 “The ARSA cadre may be terrorists but does it mean that all of us are terrorists as well?” she asked. She saw men dressed in black run towards her village, Fakir Bazar, with guns and machetes. The 27-year-old woman pulled one of her kids inside and locked the door but she knew what was happening outside: armed men slitting her husband’s and brother’s throats. She stayed inside for five days before slipping out one night and then was on the run till she reached Bangladesh.
 
 Geneva-based   High Commissioner for Refugees spokesperson Duniya Aslam Khan, in a web release on Tuesday, listed out the problems the refugees were suffering from. “Many have fallen ill, particularly small children. An estimated 415,000 refugees have arrived (in Bangladesh) since late August (and) the humanitarian challenges have become immense,” the statement said.
 
 Community leaders TOI spoke to in Bangladesh’s refugee camps explained that farming and fishing were the Rohingyas’ primary occupation. “But some from the community have left for neighbouring   and   and got involved in smuggling of Yaba, a party drug, and got into trouble with law-enforcement authorities in these countries. This has led to a perception that all of us are involved in unlawful and criminal activities,” one of the community leaders said.
 
 
