CHENNAI: In a bid to drive adoption of digital printing, HP Inc.’s printing division, HP Indigo, along with Redington India launched a Centre of Excellence (CoE) in Chennai on Monday. With an investment of $3 million, the CoE showcases the company’s latest products and its various uses. “This centre will give our customers hands-on experience of the products along with required training on using them,” said Alon Bar Shany, general manager, HP Indigo division, HP Inc.

 The CoE is the fifth in the world and first in India for HP Indigo. With southern states contributing to almost 50% of its business, the company is looking drive adoption in multiple sectors including photography, packaging and labelling on-demand and customised printing. Besides the company’s digital offset presses, it will also showcase pre-press, post-press and web to print solutions.
 
 With over 85 installations in Tamil Nadu (TN), the state is biggest market for HP Indigo in the country. “Our base is here in Chennai. Also, entrepreneurs in TN and particularly Chennai, are willing to test and experiment with new technologies. Even in other categories, companies who want to test a technology come to TN,” said Kasturirangan, whole-time director, Redington.
 
 Shany said growth is being driven by Asia and from digital printing for the global printing market which is valued at about $750 billion. “Printing business in India is growing much faster than the double digit growth we are seeing in the rest of the world,” he said.
 
 Despite advancements in technologies and availability of products, digital printing constitutes only about 4% of the total printing business currently. A Appadurai, country manager, Indigo and Inkjet Web Press, Graphics Solutions Business, HP Inc. India attributes this to the legacy of offset printing and the mindset of people to look at unit costs. 
 
 “The power consumed by these digital printers is one-third the consumption incurred by conventional printers. One also needs to look at additional costs such as wastage, water consumption amongst others which make digital printers an effective option,” he said.
 
 
