INDORE: City students, who got accustomed to skill based and   through Central Board of Secondary Education international (CBSE-I) curriculum, will now be deprived of this   introduced in 2010-11 as the   has decided to discontinue it from new academic session. 

 The decision has come as a shock for the city CBSE schools offering the international curriculum to the students. There are a total of three CBSE schools in the city that have incorporated CBSE-I curriculum in their schools. All the three schools have expressed disappointment on this decision.
 
 “It is a shocking decision. The CBSE-I curriculum was a wonderful and innovative curriculum that focused on skill based learning for the students. I do not know the reason behind this decision since no feedback was taken from us by the board,” said  , principal, Choithram School, Manik Bagh, where more than 300 students study under the CBSE-I curriculum. 
 
 “In the course of time, several issues relating to operational difficulties, including availability of quality reading material of global standard, were noticed. In the light of this, the matter of continuity of CBSE-I curriculum as pilot project was taken up for a detailed discussion in the meeting of the Curriculum Committee held in December 2016,” read the circular by CBSE. 
 
 But the schools in the city disagreed to these   and said that the issues given by the board as reasons for discontinuing CBSE-I can be easily improvised. 
 
 “It is very disheartening since the CBSE-I students really do well and are innovative. I have written a mail to the chairman and I am hoping that he will notice our feedback,” said Prakash Choudhary, principal, Prestige Public School.
 
 This circular dated on January 31 was received by the schools on Thursday evening. The CBSE-I schools in the city said that even the parents and students were disappointed with this decision since it was a learning and skill based curriculum. 
 
 “Many students shifted from CBSE main to CBSE-I thinking of learning a creative curriculum and going beyond books, but this has come as a huge disappointment for us, students and parents as well,” added Choudhary.
 
 The board has asked the schools to include CBSE-I students into the CBSE main curriculum from the next academic year. 
 
 “Unlike CBSE that has a fixed framework, CBSE-I has curriculum that is designed and developed by the students and teachers connecting it with real life activities. It was also called global curriculum that prepared the students to think out of the box and beyond the books,” said Smita Bhargava, CBSE-I in-charge at Choithram School, Manik Bagh. 
 
