KOCHI: Many drivers who moved to Kochi, tempted by friends into believing that they could make a living working with app-based ride-hailing taxi aggregators, are now trying to backtrack selling off their cars and moving to another avenues. 

 Currently, Kochi-specific automotive sections of   are flooded with listings of several   with commercial registrations bought by availing bank loans.
 
 "We use online classified instead of approaching a broker or second-hand dealer. If we try selling the car via a second dealer, then he would quote a really low price and that would not serve our purpose," said  , an online taxi driver. 
 
 Navas, who at first grew eager about the money making prospects in the online taxi space had hastily bought three cars, two of which were rented out to other drivers. 
 
 He said in the past six months, online taxis have not been getting enough customers and have not been able to make enough money. "I have not been able to pay the EMIs for two of my cars for the past two years and now I have no choice but sell the two extra cars and keep using the one that I drive around," he said. 
 
 Unlike Navas, several drivers who signed up for ride-hailing are planning to pull out of the service entirely. Jijo S C, who moved from Kannur to Kochi, almost two years ago to work with an online taxi firm, is now headed back home and has asked his friends to help him sell his car, which he bought for Rs 7.5 lakh. He said that he was able to settle the pending EMIs by mortgaging the   belonging to his family members. 
 
 "Nobody wants to buy a taxi car that was used in Kochi because everyone assumes that the vehicle has been overused in roads that are in horrible condition," said Jijo. 
 
 He expects to sell the car for around Rs 4.5 lakh, which will ease his burden and work as a taxi driver in rented car. 
 
 People coming to Kochi to start working with app-based taxi aggregators are now looking at the second-hand market to buy cars. 
 
 "We have enough cars that suit the online taxi requirements and it is also perfect for a person looking to buy a new car, because the EMI would be much lesser," said T Suryanarayanan, a second-hand car dealer in Kochi. He said such buyers are now looking at second-hand cars, instead of brand new ones, a mistake most drivers committed in the previous years.
 
