NAGPUR: Nagpur bench of   on Thursday directed the civic body to demolish all   in parking areas and basements in Dhantoli.

 A bench of Justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice Atul Chandurkar also asked the   (NMC) to constitute a special squad and take action against all hospitals guilty of such violation. The court further directed DCP Traffic to sit with NMC officials and consider implementing a host of suggestions made by NGO Jan Akrosh to ease traffic congestion in the area. NMC officials were told to inform about progress made in this regard in two weeks after which the hearing was adjourned.
 
 TOI had been raising the issue from time to time and how hospitals were allowed to indulge in large scale violations in Dhantoli that led to severe traffic congestion in the area. The court’s stern directives came while hearing Dhantoli Nagrik Mandal’s PIL (No 65/2012) through Ashutosh Dharmadhikari on behalf of harried residents fed up with hospitals cropping up in already crowded area that had led to severe traffic and congestion problems.
 
 The NGO had earlier come out with a slew of suggestions, including construction of multilevel parking plaza near  . It calls for a making lanes in Dhantoli one-way for the traffic and demolishing footpath of Dhantoli garden to create parking of vehicles.
 
 The petitioners pointed out many hospitals were using designated parking areas for other activities. There are about 115 hospitals and medical clinics in a radius of just 1.5 kms in Dhantoli-Ramdaspeth areas. A prayer has also been made to stop construction of any more hospitals if not small clinics and dispensaries in existing residential areas.
 
 NMC had undertaken demolition drives last year and as per the court’s earlier directives had conducted a survey of over 140 establishments in the city.
 
 In October 2015, the court directed civic body to prepare a detailed list of all such unauthorized establishments that had encroached upon parking space and publish a public notice in newspapers while giving a warning to owners to clear them on their own. NMC was further asked to carry out demolition without issuing any notice or warning, if owners failed to remove them.
 
 
