Panaji: With the outline development plan (ODP) for Candolim, Calangute and Baga proposing more development in an already highly concretized coastal environment, a section of villagers in this belt are hoping requisite changes are made to protect natural resources. North Goa planning and development authority (NGPDA) will soon notify the ODPs for public viewing. After Anjuna, this Bardez coast stretch had witnessed the first advance of tourism development, which continued for decades, to a point beyond saturation, villagers say. “We are not against development, but it is important to conserve natural resources,” Candolim resident Sachin Kurtikar said. A few areas — orchard, green cover and hill slopes — shown as non development zones (NDZ) have been proposed for settlement in the ODP. “Hill slopes and natural cover in areas like Orda, Arradi in Candolim, shown as NDZ in Regional Plan 2021 are proposed to converted,” Agnelo Barreto, a Candolim resident said. The Orda slope has a gradient of more than 45, much more than permissible for development. “High court had directed authorities in 2010 to demolish illegal structures here, but nothing has been done,” local resident Damian Telles said. The haphazard development in the past has wiped off green and fragile patches. “Water bodies, sand dunes and paddy fields have been sacrificed to construct buildings in the past,” Calangute resident Antonio de Souza said. Some villagers are wary of development on a bigger scale. “When 15,000 sqm gets converted, the situation can go out of hand in an area with problems of sewage, garbage and groundwater contamination,” Kurtikar said. Some villagers are not keen about a 9.3-km road with a 25-m width from Sinquerim to Calangute to decongest the existing one. “This road passes through eco sensitive areas — mangroves and fields. The existing one could be broadened to 15m, as a first step,” Barreto said. The villagers have appreciated the proposal to mark the Aguada plateau with an area of more than 6 lakh sqm as a non-development zone. “RP had shown it as orchard land,” Barreto said.