GORAKHPUR: When a young man won in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election in 1985, the country sat up and watched. For,   became India’s first politician to have won an election while in prison. On Thursday, almost three-and-a-half decades later, he sat in an XUV in a long cavalcade snaking its way among the bright yellow mustard fields in Gagha, about 30 km from Gorakhpur city.

 The terrain is familiar -- it’s here where he not only won six consecutive  , but his exploits, along with a few more “bahubalis” like Virendra Pratap Sahi and later Sriprakash Shukla, earned Gorakhpur – where Tiwari stays – the sobriquet of “Chicago of the east” in western media.
 
 History sheet number 38 (A) in Gorakhpur lists TADA, NSA and Gangster (Prevention) Act along with murder and abduction against the name of Tiwari, though courts have acquitted him of all charges. Once upon a time in Gorakhpur, back in the 70s and 80s, when gangwars raged on the streets, politicians in east UP sought the support of dons. He was a part of the cabinet in every party in UP – with Kalyan Singh, Mulayam Singh Yadav and Mayawati.
 
 Now, in the midst of a fiercely-fought election, his son is talking about roads that his father built in his constituency Chillupar, where he is fighting on a Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) ticket.
 
 “Is kshetra mein unka prabhav bahut hai (His influence in the constituency is immense),” says Vinay Tiwari, sitting in his election office in Badhalganj in between campaigning.
 
 People bend and touch his touch his feet wherever his cavalcade stops. In a Himachali cap, a long warm coat and sports shoes, Panditji, as he is known in Gorakhpur, begins his day very early. He spends time in his gaushala tending to the cows, a practice he hasn’t left for decades, and then begins his campaign for Vinay.
 
 Ask him about Yogi Adityanath, BJP MP from Gorakhpur, and Tiwari shoots back: “Who toh gau-rakshak hai. Main gau-palak hoon. (Yogi is a cow protection vigilante. I care for cows).
 
 Yet another word irks him – the mention of “bahubali”. “There is not a single case against me. I have had to fight right up to the  . I have got acquitted in all of them. Woh sab jhoothe cases thhe. It was vendetta against me. If I were a bahubali, would I have lost elections? The image of me as a don was created by my detractors,” says Tiwari.
 
 His son believes the image of a don may have stuck on his father but the good he has done for his constituency far outweighs the perception. “He too talks about the over-800 km of roads he has got built in Chillupar. The roads you drove on to reach here were built by him. The BSP candidate here (Rajesh Tripathi, who had defeated Tiwari in 2007 to end his run in the Assembly) did nothing in his last term. Even the “muktidham” he built along the Saryu and keeps talking of, is more of a picnic spot where even couples go and romance, robbing it of it sanctity,” says Vinay.
 
 What gets Tiwari’s goat is also allegations of “jaatiwad,” that he started off a Brahmin-Thakur feud in the region for dominance. And, he would not let go till he has proved his point. The former don looks around, calls people from among the motley crowd waiting in the courtyard. His men get a person out of his bath. “He is Sanjay Singh, he has been with me for years and he is a Thakur. You will find many Thakurs with me,” he tells TOI, as he points towards them.
 
 While Vinay goes out on another round of campaigning after a quick meeting with BSP workers, Tiwari takes a break in his house in … A round of tea follows as his men give him updates. He gets upset every time words like don and bahubali crop up, even a tad irritated. “What can I say about what western media wrote?” Tiwari snaps when asked about a report in BBC in the 80s that likened Gorakhpur to Chicago. “A lot of falsehood was spread about me,” he adds.
 
 But asked why this happened since he was part of every government in the state – from BJP to BSP and   to Congress – Tiwari says: “Tell me if you find any complaint against me as a part of any of these government. The image of a don was a myth created around my name to defame me.”
 
 He gets into his car again, as the cavalcade whisks off for another trail, another familiar road for Tiwari. But, unlike the road that he probably built and took so often, meeting people who voted for him for 30 years through turbulent phases like Mandal and mandir, what Tiwari now faces are winds of change.
 
 “People’s temperament has changed. Voters think differently now. They want development,” he admits as he drives off into the mustard fields, looking for votes for his son. 
 
