Last year, the Centralised   Process ( ) committee had to go through 11 rounds of the First Year Ju nior College ( ) admission process that stretched till September. To prevent that from repeating and in order to make the process transparent, the committee has brought about some changes in the system.

 Starting this year, the concept of provisional admissions has been done away with and a student whose name appears in the merit list of the college of their first preference will have to take admission there itself. Students who don't feature in the merit list of their first preference can either take admission to the college that is allocated to them or wait for the next admission list.
 
 Minakshi Raut, Assistant Deputy Director of Education, informs, “The norms are laid down to ease the process for the students and make it more transparent and student-friendly . While giving preference for the next round, students should check the college cut off for the previous round and the marks they have secured. If the student has included a college in hisher preference list that has 90 per cent and above cut off, and the student has secured only 70 per cent marks, then the system won't allocate any college to the student as his her percentage does not match the cut off marks. Students need to be careful while giving preferences too.“
 
 A total of four merit lists will be declared, post which, students will have to get admitted to whichever college they are allocated in the final list. If not, their candidature stands cancelled. Student Tushar Lele, who has applied for the admission process this year, considers this to be a good development.
 
 “The authorities have become strict this year, but I believe it's all for the betterment of the students.Every year there is a lot of confusion about the merit list and the number of seats available. Now, even if we wait for the second list, we are informed about how many seats are left in the colleges.“
 
 While most students have called it a good move that will reduce the hassle of taking provisional admission and cancelling it later, there are others who are calling it a gamble that might or might not pay off.
 
 Manjusha Nadkarni, a student applying for FYJC ( ), says, “I don't think this is a good move.If I wait for the second list and get the least preferred college, I have no option of going back to the college that I got in the previous list. There is no guarantee that I will be getting a college of my choice from the 10 that I have listed, if I wait. Ultimately , I will be stuck in a college that I didn't want to take admission in.“
 
 Adding to it, Hemant Agarwal, another student, says, “It is a concern for those who wait for the second list. They might get a college that they listed in the fifth place on the preference list,but there is no going back. Whether to get admitted to the college allocated in the first list or play a gamble by waiting for the next lists has put many students in a dilemma.“
 
  
 
