Gurgaon: The early Saturday showers triggered power breakdowns across Gurgaon on Saturday, plunging several parts of the city into long outages. The snags raised questions about the quality of maintenance being carried out by a private firm, Sandha & Company, to whom power discom DHBVN outsourced the work in July last year.

 Residents and RWAs alleged the outage lasted up to 10 hours in several areas.
 
 Dinesh Vashisht,   president of sectors 3, 5 and 6, said that while power supply to some areas broke down during the night as it rained, in some others parts, the lights went out around 7am.
 
 Vashisht said power cuts are anyway a recurrent problem in in these areas but Saturday’s outage was a big one. “Everyone is frustrated,” he said.
 
 Vashisht said he didn’t have a convincing answer when angry residents telephoned him to enquire about the power scenario.
 
 Outages were reported from areas like DLF City, Maruti, Badshapur, South City and sectors 41, 45 and 47 as well. The lights went out at Corporate Park from 4-6am;   (6.50-8.30am); MG Road (6.50am-noon); Oakwood and DLF Phase 2 (7.20-9.35am). 
 
 Officials of Sandha & Company did not comment, saying they were not authorised to speak on the company’s behalf.
 
 Sushil Sharma, unit pradhan of All Haryana Power Corporation Workers Union, criticised the quality of maintenance work carried out by the company. “The private firm, which got the maintenance contract last year, has failed to manage it properly. It draws Rs 52 lakh every month from the government coffers and look at the service it offers,” Sharma said. 
 
 Workers’ unions had been at loggerheads with senior power department officials following the discom’s decision to outsource maintenance work to Sandha & Company for all the five subdivisions in the Gurgaon operational circle — a move that resulted in the sacking of some discom employees.
 
 Matters came to a head in December when the union launched agitations. The latest spate of outages couldn’t have come at a worse time for DHBVN, which is grappling with a hostile workers’ union. Officials, however, clarified that the contract to Sandha & Company was awarded only on a trial basis and the extension of the contract would depend on its performance.
 
 Senior discom officials said that the outage happened more because of trapping of moisture by various power instruments in the wake of which the substations concerned automatically tripped the power supply. “When the power lines or conductors trap moisture or get entangled in tree branches the substation cuts the supply to avert further disaster. The fault line is then traced and repaired. Since it happened at multiple sites, it took time,” an official told TOI.
 
 
