BATHINDA: After her stellar innings of an unbeaten 171 against defending champion   in the semifinal of the ICC Women Cricket World Cup, which put India in the final after 2005, all eyes will be on her at Duneke village in Moga as the Indian team takes on hosts England in the final on Sunday.

 The mood at Hamanpreet’s home is upbeat with many people came to exchange pleasantries after her big knock in the semifinal and pray for another solid performance from her and Indian team’s victory on Sunday. Her family members are excited about Sunday’s fixture, but still have not made any special arrangements to see the match. They plan to see the match together on TV at home with many of their neighbours expected to join them.
 
 “We are waiting for the moment when Hamanpreet makes a call to us before leaving for the field on Sunday. We have saved all our blessings for that moment and will pray for her best-ever performance,” said her beaming mother Satwinder Kaur.
 
 Harmanpreet’s family is praying that she repeats her performance of 107 not out against England in the 2013 Women World Cup in Mumbai in the Sunday’s final against the hosts. “It will be better for India if our team bats first and put pressure by scoring big. If our team happens to bowl first, it should restrict England to a low score,” said her brother  .
 
 “We have a lot of expectations from her. As she has always delivered, we are hopeful she will come out with flying colours and will contribute to India’s victory,” said her father  , who works as a clerk with an advocate at the Moga district courts. He tried to stay composed but excitement was visible on his face. Harmanpreet’s younger sister Hemjeet Kaur is more confident of a big knock from her. She said, “Whenever we had big hopes from her, Harmanpreet has always lived up to our expectations. This being the biggest occasion, we are excited.”
 
 Garry gives all the credit of her sister’s splendid performance to the   ground where Harmanpreet learned the nuances of cricket. “The ground, nearly 15 km from her residence, was like second home to Harmanpreet during the initial days of her training in 2008-09, where she practised, along with boys. As there was no trend among girls to play cricket, my father used to take her to the school grounds for practice,” he said.
 
 Her coaches Kamaldish Singh Sodhi and Yadwinder Singh Sodhi worked hard in nurturing her as a national level player, said Harmandar. He said, “I never treated her as a daughter but like a son and prompted her to play even among the boys without bothering for gender. When I went out to play football, I took her along her to play cricket. She has never let me down.”
 
