PANAJI:  , which act as a beach’s first line of defence against the forces of the ocean, have borne the brunt of tourism, a report by a central government agency has stated.

 Construction of hotels, resorts, guesthouses, approach roads to the beaches, landscaping and beautification of frontal dunes and other tourist activities are all responsible for the degradation of sand dunes along Goa’s coast, the study carried out by ministry of environment, forest and climate change’s National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management has reported.
 
 The coastal areas affected include the Betul to   and Sinquerim to Baga beach stretches, Arambol and middle of Morjim beach where sand dune destruction is prominent. “Infrastructure development including parking lot, public facilities and road construction and public facilities for ecotourism development; installation of shore protection measures such as seawalls also contribute significantly either for alteration or destruction of sand dunes. It is observed in the south of Majorda,” the report has stated.
 
 It also makes specific mention of the once-pristine   beach where “several roads, perpendicular to the coast and across dune belts, have been constructed. A large number of dunes are severely altered and some razed, levelled and eliminated due to construction activities.”
 
 Sand dunes act as a natural barrier against tsunamis and cyclones, reducing the loss of lives and assets. They also support various vegetation including cashew, casuarina, kewra, mango and coconut.
 
 The Coastal Regulation Zone, 2011 declared sand dunes as CRZ I (a) areas, referring to them as “ecologically-sensitive and the geomorphological features which play a role in the maintaining the integrity of the coast”, to ensure restriction of developmental activities along the dune areas.
 
 In South Goa, maximum number of sand dunes were found in   which has 18 patches, while seven patches were observed in Candolim.
 
 In South Goa, 99 percent of the sand dunes are found along the 25km coastal stretch from Betul to Cansaulim, while in  , major sand dunes are located in Candolim, Morjim and Arambol.
 
 A detailed ground investigation was carried out on Goa’s coast, using instruments such as GPS and distometer during October 2016, to verify the extent and present scenario of sand dunes.
 
 
