CHENNAI: Cheap and cheerful no longer works on Indian roads. Desi   buyers' fascination with SUVs and automatic transmission has had an impact on the bottom end of the pyramid in Motown. The entry-level segment - comprising cars priced at less than Rs 5 lakh -has shrunk by nearly 50% in the last 12 years.

 According to SIAM data, the entry segment -which used to be 50.5% of the passenger vehicle market in 2005 - is down to 27.5% in FY17. The Rs 8-lakh and above segments, on the other hand, have grown from 19% to 26.5% in the same period even as the bulk of the market has shifted to the mid-sized segment in the Rs 5-8 lakh range. Given that a recent BCG study says the 'Aspirer, Affluent & Elite' segments in India's middle class -with annual income of Rs 5 lakh and above Source: Siam & Edelweiss Research have collectively jumped from 13% in 2005 to 24% in FY16 and is expected to hit 36% by 2025, this premiumisation trend will continue say marketers.
 
 Car marketers say one of the big reasons why the entry segment is shrinking is the lack of best-seller launches.
 
 Although Alto is still the highest selling model in India, clocking around 20,000 units on average, it's a 17-year-old brand.
 
 A number of competitors have been phased out. Among the recent entry-level models in the market, only   Kwid is clocking substantial numbers.
 
 “The trouble is this segment is very focused on after sales service, so it is very difficult to crack this market without a distribution network back up,“ said a senior marketer with one of the top mass-market car companies. “Only Maruti,  , M&M and   can crack the entry-level game. Newcomers will find it impossible.“
 
 Said Rakesh Srivastava, senior VP (sales & marketing), Hyundai Motor India, “The entry-level car buyer is highly price-sensitive but not willing to be identified as buying the cheapest in the market. This presents a challenge to automakers of working out a sub Rs 3 lakh product which is aspirational and meets current and future emission and safety requirements. Hyundai is conscious of this demand and would love to introduce a product in this segment.“
 
