An international holiday is never easy to plan. Zeroing in on the location, planning the itinerary, getting the visa — it’s a mammoth task that takes weeks, if not months. After all this, once you reach the dream destination your struggles may continue if you do not know the local language or get taken for a ride by the agents there. Making all of this easy is  , founded by Hari Ganapathy and Srinath Shankar. The   offers a hassle-free  , from the minute you sit to plan your vacation till you return.

 Avid travellers, Ganapathy and Shankar have cumulatively been to 34 countries till date. A Eurotrip together made them realise they had a flair for vacation planning. Both quit their jobs to set up an activity marketplace in October 2013 which took the shape of Pickyourtrail, a startup that curates the best experience for you. 
 
 "Existing travel sites do not offer personalisation. Packages are mass customised, turnaround times are long and there is no transparency on rates," said Ganapathy. The founders seek to give travellers best of both worlds — a trip catering to specific needs plus an agency that is in full control of your trip.
 
 Once basic details such as destination, date of travel and number of travellers are keyed in, the website draws up the most suited itinerary, based on data sourced from earlier travellers. This can be modified to suit one’s preferences. For example, a visit to Bali includes a half day shared trip which includes seawalking, banana boat rides and parasailing. Should you be the kind of traveller who prefers to immerse themselves in some local art and architecture over adventure, you can easily change the suggested activity to that of your choice.
 
 A clear breakdown of the rates from air tickets to accommodation, activities and visa is provided. Real time help is available through their app which ensures that a traveller has a companion, however far they might be from home. 
 
 "It’s the little things about travelling that are important. For example, if you are touring alone in Thailand and need some information, you can simply chat with us," said Shankar.
 
 Abhinandan Dhodi, from Dehradun used Pickyourtrail for his   to New Zealand. "All hotels, flights, transport, adventure activity bookings were done by them. They gave me a price breakup, a local contact, and a 24/7 active support team. We changed our plan al least five times before we settled on a final one and that’s the benefit of having a customisable package. They also give you heads up for small things like if one needs to pay for parking," said Dhodi.Pickyourtrail joined the Amadeus Next incubator in August 2016 and uses the travel software company’s APIs to find best possible flights. Ganapathy and Shankar are in a space that is yet to see any great successes barring a few like MakeMyTrip. "It is hard to be in travel. Supply is still highly unorganised," said the founders.
 
 Growth has been organic to date, purely driven by customer referrals. After covering almost all India outbound destinations, the founders intend to take the product global given travel planning is a world-wide problem. They are also exploring B2B solutions to unlock smaller towns like Jaipur, Mysore and Salem.
 
 (This series captures the startup ecosystem in the state)
 
