CHANDIGARH: Presence of Randeep Singh Surjewala, senior leader from Haryana and in-charge (communications) of   (AICC), during release of the party’s manifesto for Punjab elections has triggered a war of words where most of the opposition parties have criticized him for endorsing the proposal against the   (SYL) canal.

 Surjewala had joined other senior leaders of Congress, including former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, on Monday at Delhi when the election manifesto for Punjab polls was released. The manifesto has also mentioned ‘Punjab da paani, Punjab de vaaste’ (Punjab’s water for Punjab).
 
 While Union minister for steel Birender Singh asked Surjewala to tender an apology for his betrayal to the people of Haryana, Haryana minister Anil Vij termed him as “dumuhan” (a person with dual face) who demanded SYL water while in Haryana and endorsed Punjab’s manifesto that states “Punjab’s water only for Punjab.”
 
 Haryana’s leader of opposition   of INLD suggested Surjewala to resign from the assembly, dispose of his properties situated in the state and settle down in Punjab.
 
 In one of his tweets, Birender said, “Surjewala jee, do let people of Haryana know that you are with Punjab or Haryana on SYL.” Sharing Surjewala’s photo releasing Punjab manifesto, Birender further tweeted, “Punjab Da Pani, Punjab de Vaste, is against the interest of people of Haryana. Surjewala should now contest from Punjab, Haryana would never forgive him.”
 
 However, responding to Birender’s jibe, Surjewala responded, “Empty rhetoric will not cloud the truth that Modi government is not implementing SC decision to construct SYL. Action, not words (sic).” He also tweeted asking Birender to persuade PM   and Punjab government to give Haryana’s dues.
 
 Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda stated on Tuesday he was not aware about the Punjab manifesto but was firm to get Haryana’s share of water. Hooda accused INLD for unnecessary making headlines for publicity instead of joining hands with them to make pressure on Centre on the SYL canal issue.
 
 Reacting to Hooda’s statement, Hisar MP Dushyant Chautala tweeted that their party had raised the SYL issue in the Parliament twice, but nobody from the Congress had come forward to support them.
 
 Meanwhile, on Tuesday evening, Indian   (INSO), student wing of INLD, announced to burn the effigies of Surjewala and other Congress leaders for their contradictory stand on SYL canal on Wednesday by holding protests across the state. INSO chief Digvijay Singh Chautala said Surjewala should be apologize for supporting anti-SYL movement with Captain Amarinder Singh.
 
