GURUGRAM: Thousands of litres of water were wasted on Monday, after the   from Basai   (WTP) was damaged near   due to the on-going construction of an underpass there. Coming close on the heels of  's shutdown of the   WTP for 24 hours between March 16 and 17, to shift the pipeline away from under-construction underpass sites at Hero Honda Chowk and Rajiv Chowk, it caused residents a lot of misery.

 “Water flow from taps decreased in the afternoon, and the supply stopped entirely by the evening, leaving us with no water,” said Pradeep Mishra, a resident of DLF Phase-II.
 
 However, the damage in the pipeline did not affected traffic flow, as the work was being done in a green belt along the service road of the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway.
 
 The pipeline, which was damaged, used to supply water to sectors 15, 17, DLF, Sushant Lok, MG Road and nearby areas. By evening, though, Huda claimed it had fixed the pipeline and would be able to restore normal supply from Tuesday morning.
 
 The stretch of the green belt at Iffco Chowk, along the service road on the Jaipur to Delhi side of NH-8, filled up with water gushing from the damaged pipeline. “When the underground pipeline got damaged at around 10am, water started coming out in full force,” said Ram Yadav, a labourer working at the site. The water reached Signature Tower within a few hours, affecting the work on the stretch.
 
 Once workers at the site alerted Huda officials about the damage, they swung into action. The pipeline was repaired and supply of water resumed eventually, after several hours of efforts.
 
 “Basai WTP was closed for three hours from 2pm to 5pm, for the repair to take place,” said sub-divisional engineer Vijendra Malik, adding supply will be normalised from Tuesday morning. He added that underground utilities will remain at risk as long as the large-scale excavation works are in progress at Iffco Chowk, Signature Tower, Rajiv Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk. “We are taking all necessary precaution to reduce damage,” said Malik.
 
 In the last 20 days, water supply has been disrupted on a few occasions, due to ongoing mega construction activities. Disruption peaked between March 16 and 17, when the Basai water treatment plant (WTP) was shut down for 24 hours to shift pipelines at Hero Honda Chowk and Rajiv Chowk. 
 
 Water supply was also affected in large parts of New Gurgaon on March 3 and 4, for repairing of the pipeline to Chandu Budhera WTP.
 
 The city needs 90 million gallons per day (MGD) of water, of which 70 MGD is supplied by Basai WTP, while the remaining 20 MGD comes from Chandu Budhera. Both plants get Yamuna water from Kakroi village in Sonipat through the 70km-long Gurgaon Water Channel and NCR Channel.
 
 
