MUMBAI: The Christian community is relieved that the   on Thursday sealed an existing law that makes it mandatory for Christian couples to procure formal divorce from civil courts. Should they remarry without doing so, they could be charged with bigamy.

 The Catholic Church says that has always been the case. Fr Nigel Barrett, spokesperson for the Archdiocese of Bombay, said, “A marriage for a Catholic has two effects: A sacramental effect and a civil effect. A marriage in a   has both these aspects it is both a sacramental marriage and a civil marriage. When a marriage breaks up and the parties choose to go separate ways, both dimensions of marriage need to be addressed. While the sacramental (religious) effect needs to be referred to a church tribunal, the civil dimension needs to be addressed in a court of law.”
 
 “Christians who seek to remarry do require civil divorce. Otherwise, it would amount to bigamy. Church annulment alone does not permit remarriage. Those who wish to remarry in church must seek church annulment as well as civil divorce with the earlier spouse,” he said.
 
 Church weddings are automatically civil marriages since the Church is the registrar of marriages. A copy of the register is forwarded to the government every few months.
 
 Women’s rights lawyer Flavia Agnes explained the perspective behind Thursday’s judgement. She said, “It is a misconception that the church grants divorce and the marriage is over. The British had promulgated a statute, the Indian Divorce Act in 1869 that orders that only the court can grant divorce to Christian couples. The  , in fact, have the oldest divorce law in the country.”
 
 In 1996, civil divorce was firmly enacted. “Before that there were misconceptions surrounding Christian divorce. One woman only sought a church annulment as she did not know that a formal court divorce was required. She remarried in church. Later, she fell out with her second husband. His lawyer informed him that he could easily escape responsibility as her second marriage without civil divorce was invalid in any case. Imagine how shocked she was. She could have been charged with bigamy,” Agnes said.
 
 In the present case, the 80-year-old petitioner had urged the SC to equate the Christian Personal Law with Muslim Personal Law, tribal personal laws and panchayati laws, where divorce is valid if pronounced by religious or community leaders. He wanted divorce granted by Christian clergy to be similarly valid.
 
 “Many Christians and activists like us were opposing the petitioner’s contention throughout,” said Agnes. She highlighted the dangers of such unilateral pronouncements. “There could be a religious leader who may not have the full facts of the case or may not know the religious law properly. Such divorce decrees are subjective and detrimental to individual parties,” she said.
 
 
