LUCKNOW: Admitting that the   works only on the   and leaves the villages unattended citing  ,   on Wednesday said that all necessary steps should be taken to protect villages.

 The CM was replying to a question by leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary of the Samajwadi Party, who highlighted the plight of three flood-hit villages in Ballia, claiming they could be submerged if prompt measures were not taken.
 
 “The irrigation department initiates work on banks and beyond that it says it does not have funds for villages,” Chaudhary said. "Your concern is genuine, but you (SP government) have only given concerns," Yogi said in reply.
 
 Yogi said that his government was serious about initiating flood control measures and that all the departments have been directed to take adequate measures.
 
 “The departments concerned should initiate necessary preventive works to protect villages from   and funds will be provided to them. Our government is serious on the issue and will ensure that the affected get necessary relief,” the CM said on the floor of the House during Question Hour.
 
 Later, replying to a concern raised by a member, parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna said that the Yogi government was serious even about apprehension of any flood-like situation. Supporting his statement with stats, Khanna said that Rs 169 crore had been released for flood measures and added that out of this, over Rs 85 crore were earmarked from contingency fund, which itself speaks about the seriousness on the part of the government.
 
 Earlier, replying to the question, MoS, irrigation Swati Singh said effective and timely measures had been taken by the state government to protect dams and added that nowhere in the state loss of life has been reported. Congress legislative larty leader Lallu Singh staged a walkout after Speaker Hriday Narain Dixit disallowed his supplementary.
 
 With discussion on Yogi government's first   to begin from Thursday, the Speaker adjourn the House proceeding after the days work.
 
 
