DEHRADUN: The alleged role of   who allowed industrialist Samir Thapar and his friends to camp in the reserve forest of with guns and liquor and apparently turned a blind eye to their activities points at how rules are conveniently bent for those who are well-connected. With forest officials not registering a complaint even though Thapar and his friends were spotted in the area since the past few days, sources say that the matter may have been stifled if it were not for complaints registered by a few locals and the issue being highlighted by a retired Army officer who runs a school at Kotdwar. Acting on the tip-off and resisting pressure to drop the matter, the police pursued the case leading to the arrests.
 
 Colonel Ajay Singh (retired) told TOI, “Samir Thapar is frequently staying at Kolhu Chaur for last 30 years, now using proxy names to book the guest houses. The matter of him misusing his clout, where locals also accuse him of hunting in Kolhu Chaur, has been raised by me and many other wildlife activists many time but nothing could stop him.”
  
 Honorary wildlife warden of Corbett Tiger Reserve, Brijender Singh has also placed a proposal before   to include Kotri range and Laldugadda ranges of LFD in Corbett as buffer zone, as two other ranges of LFD has already been merged with Rajaji as its buffer zone. He said, both these ranges are going unprotected and becoming susceptible for hunting, despite the fact that lot of migrant population of tigers from Corbett was venturing in this region.
 
 Responding to the query, pertaining to failure of the forest staff to check the visitors before permitting them entry in Kolhu Chaur, divisional forest official of Lansdowne Mayank Jha said that there is no point in checking the visitors for liquor or weapons, as the latter might hide them in bags. He said, it is also not possible for them to ascertain the background of the visitors and even number of the visitors who come alongwith the person, registering in the rooms.
  
 Principal chief conservator of forests Rajender Mahajan said, the matter hogged limelight due to the involvement of the prominent industrialist Samir Thapar along the lines of Salman Khan black buck killing case. Another official said, that it is common for powerful people to use their connection to distort the rules in the state forests. He said, the forest department would be able to draw some conclusion when a team of chief conservator of forests and additional secretary forest return to Dehradun on Tuesday after conducting their enquiry on Monday.
 
