DABOLIM: A family of five, which included a cancer patient, her son recovering from surgery and her 83-year-old mother, was detained at the Dabolim international airport on Sunday by a   personnel after a ruckus broke out over an unclear e-boarding pass on the passenger’s phone.

 On Monday, Patricia  , the passenger and an employee of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) in Mumbai, lodged a complaint with the airport police against the CISF, alleging harassment. On the same day, the   (CISF) also lodged a complaint with the airport police saying that their assistant sub inspector was ill treated by a passenger on Sunday night. 
 
 However, the airport director   informed that the Afosnso family apologised after they were shown CCTV footage of them behaving badly with the official. They were also shown written witness statements accounting their bad behaviour. He added that they later realised their mistake and apologised to the CISF.
 
 According to the CISF complaint, the Afonso family was supposed to board a Mumbai-bound Go Air flight at 11.50pm on Sunday. When the family arrived at departure gate no 1, the duty officer stopped Afonso’s son and another family member from entering the airport before he checked the e-ticket on Patricia’s husband Kevin Afonso’s mobile phone. Upon this, Afonso is said to have brought his mobile very close to ASI Sandeep Kumar’s eyes, beyond his comfort level and asked him if he could see the ticket properly now. 
 
 An argument ensued, during which Patricia clicked a photograph of the officer on her phone and warned him of consequences.   then, called his superiors and the airport duty manager and informed them that Afonso was obstructing him from doing his duty. According to the CISF statement, Afonso was furious and was not ready to listen to anybody, due to which he was not allowed to board the flight and the others refused to leave without Kevin. 
 
 The family missed their flight to Mumbai. There were no other GoAir flights going to Mumbai after that and they later boarded the 1pm flight on Monday, free of cost.
 
