After decades spent as the aide of late chief minister Jayalalithaa in a posh Poes Garden residence, V K   will spend the 
  with just a fan, a pillow, a blanket and a sheet in Parappana Agrahara. She will have to share the cell with two other women. She is entitled to two newspapers a day.

 She will have to sleep on a cement floor, and will have to petition the court if she requires a cot. She was issued three saris and blouses on entering prison. Sasikala will have to make candles or agarbathis during her stay in prison and will be paid Rs 50 a day for her labour. There is no day off. Sasikala has put in a request for a Class-1 facility, which the court said it referred to the prison authorities.
 
 Sasikala and Elavarasi arrived at Parappana Agrahara prison soon after 5pm. They requested a little time with their relatives before going to prison. Sasikala's husband Natarajan met her outside the court, and she burst into tears on seeing him. Elavarasi was met by her children.
 
 Once they completed the formalities of surrender, Sasikala and Elavarasi were taken to the women's block. Before she was admitted, Sasikala deposited a watch and a gold chain, and underwent a medical check-up. Sasikala waited with about 15 male undertrials for 40 minutes before she was taken to a room for the medical test.
 
 “Her BP was little high and she was tired after the long journey . On Wednesday night, she had rice, sambar and fruit that she had brought with her. Later, she consumed her medication and some ayurvedic tonic which she had brought with her. She has many court documents to sign, and right now, she is going through the court papers.She has opted to spend time alone. Other convicts in the case will be shifted to different rooms,“ a source in the prison said.
 
 Earlier, five platoons of Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) were deployed near the prison. Despite the precautions, a few people, believed to be supporters of Tamil Nadu chief minister O Panneerselvam, 
  as it entered the jail premises. Four vehicles were damaged and police had to lathi charge the crowd. M B Boralingaiah, deputy commissioner of police, said a case had not been booked as there had been no complaint.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
