The   has rejected the   in a case of   and   of trust related to the   of a 1,400sqft plot in Dighi in October 2015. 

 The suspect, a widow employed with the revenue department, allegedly offered the land owned by a third-party to Jayashree Ramesh Patil, wife of a serviceman, for Rs10.5 lakh. She collected Rs7.9 lakh from Patil by December 1, 2015 and notorised the transaction. The suspect then asked Patil to wait for some time as the government was to measure the land. 
 
 When Patil visited the plot sometime after July last year, she found some construction on the plot. 
 
 The third-party owner had sold the plot to some other buyer. When Patil demanded refund of Rs7.9 lakh, the suspect issued her three cheques Rs2 lakh, Rs1.55 lakh and Rs2.5 lakh between December 2016 and February this year. All of them were returned by the bank owing to insufficient balance. Eventually, Patil lodged a complaint with the Dighi police. 
 
 Justice Mridula Bhatkar of the high court referred to the FIR and observed in an order on March 10, “Prima facie there was intention to cheat right from the inception of the transaction. The plot which was identified was sold out by the third-party owner to somebody else. There was construction on the said plot and the applicant-accused did not bother to contact and communicate this development to the complainant.
 
 “The applicant-accused had issued three cheques but, the same were not credited. In view of this, I am not inclined to grant bail to the applicant-accused and hence it is rejected,” Justice Bhatkar ruled. 
 
 Dighi police’s assistant inspector Mahendra Kadam, who is investigating the case and was present in the high court for the bail hearing, said, “We will now arrest the suspect and conduct further investigations.”
 
 After the complainant came to know about the construction on the plot, the suspect told her that the third-party owner wanted to sell the plot on an urgent basis and that, she would help her secure another land. 
 
 The complainant met the third-party owner, who offered her an alternative land, but it was not to her liking and she went on to demand a refund from the suspect. 
 
 On December 26, 2016, the suspect issued the first cheque of Rs2 lakh in the name of the complainant’s husband but, it was returned by the bank. Later, the suspect issued cheques of Rs1.55 lakh on December 29, 2016 and Rs2.5 lakh on February 14, 2017, but they were also returned.
 
