CHENNAI/BENGALURU: Monsoon failure and drought have brought the focus back on the   with the  , hearing appeals filed by Karnataka,   and Kerala against the 2007 award of the   water dispute tribunal, promising a final solution.   has demanded a fresh and equitable apportionment of water from the inter-state river, while Tamil Nadu is bracing to present its case next week. 

 The final hearing began after the court in December upheld the maintainability of appeals filed by the basin states, stating that it has got the jurisdiction to decide the parameters such as scope, authority and jurisdiction of the tribunal. Amidst reports of attempts to take the matter back to the tribunal and delay the case further, the SC observed on July 12, that it will decide on the more-than-three-decades-old water dispute once and for all. But, it could be a long haul yet. It’s quite possible that parched Tamil Nadu may well lose the guaranteed 192tmcft (thousand million cubic feet) of water. Chennai needs one tmcft of water every month.
 
 Cauvery contributes 50% of the total surface flows in all rivers and river courses in Tamil Nadu and runs for about 416km before joining Bay of Bengal. It flows for about 320km in Karnataka. “Karnataka wants TN’s quantum to be reduced, while we want more. Let the court decide on the final award of the tribunal just or unjust. Arguments will go on till August. We are looking at all possibilities and we will cross the bridge when it comes,” said a member of TN legal team, not willing to be named. The court can increase or decrease the share of states or uphold the tribunal order. In any case, both states hope for the best in the long-pending dispute that is festering TN-Karnataka relations. 
 
 “There is no doubt about Karnataka getting justice from the apex court. We are confident of the state winning the case as historical injustice is writ large and there is no manner of doubt that the apex court will correct this anomaly,” former legal advisor to Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah, Brijesh Kalappa, who is part of the team arguing the case told TOI. Karnataka’s major grouse against the tribunal is that the state got 270tmcft of water, while TN was allocated 419tmcft. In this award, Bengaluru requirement was not taken into account even as two-thirds of the city depends on Cauvery water. Noted jurist Fali S Nariman making his submissions before the SC during the arguments sought fresh and equitable apportion of Cauvery water to the riparian states, saying final award was based on the agreements made in 1892 and 1924.
 
 The persistent legal battle of Tamil Nadu saw Manmohan Singh government gazetting the final order of the tribunal after six years, on February 19, 2013, pursuant to SC directions. The permanent mechanisms like Cauvery management board and Cauvery water regulatory committee as envisaged by the tribunal, however, remain on paper. In case the SC upholds the tribunal award, TN government will exert pressure on Centre to set them up “to ensure its fair share of water”. “That there is going to be finality makes me happy, after all the petition was filed by us in 1984,” said S Ranganathan of Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association.
 
 
