PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The shut liquor shops along the six national and state highways passing through the   Municipal Corporation limits might open shutters again with the civic body mulling over denotifying them.

 The public works department (PWD) had issued a letter in March that four of the six highways, including the Mumbai-Pune highway stretch between Nigdi and Dapodi, Dehu-Alandi state highway and the westerly bypass (NH50) from Kiwale to Wakad, had been transferred to the municipal corporation. They are now being repaired and maintained by the municipal corporation. The civic administration has listed a proposal for its general body (GB) meeting slated on April 20 to denotify the four national and two state highways.
 
 The liquor shops along the highways in the Pimpri Chinchwad corporation limits pulled down shutters after the Supreme Court’s order to close alcohol shops at a distance of 500 metres from national and state highways from April 1.
 
 A senior civic official said, “The state PWD has given the proposal, which we have put up before the GB for approval. Once the proposal is approved, the corporation will send it to the state government for final approval’’.
 
 A source said the denotification of highways in the city limits was aimed at benefiting some politicians or their supporters, who directly or indirectly owned the liquor shops.
 
 Activist and former corporator Maruti Bhapkar has written a letter to the mayor demanding that the proposal be rejected at the   He alleged that the proposal was prepared by civic officials and office-bearers in connivance with liquor traders.
 
 “There is a possibility of financial transaction of lakhs of rupees for it. Many social and law and order problems will arise if the closed liquor shops are reopened,” Bhapkar said, adding that he would complain to the   if the ruling party corporators approved the proposal.
 
 An office-bearer of the Pimpri Chinchwad Hoteliers’ Association said, “We have heard that the municipal corporation would denotify these highways. Once the roads are denotified, they will be city roads and the decision of the apex court will not be applicable. There are around 250 liquor shops along the six highways.”
 
