When   stood at the doorstep watching his owner get on his two-wheeler to go get milk, Professor (who doesn’t want his identity revealed) met the desperate question in his dog’s eyes – ‘Oh please, can’t I come along?’ It was 5.30 am on March 8, and a happy Labrador trotting behind his scooter could do no harm. “Let’s go,” he called out to Leo, and together they set out to the nearby   in Mahalakshmi Layout. 

 “I go to this milk parlour every day. On March 8, I couldn’t say no to Leo and, for the first time, he came along with me following my scooter to the shop,” said Professor (52), who teaches in a college.
 
 On their way back at 15th A Cross, a car intercepted his scooter. There were five men inside. Before Professor could react, three men got out of the car, one of whom put a machete to his throat; another was carrying a sword. They wanted his gold chain and other valuables.
 
 “I told them they could have whatever they wanted, just don’t hurt me. But just as I was taking off the chain, I saw Leo pounce upon the man who held the weapon to my throat,” said Professor.
 
 The dog perhaps caught the men by surprise. But the confrontation didn’t end there. As soon as the immediate threat was off, Leo went after the other two. Professor joined in and managed to break free. He called out to Leo so the two could make a run for their lives. But the dog stood his ground, which gave Professor time to run and seek help.
 
 “I left my scooter and ran into a house from where I borrowed a phone and called my son. In no time, my wife and son came over in our car. I told them Leo was fighting the armed robbers alone, so my son went looking for him and found him waiting by the scooter. The robbers had been chased away,” said Professor. 
 
 But when the son called out to Leo to get in the car, the Lab refused to come. He was waiting for Professor to come back.
 
 “My son had to forcibly get Leo in the car to get him to where my wife and I were waiting. Apparently, he kept turning back to the scooter, looking for me. He relaxed only after he saw me,” said Professor.
 
 The one-and-a-half-year-old Lab not only  , but also his ornaments, collectively worth about Rs 5 lakh. 
 
 The Mahalakshmi Layout police have filed a case under section 398 (attempt to commit robbery or dacoity when armed with deadly weapons).
 
 
 
 
