MUMBAI: Argentina may be struggling to qualify for the 2018 Fifa World Cup and may not have made it to 2017 U-17 World Cup, but there's no need to panic, according to their 'most successful' player  .

 Speaking ahead of the U-17 World Cup draw here on Friday, Cambiasso, who has won 23 official titles in his career, the most by an Argentine foot baller, pointed to La Albiceleste's proud record of consistently churning out bright footballing talents.
 
 "After (Diego) Maradona, people questioned if Argentina football would survive. Then came Lionel (Messi). So we have a knack of producing players. We have a lot of talented youngsters that will ensure football will go on," he said.
 
 Cambiasso, an   legend, said that a single tournament could not be a true reflection of the state of football in a country. "Not qualifying for the tournament won't change the future of the country. It simply means that there were teams better than us. Also, not qualifying boils down to just a couple of bad games. As a country, we know how to bounce back."
 
 Another country that didn't make it to the tournament was Nigeria, and that was more surprising since the African nation is the most successful at the youth tournament, winning it five times.
 
 Arsenal legend  , who won the U-17 World Cup back in 1993, said the competition is become so fierce, that any team is capable of winning the tournament.
 
 "We didn't qualify because we didn't play well enough. There's no other justification. That's the beauty of the 'beautiful game'," he said.
 
 Kanu, who was part of the Arsenal 'Invincibles' team said India should back themselves to do well.
 
 "Who says India can't win?
 Even reaching the quarterfinal will be a big boost. But the players must remember that this is just the start. This tournament will give one the confidence to play on a bigger and better stage."
 
 Asked what tips he would give the Indian players to get good results at the tournament, Cambiasso said, "Attitude of the players should be positive and offensive. That's the most important. People want to watch good, attacking football. The people must also come to watch the tournament knowing that they are going to see stars of the future," he said. 
 
