AMRITSAR: Two years after he left the Congress for the BJP ahead of the 2014 general elections and then left the saffron party last week to join AAP, three-time MLA and Punjab assembly former deputy speaker   went back to the Congress on Wednesday.

 In what would come as a major embarrassment for AAP, the party had announced Lal as its candidate from Amritsar Central constituency on January 6, a day after his joining. Hours after Lal left AAP, the party issued a statement saying that Lal’s candidature had been cancelled on the grounds of poor health.
 
 Lal joined the Congress in the presence of the party’s state chief, Capt  , at a function in New Delhi. Punjab Congress vice president Raj Kumar Verka confirmed to TOI that Lal had joined Congress. Verka, who played a major role in bringing Lal back to the Congress, said the former MLA would be a voice of the party in Punjab and his presence would add to the winning prospects of the party.
 
 Lal had joined the BJP on April 27, 2014, but he moved to AAP after feeling “ignored” in the saffron party. Two days after AAP had announced Lal as its candidate, he got himself admitted to an Amritsar hospital after complaining of illness. There was no news about him till Wednesday, when Congress announced Lal’s “homecoming” in the party. 
 
 When TOI tried to contact Lal on his phone, a relative picked up and said he was in Delhi.
 
 Sources in the Congress told TOI that Lal was under immense pressure from Congress to join it, and was able to “convince” him.
 
 Red-faced AAP
 
 Darbari Lal leaving AAP for the Congress at the last minute has left the Arvind Kejriwal-led party embarrassed. On Friday, AAP had announced the former deputy speaker of the state assembly as its candidate from Amritsar Central seat. For adjusting Lal, AAP had dropped its earlier candidate, Rajinder Kumar, and had even overlooked founder member  . AAP spokesperson   said the party would announce another candidate by late Wednesday evening. However, no name had been announced till the filing of this report.
 
 
