KOLKATA: Offences like vandalizing property, both public or private, or setting   will cost the perpetrator a   if proved guilty. The state government has already drafted a bill on these lines and is likely to table it in the   beginning February 3.

 Announced by CM   at a government programme (Khadya Sathi) on Friday, the move comes close on the heels of the agitation in Bhangar, where angry villagers torched police vehicles to protest alleged police torture.
 
 “Some people in a bid to scale up commotion are setting public buildings, individual homes and police vehicles on fire. The government won't tolerate all this.The government has to spend a lot to buy a police jeep. We have drafted a bill that provides for making the guilty pay for the damages,“ the CM said. The cost will be determined against existing market prices.
 
 Sources in Nabanna hinted that the proposed bill will be different from existing acts and IPC provisions that make the guilty liable for punishment either with imprisonment or a fine though its extent is not very clear. For instance, the central act -the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act -has an imprisonment provision but no compensation clause. The   Public Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act that has penal provisions against offenders doing damage to companies other than public institutions includes the compensation clause. The affected person may claim compensation.
 
 The chief minister has gone a step ahead in making the compensation clause more stringent, tying it to market prices. And under the proposed law, the accused will have to prove his innocence.Even office bearers of the organisation calling the agitation may be booked for fomenting trouble.
 
 The move sends out a signal that she is determined to take the state out of the “violent protest mode“. Her announcement came as a warning to the opposition and Trinamool office bearers as well.
 
 “I appeal to the people to stay calm and not fall into the provocation trap. No one has the right to damage properties. A political party shouldn't do all this, neither should it open fire. If someone has a problem with the police, he may reach out to higher authorities and submit a memorandum. The door for dialogue is open. People shouldn't take law in their own hands. A section is damaging properties and another is trying to fan communal sentiments through social media,“ the chief minister said.
 
