NAGPUR: Come Sunday and the premises of   on Museum Road will be buzzing with activities meant to bring cheer in the lives of  . 

 The open mic at the school hopes to attract the young and old who would come to interact, share their thoughts or just showcase their talent. “But it would be nice if they also bring along with them some books and educational toys,” says  , the co-founder of Zero Gravity, an NGO run by the  .
 
 The activity is being held under two of the three programmes, Hindustan, Earth and Happiness which the foundation runs. “This event is taking place under Hindustan and Happiness and we are hoping to create book reading and activity corners at the shelters for homeless,” says Jichkar. 
 
 “The open mic event will bring people from all walks of life who can give a talk, do a standup act or just showcase their talent. The idea is get interactive and share their thoughts as we can do with such inputs,” he added.
 
 But the focus is on setting up book reading corners in orphanages and shelters for homeless kids. “Books open new vistas and provide enriching experiences especially to the underprivileged who lack exposure,” says Jichkar whose organization is trying to promote the culture of reading among these children. 
 
 “We had set up one such reading and activity corner at a centre for rescued girls. After sometime we notice that this encouraged them to read and learn more about life,” he said.
 
 The organization has identified places like Shradhanand Anathalaya, government orphanage at Indora, Paranjape School in Khare Town and a few   schools for this activity this time.
 
 “We have been collecting books and educational toys for the past three years and will be using them to set up these corners. Even in our village at Ajangaon and Melghat we have conducted a book collection drive and have set up such book reading corners for kids. Our request to people are to donate as many old books as they possibly can to provide an enriching and enlightening experience to these children who otherwise have no extra-curricular activities,” he says.
 
 The books can be in Hindi, English or Marathi and can be dropped at Sandipani School on March 19 between 4 to 9pm. “Our motto is maximum happiness for maximum people. I feel by inculcating this habit of reading we will be able to achieve some part of our goal,” Jichkar says.
 
