Mumbai:   (MF), which has mobilised about Rs 81 crore for the   ( ) to help nearly 3,200   patients during their treatment over the last six years, has launched its third fund under its cancer cure series. 

 In 2011, it had launched its first Cancer Cure Fund, a three-year closed-ended fund, which was followed by the second one in 2014 (set to close by the end of the current month). All dividends generated in these funds, managed by  , is contributed to help cancer patients through hospitals empanelled by ICS. 
 
 In addition, the fund house also contributes money to the corpus and does not charge any management fees. Under the third fund in this series, HDFC MF will contribute up to Rs 15 crore every year to ICS, while the investors in the fund will contribute their dividend earnings towards the same cause. Like in the two earlier funds, the principal amount will be returned to the investors at the end of the three-year period.
 
 According to Milind Barve, MD, HDFC MF, a combination of factors prompted the fund house to launch this fund. “Firstly, in India, there is a need for sustainable and regular source of money for   — this fund aims at that. Secondly, we have expertise to manage money and the distribution capability to raise money, which we are leveraging for this cause. Further, we also contribute an equal amount to match the investors’ contribution so as to double the total impact of the money that is contributed to this cause,” Barve said.
 
 One of the most compelling reasons to take the fund structure was that, in the past, several well-intentioned initiatives to help needy cancer patients were launched. However, the absence of any sustainable source of funds forced those initiatives to fold up. The fund house is trying to address that problem. 
 
 This scheme by HDFC MF is the only one of its kind in the industry that caters to philanthropic and corporate social responsibility ( ) needs of investors. And the fund is leading the initiative. “We are trying to introduce a new category of asset class through this fund, which is philanthropy,” Barve said. 
 
 As of now, 16 hospitals across India are empanelled by ICS to help needy patients under this scheme. One of the qualifying factors is that the annual family income of the patient should not be more than Rs 2 lakh, which translates into a monthly income figure of about Rs 16,700. There is a rigorous selection process and funds released under the scheme could be used for one or more of several stages of treatment like surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, supportive care, rehabilitation and pre- & post-treatment evaluation, according to the scheme documents.
 
 
