GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat assembly on Tuesday unanimously passed the ‘Gujarat Goods and   (GST) Bill-2017’ and ‘the Gujarat Value Added Tax (Amendment) Bill 2017 in compliance with the central government’s initiative to implement a GST regime in the whole country.

 Deputy chief minister and finance minister Nitin Patel moved the bills in the House which, after more than five hours of debate, unanimously passed the new legislation.
 
  The GST Act is scheduled to be rolled out from July 1. The value added tax (VAT) on goods, except petrol, diesel, aviation fuel, crude oil, natural gas and permitted liquor, will be abolished after the GST regime comes into force.
 
 The bills will be sent to the central government for Presidential assent after governor O P Kohli’s approval.
 
 “The GST bill will simplify and harmonize the indirect tax regime in the country. It is expected to reduce the cost of production and inflation in the economy, thereby strengthening Indian trade and industry,’’ Nitin Patel said.
 
 He further said that consensus, which had eluded GST for several years, had been achieved because of the leadership of Prime Minister  . The   supported the bill though leader of opposition in the assembly Shankersinh Vaghela and other leaders raised questions about the possible loss to the state exchequer under the GST regime. But finally everyone supported it.
 
 Vaghela, however, said that Nitin Patel was trying to take political credit for the GST bill. He said that GST idea was conceived by the Congress and only due to the Congress had it become law.
 
 “The GST bill was stalled in Parliament by the BJP for more than 10 years. It is Dr Manmohan Singh who showed real statesmanship by supporting it in Rajya Sabha,” Vaghela said in the assembly.
 
 Senior Congress MLA Shaktisinh Gohil said that when the UPA was in power at the Centre, Gujarat’s BJP government had expressed, in writing, concerns about the state suffering huge losses as it was a manufacturing state.
 
 “Under the GST regime, Gujarat will lose around Rs 8,000 crore a year but the state government has not considered this. The tax on the products used by the poor and middle class will also increase. Gujarat government should protect the interest of the people,’’ Gohil said.
 
