GURUGRAM: The Haryana government is looking for a catch phrase to label villages or towns that achieve ‘housing for all’, and has invited residents to come up with an attractive tag line for the   ( ) scheme.

 To encourage high participation, the government has decided to give a cash award of Rs 50,000 to the best tag line.
 
 The government has also decided to replace the mandatory affidavit a beneficiary needs to submit now, stating that he does not own any house, among others, with a self-declaration on a piece of paper, to make the entire process hassle-free and fast.
 
 The decisions were taken at a review meeting on PMAY in Chandigarh on Wednesday. Chaired by  , the principal secretary to the chief minister, the meeting was also attended by   chairman Jawahar Yadav, who is in-charge of statewide planning and monitoring of the scheme. 
 
 Khullar directed officers to announce a competition on the official website of the department of town and country planning. “One who will be able to suggest the best tag line for the scheme will be rewarded with prize money of Rs 50,000. It will be applicable for both rural and urban areas,” he said.
 
 Further, for speedy and seamless implementation of the scheme, Khullar said beneficiaries were not needed to submit affidavits any more. Currently, a beneficiary is required to submit an affidavit, declaring his financial and housing status, attested by a gazetted officer, to avail the credit-linked subsidy and affordable houses under PMAY. “Replace affidavits with self-declarations. All necessary amendments should be made in the rules at the earliest, to implement the change,” he added.
 
 The officials have been directed to take services of unemployed youth through the Saksham portal for conducting the survey to identify beneficiaries in urban areas. Khullar asked all departments, boards and municipal corporations, involved in the implementation of the scheme, to work in tandem to achieve the targets, both in urban and rural areas.
 
 “A special task force, under the chairmanship of chief minister  , has been constituted for effective implementation of the scheme and to ensure that each family in the state owns a house by 2019,” said Yadav.
 
 Around 32,000 beneficiaries have been identified during a recent survey in rural areas. A similar survey will be launched in urban areas on June 1 to identify eligible people. About 1.8 lakh houses will be constructed under the scheme in urban areas.
 
 Those who were residents of the state as on June 17, 2015, and belong to the economically weaker sections, low income groups and medium income group-I and II, will be able to participate in the survey.
 
