MYSURU: Reaching preferred tourists destinations in   will soon be hassle-free. 

 The department of tourism has come up with a proposal of installing gantry direction and   to help tourists visiting Mysuru. It is said visitors are facing problem in reaching places like Mysuru Zoo and Mysuru Palace — which receive highest numbers of tourists — due to the lack of direction boards. The tourism department has requested   authorities and city police for their cooperation to identify places for the installation of boards. 
 
 Tourism department deputy director   told TOI that he has written letters to civic and police authorities to join them in inspecting the spots for installation of boards across Mysuru. Tourism department has reserved Rs 1 crore for the purpose.
 
 This comes after the government decided to promote adventure sports by allocating funds in the budget for creation of aero and aqua sports schools in Mysuru. 
 
 Mysuru has been a favourite tourist destination for people worldwide. On an average, the city receives nearly 35 lakh visitors round the year. The palace receives 3.5 million visitors, the highest, and is followed by Mysuru Zoo which gets a little over 3 million tourists in a year. The other major attractions are Chamundi Hills and St Philomena’s Church. This apart, the city has many heritage buildings and road junctions.
 
 Due to the lack of direction boards, both within and on the outskirts of Mysuru, visitors face difficulty in reaching tourists places. Nearly 35-40% tourists are non-Kannadigas, and they have difficulty in asking for directions.
 
 Janardhan claimed that the project will be executed quickly. Communication has been sent to the heads of police and civic authorities. Their assistance and cooperation is required because the project shouldn’t become useless or run into rough weather. Police assistance is required to identify proper places for its installation, while the civic agency ensures the property where gantry boards are put up.
 
 Direction and destination boards will be put up at all four entry/ exit points near outer ring road junctions so tourists can reach their destinations without any worry, the deputy director added.
 
