CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu budget presented on Thursday showed that the state's financial situation may well be heading towards a crisis in which the state's borrowings increasingly go to meet interest payments ­ expected to hit Rs 26,000 crore next year. Though the revenue deficit is projected to touch a whopping Rs 15,000 crore for 2017-18, the government expects that tax collection will increase correspondingly since the state economy is buoyant.
But many experts say that unless the state commits to trimming expenditure especially on freebies, tax revenue increase alone may not be enough to bridge the deepening income-expenditure gap.
 
 Presenting the state budget for 2017-18, finance minister D Jayakumar proposed no new taxes, but crossed the Laksh man Rekha for 2016-17 as the fiscal deficit will now go way past the cap of 3% of gross state domestic product to 4.58% as per the Fiscal Responsibility Budget Management Act. The minister said the high fiscal deficit for 2016-17 was due to the government taking over Tangedco's debt of Rs 22,000 crore. “The Centre has given specific authorisation to exceed the limit to the extent of this debt takeover and allowed the state to borrow beyond the 3% to ab sorb this burden,“ Jayakumar said. But, breaching the 3% cap again next year may invite penalties in the form of cuts in the state's share of central taxes.
 
 Revenue deficit -when the revenue received does not correspond with budgeted expenditure -first raised its head post Lehman crisis of 2008 and again in the past four years, implying that Tamil Nadu is living beyond its means. The government has at tributed the worsening revenue situation to demonetisation and its impact on revenue collection, a Madras high court ruling restricting registration of unapproved plots impacting property registration, as well as due to uncertainty in the domestic economy.
 
 But the government is optimistic about reducing the fiscal deficit in 2017-18 to below 3%. “Tamil Nadu's economy is slowly picking up, which is evident from the improvement in GSDP rate, up from 4.85% in 2012-13 to 8.79% in 2015-16 at 2011-12 constant prices,“ said Jayakumar.
 
 The budget has very few new schemes or policies. But the minister has managed to allocate funds to all schemes started by J Jayalalithaa when she was chief minister.
 
 The year ahead is full of challenges with the goods and services tax regime coming into effect from July 1 that will restrict the state's financial powers, and the committee on pay commission set to submit its report. “Drought, GST and pay commission are some of the major challenges which the government will have to face in 2017-18. The impact of GST is not clear and we will have to see whether the government is able to bring down the fiscal deficit within 3%,“ former Planning Commission member Abhijit Sen told TOI.
 
 As in the last few years, the government has not changed the pattern of allocation for various departments. School education has received the maximum allocation of Rs 26,932 crore followed by power at Rs 16,998 crore.
 
 Total debt is another worrying factor. In absolute terms, the total debt has increased from Rs 2.52 lakh crore to Rs 3.14 lakh crore. Though the debt is within permissible limits, the interest cost is rising and, in the coming year, interest payments are expected to increase by 21%.
 
 The finance minister did not paint a rosy picture of the economy ahead at the end of his speech but took comfort in the increase in value added tax on fuel early this month that is likely to boost government revenue.
 
