GHAZIABAD: With over 8.6 lakh voters,   is the largest assembly constituency in   and comprises all the upscale areas in the trans-Hindon region of the district. Majority of voters in this seat are concentrated in Indirapuram, Vasundhara, Vaishali and  , apart from Sahibabad.

 The newly developed housing hub, Raj Nagar Extension,and the entire Khoda colony, a lower-middle income group settlement, are also under Sahibabad constituency. Historically, polling behaviour in the assembly seat tends to be less caste-oriented than the other constituencies of the district because majority of voters belong to the urban middle class.
 
 As the polling date draws near, infrastructure, civic issues and law & order remain on top of the minds of voters. In Indirapuram, where civic and development works are the prerogative of GDA, there is discontent against successive state governments for having paid scant attention to the township.
 
 “Basic infrastructure is lacking in the town. Successive governments failed to set up a government college or a medical college here despite repeated entreaties. On the other hand, the government has also turned a blind eye towards those who violate building bylaws or those who bypass norms. An   from this seat should at least raise questions about local issues in the assembly vis-à-vis government agencies,” said Alok Kumar, founder, Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association, Ghaziabad.
 
 The grouse against government authorities seems to be all pervasive in the constituency. In neighbouring Kaushambi, for example, voters are miffed with GMC, which is in charge of the civic amenities of the area.
 
 “The local councillor and the mayor belong to BJP. The municipal corporation is ruled by BJP. This apart, the local MP is also from BJP. However, Kaushambi township is in a civic mess. Despite promises of ushering in all-round development by BJP during the general elections of 2014, our township has remained as it is,” said VK Mittal, president,   of RWAs.
 
 In Khoda, where majority of voters belong to the working class, civic and developmental issues seem to be the main talking points. Prior to the 2012 assembly polls, BSP supremo Mayawati, who was the chief minister then, had announced a package of Rs 300 crore for development of Khoda. 
 
 “However, nearly one-sixth of the amount was actually released by the urban development department later. Cosmetic works pertaining to electricity and sewer lines were undertaken. Basic civic facilities continue to elude Khoda,” said a local social activist, Victor Francis.
 
 
