BHOPAL: After the AAP ( ) government in Delhi with support from Congress have urged for use of ballot papers in the upcoming municipal corporation polls in the Capital, the Congress in   also on Tuesday demanded for voting by ballot papers instead of EVMs during the Ater and Bandhavgarh assembly   in the state next month. Congress party on Tuesday afternoon submitted a memorandum to the   here demanding for voting by ballot papers and not EVMs.

 “We have been repeatedly saying in Madhya Pradesh that instances of tampering of EVM machines during elections here are rampant. We have raised this issue practically after every election,” state Congress president Arun Yadav said.
 
 Soon after results of the Uttar Pradesh elections were announced on Saturday morning, BSP supremo Mayawati was the first to allege that tampering of EVMs gave electoral victory to BJP even in seats with predominant Muslim population. On Tuesday morning, the Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal joined Mayawati’s claim and wrote to Election Commission asking for use of ballot papers in place of EVM machines. The municipal corporation polls in Delhi are scheduled for April 25.
 
 Arvind Kejriwal’s demand for ballot papers was rejected by the Election Commission. But in Madhya Pradesh the state Congress joined Kejriwal’s chorus and said they do not trust voting by EVMs any longer. “We have submitted a memorandum to Election Commission demanding voting by ballot papers for Ater and Bandhavgarh assembly by-polls,” Arun Yadav told TOI.
 
 Ater assembly seat in Bhind and Bandhavgarh in Umaria district go to the polls on April 9, a fortnight before Delhi goes for MCD polls. State Congress chief spokesman KK Mishra argued that that all political parties in the country are suspicious about BJP’s performance and massive landslide in the Uttar Pradesh elections.
 
 “Congress party in Madhya Pradesh has officially lodged complaint with the EC several times about tampered EVMs. In the 2013 elections, during the mock polls exercise in Agar town, the EVM displayed rigging. When the button for Congress hand symbol was pressed, the light on the BJP’s lotus flashed,” KK Mishra said. “The Congress party prepared a `panchnama’ and submitted it to the EC. The EC, however, took no action. This is precisely why after the Uttar Pradesh results, the Union government’s connivance with the EC is not an impossible theory. Our point is that if in developed countries like the US and Japan, voting is still by ballots – then why not in India?” he asked.
 
 From Alia to Anushka, Arijit to Armaan, Papon to Pritam, Sonu to Sukhwinder and Varun to Diljit - the biggest music and Bollywood stars say Music ko Mirchi ka Salaam! Catch the Royal Stag Mirchi Music Awards on 19th March at 8 PM on Zee TV.
 
 
