Parallel to the ever-continuing debate that cinema is an art and the director a true artiste runs discussions on how movies also need to be commercially viable. And it is a given that a famous star, an A-lister, is the most probable way of drawing audiences to the theatres. Which is why, perhaps, ‘We need a known face’ is almost a refrain here among all the biggie filmmakers who can afford the stars and their tantrums! Of late, however, there’s another trend that’s making its presence felt in Kollywood. It’s actually quite a smart move to get back the moolah they spent making movies. What they are doing is based on the current box-office popularity of a star, they are releasing long-pending movies made by them with the same star. Even Tamil dubbed versions of other language films of protagonist who are on a winning streak are being shown in the theatres. A few of such movies are…

 
 Mysskin’s recently released Thupparivalan, with Vishal in the lead, has been receiving rave reviews for its narration, performances and technical aspects.  , who played a ruthless villain in the film, too, was applauded for the notable portrayal of his role. Call it a coincidence or a decision taken earlier, his long-pending Aayirathil Iruvar, directed by  , has hit the screens. Apart from the merits of the film as claimed by the makers, they can’t be blamed for cashing in on the buzz surrounding Thupparivalan. 
 
 
 Dhuruvangal Pathinaaru ( ), which released towards the end of last year, went on to become a sleeper hit. Directed by debutant Karthick Naren, starring Rahman in the lead role, the movie was appreciated for its style and intriguing screenplay. The unexpected success of this suspense thriller brought Rahman in the limelight again after a hiatus. 
 Pagadi Aattam, which hit the screens in less than two months of DP’s release, had posters of the actor cashing in on the film’s craze. However, Pagadi Aattam had the actor appearing only in the second half and the project ended up as a damp squib.
 
 
 The poster of this film, featuring   prominently, was doing the rounds on social media, leaving movie buffs baffled as to what it was. Later, it was known that Edakku is the dubbed Tamil version of the Sandalwood flick Akhada, which had the actor in a negative role. Interestingly, that was a project which happened before Vijay became successful in Kollywood. The makers decided to bring out a Tamil version when Sethupathi was considered as the next big thing in Kollywood, with a handful of projects, and Pannaiyarum Padminiyum receiving critical acclaim.
 
 
 The film hit the headlines when Bobby Simhaa filed a complaint in   alleging that the makers have been using him on the posters when he was actually not a part of the film, and hence requested the association to take necessary action. Later, it was known that the insipid horror flick was made years ago, with the actor starring in a few scenes in it. But the crux was that Meera Jakkirathai released while Bobby was otherwise in the news for his wedding and his last release, the much-expected  , was only a couple of months old.
 
