CHANDIGARH: Highlighting its achievements on completing 1,000 days of its rule in Haryana, the BJP government on Friday claimed it had brought transparency in public functioning. However, opposition parties, the INLD and the  , have attacked the ruling party for its failures.

 In an hour long briefing on Friday, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar claimed the end of ‘cash-for-job,’ ‘cash-for-transfer’ and ‘cash-for-change of land use (CLU)’ during the BJP regime. He also claimed that for the first time Haryana had recorded the 5% aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses by electricity distribution companies and increase in the revenue of electricity arrears.
 
 Khattar said, “We have spent a lot of time in filling the economic and social pits dug up by Congress. Some pits had loads of mud.”
 
 Without naming former CM   and his MP son Deepender Hooda, Khattar blamed the previous Congress government for haphazard growth of Gurugram. He said it forced the government to constitute   (GMDA) to correct the planning of the city, which is known as ‘gateway to Haryana.’
 
 “Though we had invited ire of many, including some from our own party, we have managed to complete transparency in the recruitment to police and other departments. We had even ensured that the junior basic trained (JBT) teachers awaiting appointment letters got their postings as soon as possible. Today nobody talks of corruption in transfers, appointments and for CLU permissions,” said Khattar.
 
 Referring to the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue, Khattar said the decision was in the favour of Haryana and it was a matter of implementation of the court orders. “It will be done soon, hence we should not politicize it,” he said.
 
 Referring to farmers’ issues, Khattar targetted Hooda while referring to the   committee’s recommendations. “We have followed many instructions. But what stopped the Congress government from implementing the report during its tenure?” he asked.
 
 Khattar termed the ‘ease of doing business’ and investment summits as key catalysts for bringing investment to Haryana. “Nearly 250 companies have already started working on their projects and others are following. We are hopeful of achieving our investment target by 2019,” he said.
 
 Box:
 
 While Khattar highlighted the 1,000 days of governance by the BJP government, opposition asked him to elaborate on his failures. Hisar MP Dushyant Chautala of INLD said besides caste and communal violence in the state, it was for the first time when farmers had to spend five days in jail. “They could not provide jobs to 20 youths through the employment exchanges in 1,000 days,” he said. Senior Congress leader   said 700 government schools were closed during the BJP regime in Haryana. “They should have counted the failures than the achievements. They just resorted to ‘badla badli’ (vindictiveness and transfers) or the renaming of projects,” said former CM Hooda while referring to 1,000 days of the BJP government.
 
