JAIPUR: Suffering from severe  ,   (17) who   on his feet and moves his hands is giving   to his   in a coaching institute for  . 

 A native of Midnapore in West Bengal, Dey is aspiring to become a physicists and cosmologists like Stephen Hawkins. Having studied in Central School located in the IIT Khadakpur campus till Class X, Tuhin came to Kota last month to pursue his dream of becoming a scientist in astro physics.
 
 “I want to pursue my B.Tech from IIT Kharagpur followed by Masters form Oxford University. My biggest wish is to meet my hero Stephen Hawkins one day,” said Tuhin. Since early years, he is suffering from Ortho Graphosis Multiplex disease which has made his tissues weak enough to handle his weight.
 
 Dey is entitled to get a writer in the exams but the brave boy has full confidence and has developed extra ordinary skill of writing from the mouth. Tuhin unwraps books, holds pen in his mouth to write and uses his lips to use mobile and laptop with precision, accuracy and firmness matching to any ordinary boy. The speed at which he uses his lips for typing messages on a cell phone can give avid mobile user for run.
 
 Fond of computer programming, he has self learned C++, Advanced Java etc. His programming skills can give shock to an engineering grad.
 
 He is probably the only child to have won to national level awards from the president Pranab Mukherjee. The HRD ministry awarded him best creative child in 2012 followed by exceptional achievement award in 2013. 
 
 Elated over the courage of his son, Sumiran Dey, father of Tuhin, says, “I have left no place for his treatment from Kolkata to Vellore. I am confident my son will one day emerge as an example for sons like him.” The shortcoming has never come in his way, says Dey, when we lose our confidence, he keep our spirits high. 
 
 Dey underwent 20 operations. “A plate has been inserted into his body to keep him straight so that he can stand for a while in a stretch. I have been thankful for consecutive Union and state governments for helping along with NGOs for his treatment,” said Samiran. 
 
 Standing like a will for their son, Dey’s parents have also left their native place to live with their son. “I am a small property dealer in Midnapore. Here I have no idea what I’ll be doing but I will try to meet the ends.” The coaching institute has waived off his fees and hostel fees as a gesture to support his confidence. 
 
