THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   state general secretaries will lead  , to mobilize public sentiments in favour of the   government at the Centre, on Sunday. According to official party sources, the campaign also aimed “to expose LDF and UDF, which are sides of the same coin”. The four rallies, to be taken out simultaneously, will cover all the 140 assembly constituencies in the state.

 Party general secretaries, A N Radhakrishnan, M T Ramesh, K Surendran, and Sobha Surendran will lead the rallies. BJP national secretary H Raja and Karnataka MP Nalin Kumar Kateel will attend reception meetings.
 
 Former state president of the party, P K Krishnadas will inaugurate the rally in the Kozhikode region, which will be led by Radhakrishnan, at Muthalakkulam at 5pm on Sunday. 
 
 It will cover Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Malappuram districts before concluding at Manjeswaram Uppala assembly constituency on January 12.
 
 Surendran will cover Palakkad region, touching upon 14 assembly constituencies in Malappuram and Palakkad districts and 10 in Thrissur district. BJP former state president C K Padmanabhan will inaugurate the rally at Palakkad Stadium.
 
 Sobha Surendran will lead the Ernakulam region rally that begins from Changanassery. BJP state president Kummanam Rajasekharan would inaugurate the rally. The rally will cover, Ernakulam, Kottayam, Idukki and parts of Alappuzha and Thrissur districts.
 
 BJP senior leader O Rajagopal will inaugurate the southern region rally to be led by Ramesh at Chengannur. It will go through Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta, Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram and conclude with a public meeting at   here at 5pm on Thursday. Rajasekharan will inaugurate the valedictory meet.
 
 BJP state council meeting is scheduled to begin in Kottayam on January 18. It’s for the first time the state council is meeting after Rajasekharan assumed charge as president of the party unit. State executive and core committee meeting of the party will be held on January 17 and 16 respectively. 
 
 As many as 1,260 representatives are expected to attend the council meeting, which would dicscuss 2019   elections. The central leadership has asked the state party unit to begin the election works in advance.
 
