LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh’s women have played a vital role in the unprecedented voter turnout in the state’s 2017 assembly polls. The historic overall first division score this year was made possible by women   staying the course and maintaining a consistent 63.26% polling up from 61% in 2012.

 The significant rise in the number of women voters, psephologists say, is not without dedicated efforts by political parties to woo them. 
 
 The Samajwadi Party, traditionally known to allow the muscle culture to flourish, made its first key effort to win over women by launching the 1090 Women’s Power Line in UP. The dedicated round-the-clock call centre for women in distress, chief minister Akhilesh Yadav said, was aimed at assuring women that the ruling SP government was keen to secure not just urban women, but also those in rural UP, where they felt vulnerable under SP rule. Akhilesh followed up on the power line with the launch of UP-100, another government initiative to provide police support to rural and urban areas in the state within 20 minutes of receiving a complaint on the 24-hour emergency support system. 
 
 While the exact impact of the initiative remains unclear, the trademark UP-100 vehicles are now visible across the state in rural and urban areas. The second initiative by the SP aimed at endearing women was the Samajwadi Pension Yojana under which BPL women received a monthly pension of Rs 500. In a bid to provide enhanced financial security to women in the state, the CM has promised to double the amount to Rs 1,000 if re-elected to power. 
 
 The BJP, too, worked hard on wooing UP’s women. The Prime Minister’s Ujjawala scheme, launched across India from East UP’s Gorakhpur district, provides free LPG gas connections and stoves to BPL woman. The scheme instantly reached out to a captive rural audience that had, for years, cooked on wood or earthen fire. The free gas connections are believed to have won over the women to the saffron side. Closer to the end of UP polls, the BJP also came up with the promise of setting up anti-Romeo squads, once again, promised to protect women folk against errant men in UP. While the initiative had clear communal overtones, the initiative is believed to be targeting women and securing their persons. 
 
 Bahujan Samaj Party though did not make any direct promises to women voters in UP, it laid repeated emphasis on the party’s ability to get an iron grip over the law and order condition in the state. In continuation of this, in the 2017  , the BSP chief’s campaigns have also focused on her ability to safeguard UP’s ‘behen betiyan’. With her administrative record, there are few who could doubt her ability to keep UP’s goons in check. 
 
 
