Ponnani in Malappuram, the historic trade port of Tipu Sultan, is well-known for its nationalist movements, dargahs and a vibrant Muslim tradition. 

 At   Biennale 2016, photographer   magnifies the liveliness and uplifts the uniqueness of the quaint little town through 38 black and white photographs he has exhibited at the event. Titled Vanishing Life – Worlds, it brings forth glimpses from the rituals, personalities and the life of Ponnani, which makes it stand out.
 
 “This is Aboobackar, he runs a medical shop in Ponnani. The speciality of the shop is that you can only buy medicines for free from this outlet,” says Sunil, pointing at the photograph of an elderly man, busy dispensing some medicines. Sunil moves on to the next, the photo of a curious old man named Azees, who was a pick pocket! “I coerced him to say his story and somehow, he finally started speaking about his life. He stopped halfway through, saying the rest would be narrated on another day and that he will call me. A few days later, I heard that he was killed by a man he knew, at a lodge,” recalls the shutterbug who hails from Kodungalloor.
 
 A photo in which a tender little baby hand is being imprinted with Arabic letters captures ones attention, for the sheer innocent aura of the picture. “There is a custom called Dulhaj, practised in Ponnani. A dying custom, it is the celebration in which the hands of kids in madrassas are written with Arabic letters, using medicinal Arabic ink. I captured this picture at one such occasion,” he recounts.
 Each of his pictures say stories of a 1,000 words, backed by rich history and a tempting local flavour. Interestingly, there were even visitors from Ponnani at the Biennale, who said that they hardly knew that such characters existed in their society.
 
 Why Ponnani was picked for this photo saga?
 
 “A few years ago I visited Ponnani with a few of my friends. We were there for no reason, just to chill out. I got to mingle with the local people there, taste some tasty regional cuisine, and got drawn to the place. The associations and friendships I made at that visit, kept beckoning me back to the place. Within two years, I had these photos ready for such a series,” says Sunil, who is also the winner of multiple photography awards.
 Ask him why the photos are in black and white, and Sunil says, “I didn’t want the focus to be shifted from the characters to the colours surrounding them. I wanted to highlight the story of the people here, more than presenting an aesthetic show,” he signs off. 
 
