VISAKHAPATNAM: Vaddi Mahesh, the main accused in the Rs 570 crore hawala scam unearthed by Visakhapatnam police, is only a commission agent, said the AP CID which took over the investigation from the city cops on Monday. 

 Describing the scam as one bigger than the Agrigold case,   (CID) officials said more that Rs 1,300 crore was laundered through various hawala channels in the country and abroad. The total amount could be five times more than the present sum, said CID sources. 
 
 Landing in the port city on Monday morning, chief of the economic offences wing Amit Garg discussed the case with city police commissioner   and CID officials. Sources said the AP CID may consult the CBI, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) and the   on the case. 
 
 According to cops, main accused Mahesh is only an agent and that the top guns in the money laundering case may have already escaped to foreign countries. 
 
 Sources said the CID would file a petition in the CID court seeking custody of documents submitted by the city police in the local court. The local court on Monday remanded Vaddi Mahesh to 14 days judicial custody. The CID is to seek the custody of Mahesh for further interrogation. Sources said the CID is likely to form six special teams to gather evidences in the case. The officials may also seek help from an external agency to analyse the transactions through bank accounts. “We need to know how the money went abroad and whether that money has come back or has been diverted to other destinations. We have to take the help of forensic experts in the state and also cyber forensic analysts, besides the DRI for inputs,” a senior official in CID told TOI.
 
 Another senior CID official said it is important to determine if the case is related to money laundering or hawala and that depended on the nature and destination of the transactions.
 
 “Mahesh may only be the first layer in a multi-layered scam. We need to interrogate all the directors and analyse hard discs, if any, seized by IT officials,” he said.
 
 “We cannot rule out the role of bankers in the scam as usually bankers are aware of huge domestic or foreign remissions,” a senior CID inspector said. 
 
 The CID is likely to form six special teams to gather evidences in the case. The officials may seek help from an external agency to analyse the transactions 
 
