PANAJI: Claiming that all due procedures were followed in drawing the budget and tender process, the water resources department has denied any irregularities in the development of Chapora   

 Reports had emerged alleging that the project cost was sanctioned for Rs 13 crore despite the department’s own estimate of Rs 8 crore. It was also alleged that only two tenders were accepted against the rule of minimum three and there were objections from the office of the principal secretary. 
 
 “The file for the project was submitted for expenditure sanction and a query was raised by then principal secretary (water resources). The query was clarified by the department and the tenders were submitted to the  , headed by the chief secretary, where they were approved. 
 
 There are no rules stating that a minimum two or three tenders have to be received for acceptance. Even circulars for a single tender have been issued by the finance department,” the department said in its official report, adding that the work for the development of the riverfront was started with the approval of the Goa coastal zone management authority (GCZMA), captain of ports and Goa state pollution control board (GSPCB). 
 
 Despite the approvals, the work was halted after the matter was taken to the national green tribunal (NGT) demanding environmental impact assessment (EIA) studies for taking up the jetty portion of the   
 
 Executive engineer D Y Salelkar said that locals had approached the high court in April 2017 requesting only the strengthening of the bund due to fear of flooding. 
 
 “Accordingly, the high court directed the WRD to carry out repairs and improvement of the bund only with the balance work of jetty to be decided after submission of  . 
 
 Only the bund improvement is being continued and EIA studies are being taken up. There is nothing irregular and no cost escalation in the project. Since a part of the project has been delayed, it is proposed to remove the remaining work from the contract. This will further reduce the total cost of the project,” he said.
 
