The merger and acquisition arena in Indian banking has been rather dry due to peculiarities of ownership. But that may be about to change, though at a snail’s pace, as reality begins to bite. The dominant position of the government and community ownership of small private lenders made even the most daring of rainmakers to temper their aggression. Regulatory conservatism has been a stumbling block too.
 
  Now, both the government and the managements may be beginning to think of possibilities of consolidation for different reasons. February 2017 saw some unprecendented events. A young deputy governor of the  , Viral Acharya, sounded the bugle for ending the government largesse to the banks and also talked about merging banks for efficiency. Meanwhile,   is in the last leg of merging five associates with itself nearly 15 years after the first proposal was moved, and there is speculation about Kotak Mahindra buying into  .
  
  Consolidation may happen in three different segments of Indian banking – state-owned, privately managed, and the old private sector community-dominated banks – for three different reasons. The government is no more willing to keep pouring capital into the black hole, equity investors are shunning old private banks with no management vision, and the new-age private ones may be just getting a bit bolder.
  
  “It is not clear why we need so many public sector banks,” says Acharya. “The system will be better off if they are consolidated into fewer but healthier banks. Banks that experienced the worst outcomes received the most capital in a relative sense to get back to the regulatory capital norms. We must not allocate capital so poorly, recreate ‘Heads I win, tails the taxpayer loses’ incentives, and sow the seeds of another lending excess.”
  
  It is a common sight in cities and semiurban areas – three or four state-run banks having branches in close proximity tapping the same customers with similar products. Former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan said the only difference between them is the name board.
  
  Now, the state-run banks need consolidation more than their private peers who are in a better shape financially. Although there is no concrete proposal, there have been murmurs that just four or five big banks may be just enough.
  
  There are 22 state-run banks (including merged SBI) with half a dozen having a capital ratio below the regulator prescribed levels. PSU banks in total have a stressed loan ratio of 12.3%, far higher than their private sector counterparts. FM Arun Jaitley in the last budget allocated a paltry Rs 10,000 crore for banks’ capitalisation. Mounting bad loans make it next to impossible for these banks to lend and grow their business. The only option seems to be to cut costs by shrinking branches, staff and improve on technology.
  
  “The health of the PSU banking sector is appalling,” said Ajay Bodke, CEO, Prabhudas Lilladher. “Don’t look any further. See what is happening in the civil aviation sector with Air India, just look at what has happened in telecom with BSNL and MTNL or in the case of stateowned discoms. So, there are examples galore to prove that the nimble private sector has outsmarted the PSU pack.”
  
  Apart from sliding financial metrics, these banks have been losing market share too. Their share of total deposits fell to 71% at the end of September 2016 from 77% in 2012. Their credit share is at 68%, down from 76%. Many of the banks have such a poor low-cost deposits ratio that they function more like a non-banking finance company.
  
 
  While the government is ignoring a pressing case for consolidation among banks it owned, the private sector appears to be taking a lead in trying to benefit from emerging opportunities, though it is early days.
  Speculation is rife that billionaire Uday Kotak may be eyeing Axis Bank which is more than double its size in many parameters though both lenders have denied such plans.
  
  The combined entity will be the fourth biggest by loans and the sixth biggest by deposits, a report from brokerage Jefferies says. It will be the sixth largest by branches and rank third with regard to staff strength. There are overlaps in business such as mutual fund and investment banking where both have top class franchises. “Mergers work well if you are doing it for a synergy value perspective,” says Shikha Sharma, CEO at Axis Bank. “If you do it for transaction value, most mergers do not pay off. In all our chosen businesses, we have built capability so there aren’t any gaps.”
  
  Uday Kotak, who just concluded the biggest banking takeover with the purchase of  , is not someone to let emotions take the better of him. The lessons of merger like unseen liabilities and bad loans are still green in his memory.
  
  Furthermore, Axis’ franchise may be attractive, but it comes with a baggage of loan book that Kotak despises – infrastructure, steel and metals assets.
  
  “There are some sectors where we have not been comfortable historically like infrastructure, metals, EPC, or a lot of capex related long-term sectors,” says Dipak Gupta, joint managing director at Kotak Mahindra Bank, without referring to Axis. “We had to cut some of that during ING acquisition.”
  
  Even if Kotak is keen on Axis, the govt which through the Specified Undertaking of Unit Trust of India holds the key on whether to sell the 12.02% stake to one shareholder, or swap it for Kotak shares.
  
  While govt may not be keen to swap shares, purchase may be uneconomical for Kotak as its capital may get eroded by as much as 3.5% as risk weight provision. Also, the role of Axis’ board becomes key for success. “The board deliberations at Axis would be more important in case they have received an offer directly from KMB or through the RBI,” says Nilanjan Karfa of Jefferies. “Assuming a fully independent and pragmatic board, they would have to balance the current business potential at Axis, including the subsidiary businesses, the various costs and synergies post-merger.”
  
  
 
  Takeovers and mergers have been a taboo for RBI. It not only discouraged them in the banking sector, it had even prohibited banks’ lending for such deals.
  
  There have been about 19 takeovers in banking since liberalisation began in 1991, and barring a couple, all of them were bailouts for struggling ones rather than for improving efficiency, or for exploiting the synergies.
  
  Its permission to billionaire Prem Watsa to own 51% of Catholic Syrian Bank may be a sign of things to come for the industry. If other struggling lenders like Dhanlaxmi manages to find a strategic investor, the regulator may give a go ahead.
  
  WAYS OF REGULATOR Takeovers and mergers have been a taboo for RBI. It not only discouraged them in the banking sector, it had even prohibited banks’ lending for such deals. There have been about 19 takeovers in banking since liberalisation began in 1991, and barring a couple, all of them were bailouts for struggling ones rather than for improving efficiency, or for exploiting the synergies.
  
  Its permission to billionaire Prem Watsa to own 51% of Catholic Syrian Bank may be a sign of things to come for the industry. If other struggling lenders like Dhanlaxmi manages to find a strategic investor, the regulator may give a go ahead. 
