MUMBAI: The number of chain-snatching cases lodged in the city in 2016 dropped by more than 50% as compared to the previous year, revealed data released by the police.

 As many as 909 cases were filed in 2015 in the city, the figure dipped to 443 last year.
 
 In keeping with the trend, only 21 cases of chainsnatching were lodged in the first two months of 2017, the corresponding figures for 2016 and 2015 were 115 and 142 respectively .
 
 Experts said the government's move to install CCTV cameras in parts of the city is bearing fruit. “However, the surveillance network should be operational with proper maintenance, otherwise it will be of no use if a CCTV camera is not working at a time we need it the most,“ said an activist.
 
 The police had also initiated measures like awareness announcements in crowded places in different languages, preparing a list of regular offenders with their photographs and circulating it to the police stations in the area that are starting to show results. Investigators said that the reason for the decline in cases is also because chain-snatchers are gravitating towards offences like theft where they encounter fewer hurdles.
 
 “Increased police patrolling along with the proliferation of CCTV cameras and the anti-chain-snatching squads are acting as a deterrent,“   commissioner DD Padsalgikar.
 
 “Visible policing with good detection has helped in controlling crime. In many cases the accused use their own bikes. CCTV cameras keep tabs on important traffic junctions, which were once hotbeds of chain-snat chers. The anti-chain-snatching squads are assigned to track and keep records of criminals. Those caught are booked under the robbery section, which means they are locked up behind bars for a longer period,“ said additional commissioner of police (crime) KMM Prasanna.
 
 RTI activist  's wife, Aisha (47), was the target of a thieves on a bike. They yanked her gold chain worth Rs1.5 lakh after which she got dragged a few metres on the main road in Vile Parle east on March 3.“She was under trauma for almost an year after the incident. Now she has overcome that but makes it a point to wear minimum ornaments while going out,“ Afzal told TOI. Former Thane police commissioner SPS Yadav said the spread of awareness among women has brought down incidents of chainsnatching. Besides installation of CCTV cameras and intensified patrolling are an additional deterrent against the robbers, Yadav added.
 
 “The main reason why chain-snatching cases have reduced is the extensive coverage of CCTV cameras.There is no way a thief captured on camera can escape for long. The police seek footage from the CCTV cameras in the vicinity so as to identify the perpetrator,“ said YP Singh, IPS officer turned lawyer.
 
