The music scenario in our city is constantly evolving, but over the past decade or so, independent music has been experiencing a dull phase. For dozens of independent artistes and   in the city, sustaining by making original music only is an uphill task. Even in the age of the internet, where musicians can put up their work online for public viewing, things are not so smooth. Nowadays, musicians who work with established artistes for a project grab all the attention on social media. And once their creations are released online, it garners huge hits.
But what about the ones who don’t have backing or the opportunity to tie up with big names in the music fraternity yet are equally talented? Who will provide a platform for these new and upcoming musicians?
  
  
 So,  , a non-profit venture by Sayok Das, has taken up the responsibility to promote new talent through social media. This one-of-a-kind project —   — allows upcoming bands and   to perform their original compositions. The USP of this project is that it’s a completely unplugged setup with a live shoot — no previous mixing or editing of songs are allowed. The musicians have to give their best at first go since there will be no retakes. There will be around 66 musicians associated with this project and 24 live video shoots of both new and established bands will be done over a period of six months. These will be released on the Facebook page of Creative Roots.
  
  
 Sayok, the brains behind this project, said, “It is a huge challenge that I’ve taken up, but without the constant support and contributions from several senior musicians, putting together this entire thing wouldn’t have been possible. This is a place where music rules.”
  
  
 Renowned musicians who have helped the upcoming talents for this project include  , Koushik Chakraborty, Pata, Lagnajita Chakraborty, Chandramouli Biswas, Kabir Chattopadhyay and  , among others. Drummer of folk band  , Avirup Das or Bunty, as he’s popularly known, has composed the theme music for Creative Roots. “This is a noble initiative by Sayok and will definitely open up several avenues for upcoming musicians. It’s a pleasure for me to compose the theme music for the project and I’m sure we will get a lot of young talent from the city.”
  
  
 The first episode will be released online on August 4 and will see popular band Lakkhichhara, featuring   and John Paul, presenting some peppy original compositions in the rock genre. Other bands that are featuring in this project are Prohor, The Miliputs, Riddles, Alo, Dotara,  , Protyasha, Kolkata Clouds, Kolkata City Gangster, Bodhichitto, Aakhor, Road Roller, Blood, Grooverz and Shnuopoka. There are also plans of shooting a few special episodes by a number of popular city bands.
  
  
 "I’m very happy to be a part of this project. I’ve also sung a song with band Shnuopoka for this initiative. Creative roots is much 
 different from the other web series on music that we see today. here presenting an original composition live with no retakes is the key," said singer Upal Sengupta.
 
  
  
 "Working with so many independent musicians at one place along with their original compositions is a huge challenge. I’m always in support of these types of projects. This is a great initiative," said singer Pata. 
  
  
 "Creative roots is definitely a positive step towards giving exposure to independent musicians and upcoming bands. but this is not just a platform for budding talents, rather it’s a medium to reach a large number of followers," said singer Koushik Chakraborty.
 
  
  
 
