New Delhi: Lieutenant Governor   on Friday appointed 1985-batch   officer   as the next director of  . He will succeed his batch-mate Sudhir Yadav who retired on Friday.

 Kashyap will take charge on October 1, says an order issued by the home department of Delhi government on Friday. Selected from a panel comprising four senior IPS officers, Kashyap will have a tenure of around 15 months before his retirement.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Kashyap said, “It would be a new challenge..something different from what I have been doing in the past few years. I hope to take forward the good work my predecessors have done and bring in some new initiatives during my tenure.” 
 
 An AGMUT cadre officer, Kashyap was appointed the special commissioner of traffic in November 2016. Prior to that, he was posted as the DGP of Mizoram. Kashyap started his stint in police as the ACP of Delhi Cantonment. In 1994, he went to serve on deputation to Mozambique on behalf of United Nations. He later served as DCPs in central district and PCR unit before being posted to Chandigarh Police and CRPF as DIG. In the rank of joint commissioner, Kashyap has served in various units like New Delhi range, southern range, vigilance and provision & logistics.
 
 The race for the next   had narrowed down to three officers at the end. Apart from Kashyap, 1986-batch officers Rajesh Mailk and Nithiyanandam — both posted as special commissioners in Delhi Police — were in the race. 1985-batch officer S N Srivastava, who is heading the high profile Kashmir Zone of CRPF as special DG, was not keen on taking up the job, sources said.
 
 The outgoing DG Sudhir Yadav was appointed to the post in May 2016. At Tihar, Yadav is known for setting examples. 
 
 For the first time, prisoners incarcerated for more than 10 years, who were never visited by their family and friends, were given a furlough to step out of prison and see the world outside. “I wish to give time to my family and social welfare projects,” Yadav told TOI on Friday.
 
