NAGPUR: The newly renovated Shri Mahalaxmi Jagadamba temple at Koradi is all set to receive   in large numbers as nine-day Navratri festival begins on Thursday. The renovation work has created more space in the sabha gruha and garbh gruha to accommodate more people. Nearly 50,000 devotees visit the temple each day during Navratri. “This year, we have extended the space inside the sanctum sanctorum which will now accommodate up to 600 devotees at a time,” says Pankaj Chaudhary, manager of the temple trust. 

 A huge silver canopy has been put up above the deity and the platform on which the idol is mounted has been covered with silver sheets.
 
 Over two lakh devotees visit the temple on the seventh, eighth and ninth day of the festival and the temple committee has made elaborate arrangements for this. “Like every year, we have set up a pandal with medical facilities, drinking water and a police booth to assist the public. The temple trust will distribute prasad of ‘halwa’ every day,” Chaudhary informs. A four-day Koradi Mahotsav will also be organized in collaboration with MTDC. This year, due to lack of space, there will be no akhand jyotis put up in the temple. “Every year we have around 7,000 oil lamps on our premises, but this year there is no space.
 
 In Rana Pratap Nagar, nearly 250 volunteers from the nearby residential areas offer service during the festival at Durga Mandir. “From 5.30am to 11.30pm, volunteers guide devotees, clean and maintain the premises and performing rituals like bhog and arti. We spend around Rs3.5 lakh four mahaprasad which is prepared for 800 people everyday. Besides, 20 priests also perform rituals at the temple for the devotees,” says Shyam Kale, member of the temple committee, and adds that Garba too will be performed on Sunday. 
 
 Devotees have booked space for nine-day jyots at Geeta Mandir. “Every year, we accommodate around 1,700 of them for which we charge Rs701 from the devotees,” says Swami Madhavanand Giri, manager of the temple, and adds that bookings are made two months in advance. A six feet idol of Goddess Durga will also be installed at the huge hall on the temple premises where these jyots are kept. 
 
 The two hundred year old Sahastrachandi Mandir at Badkas Chowk, Mahal, attracts many young devotees who wish to tie the knot at the earliest, but are facing hurdles. “The deity is known for fulfilling the wishes of devotees and many astrologers also refer boys and girls here,” says Gopal Madke whose family has been worshipping the deity three generations. The temple, also known as Brahmacharibua Math, was set up by Brahmachari Maharaj who recited Saptshati Chandika Path a thousand times and performed havan of 100 paths during the installation of the 3ft high idol. “That’s the reason it is called Sahastrachandi temple,” says Madke.
 
 
