THANE: A 29-year-old Kalyan resident, who was sharing a ride on a private vehicle after a drunken revelry on New Year's Eve, was stabbed in Thane allegedly by his   and three of his friends. A police team, which was on night patrol, waylaid the four armed men who were trying to flee.

 The police said that the fight took place over which passenger should be dropped off first.
 
 The deceased, Vikas Upadhyay who worked as a salesman, had attended a New Year's Eve party with his friends at a restaurant in Kapurbawadi locality where they had dinner and downed a few drinks. After the celebration, Upadhyay was waiting for some transport to get home in Kalyan. He hailed a private cab which was picking up passengers. Already , there was one passenger in this cab,  , who was on his way to Mumbra.
 
 From Thane, the two desti nations--Mumbra and Kalyan--fork out in different directions. While Mumbra is located to the southeast of Thane, Kalyan lies to the far east of Thane.
 
 An officer from Kapurbawadi police station said that when Upadhyay told the driver to drop him to Kalyan, Gupta demanded that he be dropped first in Mumbra.
 
 “This sparked a heated argument between the two passengers in the cab. Gupta called up a friend and three of them -Avinash Jaiswal, Suresh Jaiswal and   -joined them. The four, who forced the driver to halt the car, ganged up and attacked Upadhyay ,“ said the police officer.
 
 He said that the four men stabbed Upadhyay on the stomach and face with a sharp object and throttled him. The police said that people who gathered on hearing the commotion intervened to stop the fight. On seeing a crowd gathered at the spot, the four men hailed an autorickshaw, hoping to flee from the spot. However, a patrolling van of the traffic police was alerted and the four men were nabbed.
 
 During that time, some of the people rushed the injured Upadhyay to a hospital in the locality where he was declared dead. Gupta and his three friends were arrested and have been charged with murder.
 
