PANAJI: Going by web searches conducted between February and April 2017, Goa has emerged as the the most preferred destination for both domestic and international tourists in the country, states a Google India report.

 “The Google India report has rightly positioned Goa as the most preferred place in India for tourists. Goa’s natural beauty and bountiful avenues for leisure and relaxation is a very big draw for tourists all through the year. Goa Tourism will continue to make this state a hotspot for tourists in the coming months and years through new innovative products and services, tourism infrastructure projects and add more value to its offerings for tourists,” tourism minister   said.
 
 Thomas Cook India confirmed there was a strong interest in Goa and said bookings for Goa had risen by 15%.
 
 “Goa is increasingly emerging as the preferred destination favoured by consumers all year round and has the highest number of repeat clients than any other destination in the domestic travel segment. With extensive business volumes and revenue coming from MICE and leisure travel, Goa continues to feature as the ideal tourist destination within India,” president and country head of leisure travel and MICE at  , Rajeev Kale, said. 
 
 Amod Thatte, head of product, contracting and innovation at   said, “Goa has emerged as the most preferred holiday destination among Indians this year. With its scenic beauty, beaches and youth-centric atmosphere, the state continues to be ever popular with Indian travelers whether you are with your family, spouse or friends. ‘Goa in the Rains’ is being sold as a domestic package and the state is also rolling out other attractions designed specifically for Indians. Goa is the most preferred holiday destination, accounting for 38% of total bookings (Leisure + MICE) at SOTC, making it an ideal travel destination all year round. For MICE and leisure travel, we are always looking for destinations which offer a combination of great value and a relaxed atmosphere and Goa has gained new importance. ”
 
 
