KOLKATA: Lines were drawn by the hawkers’ union on Sunday and within 24 hours, a couple of them got to know what it meant to breach it. On Monday, the union cracked the whip on two of its own members for crossing the line that’s meant to restrict the   to a third of the pavement.

 Sadhan Das and Nanda Dey, two hawkers who have been running ladies garments stalls on the southern flank of Rasbehari Avenue for the past two decades, were banished from hawking for three days. Their fault: the two had opened their stalls on Sunday evening without curtailing their stall size as advised by the union.
 
 “We were informed that the two had started business at the earlier spots when all other stallowners were busy in restructuring their stalls within the area demarcated by us. We called them to a meeting on Monday and told them that they cannot open their shop for the next three days,” said Debraj Ghosh, general secretary of the Gariahat Indira Hawkers’ Union.
 
 Ghosh added that the disciplinary measure was taken so that it can act as a deterrent for other hawkers encroaching beyond the space allocated to them. “We have also formed a team of four members who will inspect the four hawking zones in Gariahat every alternate day,” he said.
 
 The offenders agreed to comply with the union diktat. “Initially, we were not selling our products but so many customers crowded my shop that I decided to attend them. Today, I have curtailed my shop as advised by the union,” said Dey. Das, just two stalls away, also agreed to comply and accepted the ‘punishment’.
 
 As per the norm stipulated by the union on Sunday, hawking zones in Gariahat were limited to one-third of the pavement and the rest was to be left free for pedestrians. The hawkers were also asked to dismantle the plastic cover above their shops to allow air and light and none of the shops were allowed to put on display their wares outside the limit drawn up with yellow paint.
 
 The first day of restructured hawking in Gariahat was a picture of discipline on Monday, with hawkers moving back their stalls to the edge of the footpath and some even behind it. The pavement in front of Basanti Devi College, the western flank between Golpark and Gariahat and the eastern flank between Gariahat and Pantaloons that was almost inaccessible for pedestrians so long were a lot clearer and pedestrians were soon found walking freely on them.
 
 “It feels good to finally get our right to walk on the pavement. In fact, if the hawkers remain within the space, it is helpful for us to walk around as well as buy stuff from them,” said Piu Goswami, a Kidderp-ore resident and a regular shopper from Gariahat.
 
 Among the hawkers, while some fumed at the curtailed space, most said they were happy with the new arrangement. 
 
 “More people walking on the footpath means more business for us,” said Kartik Chandra Saha, one of the hawkers.
 
 
