City environmentalists are up in arms against a recent   announcement — stating that all state highways are to be expanded into national highways — as it comes in direct conflict with a   (NGT) order and threatens to make the eco-sensitive   even more vulnerable.

 The current state highway linking Pune (Paud Road) and Murud (Raigad district) passes via Tamhini Ghat and is going to be expanded by adding four more lanes to get a national status. But in January this year, the NGT had issued a ban on any construction activity within 10 km of Tamhini wildlife sanctuary and   zone. So, green activists have written a letter to NGT, requesting it to take cognisance of the construction activities that may hamper the biodiversity-rich area.
 
 Rajeev Pandit, founder president of Jividha, a group working for environmental education, told Pune Mirror, “In its order, the NGT has categorically stated that no construction activity is allowed, which is also applicable to concrete road construction. One can imagine the possible damage to the environment because of this huge excavation. The green cover exists on both sides of the road, which is certainly going to be damaged. There are several routes that can be converted into national highways to reach Konkan. Just because this one would be a shorter distance, we cannot compromise with the biodiversity.” Pandit had filed a petition along with fellow environmentalist Dhananjay Shadbale, against which the NGT issued its January order.
 
 The activists have decided to file a fresh petition before the Pune bench after getting a detailed map of the proposed highway expansion. Located 70 km from Pune, Tamhini Ghat and its surrounding forest area are known for its rich biodiversity. The area was declared a wildlife sanctuary in January 2013. The 130-km highway, which begins from Paud Road in Mulshi, is the shortest route to reach the Konkan region. With the expansion, four lanes will be added to the road, which would entail huge excavation and the chopping of several trees along the route. This would naturally disturb the wildlife in the area as well.
 
 Lokesh Bapat, founder of the Tellus Organisation, which works for wildlife conservation, shared, “We have written a letter to NGT to take cognisance of the announcement by the Union ministry, which is contradicting the NGT order. With the status of national highway, other construction activities like petrol pump, food mall and toll plaza would crop up simultaneously, and lakhs of vehicles would destroy the biodiversityrich area, which is a habitat to rare species of birds, plants and animals.” Tree activist Vinod Jain added, “Along with the NGT, we would request the forest department and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to re-consider the proposal for the sake of the environment. The concrete roads would destroy the native wildlife.”
 
 When Mirror queried about the issue with Mahesh Bhavsar, Pune’s range forest officer, he confirmed the development of the proposed national highway from Tamhini Ghat, which is under the forest department’s jurisdiction. “We haven’t received any formal communication yet, but it is expected within a few months. The highway will be passing through the forest land as well as through the sanctuary. The area is declared as eco-sensitive, so before any constriction activities are to be carried out, permission from the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) is mandatory,” said Bhavsar.
 
 But, as far as NHAI is concerned, the highway will be expanded at some point. Suhas Chitnis, project manager of NHAI, asserted, “In the first phase, the Pune-Baramati and Chakan-Talegaon roads will be converted into national highways. The road from Pune to Murud is expected to be constructed in the second phase. We are waiting for the next instruction in this regard.”
 
 
 Ghat flora and fauna
 
 Tamhini Ghat is home to around 28 species of mammals, 150 species of birds (including some endemics) and some rare flora. Apart from animals like wild boars, barking deers and sambars, frogs and snakes, the place is also teeming with lower mammal species like amphibians. Rare medicinal plants like Anona squamosa, Buchanania lanzan, Semecarpus anacardium and Dioscorea bulbifera are present at the Ghat area. Endangered animals like the Indian flying fox, Indian giant squirrel and Nilgiri tahr are also found in the ghat section. Apart from this, it is also habitat to the Lion-tailed macaque, Malabar largespotted civet and the rare Malabar grey hornbill, Grey-headed bulbul and Nilgiri flycatcher.
 
