MUMBAI: To clamp down on pilot   by airlines, the civil aviation regulator has proposed a new set of rules under which commanders who resign from an   without giving a minimum   of a year and co-pilots who quit without a notice of six months might lose their   licence temporarily or permanently.

 Titled ‘Requirement of notice period by the pilots to the airline employing them’, the draft norms have been put under the Civil Aviation Requirement (CAR) by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The CAR pertains to flight crew standards, training and licensing. It has been issued with approval from the civil aviation ministry, said the DGCA draft. 
 
 Pilots labelled the norms   and said they would oppose these tooth and nail.   of Air Line Pilots Association said that pilot unions are going to jointly oppose the rule. “We have already written to International Civil Aviation Organisation and International Federation of Airline Pilots Association about this,” he said. 
 
 The draft rule says: “It has been observed that pilots are resigning without providing any notice to the airlines. In some cases, even groups of pilots resign together without notice and as a result airlines are forced to cancel their flights at the last minute. Such resignation by the pilots and the resultant cancellation of flights causes inconvenience and harassment to the passengers.” 
 
 It said that sometimes such abrupt action by pilots was in the form of a concerted move, which was tantamount to holding the airline to ransom and leaving the travellers stranded. 
 
 “This is a highly undesirable practice and goes against the public interest,” it said, adding that such an action on the part of pilots would attract the provisions of the Aircraft Rules, 1937, which states that the Centre may debar a person permanently or temporarily from holding any licence or rating mentioned in Rule 38.
 
 The notice period of six months may be reduced if the air transport undertaking provides a no-objection certificate to a pilot and accepts his resignation earlier than the requisite notice period of six months, says the draft.
 
 During the notice period, neither shall the pilot refuse to undertake the flight duties assigned to him nor shall the employer deprive the pilot of his legitimate rights and privileges. 
 
 “In case an air transport undertaking resorts to reduction in the salary or perks or otherwise alters the terms and conditions of the employment to the disadvantage of the employee pilot during the notice period, the pilot shall be free to make a request for his release before the expiry of the notice period and the air transport undertaking shall accept his request,” the draft said.
 
 It shall be mandatory for the air transport undertaking to issue an NOC to the pilot on expiry of the notice period of six months, failing which it shall be liable to penal action by the DGCA, it said.
 
