 is arguably the best batsman in the world today (due apologies to   fans). The Australian has a batting average higher than anyone who has ever played the game, except Don Bradman, and in the recent India-Australia Test series, he scored three centuries to emerge as the leading run-scorer. But apart from his run-scoring feats, the series was also a centre of attention due to some unfortunate on-field face-offs and run-ins between players from both the sides. On his recent visit to the capital, the Australian captain spoke to us about the tension that marred the series, and also weighed in about catching up on Brett Lee’s Bollywood debut and captaining MS Dhoni in the upcoming IPL season.

 
 
 We meet Steve at a sportswear store that he is inaugurating in a Saket mall. Even as he enters the store, a small crowd has gathered and cheekily enough, they are chanting Kohli’s name. So it seems only appropriate to begin with a question about his Indian rival. What does Smith have to say about Virat’s statement that “he can no longer call Australian cricketers friends” due to the nastiness in the recently concluded series? Steve replies with a smile, "Virat’s entitled to his opinion on who he likes and wants to be friends with.' But the Australian captain adds that he feels the aggression from his side was totally justified. He says, "I think it was a great series, very well-fought and we played the way we always do – hard and all-out aggressive. Nothing should take away from the fact that great cricket was played by both sides throughout the four games. In the end, India deserved to win because they were the better team."
 
 
 
 With the Test series behind him, the 27-year-old is gearing up for cricket’s richest tournament – the Indian Premier League. Steve will be captaining the Pune team this season and funnily enough, his team will contain two international captains with great pedigree – Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Faf du Plessis. He says, “It’s great to have them in the side. With leaders like MS and Faf in the team, it will be a great help to me. Particularly because MS knows the conditions and grounds here so well, his expertize will be helpful. I really admire MS and he is a lovely man and a great ambassador for our game. It will be a pleasure captaining a side with him in it.”
 
 
 
 Having spent two months in India already and with two more to go with the IPL, has the Sydneysider been introduced to India’s other favourite pastime – Bollywood? The Australian laughs, and replies, "Everyone keeps asking me about Bollywood movies and whether I have watched any and who my favourite actor is. Unfortunately, I haven’t watched any Bollywood film yet and it’s been on my to-do list for a while now, so I’m open to suggestions. Although, I think I’ll start with Binga’s (former teammate  ) debut   and then take off from there." He has, however, developed a liking for Indian food during his stay here. “I love Indian food. The spices are no problem for me. I like the lamb korma that you guys make here.”
 
 
 
 Steve started his professional cricket career as a leg-spinner, who could bat a bit, but nine years later, he has transformed into one of the best batsmen the game has ever seen. He says that the transition from a bowler to a batsman was something he planned consciously. He tells us, "Had someone told me I would have 5,000 Test runs with an average of 61 one day, I’d think they were high on something. After I’d played my first half a dozen Test matches and played in the 2013 Ashes, I realized what my technical deficiencies were and I figured that if I overcame them, I could be a decent bat. That’s when I made a choice to stop bowling and focus on the batting more."
 
 
 
 He might be the most successful contemporary batsman, but his technique has often been described as a coach’s nightmare. His unorthodox stance and unattractive fidgeting across the crease are effective but not something coaches would ask young batsmen to emulate. Steve, however, says, "I feel that as a batsman, you are your own best coach. You have to find what works for you and if you look at it, the best players from around the world all play differently. There is no one approach that works for everyone. As long as you find a technique that helps you score runs, how you look doing that shouldn’t matter. Everyone does it differently, but scoring runs is the most important thing. So, for me, moving back in my crease and unorthodox stance works, and I hope it continues to work."
 
 
