NEW DELHI: Shahbul Haque got more than he had bargained for when he approached an educational consultancy agency in Janakpuri to register himself as a correspondence school student. Having shunned the formal system, but wishing to pass the Class X examination and having paid Rs 5,000 for the purpose, Haque was given instead a degree certificate, a   and a migration certificate. Ironically, the youngster was more miffed than happy — for the certificate not only identified itself as a document from the Intermediate Schooling Council of Education (ICSE, in reality, stands for Indian Certificate of Secondary Education), but also entered his year of passing as over a decade earlier in 2003.

 The aspiring student approached the Tilak Nagar police station on January 23. “Haque had been contacted by Rupesh Kumar after the boy applied on a website to appear for the Class X examination through correspondence,” said Dependra Pathak, joint commissioner, on Thursday. Haque had shelled out Rs 5,000 to register himself on www.indiaicse.in and a further Rs 5,000 for issuance of the documents. 
 
 Smelling a  , a police team led by ACP Aalap Patel track down Rupesh and arrested him from Uttam Nagar. He was soon singing, and the cops had the names of four others involved in the racket. When police reached Bhagalpur in Bihar in pursuit of one of them, they found six fake certificates and Whatsapp messages confirming the transactions related to these.
 
 “This enabled us to file an FIR for  , cheating and criminal conspiracy,” said Vijay Kumar, DCP (west).
 
 The investigation revealed that the quartet ran an elaborate scheme, offering fake marksheets of any university or education board for a price. Someer Kumar, 36, and Rupesh, 27, ran tuition centres and consultancy agencies to lure and trap students. Requests for pass documents were handled by Rithesh Kumar and Mukesh Thakur. If the applicants sought a PhD or MPhil degree, it would be forwarded to Someer in Punjab.
 
 All that hopeful students had to do was register on the website and transfer money to a bank account. The marksheets were quietly couriered to their homes. In the past month, the cops have unearthed the identities of 250 applicants who had deposited money in the foursome’s account in a government bank in west Delhi. They had been provided certificates from universities based in Chandigarh, Bhagalpur and Kanpur, leading police to believe that the institution staff in different states could be on the take.
 
 The investigators think the men have sold over 2,000 certificates since 2014, many of which must have secured government jobs for their buyers.
 
 Mukesh Thakur was picked up from his house in Devli. On his mobile phone, police found photographs of bank receipts and requests for certificates made by aspirants. Thakur confessed that his agents in coaching institutes in small north Indian towns identified the weaker students, who were then tempted with pass certificates through correspondence courses for a payment of around Rs 45,000.
 
 Rithesh Kumar, a resident of Bhagalpur, not only ran a chain of coaching institutes and provided fake school certificates, but he also admitted to delivering MBBS degrees. “So far, Rithesh appears to be the kingpin of the racket, but a probe is on to identify others with whom he must have worked,” said DCP Vijay Kumar.
 
 Additional DCP (West) Sagar Singh Kalsi elaborated that Rithesh had managed most of the work from collecting the personal details of the applicants to getting the certificates designed and printed. “Students who had paid a smaller amount got certificates from unknown private universities,” said Kalsi.
 
 Police suppose university employees provided the racketeers the designs of the certificates and the institutional holograms for them to replicate. Laptops, mobile phones, scanners and printers have been seized. The mobile phones proved a treasure trove of information with names of many of the applicants as well as those of people who dealt with the fraudsters. Police are already following the money trail to get to the bottom of the con game. 
 
 
