NAGPUR: The first batch of   (IIM-N) is in celebration mode after two years of learning, field visits, study tours and facing the unbearable summer heat of Nagpur. Job offers are being celebrated, though the official announcement on placements is yet to be out, and a grand dinner for parents and faculty is scheduled for Thursday night. As the first post graduate programme (PGP) batch prepares to bid farewell, the mood is getting nostalgic. “We are going to cry tonight,” they say.

 On the eve of IIM-N’s first convocation scheduled for Friday, TOI had a chat with the first batch on its bonding with Nagpur, stay at the temporary campus at VNIT, rapport with the faculty and what they didn’t like in these two years. 
 
 “I felt it was safe to go out any time of the day and night in Nagpur,” says   who was comparing the city with her hometown Meerut. 
 
 “The location of our temporary campus was perfect. We got a really good infrastructure ready. It is nice to see so many people coming here for walks. Besides, you can get food even in the wee hours delivered inside the campus,” says Pankaj Shievkar who is from Nashik. 
 
 Devika reveals that on Wednesday night many students were up till 5am celebrating Pankaj’s new job. 
 
 Pankaj adds they never went hungry while study late night. “Our canteen served food till 3am,” he says. 
 
 The students were also thankful to the faculty IIM-A, which mentored the IIM-N. “The professors were unique, knowledgeable and the best in their subject. IIM-A students envied us that we good the best faculty for every subject,” says Devika.
 
 On choosing Nagpur, the students say it was the mentoring by IIM-A that attracted them to IIM-N. “Nagpur is only the place where you have field immersion programme. The batch being small enabled the institute to run this programme,” they say.
 
 Zaigham Ali Khan of Delhi too feels Nagpur is a safe, clean and green city. “It has all the facilities of a big city without having many of the related problems — light traffic, moderate population density etc. Since I come from Delhi, I particularly appreciate how safe the city is at all times of the day.”
 
 But, he says, to attract industries, the city needs to educate and develop it's human capital. “Nagpur seems to be doing well on both these fronts.” 
 
 Aniket Hinge of Amravati says Nagpur is a city on wheels of tremendous development vehicle. “Service sectors can think of it as the goose laying golden eggs. Nagpur's typical Marathi will always keep this city in my memories.”
 
 He adds that there is a variety of things for everyone here. “Food lovers have several options and proximity to Pench, Pachmarhi, Tadoba, Chikhaldhara is enough reason to pack bags and get off for short trips. This city has taught me don't pause ... explore.”
 
 Similarly, Pradeep of Vijayawada says Nagpur has a good scope for development in the coming years. “With the ongoing projects, development is on the rise in Nagpur.”
 
