PATNA: Two major IT firms – Microsoft India and Cisco Systems, Inc. – have expressed their interest to extend support to Bihar for promotion of IT and ITes sector. The two firms submitted letters of intent in this regard to the state government on the concluding day of Bihar IT and ITes Investors Conclave, 2017 here on Thursday. 

 Senior officials in state IT department said Cisco submitted two letters of intent – one to the state IT department and another to the labour resources department and Microsoft submitted one letter of intent to the IT department.
 
 Deliberating on the details of the letter of intents submitted by CISCO, state IT secretary Rahul Singh said, “The letter of intent submitted by Cisco with the IT department talks about extending support in setting up a cyber security lab. They would provide their resources free of cost for running the lab for first five years. Their resource persons would provide three-month training in cyber security at the lab. The state government has proposed to have cyber security expert in every district and we are planning to provide them the required training at the lab of Cisco.”
 
 On the second proposal submitted by Cisco, labour resources department principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh said, “Cisco has proposed to set up networking labs in 5-6 ITIs being run by the state government, where our trainers would be provided free of cost Networking Academy training of Cisco, which are otherwise bit expensive. These trainers would then impart the same training to the students in ITIs across the state.”
 
 Cisco Networking Academy is an IT skills and career building programme comprising 18 courses to prepare students for career opportunities and globally-recognized certifications. As per Cisco India’s official website, the Networking Academy programme delivers online courses in multiple languages, including Hindi, and it is supported by classroom instruction.
 
 Proposals from Cisco apart, the letter of intent submitted by Microsoft talks about providing an incubation platform for budding entrepreneurs. “Microsoft intends to provide its incubation platform or software in Bihar free of cost. We are intending to get it done at an upcoming incubation centre at BIT-Patna,” IT secretary Rahul said.
 
 He added that a proposal had also come from 3M Company, but it would be formally accepted after a few days following few modifications in it. 
 
 “The proposals from Cisco and Microsoft have almost been cleared. The respective departments would now coordinate with the two firms for execution of their respective proposals, following which a formal MoU would be signed,” Rahul said.
 
 
