BHUBANESWAR: The   that emanated from an   relating to Hindu deities has put the focus on   Over the years the nature of crime has been changing - from conventional cases like murder and robbery, to those committed with the help of the internet - and   are in a race against time to learn the new tricks of the trade. 

 "I don't see any prevention mechanism for cyber offences. Easy accessibility to social media and the smartphone revolution have worsened things. Now, the only option left before the law enforcement agency is that they should become tech-savvy and hone their skills to crack such cases," said retired DGP S N Tewari.
 
 But despite the cyber threat, the state government appears unconcerned to address the issue. It is evident from the government's delay in opening the proposed cyber police stations in Bhubaneswar, Berhampur and Rourkela, though announcement of the same was made three years ago. At present, the state's lone cyber police station exists in Cuttack that functions under the state crime branch. 
 
 "We urgently need dedicated police stations to deal with cybercrimes. Though police stations in all districts accept complaints relating to cyber offence, they lack the expertise to deal with such cases. Moreover, cops in regular police stations investigate varieties of cases and attend VIP duties," said a police officer. Given the speed of social media, it is all but natural to expect emergence of more cases of misuse of social media in the coming days, said an expert.
 
 The crime branch said it has already conducted a series of training programmes on cybercrimes for officers of police stations. "Earlier different police stations used to refer cyber complaints to us, citing difficulty in cracking the cases. We, through the help of cyber experts, imparted training to the officers and encouraged them to probe such cases," said special DG (crime) B K Sharma. 
 
 "Realizing the significance of cyber revolution, last week we asked all SPs to connect to people through   and Twitter," DGP Kunwar Brajesh Singh said. "If police take prompt action, it will create a sense of fear among others," said Chandra Sekhar Biswal, an IT engineer and cyber security consultant. 
 
 
