KOLKATA: Kolkata is the only city that played with colours two days on the trot. While a big part of the city played Dol on Sunday, it joined in the rest of the country in playing Holi on Monday. 

 While vehicles largely remained away from the roads on both the days, people with their faces smeared in colours to the extent of being beyond recognition were a common feature throughout Sunday as well as Monday.
 
 Debolina Roy played with colours on Sunday as well as Monday. "We in Kolkata have the rare good fortune of celebrating the festival of colours on two days while the entire country gets the opportunity only on one day. I will make most of the opportunity by playing dol on both days with different sets of friends," said the   resident. On Sunday she played colours with her family and friends in the north Kolkata neighbourhood while on Monday she painted the town red with her college friends. 
 
 Sudder Street, where foreigners throng due to economical accommodation, erupted with colours on Sunday noon. Locals played dol with nationals of several countries visiting the city from various parts of the world.
 
 "I have seen a festival like this for the first time in my life," said Wong Lee, a Chinese national who is putting up in a hotel on  . Early in the morning the staff of the hotel he is staying in took him by surprise by smearing abir on his face. "I did not realise what was happening. Then they explained that it is an Indian festival where they play with colours. I joined in the celebrations too,” said Lee.
 
 While a big part of the city was already smeared with colours, residents of Kankurgachi were preparing for   in the evening. "We will play Holi on Monday after the holika dahan today. There will be a big Holi get together at the big park in Kankurgachi where everybody will play colours together," said Avinash Agarwal, a resident of Kankurgachi off CIT Road.
 
 The trading hub of Burrabazar was smeared with several hues on Monday. The busy stretch wore a deserted look with only people walking from one house to another to extend Holi greetings. Children played with water balloons while elders smeared gulal on each other. “The Holi of Burrabazar is famous in the entire country because it is celebrated with great fervour. We visit each other’s house and smear gulal and exchange sweets,” said Bajrnag Ruia, a resident of Sir Hari Ram Goenka Street in Burrabazar. 
 
