CHENNAI: Plans for the Rs 400-crore  , which promises to decongest   and surrounding areas, take pedestrians underground and become a   and  , is inching towards the final stages on the drawing board.

 Metro rail officials recently presented the master plan for developing the area in front of Central Railway Station at a conference for station redevelopment. Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) will invite tenders in a month for companies interested in further fine-tuning the design and building the Central Square. The authorities are looking at completing the makeover in the heart of the city by mid-2018.
 
 According to the master plan, plots have been allotted for setting up commercial establishments on either side of the entrance to Park suburban station. Designed on the lines of Times Square in New York, it will have space for restaurants, shops, dedicated bays for buses and auto rickshaws bays besides underground parking space and subways.
 
 Last June, the authorities had released an initial plan for large oval-shaped glass buildings at the plaza opposite Central Station, where passengers could shop, eat and enjoy a 360° view of the city. The project is a bringing together of several modes of transport like outstation trains, MRTS, suburban services, metro rail and buses.
 
 The plaza, which is at the core of the project, is intended to be built as a bus terminal with dedicated bays for outstation and MTC buses. The plaza will have restrooms for bus crew and waiting lounges for passen gers. While the dedicated bus bays and parking space will considerably ease the traffic flow on the road, four subways connecting all sides of the area will take the pedestrian crowd underground.
 
 So commuters can take an MTC bus and head towards Koyambedu or just step one level below to the sub way to take the metro to either reach Koyambedu or south Chennai.
 
 But before work begins for Central Square, metro rail officials will get the multi-level underground parking space ready . Anyone with a vehicle will be able to park and go shopping and have a meal at the eateries at the plaza. Spread across 70,000sqm, the parking space will have the capacity to accommodate 4,000 four-wheelers. “Besides getting the Central metro station ready , we are also focusing on constructing the parking lot,“ said a metro rail official.
 
 Work is on in full swing at the Central Metro underground station. After completing the most complex part of the construction -boring the tunnels -metro rail engineers are racing against time to finish the work in the interior part of the station, which consists of three levels.
 
 CMRL wants to open corridor 2 of the metro station by the end of 2017 and corridor 1 by mid-2018, in time for the launch of Central Square.
 
