KOCHI: The Kerala high court has directed Edathala panchayat to demolish the ‘oottupura’ of   temple, situated adjacent to   (NAD) in Aluva. The order was based on a petition filed by the NAD saying that the building was constructed illegally, and on the grounds that it violated safety norms. The court in its judgment on July 12 ordered to seek the assistance of the police, if necessary, to execute the order. 
 
 The work on the 2,000 sq ft ‘oottupura’ on eight cents was completed in February this year at a cost of Rs 25 lakh. “We received the stop memo from the panchayat on January 30. By that time we had completed all the construction work. We only did white washing after receiving the memo. We will appeal against the court order,” said Manoj K Narayanan, who had been serving as the temple priest for the past 22 years. 
 
 The temple was earlier in the possession of Nadathedathu family and was relocated to the current place after they handed over two acres of land to NAD at Rs 18 per cent. Kuzhikkattu Kavu Bhagavathy   later took over the temple. “The responsibility of defence forces is to protect people. We don’t know why NAD is targeting us because of the ‘oottupura’ which is only a singlestorey structure with an aluminium roof,” said Narayanan. “As the NAD had frozen land in 74 survey numbers falling in the safety zone in Aluva east village in 1992 by a notification under Section 3 of the Work of Defence Act, 1903, many people can’t sell land. This has affected families in the area as they can’t sell land for meeting educational expenses of their children. 
 
 We run free tuition class for children at the ‘oottupura’ and around 16 children study there currently,” he said. Meanwhile, the Navy refuted the charges levelled by him. “The NAD had objected to the construction. They constructed ‘oottupura’ without taking no-objection certificate from the NAD. The thing is that people do not have any regard or respect to law and regulation,” said the Navy spokesperson. 
 
 The ministry of defence had issued a guideline in 2016 regarding allowing NOC for building constructions in the vicinity of defence establishments with certain restrictions up to 100m. “The Aluva NAD has not been included in the list of the establishments exempted as per the   issued on October 21, 2016. I had bought 22 cents paying Rs 25 lakh nine years ago. I was not aware of the restrictions that existed regarding construction activities. Now, the land remains unutilized and I can’t sell it,” said R Subash, who retired as commissioner of Employees’  
 
