BATHINDA: A   deferred the decision on the petition of murder accused   to Tuesday. Doda has sought interim bail to go out of jail to file his nomination papers to contest the   Meanwhile, a bench of the Supreme Court on Monday deferred the bail application of Doda to February 6. The election in Punjab is to be held on February 4.

 On January 4, Doda had filed an application in a Fazilka court stating that he wanted to contest the assembly poll from Abohar constituency as an independent candidate and had sought interim bail to go out of jail on January 13 to file his nomination. He had also sought interim bail for his nephew Amit Doda to file papers as his covering candidate.
 
 Doda, along with Amit and 23 others, is facing murder charges for the killing of a Dalit youth Bhim Tank on December 11, 2015. Bhim was brutally killed at Doda’s farmhouse in Ramsara village near Abohar.
 
 On January 4, when the   had announced the schedule for assembly elections, 24 persons, including Akali Dal leaders, had illegally entered Fazilka sub-jail to hold a meeting with Doda to make a plan for the poll. They were arrested after a late evening raid on poll panel’s instructions, who said in the report on the incident that they were inside the prison without marking their entry in the register and had carried their mobile phones in.
 
 Fazilka deputy district attorney Wazir Kamboj said, “The court has decided to take up   on January 10.”
 
 Surinderpal Singh Tinna, counsel of deceased Bhim Tank’s mother Kaushalaya Devi, told TOI, “Doda had applied for bail in the Supreme Court on December 2, 2016. A double bench of the court had on Monday taken up his bail application. We apprised the court that the evidence in the case had not been completed, and he held a lot of influence and could intimidate witnesses if granted bail.”
 
 “We also told the court about the illegal entry of 24 persons in the Fazilka jail to meet Doda. After hearing that, the court deferred the matter to February 6 and directed to complete the evidence of the witnesses,” he added.
 
