NEW DELHI: Justice   is set to head FIFA's governance committee after his name was proposed on Wednesday by the   council during the   currently on in Bahrain. The FIFA Council proposed to the 67th FIFA Congress a list of members of both chambers of the independent Ethics Committee, the Disciplinary Committee, the Appeal Committee, the Audit and Compliance Committee, and the Governance Committee. Each list of candidates will be presented for election to the FIFA Congress on Thursday, each for a term of office of four years which would come into effect immediately.

 The position of the governance chief fell vacant after Miguel Maduro was 'fired'. According to a British newspaper, Maduro was 'fired' over his role in barring Russia's World Cup head from the ruling council of world  's governing body, part of a widespread clearout of executives who have led the organisation's reform efforts.
 
 In March, Vitaly Mutko, chairman of Russia's 2018 World Cup Organising Committee was deemed ineligible to continue on the FIFA council, the 37-member ruling body, because of his position as deputy prime minister in Moscow. That decision was made by FIFA's governance and review committee, chaired by Maduro, a former Portuguese government minister, who had led a clampdown on political interference in football.
 
 Justice Mudgal had been appointed deputy chairman of the governance committee in May 2016 during the FIFA Congress in Mexico. Mudgal has been, involved in overseeing the conduct of international cricket matches and   games at the Ferozshah Kotla Stadium here.
 
 He was also roped in by the Asian Football Federation in a similar capacity.
 
 Meanwhile, FIFA's decision to remove its ethics team was a "setback in the fight against corruption", one of those dismissed, investigator Cornel Borbely, told a press conference in Bahrain on Wednesday. World football's governing body has recommended that Borbely, along with the ethics judge who helped bring down  , Hans-Joachim Eckert, not be re-elected at the FIFA Congress which takes place on May 11 in the Gulf. Borbely also said there were "several hundred cases" of corruption pending. "The removal means nothing else but the end of the reform process," said Borbely. "The ethics commission is the key institution of the FIFA reforms. "We could bring back some trust in FIFA, the ethics committee... was the role model for the whole sports world.
 
