Nagpur: Janmanch, a social organization, has exposed inferior quality work in Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Rs324 crore cement concrete road project-II. Even guardian minister Chandrashekar Bawankule has expressed displeasure over the defects pointed out by the NGO. On the lines of the ‘Sinchan Shodh Yatra’, Janmanch has launched public audit of cement roads being constructed by NMC under cement concrete road project-II. The project was sanctioned by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and is funded by the state government, NMC and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT). On Monday, the Janmanch team led by president Anil Killor, who is also president of High Court Bar Association (HCBA), inspected cement road works done on West High Court (WHC) Road between Law College Square and Ladies Club Square. The stretch was the first among 18 packages taken up for construction. As he happened to be passing by the stretch, Bawankule too stopped and joined the public audit. He also called municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal to the site. Killor told TOI the road has been damaged within two months of construction despite its life being 30-50 years. “Cracks have developed in many areas on the main cement road. Inter-locking tiles laid on main stretch between MLA Hostel Square and Jawahar Hall have come off in some places. The level of the road is not proper, with tiles laid on the road sides improperly,” he said.  Killor added, “The blocks used is road divider are of bad quality. Cement used in construction is also of low quality. Cement is coming loose even if hit by the hand at some places. Sewage and storm water drain network is also not proper. Bungalows and residences on both sides of the roads are likely to face waterlogging during monsoon.” Killor added Janmanch will inspect the remaining roads of the project under the public audit drive. “We are not technical persons, but still pointed out inferior quality works. NMC engineers are experts in this field. The question is why the engineers could not see inferior quality works,” he questioned. The official residence of the municipal commissioner is also on this stretch. Cracks and shoddy works were also apparent right in front of his bungalow. Bawankule later told TOI directives have been given to the civic chief to ensure third party audit of the works before release of payment. NMC executive engineer Mahesh Gupta said notice has already been issued to private contractor JP Enterprises over some faults on the road. “NMC is always open for suggestions from public and social organizations. Work is yet to be completed, and everything will be thoroughly checked. Paver blocks were laid on a stretch since the road had to be opened for winter session. The stretch will be concretized once the bridge work is completed. Damaged paver blocks at MLA Hostel Square and other places will be replaced. Defect liability period of road is five years, so we will ensure all these works are done by the contractor on his own. We have released only Rs3 crore as on date to the contractor,” he said. Gupta added VNIT was designing consultant and Geotech Services was responsible for quality control, so no issues of inferior quality will remain after completion of works. Killor also said Janmanch will take a block from the cement concrete stretch and get it tested. “We submitted a letter to NMC on April 29, requesting permission for core cutting to take sample for test and also assign engineers for the public audit. NMC neglected the letter. We will ensure testing of quality once we get the permissions,” he said. Janmanch members Sharad Patil, Pramod Pande, Naresh Kshirsagar, Ram Akre, Ramesh Borkute, Prakash Itankar, Amitabh Pawde, Manohar Radke, Kishor Gulane, Mohan Pandey, Pramod Ramekar, Ashok Kamdi and others were present.