Shimla: While saying that the UPA government has provided only Rs 20,000 crore, leader of opposition Prem Kumar Dhumal claimed that the BJP led NDA government at Centre would provide Rs 1.25 lakh crore to the hill state. He said that the UPA government has taken special state status of Himachal Pradesh but after coming to power, PM Narendra Modi had restored it.

 While addressing a public meeting in Hamirpur, Dhumal said that construction of Bhanupalli-Bilaspur-Manali-Leh rail that remained shelved during UPA regime also gained momentum under Modi government. He said that earlier transporting battle tanks to Leh by air used to cost lot of money but now process has been started to lay the rail line on which Rs 16,500 crore would be spent.
 
 He informed that rail line would be laid from Bhanupalli connecting Mandi, Kullu, Manali and Leh. He said that narrow gauge rail line between Pathankot and Jogindernagar would also be converted into broad gauge and would be connected at Mandi with the Leh rail line. He said this would not only save the environment but would also ensure speedy transportation of military equipments to border areas.
 
 Dhumal said that had this strategically important rail line project gained momentum during previous Congress regimes. The cost of construction could have been much lower. He said that already Rs 390 crore has also been approved by the Modi government for the construction of Chandigarh-Baddi rail line.
 
 “We had already announced in past that when Leh rail line would be completed, then a rail line passing through the middle of Himachal Pradesh would connect Kalka-Bilaspur-Hamirpur-Ranital and Kangra and now this will be a reality soon,’ he said. He further said that due to the efforts of Hamirpur MP and Modi government, days are not far when trains for Delhi would be available from Hamirpur.
 
 He said that earlier people used to visit Himachal Pradesh for eternal peace but now the state has lost its reputation due to rampant use of liquor and drugs. He said that the Congress government has failed to act effectively against liquor and drug mafias in the state.
 
 He said that election would be announced in the state in a month’s time then why is the Congress government is laying foundation stones. He said that without any design or planning, new projects are being announced.
 
 
