Nagpur: In the cotton country of Yavatmal, which goes with the tag of ‘epicentre of farmer suicides’, a new crisis has assumed alarming proportions. In the last three weeks at least nine farmers or farm labourers have died after accidentally inhaling toxic fumes while spraying pesticides. The cotton crop, though genetically modified Bt variety that is supposed to be pest resistant, is infested with pink bollworms and requires regular spraying of pesticides. Doctors at Vasantrao Naik Government Medical College confirmed that at least 60 patients showing symptoms of poisoning were under treatment at the hospital, of them 20 were in intensive care unit (ICU) in precarious condition. Officials at the hospital also confirmed at least 160 patients got treatment for toxic inhaling this month and over 300 in the last three months. “Right now, around 60 such patients are getting medical attention,” said dean of the college Dr Ashok Rathod. He said it was unusual to have such large number of patients. The wards are overflowing with them,” he added. Dr Manish Shrigiriwar, head of forensics department at the hospital, confirmed at least six deaths by pesticide poisoning in the last two weeks. While Dr Rathod confirmed five deaths and three cases of farmers complaining of impairment of vision due to fumes caused while spraying on crops. The district collector’s office was yet to get definite information. Resident district collector Narendra Fulzele said that after a farmers delegation registered complaint on Monday, the administration started an enquiry into the matter. On Tuesday, the collectorate wrote to civil surgeon and district health officer to assess the situation and file data within two days. GMC authorities have also been asked on casualties by poisonous fumes. The situation got some official attention only after Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission, the task force on farm distress, took it up . The task force head Kishore Tiwari had warned almost a month ago that Bt cotton crop was no longer immune to pest attacks and it could lead to heavy use of pesticides. Dr Rathod told TOI that if proper protective gear was not used and precautions not observed, those carrying out spraying operations in farms could be in for trouble. Serious cases of breathing trouble leading to cardiac arrests and spot deaths could not be ruled out, he said.  “Farm workers use bare hands to spray and do not even wear masks or protective clothing. Pesticides added with stickers are more dangerous as they harm the skin,” Dr Rathod said adding that it affected the lungs if inhaled. Head of ‘Better Initiative on Cotton’ Rajiv Baruah said generally farmers anywhere were not aware of protective gear to be used whiloe applying pesticides. “They were exposed to toxic chemicals across India,” he said. He added his organization, an international NGO, was working in Vidarbha and other parts of Maharashtra to create awareness about it among farmers. The worst affected area is in Maregaon taluka where, thanks to black cotton soil and irregular rains this year, cotton plants experienced excessive vegetative growth rising up to five feet or more. Spraying on them becomes hazardous as it is close to nose level of the worker. “Of the nine deaths till date, four are from villages in Maregaon,” said farm activist Rajkumar. Maregaon and Arni, from where large number of such cases are being reported, are part of Union minister of state for Home Hansraj Ahir’s constituency. Alarmed by reports in media, Ahir has already written to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis seeking quick state intervention to check the crisis.