VISAKHAPATNAM: The Union government is to set up a dialysis centre on a public-private partnership (PPP) mode under the Prime Minister’s Dialysis Yojna at Uddanam in Srikakulam for the kidney-affected people there, Union health minister Jagat Prakash Nadda said. 

 A special team would also be sent to find the causes of kidney ailments. Also, just like   card, central government employees would get health cards, he said.
 
 The Union health minister was in the port city on Monday to inaugurate the   (CGHS) Wellness Centre at Chinawaltair. He said specialist doctors would be appointed under the pilot project. Online health cards would be given to central government employees from May this year. Pregnant women would also be given free medicines till delivery as well as transportation facility. Under the scheme 12 kinds of vaccinations would be provided to neo natals, including pneumonia, diarrhoea and rota virus.
 
 “Apart from these, an AIIMS has been planned for Mangalagiri in AP and cancer institutes would be set up in 20 states including one in the state. A Centre For Alternative Medicines would be set up in one campus. The central government is allotting Rs 4 crore for medicine and Rs 2 crore for cancer medicines alone,” informed Nadda.
 
 Situated near Government Hospital for Mental Care Visakhapatnam, the Wellness Centre will cater to an estimated population of about 80,000 serving and pensioner beneficiaries. Vizag is the 30th city with CGHS. There are around 30.8 lakh beneficiaries across India and that includes about 10 lakh pensioner beneficiaries.
 
 The facilities provided under CGHS include outpatient care through a network of   (278), AYUSH Wellness Centres (85) and diagnostic facilities and indoor treatment through empanelled private hospitals (nearly 1,000 hospitals and diagnostic centres, eye clinics and dental clinics).
 
 Meanwhile, AP health minister Kamineni Srinivas said the trauma care centre at   (VIMS) would be inaugurated on Sankranti while the gynaecology and paediatric wards would take off by February.
 
 Union minister   said a separate railway zone in Vizag would be set up soon and Visakha-Chennai corridor would become a reality
 
 
