NAGPUR: “Good surgical skills are not enough these days, doctors need to develop counselling skills to avoid attacks by patients’ relatives as such incidents happen every now and then. Doctors need to change their attitude. They need to possess skill by which the patient and relatives immediately feel comfortable,” Dr  , a Rajya Sabha member, said.

 Mahatme was speaking at the installation ceremony of Nagpur Obstetric and Gynaecological society (NOGS) where Dr Chaitanya Shembekar took over as the president and Dr Wardha Dhawale as the secretary. The event was held at a city hotel on Sunday
 
 ‘She Matters … Care, Educate and Transform’ is the theme of   and   (FOGSI) this year and ‘Stop Jousting’ is the theme of NOGS. There are nine more FOGSI units across Vidarbha. 
 
 In a unique move taken by the new NOGS team, presidents and secretaries of all the 10 FOGSI units came together at a common forum.
 
 An year ago NOGS began the project 'Udaan' for counselling and imparting sex-education to school girls. Since the inception of the project, the   team has visited 28 schools covering more than 5,000 girls. 
 
 Former President Dr Anuradha Ridhorkar and the former secretary Dr Shilpi, under whose tenure the project was carried out, were also present on the dais.
 
  President elect Dr Kanchan Sortey, vice president Dr Manish Baheti, treasurer Dr Kshama Kedar, joint secretary Dr Sangeeta Tajpuriya, joint treasurer Dr Archana Kothari, clinical secretary Dr Rajesh Gajbhiye, FOGSI representative Dr Smita Deole and AMOGS representative Dr Vaishali Kubde were also present.
 
 Nagpur: It’s been one year since Nagpur Obstetric and Gynaecological society (NOGS) began the project 'Udaan' for counselling and imparting sex-education to school girls. The Udaan team visited 28 schools covering more than 5,000 girls. It was announced at the NOGS installation ceremony of the new team where Dr Chaitanya Shembekar took over as the president and Dr Wardha Dhawale, as the secretary.
 
 Rajya Sabha MP Dr Vikas Mahatme installed the new team. Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI) secretary Dr Hrishikesh Pai was the guest of honour. The ceremony took place at Hotel Centre Point, Ramdaspeth. Former President Dr Anuradha Ridhorkar and the former secretary Dr Shilpi, under whose tenure the project was carried out, were also present on the dais.
 
 Dr Mahatme said, “Having good surgical skills are not enough these days, doctors need to develop counselling skills to avoid the relative-attack taking place every now and then. There need to be a change in attitude of doctors. They need to possess skill by which the patient and relatives immediately feel comfortable, just by the communication with the doctor.”
 
 The theme of FOGSI this year is ‘She Matters … Care, Educate and Transform’ and theme for NOGS is ‘Stop Jousting”. NOGS are a part of the parent body FOGSI. There are nine more FOGSI unit across Vidarbha. In a unique move taken by the new team of NOGS, presidents and secretaries of all the 10 FOGSI units came together at a common forum, soon after the ceremony ended.
 
 Other members of the team include the president elect Dr Kanchan Sortey, Vice President Dr Manish Baheti, treasurer Dr Kshama Kedar, joint secretary Dr Sangeeta Tajpuriya, joint treasurer Dr Archana Kothari, clinical secretary Dr Rajesh Gajbhiye, FOGSI representative Dr Smita Deole, AMOGS representative Dr Vaishali Kubde.
 
