Mangaluru: There were several protests and demands seeking a fair probe into the death of teenager Kavya Poojary, a student of Alva’s Education Foundation, Moodbidri. Several organisations have alleged that death of the promising badminton player was not suicide but suspected foul play.

 Kavya, a SSLC student from Kateel, had joined Alva’s High School on June 20. She was found hanging in her hostel room on July 20. “It is impossible for a strong and determined athlete to take such an extreme step. The institution has cited low marks in the Hindi internal exam as the sole reason for her taking the extreme step, but this is not the truth,” Sahana Kunder Sooda, member, Biruver Kudla, an association of the community to which Kavya belongs, alleged.
 
 “Though her hostel and parents’ house is just 30 minutes away, institution officials have not allowed them to see her body and haven’t taken proper legal measures needed during a suicide. When her parents arrived at the spot, her body was already in the mortuary. This arouses strong suspicion about her death,” she told reporters on Saturday.
 
 A day before her suicide, Kavya spoke normally with her parents mentioning that her physical trainer wanted her to come for practice at 4.30am and she expressed her inbility to do so. When Kavya’s mother asked her if she needed an alarm clock to wake her up, she refused the offer, asserting she would try and attend the training on time.
 
 “The institution has repeatedly said that they don’t have any practice session at that time and it only starts after 6am. It tried to hush it up, claiming she may have been told 4.30pm and mistook it for 4.30am. Video footage shows Kavya going outside the campus and there is no footage of her returning. The college should explain where the sari used for committing suicide came from and police should interrogate those who brought her body down. There so many flaws which led us to think it was not suicide. The case should be handed over to the CBI,” Sahana added.
 
 Claiming that police have not done any photo mahajar of the body, which is mandatory in suicides, she demanded that physical trainer Pravin Kumar be interrogated thoroughly and institution chief M Mohan Alvas shouldn’t shield anyone. “We will continue our fight till justice is given to our Tuluva girl Kavya and such an incident shouldn’t occur anywhere,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, the Akhila Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishath (ABVP) protested in front of the DC’s office on Saturday and urged police and district administration to conduct a fair probe. “At the outset, it looks like an unnatural death and it happened in a prestigious institution. We demand a fair probe,” they said. ABVP, Bajrang Dal members submitted a memorandum to the DC demanding a fair probe.
 
 Ready for fair probe: Mohan Alva
 
 Mohan Alva, chairman, Alva's Education Foundation, expressed readiness to face any investigation into Kavya’s death. “The administration is completely transparent. Unnecessarily, our institutions are being targeted by misusing the suicide by Kavya. Never in the history of our institution has any murder happened. If police, media or individuals want to investigate this suicide from any angle, we are prepared to face it,” he said.
 
 He said that when a crime happens, police investigation needs to be conducted. Creating confusion in the minds of the general public by spreading false information, and inflicting mental torture on him and Alva's group of institutions is unjustified. The parents of 26,000 students have reposed trust in us, he added.
 
 In an interview to a news channel, Alva said they had shifted body in a hurry as the hostel accommodates thousands of students and they were preparing for exams. Kavya had no problem on campus. “I have asked coach Pravin not to come for practice for some days. I won’t shield a single person,” he told the channel.
 
 ACP to probe case
 
 Following a representation from Kavya’s parents, police commissioner T R Suresh has ordered a probe by assistant commissioner of police (north sub-division) D S Rajendra.
 
 Kavya’s father Lokesh Poojary raised doubts about the death. “He said Kavya was lively when she spoke to them over phone the previous night. She had even called her family members to the hostel on July 29 for lunch at the mess. Her death the next evening shocked them. Parents have also questioned the move to shift Kavya’s body immediately to the mortuary,” Suresh said.
 
 
