CHANDIGARH:   has recommended   against four IAS officers in the Rs 25-crore Mahatma Gandhi National Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS)   between 2007 and 2010.

 The officers are Faridabad deputy commissioner  , managing director in Haryana federation of cooperative sugar mills Mohammad Shayin, Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Sumedha Kataria and director of women and child development department Renu Phulia. Lokayukta Justice (retd. Nawal Kishore Agarwal pronounced the verdict on Friday after finding that the state government was shying away from initiating action against them.
 
 Registrar of Lokayukta office too had recom mended criminal action against them in January 2016 Justice Agarwal has sent his recommendations to chief his recommendations to chief secretary DS Dhesi for initiating criminal action against these officers. The verdict came on a petition moved by Panipat resident PP Kapoor.
 
 Srow and Shayin were posted as Ambala deputy commissioners during this period while Kataria and Phulia were additional deputy commissioners. The probe had detected embezzlement in schemes meant for developing nurseries, herbal parks, afforestation and construction of pathways in rural areas.
 
 The report submitted by registrar of Lokayukta office, SS Lamba, in January last year, reads, “In case of these IAS and HCS officers, there has been considerable delay in departmental action." The report further reads, “If the investigating officer is of the view that there is criminal conspiracy by these officers and other employees, who have already been booked, they too deserve to be interrogated and joined as accused.“
 
 The vigilance bureau report in 2012 had mentioned flouting of rules by IAS and HCS officers while releasing funds to the district forest officers. Out of total allocation of Rs 46.04 crore, Rs 25.13 crore was released without approval.
 
  On the basis of this re port, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had in Janu ary 2015 directed registration of FIR against nine forest of ficers, but remained silent in case of IAS officers. 
 
 The FIR was registered on January 27, 2015, under prevention of corruption Act and other sections of Indian Penal Code against then Ambala divisional forest officer Jagmohan Sharma, Ambala range forest officer Gokul Sharma, Naraingarh range forest officer Rajesh Rana, Saha range forest officers Prashant Sharma, Vinod Kumar, Lakshman Das and Deepak Alavadi; deputy superintendent in DFO office Chander Mohan, assistant to then accounts officer in the office of chief conservator of forest at Panchkula Surender Kumar Nagar.
 
