BATHINDA: In a surprise move, murder-accused liquor contractor   has lent support to   from Abohar assembly constituency. Lodged in Amritsar central jail, Doda had filed nomination papers on January 13 from Abohar constituency in Fazilka district as an independent candidate after getting interim bail from the court to submit his papers.

 After SAD-BJP leaders on Friday reached Doda’s election office, his brother   and son Gagan Doda assured support to the BJP candidate. They announced that Doda would withdraw his nomination papers on Saturday.
 
 The family also started campaigning for Narang on Friday. Contesting as an independent candidate in the 2012 assembly elections, Doda got 45,825 votes.
 
 Doda is under arrest for the killing of 25-year-old Dalit youth Bhim Tank at his farmhouse in Ramsara village near Abohar on December 11, 2015. The issue reached Parliament after Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) met the victim’s family. “We have a one-point agenda: to defeat Congress candidate Sunil Jakhar. For that we have decided to support BJP nominee Narang to avoid splitting anti-Jakhar votes. We have started campaigning for BJP-SAD. My brother will withdraw his candidature on Saturday,” he said.
 
 BJP candidate Arun Narang confirmed this. “We have got big support with the Doda family standing by the BJP. Now, our journey to victory will become easy,” he said.
 
 Doda’s brother said Narang had come along with SAD-BJP leaders and workers to their poll office on Friday, and he assured them complete support.
 
 On the evening of January 4, 24 persons, including leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), were found meeting Doda illegally in the office of the Fazilka sub-jail deputy superintendent   to plan for elections.
 
 Later on January 18, SAD-BJP leaders had met Doda on the court premises at Fazilka when he had come to appear in the Tank murder case. Tank’s mother Kaushalaya Devi said, “We will not sit back till Doda is punished for masterminding the brutal killing of my son.”
 
 On the other hand, Congress candidate Jakhar said Doda’s support to BJP would not matter. “It makes no difference whether Doda is in fray or supporting the BJP candidate. Congress will defeat the unholy alliance of SAD-BJP and the liquor mafia,” he said.
 
 
