SHIMLA: While the internal conflict between Congress leaders right before the assembly polls has left party workers in a tizzy, chief minister   on Sunday denied any such rift within the party ranks. He said that Congress is prepared for the polls and would seek votes in the name of development of last five years.

 He made the declaration while addressing a public meeting at Chirgaon in Rohru constituency of Shimla district. He said that in the upcoming elections, the people of the constituency should not be lured by false promises and propaganda of opposition parties. “Many seasonal leaders will make false promises and try to divide people on regional or communal lines but it is the people who will thump their concealed motives in elections,” he added.
 
 Earlier, BJP launched ‘Hisab Mange Himachal’ under which it has alleged that drug mafia has prospered in Himachal and is protected by the state government. It has claimed that around 40% of youth in Himachal have been victims of drug abuse and the situation has worsened under Congress rule. Drug peddlers have been selling drugs to children in the vicinity of school. BJP values drug trade in the state at around Rs 900 crore.
 
 Virbhadra Singh countering the drug issue said that it was a global problem. “Not only India but other countries too are facing the drug menace. A strict vigilance for netting those who are supplying these fatal drugs was being carried out,” he further added.
 
 He discussed the tourism development in Rohru sub division. “Chanshal is known for its ski slopes which are one of the best in the world. The government will soon ink pacts with agencies to develop the project,” he stated. He said that Himachal offers all tourism activities, whether it is skiing, water sports or adventure sports.
 
 “It still has a vast untapped tourist places for pilgrims to visit and we are providing all amenities to the sector,” Virbhadra said
 
 “Apart from this vacation spots in rural areas are also becoming popular and the government has invited private parties to invest in this sector,” he added.
 
 He said that opposition parties have often criticized him for inaugurating educational institutions.
 
 “I fail to understand why these people (opposition) do not want next generation to be literate. As of today all the 54 new colleges opened under present regime have been notified taking the cumulative strength of colleges to 132. Only two others are yet to be notified,” he iterated.
 
 He said that Bamsan water scheme, one of the biggest water suppliers was sanctioned and commissioned by the Congress government in Hamirpur district catering needs of 214 villages of 44 Panchayats. The project was a great boon for people of Hamirpur who earlier conserved water by locking ‘Khatris’ (the traditional water resources).
 
