MUMBAI: The Directorate of   Education and Research has declared around 750 medical   ineligible and weeded them out from the admission process. The provisional merit list that was drawn up for 50,600 candidates before the   issue cropped up was scrapped and a new list was released with 49,800 candidates.

 TOI had exposed how hundreds of candidates had applied to multiple states under the merit quota, seeking seats as local students in government colleges and to 85% seats in private institutes too.
 
 The students were called by   with their original   but they failed to produce their class X and XII certificates from Maharashtra. The noose will tighten on many others. In addition, a second list of 396 candidates who have not taken class X from the state but sat for the class XII from Maharashtra was also released. Questioning the authenticity of their domicile, copies of their documents will be sent to the collector.
 
 DMER, which was to release the first seat allotment list on Tuesday, pushed it till the domicile matter is cleared and it is now likely to be out on Wednesday night. DMER will also file an appeal in the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court that day demanding that only students who have cleared their X and XII and hold a domicile from Maharashtra be considered eligible as state students.
 
 The HC order may alter the entire process. Data from DMER revealed that 48,977 candidates have not appeared for class X from the state but took the class XII exam. At the same time, an almost similar count of 49,768 students have taken class X and XII from the state.
 
 The bench had granted a concession and ruled that students who did not take the class X exam from the state but took class XII from Maharashtra and have a domicile certificate would be considered as state students. Medical aspirants had moved the Supreme Court against this, and they were directed to file a review petition. The state joined the students in filing an appeal to the earlier order. “This should have happened earlier,” said Rajesh Jain, member of the Parents’ Association of Medical Students, Maharashtra. 
 
 “We have made a list of students who have not taken class X from our state but have domicile certificates,” said DMER head Dr Praveen Shingare. “We will take copies of documents they have submitted and send them to the collector to find out how they have been issued domicile certificates.”
 
 Domicile is issued to those who have continuous stay of at least 15 years. “While parents were suspecting candidates were taking class XII as private external candidates, or database shows that all 396 students who have been enlisted have taken class XII as regular students,” said DMER officials. 
 
 But there is also a list of 1,300 candidates from the defence category who are eligible to apply in two states. And 100 students are from the Maharashtra/Karnataka border.
 
 ‘Eligible subject to document verification’
 
 Close to 48,977 students, who as per DMER data have not appeared for class X from the state, have been star-marked with a post-script that reads: Eligible subject to document verification. Many of the students claimed they had pursued class X and XII from Maharashtra but had merely chosen more than one state when they applied for admission under the all-India quota seats.
 
 
