W ith hit numbers like Sau Asmaan that won her a Filmfare Award, Kheench Meri Photo, Jiya Re, Ishq Wala Love and the more recent Bawra Mann from Jolly LLB 2 to her credit,   has made a name for herself as a singer. Her career kicked off after winning a reality show in 2003 and as fate has it, she is now a mentor in a popular singing reality series. In a chat with Hyderabad Times, Neeti talks about her work, memories of the city and how it is to be a judge with music biggies. Excerpts: 

 
 
 (Laughing) Trust me, the song was erased completely from my mind by the time it was set to release. Actually I recorded the song almost a year ago. Chirantan told me that he would let me know if the song gets finalised, because they were still trying to fit it into the movie. After that I think he forgot to inform me. And suddenly two days before the song was about to release, I get tagged on social media that ‘Bawra Mann is releasing in Jubin and Neeti’s voice’. I was baffled! I called Chirantan and asked, which song is this and he cracked up. Only after he reminded me the tune I was like, ‘OMG, of course I sang this song.’ (laughs)
 
 
 
 Working with Rahman sir is always a pleasure and to sing for him an honour. He gets the best of every vocalist because he just knows how to make them sing differently. There’s no match for his passion and dedication. Rahman sir was in LA when I was recording Jee Lein. He video called me to instruct me on how to do the song. We were recording and mailing parts to him and he would call us back with changes. He tried two different versions and then okayed the second. This was all happening dead in the night. Such is his dedication and involvement.
 
 
 It’s so much fun! It’s my second time as a mentor on a television show. And the experience becomes unforgettable when you are teamed up with such amazing people. Benny is a very good friend. I have worked with Shaan for a kids reality show last year. He and Salim are seniors, but they treat me like a friend, as equals.
 
 
 
 Hyderabad is such a music loving place. It’s always good to be here. But it’s not just that. I have so many memories that make Hyderabad special for me. One of my best friends used to live here and I accompanied her home during our vacation. Those days my trips to the city used to be all about getting to know the South Indian traditions that her family followed, enjoying the food that her mother made, long drives around the city and doing college work together... I really miss those days.
 
 
