KOLKATA:   has written to private practitioners and healthcare centres in the city directing them to follow national guidelines for the treatment of dengue. The   as heavy downpour in the last three days has stoked fear of vector-borne diseases in the city. The rainfall has led to waterlogging in some parts of the city which experts fear will become breeding ground for mosquitoes.

 In Behala and parts of EM Bypass, which are dengue-prone areas, long queues can already be seen in front of the dengue detection centres.
 
 The health department has sent a detailed guideline issued by   to private hospitals and nursing homes asking the management to follow it strictly. A copy of the guideline has also been sent to private practitioners, asking them to abide by the treatment protocol issued by the Union health ministry. 
 
 Learning from last year, when dengue threatened to become an epidemic claiming more than 70 lives in and around Kolkata (though the official death toll stood at 29 till July), KMC did not want to take chances and decided to undertake an early drive against the dreaded disease this year, simultaneously educating city doctors on the treatment protocol.
 
 The civic body has also fixed certain criteria for admission of a patient. “If a patient diagnosed with dengue has significant bleeding from any site, signs of hypotension, persistent high-grade fever, rapid fall of platelet count and sudden drop in temperature, he or she should be admitted,” it said. 
 
 The guideline has also set clear rules about platelet transfusion — under no circumstances should a patient be considered for platelet transfusion if the count is not lower than 10,000/cu.mm and there are no bleeding manifestations. “There is a misconception among a section of city’s private practitioners about platelet transfusion. If platelet is given to a dengue patient who does not require it, it will adversely affect their condition,” said  , advisor to the health department.
 
 The health department has also asked private hospitals and nursing homes for detailed treatment procedure of dengue patients every week. “We need patient details to undertake regular drives in the affected areas,” said  , member, mayor-in-council overseeing the health department.
 
