KOLKATA: Weekdays have rarely been as happier as this Thursday when thousands of people, from Sonarpur to Howrah and from infants to the elderly returned to   for the second edition of   2017. They played, sang, danced, ran, clicked selfies, gave Facebook check-ins and were visibly ecstatic as they unanimous chanted for more days of this morning carnival.

 “It’s a pain to wake my son at 6 in the morning and get him ready for school. But today, he was up all by himself at 5.30 and by 6am, he was already prepared to leave home with the cricket bat. We wish the event continues for few more days,” said Sonam Garg, who had come with her six-year-old daughter and 10-year-old son.
 
 Equally excited was Agamveer Singh, a Class VIII student who had come from Anandapur. “Happy Streets allows us to play on the road. It should continue at least for a few more weeks,” said Singh.
 
 Thursday was the first time that TOI organized the annual event on a weekday as it had coincided with the   of Swami Vivekananda, a state holiday. Schools and government offices were closed but several private offices and business establishments were open. However, so overwhelming was the response that many office-goers were stunned by the turnout.
 
 “I had never thought so many people would come on a weekday. I am actually taken aback,” said   resident Animesh Chatterjee, who had come to drop his wife and two children at the event and head for his office at Camac Street.
 
 Among those in the group there were several familiar faces, including former chief electoral officer Sunil Gupta and state additional chief secretary Debashis Sen. They enjoyed a leisurely walk, occasionally stopping over to admire kids drawing on the road or someone showing stunts on roller skates and cycles.
 
 Officers of Bidhannagar City Police, who had been the backbone of the event, were happy with the response and the way people came to their stall and wanted to learn from items they had on display. “We made people aware of how breathalysers work and why people need to wear a helmets and seatbelts. This is something we don’t come across in other awareness drives,” said an officer present at the event. 
 
 Happy Streets is a TOI initiative in association with Bidhannagar City Police. The vibrant and colourful event in Salt Lake is presented by Shyam Steel.
 
 
