Malihabad’s   orchards are a laboratory in themselves. Mango varieties develop and grow naturally here—some of them perish, some are kept aside for self-consumption by connoisseurs while some others are taken to the market for sale. 

 However, those that get recognition and acceptance from among these naturally developed varieties are very few. Amrapali, a hybrid of Neelam, a scented and dwarf mango variety, and the much loved Dussehri, is one such variety. Amrapali has the scent of Neelam and shape of Dussehri. It has got a push from the Central Institute of Subtropical Horticulture.
 
 Every mango variety here is ‘tukmi’ (growing from a seed). It will have the taste, colour and shape of the fruit from the seed of which it has grown. Over the years, varieties have developed due to self-pollination through houseflies, butterflies, honeybee, ladybird or other insects. 
 
 Those with good taste and a better shelf life are grafted. These varieties grow fast and become economically profitable and viable.
 
 Meanwhile, there are some lesser known known and naturally developed varieties from Malihabad:
 
  mango: In Naseeb Khan’s orchard grows a ‘litchi-sized’ mango. Khan has seen the fruit for 50 years but he has not named the variety. The mango grows fully by the fag-end of May or early June. “I don’t know how it came into being and neither did my father who planted the tree,” says Khan.
 
 Temptation: It’s a large fruit with a tinge of red on the head. “Its parentage is not known as it has been growing for years but the taste and shape have a hint of Chausa,” says Khan. It’s because of the scent and look that the variety has been named Temptation. 
 
 Sharifa and Karela: Mangoes shaped like a Sharifa (custard apple) and   (bittergourd) are among 300 varieties on a single tree in Haji Kalimullah’s orchard. “I cannot say by looking at these mangoes how they come into existence. I have seen them growing on the tree ever since I was a child,” he says.
 
 Nariyal: It’s a mango looking like a coconut. “I have grown up seeing many such varieties in my orchard. ‘Nariyal’ is round like a coconut, has a tangy taste, ripens into a deep yellow fruit with spots on its skin but is either eaten by connoisseurs or used in making pickles,” says orchard owner Naseem Baig.
 
 Batasiya: It’s a very small mango, almost the size of a ‘batasha’ growing for several years in mango grower Vijay Singh’s orchard. “It’s fondly called ‘batasiya’ but is an enigma to me. We eat it but don’t know which two varieties have come together in one small one,” says Singh.
 
