KOLKATA: Imagine   being simultaneously held in a   without dividers to filter out the sound of one discussion from the other.Sounds like sheer madness?

 Not quite. The third edition of Bengal   Summit (BGBS) beginning Friday , will see the introduction of silent seminars in the city, with the speaker being heard only by those who wish to listen to the person.
 
 The state-of-the-art   requires the audience to wear headphones to tune into a particular frequency to listen to one seminar speaker. If the person wishes to attend another seminar, all they have to do is simply change the frequency without moving an inch. Between 9.30 and 11 on Saturday morning, 11 seminars will be simultaneously held at the four permanent halls in Milan Mela. Altogether, 16 seminars are slated du ring the two-day event.
 
 “Sound-proof walls or physical barriers will not be used between the various seminar zones. The demarcations will be done using potted plants. If a person were to walk in without a headphone into one of the halls where multiple seminars are underway , all that the person is likely to hear are the faint whispers of the speakers,“ said a member of the organising committee.
 
 The main plenary hall spread over nearly 50,000 sq ft can accommodate nearly 3,000 people. At the head of the giant hall will be a 100 ft long stage. Watchout technology will be in use for all digital content. The large digital screen can be used as a single screen or split into two or three screens displaying different content.
 
 Two VIP lounges, including a 25 m diameter dome, has been set up. The latter will be used to host President Pranab Mukherjee, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and other important dignitaries. After sunset, projections will be done on the outer surface of dome, turning it into an installation piece in the ground.
 
 “We wanted to break the geometry of squares and rectangles, which people are used to seeing at fair grounds and seminar halls. Hence the dome christened stratosphere,“ the official said.
 
 An exhibition hall has also been set up where companies from Russia and Poland will exhibit their products.
 
 With Kolkata Book Fair, starting barely four days after the BGBS, construction of book stalls have already begun.This section has been masked using view-cutters to enable book fair organisers to continue with the preparation without interfering in BGBS.
 
 
