CHANDIGARH: Keen on making Haryana a   of   and a preferred investment destination, the state government on Saturday came out with   2017 to incentivise setting up of new units, and ensure growth and modernisation of the existing textile industry.

 A government spokesperson said taking a holistic approach to the issue, the policy was packed with fiscal and financial incentives and contains provisions for infrastructure augmentation, setting up of textile parks, and facilities for skill training. It aimed at generating 50,000 new jobs by attracting investment in the textile sector to the tune of Rs 5,000 crore, he said.
 
 The spokesperson said the draft Textile Policy 2017 had been put in public domain in February to invite suggestions from various stakeholders. The suggestions received had been duly factored in before giving the policy final shape, he said.
 
 “It has been formulated with an eye on the cotton belt of Haryana. The state is one of the leading cotton producers in the country with Sirsa, Fatehabad, Bhiwani,   and Jind being the main cotton producing districts. This sector provides employment to about one million people and readymade garments worth $ 2 billion are exported from the state annually,” he said.
 
 The policy proposes capital subsidy of 10% for projects of eligible enterprises across Haryana. It aims at positioning Haryana as a preferred destination for global textile majors, besides boosting textile exports by Compound Annual Growth Rate of 20% during the policy period.
 
 Under the policy, the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation would offer industrial plots on lease for 33 years with 5% increase in annual lease rent. Besides, panchayat land will also be made available on lease for industrial development. Textile enterprises acquiring technology will be provided financial assistance of up to 50 per cent of the cost for adopting technology from recognised national institutes, subject to maximum of up to Rs 25 lakh.
 
 The policy also provides for 100% electricity duty exemption for 10 years from the date of release of electricity connection for new enterprises in ‘B,’ ‘C’ and ‘D’ category blocks, and for five years only for new enterprises in ‘A’ category block.
 
 In order to meet the demand for an international quality testing centre at Panipat, the existing quality marking centre for textile goods at old industrial area, Panipat, would be upgraded to global standards. The government would also facilitate setting up of a textile park at Hansi in Hisar district.
 
 
