SHIMLA: Following public outrage over the   and murder of a 16-year-old schoolgirl near Shimla, the   government on Friday recommended a   into the case.

 “Keeping in view the sensitivity of the matter and to remove all doubts, if any, the government has decided to refer the matter to the CBI,” said chief minister  , who took stock of the situation after his return from a two-day tour of Kullu on Friday.
 
 The government’s decision came in the face of a protest demonstration by hundreds of people in Theog and Kotkhai. The protesters blocked National Highway-5, which links Shimla with upper Shimla district, for several hours. The crowd even attacked a police convoy taking the accused to Shimla for medical examination. Cabinet minister G S Bali and Leader of Opposition   too demanded a CBI probe, saying there were allegations of the “real culprits” being shielded by the police.
 
 The minor girl, a Class X student, was allegedly raped and murdered in Shimla district on July 4. Her body was found in a forest two days later.
 
 Alleging attempt to politicize the case and destruction of public property by protesters at Theog, Virbhadra said, “The government has decided to refer the matter to CBI.”
 
 However, the opposition claimed the decision to refer the case to CBI had come too late, and that too after the people shut down the highway in protest. Dhumal alleged that there were doubts in the minds of people as earlier, photographs of four “accused” were uploaded in the Facebook wall of a VVIP and later removed. He said if those four were not the real culprits then it needs to be investigated as to how their photographs were uploaded on the Facebook. “Who were the people detained earlier by police?” he asked.
 
 Citing earlier instances of Nepalese nationals fleeing to their country after committing crimes here, he said when a former advocate general, Chhabil Dass, was murdered by a Nepalese in Shimla, the accused had left for his country immediately. In the case of Raghunath temple heist, the accused, a Nepal national, had left for home immediately, he said.
 
 “It is surprising that this time two Nepalese national arrested by police remained in the area after the gang-rape and murder of a minor girl,” the BJP leader said. Dhumal claimed the chief minister had agreed to refer the case to CBI only under public pressure.
 
 In his  , cabinet minister Bali wrote that the incident had agitated the people so much that thousands had come out on roads to protest, which turned violent, against the government and the administration.
 
