NAGPUR: With the forest department seeking a   remand (MCR) and not forest   (FCR), the three accused in the   of   (T10) have managed to walk out free on bail within 24 hours of being arrested.

 The three accused — Mahadev Irpate (65), son Uttam Irpate (35) and his father-in-law Shubham Uikey (55) -- were released by Nagbhid judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) Jitendra Bhende on Friday. 
 
 All the three were arrested in Moshi village, about 90 kms from here, on Thursday after Irpate confessed the tiger was electrocuted on April 19, and to it being buried. They also admitted to throwing its collar into bushes around 200 metres away from the spot in a bid to mislead the investigators.
 
 Despite the seriousness of the crime, a violation of both the Electricity Act and Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972 for killing a Schedule I animal, all were released on bail.
 
 Counsel for forest department Devidas Karkade had argued that tiger was a national property and by electrocuting it the accused have destroyed national property. “However, as the forest department application was for seeking MCR, it was the court’s discretion whether to grant it or not,” he told TOI.
 
 Vijay Sahare, the counsel for the accused, argued that it was not a case of hunting or poaching. “All the body parts of the tiger were intact and the wildcat had died accidentally due to electrocution. The accused had not removed any body parts,” he said.
 
 “The court accepted our arguments and granted bail to all the three accused on a surety bond of Rs15,000 each. The next hearing is slated for May 11,” Sahare told TOI.
 
 Both, Bramhapuri deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) Kulraj Singh and investigating officer & RFO of Nagbhid range RM Talande did not respond to the repeated calls made to them.
 
 Sources said evidence clearly indicated that the Irpates were stealing electricity from the overhead 11kv line and connecting it to the fence in order to protect their farm from herbivores.
 
 “We found huge electric wire bundles on the farm. Even as Srinivas was killed on April 19, at least 80 wooden legs to which the electric wires are tied to flow current were not removed from the farm,” said sources involved in the probe.
 
 “This completely indicates how sloppy the forest officials were in detecting the heinous crime. It was evident from the site that electrocution is rampant in the area. In January, a leopard cub had died due to electrocution near the same area and carcass was thrown elsewhere. But the case was buried amid negligence,” said sources.
 
 “In a similar case in Khapa near Nagpur where a tigress died of electrocution early this year, forest department could secure custody and subsequently MCR of the two accused. Why the same could not be done in Nagbhid case,” asked wildlife conservationist Uday Patel.
 
 Patel added electrocution offenders should be punished by removing tribal benefits. “There is no deterrent and hence such cases are going on in entire Bramhapuri landscape,” he said.
 
 
