MUMBAI: The state government plans to bail out loss-making transport undertakings run by local bodies across  , including BEST which incurs more than a Rs 1,000 crore loss in Mumbai annually. Officials announced on Friday that the government had formed a four-member committee under the transport commissioner to study and decide on a policy.

 The state urban development department issued a government resolution (GR) which stated that transport services runs by local self-governments across the state were making  . “However, it is necessary to continue them for the sake of the poor, labourers and common people living in cities who cannot afford auto/taxi fares. Hence, the government has decided to form a committee to study the issue and help frame a policy to bail out the local transport service system,” the GR stated.
 
 BEST in Mumbai, TMT in Thane and PMT in Pune are some which will come under the radar. The committee will be headed by transport commissioner Praveen Gedam and include Nashik municipal commissioner Abhishek Krushna, MSRTC managing director Ranjit Singh Deol and a deputy secretary of the UDD.
 
 BEST, which plies nearly 3,800 buses, is one of the worst-affected transport undertakings in the state. It has been incurring losses to the tune of over Rs 1,000 crore annually in the transport division and accumulated losses are nearly Rs 2,500 crore. The undertaking, which has been struggling to operate for several months, was unable to pay staff salaries on time for four to five months. “Last month, the   borrowed money from banks as loans to pay salaries. We have been demanding that either BMC or the state government should give special grants (at least Rs 2,000 crore) to the cash-strapped body,” said BEST committee member Ravi Raja.
 
 Another panel member welcomed the decision to appoint a committee, and demanded that BEST, which caters to 30 lakh daily commuters, should be accorded priority. Transport experts recently suggested measures to improve finances and the functioning of the undertaking. 
 
 “BEST should ensure buses run in every nook and corner of the city throughout the day. Even if it makes losses, the undertaking should realise that every passenger counts,” transport expert Ashok Datar said. He said the state government or BMC should finance the undertaking. “The government should realise public transport is a public service, and one should not look at it as business for profit-making. There should be a social obligation to provide buses to every part of the city, during peak and non-peak hours,” he said.
 
 A BEST official said BMC recently suggested measures, some of which were being implemented. “BEST must wet-lease buses, cut down staff gradually by freezing recruitment and cut allowances to make it on par with those employed in the civic corporation. There is a plan to merge the BEST and BMC budgets, and if BEST undertakes cost-cutting measures, it will help curtail losses,” the official added.
 
 
