AURANGABAD: With the civic body delaying the desilting of all major nullas passing through the city, the residents fear that they could cause havoc yet again. These nullahs pass through congested localities and have thick layers of silt, which will cause water logging in the nearby low laying areas during monsoon. Though couple of weeks are left for the monsoon to arrive, the municipal body has not yet completed the cleaning of even 40% of the nullahs. 

 To avoid the perennial problem, the authorities had identified about 12 to 13 major nullahs where desilting work is being carried out presently. The municipal body had planned to clean the nullah beds before monsoon, but going by the ground realities, it appears that they might not be able to complete the task within the stipulated time. 
 
 A senior officer in the   (AMC) said that cleaning of all the spots is not feasible. "Old city, Gulmandi, Smarathnagar and   are some of the spots where we cannot carry out desilting because of technical reasons. In many other congested spots, there is no passage for JCB machine and thus we have to carry out the work manually," he said. 
 
 Executive engineer Hemant Kolhe told TOI on Tuesday that the civic body had cleared majority of the bottle-necks to avoid water logging. Nearly 40% work of the has been completed so far while the remaining work is in progress. "We have deployed JBB machines in each zone to speed up the work. We expect that nullah beds on most of the strategic locations be cleared before monsoon while desilting work at the remaining spots will be carried out even during summer," he said. 
 
 Last monsoon, most of the low laying spots in Aurangpura Mahatma Fule Chowk, Samarthanagar, Town Hall, Adalat Road, main road in   and   were water logged for hours, slowing down the traffic. Water had also entered households of many residents. Pedestrians had to struggle to commute on roads in Gulmadi, Barudgar Nullah and Peer Bazar. 
 
 Similar situation was observed at Pragati Colony, Chikhalthana and some parts of   where water logging made lives of residents miserable after every rainfall. 
 
 
