PANAJI: A   (PIL) praying that Mhadei/Mandovi and Zuari rivers, with all their tributaries and streams be declared as living persons has been filed before high court of Bombay at Goa by social activist,   and others. The matter was mentioned on Monday for a hearing on admission likely to be held on Wednesday. 

 Goa’s rivers are facing a major threat from works initiated by its bigger neighbours, Karnataka and Maharashtra, to divert the water from the river Mhadei, especially Kalsa and its tributaries. “The extraordinary situation has arisen since Mhadei/Mandovi and Zuari are losing their very existence. This situation requires extraordinary measures to be taken to preserve and conserve rivers Mandovi and Zuari,” the petition states.
 
 In a precedent, Uttarakhand high court had accorded recognition to river Ganga as the ‘first living entity of India’ in an order dated March 20, 2017. River Yamuna was also declared a living entity. As both rivers would enjoy status of living persons, both rivers would also be identically entitled to rights like humans.
 
 Shetye, Naresh Chodankar,   and Desmond Alvares also prayed for orders, directing the state to direct the advocate general and additional solicitor general to represent Goa at all legal proceedings to protect the interest of both rivers.
 
 The petitioners also prayed for directions to ensure that the government upholds the status of these rivers and promotes their health and ecology. They also sought the court’s help to monitor and supervise work done in this regard through periodic reports.
 
 Karnataka had started the work to divert the Kalsa tributary of Mhadei river into the Malaprabha basin in October 2006, on war footing. 
 
 Villagers in border areas and other groups had tried to build pressure on the central government to allow them to dam and divert 7.56tmc feet of water from Kalsa.
 
 Maharashtra is also constructing the Virdi dam on Goa’s border. Goa’s then advocate general had urged before the Mhadei water disputes tribunal (MWDT) that Maharashtra must maintain status quo on all construction activity on Kattika nullah so as not to deprive the riparian state of Goa its share of water. Violations of status quo were being alleged.
 
 This ecological destruction in the hottest global biodiversity hotspot had worried environmentalists, as no assessment of damage has been carried out. If the projects are completed, huge adverse impacts are also feared, as water supply schemes in a few talukas are likely to be affected and saline intrusion in upstream areas will increase.
 
 Further, the petitioners have stated that both rivers are worshipped by fisherman and people of all castes and religion. “Hindus have a deep spiritual connection with Mhadei as it turns to Kushavati, where we usually take a dip before going to Lord Damodar,” the petitioners stated. While Hindus believe that a dip in river Mhadei can wash away all sins, it is also called ‘Maha Dayi’, foster mother, and is referred to as Parshuram Shristi in ancient Hindu temples of Goa and literature, they said.
 
 
