BHOPAL:It’s been 18 years now that women employees at the state secretariat lack night-drop facility from office. This despite a government order, a copy of which is with TOI, issued as far back as in 1999 to all department heads directing them to provide the facility to women employees who stay back late after work.

 “Assembly is in progress, and there is a lot of work for question hour in the House,” said  , who is with the mining department and has to work till late in the night to prepare replies for the minister. Bhan can’t drive and has to rely on local transport or a family member to pick her up late night from office. She is hoping that on International Women’s Day the government implements the order.
 
 Another woman employee at the secretariat, Farhat Afa Khan of the cooperatives department, said, “General Administration Department (GAD) orders are not at all being implemented. Work in departments continues round-the-year, due to which employees need to stay till late in the night. It’s high time that the state government makes night-drop arrangement, and makes us feel safe.”
 
 Multiple orders issued by GAD in 17 years have failed to sensitise the state bureaucracy about women’s safety in MP. In 1999, 2000 and in 2015, GAD issued orders, marked as ‘important’, to all additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and department heads asking them to ensure car-drop facility at night for women employees if they are made to stay back for work.
 
 The state secretariat,  , has around 400 women employees -- which is about 15 per cent of the total strength. Mantralaya Employees Union president Sudhir Nayak said he would hand over a memorandum to the government to make available night-drop facility for women employees.
 
 Deputy secretary   said there is no separate vehicle for drop facility to women employees. “Generally, whichever department or official makes women employees stay back at night for work has the responsibility to drop them home safe,” he said.
 
