KOLKATA:   Group payments to   club cannot be termed as proceeds of crime and the club was a “bona fide receiver“ of payments, the ED appellate tribunal in New Delhi said on Thursday. Absolving the club of the money-laundering charges, it also held that the club was in no nexus with the Ponzi firm being probed by central agencies.

 In an order passed on Thursday, tribunal member   said the appellant (Mohun Bagan) did not have any nexus with the accused Saradha Group of Companies. He also maintained that Mohun Bagan did not know about the criminality attached to the subject of payments.
 
 Earlier, ED had alleged that while Mohun Bagan had the Vijay Mallya-run UB Group as title sponsor, the Saradha Group was the cosponsor for two consecutive years. On Thursday, the tribunal maintained that payments were received in terms of the co-sponsorship agreement between the parties and Mohun Bagan is a bona fide receiver of the payment “in good faith“. According to annual reports, Saradha Agro Development Ltd had paid the club Rs 2 crore towards sponsorship in 2010 and 2011.
 
 ED had also alleged that there are several expenditures which did not have supporting documents. For example, contribution for development of sports, as shown in the 2012-13 and 2013-14 balance sheets does not have any supporting details. In 2012-13, several donations received by the club does not have any detail in the balance sheet, the agency initially found. Following the probe, ED had also attached the accounts of the club.
 
 “We had moved the tribunal challenging the order. Several other clubs which are also being probed for alleged involvement with Saradha had also challenged ED's move to attach the accounts,“ said  , general secretary of the club.
 
 Soumya Chakraborty, the lawyer appearing for the Mohun Bagan, said the order maintained that the amount was not proceeds of crime.“Therefore the accounts cannot be attached under the PMLA Act. It has also absolved Mohun Bagan of all charges of money laundering,“ he said.
 
