BHUBANESWAR: At a time when more and more people are splurging on weddings, a young couple from Bhubaneswar chose to do something different. In a unique gesture, Pintu Bhatttacharya and his wife   set up a children's library in Bhubaneswar from funds raised on their wedding reception. Inaugurated at Chandrasekharpur in the state capital on Tuesday, the library has 500 books and a bustling activity centre for children of the locality. 

  "My husband and I are voracious readers. We have also been associated with Bakul Pathagar that spearheaded the library movement in Odisha. Besides, libraries are slowly disappearing. This was the reason we decided not to have a lavish wedding and instead do something good for the society. A children's library was the first thing that struck us," said Aparajita, an IT professional. 
 
 The couple had put up a wish-tree at the reception venue and guests were requested to fulfil the wishes written on the tree. These included donating books, bookshelves and other furniture, apart from toys for the library. 
 
  "Our guests were not ready for the surprise and many may not have liked the idea of being asked for funds on our wedding day. Of altogether 200 wishes, 100 were fulfilled," she added. 
 
 The couple have invested around Rs 25,000 in setting up the library. "I sincerely believe that books are a man's best friends. Apart from books, the library has a scope for other creative activities in which children can be engaged. We have plans to invite experts on various subjects and story tellers too in the future to make the place more happening," said Pintu, also an IT professional. 
 
 Founder of Bakul Pathagar Sujit Mohapatra said, "'I have always believed in volunteerism and big changes can be made with small contributions of ordinary people. This is the first library in Bhubaneswar outside our main library in Satya Nagar. We are thankful to Punjabi  ,w ho allowed us to run on their premises and also to Pintu and   who set the trend."   has so far set up 20 children s libraries across the state. 
 
