GUWAHATI: In the history of migration of different ethnic groups from southeast and south Asia to the northeast, historians say the movement of the Mog community to Tripura from the Arakan state (now Rakhine) is perhaps one of the less explored chapters. 

 This is the reason why Myanmarese scholar   has taken a special interest in uncovering the historical links of migration of the Arakanese to Tripura in different phases of history.
 
 A doctoral scholar in the department of South East Asian Studies at the National University of Singapore, Htin said the Arakanese (Rakhines) in Tripura are known as Mog while in the   in Bangladesh they are are known as Marma.
 
 There are about 38,000 Mogs in Tripura, while in Bangladesh there are about two lakh Marmas. In  , the Arakanese population is about two million. Mogs are concentrated mostly in south Tripura, while there are settlements of the community also in north Tripura. 
 
 Htin, on Wednesday, delivered a talk on 'Discovering Arakan in Northeast India: Myths and Histories of the Mogh Community' at the northeast regional centre of the   here.
 
 "My interest in studying the Mog and Arakan connection developed when I came in touch with a Buddhist monk Pannachara, who himself has done a lot of research. He even came to Tripura and Mizoram in the 1980s to know about the Mog people. He whet my interest to delve deeper into the migration of the Arakanese to Tripura," Htin said.
 
 Htin, during his visit to Tripura and his interactions with Mogs and researchers, has been able to find out archaeological, oral, and chronicle records which establish the migration of the community from the erstwhile Arakan to the Indian state.
 
 "The Arakan has become more Myanmarized. On the other hand, among the Mog community there is a continuation of past Arakanese tradition and culture. Even the scripts the Mog people use are in an archaic Arakanese script," Htin explained.
 
 He said that according to the local claims and oral tradition, the Mogs started early settlements in Tripura from the 5th century AD, while there are archaeological findings which showed Arakan connection with the Tripura-Comilla region in the 7th century AD.
 
 Various chronicles claim the migration of a group of Arakanese to Tripura between the 8th and 10th century AD, he added.
 
 However, historical sources indicated that the Arakanese had control over Tripura in the 16th century AD. "The last migration under a Mog leader, Mra Chai, happened in the 18th century," Htin said.
 
 
