MYSURU:  ,   started by the Maharajas of Mysuru over four centuries ago, is a cultural and literary carnival rather than a religious festival, said celebrated Nithyothsava poet K S   after inaugurating 407th Dasara celebrations on Thursday.

 Mysuru got into the festive mood with cultural programmes, a food mela, water sports, a film festival, flower show, Dasara sports and an exhibition. 
 
 The city’s streets have been illuminated for the past few days.
 
 Likening the celebrations to a tree, Ahmed said the roots of the tree may be spiritual but its branches and leaves represent our culture and language. 
 
 “The festival is unique as it is celebrated by one and all. There is no religious barrier and the festival portrays essence of Kannada culture,” he said after paying floral tributes to the temple deity Chamundeshwari. 
 
 Ahmed recalled cultural traditions of the Mysuru Maharajas and their contribution to Mysuru. He described Dasara as a people’s festival and not that of kings. He began his speech after reciting few lines from D R Bendre’s poem, saying inaugurating Dasara was a “historical moment” in his life though he had received various awards, including the Padma Shri.
 
 Chief minister   too said Dasara is a people’s festival and there are religious and cultural celebrations. Siddaramaiah said the celebration had gained significance with a renowned poet like Ahmed inaugurating it.
 
 Chamundi Hills chief priest Shashishekar Dixit said special abhisheka was performed for the idol of Chamundeshwari prior to inauguration. It will be taken out in procession on elephant back on the last day.
 
 A marathon procession of cultural troupes and caparisoned elephants, led by Arjuna carrying the idol of deity Chamundeshwari, amidst sea of devotees will mark the end of the end of celebration on September 30.
 
 A host of Ahmed’s relatives, including his wife Shehanaz, participated in the inaugural function atop Chamundi Hills. His sister Dilshad said they were happy to be part of the state festival.
 
 Siddarmaiah said he had suggested that the authorities make the celebration special planning the Dasara procession along the lines of the Republic Day parade. 
 
 “I personally met and requested defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman to reintroduce the Dasara air show. I don’t know what has happened,” he said.
 
 Karaga marks inauguration of festivities at Madikeri
 
  The Dasara celebrations in Madikeri were kicked off on Thursday with customary pomp, along with all the trappings of tradition, with Karagas being offered to four Goddesses – Kanchi Kamakshi, Kote Mariamma, Kundurumotte and Dandina Mariamma.
 
 One of the unique aspects about the Karaga is that all the performers belong to the Gowli community. The deities being placed adeptly on the tonsured heads of the Gowli priests. While A Umesh holds the distinction of performing the Karaga to Dandina Mariamma for the past 43 years, it was priest Chami who carried the Kundurumotte deity. Meanwhile, Umesh Subramani carried the Kote Mariamma Karaga, while Naveen did the honours for the Kanchi Kamakshi Goddess.
 
 The Karaga is filled with as many as nine varieties of grain, holy water, with the vessel being decorated in an elaborate fashion. These Karagas go around Madikeri on all nine days of Dasara festival. The Volagas, a traditional musical troupe in Kodagu, will accompany the priests across Madikeri. The priests wield a long knife in one hand a wooden stick called the ‘bettha’ on the other during the performance.
 
