Madurai: As cow vigilantism continues to be reported from some parts of the country, as many as nine cows were killed and several injured in a road accident caused by a water lorry near Thenthiruperai in Srivaikundam taluk of Tuticorin district on Saturday. 

 The herd of cows was brought for grazing as there was no water and grazing field in its home village. After quenching their thirst in Thamirabarani river that passes through Srivaigundam, they were crossing the road when a water tanker hit them, they said. 
 
 The death of the cattle sent shockwaves among local farmers of Thenthiruperai and surrounding villages including Kadambakulam and Perumbur. They thronged the spot and blocked some 50 water lorries while staging a protest on the Tiruchendur-Tirunelveli road. Azhwarthirunagari police later calmed the protesters and got them to disperse. They seized the lorry driven by V Murugesan of Virudhunagar. The driver was booked for rash driving and mischief by killing or maiming cattle (section 429) based on a complaint by the cattle owner A Nallakannu, the inspector Kokila told TOI.
 
 Nallakkannu hails from Sivakalai in Karungulam in Nanguneri and owns about 50 cows and 25 goats. Like him, there are many others also who bring their cattle for grazing to the nearby villages including Kadambakulam due to water scarcity and shortage of grazing field in their home town. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, the villagers complained that they saw hundreds of lorries taking water from the agricultural land through bore wells in the villages including Maavadi Pannai, Kurangani and Aathurankal for industries in Arumuganeri. “They never mind road rules and safety of people. The authorities who need to look after it, are also not bothered. The issue was taken to the revenue authorities several times. But, there was no action on their part,” said K Robert. 
 
 Livestock is the asset of the farmers and it is their livelihood. Loss of a single cow will disturb the family’s economy. A Nellainathan said that advocate S Vijayakumar of Karaikudi said that cow vigilantism had been emerging. But, what was more important was to give water and food to cows first. In those days, there was separate land for cattle grazing in each village. Over a period, such lands went missing in many villages. The authorities need to retrieve those lands and help the farmers, he said. 
 
 Commenting on the issue, the district revenue officer Dr. M Veerappan said “The collector (N Venkatesh) has instructed to handle the issue seriously. At present no permission has been given to draw water from lands. We are going to regulate water lorries. We have been telling the police to strictly enforce the road rules. We will sensitize the people again.”
 
 
