PUNE: Banks which have had to grapple with cash shortages and irate customers now have another responsibility up their sleeves. They will have to urge people to vote in the municipal corporation elections in Pune and   as well as in other eight municipal corporations which will go to polls in February.

 To increase voting percentage in the ten municipal corporation elections, the state election commission has reached out to banks to spread the message of voting with the last election in 2012 registering a voting percentage of only a little over 50 per cent. With the target of touching a turnout of around 70 to 80per cent, the commission is leaving no stone unturned to ensure a good voter turnout.
 
 “Transaction slips of ATMs and banks in corporation areas will spread the message of voting. The banks in these areas have been requested to use the SMS system to request customers to exercise their right to franchise,’’ said state election commissioner  .
 
 The election commission received positive feedback from banks after a preliminary meeting with bank officials. “We want to target the elite class as it has been noticed that they are the ones who shy away from voting,” he said.
 
 Besides reaching out to banks, the state election commission has reached out to the department of higher and technical education and even issued a circular to encourage students to participate in rallies, human chain and street plays which would be staged in areas with poor voting patterns. The street plays would also be conducted in colleges to encourage first time voters, said election department officials. The state election commissioner would also conduct virtual classes for college students and request them to vote.
 
 Such initiatives would not be limited to the 10 municipal corporations but encompass the 26 zilla parishads which would also go to the polls. It is expected that 6.25 crore voters will exercise their right to vote.
 
 The commission would also want to reach out to the housing societies. According to the election commission, each corporation would list societies in their jurisdiction and banners would be put up at these societies. A rapport would be established with the president and secretary of the society urging them to ensure that all the members of the society vote in the election. “We have listed 1633 housing societies in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad and asked officials to reach out to the office bearers and request them to ensure all members vote,’’ a state election commission official said.
 
 Community radios will also urge voters to exercise their franchise while a meeting with hotels and restaurants will ensure that banners are put up during the election urging people to vote.   is also being looked at as an alternative for spreading the message, the officials added.
 
 
