NEW DELHI: Former finance minister   termed as “press release” Union minister Jayant Sinha’s article claiming that “structural reforms” by the Modi government would create a ‘New India’. He said Sinha should know that administrative changes were not structural reforms.

  demanded a white paper on the state of economy, asking the government to list out measures to arrest the “free fall”. In a series of tweets, Chidambaram said, “Jayant Sinha’s article in TOI reads like a PIB press release. He should know that administrative changes are not structural reforms.” “If Jayant Sinha is right, why is the outcome a steady decline in GDP growth over 5 quarters? If Jayant Sinha is right, why is there no increase in private investment?” he asked.
 
 Questioning Sinha’s claim, Chidambaram asked, “If Jayant Sinha is right, why is credit growth to industry negative? If Jayant Sinha is right, why is there poor demand for electricity and plant load factor at 50-60 per cent?” Jayant, in an article in TOI, defended the Modi government’s economic policies a day after his father and   leader   hit out at the government for the “mess” in the economy in an article.
 
 Slamming the government, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma said India was in real danger of slipping into economic depression and accused Prime Minister   of being “singularly responsible” for the damage by his “reckless” decisions.
 
 In a statement, Sharma said, “It is a matter of grave concern that the Indian economy is fast slipping into deep recession, with no hope of recovery in the foreseeable future.” He accused Modi of “betraying” the youth as his government, which promised 10 million jobs a year, had not only failed to create jobs but was “responsible for destroying” millions of jobs by its “irresponsible and wrong policies and decisions”.
 
 “PM is singularly responsible for inflicting grave damage on the economy by his reckless decisions, including demonetisation and hasty imposition of a flawed GST,” Sharma said.
 
