Nagpur: Giving a refreshing new look and style to their favourite brands, the final year students of Central India School of Fine Arts put their branding campaigns on display. Key Designism, a group exhibition by budding artists of BFA (bachelors in fine arts) and MFA (masters in fine arts) was inaugurate on Tuesday evening at ‘Cisfa Ki Chhoti Gallery’, Laxmi Nagar. This was the eleventh batch of the institute.

 The students made good use of photographs, illustrations, lettering and graphics to design hoardings, posters, letterheads, envelopes, visiting cards and miscellaneous media to promote a brand of their choice.
 
 Abhishek Deoghare chose a graphic-based poster design for a consulting company, whereas Shruti Kanhere added illustrations for a juice product. Vaidehi Khode designed a new series for a jewellery brand while Nikita Kohale reinvented tagines for instant noodles. Janhavi Pandit gave a human form to her favourite buicuit while revamping it, whereas Monika Tak focused on different cultures being united by coffee. Sayali Tikekar’s campaign vouched for her favourite bag; Mayuri Wankar designed model-based posters for a snack pack and Dnyanesh Khorgade did an innovative branding for a courier company.
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar was the chief guest at the event, while NMC ruling party leader Sandip Joshi was the special guest. The mayor launched the   website (www.cisfa.in) during the event.
 
 Jichkar saluted the students for their creativity and said, “Without creativity, there is no flavour to life. Even in politics, we are made to undertake branding. About 10 years ago, I assumed the computer age had begun. Now is the designing age, good presentation is of utmost importance. Ideas and innovation are valuable.”
 
 Principal (in-charge) of CISFA, Bhau DandadeDandade said, “The importance of advertising campaigns has risen phenomenally. It is said that we live in Kalyug, but rather, we live in ‘kala-yug.’ Politics, social activities and more fields utilize advertising today. The future belongs to those who are new in their ideas and innovation.”
 
 The exhibition is open to public till Thursday, March 9, between 4pm to 8pm.
 
 
