GREATER NOIDA: Out of the total 2.35 lakh residential units sanctioned by Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority since 2010-11 across 195 projects, only 20,000 flats have so far been registered and possession handed over to buyers, the authority said on Thursday. 

 While another 36,000 buyers are expected to get possession by December 2018, the rest 1.8 lakh residential units of nearly 102 group housing projects are stuck for the past one year. Besides, with the notification of UP-Rera, most flats in these 102 housing projects are likely to remain outside its ambit as they wouldn’t be able to qualify under the definition of ‘ongoing projects’ as per Section ‘h’ of the notification.
 
 The homebuyers, meanwhile, have decided to challenge Section ‘h’ of the UP-Rera notification. “Since the spirit of the notification is not in consonance with the actual Act passed by the Parliament in March 2016, we will challenge the notification through a writ petition at Allahabad high court,” Rashesh Purohit, founder, NCR homebuyers association, said.
 
 Of the 102 projects, 49 comprising approximately 50,000 units are those where builders have not only defaulted on payments to   but also on delivery of flats to buyers. “Here the buyers are complaining that they have not been able to register their flats and the apartments are not even livable,” said  , additional CEO, GNIDA. “The balance 53 projects have nearly one lakh residential units. Here the work is at a standstill even though they have been launched. We still have to examine whether the builder has run away with the buyers’ money, whether there is unsold property or whether the builder has used buyers’ money to invest in other projects. In these projects, buyers have been asking for refunds from the builder,” he explained. 
 
 President,   NCR, Manoj   tried to assuage buyers’ fears as he explained that all such apartments in which construction is presently going on will be eligible for registration with Rera. “When the Act states ‘buildings’ which have applied for completion certificates, it automatically means that such buildings are ready for people to move in. There are several clearances and documents required before one can apply for CC. So, only those flats where people are already living will be left out of this. All towers where construction is presently ongoing will come under   and these builders will have to register,” Gaur told TOI.
 
 So far, 34 projects, 340 promoters and 186 agents from Gautam Budh Nagar have registered on the UP-Rera website.
 
 The authority has also decided to appoint an expert soon to find a solution to bail out the stuck projects. “The consultant will help us to determine the exact position, besides finding solutions,” he added. A workshop has been scheduled on August 3 to finalise the terms of reference for the consultant,” he added. 
 
 Meanwhile, even as GNIDA is making serious attempts to resolve issues, buyers have decided to intensify their protest against the delay in handover of flats and stage a protest outside chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s office in Lucknow after August 15. A meeting of buyers from all Noida and Greater Noida realty projects will be held on July 30 to decide on the date of protest. 
 
 
