KOLKATA:  , particularly those along the   or  , are in a quandary over their travel plans to India this summer following the ban on electronic goods. While those who live in San Francisco, Los Angeles, Seattle, San Diego and San Jose have decided to fly through Singapore or Hong Kong and avoid Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Doha, those in New York City, Chicago, Washington DC, Maryland, Virginia or Miami are in a dilemma over which route to choose during their trips to Kolkata.

 Travellers between American cities and Kolkata are among the worst hit by the Trump administration's in-flight restrictions on flights originating or transiting 10 airports in the Gulf as nearly 90% of those from the East Coast and Mid West fly through the hubs in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Doha. Nandini Bhattacharya, a microbiologist with FDA who lives in Olney , Marland, and visits her mother in Salt Lake every year, says it will be a big hassle to take Gulf carriers as she won't be able to utilise the 8-hour layover at Dubai.
 
 “This has always been part of my flight schedule and carrying a laptop, iPad, gaming device is not out of norm these days. I am not sure what risks prompted TSAhomeland security to implement this at the last minute or how cre dible the threat is, but I am willing to make a sacrifice and have nothing to hide. Of course, screening will be a little more extensive for cargo baggage and hopefully that mitigates some of the risks if they have predicted any. But what I am absolutely unable to understand is why only target these airports and not all transit airports,“ she said.
 
 That is exactly what is bothering Dibyendu Kundu, who works in the justice department in Connecticut. He cites an article in Washington Post to argue that the real motive behind the restriction could be to discourage people from travelling by these flights that have taken over adominant pie of the teavel business between US and Asia. “I am not sure how a laptop can cause harm in the cabin but be harmless in the luggage hold. And how does this prevent a potential terrorist from taking a European carrier from one of those listed countries in the Gulf and then boarding a US-bound flight with the laptop in the cabin? The reasoning beats me,“ he said.
 
 Pallavi Guha, adjunct instructor and PhD candidate, University of Maryland, said the lack of direct flights to Kolkata, unlike Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru or Chennai, will hurt passengers like her.Most of us travel by Emirates or Qatar because of the relatively shorter travel time and convenience of a single stop from the DC area. Yet, we can't imagine flying without our laptops or tablets. It's a long flight and in the past I have utilised my time by finishing work. Even if I don't work on my flight, I am really concerned about getting the laptop damaged as a checked in luggage. We haven't decided on our next travel destination, but it will be a tough choice,“ she admitted.
 
 Arya Choudhury , who works in a USbased healthcare MNC, is, pragmatic. “If the safety of citizens is at stake, and there's limited confidence on the screening process of other countries, measures like these are likely to be taken.“
 
