ABU DHABI: Besides morbid obesity,   is battling multiple chronic conditions - thyroid imbalance, poor kidney and liver function, COPD, lymphedema, fungal infections and bed sores. But you know she's still managing to hack into her happy hormones when she waves at her nurses in the ICU and mutters "tamaam" (perfect, in Arabic) when a doctor call out her name in anticipation of how she's doing. 

 Away from the crowds, curiosity and cameras, it's been two restful days in Abu Dhabi for Eman, who was visibly bewildered as she had to cut through frenzied people making a dash for the world's heaviest woman when she left Mumbai for the  . Evident from security guarding Eman at   where she is now housed, conscious efforts are in place to manage intruders.
 
  Talking to TOI on Saturday at Burjeel, Shamsheer Vayalil, founder and managing director of  , which runs a chain of 16 hospitals in the Middle East and is at the helm of Eman's treatment now, said: "I went with our medical team to Alexandria on February 3 following a request from Dr Muffazzal Lakdawala. He operates in one of our hospitals in Dubai and met me on a visit when we jointly decided to help Eman and travel to Alexandria. But after that we never heard from anyone and we left it at that." 
 
 The 40-year-old medical entrepreneur is candid about his apprehensions when he received the distress call from Shaimaa asking him to take Eman under his care. "We've dealt with several complicated cases but not such a sensitive one with so much attention around it. We didn't want it to become an Indian doctors versus UAE doctors fight either. But we decided to go all out and help Shaimaa since I was aware from the beginning that Eman would take at least a year to recover."
 
 Contrary to reports of Eman not having left her bed or bedroom for 25 years, Shaimaa fished out her cellphone pictures to attest that not only could Eman sit on a floor but would often go out for a ride in the car with her family. "After the stroke two years ago and the water retention that she's been bed-bound. It is my dream to see my sister up and about again. I know it won't happen overnight but I'm willing to wait." 
 
 While Vayalil is ambitious about Eman's recovery too, he is cautious about setting unreal standards. "We don't want to offer a magic cure," he added. 
 
 A review meeting of the 20-member team of medical specialists will decide priorities in Eman's healthcare needs. Her mother and Shaimaa's two-year old daughter will join the sisters in a few days, after Eman is shifted out to her special suite.
 
 Sini Chacko, nurse manager of critical care at Burjeel said, "Eman has been smiling a lot and communicating with us in Arabic monosyllables, sometimes she'll utter her own name and blush."
 
