Chennai: For C Sowrirajan (48), a worker in a chemical factory in Ennore, State Bank of India’s introduction of minimum balance of Rs 5,000 is a big burden. A father of four daughters with regular deductions from his account, he says it would be impossible for him meet this requirements on his salary of Rs 11,000 a month.

 In Delhi’s, Gaffar Khan Market vendors are also feeling the pinch. “The wholesale and vegetable markets are extremely cash intensive. Most workers are paid on a weekly basis and not monthly. It would be extremely difficult for them to maintain Rs 5,000,” said Gaffar Khan Market Association secretary secretary Satinder Singh.
 
 Many first-time account holders are also facing this problem. “Our workers are going to be severely affected as they make just between Rs 8,000-9,000,” said Rafeeque Ahmed, president, Skins & Hides Tanners Association, Tamil Nadu. SBI officials however clarified that the balance requirement is on ‘monthly average balance’. 
 
 Someone with Rs 10,000 salary which reduces to zero at the month-end is still eligible if the average works out to Rs 5,000. Also the Rs 5,000 requirement is for metros. For other cities it is Rs 3,000 and for semi-urban it is Rs 2,000. In the case of rural areas the requirement is only Rs 1,000.
 
 The bank’s chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya recently said that the minimum balance requirement does not apply to salary accounts. She pointed out that SBI was the only bank to waive the minimum balance requirement in 2013 but decided to re-introduce it now as a separate zero balance Jan Dhan Account was now available.
 
 But workers say that they cannot convert their savings account to Jan Dhan accounts. Bankers say that the only way they can do this is to close their account and open another one afresh. Incidentally, less than 10% of Tamil Nadu’s 1.80 lakh leather workers have Jan Dhan accounts. Also those who have availed loans need a regular account with a cheque book facility. According to Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, president, Wholesale Food Grains & Pulses Merchants’ Association. APMC Bengaluru, wholesale merchants, vegetable vendors, small businesses, truck workers, and small fleet owners are affected. He added that the new charges on cash handling were impacting merchants as well. “I deposit Rs 2 lakh everyday and SBI deducts Rs 575. Now the margin I make is 2% after paying everyone down the supply chain — how can I make a profit?” Dinesh Raju, tea estate owner of a 70-year-old plantation Darmona teas, faces the same problems when it comes to paying his workers and for his own cash deposits. “I think it is unfair, the charges SBI has started levying for cash deposits,” said Raju.
 
 
 
