BHOPAL: At her age when her peers were more considered about their looks imitating celebrities, barely out her teens,   Shrivastava became a live  .

 “I wanted to ensure that my mother knows that we tried everything. I knew my mother would not survive. I still gave my liver to her. My liver has regenerated again,” said Ankita, now 24. 
 
 Ankita’s self-confidence and grit demonstrate her resolve, even as she tries to supress her feelings. It has been four years since she donated her liver to help her ailing mother. She had never spoken in public about her brave deed until on Saturday when she was invited by   (BDOS), a champion that Bhopal’s teething organ donation campaign needs.
 
 Her mother was diagnosed with liver cirrhosis and her scarring caused long-term liver damage. For seven years her mother was treated in Bhopal and the option for organ donation told to the family at the very end, in 2013. At the start of the new millennia, liver transplants were taking place in India. 
 
 The family went to a private hospital in Delhi in 2013. It was an eye-opener and looking back in hindsight, the delay caused by poor counselling of alternatives by doctors in Bhopal, she said. Her mother’s condition was worsening. Ankita was informed that liver donation would not necessarily help her mother recover. At 20, Ankita signed the papers — to donate her liver to her ailing mother.
 
 Unlike other organ donations, liver donation is done by removing a piece of a donor’s liver, which then regenerates in the recipient. Ankita was an ideal candidate for the liver donation. She passed 71 of the 72 tests during the pre-surgery test. The intervention took about 38 hours. 
 
 “The earlier the transplant, the better is it for the recipient. My liver was a perfect match but the intervention was too late, in her case,” said Ankita. Her mother passed away in 2014, well aware and proud of her daughter.
 
 As a teenager, Ankita learnt that her mother had  , a viral infection that attacks the liver and can cause both acute and chronic disease. The virus is transmitted through contact with the blood or other body fluids of an infected person. In the case of her mother, it was blood transfusion.
 
