MANGALURU: Consumers who got a major relief when prices of pulses went down by over 50% in the last two weeks, are now smarting under   of another essential commodity. This time, the heat is being felt especially by consumers in the coast, who love their red variety of rice - used extensively in the  

  The price of this rice has shot up by about 20%, making it very dear for daily users.
 
 Majority of the people in the coast consume par boiled rice or what is commonly known as boiled rice.
 
 The red variety rice, kaje’s price has gone up from Rs 36 per kilo to Rs 42 to Rs 44 per kg (depending on which retailer it is sourced from).
 
 The reason for the price hike seems to be due to the increased price of   paddy grown in   and Chikkamagaluru areas and shortfall in production. H K Shenoy, sole distributor of one popular variety of Kaje rice in the region, said “The reason for the price rise is due to increase in rates of paddy used for kaje rice and the production shortfall. The prices are unlikely to go down till a fresh stock comes, which is about six to eight months away.”
 
 But the retailers are not happy. A major retailer said that when prices of many rice of varieties went down few months back, the kaje variety did not see any decrease. “But when recently, there was an increase, the red variety saw a hike. So, it was a double whammy of price hike. The reason we got for price remaining high is the red variety of paddy and rice has good market in Kerala and the supplier was not bothered about reducing rates,” said a retailer.
 
 Another retailer said that the demand for red variety has tapered down by half in his shop. “Where consumers used to buy red variety are now buying the Gidda variety (white parboiled rice), which is retailing between Rs 36 and Rs 38 depending on the quality,” the retailer said. Some hotels which offered red rice have switched over to cheaper gidda rice. Srinath, who cannot do without red rice, said, “It’s hard on the common man. When we thought that there was a bit of semblance in prices, we see the balance being tilted. It is unfair. Most of the people from the coast settled elsewhere, especially Bengaluru, Mumbai prefer boiled variety of rice for consumption.”
 
 So, for the time being, kaje lovers have no choice but to swallow red rice with indignation till price correction takes place.
 
 
