NEW DELHI:   are not out of the   2017 play-offs race, but their battle for survival has hit a critical level. On eight points but with five matches to go as opposed to the four that Gujarat Lions have, KXIP need to win at least four and hope that Delhi Daredevils - on six points from nine matches - lose most of their remaining fixtures. 

 However, three of their remaining fixtures are against the current top three of Mumbai Indians, Kolkata Knight Riders and Mumbai Indians, and so beating the eliminated   on Friday evening will be a terrific way to move up the points table. Coming off a ten-wicket win over Daredevils, KXIP can hope to channel that terrific bowling performance as well as  's ballistic half-century into this game against the weakest team in the league. 
 
 Out of the reckoning for the play-offs with just two wins from 11 matches,   can still pull KXIP down with them should they win. KXIP bossed RCB in their meeting in Indore in the first week of IPL 2017, chasing 149 with eight wickets and a whopping 33 deliveries remaining. 
 
 
 M Chinnaswamy Stadium, Bangalore 
 
 
 May 5, 2017
 
 
 20:00 IST
 
 
 Partly cloudy with a low of 22 degrees Celsius and 63% humidity.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 With figures of none for 29 in two overs, Adam Milne doesn't look a likely starter. 
 
 
 1   (capt), 2 Mandeep Singh, 3 AB de Villiers, 4 Travis Head, 5   (wk), 6 Shane Watson, 7 Pawan Negi, 8 Tymal Mills, 9 Yuzvendra Chahal, 10 S Aravind, 11 Aniket Choudhary 
 
 
 
 
 Nothing to change here, considering the clinical efficiency with which Daredevils were bowled out for 67 in the last match and the resulting chase being the third-fastest in IPL history. 
 
 
 1 Martin Guptill, 2 Hashim Amla, 3 Manan Vohra, 4 Shaun Marsh, 5   (capt), 6 Axar Patel, 7 Wriddhiman Saha (wk), 8 Mohit Sharma, 9  , 10 T Natarajan, 11 Sandeep Sharma
 
 
 
 
 - KXIP's Sandeep Sharma has six wickets inside the Powerplay, the joint-highest this IPL.
 
 - Virat Kohli is RCB's second-highest run-getter, with 239 in seven innings. However, his strike-rate of 124.47 is the third-lowest for any batsman with over 200 runs this season. 
 
 
 KXIP 11 - RCB 8 
 
 
 
 
 "If we can win enough games from here, it puts us in a good position." - Glenn Maxwell
 
 "We are out of the play-offs but some of us can gain experience and confidence which could hopefully put us in a better place next year." - Aniket Choudhary
 
