DEHRADUN: In a bid to make the flyover at   safe for motorists,   mull installing rumble speed breakers to reduce over-speeding and overtaking. The traffic police have also requested the civic authorities to place more signboards on the 783 metre long flyover. The move came after three individuals lost their lives in last two months in separate accidents.

 “After the recent accident in which two individuals lost their lives, we have requested the concerned department to place more cautionary signboards on the flyovers. Also, possibly a divider which is made of rubber could be placed so the commuters do not try to overtake on the flyover. Most of the fatal accidents have been due to head injuries and over-speeding so we have also advised that the minimum speed limit sign posts be put up on the flyovers,” said Dehradun SP  .
 
 Elaborating further Gunjiyal said,”The flyover at ISBT is straight, but at both Balliwala and Ballupur, they curve slightly because of which there is a blind turn leading to accidents.”
 
 The   is approximately 700 metre in length and connects Ballupur Chowk to Clock Tower whereas the 983 metre ISBT connects Transport Nagar to Shimla bypass.
 
 The authorities, however, claim that they had taken all the measures to ensure that no accidents occur on any of the three flyovers.  , chief executive engineer, PWD (NHAI) said, “The cautionary signboards are already in place but people do not want to follow rules. The speed limit on the flyovers in 30 kilometre per hour, but I have seen motorists over-speeding frequently. Overtaking is also prohibited but that’s also something which happens often. People also need to cooperate with us and be careful while driving.”
 
 Sharma added, “The only possibility now to curtail the accidents is to construct speed breakers on the flyovers since the speed limit signs are being ignored.”
 
 Meanwhile, few feel that the accidents could have been avoided if the authorities had planned the construction of the flyover especially the one at Balliwala, better. Ravinder Jugran, a Doon based socio-political activist said,”Balliwala flyover is very narrow on both its ends which and construction should have been done once more land was acquired for it because of which it has become accident prone. Now, the only solution this major issue is widening of the flyover on both the ends.”
 
