KOLKATA: The school that had issued a transfer certificate to the 12-year-old survivor of rape, who had recently given birth to a baby, has agreed to readmit her. After The Times of India reported about her plight, the chairperson of   took up the matter with the district magistrate. On Thursday, the district magistrate ensured that the girl was readmitted to the school.

 When TOI got in touch with the school’s headmistress regarding the girl’s readmission, she acknowledged that such a step has been taken. But she refused to discuss the issue further.
 
 The girl is thrilled to be able to return to school. “Around 1 in the afternoon, I went to my school. By then, my classmates had left. We were there for an hour. The transfer certificate has been cancelled and I have been asked to attend classes from Friday,” she said.
 
 The girl’s grandfather, who accompanied her to school, is relieved. “All I wanted is to pursue her education. I am glad she is going back to classes,” he said.
 
 Sunanda Mukherjee, the chairperson of West Bengal’s Women’s Commission, has welcomed this step. Once the girl’s plight was reported in TOI, she had immediately reacted. “I shudder to think what the girl has already been through. It must be so difficult for her to live with her head held high. I spoke to the Howrah district magistrate and asked her to look into the matter,” Mukherjee said.
 
 When TOI got in touch with Howrah district magistrate Chaitali Chakraborty, she said, “From our end, we ensured that she gets admitted to the school.”
 
 According to Mukherjee, the commission has come across other cases of minor rape survivors who have later again been victimised. “I know of a minor who was raped. She eventually gave birth to a child. But the perpetrator and his family never accepted her and the baby. No DNA tests were done. Now, the girl and the child are living with her parents. We are still pursuing so that this girl gets justice. But society isn’t very kind to such victims. Victim-shaming is common. I hope this girl doesn’t have to face any victim-shaming once she joins school,” Mukherjee said.
 
 Her father is optimistic about the girl’s future. “Education has been her priority. She dreams of becoming a doctor one day. We are hoping that she can eventually finally fulfil her dreams,” he said.
 
