BENGALURU: The   (NSF) and the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) will be administered by professionals once the new national sports development code comes into force. Borrowing the concept of a corporate set-up in sports from the RM   committee report, the code has made it mandatory for the   and NSFs to hand over the reins - ranging from operations, finance, technical, compliance, human resources amongst others - to a chief executive officer and his team, it is learnt.

 The new code, a work in progress, has made ombudsmen mandatory for IOA and NSFs -with the Union sports ministry playing an active role in appointing these officials. It has also put in place an elaborate whistle-blowing legislation which guarantees complete protection to those spilling the beans on the wrongdoings in a national sports body.
 
 Sources told TOI that the government will have a huge say in the selection and appointment of the CEO and his team of professionals who will draw their salaries from the sports ministry.
 
 Federation officials who resist the idea will find themselves in the dock while federations not amenable to the new logic may even see change being ushered in by a  . “That will be an extreme measure but cannot be ruled out,” the sources said on Wednesday.
 
 The ministry wants to hire the best managerial talent in the country and is ready to pay monthly salaries according to market price. “We are ready to earmark more than a crore for salaries and other related expenses per federation. Funds aren't a problem. Our objective is to see that the IOA and NSFs fall in line,” the sources said.
 
 With a robust audit of accounts in the pipeline, presumably involving the comptroller and auditor general's office, as well as a strict annual performance review of athletes, NSFs have been presented with a fait accompli, it is learnt.
 
 The Lodha panel had specified that a separate rung for day-to-day management and guidance be created to deal with issues of cricketing and non-cricketing management. “The   and its members will have to run as companies do with specific responsibilities placed on full-time professionals with established skillsets, with reporting systems, high-level IT solutions and no interference from the governors,“ the panel said in its report.
 
 BCCI has fallen in line on this front. It's time for other NSFs to follow suit.
 
