NEW DELHI: The security officer of the Azadpur Mandi   dead a week back was killed in   after he had slapped a 17-year-old youth when he refused to remove his food cart away to make way for the trucks, police said. The juvenile and his associate   were arrested after cops scanned through more than 100 shopkeepers and loaders from the area. 

 The victim, Sumer Singh (52), was working with Agricultural Products Market Committee (APMC), when he was shot in the head from behind. Some traders told cops that Singh had an argument with someone over parking handcarts near the gate a few minutes before the incident. Singh had threatened to stop the errant drivers from entering the market if they did not comply with the norms, said traders.
 
 “The two youths were identified after some of the eyewitnesses found their movements to be suspicious,” said Milind Dumbere, DCP (northwest).
 
 CCTV cameras installed around the market were scanned, during which it was found that two youths were seen running away from the spot after the incident towards the Peer Baba Gate. The footage was shown to the staff to identify the suspects in nearby cluster areas. Love was arrested from a nearby slum cluster.
 
 During investigation it was found that the father of the juvenile is a road side vendor. For the past few days the juvenile had taken up his father’s job after he had fallen ill. A few days before the incident, Singh did not allow him to enter the Mandi as there was heavy traffic jam and he was entering from wrong side. 
 
 This led to a heated argument between them, during which Singh slapped him and broke a wheel spoke of his cart. Singh had also pushed him out of the Mandi. 
 
 The accused had called his father to tell him about the incident, who had asked him to let it go. However, the enraged juvenile had decided take revenge against Singh and roped in his friend Love Kumar to arrange for the pistol. 
 
 After shooting Singh at the back of his head, the youths fled towards Peer Baba Gate and fled on a bike parked outside the gate. 
 
