BENGALURU: The violent images of a machete-wielding man attacking a woman in an  , captured on CCTV camera, may have made the 2013 attack a global news event. But this does not mean the city police will get immediate custody of  , the ATM attack suspect picked up in Andhra Pradesh over three years later.

 With the Bengaluru case being one of attempt to murder, Reddy is likely to spend more time in police custody in Andhra Pradesh, where he is facing at least two graver cases of murder.
 
 The news of Reddy’s arrest in Madanapalle in Andhra Pradesh broke out on Saturday. But   will get Reddy’s custody only after 15-20 days, said senior police officers. During this time, cops will approach the court to reopen the case and prepare for the collection of evidence. Incidentally, the city police had filed a C report, a closure report admitting that they have not been able to arrest the culprits, way back in 2015 itself.
 
 On Sunday, a magistrate in Chittoor sent Reddy to 12 days in judicial custody. While producing him before court, the Chittoor police said that they had finished interrogating Reddy.
 
 Even though they have not asked for further custody of Reddy, there are other city police units in Andhra Pradesh which want to question him. It is suspected that Reddy was involved in the murder of a woman in Dharmavaram in Anantapur district, a murder for gain in Pileru and another murder of a sex worker at Banjara Hills, Hyderabad. After Andhra Pradesh police question Reddy in these cases, Bengaluru police can seek his custody.
 
 Bengaluru city police commissioner Praveen Sood said that they expect to get Reddy’s custody in 15-20 days, and the city police will require to question him for at least seven days. "We will be applying for a body warrant for investigation in the case, however, other police departments will question him before this. In the meanwhile, we will get the case reopened in court," he said.
 
 Sood said the Bengaluru police team which had gone to Chittoor has returned, after confirming the man in custody was indeed the ATM attacker. He said that only an initial identification has been made, where his physical features were matched. The team questioned him briefly and collected some information.
 
 Sources said once Reddy is brought to the city, a series of tests, including fingerprint analysis, comparison of video footage available and an identification parade will follow.
 
