AHMEDABAD: The Parekh siblings — living in Rajkot and Vadodara — grew anxious when their mother Malti, 75, who lived at Kalash Avenue, Swastik Society in Ahmedabad, did not respond to multiple calls on Wednesday evening.

 Himanshu, the older sibling, a deputy executive engineer with the   in Rajkot, contacted her neighbours and relatives after Bansi Meena, the domestic help living with Malti did not respond to calls either.
 
 “A visit by Gopal Birla, a neighbour, and Hetal Doshi, a relative, at around 8.30pm brought bad news. Malti had been found dead on her bed in the eighth-floor apartment. She had been bludgeoned to death. Bansi was not to be found,” said a Navrangpura police official, adding that the newspapers had not been taken in from the doorstep for two days.
 
 This is the second murder of a senior citizen who was living alone in the the Navrangpura area. The murder of Nirmala Shah, 72, at her home near   is still unsolved, after five months.
 
 Navrangpura police said Himanshu Parekh reached the city and registered a complaint for murder at 1.30am on Thursday. His complaint says he and his family have been living in Rajkot the last one-and-a-half years because of his job, whereas his younger sister, Jasmin, lives in Vadodara after getting married.
 
 “The family hired a domestic help, Bansi Meena, a native of Rajasthan one month ago. He was living with their mother and was entrusted with all the household chores. According to the complaint, Malti went to Vadodara on January 8 to live with Jasmin. Bansi was accompanying her. On January 26, he was caught stealing Rs 15,000 from Malti’s purse and was taken to the police station, but charges were not pressed. He begged for forgiveness and was retained in service,” said an investigator.
 
 The duo returned to Ahmedabad on January 27 afternoon. R V Desai, inspector of Navrangpura police station, said they found   footage from the foyer of the apartment where Malti and Bansi are seen near the elevator on January 30.
 
 “The same day, Bansi is seen leaving at around 4pm. This is the last time Malti and Bansi are seen outside the apartment. On the basis of the crime scene, we believe she may have been asleep when Bansi attacked her, repeatedly hitting her on the top of her head. The top of the bed is soaked in blood. As a pressure cooker lid is missing, we suspect it is the murder weapon,” he said.
 
 Late on Thursday night, a team from city police arrested Bansi from near Udaipur in Rajasthan. Police sources said that he fled the city and went to his native village. While the FIR doesn’t mention amount stolen or robbed, police recovered over Rs 15,000 from him, said sources.
 
 
