Three high-end hotels are being investigated by the   of the   for suspected sale of psychedelic drug LSD at parties on their premises.

 The investigations were launched following the arrest of five men in possession of LSD on March 28. One of them told the cops that they were planning to sell the drugs at The   at Sahar, Courtyard By Marriott at Andheri, and Hotel Peninsula Grand at Sakinaka.
 
 The police said the five have confessed to selling drugs “on a number of occasions” at these hotels during the parties organised with the help of top event management companies.
 
 Lysergic Acid Diethylamide (LSD), banned under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, remains one of the most popular party drugs across the world. The arrested men were in possession of 1,400 dots of LSD worth Rs 70 lakh. A dot of LSD sells for anything between Rs 2,000 and Rs 10,000.
 
 Deputy Commissioner of Police (Anti-Narcotics Cell) Shivdeep Lande said, “The cell’s Kandivali unit had arrested five youths on March 28. One of them told the cops about drugs being circulated at parties in five-star hotels.”
 
 The Anti-Narcotics Cell sources identified the accused as Chirag Jain, who studies at Juhu’s Rithambara College.
 
 The other accused have been identified as Farhan Aqeel Khan, a Std XII dropout who deals in cars and properties, Arbaaz Taj Mohammed Khan, a Bachelor of Mass Media student at Rithambara College, Laxman alias Nikhil Rajan, a software engineer, and Sameer Modi, who works for a films and TV serial production house. The police custody of the five accused ended on Thursday and they are now in judicial custody.
 
 “Notices under the Criminal Procedure Code have been issued to The Lalit,  , and Peninsula,” Lande said.
 
 Senior Inspector Sunil Mane of Kandivali unit of the Anti-Narcotics Cell said the five men were arrested in Malad following a tip-off. “They were in possession of the drugs and were striking a deal to sell them. The officials from the three hotels have also been called for questioning. We have asked the hotels to submit the CCTV footage from their parties,” Mane said.
 
 Mumbai Mirror contacted officials of the three hotels under the Anti-Narcotics Cell radar, and one of them, Rajesh Anone, the security manager at  , said he had already met the cops. “The police called me to know a few details about our pub. I’m not supposed to share details of the conversation,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Prashant Joshi, general manager of Peninsula at Saki Naka, refused to comment, while  , executive secretary to The Lalit’s general manager Manish Sodhi said she had received the police notice. “I can’t comment further on the matter as Mr Sodhi is not in the city,” she said.
 
 The Anti-Narcotics Cell officers said they have launched a crackdown on drug dealers in the city. “In case of LSD, the dots are very easy to conceal,” a senior officer said. “The most expensive version of the drug is called the Dalai Lama dot, which is sold for more than Rs 10,000 per dot. There is, what the dealers call the Buddha dot, which costs up to Rs 7,000, and the least expensive is the Lord Shiva dot, which is priced around Rs 4,000 per dot,” he added.
 
 
