HYDERABAD: With over 100  ,  ,   opting out of this year's  , the number of   in the state may go down by nearly 50%. 

 According to officials, the student-seat ratio which is at 1:3 now will go down to 1: 1 ½ in the next academic year as many colleges are not willing to continue a majority of courses next year. Some of the courses in which seats might be reduced are under the civil, mechanical, and information technology heads in engineering, besides pharmacognosy, pharma chemistry, and pharmacology seats in the pharmacy sector. 
 
 "Maybe because of the lack of demand or because of stringent rules that universities impose, many colleges in the state are not willing to continue in the next year and this is evident if we look at the number of applications received for affiliation," said Dr K Ramadas, convener, Telangana Private Educational Institutions. 
 
 He said that some of these colleges might apply with a late fee in the coming days but at least 50 of these colleges will opt out of the affiliation process. 
 
 N Yadaiah, registrar,  , Hyderabad (JNTU-H) for his part said that in the coming days many colleges might apply for affiliation. "This is a kind of trick that colleges follow as they think that if they apply first, their colleges will be inspected in the early stages. So they wait and apply with a late fee so that university won't have much time for inspection," said the registrar. 
 
 Many parents felt that the closing down of a few colleges or courses would not have a major impact on students as there are 'sufficient' number of seats in the state.
 
 "The number of seats is double the number of students who apply for the exam. So closing down of a few colleges will not affect students. On the other hand, it might improve the quality of education as students study better with an increase in competition," said AS Rao, a parent. The last date to apply for affiliation without late fee ended on Wednesday.
 
 Last year, a total of 360 private colleges, including 241 engineering colleges, 89 pharmacy colleges, and 30 MBA standalone, applied to JNTUH for affiliation. Among them, 158 engineering colleges were granted provisional affiliation with one or more branches. 
 
 It is worth to note that JNTU is planning to implement Biometric Attendance System (BAS) for both faculty and students from the next academic year, which would mean that colleges will have no option to option to play with attendance. These and other rules such as having PhD faculty, and other requirements are among other factors which are discouraging colleges to apply for affiliation.
 
 
