NEW DELHI: Toys and nappies are driving footfalls for premium lingerie on  . Data-mining revealed that young moms, looking for toys or diapers for their kids, are more likely to purchase high-end underwear from online marketplace.

 For instance, British high-street stalwart Marks & Spencer's (M&S) recent partnership with   India.The retailer, famous for its exhaustive range of women's underwear (one out of three women in UK wears M&S lingerie), plans to push its best-selling category to young, well-heeled working mothers, who pop into the online marketplace to shop for their infants, be it a pack of Huggies or a toddler rocker.
 
 "We do extensive data mining, so we know who would have searched for M&S on our marketplace," said  , head of fashion at Amazon India.
 
 Big retailers, including Amazon, depend on data collected from multiple sources, such as behaviour tracking and demographic profiling, to help them identify potential customers and approach them in the best way possible. This wealth of information, once deciphered, also enables retailers to optimise prices for customers and decide on what to sell them next.
 
 "Many players tend to have a customer base, which tends to be relatively younger in terms of age when compared with Amazon India," said Sirdeshmukh. "Our customer base is stable and slightly more affluent."
 
 Many working mothers in their 30s search for products across categories such as infants, kids wear and beauty across Amazon. "We are looking at all those touch points," Sirdeshmukh said. "So, our communication tends to be very detailed in the way that we would reach out."
 
 Well, bras aren't the only items that nappies are helping sell -there is beer too. Brick and-mortar retailer   found out through data mining that beer sales would go up on a Friday afternoon and young males, coming to store to pick up diapers for their new-borns, were responsible for the surge. The fathers, who had to stay home to take care of the baby, couldn't go out to meet friends and hence bought beer to drink at home. Walmart moved beers next to the diapers section and sales went up further.
 
