BURDWAN: Taking a cue from  , the Bengal   in its state executive meeting in Burdwan switched to the aggression mode giving a   call on   tailored to suit the Bengal soil, three days after the Left’s Nabanna March call on May 22.

 From now, all public programmes organised by the BJP will begin with Saraswati Bandana to remind people that there are some places in Bengal where schools do not allow singing paeans to the goddess of knowledge. “Ours is a free country and everyone has the right to observe religious traditions. The Trinamool Congress run state government has made a blunder by banning Saraswati Bandana in some schools. We don’t want to hurt the religious sentiments of our people,” state president Dilip Ghosh said.
 
 The Lalbazar programme planned to create a public impact before the party pracharaks reach out to most of the 70,000-odd booths in Bengal as part of the “booth chalo” programme from June 7 to June 22. The purpose is to set up booth-level committees in most booths and strengthen the existing ones before the rural polls. Party leaders have realised that the spontaneity in favour of BJP will soon subside if the party can’t provide protection to the rural people who have come out in its support despite Trinamool’s holding the away in the state. The booth-committees will serve as the primary units of protection in the run up to the 2018 panchayat polls. “We have taken the decision to thwart the ruling party’s bid to rig the polls,” the BJP state president said. The party will field candidates in all the panchayats.
 
 BJP’s main challenge is to train the pracharaks on a war-footing before they fan out to the villages. “We have 10500 committed workers ready to visit every block in the state before Panchayat elections. These party workers will reach households with the message how villagers had benefitted from various social welfare projects run by the BJP run government at the Centre,” state BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. State leaders are not ruling out confrontation with the ruling Trinamool during this campaign. “Our party workers are under attack at Basirhat, Burdwan and even Kolkata. As many as 21 BJP workers were injured in Basirhat. We will protest against police inaction at Lalbazar on May 25,” state BJP spokesperson Sayantan Bose said. 
 
