NEW DELHI: In his farewell speech in Lok Sabha after taking charge as UP chief minister,   struck a note of reconciliation, reiterating his promise of a government free of bias and one which will crack down on criminals.

 On a day-long visit to the capital on Tuesday, the Gorakhpur MP said he envisaged a new model of governance in UP which would implement PM Narendra Modi’s inclusive vision of “sabka saath, sabka vikas”. 
 
 Yogi used humour and wit to make the point that he and BJP had disrupted Samajwadi-Congress hopes when he said he was just a year younger to   and a year older to  . “I came in between this partnership... I think this could be a big reason for your failure (in UP),” he said amid laughter in the House.
 
 The new CM seemed keen to respond to allegations that he was a divisive leader with rough and ready ways, saying that though UP was often equated with lawlessness, his constituency was different. “I can say we never let a single businessman give goonda tax, no businessman was kidnapped, didn’t let anyone indulge in lawlessness, there have been 403 riots in UP but none in east UP,” he said. 
 
 The House heard Yogi in near silence, the first time this might have happened as his comments almost unfailingly rile the opposition. Dressed in his trademark saffron clothes,   said the new government would look to speedily utilise unspent central funds earmarked for the state.
 
 “Bahut kuch band hone jaa raha hai (so many things are going to be shut),” Yogi said, hinting at the imminent shutting of illegal abattoirs as well as what he has called preferential system of appointments and political favours. Shutting down mechanised abattoirs was a much repeated poll promise of BJP leaders including president Amit Shah. 
 
 “Bhrashtachar-mukt, goondagardi-mukt rajya hoga (state will be free of corruption and lawlessness),” Yogi said, adding, “Migrations from the state will come to an end as there will be jobs.” 
 
 The CM alleged that the Centre had allocated Rs 2.5 lakh crore to UP in two-and-a-half years but only Rs 78,000 crore could be utilized by the state government due to lack of vision. “Overwhelming mandate for BJP is a slap to parties who did not pay attention to development. However, I have been entrusted the responsibility and will ensure sabka saath and sabka vikas... Government will work for every citizen of the country,” he said. 
 
 Yogi referred to the PM more than once, pointing out that the Centre’s schemes such as Ujjwala -- providing cooking gas to poor households — had ensured that those most deserving of government benefits received help. “I still remember, farmers were given cheques of Rs 1,000 but they didn’t have a bank account... the current dispensation has opened 25 crore Jan Dhan accounts now.”
 
