NAGPUR: At a time the BJP-Shiv Sena government in the state has launched a massive green drive in Maharashtra, with an aim to plant 50 crore saplings by 2019, the latest report on 10-year-old plantations by the evaluation wing of the forest department is hardly encouraging. Of the 21 sites evaluated in the state, the survival rate of saplings was below 10% in 76% plantations, and between 10-30% in 24% plantations.

 The saplings were planted in 2005 all over the state. The report doesn’t mention how much money was spent that year but forest department sources TOI spoke to said at least Rs2.5 crore has gone down the drain.   was done in 34,288 hectares and at least Rs40,000 was spent per hectare in the first six years. 
 
 As per provisions of Evaluation Code 1969, evaluation is done every year by the well-equipped evaluation wing of the department for 3rd year plantation works and 10th year (2nd stage) plantation works under various schemes.
 
 The latest evaluation was done between February and June 2016, and the report was released early this month. The reports states that out of the 21 plantation sites evaluated in the state, 16 sites (76%) have survival percentage below 10% and 5 sites (24%) between 10-30%. Shockingly, no plantation has survival rate above 30% in the 10th year.
 
 The Evaluation Report (491) released by CCF (Evaluation) BS Hooda to all officials says execution of plantation operations suffered from defects, irregularities and violations. It speaks of the poor state of implementation and lack of checks and balances. The report also states that expenditure incurred on these plantations has been infructuous.
 
 As per general rule, 5% of the 10-year-old plantations were taken up for evaluation. Out of the 21 sites evaluated in 10 Circes — Nagpur, Thane, Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Yavatmal, Dhule, Aurangabad, Amravati, Pune and Kolhapur — survival at 16 sites was below 10% and at 5 sites it was between 10% & 30%.
 
 “Out of 21 plantations, four may be termed as partly successful and 17 are failed ones. Though four plantations are partly successful, the growth of seedlings in many of these sites is poor,” the report states.
 
 It further adds that there are hardly any benefits from these plantations since they have neither been able to improve the stocking nor improve the stock quality of the forest areas.
 
 Talking to TOI, evaluation wing officials admitted main reasons for failure include improper site selection, wrong species selection, poor planting stock, lack of involvement of JFMCs and locals, lack of supervision, and zero accountability.
 
 TOI had last month exposed how 14,000 saplings died in nine months at   reserve forest in Nagpur. The saplings were planted under Rs2 crore plantation drive on July 1 last year. Despite forest minister   being briefed about it, no action was taken in the case.
 
 Environmentalist Rajendra Nannaware, who is also member of Regional Environment Committee (REC), says the plantation drive has become more of a celebration. “In  , the situation is similar. No efforts are taken for sustainability of plantations. The worst part is that no one is held accountable,” he added.
 
 The report states in Nagpur Circle out of four plantation sites evaluated, three sites have survival below 10% and only one site has survival between 10-30%. Except Nagpur, Pune and Dhule, no plantation evaluated has survival above 30%.
 
 On the basis of evaluation norms, it has been reported that none of the plantation is completely successful causing huge loss to exchequer. The report says ACFs and RFOs have failed to ensure survival. Out of 21 sites, the mandatory treatment maps for only 4 were properly prepared. These maps were not verified by ACFs. It has been reported that measurement books (MBs) for only 7 sites were maintained and out of these 7, only 4 MBs were updated. 
 
 The report also observes that MBs of only 5 plantations bear signatures of RFOs and rest 16 have no signatures, which indicates that RFOs made payments without checking quantity and quality of works. Out of 21 sites, ACFs nor DCFs applied quantitative checks and signed on MBs. There was total lack of checking, guidance, supervision and control over execution and record keeping. 
 
 In some sites, nullah bunding has not been done at all causing soil erosion and degradation. For example, in Bramhapuri division, on record work was shown for 77 nullah bunds but none were found at sites.
 
 The CCF (Evaluation) has recommended recovery of amounts from the officials concerned and initiate disciplinary action against them. Action has also been recommended against ACFs and RFOs and subordinates for gross negligence. 
 
 “Such poor scenario of plantations is of great concern for the department and it is necessary for the department to rethink strategy for taking plantations and fixing responsibility as the survival of percentage is as important as taking of plantations every year. Failed plantations do not add to forests and result in infructuous expenditure worth crores of rupees every year,” said RTI activist Avinash Prabhune.
 
 
