NEW DELHI: The government on Wednesday notified the pending implementation of the 7th Central   (CPC) for the armed forces, which was kept in abeyance after the Army, Navy and IAF last year strongly complained that their persisting salary anomalies had not been rectified by the panel.

 Defence sources said the government has conveyed to the armed forces that the "remaining major anomalies will be considered and addressed separately" by the government.
 
 The 14-lakh armed forces personnel have till now not got their revised pay packages under the 7th CPC implemented from January 2016 onwards, unlike the 33-lakh central government employees who began to get it with arrears from last September, as was earlier reported by TOI.
 
 But the   in a major decision on Wednesday did approve the retention of the earlier "percentage-based regime" for calculation of the disability pension for ex-servicemen, which the 7th CPC had held should be scrapped and replaced by "a slab-based system".
 
 "The decision, which will benefit existing and future defence pensioners, would entail an additional expenditure of approximately Rs 130 crore per annum," said the government. 
 
 The armed forces feel successive pay panels have systematically degraded their status, parity and equivalence compared to civilian counterparts.
 
 The earlier September 6 notification issued by the Centre for implementation of the 7th CPC in the armed forces had not addressed any of the anomalies raised by them. Consequently, the three Service chiefs put their foot down and told the government to hold it in abeyance.
 
 The armed forces complained the new pay matrix used by the 7th CPC, which has replaced the earlier pay bands with grade pay, has used differential principles and discriminatory yardsticks for structuring the salaries of military personnel. This would lead to stagnation as well as lesser pay and allowances for military personnel as compared to their civilian counterparts at corresponding stages, contended the armed forces.
 
 
