GURUGRAM: A deputy general manager (DGM) of an Udyog Vihar-based company was thrashed and robbed of Rs 72,000 allegedly by a gang of four youths on Sohna road in Bhondsi village, police said on Wednesday. He was on his way home in his   City car on September 13 night when he was attacked. 

 Forty eight-year-old Vinay Raghav, who is working with Lumax Auto Technology Limited in Udyog Vihar Phase-IV, alleged that he was turned down by cops when he approached them on September 14, and instead they filed a case of negligence of driving against him. 
 
 He claimed he had to approach the local MLA and police commissioner to get a case filed against the four youths who had allegedly attacked him. Finally, cops filed the case against the youths a week after the incident happened. They are yet to be arrested.
 
 Raghav said he was waylaid by the assailants who came in two bikes when he reached Bhondsi bus stop around 9.45pm on September 13. The youths accused me of ramming his car into one of their bikes, he said.
 
 “I had not rammed my car into their bikes. They came, pulled me out of the car, asked me to pay for their losses and started thrashing me. I fell down on the road after they punched me on my ears. My eardrum was ruptured. The youths robbed me of Rs 72,000, which I had kept on the car’s seat. One of the assailants is Rohit, and he is from Bhondsi village,” a police officer quoted Raghav as saying.
 
 Police registered the case against Rohit alias Rattipal and three others under sections 323 (causing hurt), 379-B (snatching & use of force), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of IPC at Bhondsi police station.
 
 “I filed the complaint at Bhondsi police station last Thursday. I was admitted to a private hospital, but cops continued to pressure me and asked me to go the police station. Cops threatened me that I would be booked otherwise. 
 
 “Finally, an FIR was of negligence of driving was registered against me on Sunday. Also, cops didn’t act on my complaint. I was shocked to know that cops booked me even though I’m the victim. I had to approach the local legislator and police commissioner seeking justice. Police registered the case only on Tuesday, only after I persuaded them,” Raghav told TOI. 
 
 “We have recorded the victim’s statement and are conducting raids to nab the accused,” said ASI Balbeer Singh, who is investigating the case.
 
