AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad district primary education officer has made it compulsory for school teachers to wear hand-spun khadi every Tuesday. 

 In his circular issued on Friday, the DPO has even specified the colour of the shirt and pants for men, by attaching an image. On Saturday, a special committee of women teaching staff worked out a common code for khadi sarees and salwar kameez in four colour schemes. The DPO’s circular met stiff opposition from associations of primary and secondary teachers in the city.
 
 The state education minister, however, claims that the education department has not made it mandatory for teachers across the state. “We issued a circular last October clearly mentioning that it was voluntary for teachers to wear khadi once a week.”
 
 The DPEO’s circular even warned that teachers who disregard the circular will face penalties. Teachers’ associations in Ahmedabad have joined hands against this circular, saying that there exists no such law in the prevailing set of rules that makes wearing a particular type of clothes compulsory for teachers. “The officer is just trying to impose his will. There is no such law supporting this circular that makes khadi compulsory, otherwise the state government should have issued such a circular,” says higher secondary school teacher’s association president  .
 
 Mahesh Mehta, DPEO Ahmedabad, told TOI: “We have made it compulsory. For women teachers Ms Nilam Goswami as administrator conducted a meeting on Saturday to decide on the colour scheme for sarees and salwar kameez. Teacher’s who do not comply with this circular will invite penal action.”
 
 While the president of the primary school teacher’s association president   said, “How can anyone be punished for not wearing khadi? The DPEO should explain this in detail in his circular. We have registered our protest before the DPEO on this issue,” says Jadeja.
 
 Times View 
 
 Why restrict Mahatma Gandhi to mere tokenism such as mandating khadi for teachers? Few talk of implementing his constructive programmes. These include character-building of children in school to ensure they become good citizens, the elimination of untouchability, spreading communal harmony, and promoting gender equality. The education department should focus on implementing Bapu's ‘Rashtriya Shala’ syllabus rather than deciding dress codes.
 
