Allahabad: When the split in Samajwadi Party (SP) seems inevitable and possibility that Akhilesh-led SP faction may form an alliance with the Congress party, SP is likely to leave three Assembly seats of Allahabad for Congress.

 Among these, the City North seat may fall in the lap of Congress. This is one seat which has always seen the swing between BJP and Congress. The sitting MLA belongs to Congress and stands good chances of winning. He has won the seat in 2007 and in 2012 elections. Singh had won the seat in 2012 by a margin of 16,092 votes, beating his nearest rival BSP candidate Harshvardhan Bajpayee. Bajpayee has now joined BJP and is in the race for getting ticket from the party. 
 
 Now, if the is alliance between the two major political parties becomes a reality, it may ensure the victory of Congress candidate but jeopardise the political future of two candidates, each declared by either faction of SP. Mulayam had declared Sri Prakash Rai alias Lallan Rai as its candidate while Akhilesh has fielded district president of Samajawadi Yuvjan Sabha Sandeep Yadav as the candidate from this seat. 
 
 Sandeep Yadav has started campaigning, although without any symbol. He finds himself in an awkward situation as the possible alliance will force him to vacate the seat. “I am campaigning in the constituency but equally aware of the changing equations. It was our chief minister who has given me the chance at the age of 31. So for me, the party comes first and I will happily vacate the seat and work for the victory of my party or the coalition party’s victory on all the 12 Assembly seats of Allahabad,” Sandeep said. 
 
 Commenting on the future alliance, sitting MLA Anugrah Narain Singh said, “My party is for sure to win this seat. With the support of SP, both the parties will benefit immensely across the state and form the next government as heads of both the major parties are icons of today’s youth.” 
 
 The Assembly seats of Koraon and Bara of trans-Ganga and Yamuna could be the two other seats that SP could vacate for Congress by the Akhilesh-led SP. Sitting MLA from Bara Ajay Kumar had won this seat on SP ticket in 2012 by defeating BSP candidate Bholanath Chaudhary with a margin of 3,756 votes. Ajay Kumar has joined BJP. SP does not have a strong backing in the constituency, it is more likely that the seat would be vacated for Congress.
 
 
