The new Maharashtra Public Univer sities Act, 2016, which came into effect on Wednesday, is set to over haul the entire manner in which varsities across the state had been functioning till now.

 The Act will be implemented in a phase-wise manner with the primary focus on appointing various bodies and filling up positions. The final phase will deal with the nitty-gritty of the much-awaited students' elections.
 
 “We are focusing on statutory bodies in the first phase. The guidelines on students elections' are yet to be approved by the chancellor,“ said a senior bureaucrat in the know of things.
 
 The guidelines on appointment of new positions are expected to be specified in the next couple of days, along with the rules about formation and functioning of various administrative bodies that were hitherto operating on an ad hoc basis.
 
 The state government, in fact, had written to the universities, asking them to postpone elections to bodies like the senate, the grievance committee, management council and others till the new Act was promulgated.
 
 “The idea is to promote transparency, among other things. With this Act, there will be public representatives in bodies like the senate, academic council etc. They will make these committees answerable to the public for the first time,“ said M.A. Khan, registrar of the  .
 
 According to Khan, the Act will also pave the way for several new positions like director (ex am and evaluation) in place of controller of examinations and director ( ). Besides, the Act will also do away with the post of director of board of college and university development and his duties will be divided among the deans and campus directors.
 
 However, the government has not announced the statutes, which specify rules for appointment of governing and administrative bodies as well as representatives. The statutes will be released within a week with state education minister   confirming that they were in the final phase of approval.
 
 Tawde also said that a meeting would be convened with vice-chancellors of all the universities on March 3 to discuss threadbare the implementation of the  .
 
 
