LUCKNOW: The unilateral declaration by the   that it would go it alone in   is all set to trigger fresh realignments in the badly mauled anti-BJP camp. While the   camp is yet to come out with an official response to UPCC chief Raj Babbar’s ‘no tie-up’ declaration, SP national president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday came out with a cryptic “Agar hum kuch kahenge to badi khabar ban jaayegi (If I say anything, it will make big news).”

 After the SP-Congress alliance just beofre UP elections, both Akhilesh and Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi have been reiterating that the two parties would contest the 2019 Lok Sabha polls together. However, Babbar’s statement, which itself was a result of a groundswell of opposition from the Congress cadre during three review meetings, has almost spelled doom for the pact.
 
 The likely breakup, however, may have far-reaching political consequences, mainly on the forthcoming Presidential poll as Congress doesn’t have much on stake in the urban bodies elections. While the   parties are trying to regroup to put up a common candidate, strained ties between two key players -- SP and Congress -- hardly augur well for this group.
 
 Another signal that emanates from the Congress’s announcement about going solo is its likely shift towards the  . The two parties have already been partners in 1996 UP elections. The SP on the other hand walked out of the anti-BJP grand alliance forged just before Bihar assembly elections in 2015
 
 The Congress, by contesting UP’s urban civic polls with a renewed enthusiasm and marshalling its strength wants to have a more bargaining and commanding position before stitching up any alliance in future, keeping the Presidential polls and 2019 national general elections in mind.
 
 Congress chief Sonia Gandhi has already started an exercise of uniting the Opposition to corner the NDA on the Presidential elections. In the changed circumstances, it will be seen whether the SP will also come on board or shift to the NDA candidate.
 
 Given to the resurgent saffron power in the state, Akhilesh knows that he would need a political partner to survive the Modi onslaught, so even before the results were declared had announced that he was ready for a tie-up with any political party, including the arch-rival BSP.
 
 Same is the story of BSP too. The Congress might exploit this weakness of the SP and the BSP to emerge as a leader of the alliance against the BJP and going to the civic polls alone and showing its strength could be the first step in this direction.
 
