BHOPAL: A day after the Iqbal library was flooded with  ,   visited the library and assured all help to the prestigious building. He said that Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) would take steps to protect the library which is located at the historic  . “Fund for the maintenance of the library would be provided by the BMC. Its engineering wing has been instructed to check the drainage system and carry out adjustments immediately,” said Sharma. He was greeted by Iqbal library representative Rashid Anjum and others.

 The representatives of the 77-year-old library informed Sharma about the damage to books and other collections. It is one of the largest libraries in Madhya Pradesh having a rich collection that includes books and archives, some over 500 years old. The library would mark its 78th establishment day on October 1. 
 
 On Tuesday, Iqbal library was submerged in almost six feet of water. It was for the second time in two weeks that the basement was filled with water. It was one of the first public libraries in MP to have books and magazines in Urdu, Persian, Sanskrit, English and Hindi. The collection includes some 70,000 books.
 
 After the first waterlogging incident on August 27, Iqbal library representatives had approached Sharma during the mayor’s Choupal. Sharma had then instructed BMC officials to take immediate action. However, engineering wing failed to resolve the issue of overflowing stormwater drain that passes under the library.
 
 Sharma and Iqbal library members also held discussion regarding renovation of the library. Sharma suggested appointment of an architect for improving the library premises. He also instructed BMC officials to provide adequate space at nearby BMC building, where 40 book shelfs from Iqbal Library had been shifted. Around 38 of the 60 shelfs were shifted to nearby BMC building around September 1. None of the books that were soaked in water have been preserved or dried yet. Experts indicate that at least 50% of the library records could be lost forever.
 
