BENGALURU: The infighting in the BJP state unit intensified on Friday with the BS Yeddyurappa camp and Eshwarappa faction indulging in a war of words. 

 While party state president B S Yeddyurappa dismissed a letter criticising his decisions as an handiwork of 'miscreants' in the party, the rival camp led by party vice president M B Bhanuprakash came into the open stating that they had authored the letter and it was to highlight the authoritarian attitude of Yeddyurapp and the negative impact it is having on party cadres. Bhanuprakash and over two dozen BJP leaders, including a few former ministers, have identified themselves with Yeddyurappa's detractor, Eshwarappa. 
 
 Bhanuprakash has questioned the logic behind stopping Eshwarappa from attending a Kuruba community event. "In politics, it's but an open secret that caste and community vote banks are taken seriously. As such, what's the logic behind denying Eshwarappa permission to attend a Kuruba community event held by the Sangolli Rayanna Brigade," asked Bhanuprakash.
 
  On Friday morning, an internal letter questioning Yeddyurappa's leadership became public. Slamming Yeddyurappa for not replying to their letter sent on August 8, the dissidents said they were unhappy with the unilateral decisions taken by him with regard to appointment of the party's state unit office-bearers, district heads, party spokespersons and chiefs of various committees. 
 
 However, in Shivamogga, Yeddyurappa said he hasn't received any letter, and that if there was one, then it was the work of miscreants. Yeddyurappa said party workers shouldn't air their grievances openly and can discuss them at party forums instead. "If anyone has a problem with the way the party is being run, she or he can certainly discuss the issue with national president Amit Shah," said Yeddyurappa. The former CM also dismissed any changes in the party structure at the state or district level.
 
 However, Bhanuprakash said the appointed district presidents and office-bearers were taking decisions unilaterally and dividing the party for their personal benefit.
 
 At the other end, B L Santosh, former RSS emissary to the state BJP and now national joint general secretary (organisation), was dismissive of allegations about him being involved in creating the rift within the party. "I do not wish to react to unverified reports," said Santosh.
 
 Asked as to why the central leadership hasn't yet stepped in to sort out the difference between the two veterans, Santosh said, "I am also part of the central leadership. We have taken stock of the situation and will resolve the issue." However, in the last 48 hours neither BJP in-charge general secretary Muralidhar Rao nor any other party senior has tried to broker peace between the warring factions.
 
 According to sources, the Yeddyurappa camp is adamant about the party leadership reining in Eshwarappa by issuing him an ultimatum.
 
