VARANASI: Bickering in BJP came to the fore in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency on Friday when party workers protested against the leadership over distribution of tickets for assembly elections. 

 BJP state president  , who was in the city to address a   at Kashi Kshertra office in Gulab Bagh locality, had to face awkward moments when a group of party workers raised slogans against distribution of tickets and choice of party candidates.
 
 A visibly upset Maurya abruptly ended the meet as a group of BJP workers raised slogans like ‘Parivarvad nahi chalega’ and ‘Wapas jao’. While leaving the conference hall, Maurya pleaded with them not to raise slogans. Some party workers also tried to stop his vehicle, but the police managed to control the situation. 
 
 Along with Maurya, BJP UP incharge   also faced the ire of disgruntled party workers at a meeting held at a motel near Babatpur airport. The workers raised slogans demanding change of candidates at several seats in Varanasi.
 
 While talking to reporters, Mathur admitted that there was opposition from party workers at some seats, but made it clear that there will be no change in the candidatures finalized by the central election committee of BJP. “About 90% seats were finalized after a consensus was reached, hence there is no question of making any change in the list. The party would listen to the grievances of party workers and convince them,” he said.
 
 When asked about denial of ticket to party’s seven-time winner from Varanasi South constituency Shyamdeo Roy Chaudhury, popularly known as Dada, Maurya said that the party will ‘keep his honour intact’. He added that the BJP is a   and every worker has right to raise his views. 
 
 “There were several aspirants for each seat, but the ticket had to be given to only one. The party will take care of those who did not get tickets,” said Maurya. On allegations that some tickets were given for monetary considerations, he said that ‘those who level such baseless charges are not real BJP workers’.
 
 Maurya claimed that the BJP is going to win over 300 seats in UP polls pushing the SP and BSP to the margins. “The Congress will fail to open its account, while the SP and BSP will fail to score even a half century,” he claimed adding that the BJP will form the next government with full majority.
 
 “The BJP will keep criminals like Mukhtar Ansari and Atiq Ahmad behind bars,” he said adding that there will be ‘Ram Raj’ in UP after declaration of results on March 11. When asked about his recent statement about  , he said that the temple would be constructed as per court’s decision. 
 
