Two of the most popular topics trending in the past months were demonetization and 'Katappa ne Baahubali ko kyun maara?' While Modi's mitron were left speechless after the announcement of notebandi, the release of 'Baahubali 2' took everyone's minds off it (at least for a while), given the film's fan frenzy. The kite industry definitely seems to have taken a note of this. With the Independence Day less than a month away, the   that are flooding Delhi’s markets these days will remind you of this year’s two most talked-about topics - the year's biggest blockbuster and of course, demonetization. 

 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  We visited   in Old Delhi, the city's biggest wholesale market of kites, recently. The sellers tell us that these kites are so popular among people that they have led to a 25%increase in sales this year.
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
 The kite vendors in Lal Kuan say that although the Modi-printed kites have been in the market ever since he became the PM, the ones with new notes of Rs500 and Rs2000 on them are the latest ones to rule the market.
 
 
 
  
  Kite shops in Lal Kuan (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
  
  
 
 "We get printed kites from Ahmedabad. Ye saari wahin pe print hoti hain, aur Delhi ke saare dukaan wale fir humse leke jate hain,"says Kallu, a wholesaler in Lal Kuan. Liyakat Ali, a shopkeeper from Lal Kuan, adds, "We never tell them about the designs that we want. Wahan ke log jo patang print karte hain, woh log khud print karte hain, jo bhi trend mein hota hai. Iss baar Modi ke note aur Baahubali ki dhoom thi, toh iss saal wohi chal rahe hain." Tanzib Hussain, another kite seller, says, "The printing of these kites depend on the popularity of any topic. Iss baar yeh dono ke har jagah charche thay toh bas yahi naya hai."
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Like every year, the market sees a trend of the new designs. Since these designs are on the most two discussed topics this year, sellers say they have seen an increase in sale by 25%. "The kids want Baahubali kites but the elders prefer 'notebandi wali patang'. Baahubali aur Modi wali patang pehle bhi thi, par iss baar Modi wali patang ka pattern change ho gaya hai, aur Baahubali ki toh alag hi hawa hai," says Altaf Qureshi, a kite seller in Lal Kuan. Mohammad Saqib, another wholesaler adds, "We sell these kites at Rs230 for 100 kites. So the price for one kite is 2.30 paise, but we sell it for Rs3.”
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
