A mother of two who found it hard to catch her breath while running after them, Swati Sodhi is now a nutrition coach herself at an online portal. A self-motivated mother, she decided to shed kilos by beginning to eat clean. Her motivation drove her and after seven years of marriage, she found her passion in being a nutrition expert. She shares her journey of becoming fit from fat.

 
  Swati Sodhi
 
 
  92 kilos
 
 
 35 kilos
 
 
 Before losing weight this time, I had also lost 20 kilos in 2009 after my previous delivery. But I gained it back after delivering my second baby. This time, it got more difficult because I had two kids to look after. My husband's profession made it all the more difficult (he is a captain in Merchant Navy) which involves him staying out of country for 8 months a year. So, taking care of my kids, running after them day in and out and panting hard made me realize that I must stay fit and healthy.
 
 Not to mention, I had always been an exercise freak... be it dance, yoga, weight lifting or whatever, I kept doing something or the other. But that was before I had the kids. With two kids, it was impossible to find time for a decent meal, let alone some exercise. So I started to eat clean six days a week.
 
 
 Oats, eggs, paneer cutlets, chicken sandwich with protein shake
 
 
  Grilled or sautéed veggies with chicken/fish/paneer with rice
 
 
 Only grilled chicken and veggies with soup
 
 
 
 
 
  One meal a week which has to be Italian.
 
 
 30 minutes of weight lifting and 20 minutes of Cross Fit. For a few days, I also practised power yoga for stretching and flexibility.
 
 
  Oats cheela. For this, grind 40 grams of oats and make a paste with water and add spices to your taste. Spread it on a non-stick pan and stuff with pre-sautéed spinach, mushrooms and cheese. Voila!
 
 
  Fats are not bad, sugars are!
 
 
  While trying to get fit, I developed a passion for fitness and pursued my studies in this direction after seven years of marriage. I am now a nutrition coach at the one-of-its-kind online fitness portals named SQUATS. Many people tell me that I inspire them. So, to continue inspiring them is my main motivation.
 
 
  It's not rocket science. You just need to be head strong. If I can do it, anybody can. You must take care of the one place where you actually live: Your body.
 
 
 
 
