By 
 

 “I am not a book worm. I was very much into cultural events and I love writing. I have also taken part in debate competitions and have been an active member of debate club,” said Deepthi from  , Davanagere.
 
 Though this did not stop Deepthi from being a star medico and securing five gold medals and one cash prize -- highest marks in opthalmology in final MBBS part I, highest marks in ophthalmology in MBBS course, highest marks in the subject of physiology of MBBS course, highest marks in all pre-clinical subjects of MBBS course, highest marks in MBBS course for a lady student and highest overall in the first to final MBBS course. She will be receiving these awards at her convocation.
 
 She also had a few words of advice on how to ace the MBBS course.
 
 “The first year was a bit hectic but I enjoyed the course later on. If you clear the 1st year, I am sure anyone can clear MBBS. Because 1st year is where you need to work a little hard; the 3rd year needs attention. Though classes were boring at times, I just took down the notes, which helped me while revising during exams,” she said.
 
 Deepthi’s medical journey started in the family circle itself.
 
 “I have close to 10 doctors in my house and grew up surrounded by them. I did not think about any other profession at all. All my family members were supportive enough to guide me and clarify doubts every now and then,” she said.
 
 After coming 20th in the state in CET she opted to study in JJM Medical College, Davanagere.
 
 “I opted to study in Davanagere as my parents were also practicing medicine there. I am not a very bookish person, I just concentrated in class and took notes,” she said.
 
 Deepthi credits her parents for being great mentors.
 
 “My father is a nephrologist and my mother is a peaditrician. Since my dad was busy all the time, my mother helped me and taught me during my exams. She even sat with me day and night to make sure I was studying,” she said.Her friends too provided the appropriate scaffolding for her achievement.
 
 “My friends are a like-minded bunch of people. We always thought on the same lines about anything that came up, be it medicine, dance or debate. Having said that, I always preferred to study alone and not opt for group studies where I ended up teaching all the time and din’t have the time to revise my portions,” she said.
 
 Speaking about her future course of action, Deepthi said that teaching was her passion and she would like to pursue it.
 
 “I love teaching and I would love to go to colleges and teach as an additional career. I think I have inherited this quality of my mother. I am working on my PG admissions and would decide accordingly,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, her parents credited her for all her achievements.
 
