BHARUCH/SURAT: Farmers and citizens of Bharuch and Ankleshwar towns are up in arms against the final development plan of Bharuch Ankleshwar Urban Development Authority (BAUDA) declared by state urban development department calling it flawed and full of errors.

 Eighty-nine villages, including 55 of Bharuch and 34 of Ankleshwar, come under BAUDA and are spread across 634 square km.
 
 Jayesh Patel, a framer and a social activist, said, “It is very surprising that without proper verification a development plan has been declared by the government. The plan has enormous errors. When first draft plan was released more than 2,000 objections were raised by the stakeholders. Which included mistakes ins survey numbers, its dimension, location and zoning. Only few have been rectified as per convenience. This shows biased approach of the government.” 
 
 The land survey numbers in many villages are marked false in a plan. When a land owner apply for approval of a drawing, to get clearance he has to face trouble as to prove his survey number. How such issues can be handled by the authority is a real challenge. 
 
 A farmers’ group had challenged formation of BAUDA in Gujarat high court and the matter is pending. “Despite this, the declaration of final development plan is surprising. The urban development department first needs to resolve genuine issues raised by the stakeholders whose land is covered under the authority,” added  . 
 
 According to  , structural engineer and vice president of Bharuch Citizen Council, the development plan was having several visible errors. “The victims of this mistake will have to pray and beg before gram panchayat, taluka panchayat, mamlatdar and BAUDA to prove that survey number marked in a development plan is wrong,” he added. Jivrajbhai demanded action against an agency that made this development plan without proper verification. 
 
 The sources in the state government confirmed errors and attributed it to lack of proper staff. The development plan was declared by BAUDA on March 28 and was made effective from the date BAUDA came into force on January 7, 2012, by amalgamating functions of local area development authorities of both Bharuch and Ankleshwar nagarplaika.
 
