PUNE: After three years of a drought-like situation that dried up aquifers across the state, a   (GSDA) study in January indicates less depletion and fewer villages affected by  .

 The surveys are conducted in January, March, May and post-monsoon, in October.
 
 “Our report indicates that the condition is not as alarming as it was last year. After three years, we have seen a slight improvement as the groundwater seems to have been recharged. Even though it looks better, water has to be used judiciously,” additional director I I Shah said. 
 
 The agency will monitor how much groundwater dries up between in March and May, he added. 
 
 The annual survey recorded that rainfall in September-October last year, government schemes like Jal Yukt Shivar Abhiyan where check dams were constructed and other schemes showed results in all the divisions of the state.
 
 The report was submitted to the water and sanitation department of the state government. The agency selected 3,920 survey sites for all the divisions of the state.
 
 At least 166 talukas of the 353 surveyed have shown depletion of groundwater levels. 
 
 A total of 3,496 villages in these talukas had water levels below 1m, 306 of these had water depletion below 3m while 681 more had water depletion between 2 and 3m. Of these, 2,509 villages had water depletion in the range of 1-2m, this year. 
 
 Groundwater depletion below three metres is alarming. Dhule, Jalgaon, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Sangli, Hingoli, Bhandara and Wardha reflected loss of more than 3m.
 
 In Pune district, groundwater loss of about 1-2m was recorded in Baramati, Daund and Junnar talukas.
 
 The agency said fewer villages had been affected this year when compared to last year’s 15,960 villages in 285 talukas. 
 
 In January 2016, as many as 4,828 villages had reported less than 3m depletion while 681 villages recorded depletion in the range of 2-3m and 2,509 villages showed 1-2m depletion.
 
 As many as 841 villages in 30 talukas that had more than 20% deficient rainfall and reflected water depletion of more than 1m are likely to face a severe water crunch this summer, the report said.
 
 Areas that faced less than 20% deficient rainfall also recorded a depletion of 1m. There were nearly 1,408 villages from 52 talukas that were affected, the survey report added.
 
 Nearly 1,247 villages in 84 talukas which recorded more than the average rainfall had registered groundwater depletion of about 1m, GSDA officials added.
 
 Former GSDA additional director   said if the situation had improved it indicated conservation of groundwater to a large extent. 
 
