Chandigarh: Mohan Singh is among the fortunate few who got the authorities in India to recognise his family’s loss in the Jallianwala Bagh incident. In the 98 years since the massacre, the kin of several among those who lost their lives in the firing at Amritsar on April 13, 1919 are still waiting for the government to recognise the martyrdom of their ancestors and award reparations.

 The crux of the issue lies in the fact that there are conflicting versions on the number of people who died when British Indian troops opened fire on the crowd that had assembled in a public garden during Baisakhi celebrations defying the imposition of martial law. The British government put the figure at 379 dead and 1,200 wounded; the Indian National Congress estimated that there had been nearly 1,500 casualties, of which 1,000 had died.
 
 Mohan Singh — whose grandfather was killed in the firing — was fortunate in that he could get a Freedom Fighter Certificate issued in his name; many others have been waiting for years in anticipation. For all benefits and recognition linked to the massacre, the Freedom Fighter Successor certificate is a pre-requisite.
 
 Prem Singh, a resident of Amritsar who was among the casualties, is a case in point. His sons Amrik, Santokh, Kirpal and Harjit filed applications decades ago, but there’s been no progress. Prem Singh’s great grandson Sarabjit, who is a factory worker in Ludhiana, says, “We have got nothing from the government so far. We are trying to get the certificate. We also want compensation but the authorities are paying no heed to our demands. We have submitted our application to the Amritsar DC office, verification has also been done but no certificate has been issued yet.”
 
 Prem Singh’s grandson Harjit expresses his disappointment saying government has paid no heed to his family’s sacrifices despite the economic hardships they face today. “I have two daughters and one son who is physically challenged. We want compensation, facilities, benefits, but no one is listening.”
 
 Rajneesh Kumar Suneja who also lives in Amritsar, has a similar story to tell. His grandfather Chowdhury Buga Mal was also killed in the massacre, but the Freedom Fighter Successor certificate has proved elusive. Suneja says, “We have all the proof that our grandfather died in the firing. We have written to the authorities a number of times.”
 
 Bhushan Behl, president, Jallianwala Bagh Shahed Parivar Samiti, says there are many such families whose contributions have not been recognized yet; the government remains unmoved by their plight.
 
 “It’s more than a century (since the incident) but the fight goes on. We want to be treated at par with other freedom fighters. We are demanding pension, tamarpatra (scroll of honour), railway concession and a petrol pump or gas agency on the lines of facilities given to the kin of other freedom fighters.”
 
 A petition was also sent by the Samiti to the British government when David Cameron was prime minister to own up responsibility and compensate these families. But till date there has been no response.
 
 When contacted, Amritsar deputy commissioner Kamaldeep Singh Sangha assured that he would look into the matter. He said, “This issue is very sensitive and I will look into the matter. If anything is pending with us, we will check and do things as per rules and government policy.”
 
 
