GURUGRAM: It was not just cops in the office of a former  , but also ones at several  , who appear to have been part of the nexus that got people   for illegally bought guns.

 A majority of the rent agreements submitted to avail the fake licences were themselves fake, investigations have found. A number of such agreements highlight the lack of verification on the part of police stations. This aspect is being closely monitored, with the SIT now starting a separate probe and promising to take erring cops to task. 
 
 Meanwhile, the noose around the accused former in-charge of the arms licence branch, inspector Jasmer Singh, is tightening. His arrest is expected to throw more light on the case. Sources said vital evidence has been revealed against him. Singh was named as a collaborator by Manish Bhardwaj, the kingpin of the scam who was arrested last month. 
 
 “We have found irregularities at the police station-level during the verification of applicants for arms license. We’re investigating this aspect closely, and if any cop made a mistake in verification intentionally, he will be punished as per law. During verification, some arms licence holders submitted their rent agreements as residence proof, while other agreements were found to be fake. Cops who are involved in the lapse will be arrested soon,” said joint commissioner of police Sibas Kabiraj. 
 
 The other suspected cops, who have already been suspended, are yet to join the investigation. ASI Vikas, who was on long leave, has not joined. 
 
 His leave was cancelled by the police commissioner on Wednesday. Constable Mahesh, who was attending a training session at the centre in Madhuban, could not be located. “The accused policemen might be avoiding joining the probe because they did have a role in the scam. We’re trying to gather evidence against them. Vital evidence against inspector Jasmer Singh has been found, and we’re looking for him,” said ACP Anil Yadav, head of the SIT. 
 
 Police officers were unwilling to confirm, but sources within the department said the former in-charge of the arms licence branch will be arrested soon. 
 
 It has been a week since the gun house under the scanner, which was operated by inspector Singh, has been closed. 
 
 
