Nagpur: Birth centenary year of former prime minister and the Congress’ tallest leader Indira Gandhi will be celebrated in a befitting manner throughout Vidarbha, not by the official state unit of the party but by a large group of leaders who are tagged as ‘rebels’.

 Some former cabinet-level ministers, ex MPs, ex-MLAs and important office bearers of the party have come together and decided to organize celebration staring from September 24 to November 19, throughout the region. With Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee and its president Ashok Chavan yet to announce any such celebration in the region, this rebels group’s move is being seen as an effort to float a parallel party machinery.
 
 The decision by the rebel group was taken at a meeting held on at ‘Mahavidya’ — residence of former minister Satish Chaturvedi on Thursday. Prominent among those attending it were ex-ministers Shivajirao Moghe, Nitin Raut, Anees Ahmed, ex MPs Gev Awari and Naresh Pugalia and ex-MLA Ashok Dhawad, leader of opposition in NMC Tanaji Vanve and party chief whip in NMC Praful Gudadhe, party office-bearers K K Pandey and Nitin Kumbhalkar were also present.
 
 These leaders have been labelled as rebels for having met together, or in different groups, top Congress leaders including Rahul Gandhi and Ahmed Patel recently to demand removal of MPCC president Chavan as well as AICC general secretary Mohan Prakash from in-chargeship of Maharashtra for their failure to manage party affairs. Some in the group are also being accused of sponsoring an ink-attack on Chavan when he visited the city soon after the corporation elections in which the Congress fared dismally.
 
 This group is also opposed to ex-MP Vilas Muttemwar and city Congress unit president Vikas Thakre and blame for the party’s downfall since 2014. They also want to meet Rahul and Sonia Gandhi again and invite them for the   celebrations. 
 
 If this parallel activity succeeds, it could consolidate the growing demand for urgent revamp in the party and force the Central leadership for a precipitate action.
 
 
