NAGPUR: Even though the   has   resources at its disposal, it has been struggling to find a language expert who can translate from English/Marathi to Hindi.

 Due to this bizarre fact, Class X (SSC) board exam has one subject whose question paper just cannot be printed in Hindi because of lack of a translator. Hindi medium school students have no option but to choose between an English/Marathi question paper for the compulsory   (ICT) exam (see box).
 
 A teacher from a government-aided school said, “I am aware of letters sent to the board apprising them of this situation wherein Hindi medium and even Urdu medium students facing huge problems, but nothing has changed. It’s gross injustice to the students.”
 
 Another teacher said, “It’s so weird that the board cannot print Hindi question papers. Hindi medium students are primarily from north Indian families where Marathi is just not spoken. So for them, it is almost an alien language. Also, Marathi is not spoken widely in Nagpur as compared to Mumbai and Pune. Their comfort level with English is very poor even though we teach a basic level of that subject in school.”
 
 Gangadhar Mhamane, state board chairman, told TOI that they are in the process of sorting the issue out. “The textual content for the course is not available in Hindi due to which the question paper also is in not available in that language,” he said.
 
 “However, students can answer in Hindi itself. It’s just that they have to take a different language’s question paper. But now, we have got a draft Hindi translation for it and the board is vetting it. I am confident that by the next board exam, this problem will be solved,” he added.
 
 A city school principal said it was very unprofessional of the board to give such excuses. “There are over a thousand highly qualified Hindi language teachers in government schools alone. Are we saying that none of them have the ability to translate content from English/Marathi to Hindi? And since ICT is a compulsory subject, the board has to ensure that it is available in all languages for which students appear,” she said.
 
 To tide over the language problem, students usually take help of invigilators, said another teacher. “As of now, Hindi medium students appearing for   get help with questions from the invigilator. Majority of them take the Marathi question paper and the questions are really not that tough and can be easily understood,” he said.
 
 The teacher said that there are quite a few students who understand majority of the questions in English. “Help is needed for a just a few questions but still, even one question is too many. It just shows that sometimes the state does not think over their plans in a hurry to implement changes,” he added.
 
 
