LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh   chief   on Saturday claimed responsibility for Congress’s poor electoral performance in the state and added that the party will hold a series of state and micro level meetings to assess the reasons for the loss.

  Congress’s strength in the UP Assembly has been reduced to seven MLAs from 28 in 2012. This time, the party had fielded 114 candidates in alliance with Samajwadi Party. 
 
 Seeking to emphasise that the Congress’ loss was less worse than media projections—Congress won Punjab and was front-runner in Goa and Manipur—Babbar said the loss in UP may be attributed to multiple reasons which will require looking into. The state chief who had earlier volunteered to step down from his post, also said it was too early to say whether the alliance, or bringing in Prashant Kishor as consultant, had done the party in, electorally. At a function to felicitate Congress’ newly elected MLAs, Babbar also responded to media queries and said   could not be held responsible for the results in UP considering he had also devoted time in the other states where the results were in favour of Congress. “Congress has won three of the five states where elections were held and this goes on to prove that Rahul Gandhi was successful in his mission,” Babbar told reporters at an event where the seven newly elected party MLAs were felicitated.
 
 Babbar also said he will meet Congress’ candidates who contested the assembly polls but remained unsuccessful on Sunday. “We will try to assess the reasons for the loss,” he said. Meanwhile, on Sunday, UP Congress’ disciplinary action committee chief Ram Krishna Dwivedi issued a showcause notice to former MLC Naseeb Pathan for demanding AICC general secretary in charge Ghulam Nabi Azad’s ouster from his post as UP in charge.
 
  Pathan had said Azad took several decisions without consulting party members and that they were against the better interest of the party. He also demanded that Azad should be removed from his post as UP in charge. Dwivedi, on Saturday, also sacked Rajesh Singh, secretary UPCC, for six years, for putting up ‘missing’ posters for Prashant Kishor. Singh had promised a cash award of Rs 5 lakh for anyone who would locate Kishor. 
 
