When it comes to an individual’s sartorial choices, it is always better that your choices bespeak your taste and personality giving you a distinct look and an edge over others. However, when you are a part of the glamour industry, always surrounded by media, fans and arclights and i, one has to make a little extra effort to give their style a different touch. After all, most actors are also role models and style icons that the youngsters constantly are following on various social media sites. We speak to the young hearthrobs from the film industry of Gujarat decode their   choices, at any and every given event and find out what makes them show stoppers.

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 A well fitted suit or a tuxedo in black.
 
 Depending on the time of day, I would add a pair of funky blazer on denims and t-shirt
 
 Kutchi dhoti paired with a nice kurta with half koti or even a blazer
 
 Anything that is comfortable
 
 Ranbir Kapoor and Akshay Kumar
 
  It is great to experiment, but make sure you always feel comfortable in it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  A black coloured Tuxedo for sure. I might add a different colour bow-tie just to make it cool a littler funkier.
 
  A nice comfy full sleeve shirt paired with denims, slip-ons and nice sunglasses. 
 
  I would certainly wear something very traditional, like a nice kurta-pyjama teamed with a Nehru jacket.
 
  Depending on the weather and time of the day, would prefer denims with shirt or shorts with t-shirt.
 
  Hrithik Roshan and Pierce Brosnan
 
  Always wear clothes that complements your body structure and makes you feel comfortable.
 
 
 
 
 A well-fitted suit teamed with a nice plain coloured crisp shirt. As for colours I would prefer black or navy blue.
 
 Denims paired with sweatshirt
 
 If I’m simply attending the wedding then something traditional and if I’m doing all the running around, then fitted denims with a crisp shirt and a nice watch.
 
 The most comfortable one — denims and tee 
 
 I’ve always loved Ranveer Singh and Leonardo DiCaprio as their fashion sense is quite unique
 
 Always wear a classy watch according to the event and you entire look is sorted.
 
 
 
 
  A well fitted tuxedo with nice formal pointed shoes
 
  A plain coloured shirt with well fitted denims paired with slick back hair
 
  I would prefer something very traditional maybe a bandhgala with dhoti or a nice kurta (with little work on it) with pyjama and jooti.
 
  Full sleeve t-shirt with either linen pants or denims, and a knit hat if it’s cold or a hat if it’s summer.
 
  Gabriel Macht, from Suits
 
  Ripped and distressed denims can break your look entirely.
 
 
 
 
  I usually prefer something semi casual. I like to wear jackets and vest coats on denims paired with a crisp shirt. 
 
 Denims paired with shirt, in either pastel or nice lovely colours, that suits the time of day and weather. 
 
  I would love to wear a nice traditional and bright coloured kurta with chudidaar or dhoti and a head gear if it is a thing in the wedding.
 
 Depending on the time and weather either denims or shorts paired with breezy and comfy tee.
 
  Ranbir Kapoor and Ryan Reynolds
 
  Always make sure that the colour of shoes and belt is matching. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Nothing can beat the elegance and grace of black Tuxedo, my favourites.
 
  Denims and a comfortable shirt, classy shades and casual shoes. You don’t want to be worried about your clothes on a good and fun filled date
 
  Something traditional — a kurta with a little work on it paired with chudidaar and a long jacket if it isn’t too hot.
 
  Denims or shorts or line pants paired with cool tees 
 
  Hrithik Roshan
 
  Although androgynous fashion is in, always stick to things that make you comfortable. 
 
 
