PANAJI: Sensing an opportunity to dethrone the   (BJP) government and to encash on the party’s political rivalry with its erstwhile allies, the Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) is expected to go for a “seat-adjustment” in Panaji. Party insiders suggest that the grand old party is open to an alliance with Atanasio Monserrate’s United Goans Party (UGP) and the Nationalist   (NCP).

 Expectations of a pre-poll alliance with Goa Forward (GF) are likely to come to naught with Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai’s “blackmail tactics” not currying any favour with Congress leaders.
 
 “It is likely that there will be some kind of seat adjustment with Babush (Atanasio Monserrate) and maybe for Priol. Babush is asking for Cortalim and that is why the discussions are stuck. The Congress will not negotiate on Cortalim,” a source close to political developments within the Congress said.
 
 The Congress is expected to “endorse” Priol independent candidate Govind Gawade. In Cortalim, Congress aspirant Mariano Rodrigues is virtually assured of getting the party ticket and the party is not open to negotiating on the seat.
 
 Cortalim is also on the radar of the NCP, which is keen to form an alliance with the Congress. The NCP candidate for Cortalim is Nelly Rodrigues.
 
 Sardesai has repeatedly sent feelers and sought an alliance with the Congress while simultaneously taking pot shots at the Congress and its senior leadership, which has not gone down well with the party. Aside from   and a few other Congress MLAs, party workers are dead against GF.
 
 “Has Vijai joined Goa Forward? Who are we negotiating with? Has he joined Goa Forward?” a party worker questioned.
 
 Party workers and Congress block committees have openly expressed a desire to rebuild the party from the ground up and have rejected the notion of any alliance and the Congress senior leadership appears to be in sync with the sentiments.
 
 “If we get the leaders will we get the people? Or if we get the leaders will we lose the people? We are not desperate for power. We want to win the people,” AICC secretary Girish Chodankar said.
 
 
