MANALI: It was two years back when the commercial tourism activities in upper Manali beyong Vashisht village were banned by the   (NGT) until they are regulated by the Himachal government. Time has passed but the state has failed to prepare and submit guidelines for the regulations to uplift the ban.

 While efforts have been made to resume activities in Marhi, below Rohtang, activities in lower areas including Solang are still waiting to be resumed. Area beyond Solang is blocked with snow since December and will open after April. Hundreds of tourists are visiting Solang to see snow these days but are not getting to enjoy any activity like skiing, zorbing, ATV and snow scooter rides. Even the local women are not allowed to rent out traditional dresses for photography purpose.
 
 The tribunal had ordered to prepare a plan to regulate the activities in a controlled manner. The administration had to make some guidelines and get it approved from the government. Hundreds of families have been left unemployed as they have nothing to do to.
 
 “My family totally depends on tourism for livelihood. We were told that government will mark a space for us where we can work. It is going to be two years but nothing has been done so far,” a local woman   said. Another woman  , who had come to see ongoing skiing competition at Solang, said some people who have their private land near Solang are organizing activities for tourism in their land but besides that nothing.”
 
 Few people from villages in upper Manali are employed in government or private sector. Over 98 % population is dependent on tourism activities. As they are unemployed for months, their financial condition has affected. Villagers blame that they even requested chief minister to regulate things immediately but nobody their voice was not heard.
 
 District tourism development officer   said guidelines to regulate the activities have been prepared as per directions of deputy commissioner. “Documents will be forwarded for government approval soon,” he said. Manali sub-divisional magistrate HR Bairwa said tourism and forest departments have been directed to select and mark the land.
 
