PUNE: The Shivajinagar police station’s beat marshal on night patrol nabbed three persons on robbing spree near the Pune Municipal Corporation headquarters in the early hours of Friday.

 The trio — Shankar Chavan (21), Sachin Ovhal (22) and Yogesh Ghodke (24) from Hadapsar — had robbed two men at the bus stop near the PMC office between 12.45am and 2.45am on Friday. “Before they could target their third victim, beat marshal Someshwar Mahadik nabbed them,” said sub-inspector S S Kale of the Shivajinagar police.
 
 He said the motorcycle-borne suspects had beaten up 19-year-old Suryakant Kanmus around 2.45am on Friday at the bus stop near the PMC headquarters and robbed him of cash and cellphone collectively worth Rs5,200.
 
 Residing in Pune at present, Suryakant — an employee of a private agency — hails from  . The incident happened when he was waiting for a bus to go to his native place.
 
 A few minutes after the incident, the beat marshal reached the spot for patrolling. Seeing him, Suryakant informed him about the incident. “Beat marshal Mahadik alerted the police station and took Suryakant with him to trace the suspects,” Kale said.
 
 He said when Mahadik and Kanmus reached near Kamgar Putla slums, the latter identified the trio. “Seeing policeman, the suspects started running away, but Mahadik nabbed them. By then, our team also reached there and took them into custody,” he said.
 
 Kale said the police found a wallet containing Rs1,140 while frisking the trio. “We also found a number in it and contacted the person, who identified himself as Vishwajeet Sarkar (40) of  . He told us that the trio had thrashed him and robbed him of cash and wrist watch around 12.45am, when he was sleeping at the bus stop,” he said.
 
 Kale said he summoned Sarkar to the police station. He also identified the suspects and lodged a complaint against the trio.
 
 Kale said three robberies occurred near the PMC office from January this year. “We are suspecting the trio’s involvement in these incidents. They are in the police custody for two days. Our probe is on,” Kale said.
 
 
