NEW DELHI: Investing in customer service makes more business sense in India than perceiving it as a cost. Eight out of 10 Indians said they are willing to spend an average of 21% more for better service, according to a recent survey.
 
 Furthermore, 84% Indian consumers said the quality of customer service is very important when they’re deciding to become or remain a customer, revealed the findings of the   customer Service Barometer.
  
 “While deciding which car to buy, more than the look or feel of the car, I research on the after sales service of the carmaker in that area. Service is an investment. It helps you get more business in the long run,” said  , senior VP, American Express Global Servicing Network—Japan and Asia Pacific.
  
 Customer service attributes can make or break a company, Kapur added, while comparing the success of India’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki with some of its rivals that lag behind. He also touched upon the importance of investing in digital resources in customer service.
  
 Not only have Indians used social media for sharing their feedback, the survey said, around 64% of them have also used social channels for availing customer care services, the highest compared to   (59%),   (35%), Hong Kong (47%) & Japan (19%).
  
 “While customers in India are evolving fast when it comes to digital, companies have just started to respond,” said Kapur. “For instance, one out of our four customers are acquired digitally. And that number is growing exponentially.”
  
 In addition, consumers in India (30%) are more open to using messaging tools including, live chat and SMS than their counterparts in markets such as Hong Kong and Italy (26% each) and Mexico (25%).
  
 Indians (39%) are also more open to using self-service tools (apps, kiosks, voice assisted etc.) than all other markets, however there is still a strong preference to speak with a real person (44%). “Earlier, there would be a big difference between those numbers. Now, they are almost neck to neck, which shows how fast Indian consumers are evolving digitally,” said Kapur.
  
 
