By A G Rao

 Today, we stand at the brink of a digital transformation and the current economic climate demands smarter operational methods of business. The challenge is to stay ahead at this time along with factors such as global demographical shifts and the growing competition. With digital and technology playing a key role in all processes, systems and methods, the coming months will see an adoption of processes where a majority of the conversations in India will be around the integration of people and technology. Hence, use of   tools to increase transparency and to reach out to employees is crucial.
 
 New ways of working are emerging and employment security for individuals is more critical than ever before. This security depends on having the right mix of in-demand skills and the ability to stay relevant. There is an increase in need for employers to engage with individuals to develop their skills at every stage of their careers. Employers need to take extra effort towards skilling their employees and providing them with adequate training to adapt to new technology. As technology continues to evolve, we see the emergence of a skills revolution. With compressed business cycles forcing shorter skills life-cycles and unprecedented pressure on margins, unleashing the human potential becomes the world’s economic and societal sustainability saviour. Here’s how:
 
 Creativity, people management, emotional intelligence, and negotiation are skills that will tap human potential and allow people to augment robots, rather than be replaced by them. Skills cycles are shorter than ever and 65% of the jobs   will perform do not even exist today. Rapid growth in demand is also expected across almost all industries and geographies for data analysts required to make sense of big data. A similar projection is also being made for specialised sales representatives to commercialise digitised offerings. In HR, too, headcount is set to increase in the short term as they steer companies through this period of adjustment The new potential opportunities are occurring to the ever evolving investing landscape.
 
 Internet of things — wearable devices, robotics, unified control modules and sensors, and telematics — may spark some tech, industrial, and energy stocks
 
 In the information technology (IT) sector, cloud computing, software as a service ( ), and big data continue to attract a large percentage of corporate technology spending. The pace of change in   (AI), too, is accelerating, with certain tech companies emerging as key leaders
 
 The banking sector is feeling the influence and disruption of innovative technology in the form of fintech companies that are redefining customer interactions which will further create opportunities
 
 Right skills give big power
 
 Those with the right skills will call the shots, create opportunities and choose how, where and when they work. We cannot slow the rate of technological advance, but we can invest in employees’ skills to increase the resilience of our people and organisations. Individuals and fresh graduates also need to nurture their   — their desire and ability to learn new skills — to stay relevant and remain employable. 
 
 Campus placements serve as a huge competitive platform for aspiring students seeking to get placed with the top notch employers of the nation. These are characteristics that employers notice which candidates must keep in mind during their placements:
 
 The first and the foremost thing is to do your homework thoroughly. You must know what’s on offer. Make a list of potential employers after carefully assessing your potential, interest, aptitude and the job profile that is likely to be offered This will simplify the process for you.
 
 In order to crack an interview, Apart from skills and knowledge in your segment of interest/role, you are expected to keep information about your college as well. Be well prepared, attend trainings and mock interviews to let the hesitation out before your final interview
 
 Be prepared: Prepare fresh professional curriculum vitae for the campus placement drive. Highlight your strengths and strong points. Keep it short and simple and make the most of it in two pages
 
 Don’t be very rigid. Be flexible and open to learning. Don’t let compensation be the only factor to decide and choose the job
 
 After zeroing in on potential employers and profiles, match your expectations with that of the employers’ and try to gain an insight into whether you are a right fit for the role or not. Try to analyse the job offers on parameters that matter to you such as flexible timings, role and growth opportunities
 
 Besides all the factors, Non-verbal communication also plays an important role. Your appearance, tone of your speech, expression of confidence, body language, eye contact, listening ability and other physical postures — all are imperative to get you through an interview
 
 Brush up your skills and keep yourself up-to-date. Emerging technology is making a large number of jobs superfluous in the tech industry. One can beat the gathering gloom in job market by equipping yourself with the latest tech skills. Evolving technology has opened up a vast space as businesses chase innovative solutions
 
 In a nutshell, digitisation and growth in skilled work will bring opportunities, as long as organisations and individuals are ready. People will increasingly find they need to up-skill and diversify into new areas. Skills adjacency, agility and learnability will be vital. In the coming times, the nature of jobs will continue to morph. If you keep an open mind and are receptive to change, it will be easier for you to survive in the tumultuous world of work.
 
 The writer is group MD,   India. All views are personal
 
 
