Ahmedabad: It was a moment of great pride for thousands of citizens of traditional pols of the city on Saturday night when the Walled City of Ahmedabad was inscribed as a Unesco World Heritage Site for its unique architecture, way of life, and 600 years of history interspersed with multiple rulers and religions, and enriched by the catalysis of constant social change.

 Desai ni Pol in Khadia celebrated the accomplishment by distributing sweets on Sunday morning as elders rejoiced at the significance of the title. Later, a cake was cut at Heritage House of Jagdip Mehta. Prominent citizens celebrated the occasion. 
 
 “This was a long-awaited recognition. We celebrated with fireworks,” said Sanjay Patel, a resident of Kalupur. “The Unesco status will boost conservation efforts in the Walled City, which faces problems ranging from maintenance of heritage properties to encroachment. Now, citizens will be encouraged to participate in heritage conservation.”
 
 “We now have to ensure that the heritage movement isn’t restricted to the elite; it should belong to the masses,” said Dr Hemant Bhatt, the president of the Khadia Itihas Samiti, an organization responsible for painstakingly putting together the history of the area known for political and social leaders “Many research opportunities are available to document traditions such as water conservation, caste- and community-specific architecture and local food. We have also proposed the painting of facades of iconic areas such as Desai ni Pol in uniform colour,” 
 
 Now, the city’s administrators will be under pressure to perform better and implement policies. The heritage tag is not permanent. The civic administration must expedite development plans - Abhay Mangaldas, founder director, House of MG 
 
 Heritage is not just monuments. It’s also age-old traditions carefully conserved by citizens. Practices become heritage and heritage becomes inheritance. Now, it’s our responsibility to take the legacy forward - Chandan Nath, mahant, |Guru Manek Nath Gadi
 
 
