NEW DELHI: Finance minister Arun   cited robust tax data on Monday to argue that the cash squeeze as a result of   did not make any significant dent on growth or manufacturing.

 Jaitley said direct taxes rose 12% during April-December while indirect taxes rose 25% over the corresponding period last year. Excise duties during this period rose 43%. The FM said that in December, indirect taxes rose 14.2% compared with the same month in the previous year, with excise duties rising 31.6%.
 
 There has been intense debate about the impact of the cash squeeze on the economy, with some experts saying the December tax data would show the extent of damage to the economy and the manufacturing sector.
 
 
 
 Since there has been a considerable debate in the public space as to the impact of the currency squeeze in the months of November and December, the data of these two months becomes relevant,” finance minister   told a news conference.
 
 “All the stories about job losses or businesses suffering losses are anecdotal,” the FM said. “This data is real. This is the money which has come in,” he said, pointing to the healthy tax data.
 
 The government had scrapped 500 and 1,000 rupee notes on November 8 and had imposed cash withdrawal limits as it implemented its demonetisation drive aimed at stamping out black money, counterfeiting and corruption.
 
 Data released by the   ( ) last week showed the economy is expected to grow at 7.1% in 2016-17 -- its slowest pace in three years --but the numbers do not take into account the impact of demonetisation. Experts say growth could slip to below 7% once the impact of demonetisation is factored in. The data showed that the manufacturing sector was witnessing a slowdown.
 
 Economists said the buoyancy in tax collections could be due to some advance taxes being paid.
 
 “We were expecting revenue buoyancy to go up because of demonetisation and that seems to be reflecting in these numbers. However, the full year growth rates would significantly depend on the overall GDP growth as well as compliance,” said N R Bhanumurthy, professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP).
 
 “I think some advance taxes for the next quarter might have been paid. However, we have to look at these numbers carefully,” he said.
 
 Net direct tax collections up to December were Rs. 5.53 lakh crore, 12% more than net receipts for the corresponding period last year. This is 65.3% of the total budget estimates of direct tax collections in the current fiscal year.
 
 Gross corporate income tax (CIT) receipts were 10.7% while personal income tax collections rose 21.7%. However, after adjusting for refunds, the net growth in   collections is 4.4% while that in PIT is 24.6%. Refunds amounting to Rs 1.26 lakh crore have been issued during April-December, which is 30.5% higher than the corresponding period last year.
 
 After accounting for the third instalment of advance tax received in December 2016, the collections under advance tax stand at Rs 2.82 lakh crore, which is 14.4% higher than the corresponding period of last year. Advance tax under CIT is growing at 10.6% while for personal income tax it has grown 38.2%.
 
