JODHPUR: The   has ruled to maintain the sanctity of   (MDPs) of cities and demanded development projects to conform to land uses specified by the plan.

 While pronouncing the order on Thursday on half a dozen petitions related to deviations in MDPs of six cities, including Jaipur, Jodhpur, Ajmer, Kota, Udaipur and Bikaner, the division bench, comprising justices   and Arun Bhansali, issued a 33-point direction and asked the state government to file a compliance report by May 22.
 
 In its order, the bench has said that if the eco-sensitive zone/ecological zone/green area, specified in the MDP, has been established, no change will be made during the operative period of the plan.
 
 “In any case, change of the land use of the green zone and the peripheral control belt, will be as an exception to serve the larger public interest, but in accordance with the procedure laid down, maintaining transparency and with assessment of environment impact,” the order said.
 
 The court order, which has directed to frame a township policy, said that residential colonies, developed with approved layout plans, would not be used for any commercial purposes, and locations have to appropriately specified for constructing multi-storey buildings.
 
 About city development, the bench said that authorities and the state government would take immediate steps to check   over public ways, footpaths and in the width of 100ft of a highway.
 
 “Local authorities will enforce the building bylaws strictly and no construction shall be permitted in deviation to the approved plan,” the order said, calling for immediate action in case of any deviation found from the approved plan.
 
 With the parking problem becoming a big issue, the court, emphasizing on providing compulsory parking spaces in commercial buildings, has directed the existing buildings with no parking space as per the plan to restore parking areas within the time frame given by local authorities. If such buildings fail to do so, they shall be sealed and appropriate penal action taken against defaulters.
 
 Showing concern for environment in urban areas, the court has directed industrial areas to be located away from residential areas and called for setting up green areas between industrial and residential areas to buffer housing zones.
 
 Directions also include a drive to remove all encroachments constructed over natural resources and pasture lands and unauthorised activities operating thereon.
 
 In its order, the court has also given directions to the state government to constitute a high power committee with experts to frame the relocation scheme regarding the shifting of hazardous industries in the vicinity of residential spaces and file a report before the court.
 
