INDORE: While authorities with the police department are making efforts to identify black spots in and around the city, they seem to have failed to address traffic issues at  . The square is one of the busiest intersections in the city and driving through it has become a nightmare for motorists as it witnesses heavy traffic round the clock.

 Also known as  , the square connects   square, Radisson square, Khajrana area and MR-9. Since the area is densely populated, a large number of vehicles, especially two wheelers, cross this square and it often becomes difficult for drivers to cross this junction.
 
 The absence of a traffic signal also adds to woes of commuters who already face enough   at this junction. The lack of a traffic signal here leads to frequent accidents. Cops are deployed there but drivers behave as if they are not even there. They do not wait for others on the road while crossing this intersection.
 
 Locals have also been demanding traffic signals at this junction. “There is no light at this square and the traffic is completely haywire,” said Priti P Sainy, a commuter who regularly passes this square. She added that concerned authorities should take measures to improve the condition of traffic at this junction on a priority basis.
 
 People also complain about the presence of traffic personnel having no effect. Though cops are deployed, they only focus on issuing challans.
 
 Even motorists have to be extra careful while crossing this intersection as vehicles do not wait at this junction to allow others, especially pedestrians, to pass by. The lack of a traffic circle or rotary also adds to woes of commuters. “It is risky to cross this square. Motorists and even pedestrians do not look right or left before crossing the roads here. Vehicles do not wait while crossing the square due to the absence of traffic signals,” said Sunil Jataw, a shop owner in the area.
 
 Traffic authorities should deploy cops at this square to regulate traffic. “Cops are seen in the mornings but instead of regulating the traffic here they are seen stopping vehicles just to check their papers and issue challans,” said Shishir, a commuter.
 
