Mohali: For the last ten years or so, the municipal corporation (MC) has failed to remove the illegal slaughtering houses in the form of meat market kiosks in Phase XI. Residents of the area have approached the MC for lodging their complaint over the failure of the civic body to remove the illegal slaughter house.

 Taking the complaints seriously, municipal commissioner Sandeep Hans said that he will monitor the activity himself and ensure that the menace is removed from the government land. It must be mentioned here that the MC had managed to shift the illegal fish being organized daily at Phase I and VI but has failed to shift this meat market.
 
 Ward number 33 councillor Jasbir Singh said, “This illegal meat market has become health hazard in our ward for the last ten years. There are around 8-10 kiosks operating from there and selling unchecked meat. Moreover, they also throw the waste material in and around the place. The waste emits foul smell which makes living a hell in Phase XI. They have been encroaching upon the MC land which the civic body has failed to get vacated.”
 
 One of the residents, Karan Singh said that their house is just across the road on the corner and the slaughter house is just a few meters away. He said, “It is not possible for us to open the window towards the road side as instead of fresh air, foul smell fills up our house and thus it becomes impossible to sleep.”
 
 Sandeep Hans said, “I have recently taken the charge and today some of the residents appraised me about the operations of illegal slaughter houses near their area. They also told me that the MC has so far failed to remove the kiosks. I will get it enquired that why we have failed to act for in the last ten years.”
 
 Recently, the Mohali deputy commissioner had ordered the closure of illegal meat shops and dairies near Jagatpura village and other places in and around Mohali.
 
 DC Gurpreet Kaur Sapra, had asked the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) to close down the illegal shops selling meat, which attracted birds, adversely affecting flights at the airport here.Sapra said illegal construction work would not be permitted near the defence establishments and offenders would face legal action. She said defence and police personnel should keep an eye on illegal activities and carry out surprise checking and joint patrolling.
 
 
