LUCKNOW: Currently reviewing performance of   (SP) in the recently-concluded Assembly polls in the state to arrive at a reason for the party’s loss, national president   said “SP could not find the glue to bind voters together.”

 “Every party needs a glue to hold its voters. We could not. The development I brought in the state did not act as the glue,” said Akhilesh, who has been meeting party workers from districts across the state and has reviewed more than 200 of the 403 constituencies of the state. The election saw the SP tally in the Assembly come down from 224 to 47.
 
 Quoting Karl Marx’s famous take on religion – ‘religion is the opium of the people’ -- the former UP chief minister said SP did make religion the glue.
 
 “Development, peace and progress have not worked as the glue to bind voters,” speaking for the first time on a probable reason for SP’s defeat.
 
 “Samajwadi Party ended at number two position in 172 constituencies. A look at the votes polled by party candidates shows a rise in support for our party but we lost nonetheless. There are a number of seats where the party polled 30,000 to 60,000 votes in 2012. But this time, candidates lost in these seats despite polling around one lakh or a little less,” he said.
 
 “This shows that support for the party has not only remained intact, it has gone up in many place. But, we lacked the glue that could have made us win the election,” he added.
 
 He said BJP exploited the surgical strike in the elections and branded those who did not follow the BJP line as anti-national.
 
 “My father,  , was the Union defence minister. Many of my in-laws are either serving in the Army or have retired from the Armed Forces. We do not encash this for political gains. We do not display our patriotism and our love for the nation on our sleeves. Lot of boys from UP have become martyrs. Find out how many from Gujarat join the Armed Forces,” said Akhilesh.
 
 He said that while the alliance with Congress will continue, he may consider being at the national level and may consider fighting the   election in 2019. “I have not decided on this yet but it’s a thought I may consider,” said Akhilesh, adding that he may consider fighting from Kannauj parliamentary constituency which he represented and gave up after he became the chief minister in 2012.
 
 He said that he is open to joining hands with any party to keep the BJP at bay in the upcoming municipal corporation elections and by-elections in UP.
 
 
