BENGALURU: For Shobhana Raman,   was just an alternative to medicine. But as she graduated from   after a 16-week certificate course in biosciences, Raman, along with 109 other graduates, stepped out confident of doing well in the field. 

 The convocation ceremony was held for students enrolled for the   KGI certificate programme in biosciences, which is held in collaboration with Keck Graduate Institute, and the 8-week-long BITS   in applied industrial microbiology. And it was the women who stole the show on Wednesday.
 
 “We leave from here with a sense of how the industry works. When I studied biotechnology in college, it was all in the classroom and I realized that there is so much difference between the classroom and the industry,” said Aaishwarya Mathur of the Biocon KGI batch.
 
 Getting a job was the toughest, added Shobhana. “I got to know about this academy while looking for jobs in the sector. Everyone wants us to have experience, but they don’t realize that we need to start somewhere as freshers to gain experience,” she said.
 
  The academy, founded by  , chief managing director, Biocon, bridges the gap between education in the field and the industry. The ceremony saw 110 students of the fifth, sixth and seventh batches of biosciences programme and second batch of microbiology programme graduate.
 
 Representing the first batch from Malaysia, Shyamala Asohal said: “Back in Malaysia, people are often unsure about possible career opportunities in the field of biotechnology. But today I feel extremely proud to hold this certificate.” 
 
 And for these students, their beloved ‘Kiran ma’am’ is their idol. “One week into the course, and we were extremely drained out. Kiran ma’am told us that now is not the time to be worn out, but the time to seize the opportunity. She always inspires us,” said Priyanka Belgaonkar of the BITS Biocon certificate programme. 
 
  India’s bio-economy has much scope 
 
 Many other industries need to do their bit to bridge the gap between education and employability. Biotechnology and biosciences will create a bio-economy which is crucial for every country. India’s bio-economy has a lot of scope as we have to look at agriculture and food technology, healthcare, sustainability, energy and so on. Biotech can focus on all of this. To do justice to this industry, we need scientists, thinkers and innovators. If one doesn’t have the appropriate human resource, this can’t be achieved. We have so far taken ideas from outside our country, but the future is about those who are curiosity driven and out-of-the-box thinkers
 
 Kiran Mazumdar Shaw | CMD, Biocon 
 
 
