NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court-appointed   on Friday termed former   president   and ex-vice-president  , both disqualified to be office-bearers in the board or any cricket association, as "disrupters" who prevented the cricket body's June 26 Special General Meeting from adopting court-mandated reforms.

 The court issued notices to Srinivasan and Shah and sought their response by July 24 to adjudicate how, despite disqualification, they were nominated by   and   to participate in the SGM.
 
 Senior advocate Parag Tripathi, appearing for CoA, said both Srinivasan and Shah gained back-door entry into the SGM and created chaos and disruption to prevent the SGM from adopting the SC-accepted recommendations of the Justice Lodha panel. Tripathi said Srinivasan and Shah were disqualified under the new eligibility norms fixed by the SC after accepting the   recommendations, but surprisingly, the two state associations instead of sending their elected office-bearers decided to send these two "disqualified persons" as their nominees to attend the SGM.
 
 The CoA's status report, submitted to a bench of Justices Dipak Misra, A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud, said: The SGM held on June 26 was manifestly disruptive. Before this meeting, substantial consensus had been arrived at as a result of mutual deliberations between the CoA and various constituent members of BCCI.
 
 "Such disqualified persons are effectively able to do indirectly what they have been prohibited by the SC from doing directly. Such disqualified persons have a vested interest in stalling implementation of the SC judgement because, if the judgement is implemented, such disqualified persons will have to relinquish control over their respective state member associations," it said.
 
 CoA also trained its guns at treasurer Anirudh Chaudhry for keeping silent during the "disruptive" activities of Srinivasan and Shah on June 26. "Chaudhry remained a mute spectator, lacking courage or conviction to speak in favour of implementation of the reforms," it said. "As a result, the SGM did not even vote on any matters (including adoption of the new BCCI constitution)."
 
 
 
 
 After keeping him on tenterhooks for six months, the SC on Friday dropped contempt of court and perjury charges against ex-BCCI president Anurag Thakur for allegedly attempting to stall the court-mandated implementation of reforms in the cricket board.
 
 Personally present before a three-judge bench headed by Justice Dipak Misra, Thakur tendered a fresh unconditional apology.
 
 
