HAPUR (UP): The EC unveiled the assembly poll dates on Wednesday but a bunch of slogans that could headline the political campaigns are already on display in  .

 For several weeks now, beaming faces of politicians greeting the voter with folded hands have replaced real estate promos and mobile phone ads. Even walls in small towns and kasbas, usually colonised by quacks promising cure for intimate ailments, are awash with political slogans. And no, none of them is talking demonetisation yet. At the moment,   seems to have the largest display space on the 70km highway stretch from Ghaziabad to Garh Mukteshwar.
 
 PM   is clearly the most visible face of his party followed by   and  . “Na gunda raj na bhrashtachar Ab ki baar Bhajpa sarkar (Neither the rule of goons nor corruption, this time vote for a BJP govt)“ is its most used catchphrase.
 
 On the Meerut-Hapur road, the hand-painted Congress slogan -“27 saal UP behaal (UP in disarray for 27 years)“ -stands out. Congress last governed UP 27 years ago. Eleven Congress CMs have ruled the state and one of the slogans goes: “UP mein tha dum Kahan pahunch gaye hum (UP used to be so strong Look how deep we have plummeted).“
 
 Smart, succinct catchph rases are also being copied by rivals. For instance, one came across the slogan “Congress lao, pradesh bachao (Elect Congress, save UP)“ as well as “Baspa lao, pradesh bachao (Elect BSP, save UP)“. One cannot say who used it first.
 
 An ambitious SP slogan proclaims, “Sapa lao, desh bachao (Elect SP to save the country).“ Whoever penned the line seems to have overlooked the fact that SP has been in charge of the state for the past five years.
 
 With the final outcome of the feud in SP's first family yet to be known, some of its politicians have gone for general slogans: “Jaat ki na paat ki Baat hai vikas aur samman ki (It is not about caste but about development and honour).“
 
 And a poster on NH-24 outside the camp office of an SP official plays safe, showing both Mulayam and Akhilesh in equal size. Being the CM, Akhilesh has the advantage of being able to project himself through his government's work. This reporter spotted a truck in Hapur with a huge photograph of his with the slogan “Ban raha hai aaj, sanvar raha hai kal (Constructing today , shaping tomorrow).“
 
 BSP slogans lack the pungency of the past. The party has come a long way since the aggressive “Tilak taraju aur talwar, inko maaro joote char“. One of its prominent slogans is: “Sabki suraksha, sabki laaj, aesa hai   ka raaj (Protection for all, honour for all, that's Behenji's rule).“
 
