At least two coaches who worked closely with the India under-17 squad preparing for the World Cup later this year have rubbished allegations that former coach   abused his players, both physically and verbally.
 
  Physical trainer Sven Febveber and medical coach   have told the   (AIFF) in separate mails that the German coach “worked in an exemplary manner” and found all allegations hard to believe.
  
  “This is by no means understandable and believable,” wrote the highly-qualified Sven, who was roped in to help with the physical conditioning of the players after many of them were found wanting.
  
  Interestingly, Sven and Timo, both Germans, were part of the Indian contingent during the last two international tours – Atletico Paranaense U17 International tournament in Brazil and Granatkin Cup in Russia – after which allegations surfaced that the players no longer wanted to train under Nicolai.
  
  “The reports are abstruse and untrue. Nicolai worked in an exemplary manner and has done an excellent job with the team in a short span of time,” said Sven.
  
  Medical coach and physiotherapist Timo Krammig said the accusations, which he learnt through media reports, were incomprehensible.
  
  “I met a team that worked extremely professionally with the players. Both training and regeneration, as well as the treatment of injured players, meet the standards I am accustomed to from Germany,” Timo wrote in his mail to  , Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the India U-17 team.
  
  “In all the efforts to the well-being of the players on behalf of the coach team, I can only classify the accusations that are now raised against this very team as unfounded and completely absurd. I am firmly convinced that the charges against the coach team will prove to be untenable,” said Timo, who has more than two decades of professional experience under his belt.
  
  The AIFF, though, were not moved by the statements of support from both coaches and maintained that they were forced to act after the entire team made the allegations in an official letter. Even the Indian support staff – manager Velu Dayalamani, goalkeeping coach Mario Aguiar and physio S Babu – have all testified against the coach.
  
  The AIFF parted ways with the German coach less just eight months before the Under-17 World Cup kicks off in six venues across the country. Portuguese coach Luis Norton de Matos has now been handed charge of the team and he is expected to conduct his first training session alongside assistant coach Hugo Martens on Monday. 
