PUNE: Citing the death of seven citizens in accidents involving PMPML buses in the last 34 days, the city-based   has raised grave concerns about the casual approach of the transport utility towards rash driving by its drivers.

 The Manch said as many as 14 people have been killed in accidents involving Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) vehicles in the last six months. This calls for a time-bound independent inquiry of each accident and fixing of responsibility, the commuters’ body said.
 
 Jugal Rathi of the Manch said involvement of PMPML buses in fatal accidents was a serious issue and the transport utility should take up the matter on priority. “A detailed investigation is needed of every accident to find out reasons behind the fatalities,” Rathi said.
 
 In a letter addressed to the PMPML chairman and managing director  , city mayor Mukta Tilak, commissioners of Pune and   civic bodies, district collector and divisional commissioner, Rathi has urged them to initiate urgent corrective measures to ensure safer public transport.
 
 “The PMPML chief needs to focus more on   and ensure that the transport utility becomes commuter-friendly. We have made suggestions to the authorities to seek recommendations from experts to prevent accidents. Based on the recommendation, PMPML should prepare an action plan to ensure safety of commuters and pedestrians. This plan needs to be executed in a time-bound manner to bring improvement in the services,” Rathi said.
 
 The PMPML runs over 1,000 buses every day on various routes in the city. The commuters and road users have been complaining of rash driving, lane cutting by PMPML drivers resulting into accidents.
 
 The Manch has recommended PMPML to work in coordination with RTO, municipal corporations of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, traffic police to work out effective solutions. It has also asked PMPML authorities to provide timely updates on the inquiries and also publish the action plans and status of implementation.
 
