MUMBAI/AHMEDABAD:   targeted the BJP yet again by rolling out the red carpet for  , the Patidar leader of Gujarat and a BJP baiter, at Matoshree on Tuesday. The two leaders held discussions for 45 minutes. Patel was shown the late Balasaheb's room, which is Matoshree's sanctum sanctorum.

 While Patel parried questions on politics, Uddhav said at a press conference that the 23-year-old Patidar rebel could be the face of the SenaPatel alliance in the coming Gujarat assembly polls.“Why can't he be our face in Gujarat?“ Uddhav asked a correspondent who wanted to know more about the SenaPatel alliance. Curiously, Hardik told reporters in Gujarat that his potrayal as Sena's face in Gujarat polls was not discussed. Uddhav Thackeray told be fore media that I will be the face of Shiv Sena in Gujarat assembly polls. But I need to clarify that my visit was apolitical. I went there to meet the Thackeray family. I have always insisted that I will not contest polls as my singular aim is to win reservation for Patidars,“ Patel said.
 
 Patel also said he was ineligible to contest polls. “I cannot fight elections as I am only 22 years old,“ Patel added.
 
 In Mumbai, Hardik said, “I think I have family ties with the Thackerays. These ties go beyond politics. I will always be there for them whenever the need arises,“ said Patel, adding, “I have come to seek the blessings of Uddhavji and the late Balasaheb Thackeray .“ Patel added that he was happy to step on the soil of Maharashtra -the soil of Mahatma Phule, Veer Sa varkar, Chhatrapati Shivaji and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar.
 
 In reply to a question, Patel said he was fighting to create a “fearless“ society and administration in Gujarat. “The Gujarat government has slapped two sedition cases against me,“ he pointed out.
 
 Uddhav said the Sena has decided to team up with Patel in the larger interest of the country and society. “We believe in friendship.We never ditch our friends... It's a different matter if a friend calls off ties,“ the Sena president remarked, referring to the recent fracas in the  .
 
 The Sena cleverly used Patel's Mumbai visit to try and woo Gujaratis, which the BJP prizes as its most dependable votebank, ahead of the BMC elections, said observers. The Sena hopes to improve its tally in the suburban wards of Borivli-Kandivli, Malad, Ghatkopar and Mulund on its new-found affection for Gujaratis. The Sena strategy is to tap the simmering ire among Mumbaikar Gujaratis following PM Narendra Modi's demonetisation drive. “The mercantile community is upset with BJP following upheavals in the business world in the wake of demonetisation. They have begun to tilt in Sena's favour,“ said Sena functionary Anil Parab.
 
 Matoshree has offered nomination to several leading Gujaratis of Mumbai for the BMC election.Mangal Bhanushali, chief of the city Gujarati cell of BJP , recently defected to the Sena. He has been fielded from Mulund, a Gujarati bastion of BJP. Jeweller Paresh Soni, a leading figure in the city's bullion market, is the Sena candidate in Borivli (W). In the evening, a police posse did not deter Patel from openly endorsing the Sena at a function in Goregaon. The local Sena candidate, Biren Limbichiya, was not granted permission by police to attend the function.
 
