PATNA: Students of schools located on   face   almost every day as their buses and autorickshaws get stuck in  . At least 16 prominent schools are located on this road. 

 Despite ban on movement of heavy vehicles on   road, where at least nine schools are located, things have not improved in the last nine months. Sources in schools said in July last year, Patna traffic police banned plying of heavy vehicles and tractors on Jaganpura road between 6am and 5pm. The decision was a boon for the students, but only for a short period as the situation was back to square one in no time.
 
 C B Singh, director of D Y Patil Pushapalata Patil International School, said, “Heavy vehicles are still officially banned on Jaganpura road. However, trucks and tractors enter the road to avoid rush on Bypass Road. Many overloaded trucks take turn at Sampatchak and enter Jaganpura road to escape check posts on Zero Mile.”
 
 “We have deployed 10 traffic volunteers as per the direction of traffic police. Local schools pay these volunteers. The road is extremely narrow and a small congestion creates heavy jam. If the police imposed penalty on violators, it would be more appropriate,” he said.
 
 One can realise the situation from the fact that around 13,000 kids study in nine schools on Jaganpura road.
 
 Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, principal of Baldwin Academy, said school buses of Patna City and Anisabad routes get stuck in traffic jam at Bypass Road for several hours. “It is a nightmare ride for the students and teachers, especially during summer. The government should do something to address the problem,” he added.
 
 Some schools on Bypass Road have even urged the traffic department to deploy its personnel near the schools for the safety of kids from heavy vehicles. 
 
 Arunodaya, deputy chairman of Krishna Niketan School, said the school has urged the district administration to set up a police check post at Zero Mile for smooth movement of vehicles. “We have deployed 28 security guards to clear tractors and trucks near the school premises. If the administration takes steps, it would help students reach the school on time,” Arunodaya added.
 
 Traffic SP Prantosh Kumar Das said the department will take strict action against the violators. “If heavy vehicles enter into the no-entry zone, they will have to pay the penalty ranging from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000, depending on capacity of vehicles,” he said.
 
 
