KOLHAPUR: The   has set up 13 teams consisting of 300   from the   to collect   (flowers offered during prayers) for the 10-day   to be held in August this year. 

 Civic body chief Abhijeet Chaudhari had called a meeting of heads from respective departments of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), on Wednesday, to discuss about the preparations for the festival.
 
 In one of the ‘Man Ki Baat’ programme, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had praised the efforts taken by the city-based organisations to ensure that the Ganesh festival is held in an eco-friendly manner. During the meeting, the members discussed about the preparations and assured that the citizens will observe the festival in 100% eco-friendly manner, this year. 
 
 R K Patil, environmental officer of the KMC said, “Large number of Ganesh idols are donated every year. We will ensure that the citizens donate these Ganesh idols and not immersed them in the Panchganga river or other water bodies. We have set up 13 teams to collect Nirmalya this year. These teams will be entrusted with the task to collect plastic waste so that it does not mix with other organic wastes. This will help the official decompose the waste into good quality manure.”
 
 The civic body will be offering the Nirmalya collected to the city-based Avani and Ekati organisations. These organisations converts these flowers and other offerings to the god into organic waste manure. The whole process is done in Washi. 
 
 The KMC is going to appeal the mandal operators to not to use any plastic material during the Ganesh festival. Plastic plates and cups are used usually used for Mahaprasad (meals). These operators will be asked to deploy their staff members to keep the premises clean and dump the waste into the bins. The KMC will empty these bins every third day during the festival. 
 
 “There are various norms that have been set for erecting pandals, however these conditions are never followed. We have decided to initiate a joint operation with the police officials and ask them to act against such mandals. A team will be formed at the ward office level to ensure that they do not flout the norms. New immersion sites have also been identified and awareness about the same will be created among the followers,” Patil added. 
 
 
