PATNA: Chief minister   has given in-principle approval to the draft   (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017 and directed the urban development and housing department to table it before the state cabinet for approval so that it can be notified before April 30.

 The Rules will cover all the new as well as the ongoing projects which have not been issued completion certificate. The real estate projects consisting of eight or more flats will also be governed by the new Rules.
 
 The Rules prescribes that the pricing of apartments be based on the carpet area, not super built-up area. The carpet area has been defined as the usable spaces like the balcony,  , kitchen and toilets.
 
 Nitish gave his approval to the draft at a review meeting of the urban development and housing department at the CM secretariat on Wednesday. He also asked the department to form an urban engineering organisation, on the lines of other public works organisations.
 
 Urban development and housing minister   said the new cell would have 577 engineers. “The cell will add to the efficiency of urban local bodies to execute civic works. The engineers will be recruited at the headquarters level and work for the urban local bodies across the state,” Hazari said.
 
 Nitish also asked the Patna municipal commissioner to make   assessments on the basis of utilisation of the properties.
 
 The state real estate Rules follow the Centre-notified Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) of March 2016. Every state was supposed to frame rules for implementation of the RERA within six months. Later, all states were asked to finalise the rules by April 30.
 
 RERA prescribes compulsory registration of all ongoing and upcoming real estate projects, penalty to builders against delays and punitive measures, including jail term, for fraudulent builders. The developers are also required to disclose their project details on the website of the regulator along with quarterly updates on the progress of the project. 
 
 In case the project is delayed, the builders, and not the flat buyers, will have to pay the monthly interest on the bank loan taken for the flat. The builders will also have to open a separate “escrow account” to deposit 70% of the money collected for the project. They will be allowed to make withdrawals from it only for construction purposes. 
 
 An appellate tribunal will also be formed to hear the real estate-related grievances.
 
