Nagpur: Already entrusted with the task of supplying 6,000 mid-day meals (MDMs) to students of ZP and NMC schools by the state government and NMC, Akshaya Patra, which was set up in Nagpur last September, is all set to increase the number of meals to 25,000. The programme is run to ensure that students in these government primary schools (1 yr to 5 years) and upper primary schools (6 to 8 years) get to study on a full stomach. “We have been told by teachers and principals that the attendance in schools has improved, and the students are able to concentrate better after the meal,” says Prashant Bhagat, head of operations here. An initiative of ISKCON temple in Bengaluru, the NGO runs 30 kitchens, which provide meals to 1.6 million students in 13,800 schools across 12 states. “Our motto is unlimited food for education, and we try to ensure that no child goes without food and education,” says Bhagat. All the food is called prasadam, as it is first offered to god, Bhagat adds. The kitchen in Nagpur, which was inaugurated by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, is the first such initiative in the state. It was fully sponsored by Vandana Datar Tilak, an NRI residing at Los Angeles in the USA, and operates the Akshaya Patra chapter there. The second unit in the state has recently come up at Thane. “The biggest kitchen is in Ahmedabad, which supplies meals to four lakh students, with the next largest in Vrindavan, which caters to 1.5 lakh students,” informs Bhagat. Built on an area of 4,000 sq ft, the kitchen in Nagpur employs 50 people, which includes two qualified chefs and a quality control manager. Only one meal is prepared as of now. “The existing capacity is sufficient to prepare 25,000 meals too,” says Bhagat. The kitchen serves satvik food, without onion and garlic. “For a month, when we started, we were serving vegetable khichadi and most of it would come back unconsumed. Then we discovered that in Maharashtra spicy food is eaten, and we started serving daal tadka, masala bhaat and spicy curry,” informs Bhagat. The kitchen maintains standards set by FSSAI and HACCP, and utmost care is taken to ensure that no contamination or foreign material gets into the food. “We use bio-degradable liquids to clean vegetables, vessels, and the kitchen floor and walls,” says Roopanshi Kamal, in-charge of quality control. Akshaya Patra runs totally on donations. “We have this scheme where a donation of Rs950 can feed one child for a year. So far, in Nagpur, we have spent Rs2 crore, which we got from our headquarters in Bangalore. Not a single rupee has come to us from the city,” says Bhagat and adds that donations can be made by corporates or individuals here. “We can even send our cashier to collect the amount and give a receipt, but we would like the donors to visit us so they can see the kitchen too,” he adds.