KARWAR: Although health department officials have been working hard to complete the   (MR) vaccination drive in  , the campaign has run into trouble at   in Bhatkal taluk. Of the 7,198 students at Urdu medium schools in the taluk under 15 years of age, in the taluk, a mere 1,287 have been vaccinated so far.

 Sources allege that the problem began when miscreants doctored a video of a TV news channel broadcast on the MR vaccine, to spread misinformation about its effects. Dubbing the MR vaccination ‘Modi-RSS vaccination’, the miscreants alleged that the vaccine was part of a larger programme by the Centre to arrest the Muslim population in the country. The doctored video further claimed that the vaccine would decrease fertility among women, and turn men impotent. The video subsequently went viral on social media. In fact, the situation got out of hand, with parents turning up at schools in Bhatkal to drive away doctors who were trying to administer the vaccine.
 
 Taking cognisance of the gravity of the situation, the health department deputed two Muslim doctors Dr Husein Khaji and Dr Salim Ilkal to convince parents of the children studying at Urdu medium schools. In a bid to enlist the support of Muslim clerics, the duo has been visiting mosques across the town, and spreading awareness about the vaccine. “We inform them that the vaccination drive is being carried out in Muslim majority countries as well. We tell them that it prevents diseases in the child,” said the two doctors.
 
 Health workers and doctors said that they had been prevented from administering the vaccine to children at most Urdu medium schools. “The parents should volunteer for the drive. We can’t force them. The drive will not succeed if such majority of the children from the Muslim community are not administered the vaccine,” a doctor said.
 
 District health officer for Uttara Kannada Dr G Ashok Kumar said, “We are trying to convince the parents that there will no problems to the child because of the vaccine. I am confident of vaccinating all children in the district.”
 
 
