LUCKNOW: Signalling a fresh round of feuding in battle-scarred Samajwadi Party,  , the younger daughter-in-law of 
    Yadav, told TOI that her election campaign was sabotaged by party insiders. Saying she was hopeful that the differences will be settled, Aparna also said former chief minister  , her brother-in-law, should keep his word to his father and hand over the party’s reins to him like he had promised to, before the polls.

 “In January this year, Akhilesh bhaiyya promised that after the assembly elections he will hand back the post of SP national president to Netaji. He says he is a man of his words and that he keeps his promises. Now, I think he should live up to his promise,” Aparna said.
 
 During the peak of SP family feud in January when Akhilesh took over as the SP chief, he had sought three months’ time from his father. He had also said he would hand over the party rein to Mulayam after the assembly elections.
 
 “Right now, my family is everything to me. Netaji’s word is final and until he is there, I can think of nothing else. I am upset that he was treated the way he was, and, that he is unhappy. I don’t know what’s in store in future. Now I only want the family to unite,” she said.
 
 Aparna blamed sabotage by some party leaders for 
  from the   constituency. She accused senior party leaders of not supporting her during the campaign. “I contested from a constituency that the SP had never won. We built a team, but it could never work cohesively because of ego clashes. I took up the matter with both Netaji and (Akhilesh) Bhaiyya, but nothing could be done.”
 
 Praising Yogi Adityanath for making a “positive and secular” change in UP, Aparna believed the ‘Mahant’ chief minister would treat and develop UP as his family.
 
 “He (Yogi) needs to be given time. So far, I have discussed animal welfare with him, and I have found him very positive. I thought the decision on slaughterhouses is good because it seeks to bring them within a legal framework. But the government should rehabilitate those who have lost their livelihoods because of this decision,” Aparna said.
 
 The Yadav ‘chhoti bahu’ said she also liked Yogi’s comparison between Surya Namaskar and the postures during Namaz. 
 
 
