BHAGALPUR: Trouble for dismissed   ADM Jayshree Thakur continues to mount after the Economic Offence Unit ( ) of state police submitted a chargesheet against her in the special vigilance court.
 
  The chargesheet was filed under various provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988. Thakur, it may be mentioned here was posted as land acquisition officer of   and Bhagalpur when a case of disproportionate assets was lodged against her in Patna in July 2013. Her unaccounted wealth had surfaced soon after she deposited Rs 7.32 crore in the Bhagalpur-based Srijan cooperative bank for women in July 2013.
  
  She had also been accused of accumulating disproportionate assets worth over Rs.19.02 crore. In a span of 17 years of her service, she remained posted in her home town either in Banka or Bhagalpur for most of the period, thanks to her close proximity to a former minister in the first term of   rule in the state.
  
  The allegations against Thakur were that she exerted official influence to increase the rates of lands manifold that were being acquired for railways project and some industries in Banka by taking money from the interested parties including for the land that was owned by her.
  
  The EOU had reportedly unearthed large number of bank accounts. She had also acquired 23 acres of land in Banka in the name of her kin and made huge investments in real estate. Documents seized show that she had purchased flats and plots worth crores in the name of her daughter, son and husband   in Patna, Bhagalpur, Banka and Godda (Jharkhand). The estimated value of the flats is over Rs 2.4 crore. Ornaments worth Rs 48 lakh were seized.She also owned three luxury vehicles. EOU had then seized 60 passbooks of different banks, including of a women’s cooperative bank run by  , a Sabour-based voluntary organisation.
  
  According to EOU sources, the dismissed ADM had transcended all limits to earn money through fraudulent means. She has now gone underground to evade arrest.
