PUNE: A   here has rejected the bail application of a man accused of sexually assaulting a three-year-old girl in a   in May last year.

 “Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case, the applicant accused is not entitled for bail and hence, his plea is liable for dismissal,” additional   ruled on January 7.
 
 Accused Bappi Kamal Sarkar and the survivor’s mother were working in the same hotel-cum-lodge. 
 
 In her complaint, the mother stated that her daughter had accompanied her at work around 7.30am on May 17 last year. Around 11am, she found the girl absent and started looking for her. She saw her daughter running out of the hotel’s store room with the accused chasing after her.
 
 When she inquired, her daughter told that the accused had removed her clothes and inappropriately touched her private body parts. The complainant reported the matter to the hotel owner. 
 
 Thereafter, the girl fell ill and complained of inflammatory pain in her private part. Her mother then lodged an FIR with the MIDC Bhosari police and Sarkar was arrested on May 26, last year.
 
 Police have charged Sarkar for offences punishable under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 4, 6 and 8 (sexual and aggravated penetrative  ) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.
 
 Sarkar pleaded that the medical evidence did not indicate an offence of rape and there was an inordinate delay in the filing of FIR against him. Also that he had been in jail for a long period and was the only earning member in his family, he sought bail as the trial might not conclude in the near future.
 
 However, the court observed that though the medical documents prima facie did not show an offence of rape, the crimes under Sections 4, 6 and 8 of the POCSO Act were also levelled against him and the same were of serious nature.
 
 On the FIR the court said, “No doubt, there was a delay. However, the effect of delayed FIR would be considered at the time of the final hearing and not at this stage.”
 
