VISAKHAPATNAM: Citing ill-health and other reasons, five   including an area committee member (ACM) and a member who worked as a sentry at   surrendered before the   on Saturday.

 The surrendered naxals were identified as Gemmeli Chandramma alias Akhila of Peda Agraharam village in GK Veedhi mandal, Lacingi Macchaiah alias Matyaraju of Eguvavalasapalli village in Balapam panchayat in Chintapalli mandal, Korra Lakshmana Rao alias Minju and Korra Subba Rao of Sariaveedhi in Injari panchayat of Pedabayalu and Takkiri Hedebin of Dabuguda village in Kudumulagumma mandal of Malkangiri district in Odisha. 
 
 Except Hedebin, all the others had stayed away from Maoist activities for the past few years, sources said. Chandramma had been arrested by the   in 2005 and since then, she had no contact with the Maoists.
 
 Addressing the media at the district police office, Rural SP Rahuldev Sharma said the surrendered naxals were vexed with the Maoist ideology and suffered from ill health. “Chandramma was an ACM of Kalimela dalam in Malkangiri district who joined the naxals in 1998. She was actively involved in various offences. Her husband Guda Nageswara Rao alias Suresh is also a Maoist of Pappulur dalam in Odisha. Chandramma was involved in the raids at Darakonda outpost in 2000, Kalimela police station in 2001, coffee pulper unit blast in Visakha agency in 2001, exchange of fire at Palakajeedi in Visakha Agency in 2005 and exchange of fire at Pujariguda in Odisha in 2005. She was arrested along with her husband in 2005, but was released in 2007,” he said.
 
 Armed militia commander Mastyaraju was involved in the Essar pipeline blast and the famine raid at Balapam village. He was also involved in the murders of former home guards Rambabu and Rammohan in Joharghat in 2013 and Balapam panchayat president Sinderi Karla in 2014, the rural SP said. 
 
 Hebedin was involved in the exchange of fire at Ramaguda where 31 Maoists and their sympathisers were killed on October 24 last year. 
 
 
