KOLKATA: The vandalism at CMRI has brought to the fore the issue of inflated bills and undisclosed charges that end up burning a hole in the patients’ pockets. A majority of fracas across private hospitals is triggered by billing disputes which invariably precede charges of negligence and wrong treatment. While the chief minister’s call for stricter measures against vandalism in hospitals and vigilance on billing met with a guarded response from the private healthcare sector, the latter admitted that there was scope to make the charges more transparent and rational.

 Even as private hospitals have adopted a wait-and-watch policy, some admitted that regular bill updates were not provided, often leading to a shockingly huge amount for which patient parties are not prepared at the time of release. This was more common for prolonged hospitalizations that invariably lead to a huge amount, said Alok Roy, chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital. “Failing to update bills even for two days may result in a difference of Rs 50,000. It often happens that hospitals take it easy without caring to keep patients’ families informed about the exact bill amount. It is necessary to keep them in the loop on a regular basis rather than surprising them with a shockingly huge amount at the time of release,” explained Roy. Private hospitals were keeping fingers crossed till the meeting with the state government scheduled on February 22. 
 
 “We follow the package system which makes sure that patient parties know about the possible expenditure. There are minor deviations from the expected amount which haven’t proved troublesome so far. But we are eager to know if the government has a better suggestion and would certainly like to improve the system if possible,” said  , director, east,  , which is the parent body of RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS).
 
 AMRI Hospitals, too, claimed over-billing has never been an issue with them. “But, since the state has mentioned a regulator for vetting bills, we would like to find out details. It may not be a bad idea to have a kind of uniform check or cap on billings,” said  , CEO. 
 
 
