RAJKOT:   emerged the unlikely hero as   emerged triumphant over   in   10's first Super Over, scoring 11 runs to Gujarat's six. Mumbai appeared to be coasting to victory in a chase of 154 but Gujarat put in a brilliant performance in the field, effecting four direct hits, to tie the game and take it into the Super Over. Pollard struck a four and six for MI but McCullum and Finch came a cropper for Gujarat in the Super Over.

 Needing 11 off the last over, MI started off the right note when Krunal Pandya, who'd earlier taken three wickets, smashed a six off the first ball from  , making his IPL 10 debut, but managed to only equal the Lions' score after   came up with direct hits to leave first Jasprit Bumrah and then Pandya short of their crease.
 
 The visitors needed only one off the final ball, but Pandya's run out took the game to the Super Over.
 
 In the penultimate over, Pathan had done brilliantly well to run out Mitchell McClenaghan with a direct hit from third man. To make things difficult for them after they managed only 153 for nine after choosing to bat first, the Lions' lost their best bowler Andrew Tye, who was injured badly in the while fielding in the deep, but fought valiantly.
 
 A cracking 70-run knock by   (44b; 9x4, 1x6) helped the Mumbai Indians get off to a familiarly quick start despite the failure of all the other top-order batsmen. The worst thing for MI was the scratchy show of skipper   (5 off 13 balls), as seamers Basil Thampi (3-29) and   (2-29) bowled their heart out to lead the Lions' amazing fightback.
 
 Mumbai's little-known 'mystery spinner' Ankit Soni, who gave away merely 16 off his four overs, besides taking Nitish Rana's wicket, too played his part. Earlier, Tye showed that he can chip in with the bat too, when the situation demands. When he walked in, it looked doubtful if the Gujarat Lions would even bat out through their 20 overs.
 
 Suffering a rare malfunction, their top order, barring young gun Ishan Kishan (48, 35b, 6x4, 2x6) had collapsed badly to leave the hosts struggling at 101 by the 16th over.
 
