NEW DELHI: After India demolished   at the UN for waving around a   of alleged atrocities in Kashmir, Pakistan said yesterday India is "seeking to hide behind a photograph".

 "Raking up (a) picture can't hide India's war crimes in occupied Kashmir," said Tipu Usman, a counsellor at Pakistan's permanent mission to the UN, to the UN General Assembly ( ) on Monday. He tweeted parts of his address and posted a summary of it on Facebook.
 
 Usman's comment came after India exposed the fact that Pakistan on Saturday used a photo of an injured girl from Palestine and lied that she was from Kashmir. Pakistan's ambassador to the UN, Dr  , brandished the Palestinian girl's photo in the UNGA and said, dramatically: "This is the face of Indian democracy".
 
 India subsequently called out Pakistan's lie.
 
 Paulomi Tripathi, secretary with India's permanent mission to the UN, held up two photographs, together. In one hand, she held a photograph of young, braveheart martyr Lieutenant Ummer Fayaz, who was killed in May by Pakistan-based terror group operatives in Kashmir. In the other hand, she held a picture of Pakistan's UN ambassador waving around the Palestinian woman's photo at the UN.
 
 Then Tripathi declared: "The true face of Pakistan is not hidden from anyone''.
 
 Pakistan, inexplicably, interpreted that comment as India hiding. In all its comments about the injured Palestinian woman's photo, not once did Pakistan mention that its representative had lied about the photo. Instead, Usman talked about India's alleged atrocities in Kashmir.
 
 "India who kills and tortures innocent Kashmiris is seeking to hide behind a photograph. This shows its desperation and a vain effort to conceal its guilt," said Usman.
 
 He also spoke at length about injuries sustained by Kashmiris after security forces used pellet guns. Again without mentioning that Pakistan lied about the photo, Usman said there are "thousands of" pictures of injured Kashmiris for everyone to see. He alleged that that India was using "diversionary tactics" in bringing to the UNGA's attention that Pakistan lied about the photo
 
 "India's diversionary tactics will not change the situation on ground. It is the situation on ground that India has to answer for," said Usman.
 
 Then, Usman said again that India was "raking up" the issue of the photo.
 
 "Raking up debate on pictures has backfired. Your own people do not buy your argument," said Usman.
 
 Turns out, it may be some Pakistanis who aren't buying the fake photo argument. 
 
 An editorial in Pakistan's The Express Tribune called the photo incident a "gaffe" and said Pakistan should apologise.
 
 "A dignified apology is in order - as is a stringent requirement that any image so used in future go through the most rigorous fact-checking procedure," said the Tribune editorial.
 
 A column in Pakistan's Nation media outlet called Pakistan's UN representative Lodhi's misrepresentation a case of "criminal faux pax".
 
 "When you're making a statement as big as accusing another state of being the "mother of terrorism" in the region, it is always a great idea to have evidence at hand," said the column.
 
 Still, Lodhi was impressed by Usman's defence of her "criminal faux pax". Here's what she tweeted:
 
  
  
 
 
