The government’s announcement that paying   at a restaurant isn’t mandatory and that the consumer can choose not to pay if dissatisfied, does seem like a move that empowers the consumer. But does it really? Hyderabadis reckon the government might just be passing the buck. 

 
 
 I am all for allowing customers to pay service charge as per their discretion. But I also think that people should turn their focus towards ‘service tax’ now and try and understand what they are paying for, and what their rights are. My question is: Do I have the option of not paying service tax if I am not happy with the government? Take the industry I work in, manufacturing and service, for example. To get any little thing done, I have to deal with more than 30 government departments. So, can I choose not to pay service tax because I’m unhappy with the government’s service? 
 —  , businessman
 
 
 
 It is a great move that we get to decide whether or not the service is worth the extra money the restaurant charges. After all, the service charges levied by restaurants were never the same; each place charges according to the whims and fancies of the management. There is no transparency as to where the money we paid is going. I would personally prefer tipping the person who served me directly for good service rather than letting it go to the management, who’s already charging me.
 — Parvathy Reddy, entrepreneur
 
 
 
 I find this whole idea of ‘service charge’ problematic. One, you have it on your bill, when by nature it is not a tax, like the VAT or the Service tax for that matter. So why is it imposed on us with every bill? When anything is forced or imposed on you, it doesn’t work. 
 Now, the new ruling retains the service charge but gives us a choice, but then come of think of it, is it a solution? No. There is a lot of ambiguity that needs to be cleared and a lot of questions that are still unanswered. If service charge has to go to the person who has waited on your table, then why not tip, because I am not sure that the money I am paying as service charge is actually going to the person who served me. Another question that we MUST ask is if the people serving us are dependant on this extra money. If yes, then that is another issue we must look into, isn’t it? perhaps it is time to reevaluate the pay scales in the service industry. But at the end of the day, after you have had two glasses of wine and a hearty meal and you are set to go home, the last thing you want to do is decide if you want to pay the service charge and do the math! 
  —  , director, Goethe Zentrum, Hyderabad
 
 
 
 Service charge isn’t the real problem. It’s the idea that the money doesn’t go to the people behind the service! But that is a big misconception. when you go to a restaurant, you have a waiter who is serving you, and you tip him. But what about the guy who is cleaning your table, or even the man at the front desk who is taking your reservations? At any restaurant, you are not only paying for the food, you are paying for the whole experience, right? So one can’t say I like the food but I don’t want to pay service charge. If you say so, you are denying money to the guys who were involved in the process of serving you. So in that sense, service charge streamlines the process. Anyway, this isn’t anything new. All over the world, ‘service charge’ is levied, they might be called by different names, that’s it. For instance, abroad if you are a table of 5 to 6, you are expected to pay a gratuity of 10 per cent and for a table of 8-10 the charge goes up to 15 percent. When you are expecting that quality, then you have to pay.
 —  , restaurateur
 
 
 
 Often, it is the smaller coffee shops and restaurants that are likely to levy a 14 per cent service charge. It is just one way to extort a little more money from the customers. I once went to a coffee shop in Banjara Hills with my friends and we were charged `200 as service charge. My friend tried to find out why all he got was, ‘this is how it works, there is nothing we can do’. Most people do not know that the service charge isn’t mandatory. 
 —  , artist
 
 
 
 I really didn’t know that it was something we could refuse to pay and that it was a charge that the restaurant decided! Firstly, I don’t understand why there’s a service charge when there’s already a VAT and service tax. If the service is really good then none of us mind tipping the server, but otherwise it is obsolete — why do we have to pay the restaurant extra for doing their job? In fact, it is still okay for smaller restaurants to levy a service charge for the work they are doing in the little they have. But it is absolutely unforgivable for high end restaurants to ask for a service charge when they already charge us a bomb! 
 —  , designer 
 
 
