NAGPUR: The proposal to increase   (FSI) along the   corridor has finally moved a step forward.   (UMTC), the consultant appointed by Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) to do impact assessment, has submitted its interim report, which has been forwarded to state urban development department (UDD). The government has, however, asked the consultant to do some calculations again.

 The government plans to increase FSI to maximum 4 upto a distance of 500 metres on both sides of Metro corridor. NIT and   ( ) will charge a premium for consuming this extra FSI.
 
 Half the premium will go to Mahametro, the agency executing Nagpur Metro Rail project. The premium will help Mahametro pay a part of its foreign loan.
 
 NIT chairman Dipak Mhaisekar told TOI the consultant had estimated that the extra population that would live on both sides of the Metro corridor due to increased FSI would be 3.5 lakh. “This is in addition to the natural growth of population in this area,” he said.
 
 According to the consultant’s estimate, Rs 60 crore would be needed to strengthen the civic infrastructure in the area for meeting the needs of the 3.5 lakh extra residents. “The government feels this amount is on the lower side. Moreover, the tenement density calculations are also not correct. So we have asked them to make necessary corrections,” the NIT chief said adding that while the consultant had mentioned the need for parking spaces and gardens in the area, it had not calculated the cost of these amenities.
 
 It will be some weeks before the Metro corridor area gets extra FSI. The consultant will submit the final report to NIT, which will forward it to UDD. If the UDD does not find any lacunae, it will issue a gazette notification for amending the development control rules (DCR) of Nagpur.
 
 The proposal to increase FSI along the Metro corridor was announced in May 2015 by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. It was in October 2016 that the government realized that an impact assessment was needed. NIT was accordingly instructed to appoint a consultant for the job. 
 
 
