MUMBAI: A   woman became the first foreign national to undergo a life-saving heart   at a city hospital on Monday. The 27-year-old mother had registered with   Hospital in Mulund two days ago. The central organ distribution body in New Delhi allocated the heart to her after no other Indian recipient on the waiting list was found to be a match. 

 Diagnosed with post-partum dilated cardiomyopathy, the housewife was in urgent need of a donor heart. She found the match in a 22-year-old Surat man, who was declared brain dead after a road accident. His family consented to donate his vital organs, including pancreas and corneas, giving a lease of life to seven persons. 
 
 “Post-partum dilated cardiomyopathy is an uncommon form of heart failure that happens during the last month of pregnancy or up to five months after giving birth. The disorder carries a high mortality rate,” said a Fortis Hospital doctor. The harvested heart was flown to the city from Unity Hospital, Surat, in one hour, 32 minutes, covering 317 km.
 
 A Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee member said the National Organ and Tissue Transplantation Committee sprung into action and checked with every other centre carrying out heart transplants in the country to find if there was any suitable recipient. Dr Sunil Shroff of Mohan Foundation said an organ is allocated to a foreigner only after the national list followed by the NRI waiting list is exhausted.
 
 Calling it a positive trend, Dr Shroff said, “At least 10-15% organs in Tamil Nadu go to foreigners, including children. The idea is to give back, like many Indians get organs from abroad.” 
 
 Dr Anvay Mulay, head of cardiac transplant team at Fortis Hospital, credited the donor family for making the valuable donation and saving multiple lives, besides facilitating the city’s 46th heart transplant. “They’ve saved and enriched lives of seven recipients through their young son,” he said. He said that transplant surgery went on well. “The recipient is stable now. We will continue to monitor her in the ICU for 48-72 hours,” he said. NGO Donate Life counselled the donor family.
 
 
