SHIMLA: To ensure the safety and security of doctors at their work place,   government on Thursday introduced an an   in the House to   on duty in   and dispensaries by making the offence of assault non-bailable. 

 While introducing   Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property) Amendment Bill, 2017, health minister Kaul Singh Thakur said in section 3 of the earlier Act there was provision of one year imprisonment which has been now substituted through amendment and increased to three years. Bill also proposes for the substitution of Section to make the offence cognizable.
 
 It has been proposed that any offence committed under this Act shall be cognizable and non-bailable. Clause 3 of the Bill seeks to empower the state government to authorize an officer, by notification, to make a complaint in writing which means that no court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this Act except upon a complaint in writing made by the officer authorized by the government, by notification, in his behalf.
 
 The health minister said that Section 4 of the Himachal Pradesh Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property) Act, 2009 (Act No 5 of 2010) provides that any offence committed under this Act shall be cognizable.
 
 He said that HMOA has demanded that the offence under the Act in the same place should be cognizable and non-bailable in view of the increased incidences of violence against medical officers on duty and also damages to the government property. He said that demand of the association has been considered and it has been decided to make the offence under the Act cognizable and non-bailable punishable with imprisonment up to three yearsand at the same time also to provide safe-guards so that the provisions of the Act in the same place are not misused..
 
 In HP, medical officers for a long time were demanding to have stringent measures in the law to stop the incidents of attack on doctors at their work place by patients on relatives. From time to time Himachal Pradesh Medical Officers Association (HMOA) was observing strike on the issue.
 
 It was in February this year that doctors had called off their strike after chief minister   assured them that their demands regarding action on those mounting any attacks or assault on them during duty hours to be made a cognizable offence, would be tabled in the upcoming assembly session.
 
