KOLKATA | NEW DELHI:   is the new buzz word for consumer goods makers and it is resonating like never before in their marketing strategies.
 
  To offset the weak post   consumer sentiment and take advantage of the Union Budget’s push to boost rural income, companies from electronics major   to hair oil maker Marico are going deep into the hinterlands with products and services tailored for a market that is still largely untapped.
  
  Samsung is creating distinct business plans right up to the district level with more regional officers and made-for-India products while rival   is setting up warehouses and service centres in small cities and towns, and   is launching a product line and distribution channel targeting rural India.
  
  FMCG firms such as Dabur, Parle,   and Marico are accelerating hiring to directly serve regional markets and small towns.
  
  “Ever since demonetisation, there is a change in the behaviour of urban households whereby those who used to buy multiple products are now at best buying one product,” said Videocon chief operating officer CM Singh.
  
  “Hence, we have to expand presence in small towns and rural India, where there are a lot of first-time buyers … to continue the growth rate.”
  
  
 
  The November 8 note ban and the cash crunch that followed have badly bruised the consumer goods industry, with buyers staying away from electronics and automobile showrooms and spending less on non-essential FMCG products.
  
  White goods sales fell as much as 25 per cent during November-January while those were down 35 per cent for FMCG immediately after demonetisation.
  
  All listed FMCG companies reported slower growth for the October-December quarter, and predicted demand to bounce back only from April by when they expect rural demand to start picking up.
  
  But they are also betting on finance minister Arun Jaitley’s Budget proposals aimed at doubling farmer income in five years, which they expect to stir up demand in rural India and provide them with a growth driver for the future. Panasonic India president Manish Sharma said the focus on small towns and rural India is also to prepare for the future.
  
  The company is coming up with a facility to manufacture refrigerators in India. Biscuits giant Parle Products is directly servicing small and regional markets from the headquarters with dedicated teams, marketing manager Mayank Shah said.
  
  Godrej Consumer Products, Marico and   said they will expand their teams and launch more rural-focussed products, including packs at price points of Rs 2,Rs 5 and Rs 10.
  
  Britannia managing director Varun Berry last week told ET that distribution inroads in rural would remain the company’s biggest initiative.   executive director for HR V Krishnan said the company has been strengthening its presence in the hinterland and ramping up field force both within the company and stockists. It has created a full-fledged vertical for healthcare with a team of 200 professionals.
  
  “We have been working towards not just enhancing our presence in the retail channel, but also improving the way we reach out. In addition, with Dabur expanding rural footprint, we are adding feet on street,” said Krishnan.
  
  Samsung India, meanwhile, will have marketing and service backups right up to the district level to target each tehsil and village. For this, the country’s largest consumer electronics maker plans to create 15 new branches in small towns and a new post of regional channel manager, who will push distribution.
  
  Samsung’s new branches will come up in places like Kolhapur, Udaipur and Surat, which will be supported with a bouquet of made-for-India products.
  
  “Samsung expects maximum growth will be coming from smaller towns and hence has factored that in the 10-15 per cent growth it is targeting this year from the consumer electronics business,” said a senior industry executive. The company did not respond to an email seeking comment.
  
  
 
  Expanding to rural markets makes sense. Demonetisation held back discretionary consumption demand and that’s expected to change in the coming months. But investment is weak. Gross fixed capital formation has slid.
  
  So, investment revival and exports must grow. But banks are saddled with bad loans and companies are hamstrung as they cannot service loans. A swift enforcement of the bankruptcy code will enable banks to lend again. Public investment should be stepped up to restart private investment. 
