PUNE: The much-awaited road work on the   has hit an unexpected stumbling block — an abandoned car parked on the middle of the stretch to be tarred.

 The car appears to be in a good condition. But a thick layer of dust on it is a testimony to its immobility for months.
 
 On the parallel Old Link Road, an abandoned four-wheeler van with a registration number of Malegaon parked outside the Kumar Peninsula society is a concern for residents. Compounding their worry is the response from the government’s Vahan facility via SMSs, stating that the vehicle registration number was not in records.
 
 All attempts of citizens of the area to get the vehicle removed have failed. Neither the   (PMC), nor the traffic police have come forward to take it away.
 
 The vehicle can be a serious safety and security hazard, said Gulab Patil, the chairman of Kumar Peninsula. “The car may have been involved in crime. It is not only reducing the carriageway of the narrow road, we are also concerned about its misuse. The civic body can issue a notice and if no one comes forward to take the car after six months, it can sell the vehicle and keep the money in its exchequer,” he said.
 
 According to the estimates of PMC, almost 50,000 such unclaimed vehicles are parked in open spaces and on roads across the city. While the Peth areas face the most acute problem of congestion because of these vehicles blocking the carriageway, the hurdle is citywide. Several hundred vehicles are stationed at police stations awaiting judgment in criminal cases in which they were used.
 
 Nitin Memane, a resident of Kharadi, attributed the traffic problems around Ahmednagar Road to the   occupying one side of the road. “There are several unclaimed vehicles, including cars, trucks and tempos, along the road from Chandannagar to Yerawada. Some of them have their tyres deflated, while others have broken windows. The road has been widened about two-and-a-half years ago, but we are unable to take its benefit because of these vehicles. Seeing them, many car owners park their vehicles along the road, turning the stretch into an unofficial parking lot,” he said.
 
 There are several abandoned cars parked in and around Aundh too, said Vaishali Patkar of Aundh Vikas Mandal. “There are scores of them around the area, especially near the DAV School. We had approached the traffic police last year to tackle the issue, but nothing has been done,” she said.
 
 On August 31 last year, mayor   had announced that the civic body would start confiscating abandoned vehicles from September 16, 2016. These vehicles were to be dumped at Warje and then scrapped. The civic body had also planned to penalize the owners of such unattended vehicles with a fine as high as Rs35,000 if they failed to take the vehicles away even after being served a notice. There has hardly been any headway, though.
 
 Sandhya Ghagre, in charge of handling encroachment-related problems in PMC, attributed the poor show to the impending elections. “We don’t have space for abandoned vehicles. Anyway, the elections have been announced, so no work can be done. Nor can I share any information,” she said.
 
 The traffic police, too, expressed helplessness in tackling the issue. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   said, “It is definitely a serious matter, especially because misuse of such vehicles is possible or their number plates may be changed to evade detection of crimes. Unfortunately, we don’t have any space of our own to park the unclaimed vehicles.”
 
 Seeking action on the matter in a letter written to municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar on Wednesday, Baner Pashan Link Road Vikas Samitee’s member Ravindra Sinha stated, “PMC Care is not entertaining complaints of abandoned and unattended vehicles lying on roads of Pune through WhatsApp. They are asking citizens to contact the police. The roads are in PMC jurisdiction and citizens cannot be made to run from pillar to post for reporting unattended vehicles, which are encroachments and a security risk.”
 
 
