Panaji: Goa Pradesh   Committee (GPCC) president   Faleiro, on Friday, responded to calls by a section of Congress MLAs seeking his ouster from the party leadership, saying that he was ready to quit if it was in the Congress party’s best interests. 

 Faleiro said that he had agreed to continue as the party president till the conclusion of the state assembly elections.
 
 The party had also announced that it would hold elections for the state party president and vice-president, along with the executive committee, between September 16 and October 15.
 
 “I am ready to quit any position in the interest of the party and the organization because that had been my motto. If tomorrow even one MLA feels, forget 14 MLAs, that we can form a government and that my resignation will help and facilitate, I am ready to quit,” Faleiro said while addressing a press conference.
 
 Faleiro was speaking in the presence of Congress general secretary and Goa desk in-charge, A Chella Kumar.
 
 Two days earlier, 14 Congress MLAs had approached expelled Congressman and former St Cruz MLA, Atanasio Monserratte, and urged him to contest the Panaji elections on the Congress ticket. During the discussions, which happened after several meetings with Chella Kumar, the MLAs reportedly asked for Faleiro’s resignation.
 
 A few Congress MLAs feel that allies in the present ruling   dispensation could switch sides if Faleiro was removed as the state party president.
 
 Responding to a question whether the MLAs had sought Faleiro’s resignation, Chella Kumar said, “In the last three days, I have met a lot of people and MLAs. A lot of discussions took place and we are in the process of holding internal elections. I don’t think any of the MLAs has made such a demand. He himself has openly said that he has resigned and now Congress president Sonia Gandhi has to take a call.”
 
 Sources also indicate that stripping Faleiro of his top post could be a pre-condition set by Monserrate to contest the Panaji by-election. The Navelim MLA has already submitted his resignation.
 
 Faleiro said that the party would hold elections right from the booth committee level to the Pradesh Congress Committee level.
 
 “The party has been given 15 more days for the membership drive to conclude and to enrol more members. A detailed election programme has been chalked out for elections right from the booth level. There will be an opportunity to elect a new Pradesh president,” Congress legislature party president Chandrakant Kavlekar said.
 
 
