 NAGPUR:Though not barred directly from bidding afresh for works under the never ending  , the controversial irrigation contractors may still be kept away after   (NBCC) has been roped in as a consultant for the project. 
 
 As a move to speed up the work, NBCC will execute one part of Gosikhurd dam, which is proposed to irrigate more than two lakh hectares. It will be instrumental in completing canal distribution network estimated to be worth over Rs1,000 crore. Under the mandate, NBCC will be issuing the tenders and monitoring the work. Sources following the affair said that NBCC plans to float large-size tenders. The value may be pegged at Rs200 to Rs300 crore so that the entire work can be completed through 4-5 tenders in all. 
 
 Given the size of tenders, only large-size infrastructure companies, which include some of the listed entities, may be able to take part in the project. The existing contractors, including those facing the   (ACB) probe, have not been barred from competing under  . However, majority of them have the capacity to take up small or mid sized works in terms of value. Huge tenders may keep many of them out of the fray, said a source.
 
 NBCC is expected to issue fresh tenders in May after joint measurement of the work done by outgoing contractors is over. The state government has cancelled 81 works in the project. These include those granted through 40 tenders now covered under ABC probe. Objections were raised by an internal committee of Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC). Majority of the works are worth of Rs25 crore and below.
 
 Gosikhurd has been in eye of the storm since 2009, when irregularities in the process of granting tenders came to fore. This had led to temporary resignation of NCP top leader Ajit Pawar who had also held the water resources portfolio. The ACB probe was ordered in the   with offences registered in four cases so far. Roping in NBCC is a part of measures to reform the irrigation sector of the region.
 
 However, sources said a few of the existing contractors facing the cancellation order are not keen to bit afresh under the NBCC regime.
 
 
