PATNA: The “cordial meeting’ between CM Nitish Kumar and deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday has sort of outfoxed and angered the BJP-led  .

 The NDA constituents have been demanding the dismissal of Tejashwi ever since the CBI on July 7 conducted raids against him and his family in connection with an alleged land graft. The NDA leaders as well as political observers also speculated over the “imminent fall” of the coalition government if Nitish insisted on Tejashwi’s removal to save his image of “Mr Clean”.
 
 To rub salt on the wound of the NDA leadership, however, Congress MLC Dilip Choudhary on Wednesday said, “All is well in the ruling alliance.” 
 
 Apparently outwitted by the sudden change in the narrative on Tejashwi, former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said Nitish should now explain if he was still maintaining zero tolerance on corruption or has compromised on his stand on corruption to save his chair. “Will he still say either I will live in Bihar or the corrupt?” Modi asked.
 
 BJP state president Nityanand Rai and party’s senior functionary Nand Kishore Yadav also alleged Nitish has compromised on his zero tolerance on corruption.
 
 Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) founder president and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi was, however, not surprised. “Everything was planned by Lalu and Nitish. They wanted to divert people’s attention from lack of development in the state,” Manjhi said.
 
 CPI (ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya told media persons the CBI charge against Tejashwi was a “serious matter” and, therefore, Nitish should explain what transpired between him and Tejashwi.
 
 Bhattacharya also called the BJP’s bluff on such matters, saying Union minister Uma Bharti continues in the Union ministry despite CBI charges against her. Also, Yogi Adityanath was made CM and Keshav Prasad Maurya deputy CM of UP even as police cases are pending against them, he said.
 
 Rashtriya Lok Samata Party chief and Union minister Upendra Kushwaha, who remained mum on the demand for Tejashwi’s resignation, said the return of Nitish to the NDA would not augur well for the BJP-led alliance.
 
 
