KOCHI: Even as the corporation gets ready to unveil its budget for 2017-18 major projects announced in the earlier budgets are still to get off the ground. 

 E-governance has made it to the proposals since 2011-12. As per the first proposal, the project, with an outlay of Rs 8.6 crore should have been completed in June 2012. Though the project continued to figure in the consecutive budgets since then, it still remain grounded. "Had the e-governance project been completed, it would have brought in transparency. It would also have reduced the difficulties faced by the public while they try to use the various services offered by the civic body," said K J Jacob, former opposition leader,  .
 
 Another project which has been often repeated in the budget proposals has been the construction of a new plant at Brahmapuram for treating solid waste effectively. The project has been included in several budgets but the corporation authorities have not yet been able to clear several doubts raised from various quarters about the waste-to-energy plant.
 
 Residents associations can play a big role in ensuring that the projects do not get stuck in bureaucratic hassles. They need to keep a tab on each project announced in their area or for the entire city and give constant feedback to media and corporation authorities so as to make sure the proposals do not remain on paper. During each meeting of the corporation council, office-bearers of residents' associations should also be invited on a rotation basis.
 
 At each council meeting, certain time, like half hour or an hour, should be given for them to give their suggestions or complaints regarding the projects announced in the budget. The residents' association leaders should hold discussions with the councillors concerned before attending the meeting.
 
 There are almost 1,400 residents' association in the corporation limits. Welcoming TOI's suggestion, A Ajith Kumar, general secretary, Ernakulam District Residents Associations Apex Council (EDRAAC) said: "It would serve as a platform for us to offer our suggestions for effective implementation of the projects. "EDRAAC has a special cell for handling the issues in Kochi Corporation limits," he said.
 
 According to K G Panicker, former secretary of the Residents' Associations Apex Council of Ernakulam (RACE) and president, Jesus Road Residents' Association, residents associations need to play an active role in facilitating implementing the projects in their area. "Most of the officer-bearers are professionals like engineers who have retired as the heads of different departments like the   and the PWD. So, they can take the lead in monitoring and supporting the implementation of projects," Panicker said.
 
 
