KOCHI: While some psychologists are of the view that the mass parricide in Thiruvananthapuram could be the result of drug-induced psychosis, criminologists say personality and behavioural disorders of  , who kept aloof from others, could have led to the crime.

 According to Dr K S David of  , the incident could be the result of a psychotic aberration.
 
 “It could be psychosis caused by drugs or excessive belief in God or Satan. These are all hallucinations and anything can happen when a person is going through such a state of mind. They will not be concerned of the consequences or experience guilt,“ said Dr David.
 
 Criminologist Ajithkumar Nair said the youth, as per media reports, the suspect is an introvert and his mode of communication to the outer world was limited to online conversations.
 
 “Games like Mortal Combat and   are too violent. I'm not stereotyping here, but a regular fascination for blood and murder could have an adverse effect on a person who has a disturbed life as in the case of the youth in Thiruvananthapuram,“ said Ajith. The fascination for the supernatural that some gamers have could have led him to explore esoteric concepts like 'astral projection'.
 
 Some are of the view that the violent act could have links with black magic. According to  , author of Thamo Vedam, a fictionalised account of a Satan worshipper, people linked with black mass are usually economically well off persons who credit their prosperity to the wor ship of Satan.
 
 “For them, Satan represents all so-called sins which lead to physical, mental, or emotional gratification,“ said Rajeev.
 
 Kochi Range IG P Vijayan said that it was high time that a study was conducted that looks at crime rate in the state and its relation to mental health of the culprits.
 
 “Similar incidents are continuously getting reported. A few days back in Idukki, a wife killed her husband who later claimed that she did so after being instructed by God while she was reading bible. From what I perceive, some of the cases of child sexual abuse nowadays could be due to psychological abnormality,“ said Vijayan.
 
