KANNUR: Kerala is a highly   and nothing gives satisfaction to the people here, said social activist  .

 “They give vent to all their frustrations through violence and even the instances of sexual violence should be seen in this context,” she said on the sidelines of a press conference in connection with her first Malayalam movie, ‘Kanthan- the lover of colours’, here on Saturday.
 
 In Kerala, the problem is that we give much importance to the outward appearance, which is not the same in other places, said Bai.
 
 “I face harassment in other places in India in connection with my works whereas in my native Kerala I face humiliation due to my dressing style and appearance, which is strange,” she said, adding that she has no plan to change it.
 
 Similarly, the kind of positive response she gets for her works in north India she does not get in so-called progressive and developed Kerala, she said.
 
 While attending a public function recently, a well-known personality sitting next to her was bit too embarrassed to sit close to her and his body language expressed it, she said. “He felt bit comfortable only after knowing who I am,” she said.
 
 Likewise, despite having reservation tickets, she had to face humiliation from the railway officials in state, Bai said.
 
 “It is high time we redefined education and development. Development is not just giving something to the people, it is something that ensures basic necessity to everybody and let them grow together,” she said.
 
 In education also there is some problem, especially in the so-called high-class private schools, where the students have no feeling or sensitivity, according to the social activist. However, in government schools, the students respond better and they share their thought, feeling and also ask questions, she said adding that the so-called elitist style of education creates a pseudo class consciousness.
 
 Even the attitude towards women and the society at large could be changed only if we instil   among the children through education, she added.
 
 She said she accepted the offer to act in this film because it reflected her personality, life and philosophy. 
 
 “The film, based on the life of a tribal community in Wayanad, is all about the marginalized and it also has an eco-sensitive approach, hence we decided to cast Daya Bai, who works among the marginalized and also has a green vision,” said director Shareef Easa. 
 
