PANAJI: The trillion-tonne  , 1.5 times the size of Goa, which recently broke off from the Larsen C ice shelf in   does not poses an immediate risk to the human population or rise in sea level but may impact   routes, a scientist has warned.

 “So far, the observations and model predictions don’t point to an immediate importance to sea level. But if such a huge chunk of ice, if it comes into the shipping routes, can be hazardous. That could be a threat it poses in terms of commercial aspect,” Thamban Meloth, group director of Polar Sciences from the Goa-based National Centre for Antarctic and Ocean Research, told TOI.
 
 He said the sheer size of the iceberg can be a major risk to shipping routes as it floats in the Southern Ocean. “Due to the prevailing circulation patterns, it could be moving towards a major shipping route in   and South Indian Ocean. That area is part of the Antarctic circumpolar current, the largest ocean current over the globe,” Meloth said.
 
 But he said unlike the large Antarctic ice sheets, the ice shelves are floating bodies of ice already occupying their space in the coastal ocean and hence, may not contribute to further rise in ocean level.
 
 “The ice sheet dynamics are such that in Antarctica, everything feels stable for a long time. But then a small trigger can initiate a big chain reaction,” Meloth, who has been on several polar expeditions, explained. He said the break off of Larsen C could actually be the trigger of a bigger, and more hazardous chain reaction that could destabilise the remaining ice shelf and subsequently the inland ice sheets. 
 
 Currently, his team along with Norwegian scientists are studying the fate of a similar ice shelf in East Antarctica.
 
 Explaining the scientific theory, Meloth said the coastal ice shelves are the safety ring that is holding the Antarctic ice sheet at its place.
 
 “If the safety ring that is holding the ice sheet covering the Antarctic land mass starts breaching, the ice sheet would slowly but gradually move towards the ocean, which will definitely contribute to significant global sea level rise. The Larsen C ice shelf is on the Antarctic Peninsula. It may not trigger the ice sheet collapse, but ice shelves like the Thwaites glacier in West Antarctica, which is one of the biggest glacier on the planet, pose the risk of triggering the collapse of a huge part of the western Antarctic ice sheet.”
 
 Larsen C is the third major among ice shelves which has broken off from the Larsen ice shelf. Located at the northwest part of the Weddell Sea on the Antarctic Peninsula, the Larsen ice shelf saw its first rupture in January 1995 when Larsen A iceberg broke off. Seven years later, Larsen B, after being stable for more than 10,000 years, broke off in March 2002. A small part Larsen C, the largest among these, had started the breakaway process in mid-2016. During the latest incident, 12% of the Larsen C ice shelf got detached and became a huge iceberg.
 
 
