GURUGRAM: The city police has formed a special investigation team ( ) to probe the   of the 26-year-old   in the early hours of Saturday.

 The seven-member SIT, led by DCP (crime) Sumit Kuhar, includes ACP Dharna Yadav, ACP Jai Singh, Sector 18 SHO inspector Ram Kumar, Sector 17 crime branch inspector Narender Kumar, an   and a lady police inspector. The SIT has already released the sketch of one suspect, drawn on the basis of the survivor’s description, the only lead they have in the case so far. “We are on the job, but we can’t elaborate on any details of the investigation,” said DCP Kuhar.
 
 A massive search has been launched for the Swift Dzire used in the gang rape. Police are looking for usable   footage from sources along the entire route taken by the car that night. The male friend with whom the survivor had gone out before the rape, was identified as a Lohit, and asked to join the probe. Though there is no official confirmation, sources said police called some Facebook friends of the survivor for questioning at the police station today.
 
 “We called the cab driver who had dropped the victim in Sector 17, but he said he was unaware of the kidnap. The survivor, who lives in a PG, declined to meet anyone. We’re collecting CCTV footage from the market and houses nearby. In one video, whose time corresponds to the time of the kidnap, a Swift Dzire can be seen, but the survivor was unable to confirm its registration number as she claimed the accused had covered the rear number plate with cloth,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Lohit, the survivor’s friend, claimed they had gone out to watch a movie in CP in Delhi, and that she was with him till about 2am, when he dropped her near her home in the cab. She was allegedly abducted soon after.
 
 A delegation of students from Sikkim, led by the state deputy resident commissioner in Delhi, met commissioner of police (CP) Sandeep Khirwar. They also wanted to meet the survivor, which she refused, said police. “We met the CP to enquire about the survivor’s condition, if she was being given proper counselling, etc. The CP assured us of a speedy probe,” said Pranesh Chettri, president of Sikkim Student’s Association, Delhi.
 
 The CP later said the survivor repeated her statement in a city court under CrPC 164, and that they have found a vital clue from CCTV footage. “As per her statement, the accused were talking in Haryanvi. One of them was called by the other two Deepak,” said Khirwar.
 
 
