BHUBANESWAR: As many as   in the state between 2005 and 2014, agriculture minister   said on Wednesday quoting the   (NCRB) report. 

 The dead included 247 women farmers, the minister said in the Assembly in a written reply to BJP s  .
 
 Of the 10 years 2006 accounted for the highest number of 283 farmers suicide followed by 260 in 2008 and 254 in 2005. In 2007, 240 farmers ended their lives. According to the NCRB report, nearly 3 to 7 per cent of the total farmers who committed suicide in the country during this period were from Odisha.
 
 Maharathy's statement came in the backdrop of the government and himself in particular facing criticism for the recent suicide of a farmer in Bargarh district, which he in the Assembly attributed to domestic discord. His statement soon snowballed into severe public agitation, forcing the government to send the collector to the village for a recheck of the facts. This was preceded by villagers detaining two visiting officials and insisting them to record the statements of the family members of the deceased farmer in their presence and give them a copy of it.
 
 The NCRB report, which categorises farmers suicides separately as those whose principal source of livelihood is agriculture, debunks the Naveen Patnaik regime s claim that 82 lakh families had been moved up the BPL level between 2004 to 2012. The government has also chosen to stick to its stand to deny any farmers suicide in the state saying the incidents could be anything but crop loss and debt.
 
 Maharathy contrary to the government's stand did not question the veracity of the NCRB information nor did he cite any reason behind the suicides of all these people.
 
 More farmer suicides were recorded in states like Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu during this period, he said referring to the NCRB report.
 
 Responding to another query by Dilip Ray, the minister admitted that the average monthly income of a farmer in Odisha is much below than the national average. Citing the National Sample Survey (NSS) report 2012-13, he said the average monthly income of Odisha farmer was Rs 4976 against the national average of Rs 6426.
 
 Punjab tops among all states with average monthly income of Rs 18,059 followed by Rs 14,434 in Haryana and Rs 11,889 in Kerala.
 
 Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Karnataka,  , Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu are the other states where farmers earn more than Odisha, he said. 
 
