HYDERABAD: Can   (EVMs) be tampered with? Controversy was kicked off by   and Delhi chief minister   after  

 EVMs are manufactured in Hyderabad by Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL) and Bangalore-based Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), both public sector units. 
 
 “Whenever doubts were raised about possibility of EVMs being tampered with, parliamentary committees were shown how it's impossible,“ an official of ECIL told TOI. He, however, said only Election Commission of India is authorized to comment. It was in Hyderabad that the issue of EVM tampering was debated in 2010. Hari K Prasad of NetIndia Private Ltd took the lead in demonstrating that tampering was possible by `dishonest election insiders or criminals with only a brief physical access to the machines'. The research was a joint effort of University of Michigan, a team of NetIndia and a security researcher Rop Gonggrijp of The Netherlands. The research paper -Security Analysis of India's Electronic Voting Machines -stated how EVMs were vulnerable to attacks and suggested what could be done to make elections transparent. 
 
 “There should be more transparency . The design and code of the chip in EVMs should be made available for scrutiny by anyone,“ Hari Prasad said. For his research, Prasad received 2010 Pioneer Awards instituted by Electronic Frontier Foundation, San Fransciso. When Prasad got access to an EVM and was ready to display how fraud could be perpetrated, he was arrested on charges of EVM theft. ECI later withdrew the case. The man in the forefront of `exposing security flaws' in EVMs in 2010 was G V L Narasimha Rao, who also wrote a book on how EVMs could be tampered with. Rao who hails from Hydera bad, is now national spokesperson of BJP . Considering that Rao himself talked about security flaws in EVMs in the past, TOI asked him about Kejriwal's allegation. “I am in a meeting,“ Rao SMSed this reporter. Association of Democratic Reforms has also said there should be more transparency and this was possible with Voter-Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT).
 
 “This has been implemented in all constituencies in Goa and few constituencies in UP , Uttarakhand, Manipur and Punjab,“ said Rakesh Reddy Dubbudu, ADR, coordinator, Telangana. In VVPAT, the voter does not get to hold the paper or check ballot.
 
