NEW DELHI: At the auctions conducted in May ahead of the fifth season of Pro Kabaddi 5,  , the two-time defending champions, retained raider  . They were supremely confident about his ability to lead the charge once again and the 20-year-old has responded magnificently .

 In fact, given Narwal's performance, he seems to be competing in a league of his own, notching up jaw-dropping numbers. He has accumulated 224 points in 17 games. To understand its significance one would have to look at the next best raider of PKL-5. His teammate   has tallied a total of 144 points (including raid and tackle), of which 134 have been raid points. That's a whopping difference of 90 raid points separating the duo. Bengaluru Bulls' Rohit Kumar has managed 127 raid points so far and is followed by   with 126 points.
 
 Did Narwal imagine he would end up having such an outstanding season? “Honestly , I was only keen on giving my best for the team. That I am leading the raids chart is a bonus,” Narwal told TOI on Monday , ahead of their Inter Zone Challenge fixture against hosts Dabang Delhi.
 
 He may sound humble, but Narwal is clearly the star performer of PKL-5, and it will be interesting to see if he can sustain the momentum over the next one month. There was added re sponsibility on Narwal given that Patna have fielded a very young side, and he has handled his role with enviable maturity .
 
 “I would not have managed to do well without the help of my teammates. In fact, no kabaddi player can shine on his own. So it's the team's collective performance that has helped us stay in contention for another title,” said Narwal.
 
 He believes the team's training sessions before the season began has played a large role in them maintaining high standards. “We were aware that it was not going to be easy to deliver consistently over a threemonth period, so there was a lot of emphasis on fitness. We also studied our opponents closely and have worked out plans accordingly ,” he said.
 
 Which other teams can mount a serious challenge to Patna's ambitions? “A lot depends on the squad's performance of the day , so I would take it match by match. I feel there is very little to separate some of the top teams, so the league is still wide open,” he said.
 
 
