Gandhian and secretary of the   in Patna since 1958 
 , who floated the idea of celebrating the centenary of Mahatma Gandhi’s Champaran movement, told TOI’s 
  in an exclusive interview that the governments – both central and state – should include Gandhian ideologies and thoughts in the curriculum of schools. Excerpts:
 
  
 
  
  It is a noble gesture on the part of the state government to organise the event on such a grand scale. The decision to engage education department in organising various events to mark Champaran satyagrah is also appreciable as Gandhi always emphasised on youth and education for a peaceful and prosperous India.
  
  
 
  
  Gandhian thoughts and ideologies are all the more relevant today as there is growing violence and intolerance. All political parties are trying to divide society and fuel violence for political gains. Thus, Gandhian philosophy of 
  (equality of all religions), peaceful co-existence of different sections of society and non-violence are all the more relevant today.
  
  
 
  
  The country has seen mostly bad politics after 1967. Earlier, political parties used to fight on ideological issues. However, focus has no shifted to personal issues and use of unparliamentary languages against each other. The fellow-feeling in politics has ended.
  
  
 
  
  The government should include Gandhian ideologies and thoughts in the curriculum of schools. Besides, continuous efforts should be made to ensure communal and social harmony in the state.
  
  
 
  
  It was during the first meeting of the Congress in Lucknow in 1916 that several leaders from Bihar pursued him to start a movement against atrocities on farmers in Champaran. Gandhi assured them that he would visit Champaran and it is in this regard that he arrived for the first time in Patna on April 10, 1917. Thereafter, Gandhi was a frequent visitor to Bihar over the next three decades. From his first satyagraha movement in Champaran to civil disobedience, Gandhi went to hinterlands of the state. 
