PUNE: A   here has sentenced a 24-year-old man to five years’   for snatching a gold mangalsutra worth Rs 67,500 from a woman during an alleged dacoity by four suspects on the   fast   at the   station in January 2015.

 Three other accused were acquitted for lack of evidence. 
 
 In a judgement on May 15, additional sessions judge V K Kadam found the accused, Akshay Sabanna Dodmani, a resident of Anandnagar slums in Chinchwad, guilty of offence punishable under Section 395 (dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code. The court also imposed a Rs 2,000 fine on the convict.
 
 The incident occurred around 2am on January 26, 2015 when the train stopped at Chinchwad railway station on its way to Mumbai. One of the suspects put his hand through a window and snatched the mangalsutra from Ujwala Tukaram Jathar who was returning to Thane from Pandhapur, after attending a wedding there. 
 
 On reaching Thane, she lodged a zero FIR with the railway police there and the case was transferred to the Chinchwad railway police for investigation. 
 
 The Chinchwad railway police arrested Dodmani and three others and recovered the mangalsutra.On February 16, 2015, Jathar was summoned at Chinchwad railway police station for an identification parade and she identified Dodmani and her mangalsutra. 
 
 Dodmani had stated that he and five others decided to commit the crime and the mangalsutra was snatched by an another suspect, who later handed it over to the woman in his neighbourhood. However, investigations revealed that it was Dodmani who had given the mangalsutra to the woman for safekeeping.
 
 Judge Kadam observed in his ruling, “On going through the entire evidence placed on record by the prosecution, the prosecution has proved that on January 26, 2015 at about 2am at Chinchwad railway station, the accused no. 4 Askshay Dodmani has committed the dacoity of mangalsutra from complainant Ujwala Tukaram Jathar. However, there is no any iota of evidence against the accused nos. 1 to 3. On mere statement of accused no 4  , the accused nos 1 to 3 cannot be held guilty.”
 
