NAGPUR: When they started their   'B' Division campaign in 2015-16, Dr   had only one aim-to see their players rub shoulders with the best in days cricket in MN  . They went on to win the 'B' Division championship and qualified to the 'A' Division to become eligible for the Dorairajan Trophy. A year later, they created history by becoming the first team to win the Guzder League 'A' Division Trophy coming from 'B' Division. 

 DACSA's story resembles what Rajasthan did in Ranji Trophy in 2010-11. Coming from the Plate Group, Rajasthan went on to win the Ranji Trophy same year and then successfully defended the title next year. DACSA defeated Advocate XI in a one-sided final on Friday. "The league is getting competitive with each passing year, especially in 'A' Division where almost all the Vidarbha cricketers play. For a young team like us, it's a big boost," DACSA coach Prashant Bambal told TOI. 
 
 An enthusiastic group of youngsters produced some breath-taking performances throughout the season and defeated some of the fancied sides in the region. "We never thought of winning the 'A' Division championship. All we were aiming was to see our players get to play in Dorairajan Trophy. Youngsters learn a lot in Dorairajan Trophy," Bambal said. 
 
 After securing a spot in the 'A' Division, DACSA's first target was to play good competitive cricket. "When we started the season, the target was to qualify for the semifinal. All we wanted was to play consistent cricket," Bambal added. DACSA won their first three matches but lost next three. Those three losses taught them more than the victories. Bambal spoke to his boys and tried to understand their problem. "I told them not to take any undue pressure. Nobody was expecting us to win the championship," he said.
 
 Skipper   led from the front and by example. He scored five hundreds in the tournament was the highest run-getter.   too made valuable contributions in important matches, while the likes of   and   chipped in with useful performances. "Sanjay played a crucial role in the victory. He told me that he wanted to lead. After spending time with senior players in Ranji Trophy, he learned quite a few things about the captaincy. We didn't have strong bowling so we were prepared to chase whatever the target. Our victory against Navniketan Club-which had the likes of Akshay Karnewar, Aditya Sarvate, Aditya Shanware and Dharmendra Ahlawat, starring- was the turning point," said Bambal. 
 
 DACSA recorded one-sided victories in the both semifinal and final. They got the better of MSSC in the semifinal chasing 261 with 7.4 overs and seven wickets intact. They performed even better in the final and won the match by eight wickets. Sanjay and Siddhesh scored hundreds to fashion easy victory. The spin trio of Abhishek Chourasia, Parth Rekhade and Sanket Asre restricted the opposition to manageable target in both matches. 
 
 "It was a complete team effort. Our coaches Parshant Kantode, Aadesh Nagrare and Shailesh Raulkar also played a big role in the victory, while (AP) Joshi Sir was always guiding force to us. Hopefully we continue the same performance in coming years," Bambal signed off.
 
