BENGALURU: To eliminate duplication of   admission forms, the Karnataka Sarva   (SSA) has linked RTE to Aadhaar.

 Simply put, from this year, students opting for admission through the RTE quota will need to have their Aadhaar number in place. Once the 12-digit unique identification number is registered on the RTE webpage, the student will get a 14-digit confirmation code and the process of enrolment will begin.
 
 PC Jaffer, project director, SSA, Karnataka, on Monday said: “There were many problems associated with RTE admissions. With this new system, the problem of duplication will be eliminated. Under this system, real-time verification will happen all through the form-filling process. For instance, the class to which a student has to be admitted will be automatically decided based on the date of birth as per her Aadhaar specifications. Further, the demographic details of the parent/guardian will also be available for us to verify. This way, the student’s and parent’s address too can be matched.”
 
 Once the pin code is entered in the online form, the list of schools in that particular locality will show up. Parents can then select whichever institution they want send the child. Also, henceforth the SSA will be able to access information relating to caste and income certificates of parents from the revenue department’s database, and the same can be verified real-time.
 
 Trials for this new online process is over and the system will be implemented from March 1; admissions will be open till March 31. In fact, implementation of this new process has delayed RTE admissions by a fortnight this year, said Jaffer. 
 
 The forms can be filled at the offices of the block educational officers (BEOs) and department of public instructions (DDPI), where every student’s fingerprints can be verified on the machines available. The service is free at these offices. Parents can also opt for OTP through SMS while filling the details. The 1,440 applicants who filled the forms during the trial period will be allowed to edit their information once the system is accessible to all, said Jaffer. 
 
 Parents can also fill these forms at Bengaluru One, Karnataka One Centres and   in 740 hoblis of the state; each form will cost Rs 15.
 
 Also, for the first time, children of farmers who committed suicide will be eligible for RTE seats, along with orphans, HIV-infected children, transgenders, migrant and street children. This year, there are 1.3 lakh seats available under the RTE quota in Karnataka. This is 15,000 more than last year.
 
 Starting this year, fee reimbursement to schools (8,800) admitting students through RTE will also be done online, added Jaffer.
 
