CHENNAI: Veteran   passed away at his son's residence in   due to age-related illness on Thursday.
He was 86.
 
 A writer equally fluent in both Tamil and English, Ashokamitran's works have been traslated into English and many Indian languages. He wore a mask of silence but was always vibrant as a writer. He never put himself in the socalled 'furnace' of writers.
 
 Ashokamitran was active until recently despite asthmatic troubles.
 
 He found his sources in the common men around him.They gave him energy, and as a result, most of the stories that he made using satire as a tool.
 
 Born in 1931 in Secuderabad, Ashokamitran moved to Chennai in 1952. With its powerful satire and irony, his first work 'Anbin Parisu', won him acclaim. Many short stories and novels followed. What made Ashokamitran different from other writers was a simple and sharp style of writing, which disturbed many establishments and feudal set-ups.
 
 After coming to Chennai, he worked with Gemini Studios for more than 10 years, and this was the time he studied various types of people.Even though he wrote a memoir, 'Fourteen Years With Boss', later, his experiences at Gemini Studios reflected in Anbin most of his works later. 'Parisu', 'Thanneer, Manasa Appavin Snegidhar', rovar', ' ' (The Eighteenth Parallel), The 'Ghosts of  ' and '  ' are among his memorable works. Ashokamitran, whose real name was Thyagarajan, was an one-man army in style and story-telling. The doctor asked him to get admitted to hospital a couple of days ago for asthma. But he was not willing to.
 
 “On Thursday, at 6 pm, he felt uneasiness and we took care of him. He had some food, but at 8 pm he left us,“ said T  , the younger son of Ashokamitran and a senior journalist. Ashokamitran knew Chennai like his palm, but he always pretended that he knew only a little about the city. It was for an online magazine, he started writing about his impressions of Chennai in 1998. The publisher wanted him to write about T Nagar. After two episodes, he asked him to continue it, writing about other places in Chennai. The book 'Chennai City: A Kaleidoscope' has 21 chapters and every chapter has a writer associated with the place. “This is not a guide of Chennai so you may not find details about every place. It's my impressions of some places in the city,“ Ashokamitran once said in an interview. Apparently, an article by Ashokamitran that TOI carried on March 1 remains one of his last last published works. To the edited version, he humbly said, “Excellent. Congratulations.Go ahead.“ Ashokamtran has written eight novels, 15 novellas and more than 200 short stories. He won the Sahitya Akademi Award for 'Appavin Snegidhar' in 1996. He is survived by his wife and three sons.
 
