LUCKNOW:There was a bonanza in store for the state capital as six members of Yogi ministry—including the deputy CM—were taken from the city. If one adds  , who started his career as a corproator in Lucknow, the number touches seven. While   is the city mayor, four   making the grade are Rita Bahuguna Joshi, Gopal Tandon, Brijesh Pathak and Swati Singh. Cricketer Mohsin Raza, who is not a member of any house, completes the city tally. 

 Former UP Congress chief Rita Joshi joined BJP just before elections to take on Mulayam Singh Yadav’s ‘chhoti bahu’ Aparna and defeated her with a thumping margin of over 33,000 votes. “The mandate has proved that people want development and we are committed to fulfilling the promise,” she said.
 
 Once very close to Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati, Brajesh Pathak, also, joined BJP before elections. The 50-year-old, who has been given a cabinet berth, defeated SP minister Ravidas Mehrotra in Lucknow Central. Even before he took the oath of office, he shared his contact number on Facebook offering it as a helpline for anyone in need in the constituency, the heart of UP’s capital. Débutante politician Swati Singh who won the Sarojaninagar seat is minister of state with independent charge. Since the time she entered poll waters, Swati has been raising issues related to women safety and empowerment. She now looks forward to an apt role to be able to make women feel safer on streets and inside their homes. All the newly elected MLAs have expressed commitment to the city’s development. Two-time MLA Ashutosh Tandon ‘Gopaljee’, the son of former MP Lalji Tandon, defeated Congress Party’s Anurag Singh. He has promised to promote the art and culture of Lucknow. 
 
 BJP spokesperson, Ranji player-turned-politician Mohsin Raza, who was appointed as minister of state and is the lone Muslim face in Yogi’s team hails from Old City. Talking to reporters he promised to ensure Old City got its due in the race for development.
 
 Deputy CM Dinesh Sharma, who has been mayor of Lucknow for two terms has filled stakeholders in the tourism sector with hope. An academic and expert on the subject, Sharma has been a member in state tourism development board while as the city mayor, he knows the roadblocks hampering its development into a smart city.
 
 
 
