Mumbai: Global private equity majors   and   are joining forces to make a $1.8-billion bid for the   of siblings Malvinder and Shivinder Singh of Religare, said people with knowledge of the matter. The latest development has catapulted the combine ahead in the race to acquire two listed companies —   and Fortis Malar — which will also house   in a rejig exercise. 

 The Singh brothers directly and indirectly own 52% in Fortis Healthcare, which is the country’s second-largest private hospital chain by market value. SRL Diagnostics, the largest medical-diagnostics firm in the country, is in the midst of being spun off from Fortis Healthcare and being brought under Fortis Malar, a subsidiary in which Fortis Healthcare holds 63%. Fortis Healthcare and Fortis Malar together have a market value in excess of Rs 11,600 crore, or $1.8 billion.
 
 The consortium bid from TPG and General Atlantic — if it goes past the legal challenges posed by Daiichi Sankyo, which had acquired Ranbaxy from the Singh brothers — could split the assets after the deal. TPG could retain the hospitals network, while General Atlantic could gain control of SRL Diagnostics, sources cited earlier in the report added. When contacted, TPG declined to comment. Queries to General Atlantic executives went unanswered. A Fortis spokesperson declined to comment on market speculation.
 
 The sources added that rival bidders such as Malaysia’s IHH Healthcare and Bain Capital have kept their interests alive. The bidders are keenly watching if the courts would come in the way of last month’s proposed sale of Religare Health Insurance to Indian private equity firm True North. Japanese pharma giant Daiichi Sankyo had informed the Delhi high court that the insurance sale violated an order requiring permission to part with unencumbered assets. Last year, a Singapore arbitration panel had directed the Singh brothers to pay Daiichi Sankyo Rs 2,500 crore for withholding critical information while selling Ranbaxy to it a decade ago. 
 
 The brothers have also discussed financing-cum-equity deals with KKR & Co as they battle a debt burden estimated at over Rs 5,000 crore. The deal-making could run into structuring issues apart from tepid growth in the healthcare sector in recent quarters, as negative macro headlines and regulatory interventions have derailed several smaller transactions in the sector. But improving healthcare affordability, changing disease patterns, greater health awareness and rising insurance coverage is expected to boost the long-term prospects of the sector, expected to touch Rs 6.85 lakh crore by 2020.
 
 Successful consortium bids by global investors are common in the mature Western markets, and have been picking up momentum in India as big buyout deals start to happen. Recent instances include Advent International and Temasek coming together to buy Crompton Greaves Consumer and KKR & Co along with Canadian Pension Plan buying into Bharti Infratel with an eye on further consolidation in telecom tower assets.
 
 
