NAGPUR: With 3,006 applications received by the   from ticket aspirants for the forthcoming  , the party is currently grappling with the problem of plenty. There are 151 seats and of them a small number may be spared for the ally RPI (Athavale). A new process — counselling of hopefuls — to soften the blow of likely rejection has begun in right earnest.

 This is the first time the party has seen such a rush. Normally it is the Congress party where ticket seekers for any election, be it of civic body, the state Assembly or  , are seen in larger numbers. Till few years ago the Congress aspirant was driven by sheer power of the party symbol and sure of win in any election.
 
 Now, the BJP is the party in pole position. For the civic polls scheduled on February 21, the BJP has attracted double the applications as compared to the Congress. This is because of an overwhelming view that the BJP would retain power for third term in a row riding on the backs of city-based political heavyweights — chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Union transport minister  .
 
 Yet, screening and shortlisting of candidates is not easy as the end result more often is large-scale disgruntlement. Those denied look for greener pastures in other parties and switch over to settle scores. “To avoid the bad blood we are holding meetings in each of the state Assembly segments of the city. Already completed that in five, including South Nagpur on Thursday. On Friday we will hold such a meeting in Central Nagpur,” city BJP President Sudhakar Kohale told TOI.
 
 “We explain the nitty-gritty of elections and the challenges. With examples of how loyalty to party helps in the long term, specific cases of how leaders like Sudhakar Deshmukh, Anil Sole, Girish Vyas instances worked hard for years before getting chance to contest major elections are cited,” explained Kohale. The 23-member parliamentary board headed by Sole is present at these meetings to counsel aspirants.
 
 Party insiders say the final decision on selection will rest with Gadkari and Fadnavis. In fact, one source insisted that Gadkari has clearly told the board that he wants only 500 names before him to choose the final 151. “So, our task is to shorten the list till that level,” said Kohale. But he was hopeful that this would be done smoothly. “Our party is different in this regard, each aspirant knows this,” he added for effect. 
 
