PUNE: The slums across the city were brimming with enthusiasm to go out and vote on Tuesday in sharp contrast to the apathy in  .

 Some booths in the slum pockets were crowded from early morning. But voting in most of these areas gathered momentum late in the afternoon.
 
 The increase in voting in slums compared to previous elections is likely to be a deciding factor in the verdict because they house around 40% of city’s population. Good voting in these bastions of the Congress and NCP could be a reason for worry for the BJP.
 
 According to the census, more than 40% of the city’s population lives in slums. The population increase has been rapid since 1960. The slum population has gone up from 92,000 in 1961 to around 14.7 lakh in 2011.
 
 The city has around 560 slums. Of them, over 350 are declared and 210 are undeclared. Historically, the slums have been showing good response to voting. The trend continued on Tuesday.
 
 Rahul Khade, a member of Ganraj group in Kelewadi slums, said, “An enthusiastic response was seen in our area. We are a group of youngsters working in a social group. Most of us are either students or working professionals. We went to vote early. After casting the vote, we started helping others to exercise their right.”
 
 He said the rush of voters was more in the slum areas this year compared to the previous elections. The voters, especially youngsters, were coming out in large numbers in slums.
 
 Ajay Kajik, a resident of  , said, “Our planning was to keep ourselves free during the afternoon and evening so that we could bring people to the polling booths. None of us have any political preference. But we felt it is our duty to help increase the voter turnout.”
 
 Several political workers also preferred casting their votes early in a bid to bring others to polling stations. “We wanted to increase the voting percentage. Workers like us had to do manage booths and search the names of voters,” said Dhanraj Dede, an office-bearer of the BJP’s youth wing staying in Laxminagar slums.
 
 Residents of Laxminagar, Kelewadi, Patil, Pandavnagar, Kashewadi and Shastrinagar slums were seen rushing to the polling booths at the last moment. The reduction in number of voters attached to a booth changed the dynamics of voting in these areas.
 
 Prakash Maruti Pawar, a political analyst, said, “The results will be complex to analyse due to numerous factors. Issues such as four-candidate ward system and   grabbing the space of opposition will have an impact on the results. As the NCP and Congress joined hands, they will have a slight benefit because the vote division will be reduced.”
 
