BENGALURU: The state   to drop the   after vehemently advocating it is a major victory for Bengalureans resisting the project.

 The steel flyover from   was first brought up in 2013 but forgotten for the next three years. In April 2016, the government suddenly rushed through a slew of approvals and tenders were floated, even before holding a public hearing, to axe 812 trees for the project. The undue haste on the part of the government raised citizens' guard and the protests intensified. Citizens took up the war cry: Steel bridge beda (We don't want the steel bridge). Eminent citizens including Naresh Narasimhan, Prakash Belavadi, Priya Chetty Rajagopal, Srinivas Alavilli, Tara Krishnaswamy and Sridhar Pabbisetty took the lead in mobilizing protests, describing the steel bridge as “a band-aid on Bengaluru's traffic woes“. Thousands of citizens joined them in the protests.
 
 “It is a victory for the participatory democracy.   get brushed under the carpet but when people put pressure on the government, they back down. The diary was just a trigger. This is the beginning towards a better Bengaluru. What we did was necessary but we have to do more,“ said Tara Krishnaswamy, a member of Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB).
 
 The protests brought together residents' welfare associations,  ,   and individuals who formed the Citizens Against Steel Flyover (CASF) in September 2016 as the government's work on the project gained pace.
 
 On October 16, 2016, thousands of citizens came out on to Ballari Road, where the steel bridge was to be built, and formed a human chain to protest against the project. This was one of the few times Bengaluru united and fought against a single infrastructure project.
 
 “We were not against the government. It was a tipping point. People were frustrated with the bad infrastructure and lack of transparency in the government's functioning.Citizens have always protested but on Facebook or Twitter. For the first time, they came out to oppose this project. Although it is a win for the citizens, we have to be eternally vigilant,“ said Srinivas Alavilli, another activist.
 
 Despite the angry voices against the project, the government remained adamant, expediting work. Tenders were floated in April and the contract awarded to a consortium of L&T and Nagarjuna Construction Company in September 2016. Both CM Siddaramaiah and city in-charge minister K J George said the project would go ahead despite the protests. BDA said it got 299 responses from citizens in five days during an informal public opinion seeking process and 73% were in favour of the project.
 
 Citizen Action Forum, a platform of resident welfare associations and citizen groups, filed petition against the axing of 812 trees without following forest laws in the National Green Tribunal. On October 28, the southern bench of the tribunal in Chennai stayed work on the project for four weeks which is in effect till date.
 
 “The government anticipated that the NGT order would go against it. In the last hearing on January 30, the bench was not willing to accept the state's contention that the project will protect the environment. They kept arguing the lies that the project was part of the development of the national highway which it was not. Secondly, the diary has created rift within the party and brought pressure from the top. And finally, there was the citizens' relentless fight to cancel the tender,“ said N Mukund, one of the petitioners and founding president of CAF.
 
 Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, chairperson and managing director, Biocon, said the decision reflected a sensitive response to citizen concerns. “I believe we need augmented infrastructure. We do need flyovers in parts of the city to de-congest the traffic but flyovers must be road-upon-road with minimum disruption to greenery,“ she said.
 
