KOLKATA: Tipplers in Kolkata and beyond could be heading for a dry weekend. Stocks across off-shops are dwindling fast following an indefinite strike called by distributors’ employees from Monday. Most retailers fear they would run out of stock in the next 48 hours.

 The strike has been called by the West Bengal Foreign   Sales Representatives’ Welfare Association to protest the state government’s decision to take over liquor distributorship from private agencies.
 
 Several popular brands like Officer’s Choice, Blender’s Pride, Smirnoff and Old Monk have already disappeared from shelves at many central and north Kolkata off-shops. Frantic calls are being made to distributors’ offices, but there is no news yet of a supply revival. Since ret-ailers don’t stock more than 2-3 days’ supplies, time is running out for them. “We have started running out of some brands. Unless supply resumes immediately, we would be out of most top-selling brands by Friday. It would be a big blow for us since sales peak during weekends,” said   of Venus, an off-shop in Burrabazar.
 
 New Alipore resident Ashok Bubna has been missing his favourite whisky this week. He searched several off-shops in south and central Kolkata but failed to get hold of his preferred tipple. “It’s a very common brand which you normally get anywhere in the city. So, I was surprised that it’s turned scarce. I am now planning to stock a few bottles for the weekend,” said Bubna. At RR Shaw, a Chandi Chowk off-shop, stocks are expected to last till Friday evening. “It’s a helpless situation. We have been caught in a crossfire between the distributors and the government. Eventually, we will lose money,” said an employee.
 
 According to the West Bengal Foreign Liquor Manufacturers, Wholesalers and  , supply has come down to a trickle following the strike but hasn’t come to a dead stop yet. But while the city consumes six lakh cases a month, including beer and wine, less than 20% of that volume is now reaching the off-shops. “The impact will obviously be very severe if the strike is not called off soon. Retailers don’t have stocks to last more than 2-3 days, so they will go dry by the end of this week. Depending on the volume of sales, some brands will vanish faster than the rest,” said a senior official of the association.
 
 In February, the state government announced its decision to venture into liquor distributorship that has so far been run by private agencies. Even though the government hasn’t said it would establish a monopoly, distributors fear their yearly licenses may not be renewed after the proposed West Bengal State Beverages Corp. Ltd is launched. Around 17,000 people directly and indirectly employed in the sector face the risk of losing jobs, according to West Bengal Liquor Manufacturers Wholesalers and Bonders Association. Distributors are scheduled to have their licenses renewed on July 31. It could be extended, according to sources in the industry.
 
 The sudden squeeze in supply could turn out to be profitable for restaurants, though. With far greater stocks, they are eyeing a rise in sales this weekend. “Most of us have enough in store for a month-and-half. We knew about the strike and had piled up a little more. If the strike is not called off, we would be selling more this weekend,” said Pratap Daryanani, owner of Oasis restaurant on Park Street.
 
 
