MELBOURNE: Former Australia fast bowler   has accused skipper Steve Smith of favouritism in team selection, and also ripped apart the selectors for the run of losses in the ongoing ODI series against India.

 Australia trail the hosts 0-3 in the five-match series.
 
 "They're picking their mates. Smith shouldn't be a selector. (Ashton) Agar's been pushed through and Cartwright's still there. We saw (Nic) Maddinson get selected (he's) a mate, he's one of Steve Smith's mates. You can't pick bloody mates," Hogg was quoted as saying on 'SEN's The Run Home'.
 
 "We've got to get fair dinkum. We're really off the ball a bit here ... I think the captain's getting his own way."
 
 Hogg, who was menacingly fast in his heydays, played international cricket in the late seventies and early eighties. He said a serious review of Australia's selection panel and their decision making process was needed if the Aussies are to improve.
 
 "All the way down, there's got to be question marks. All the way across  ," he said.
 
 Hogg also questioned Cricket Australia's decision to call upon Steve O'Keefe to partner   for the two-match Test series against Bangladesh. Hogg felt   should have been picked ahead of O'Keefe.
 
 "Holland has proven he can bowl people out, left-arm orthodox is a really hard gig. He's proven it and we aren't seeing him," said Hogg.
 
 Meanwhile, Australia's opening batsman   brushed aside Hogg's accusation that Smith prefers to "pick his friends" in the national team.
 
 "Everyone is going to have their opinions and they are entitled to have their opinions. I don't know from where all these theories crop up from. It is up to the selectors to pick the team and at the end of the day, if you are picked up, you go out there and give your best. That is how it always has been," Warner told reporters on the eve of the fourth ODI against India and Australia.
 
 Differing with Hogg's views, Warner added, "Moreover, players do not have anything in their hands about getting selected or not selected, only thing they can do is to perform to their best of abilities."
 
