NAGPUR: The state government is considering granting concession in entry fee to volunteers for taking active part in ‘Green Maharashtra’ mission aiming to plant 50 crore saplings by 2019.

 “The modalities are being worked out. The government will also issue certificates and prizes to volunteers to encourage them in the drive,” said  , deputy director of social forestry department (SFD).
 
 Launching the drive on Monday to raise ‘Green Army’ of over 1 crore volunteers in the state, which aims to increase forest cover from existing 20% to 33%, Nagpur deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) G Mallikarjuna appealed to school students, college youth and citizens to join the  .
 
 Members intending to volunteer in the Green Army may register by logging into the website (www.greenarmy.mahaforest.gov.in). Members registering may be able to download a provisional certificate, subject to final verification, of being a member of the Green Army. This innovative effort is seen to create dedicated volunteers for the   mission in near future.
 
 Mallikarjuna said, till now, 12,292 volunteers have registered with the Green Army. “Our target is to rope in 250 schools in the group from each district. These volunteers would be working hand in hand with forest department in achieving the desired results.”
 
 The forest department after the humongous success of 2 crore plantation drive on July 1, 2016 is planning to undertake plantation of 50 crore saplings in the span of next 3 years. This year, the target has been kept at 4 crore saplings in the state.
 
 “Of this, 15 lakh saplings will be planted in Nagpur district by forest and other departments and private agencies. We have sought database of land available for plantations from the district administration. At least 21 lakh saplings are ready with our nurseries,” said Mallikarjuna.
 
 On July 1, 2016, 2.81 crore saplings were planted on 65,674 sites all over Maharashtra. However, this time the plantations will be done in one week. “This will help us take up plantations in a systematic manner,” said WI Yatbon, conservator of forests (CF), SFD, Nagpur.
 
 Mishrikotkar said, “We have learnt lessons from the last drive and this time we are preparing for plantation drive for 2018. These saplings will be supplied through 19 nurseries of SFD and an equal number of nurseries of territorial department in the district.”
 
