In a move to encourage   to pay   tax, the   has announced an incentive scheme to provide Rs 5 lakh to those resident welfare associations who will ensure tax payment by majority of the residents in their area. The commissioner had passed an order on May 2, where 80% of the dues are cleared by May 31. He said the amount will be spent on beautification of parks, green belts, up-gradation of community centres, or any other work of similar nature. TNNGurgaon: The carrot and stick policy adopted by the Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon (MCG) to make residents pay the property tax seems to have worked. Residents are showing keen interest in clearing the property tax dues with a hope that MCG would take over their areas. 

 Since its formation in 2008, the MCG is finding it hard to persuade residents to pay property tax, with some residents’ bodies even approaching the court against what they claimed ‘dual taxation’.   (GCC), an umbrella organisation of resident welfare associations, had approached the Punjab and   in 2009, claiming that the residents were being forced to pay property tax twice –once by the private builder and again by MCG. 
 
 However, the high court had dismissed the petition. The GCC then approached the   in 2012, which turned down the plea, saying as it was a state issue and only the HC could take a decision. The matter has been pending in the HC since 2013. MCG commissioner V Umashankar on May 16 had informed RWAs that their areas would be taken over by the MCG only if they cleared the property tax dues. 
 
 The GCC has planned to set up tax collection camps in DLF areas from May 25 to 27, where MCG officials will meet property owners and answer their queries on property tax payments. 
 
 “While the recent rebate scheme offered by the government is attractive, owing to which several residents are clearing their tax dues, we will continue to fight the case in the high court and ensure that the tax amount collected from private colony residents over the years by the MCG is adjusted in future,” said GCC president RS Rathee.
 
 
