KOLKATA: This is sure to come as good news for the quintessential  . A bigger supply of live fish, which would be easier on the wallet too, is set to hit city markets and its adjoining areas soon.

 In almost all markets, the price of live fish is more than double than that of frozen fish. While live climbing perch (koi) sells for around Rs 300 to Rs 350kg, the icedup version of the same delicacy comes for Rs 150-170 per kg.
 
 Similarly , the prices of bigger live fish like rohu, katla and others are almost Rs 60 to Rs 70 more than the `cold' variety. The   ( ) is on way to procure a total of 10 special containers that will be able to carry live fish for almost two days. Officials said once the markets get more supply of live fish, prices will automatically come down and be almost on a par with frozen fish.
 
 SFDC officials said they have received the funds nod for nearly Rs 1crore under the Centre's   to procure 10 special one-tonne containers that can carry about 600 kg of live fish for about 30 to 40 hours. This would be the first-ofits-kind initiative in the country to carry live fish. At present, fish from the co astal areas of Digha, Fra serganj and   is imported in refrigerated containers.
 
 “The price of live fish is always higher (about Rs 60 to Rs 80 more) than refrigerated fish.The demand for live fish among Bengalis is always higher. These special fish containers will be able to carry about 500-600 kg of live fish for a stretch of 30 to 40 hours, depending on the amount and size of fish being carried,“ an official of State Fisheries Development Corporation (SFDC) said.
 
 SFDC had earlier sent a proposal to Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana, which is under the ministry of agriculture. “They have approved the scheme and would give funding to buy the fish containers. Each container would cost around Rs 11 lakh. Five containers would be procured in the first phase.Tenders would be floated for the same,“ said another official. Officials said the fish conta iners, looking very similar to oil tankers, will have one tonne (1,000 kg) water-storing capacity. An oxygen cylinder will be fixed inside the container to supply oxygen for a stretch of around 30 hours. There would be a lid on top of the container and it would be like a moving aquarium. The oxygen supply technique would be similar like the aerator filling up oxygen inside an aquarium and the water temperature would also be regulated. “Different fish varieties have different oxygen-consuming levels. It would be planned out as to what sizes of fish and how much   could be best suitable to be carried in such containers,“ an official said.
 
