For stunt-biking enthusiasts,   from Lithuania is a familiar name. With several European titles to his credit, Aras has a fan following across the globe. He was in the city recently, performing to a packed audience as part of a bike launch. On the sidelines of his show, he spoke us about his visits to India, riding on Indian roads, his training, performances, and more. Excerpts... 

 
 This is my second visit to Chennai. I was all excited the minute I was informed about my Chennai visit this time. The last time I was here, the crowd that came to watch me perform was kickass. It was no different this year. I was also aware about the big community of biking enthusiasts in Chennai, and the bike racing circuit in the city. So, I had enough reasons to be excited about coming back to Chennai again.
 
 
 I had a chat with a gang of local stunt bikers from Chennai. I was keen on catching up with them. Though they are excited and keenly follow   news and trends from all over the world, they regret lack of dedicated stunt-biking circuits in the city. I also realised how keen they’re to switch to bigger bikes, like the 1600cc ones. But I know that it isn’t easy getting them here.
 
 
 I am always tempted to do some stunts on bike even while riding on normal roads. On Friday, I went for a ride by 6am from the hotel in Guindy to Marina Beach and back. The road was quite free and I was so tempted to do some wheeling and other stunts. But I managed to control the temptation (laughs). I know that it’s not allowed here, and therefore, I didn’t want to flout the rules. 
 
 
 I was only 10 years old when my grandad got me a scooter. Within a week’s time, I started wheeling on it all around my street. Meanwhile, I also developed an interest in racing. But with lack of racing circuits in my country, I decided to give up racing. Instead, I got completely hooked to stunt biking. I would put barricades on four sides and create enough space to do the stunts. That’s how I got started with stunt biking. 
 
 
 Oh, that’s the only way out to get things right in stunt biking. I practise five days a week, clocking at least four hours each day. At the same time, like in any other sport, following a proper diet and getting adequate rest are as important as practice. You can’t go haywire and be a biker. 
 
 
 Improvising is all that matters during the show. I have my routine freestyle tricks, but during the show, it’s all about improvising. And that mainly depends on the energy of people who come to watch me perform. When the crowd is cheering me on, with people screaming at the top of their voices , they are assured of a top-notch performance from me. 
 
 
 Traffic in India is totally crazy. But it’s something every foreigner must experience in India. Last year, I went for a two-hour ride in Hyderabad and it was such an amazing experience. When I go back home from India, traffic is one thing I miss. In India, one of the rules is to break the traffic rules (laughs). 
 
 
 I perform a very risky sport. Therefore, I never compromise on safety. That’s the first thing that I ensure when I step out to perform. But it isn’t something that needs to be ensured only in a sport like this. It is equally important to ensure safety while riding on a normal road. In India, I see a lot of people riding bikes without helmet. That is definitely not a good 
 thing do. 
 
