BHUBANESWAR: Almost a month after the announcement of the  , the   for Plus II courses in 1,500   in the state started on Monday. Over 35,000 students have submitted   for admissions in science, arts or commerce streams in different colleges on the first day. There are 4,02,017 seats in junior colleges. 

 The state government has made some revisions in the admission process like the number of choices for colleges has increased to 10 instead of six and the application fee has also been brought down, official sources said. 
 
 The number of choices for students has been increased from six to 10 this year. "Earlier, a student had to pay Rs 120 for the first college and Rs 75 extra for each additional choice in the application form. Now students have to pay a total fee of Rs 300 for any number of choices of colleges up to 10," said Mihir Das, state nodal officer for e-admission. The application fee for ST and SC students is Rs 200, he added. 
 
 After filling common application forms online, students have to submit hard copies of the forms at different Students Academic Management Systems (SAMS) centres. The last date of applying online is June 7 and students can submit application forms offline by June 9. The first merit list will be declared on June 13 and the first round of admissions will be held between June 16 and 19, official sources said. 
 
 For helping the students in e-admission process and to provide further information 661 SAMS resource centres has been opened across the state. Besides, the department has also provided a tollfree helpline number to answer any admission-related queries. 
 
 Despite summer vacation, city colleges have witnessed a high footfall of students who were seen filling up forms at SAMS centres. 
 
 "It has been almost one month since our results were out. The government should have started the process of admission earlier. In CBSE and ICSE-medium schools, classes started soon after the examinations were over," said Anushka Panda, who submitted her form at Rama Devi Women's Junior College here. The classes in Plus II colleges is scheduled to begin on July 6. 
 
 
