Chandigarh: The Haryana legislative assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution urging the central government to set up a separate high court for the state.

 In its resolution , the state assembly has requested for an amendment by Parliament in the Punjab Reorganization Act, 1966, to provide for the creation of a separate HC for Haryana within the capital city Chandigarh. This is third such resolution in passed in the assmebly in the past 15 years.
 
 “While Haryana has completed 50 years of its existence as a separate state, a separate HC has still not been provided for the state. During this period, the people of Haryana have suffered in manifold ways, including through delays in the disposal of their cases due to heavy workload in the common HC,” says the resolution. It added that there are only 18 judges from Haryana against a total sanctioned strength of 85. There are 13 Judges from Haryana under direct quota drawn from advocates of the HC, against a sanctioned strength of 23, leading to under-representation of the advocates from Haryana.
 
 Chief minister Manohal Lal Khattar also told the House that he had also taken up the matter of a separate high court for Haryana on priority basis with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his recent meeting on April 22. Almost every government has promised to set up a separate HC for Haryana, however, nothing has been done so far.
 
 In 2002, the assembly had passed a resolution recommending the bifurcation of HC and setting up of a separate high court for Haryana on March 14, 2002. At that time Om Prakash Chautala was the CM. Thereafter, another resolution was passed on December 15, 2005, by assembly during the Bhupinder Singh Hooda regime. Despite 10 years of the Congress rule in the state and the Centre, Hooda failed to fulfill the promise. He, however, had promised it again in his manifesto for the 2014 assembly polls.
 
 CM Khattar had also written the Centre in April 2015 for creating of separate HC for Haryana. 
 
 Why separate HC for Haryana:
 
 Legal fraternity in Haryana has been arguing that they have suffered due to a common high court for Punjab and Haryana for the past 46 years. According to them separate high court for Haryana may be established in the existing premises at Chandigarh by allocating 40 per cent of the building, ministerial staff and administrative functionaries along with judges appointed against the quota of Haryana state. Lawyers fraternity has been arguing that they were being deprived of representation into bench and even pendency of cases is increasing due to vacancy of judges.
 
 Unending wait:
 
 Mar 2002 | INLD government in Haryana passes resolution in assembly urging the Centre for a separate HC
 
 Dec 2005 | Bhupinder Hooda-led government also passes a resolution urging the Centre to set up separate high court for Haryana 
 
 Mar 2006 | The then Union law minister Hans Raj Bhardwaj announces a separate HC
 
 May 2006 | Bhardwaj seeks information pertaining to the site and time frame for setting up of the HC
 
 Jul 2006 | Haryana tells the Centre that separate HC can be set up in Chandigarh by bifurcating the existing building
 
 Feb, Mar, Jun 2011 | Then law minister Veerpa Moily claims matter is “under serious consideration”
 
 Apr 2015 | CM Manohar Lal Khattar urges the Centre to consider creation of a separate HC
 
 Jul 2015 | HC constitutes four judges committee to consider a separate bench of HC, not results till date
 
 Nov 2016 | CM Manohal Lal Khattar claims, he has raised issue again with the Centre
 
 Apr 22, 2017 | CM urges PM to accord priority for a separate HC for Haryana
 
 May 4 | Assembly passes one more resolution demanding the same
 
 
