Mumbai:Drug prices regulator,   has allowed US biggie,   to withdraw its brands of bioresorbable   from India, citing “global safety concerns of enhanced adverse cardiac activity’’. Keeping in mind the safety concerns raised by drug regulators in US, Europe and Australia, and also in India, the NPPA decided to allow immediate withdrawal of Abbott’s   brands of coronary stents by relaxing the mandatory period of six months in public interest. 

 In a meeting held on September 19, NPPA noted the fact that ‘safety concerns’ was the major reason behind low commercial global sales of these brands. Abbott had applied for permission on September 8 to withdraw these stents from India, as it decided to stop manufacturing them due to a “low commercial uptake”. 
 
 Under Para 21 of the Drug Price Control Order, 2013, a manufacturer of a scheduled formulation, who intends to discontinue the product, has to inform the government at least six months prior to the discontinuation. The government can, in public interest, direct the manufacturer to continue with production or import for a period of one year after the intended discontinuation. 
 
 Absorb sales accounted for less than 1% of Abbott’s overall stent sales globally, including India, industry experts say. In April, NPPA denied Abbott permission to withdraw Absorb following price caps that had slashed its price by nearly 85% to Rs 29,600 from a maximum retail price of Rs 1.8 lakh. The NPPA on Thursday directed Abbott to follow up with patients who have been implanted with the stents and those undergoing existing Absorb clinical trials, and attend to all follow up issues arising in these cases, in a similar manner as asked by US and European drug regulators. 
 
 In April, Abbott had initiated a recall of bioresorbable vascular scaffold (BVS) stents in US, quoting studies showing elevated rates of major adverse events, specifically, myocardial infraction and scaffold thrombosis when compared to patients treated with its Xience metallic drug eluting stent, a   (USFDA) notice said. Following this, drug regulator, Central Drug Standard Control Organisation issued an alert asking patients and doctors to report adverse events suspected to be associated with the use of these stents. 
 
 These first-generation stents were approved by USFDA in July 2016, while in March this year, the regulator issued a warning on their use.
 
 
