KOCHI/THRISSUR: More allegations arose against actor   – who is still in police custody – after CBI recorded the statement of director Baiju Kottarakara who was summoned to agency’s office in Kochi on Wednesday. On Thursday, RLV Ramakrishnan, the brother of late actor Kalabhavan Mani, asked the agency to investigate the alleged financial transactions between Dileep and his brother.

 “CBI recorded my statement around 3pm. I handed over whatever I had on the   between Mani and Dileep. I received a call from a woman In Kozhikode who is part of the film industry. She told me about the land dealings of Dileep. She suspects that he was involved in Mani’s death. I had recorded my conversation with her. I handed it over to CBI,” said Kottarakara.
 
 Ramakrishnan said that Kottarakara had made a public statement suggesting that he had received some information on financial deals involving Mani and Dileep. “I had checked the same with him. He was willing to pass on the information to CBI officers probing my brother’s case. I understand they have contacted him,” he said.
 
 Earlier, Ramakrishnan had expressed apprehensions that Mani’s death might have happened over some business deal. “I stand by what I said. I had not mentioned anyone by name then and I don’t intent to do so now. SIT will probe and bring out the facts,” he said, adding that Dileep had once visited him after Mani’s death
 
 CBI sources maintained that they were verifying the veracity of the allegation. The agency took over the case following a high court directive in May. Mani was found unconscious under mysterious circumstances at Chalakudy last year. The state police had found pesticide residue in Mani’s blood.
 
 Meanwhile, speculations were rife that the special investigation team (SIT) was collecting the statement of Dileep’s wife, Kavya Madhavan on Thursday, a claim investigators rubbished later. “We have Dileep in custody. Kavya hasn’t been questioned,” said Ernakulam (rural) SP AV George, who is part of SIT.
 
 George said that the conspiracy to assault the actor was first hatched in 2013 and Pulsar Suni took four years to execute the plan as he was absconding for another crime. “Suni was accused in a robbery case at Pala and he went underground. He was hiding at Coimbatore and returned when the plot got thicker,” he said.
 
 Sources said the plan was revived in 2016 at a location in Thrissur and the initial move was to attack the survivor during a movie shoot in Goa. However, Suni was unsuccessful as he couldn’t find enough men for the task.
 
