NEW DELHI: A day after a   deployed in Jammu and Kashmir alleged that troops are served very poor quality food, the   on Tuesday alleged that the soldier was on the verge of being "court-martialled for indiscipline". 

 A day after he released the video, the border force alleged that Yadav has had a difficult past and that right from the start of service, has needed regular counselling. 
 
 "He (Yadav) has four bad entries in his 20 years of service, hence, wasn't promoted which can be cause of frustration," DIG BSF MDS Mann said.
 
 Yesterday, in a   post and video, BSF jawan   of the 29 battalion Seema Suraksha Bal - which is situated along the Line of Control - talked at length about what corruption in the force's administration and showed pictures of "poor-quality food". He alleged that the government wasn't to blame. It was the seniors, who sell supplies meant for the soldiers in the open market. He urged the prime Minister to investigate.
 
 "If any of his allegations are found true we will certainly initiate action against the defaulters," Mann said.
 
 BSF is also considering taking strict action against the soldier for "indiscipline" as he was carrying a mobile phone with him on duty, which jawans on duty aren't allowed to.
 
 "He (Yadav) has indulged in indisciplinary actions in the past too. He was to be court-martialed in 2010 but considering his family he wasn't dismissed," IG BSF, DK Upadhyay said while addressing media in Jammu.
 
 "Right now, he will be shifted to a different headquarter so that no one can pressurise him and fair enquiry can be held," Upadhyay added.
 
 Yesterday, BSF said it has also asked a DIG level officer to visit the camp and investigate the conditions there.
 
 "As far as the food is concerned. I can agree that taste might not be very great as in winters there is tinned and dehydrated food but have never received any complaint from jawans regarding the same,"the IG BSF said, adding that there will be a through probe and action will be taken.
 
 "For now, an enquiry has been ordered and DIG level officers are at the camp," he said.
 
 After the video went viral, Union Home Minister   also ordered an inquiry into the BSF constable's allegations. 
 
 "I have seen a video regarding a BSF jawan's plight. I have asked the HS (Home Secretary) to immediately seek a report from the BSF & take appropriate action," the home minister tweeted late last night.
 
 Meanwhile, Minister of State (Home) Kiren   too has assured that any lapse in the welfare of defence forces will be addressed on priority.
 
 "Welfare of our Security Forces is our absolute priority. Any anomaly to be dealt with firmly," Rijiju said, according to ANI.
 
 In Yadav's video, filmed at an undisclosed location, Yadav said that the soldiers stand for 11 straight hours every day regardless of the extreme weather, but they are treated in the worst possible way imaginable.
 
 "Neither the media, nor any minister tries to understand what we are going through (harsh weather). We live in the worst-possible conditions. After this, I will share three videos that will show how we are being mistreated by our officials. We don't want to blame any particular government, because they give us everything we need. But it is our seniors who see supplies meant for us to the local market, so it never reaches us," the soldier said in the video.
 
 Yadav then proceeded to show pictures of the food they are served.
 
 "I will show you that we get only one paratha in the breakfast that too without any curry, or pickle. We get it (paratha) only with a cup of tea. In the afternoon, I'll show you how we get 'daal', its only turmeric and salt and nothing else, I will also show you the condition of the chapattis," Yadav said.
 
 Reiterating that he is not blaming the government, Yadav further said that their rations are sold in the market, and called for the situation to be investigated.
 
 "I request honourable Prime Minister also to look into the matter. Friends, I may not live once I upload this video, as my officials are very powerful. Kindly share the video as much as possible so that every media organisation come here and investigate and witness how soldiers are living," he said.
 
