Bhopal: Election year is going to be a challenging one for chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for ‘natural’ reasons. The truant monsoon this year is not only going to aggravate the agrarian crisis, but could even affect the Rabi crop in 2018 — just six months before the state goes to the polls.

 The CM was quick to recognize the crisis, called an emergency meeting of his ministers last week, and sent them scrambling to the districts for a field report on the ‘drought-like situation’. That’s quite characteristic of Chouhan. What isn’t, is his silence on making any drought-related promises unlike previous years. This time, his hands are tied. Under the new drought protocol released by the Centre in December 2016, an area can be tagged drought-affected only if it passes a series of complex checks.
 
 On Monday, a government spokesman said that 34 of 51 districts have received deficient rainfall. Usually, this would lead to announcements by the state and an SOS to the Centre, which would then release funds to fight the drought. It’s not going to be as simple this time.
 
 Fifteen months ahead of elections, Chouhan faces a huge nature-driven crisis — perhaps the toughest in his 13 years as CM. 
 
 “Till September 16, 676.5mm of rainfall was recorded in the state, which is 25 % less than normal (904.8mm). There are places like Shivpuri that are 51% deficient. In fact, the whole of Gwalior-Chambal region is almost 50% rain-deficient,” said a weather official in Bhopal. Drought-prone Bundelkhand is 40-43% short of its rainfall quota. Even Balaghat — the rice bowl of MP — has 38% shortfall. This Kharif crop and perhaps the Rabi one as well could bring a bitter harvest.
 
 It’s all the more crucial because the bad monsoon came in the wake of the violent farmer agitation in June that resulted in six kisan deaths and shook the administration. The government has been in damage-control mode since then. CM Chouhan sought to assuage farmers by hiking procurement price of onion and procuring pulses for the first time. The farmer turbulence was yet to die out when monsoon dealt a double whammy.
 
 Though the government has not yet officially declared drought, a tight-lipped Shivraj has only said he would “take care of farmers”. On Sunday, when reporters asked the CM in Chattarpur — a drought affected district of Bundelkhand — about his plans for farmers, Chouhan preferred to keep silent.
 
 And he has reasons to do so. The new parameters to assess drought have boxed him in.
 
 A senior official said that under the new rules four things need to come together for evaluation of drought: 1. Rainfall figures will be obtained from IMD 2. Remote sensing data will be obtained from Mahalanobis National Crop Forecast Centre 3. Central Water Commission will provide data on availability of water in reservoirs and 4. Central Groundwater Board will give data on underground watertable. If a region checks out on all four parameters, the state will get 100% drought funds. If three parameters are met, the Centre will give 75% funds and the state has to pitch in with 25%. In case only one parameter is met, the state will have to give the funds entirely from its own coffers, sources said. 
 
 Amid all this, district collectors have started reviewing the situation. Last week, the collector of Damoh, Shriniwas Sharma, advised farmers to avoid sowing wheat in the coming Rabi season in view of water scarcity. Chindwara collector J K Jain said, “An advisory was issued for farmers to go for chana and masoor and avoid sowing wheat in the Rabi season.” In Morena, collector Bhaskar Lakshakar made a similar advice — to sow crops that need less water.
 
 Betul collector Shashank Mishra said, “We did issue an advisory and recommended crops that require less water, but the district received good rain in the past two days. We may review our earlier decision.” B M Jamod, collector of Ashoknagar that has received 34% less rainfall this year, said, “It is government policy this year to advise farmers to cultivate crops that require less water. I have banned lifting of water to conserve it for drinking purposes. Irrigation comes later. Farmers are advised to cultivate crops depending on availability of water.”
 
 Principal secretary of agriculture, Rajesh Rajora, said, “Before the onset of Rabi season, we have started mobilizing farmers and holding meets with agriculture experts. We are advising them to sow varieties of wheat that require less water. Or they should cultivate crops like gram and masoor, which do not require more water.”
 
 But farmers of Madhya Pradesh are not used to cultivate such varieties of wheat, like Sharbati. “The per-acre yield of such wheat is low, which is why farmers avoid them. The Lokman variety is most popular among farmers because it is cost effective,” said G S Kaushal, former director of agriculture.
 
 Agriculture minister Gaurishankar Bisen admitted the concern, saying: “It is a fact that deficient rainfall has taken place in many places, including districts of northern Madhya Pradesh. Every district has its own story. We are holding meetings of farmers with experts and creating awareness among them.We are monitoring the situation closely.”
 
 Apprehensions of Rabi season are being expressed because none of the major dams in Madhya Pradesh is not full to capacity as monsoon draws to a close. “With almost 4 crore people linked with farming — a huge vote bank — it looks like the end of politics of drought,” said a minister of the Chouhan cabinet, pointing out that in 2015, even districts with average rainfall were declared drought hit. This won’t be the case this time.
 
 BOX
 
 Soybean: No more a cash crop
 
 Madhya Pradesh could lose its status of ‘soya state’. The area under soybean cultivation has been declining for years because of erratic rainfall and rising import of soya oil from the international market. The worst affected is Malwa region, which produces almost 20% of the country’s oilseed. The area under soybean cultivation has gone down by 12 lakh hectares in the last four years and farmers are shifting to pulses and paddy. In 2013, the area under soybean cultivation was 63 lakh hectares, which dropped to about 50 lakh hectares this year. D N Pathak, executive director of state unit of soyabean producers association of India ( SOPA ), said: “It did not rain in July but it is pouring in September, adversely affecting the standing soya crops. The yield is likely to go down.”
 
 GFX
 
 Kharif sowing
 
 Cultivated: 130 lakh hectares 
 
 Soybean: 50 lakh hectares
 
 Paddy: 20 lakh hectares
 
 Urad: 12 lakh hectares,
 
 Rabi sowing
 
 Could dip to 118 lakh hectares 
 
 
