BHAVNAGAR: Not only has the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) around   drastically shrunk, but a part of reserved forest too has been included in the buffer zone!

 In what experts and some forest department officials describe as illogical and absurd, the government has shown the reserved forest areas of   and   villages in the ESZ of the national park. 
 
 Experts that this is illogical and absurd. Out of 37.24 sq km ESZ cover, 6.30 sq km rea is already a reserved forest land. Reserved forests already have a special protection cover.
 
 Moreover, the ESZ for this national park was prepared after 15 years of hard work by experts and senior forest officers.
 
 “We took all expertise while preparing ESZ keeping in view the future of wildlife. But now, because of whimsical attitude of the government towards wildlife, it has been shrank to almost zero with no logical reasons’’ said an IFS officer. This is the only national park in the country exclusively established for conservation of blackbucks which is protected under schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act. 
 
 Besides blackbucks, Velavadar is the world’s largest roosting site for harriers. 
 
 “The government is not even following the guidelines of ESZ which has defeated its very purpose. The guideline says that the purpose of ESZ is to create some kind of ‘shock absorber’ for the protected areas. They would also act as a transition zone from areas of high protection to those having lesser protection. The revised ESZ of   is contradictory and driven by vested interests,’’ said  , an activist fighting to save wildlife and forests. 
 
 An official privy to the discussions on shrinking the ESZ said, “We had drafted the ESZ as the number of blackbucks are increasing and spreading outside the national park towards Nari and Bhavnagar, Moreover, most of the land is forest and government waste land which falls in our original ESZ proposal. No local people objected to the original proposal but only a clutch of politicians have objected,” said an official.
 
 
