NOIDA: A lot of   work is pending in Noida following a   ban on the operation of   in the entire NCR. Several of Noida’s important projects have been affected because of the closure of the hot-mix plants. 

 The   on Friday made a representation to Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate N P Singh seeking a resolution to the issue. 
 
 On November 24, the NGT had ordered immediate closure of 21 hot-mix and ready-mix plants in Noida following a petition by Sanjay Kumar. 
 
 Thereafter, Noida Authority officials conducted an inspection and found 27 plants to be functioning illegally in the city. An immediate sealing and dismantling of the plants was ordered by the then CEO, P K Agarwal, and a fine of Rs 5 lakh each was also imposed on those operating the 27 plants. According to the NGT, the hot-mix and ready-mix plants operating illegally and without permission have been emitting highly polluting ambient air quality in the area. 
 
 The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) had also said in the court that they have not granted consent to any of them, either to establish or to operate. “These plants have been causing air pollution and have obviously affected public health and the environment, not only of area concerned but also of the whole of NCR of Delhi,” the court headed by its chairperson, Justice Swatanter Kumar, had said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, deputy CEO Saumya Srivastava said the Authority was facing a peculiar problem. “We are unable to repair the roads in the city because of the NGT directions. Several infrastructure projects are also affected by the ban. I have asked contractors to seek permission from NGT to allow operations within legal limits,” he said.
 
 “On Friday we made a representation to N.P Singh, the GB Nagar DM, to review the matter and present it before the NGT on March 23, the next date of hearing in the case. A committee of experts can be formed to look into the issue as six hot-mix plant owners claim that they are complying with anti-pollution norms,” he said.
 
 “The UPPCB can review and submit in the court so that the ban is lifted and we can take up road repair work and construction activity,” he said, adding that the damaged roads in the city were playing havoc with commuters. 
 
 
