AURANGABAD: The city and many parts of Marathwada, which were recently hit by unseasonal rain and hailstorms, are witnessing a gradual rise in the minimum and maximum temperatures.

 The city registered a maximum temperature of 35.2 degrees celsius and minimum of 20 degrees celsius on Saturday. Among other Marathwada cities, both Parbhani and Nanded reported a maximum temperature of 35.8 degrees celsius.
 
 The   (IMD) has forecasted that maximum temperature could shoot up to 39 degrees celsius over a period of next few days. “Clear sky and sunny days are predicted ahead with minimum temperature also expected to soar up to 21 degrees celsius,” the Met department said.
 
 It should be noted that Aurangabad continued to show below normal temperature levels till early last week with both maximum and minimum temperatures showing significant drops. On Thursday, half of the Marathwada region, including Parbhani, Beed, Latur and Osmanabad districts, reported unseasonal showers coupled with hailstorms.
 
 While formation of trough and cyclonic circulation over coastal   and Tamil Nadu resulted in unseasonal showers, the Met authorities said   conditions are keeping with the normal conditions currently.
 
 “The weather system would ensure onset of summer during the second half of this month unless any unexpected turnaround occurs,” an IMD duty official said.
 
 Citizens said they clearly perceived change in weather conditions after recent unseasonal rainfall in the region. “It is getting hot and humid during night. It is unlike the last week when somewhat colder conditions were observed during the night,” said  , a resident of Shivaji Nagar.
 
 Meanwhile, the narrowing of difference between maximum and minimum temperature is expected to contain spread of viral diseases,   (IMA) authorities said.
 
 Earlier, fluctuation in temperature from hot towards cold during night and again hot during day at appreciable levels was giving rise to flu and related diseases associated with different viruses.
 
 “I had a running nose and fever for entire last week and had to visit the doctor twice. Let us hope that unhealthy weather conditions will wither away,” said Nalini Beedkar, a senior citizen.
 
 
