Nagpur: Errant motorists, it seems, care nothing for the e-challans issued to them by the city  . Though the cops have been issuing e-challans for various traffic violations, only 31% of errant motorists come forward to pay the fine.

 The flip side is that the police are yet to develop a mechanism to fish out pending e-challans on the spot and collect fine for all the e-challans issued. City traffic police department records show that nearly 69% of the vehicles owners do not take e-challan seriously. 
 
 A senior cop admitted they have found that only 31% of traffic e-challans were being compounded (where the offenders pay fine) till April 30, and in most cases, the fine is not paid.
 
 For depositing e-challans fine, the city police have tied up with India Posts and Central Bank of India. The facility to pay e-challan fine is available at 66 post offices and 31 branches of Central Bank of India.
 
 Fines should be deposited within 15 days after the receipt of the   at banks and post offices. Traffic offenders in NMC limits are taking advantage of e-challans and slipping away without paying fine. While the on-spot challans are 99% paid, the e-challans generated are only 31% paid indicating the advantage they give to escaping offenders.
 
 “We have issued about 1,56,264 traffic e-challans since it was launched in October 2016, but only 49,141 motorists (31%) have paid the fine collectively amounting to Rs2.41 crore. While 37,501   deposited Rs1,83,53,496 fine through India Post, 11,640 paid the fine (Rs58,20,027) through Central Bank of India. As many as 1,07,123 motorists, who received e-challans, ignored it,” he added.
 
 “It is very difficult to trace vehicle owners as they might have changed their address and the vehicle registration database maintained by the Road Transport Authority is not up to date,” pointed out another traffic police personnel.
 
 But the non-compliance will not deter the police department from issuing the evidence-based e-challans.
 
 Nagpur traffic police have now decided to prosecute offenders by sending legal notices and seize their vehicles in case of non-payment of fines. “We will move court to issue the summons and those who abide by it will be tried by the court that has the right to impose a greater penalty other than the stipulated amount under law. Those who still want to defy will be issued a warrant and the police can arrest them. This will act as a good deterrent,” the senior cop said.
 
 
