MANALI: With the hills witnessing the heaviest snowfall in the past five years, opening of the   for vehicular traffic is expected to take more time than usual this season.

 The   (BRO) has meanwhile planned to start the snow clearing operation on the highway from Manali from March 1.
 
 Many stretches, especially near Rohtang and Baralacha pass, received over 20ft of snow. The organization had airlifted its personnel including technicians from Manali and dropped them in Lahaul valley in three sorties. These days, the organization is working to clear snow from about 80km stretch of the highway in Lahaul valley.
 
 “Though it depends on weather conditions, we target to officially start the snow clearing operation from Manali-Leh highway till Sarchu from March 1,” said BRO commander Colonel Arvind Awasthi.
 
 Awasthi said snowfall was still continuing along the highway and many stretches were completely covered in a thick blanket of snow. “We are in regular contact with snow and avalanche study establishment (SASE) to get weather updates. If it’s snowing continuously, we won’t spend time on clearing roads unnecessarily.”
 
 Importantly, BRO has kept many stretches of the highway in populated areas open despite heavy snowfall. Awasthi said snow from Manali-Kothi, Sissu-Tandi, Tandi-Darcha, Thirot-Killar-Sansari, Thirot-Lot stretches has been removed and now work is on to connect Udaipur with Keylong.
 
 Of the 474km stretch of Manali-Leh highway, 222km stretch till Sarchu received more snow, posing a challenge to BRO to resume traffic. “Our task is to clear snow till Sarchu. We carried out five sorties by chopper and lifted our personnel at Stingri and Udaipur helipads to speed up snow clearance work in Lahaul valley. We airlifted and brought back Lahaul residents, who were in emergency, to Manali in our return flights.”
 
 Manali-Leh highway opens for traffic in May end or first week of June every year. According to sources, it would be very difficult to clear snow from Rahni Nullah, Beas Nullah, Chumbak Mor, Rakshi Dhank and Baralacha areas.
 
 BRO personnel will have to work hard to open the highway within time this season. Though many BRO personnel have lost their lives during opening of the road in the past, the organization is still working even during snowfall to keep Lahaul roads open for public, sources said.
 
