NEW DELHI: Those who don’t get their vehicles checked for   (PUC) certificates would soon get challans of Rs 1,000 at their home. The fine would be preceded by   sent by the Delhi government’s transport department to get the   on time.

 There are more than one crore vehicles registered with the transport department, which is at present creating a database of all vehicle owners along with their mobile numbers. “The creation of the database is at the final stages and as soon as we have enough data on defaulters who don’t get PUC certificates for long periods, we will send them SMS reminders, followed by a   sent to their home,” a transport department official said.
 
 “The challan for the first offence would be for Rs 1,000. If the vehicle owner still doesn’t get the vehicle checked, the fine would be Rs 2,000 for all subsequent offences,” he said.
 
 “We have 1,004 pollution checking centres in Delhi, which have been told to collect phone numbers of vehicle owners whenever they come for pollution check. Also, we are collecting details from vehicles coming for fitness certificates,” he said. “About three lakh vehicles get fitness certificates every year,” he said.
 
 The official said that with the Supreme Court recently directing PUC certificate mandatory for getting vehicle insurance, the number of people getting their vehicles checked for pollution would go up. “As the insurance data would now be linked to PUC certificate, we would also get to know how many vehicles are not checked for pollution,” he said.
 
 The official said that apart from creating database of vehicle owners, there is also now common software linking all the pollution checking centres. “All the authorised centres are now connected to our central server. Delhi is among very few states that have PUC system completely online,” he said.
 
 The official said that the number of vehicles getting regular PUC certificates is much less than the number of vehicles registered in the city. “Also, we have found out that a large number of phone numbers that we have are fake and don’t exist,” he said.
 
 It is mandatory for every vehicle owner to carry a valid PUC certificate and maintain the vehicles in such a condition and shall be so driven so as to comply with the prescribed emission norms. After the expiry of period of one year from the date of first registration, every motor vehicle is required to carry a valid PUC certificate. For vehicles following Bharat Stage (BS) IV emission norms, annual PUC certificates are required while for other vehicles, it is mandatory to get PUC certificates every three months.
 
 
