Thane: Increased life expectancy and the growing population of elderly citizens with near-zero access to support or welfare programmes from the government and a certain neglect by the society at large, appeared to be the biggest concerns for the community and authorities on the occasion of the   on Tuesday.

 A demography study by the UN department of economic and social affairs in 2015 has revealed that the population of   in India, which was 8.9 per cent of the world elderly population, is estimated to increase to 12.5 per cent by 2030 and rise to 19.4 per cent by 2050.
 
 Keeping this in mind, researchers working in the field of elderly care believe that the government needs to give a thought to the requirements of this fast growing ageing community and initiate measures to integrate them with the present.
 
 Nasreen Rustomfram, chairperson at the Centre for Lifelong Learning at the   (TISS), said, “Firstly, we need to clear the mind-set that the aged are all sick and ailing. They are as interactive members of the society as anyone of us and not at all a burden on the society. However, the pressures of urban life and inability of their close family to devote quality time has rendered them lonely. The need of the hour is to initiate welfare programmes and open activity centres which would ensure a healthy and active life for our elders whose population will soar in coming years.”
 
 She said the elderly are being incorrectly perceived as passive beneficiaries when the fact is they have decades of experience in their professional domain and can guide the youth. We need to create platform for these senior citizens to share their knowledge, be it in schools and colleges or even companies and societies,” she added.
 
 Sachin Salunkhe, the founder of the gender sensitive initiative, Kartavya ...Culture of Care, initiated in Thane along with the city police last year said, “Our campaign aims to sensitise the community about the challenges of the ageing seniors, to create an advocacy platform and to engage them in social activity. The elders should live a healthy and active life and with the same dignity and respect they have taught us.” 
 
 He added, “We will shortly launch a social mobilization movement where the youths will pledge to protect and care for the elderly community.” 
 
 We need to clear the mindset that the aged are sick and ailing. They are as interactive as anyone of us and not a burden on the society. The pressures of urban life and inability of their close family to devote time has rendered them lonely.
 
