Aurangabad: The   party on Thursday launched a state-wide campaign, demanding complete loan waiver to all farmers from Maharashtra before July 30.

 The campaign, titled Mazi Karzmafi Zali Nahi (I haven’t received loan waiver), was launched by Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) chief Ashok Chavan from Buldhana — around 160 kilometer from Aurangabad.
 
 Launching a blistering attack on the state government, Chavan said the anti-farmer face of ruling parties has been exposed. “It is unjust to discriminate among farmers reeling under acute financial crisis and therefore loan waiver must be offered in a blanket manner. We will be collecting pleas in writing of all deserving farmers who have been left in lurch by the government by denying loan-waiver. These applications will be carried to Mumbai in bullock carts and submitted before the government,” he said.
 
 Chavan reiterated that the facts and figures projected by the government while waiving off loan were misleading in nature. “The government has been inflating the number of beneficiaries and the loan amount waived. While ruling parties claim that 89 lakh farmers will get benefit from the loan waiver amounting to Rs 34,000 crore, in actual only 15 lakh farmers are going to be benefitted,” the former chief minister said.
 
 The senior Congress leader also attacked Shiv Sena for its dual stand on the issue of loan waiver. “Sena has a dual stand on the important issue of loan waiver for farmers. The peasant community in Maharashtra has been witnessing how they are being betrayed,” he said.
 
 The 10-day long campaign would be led by Congress leaders in their respective home districts and nearby areas.
 
 The loan waiver scheme for farmers, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Krushi Sanman Yojana, has been described by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis as the biggest ever loan ever in the state. He had said that around 90 per cent of the farmers would be benefitted from the move.
 
 Meanwhile, leader of Opposition in the State Assembly Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil has demanded free supply of seeds and fertilizers and finances to help farmers from 12 districts to undertake re-sowing in the wake of lull in monsoon activity. 
 
 
