GURUGRAM: The   in the   is likely to remain for a bit longer, as the   of over 7,000 cops have been scrapped, pertaining to the changes carried out in the   on April 18, 2017. 

 Now, it will take two years at least — to complete the hiring process and the police training — till new recruits join the force.
 
 Haryana Police has a total sanctioned strength of 61,000 personnel, out of which only 42,300 positions have been filled. In  , there are 4,800 sanctioned posts in the police department, out of which only 3,900 posts have been filled, leaving 900 vacancies. In February 2017, Haryana police had sent a requisition for around 7,000 cops to Haryana Staff Selection Commission. These included general duty cops, commandos, Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB), telecoms, etc. Out of these, 5,000 cops were to be hired for general duties and remaining 1,500 for commandos, IRBs, etc. 
 
 However, this drive has been scrapped because the police department made changes to the recruitment criteria. 
 
 Under the new norms, the minimum height of a candidate has been reduced by two centimetres for general category, and by one centimetre for reserved categories. Also, now there will be direct recruitments for only two ranks — constables and sub-inspectors. All vacancies for the constables and 50% of the vacancies at sub-inspector level will be filled by direct recruitment. The direct recruitment at head constables, assistant sub-inspector and inspector levels have been scrapped. Now, these positions will be filled by the promoted staff.
 
 Now, the state police will send a revised requisition, including only the constables and sub-inspectors for the general police duties. Sources told TOI that the vacancies will be announced for 4,500 males and 500 females for constable posts, 437 sub-inspectors, including 57 females, and around 1,000 commandos, IRBs, etc. 
 
 “We are waiting for approval from the cabinet. Shortly after that a notification will be issued. This is expected to be done by next month, after which we will send a revised requisition,” said Y Puran Kumar, DIG, Administration, Haryana Police. 
 
 The recruitment process has started for this, and the interviews have been conducted, but even these cops are yet to complete their training before joining the force. 
 
 
