Places like Talakona forest, Vagamon, Kanchanaburi, Krabi, and the forests of   have become hot favourites for our filmmakers when it comes to locations, these days. It has become a trend for our filmmakers to shoot in the wild, and find it a challenging experience of a lifetime. While the team of Kadamban and Vanamagan have completed their shoots in the unspoilt forests of Thailand and Vietnam, the team of the upcoming, yet-to-be-titled film starring  , which is to be directed by Arumugakumar, will be heading to the forests of Odisha. Directors say that shooting in the forests requires tremendous planning and manpower. We speak to a few of them, along with their production teams, on how challenging these shoots are. These directors take up these challenges to get that one outstanding shot that will thrill the audience.

 
 “We spent a lot of time just reaching the shooting spot. While shooting in Vietnam, we had to travel for six hours, plus an hour on foot everyday to reach the location we had selected. We had to take a boat to go to our exact destination. With no means of transport, we had to lift all the equipment, and walk in the wild. It requires a tremendous team effort to shoot in the forest,” says director Vijay, who has completed his schedule in forests of Vietnam and Thailand for his film, Vanamagan starring  . “You have to understand that nothing will go as planned. The team and the producer have to be patient during forest-shooting schedules, says Prabu Solomon, who had shot both, Myna and Kumki in the jungle. He continues, “If we have to can a shot in the city, we may get a 50-member team, whereas to shoot in a jungle, we may take only 15 members because in certain areas, there is a limitation as to the number of people allowed. So, each one of us has to multi-task, and take on jobs apart from our roles. Also, we won’t be able to carry lot of shooting equipment. In fact, there are some shots which we shot using only a GoPro camera. The weather is also an issue, and due to inclement weather conditions shooting had to be cancelled many a time.” Ragava, who is currently directing Arya’s Kadamban, says, “While were shooting in a forest area in Kodaikanal, the whole team, including  , stayed in huts in a small village for a week to complete the shoot as travelling from hotel rooms to the location consumed a lot of time. The villagers provided us with food and basic amenities. Then, there will be certain places where we could only reach on foot. We spent many days just trekking the hills to reach the location. But at the end of the day, the forest scenes are a stunning visual treat for the audience and so, we don’t mind the hardships.”
 
 
 “The forest officials usually send a local, a ‘watcher’, to keep an eye on what we are doing. If we plucked even a leaf during the shoot, the watcher would stall the shoot. The watcher travelled with us throughout the shoot, says Ragava. There are strict rules and regulations for shooting in certain places. We didn’t get permission to shoot after 4pm in a place called Manjolai. Also, once we reached near   falls, we realised some other crew members were also shooting there. They just broke a branch of a tree and the forest officials stalled the shoot for three days. We cannot disturb nature at any cost. We have to give a list of things that we have to get cleared from the forest officials before we start shooting. Strictly only those things will be allowed,” says director Jananathan, who directed Peranmai in the forests of Kerala and Karnataka. Prabhu says, “You will not get permission to shoot in forests that conserve tigers. Also to safeguard certain rare flora and fauna, permission to shoot in certain areas is denied. One can easily spot no-honk areas and sign boards that carries information on the exact decibel we should speak in. Being a nature lover I ensure that the nature is not disturbed during the shoot.”
 
 
 “While shooting in Talakona, we saw a leopard very closeby. It was actually a thrilling experience. The localists would travel along with us and they would help us shoot in the locations, says Vijay. Director Jananathan says, “There will be leeches, and during the shoot, you really cannot get away with it. There are times we have returned to our rooms with bleeding legs due to leech bites. Nothing can be done to prevent it. We used to apply salt on our skin, so that the leeches won’t bite. But once a forest guide told us that the elephants like the smell of the salt and if you apply salt on your skin, elephants may come looking for you because of the smell. It is better to get bitten by leeches than to face an elephant.” Adding to this is Ragava, “We shot amidst elephants in Thailand and we have seen innumerable bisons and elephants during the shoot in Talakona and Vagamon forests. The animals will not hurt us unless we hurt them.” 
 
 
 Prabu Solomon finds shooting in the forest a stress-free one. He says, “Shooting in the jungle is more of a relaxing and rejuvenating experience for me, and not a challenging one. When you connect yourself with nature, your mind will be as fresh as a flower and creativity will be at its best. We do not get signal to take calls inside the forests as there will be no towers. When I shot for 40 days for my film Myna in the forest, I didn’t use mobile phone during those one-and-half months. Only when you don’t use it you will know how stress-free you feel. I thoroughly enjoyed working without a phone and all of us were able give our work full attention.”
 
 
 Production manager Saleem, who has co-ordinated shoots in various jungles, explains, “Getting permission for these shoots is actually a herculean task. We have to apply several months in advance as the approval involves strict evaluation. There will be restrictions like not to cut plants, no smoking, list of crew members and shooting equipment that we will be taken for the shoot. A special team from the production unit will assist the crew to ensure that the place is clean after the shoot. So, right after the shoot, my team and I clean the area, otherwise the permission will be denied for further shoot.”
 
 
 Arumugakumar says that immense planning has to be done when you want to shoot in a forest. “We are currently shooting in the city. As Vijay Sethupathi is playing a tribal leader, we will again be heading to the forests in Odisha to shoot a major portion. We started the pre-production work for that schedule a couple of months ago, before we started the shoot in the city. We are planning to rehearse the scenes in advance to wrap up the jungle schedule as soon as possible. In the city we get all luxuries during the shoot, but we cannot expect the same during a schedule in a forest,” he says.
 
 
