RANCHI:   were handed a thumping 7-0 defeat by defending champions   at Birsa Munda Astroturf Hockey Stadium here on Wednesday.

 Rays failed to match the intensity of their opponents and withered away by the end of third quarter. They played a better game compared to the match against Waveriders but failed to take their chances that came their way. On the other hand, Warriors had a brilliant comeback as SV Sunil scored a brace and   and   scored one goal each.
 
 Having won only one of their four matches, Rays were under pressure to put up a good show in front of their home team but sadly that was not to be. Punjab Warriors opened scoring in the ninth minute of the second quarter after Van der Werden converted their second penalty corner of the match. He had missed the target by a huge margin during the first PC but this time he made no mistake of making it 1-0 for the visitors. The Dutchman slammed the ball into the top-right corner giving no chance to the goalkeeper to even react.
 
 Sunil then made it 3-0 for the visitors when he scored a field goal two minutes later. After a fumble by Rays in their own half, Whetton played the ball to Sunil who made a wonderful run and flicked it into the net past in the incoming goalkeeper.
 
 Things went from bad to worse for the home team as Sunil found the target again four minutes into the third quarter. With his back to the goal he just flicked  's slap shot past Lovell into the net to make it 5-0 for Warriors.
 
 With two minutes remaining in the third quarter, Whetton then made it 7-0 when he scored their third field goal of the match. Satbir Singh played the ball from the right flank and Whetton, standing at the centre of the D, made no mistake of putting it into the net. It was only in the last quarter that Rays found their footing in the match but by then it was too late to make a comeback. They kept the attack coming and won as many as seven penalty corners.
 
 But instead of converting them, they tried scoring a field goal. 
 
 
