JAIPUR: Two murders discovered in 24 hours have come as a shock for the  , with murders alone allegedly touching the double digit mark in about a month.

 While a guard working at a private tent house was killed in Kardhani locality, a woman was found strangulated by her husband at Sodala in the city on Thursday. However, the police managed to arrest an 18-year-old youth in connection with the   of the guard who had allegedly attempted to sodomize the accused.
 
 The body of the guard was recovered from   in Kardhani in the morning. “The deceased, identified as Kana Ram (35), had received severe head injuries and it appears that he was hit with iron pipes by the accused. While the accused has alleged that an attempt to sodomize him had resulted in hitting the guard, some old rivalry or dispute could also be the reason behind the murder. We can’t rule out the possibility of looting in this case as everything in the tent house was found scattered,” a senior police officer said.
 
 Ashok Gupta, superintendent of police (west), said, “We have arrested an accused, identified as Nawal alias Pappu (18). He had drunk and dined with the guard on Wednesday night. The deceased, Kana Ram, had attempted to sodomize him, which was resisted by the accused who in turn hit Ram with an iron pipe. He fled the scene, leaving the guard in a pool of blood.”
 
 In another incident, a 30-year-old woman was found murdered at Brij colony under Sodala police station area in the city in the morning. “Some neighbours in the locality complained of foul smell coming from a house. Our team reached the spot and found the body of a woman when we entered the house. Her face was seen smashed. She has been identified as Sharavani Berman. There were also marks of strangulation on her neck,” said a senior police officer with the Sodala police.
 
 Police suspect that she was killed by her husband who has gone missing. “We attempted to contact him but his phone was untraceable. His sudden absence from the house has raised our suspicion. The neighbours claimed that he was an alcoholic and had fights with his wife on a daily basis. He has been missing for the past two days,” the officer added.
 
 A case has been registered against the accused, identified as Sajal Berman, and a team constituted to nab him. It may be recalled that at least 10 murders have taken place in the city since February.
 
 
