(By - GURUCHARAN GOLLERKERI)

 Bengaluru had great expectations from the 2017-18 budget and some of them have been met. The budget seeks to address some of the infrastructure deficits faced by the city , with an emphasis on public transport, decongestion of traffic and waste management. The global Mercer rankings released on Tuesday placed Bengaluru at the 177th spot when it comes to the quality of living, the lowest in the country . Abysmal traffic conditions, inadequate drinking water supply, poor public transport and irregular power supply are to blame.
 
 In light of the Mercer report, it's a positive development that the budget focuses on improving public trans port and reducing traffic chaos. Public transport has grabbed a significant share of the budgetary allocation pie -nearly Rs 4,200 crore has been earmarked for Namma Metro Phase 2 and the budget proposes the addition of 3,000 buses to the BMTC fleet.
 
 The chief minister also indicated that Bengaluru will be termed the capital of electric vehicles in India, with the introduction of 150 electric buses. More than Rs 1,000 crore has been allocated for the sole purpose of decreasi n g t r a f f i c b o t t l e n e ck s through improvements of roads, and construction of arterial roads and elevated railway crossings. Silk Board and KR Puram junctions are also set to be upgraded.
 
 The allocation of Rs 345 crore to develop the suburban rail network in conjunction with Indian Railways through a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) can be seen as the victory of citizens, who began an awareness campaign, Chuku Buku Railu Beku, to reduce travel time within the city . The budget also incorporates the immediate need to improve the condition of water bodies, with an allocation of Rs 43 crore for rejuvenation of 10 lakes, especially Belandur and Varthur lakes.This is in addition to the Rs 300 crore earmarked for wa ter harvesting.
 
 Bengaluru is the highest contributor to Karnataka's gross do mestic product (GDP), contributing nearly 33% (2013-14). While it can be argued that much more needs to be done for the Startup City , the budgetary allocation of Rs 7,300 crore bodes well for its future. The chief minister should be complimented for his city-centric focus.
 
 (The author is director, Public Affairs Centre)
 
