SURAT: As   in the   are rushing to   (RTO) to get their badges following the police commissioner’s order, there is a windfall for the touts. 

 City police commissioner   had issued a circular making it mandatory for the auto drivers to wear badges, or else face seizure of the vehicles and fine by the traffic police from April 5. 
 
 The traffic cops have started to seize auto-rickshaws plying without badges. Hundreds of auto-rickshaws have been seized in the last two days and many drivers have been fined. 
 
 Out of around 98,000 auto-rickshaws registered with the RTO, over 80 per cent of the drivers do not have badges. 
 
 Wearing of the badge has been made compulsory for the drivers. Only people who have driving licence are eligible to get the badge. One needs to have passed class IX to get the driving licence. Majority of auto-rickshaw drivers don't have the required qualification. 
 
 In order to beat the heavy rush, auto drivers are being lured by touts. Over 300 auto drivers are thronging RTO to get their badges issued on a daily basis, while the transport office has the facility to provide only 25 badges per day due to shortage of staff and equipment. 
 
 “I was approached by a tout at the transport office and he asked me to pay him Rs10,000 for getting the badge. I stood in the queue for three hours and was given the appointment for the badge after two months. There is no other way, but to pay the touts whatever they ask for to get the badge. Stopping the auto-rickshaw means keeping my family members without food,” said Jakir Saiyed, an auto driver from   
 
 Last week, the auto-rickshaw drivers led by Surat Auto-rickshaw Federation (SAF) organized a rally and submitted a memorandum to district collector demanding relaxation in the rules framed by the RTO. 
 
 SAF secretary Irfan Kapadia told TOI, “It is question of 5 lakh family members of auto drivers who are not able to drive due to police action. The auto drivers are flocking to the RTO for badges, but they are given appointment after two months. The police should give some relaxation to auto drivers, otherwise their family members will suffer. The touts are luring the auto drivers for a badge for Rs10,000.”
 
 An officer of RTO said, “We are yet to receive any complaints about the touts. But we will investigate.”
 
 
