Surat: Acting on ‘credible intelligenge’, the   (I-T) department has been successful in unearthing over Rs 170 crore worth of black money, converted into gold at inflated prices post-demonitization, during raids at two city-based jewellers on Thursday. 

 Jewellers are under the scanner of I-T department as ‘credible intelligence’ inputs point out that there has been a sudden surge in transactions that show black money is being converted into gold at inflated prices. 
 
 Earlier, the I-T department had sought details of transactions, invoice generated, statement of gold stocks, etc., from the city-based jewellers starting from November 8 to November 13. 
 
 On specific information received by the I-T sleuths, two city-based jewellery showrooms located at posh   and  , respectively, were raided by the department two days ago. 
 
 In the first jewellery shop case, the I-T department found that the shop owner had deposited Rs 12 crore in his official account in next few days after demonitization. The I-T sleuths nabbed two property dealers from Varachha, who had purchased gold worth Rs 6.5 crore from the jeweller after demonitization. The department is looking out for other two individuals who had purchased Rs 4 crore worth of gold from the jeweller. 
 
 Sources said that the department has laid their hands on the jewellery showroom owner’s two bank accounts. In the first account, which was officially linked to his jewellery showroom had a balance deposit of Rs 50 crore, while the second unofficial account had deposit of Rs 110 crore. 
 
 Sources said that the jewellery showroom owner was maintaining two accounts to evade tax. However, the department has started investigation to find out the beneficiaries of the gold after demonitization, source of the gold supply, etc. The jeweller has not even maintained PAN card norm for selling jewellery and gold above Rs 2 lakh.
 
 The other jeweller based in Varachha had deposited Rs 10 crore in his bank account after demonitization. The I-T department has sought details of his bank accounts in the cooperative banks in Varachha. 
 
 Sources said that the department also raided a Jaipur-based coaching institute having its branches in Vadodara and Surat following information regarding huge amount of tax evasion. The searches are still going on at the premises in Pal area of the city.
 
