CHANDIGARH: Acting strict against schools indulging in   by tying-up with shops for  , uniform and stationery items, UT education department on Tuesday has written to all schools warning them to not ‘force’ parents or else strict action will be taken against them.

 The move has come after department received information about certain schools continuing the practice despite instructions in the past from education department, officials said. They have also introduced a platform – an email account – on which parents will be able to complain if they find any school having a tie-up with particular shops.
 
 The letter subjected as “Purchase of text books/copies, stationery items, uniform by the students of schools” was sent to district education officer (DEO) from the director school education ( ) on Tuesday who would further issue it to all schools – government, government-aided and unaided private schools.
 
 The letter states it has come to the notice of the undersigned (director school education) that some schools direct parents to purchase items from a particular shop. “Although DEO office has issued instructions in this regard from time to time but some schools are not complying with the directions. Chandigarh administration has taken serious note of this practice.”
 
 It further read, “It shall be made clear to all schools that in future, no school shall indulge in such practice and in case any complaint in this regard is brought to the notice of the department, strict action as per rules, will be taken against defaulter school.” It said, “It should be ensured that parents and students are free to purchase the above said items from any shop of their choice.” A senior official from the department said, “We have received direction from the adviser to send these instructions to schools.”
 
 Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar confirmed that a letter, containing above instructions has been issued. “There were some complaints that came to our notice. We have made an email account on which parent’s can register complaint. They will also be free to visit DEO office and give the complaint in person,” he said.
 
 This has been a common issue among parents. Recently, a parent association belonging to a school in Sector 38 also highlighted the practice. It said, “The uniforms are often of sub-standard quality and the prescribed vendors charge exorbitant prices given the monopoly they enjoy.” The association had extended support to assist the school in finding vendors who can provide high quality uniforms and stationery items at reasonable rates. 
 
 Nitin Goyal, president of Chandigarh parents association, said, “There should be a panel of school vendors and the parents should be allowed to select the vendor themselves. Better still, the school should only recommend the cloth type or shade and the parents should be allowed to get the uniform stitched themselves.” He added, “In the absence of any regulation, the unholy nexus of most private schools having tie-ups with bookshops is continuing and the parents are being fleeced. These schools argue that private publishers’ books are better in quality while NCERT books have errors. But then, why don’t they prescribe a similar set of private publishers’ books across all city schools which they consider to be the best? They cleverly prescribe exclusive books to create monopoly and the commission business has thus been thriving.”
 
 
