NEW DELHI: The “concrete evidence” needed to proceed against Lashkar chief Hafiz   is available in Pakistan and it needs to display the political will to act against the 26/11 terror mastermind, India said on Thursday. 

 While welcoming recent actions taken by Pakistan on “humanitarian grounds” such as the release of an Indian soldier who crossed the Line of Control, India reminded Islamabad that it needed to act credibly against Saeed for his role in the Mumbai attacks. The government said the conspiracy in the Mumbai terror attack case was hatched in Pakistan and the evidence to implicate Saeed was available there. 
 
 “In fact,   has himself confessed to masterminding multiple acts of terror directed at India. So, the so-called concrete evidence that the Pakistani establishment is looking for is already available in Pakistan. All they need is to find the requisite political will,” MEA spokesperson   said. 
 
 The statement comes as India seeks to keep up the pressure on Pakistan after it announced Saeed’s detention some days ago. The Indian establishment views the development with caution as Saeed has been “detained” before too but without suffering any longterm disadvantage to his status as a trusted ally of the Pakistan army and the ISI. 
 
 Pakistan’s move is seen in some quarters as a result of US pressure, accentuated by Donald Trump becoming president but Indian sources argue that the sustained message that ties will hinge on outcomes on terror is also a factor. The surgical strike on terror launchpads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and heavy retaliatory fire along the LoC have enforced the Modi government’s message. 
 
 Swarup’s remark was in response to a statement by the Pakistani interior ministry that India needed to come up with evidence against Saeed which was concrete and sustainable in a court of law. This is a position that Pakistan has consistently adopted — disingenuously as per Indian officials, as the argument provides an excuse for inaction. 
 
 Time and again, Pakistan has pleaded that the courts have not found anything against Saeed or any other 26/11 plotters even as it has been apparent that the trial is plagued by frequent change of judges and prosecutors, some even receiving threats.
 
