Nagpur: Timely surgical intervention by Rotarian doctors from the city saved the life of 49-year-old Mansaram Shalikram Bhilavekar who was suffering from perforation peritonitis (holes in the intestine) at Utavali village in Dharni taluka in Melghat.  The patient was in critical condition when he reached the Mahan Trust’s hospital at around 2pm on last Saturday. The doctors, who had left for Utavali for a surgical camp the same day, attended to him as soon as they reached there. The doctors also performed 23 other operations, including two congenital (by birth) hernias in children. In January this year, Rotary Club of Nagpur had donated Rs29 lakh to Mahan’s Mahatma Gandhi Tribal Hospital and Sant Vinoba Bhave Children Hospital, Karmagram, run by Dr Ashish and Dr Kavita Satav. Anu Aga, ex-chairperson of Thermax Ltd, had also contributed Rs50 lakh for the civil construction of the OT and the ward. Dr Ashish told TOI that Rotary would conduct monthly camps at Utavali for the tribals. “We now have all the infrastructure like any city for operating patients,” he said. Dr Surjit Hazra, general surgeon from Rotary who led the surgeons’ team comprising Dr Raju Wilkinson, Dr Atul Philipos and Dr Mahindra Chauhan from the NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences, said, “We were leaving from Nagpur when we got a call from Dr Satav about the emergency of perforated intestine. We rushed to Dharni but it was about 11pm before we could take on the patient and finished operating on him at 1.30am. Though the disease is not very uncommon this was an emergency situation,” he said. Dr Jerristin Watchmaker, Dr Aarti Anand, Dr Amit Wankhede, Dr Surjit Pingle and Dr Carl Mehta were also involved in the surgeries. The other surgeries included adult hernia, hydrocele, and biopsy of lip cancer, skin tumour lumps and a thyroid surgery. Dr Anand says that the Rotary would be holding one dedicated speciality camps like hysterectomy, plastic surgery etc each month at Utavali to help Dr Satav reduce the disease burden of Melghat and give some relief to the tribals who cannot come to cities. So far, 77 operations have been performed in six camps in six months. This included a camp by the Rotary Club of Midtown Amravati.