AURANGABAD: Several government and semi-government officials here said they have become familiar with some persons, who habitually file   applications. They claimed that a closer scrutiny of such applications would reveal that the whole purpose of filing the Right To Information pleas contravenes the purpose of the transparency Act. 

 “The information sought by such habitual applicants cannot be termed as public interest as the details are sought with the sole intention of either harassing us or settling scores with some third-party,” said a senior government official, acting as public information officer ( ), requesting anonymity.
 
 A senior official from the education department, who is also an appellate authority (AA), alleged that RTI has been misused as a tool for troubling others. 
 
 “Disgruntled employees either from within the organisation or outside are found to be at the forefront of filing frivolous RTI queries. The information asked often pertains to a long time span and voluminous details. We have to keep our routine work aside to deal with such application,” he said.
 
 A lady officer said the deadline of furnishing information under RTI within 30 days and 45 days for PIO and AAs makes things more complicated. Such applications add burden to already short-staffed offices, she said, demanding concrete solution get rid of such ill-motivated queries.
 
 An education department official also highlighted that Aurangabad bench of   recently rapped one frivolous applicant by observing that such queries also reduce efficiency of public institutions. 
 
 Listing out some of the solutions, senior officials said a fine could be slapped against applicants making mockery of RTI Act. “Just like a fine is imposed on PIO or AA for not complying with the Act, penalty should be considered for frivolous applications. An option of increasing fees towards RTI for frequent mischievous users can be also considered by keeping proper record of such applicants and their outcome,” he said. 
 
 State Information Commissioner   and senior officials from the general administration department could not be reached for their comments.
 
 RTI activist   said the proposal to impose fine on frivolous applicants could backfire. “While a section of PIOs and AAs have been delivering their duties diligently, others are working in a fashion that could dampen the spirit of RTI Act. Such inefficient PIOs and AAs could in turn misuse the provision of fine to harm interest of genuine applicants,” he said.
 
 RTI experts said RTI rules can be evolved further by taking into account experiences of PIOs and AAs so that frivolous applications can be discarded and genuine ones are properly entertained. 
 
