NEW DELHI: Finding it hard to believe that an aged woman and a boy would lie about being subjected to assault under somebody’s influence, a   has convicted a man of   not amounting to murder and sentenced him to five years’ imprisonment.

 “The fact that the accused caused grievous injuries to an old lady and simple injury to a 14-year-old boy shows the perverted mindset of convict,” said Additional Sessions Judge Sandeep Yadav.
 
 Yashwant Mishra, a salesman, had been found guilty under Section 308 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) for allegedly assaulting Raj Perumal, a security guard, his aged mother-in-law and his 14-year-old son with an iron rod in 2010.
 
 “It is hard to believe that a 14-year-old minor boy and an aged lady will lie on being instigated by an outsider,” the court said, negating the defense’s arguments that Perumal’s employer had tried to influence the injured to falsely implicate Mishra. “Even otherwise, no person of ordinary prudence after receiving grievous injuries on vital parts of the body will falsely implicate a wrong person on the instruction of his employer, knowing fully well that by doing so he will be shielding real culprit,” the court observed.
 
 Though the court pointed out that Mishra deserved maximum punishment for the offence, it, however, considered that he did not have a previous criminal record. Therefore, the court said that five years’ simple imprisonment would meet the ends of justice.
 
 Mishra was sentenced to simple imprisonment for five years and slapped with a fine of Rs 50,000. The court also ruled that in default of payment of fine, Mishra would further undergo simple imprisonment for six months.
 
 “It is not in dispute that all the injured suffered badly because of the crime committed in this case not only physically but financially also. As has been mentioned above, one of the injured was a young boy and another injured was an old aged lady while the third injured was the only earning member of his family.,” the court added.
 
 
