HYDERABAD: The 78th  , which is going to be held in Hyderabad in October, is the significant milestone, which the youngest State of India, Telangana will be the proud host here in the city at HICC from 5th to 9th October for five days. The Congress will be formally kicked off on 6th October. 

 B Venkatesham, Principal Secretary Tourism Government of Telangana and Vijay Mohan Raj, President, Skal Intl Hyderabad met Katherine Hadda, Consul General, Consulate General of United States of America, Hyderabad at her office and requested the active participation of the USA Government at the Congress.
 
  will take place on 7th, and the Travel Forum Panel Discussion on 8th October. A traditional President’s Gala Dinner is scheduled on the evening of the 8th October. 
 
 Two Telugu states besides many state government’s tourism departments, Union Tourism Ministry, Tour and Travel Operators, Prestigious Properties will showcase their offerings in the exhibition.
 
 1500 who’s’-who of Tourism world from 85 countries such as Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bermuda, Canada, South Africa, Switzerland, Spain, Fiji, Macau, Malaysia, USA, Venezuela, Turkey, Uganda, China, Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Brazil, Chile and a host of others are expected to participate in the meet.
 
 Founded in 1934, this 83 years old body is a professional organization of tourism leaders around the world. It is the world’s largest Travel Organisation of Travel and Tourism Professionals. It is the only international group uniting all sectors of the travel and tourism. It has 20,000 members in 450 cities/clubs throughout 85 nations.
 
 These Countries include: Andorra, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Belgium, Bermuda, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, Spain, Fiji, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Cyprus, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Portugal, Red Sea Bay, Romania, South Africa, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, UK, USA, Vanuatu, Zimbabwe, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Norway, Sweden, Columbia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Panama, Venezuela, Bahrain, Bangladesh, China, Chinese Taipei, Guam, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Macau, Malaysia, Mauritius, Myanmar, Nepal, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile.
 
