PATNA: The   at Harna under Andhrathari block in   district reflects the sorry state of school education in   where the government claims it spends almost 25% of its budget on this sector alone. Over 450 students of this school are forced to take their midday   at the nearby graveyard for lack of space on its campus. The school has so little space that the children usually attend their classes under the trees on the main road or in the open veranda of the nearby mosque. The two rooms in the school building are reserved for storing food materials and office purposes.

 “Due to lack of facilities, the students are forced to study under tree; sometimes on the street or the mosque’s veranda. We complained to the authorities about this many times, but no action was taken. Now, we have stopped bothering anyone in the government,” school principal Jagarnath Paswan said. The school has eight teachers and 457 students in Class I to VIII.
 
 “We don’t have proper infrastructure and basic facilities like benches and blackboard. Students are forced to sit on the floor. We have only two rooms — one for office and another for storage of foodgrains and other materials. If we leave the food outside, there are chances that people will steal it,” said Paswan. The school is running in this vicinity for two decades.
 
 When contacted, Madhubani district education officer   told this newspaper over phone that the officials visited the school on Monday. “Harna panchayat is a Muslim-dominated area and most of the plots of land here are vacant and used for burial. It is the government land, but local people don’t allow the construction of a school building,” said Mishra, who was posted as DEO in the district only recently.
 
 “I spoke to the residents and urged them to allow the construction of school building. Some even agreed to it, but others revolted. But I’m hopeful of resolving the issue within a few days. We also assured the school headmaster about this,” Mishra said and added: “The funds for the school infrastructure will be released within a month.” 
 
 
