HYDERABAD: Hyderabadis are aware of the ‘Purdah Gate’ of King Kothi Palace, the official residence of Nizam VII, Mir Osman Ali Khan. But, not many know that  , which he founded, had conducted classes in the first few decades of its launch, literally behind the veil. 

 Classes were held separately for boys and girls. In case a class had to be held in a common hall during the guest lectures of eminent personalities or visiting faculty, a ‘purdah’ or curtain was hung between boys and girls in  .
 
 Like many educational institutions in Hyderabad of those days, Osmania University too had observed a ‘purdah’ system. This continued for a few decades. 
 
 Classes for girl students were held separately by women faculty. If a qualified woman teacher was not available for a particular subject, classes were conducted by male lecturers but under strict ‘vigilance’ of ‘Ayahs’ (female attendants) accompanying the girl students.
 
 A study of news archives containing memories recollected by Osmania University alumni reveals that there was a strong segregation of boys and girls in educational institutions in the city and elsewhere in the princely state of Hyderabad. 
 
 Even the educational institutions affiliated to the university had all-women teaching and non-teaching staff. Cars, horse-drawn buggies and cycle rickshaws carrying girl students had a curtain hung to them. There were also reports of windowless buses to hide girl students and women.
 
 City historian Dr Mohammad Safiullah, whose grandmother graduated from Osmania University in 1923, while sharing her campus memories said that there were separate entrance and exit for boys and girls. 
 
 “There were only a few girl students in educational institutions. It was a Herculean task for girls to convince their parents and grandparents to send them to college. Most of the girls were accompanied by domestic helps and their duty was to keep a close watch on the male faculty and boys to ensure that nothing goes wrong on the non-academic front,” he said.
 
 Long before the birth of Osmania University, exclusive ‘Purdah schools’ were set up in the form of Nampally Girls’ School in 1890 and Mahbubia Girls’ School in 1907 (earlier  ). 
 
 Interestingly, the medium of instruction was English and not Urdu. The Purdah restriction notwithstanding, many women made a mark on the educational front of Hyderabad even before Osmania University came into being. 
 
 In fact, many do not know that Lady   played as key a role as her husband Sir Akbar Hydari in the birth of Osmania University, a trendsetter in the academic history of the Indian subcontinent.
 
 
