THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a move that could relieve   junction of its bottleneck, tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran has said that the local   in the junction along with hundreds of roadside shops will be relocated to a new  . 

 “The existing shopping complex building, which belongs to the corporation, will be demolished and the market will be relocated to this space,” the minister said at the monthly meeting of the residents of Sreekaryam that was held on Thursday.
 
 The minister also promised rehabilitation for the roadside vendors and shopkeepers who will have to risk their shops and means of livelihood with the coming of the light metro. “Around 90-100 shops will be demolished when the light metro project is completed. These shops will be moved to the new shopping complex and the existing local market will be moved to the ground floor of the building,” he added.
 
 In a proposal handed over jointly by the shopkeepers and the residents to the minister, they had put forward a request to provide them a monthly pension until the construction of the new shopping mall is completed. 
 
 “A market with all modern amenities and public convenience at the northern corner of the government land at Sreekaryam and bus bay will be a permanent solution for the issues of traffic block. Even while the light metro is a good venture eliminating the endless crisis of traffic blocks in the junction, the shopkeepers will have no means of income until the light metro is completed. This is a serious issue and we have already given a proposal for a temporary pension scheme to the minister and the concerned authorities as the shopkeepers received notice from government to vacate the space as soon as possible,” said Kesavan Kutty, secretary of CORAS (Coordination of Residents Association of Sreekaryam).
 
 Other requests like civil station and a new building for the police station have also been presented to the state government. The members belonging to the various residents association had pointed out that police station at Sreekaryam runs on a rented building and the building is on the verge of destruction.
 
 “A combined civil station which has a police station, fire station and other offices is very essential. Also, with the new civil station, the local residents will be able to get various government certificates renewed and delivered much easier,” Velayudhan Nair, president of PKRA residents association.
 
 
