NEW DELHI: Fares remained sky high on Sunday as a section of   drivers working for taxi aggregating services like Ola and Uber continued with the   called on Friday. 

 “Drivers who own the vehicles have continued with the strike while those driving on rent for the companies have gone back to work,” said Kamaljeet Singh, president of Sarvodaya Driver Association of Delhi.
 
  The association has called the strike by drivers against what they claim are unfair practices by the app-based taxi aggregators. For riders, it was another grim search for reasonably priced commute as fares remained high through the day. 
 
 “For the past two days, I have had to take an autorickshaw. But auto drivers are charging more due to the strike. It usually costs around Rs 150 by Ola till Greater Noida but now I have to spend around Rs 250 for an auto ride to my office,” said Ankita Vats, a regular user of the app-based services from Sector 16 in Noida. 
 
 Nipun Khanna, who had a meeting to attend in Delhi, couldn’t find a cab at New Delhi railway station, “No cab was available. I had two-three apps, but the rates were double. It usually costs Rs 350 till Noida, but   there was a huge wait time and apps were showing the estimate rate as approximately Rs 650.” 
 
 Another commuter at the station said, “I am visiting Delhi for the first time and auto drivers are demanding Rs 300 till Mayur Vihar,” said Ravi Shanker.
 
 Abhishek Gautam, a frequent user of the app-based cabs because of cheap fares, said, “On Sundays, I usually go to visit my family in Noida and take an Ola till Vishwavidyalaya in the evening as the Metro is crowded. Today, it was very difficult to find a cab; all apps had a wait time of an hour and the rates were double.”
 
 Cab drivers are, however, in no mood to relent. “There are about two lakh cars in the city and none of the drivers is happy with the aggregators. We will be on an indefinite strike until our demands are fulfilled,” said Gill. 
 
 The demands include accidental insurance, shorter working hours, increased incentives and revision of minimum fares. Another point of contention is the differing duty sheet for drivers who own the vehicle and those who have taken loan with the help of the aggregators for a car. 
 
 “Ola and Uber charge Rs 800 as daily rent if you don’t have your own car. The ones who have rented the cars are given priority over us,” said Narendar Kumar, who drives for Uber.
 
 
