PATNA: Nationalist   Party (NCP) general secretary and former Union minister   said on Sunday   CM   would no longer be acceptable in the anti-BJP opposition alliance as he had lost his political credibility.

 “Even if PM Narendra Modi or the BJP dumps Nitish in future, I don’t think there is any chance of his return to the anti-BJP opposition alliance,” Anwar told media persons.
 
 “We doubt if even PM Modi would consider him a dependable ally. He, instead, would get all the work that is to be done through him, and then dump him,” Anwar said, adding: “All the political parties have lost faith in him.”
 
 In the context of the build-up to the 2019 parliamentary elections, Anwar said it was “good” that Nitish joined the BJP-led NDA in 2017 and not around 2019. “Even today, his joining the BJP fold has been a setback to the opposition unity. If he had done it just around the 2019 elections, it would have been far more damaging than what it is today,” he said.
 
 Anwar, who was accompanied by NCP state spokesman Anil Kishore Jha, said he had a detailed discussion with RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who has invited him to attend the August 27 rally, which would be attended by the anti-BJP opposition leaders, including Congress president  .
 
 Anwar said he had also met former JD(U) national president and Rajya Sabha member Sharad Yadav, who appeared “greatly upset” at Nitish joining hands with the BJP. “Sharad would not be a part of Nitish’s embrace with the BJP. He told me that what Nitish had done was his personal decision, and that he would never join hands with communal forces,” Anwar said, praising Sharad for his stand. He, however, did not elaborate the next course he might take in the future.
 
 Anwar also said “some other leaders” might walk out of the BJP-led NDA. When asked if he was referring to RLSP chief and Union minister Upendra Kushwaha and Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, Anwar denied it. “I will not take any specific name, but some other leaders have been making up their mind to walk out of the NDA,” Anwar said.
 
 Incidentally, there is no representation of either the RLSP or the HAM-S in the 27-member Nitish cabinet. 
 
 
