HYDERABAD: The doctor, who was arrested for manufacturing and peddling  , was reportedly inspired by whiskey chocolates,   and bhang, which is prepared during Holi. 

 Rachakonda police said Dr Mohammed Sujath Ali Khan, in his confession, claimed after having whiskey chocolates, he hit upon the idea of preparing   chocolates as he himself was addicted to marijuana. Apart from Hyderabad, he had clients in Bengaluru, Chennai and Vellore. Also, a majority of Khan’s regular clientèle included women and students. 
 
 “The accused used to get payment through net banking, while the chocolates used to be delivered through courier. He used to earn about Rs 40,000 by selling the products,’’ Special Operation Team (SOT) inspector Narsing Rao told TOI. 
 
 Police said that the accused would sell his product through Instagram and has 700-800 followers. Officials are verifying how many of them were his actual customers. During investigation, the customers might be questioned by the police. 
 
 Khan was a fitness freak and used to work out at a gym in Bahadurpura. As he was a doctor, other gym regulars used to consult him regarding nutrition-based issues and even sought his advice on the right kind of food to eat. However, Khan was not a qualified nutritionist. 
 
 The accused’s father Qutub Ali Khan, who had worked in Dubai, died some time back. This was one of the reasons behind Khan getting into ganja peddling. The culprit used chocolate to mask ganja probably because he felt the sweets would easily bluff security during transportation. The different varieties of chocolates - X, XX, XXX, 4X, 5X - represented the degree of ganja content in the chocolate and it would be clearly mentioned on the box. For instance in a 5X product, there would be about 15 grams of ganja in the chocolate. 
 
 After a customer used to call Khan after seeing his post on Instagram, he would explain the ingredients of the chocolate bar. Police said that Khan’s family members were in the dark about his illegal business. “Khan drew a comparison between bhang and his chocolate ganja to claim that the preparation was somewhat similar,” police said. The culprit has been obtaining ganja from local sources. 
 
 
