ALLAHABAD: Keeping an eye on the forthcoming  , the   (BJP) leadership is no mood to relax after its   in  . The   district leadership is back in action congregating its cadre and workers base and spreading the initiatives of the Narendra Modi-led Union government among urban and semi-urban masses. 

 As the municipal polls are expected to take place in the end week of June month or first week of July, the party leadership has drafted a plan to cover maximum houses in urban and semi-urban pockets between May 10 and 25.
 
 Ashish Gupta, BJP Mahanagar vice-president, told TOI, "The party has given additional responsibility to its cadre to cover every house, connect with people, apprise them of Modi-led Union government’s initiatives and populist scheme as well as take feedback of Yogi Adityanath-led state government under its fortnight campaign." The campaign starts from May 10 and would end on May 25.
 
 Under the “Mera Ghar – Bhajapa Ka Ghar” campaign, BJP cadre and workers would paste stickers on doors and also hoist party flags on houses. The party plans to cover at least one lakh houses in urban and semi-urban pockets of the Sangam city.
 
 Gupta further added the party leadership has also drafted a series of events and plans which would be carried out till September 25. 
 
 Party's district spokesman Pawan Srivastava told TOI, “After the landslide victory in UP assembly elections, party leadership is eyeing 2019 parliamentary polls." He further added “the party has also started preparation for the forthcoming municipal polls and for that party leaders and workers would be connecting with massess. As there are 80 wards in Sangam city, the party has set a target of 60 plus (for corporator seats along with mayoral post)."
 
 Srivastava also claimed that office-bearers of mahanagar city, working committee members, and mandal presidents have been assigned duties to connect with people in every ward and block level to restrengthen party base in urban and rural pockets. 
 
 To promote party’s agenda and policies, party leadership is also creating “Vistarak” (supporters) for every mandal and ward who would coordinate and manage the organisation’s outreach programmes in the district, assist the dissemination of the state and Center’s welfare benefits and be in touch with booth committee workers. 
 
 Leaders, meanwhile, said that vistaraks are an extension of poll assistants who would be managing booth committees. These vistaraks would help the party to get new members and extend the party’s outreach in every block, village and wards. 
 
