GAYA: In an interesting turn of events, Upendra Prasad, a tailor living in the Civil Lines police station area of the town, has put none other than chief election commissioner ( )   in trouble and has got a warrant of arrest issued against him. The case pertains to Joti’s decision taken as the managing director of the   in 2008. 

 In his petition, Upendra alleged that in 1993, he bought bonds worth Rs3600 issued by the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited and he was promised Rs1,11,000 after 20 years, in 2013. But ultimately he got only Rs45,360. The court took cognisance against Joti in a complaint case no. 1537/15 lodged in September 2015. It was taken up for hearing on February 3 this year. 
 
 The warrant was issued by the court of additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM) Dinesh Kumar Pradhan. The court ordered issuance of warrant on June 30 and the case was listed for hearing on September 16. However, it could not be taken up as the ACJM was on leave. It will now come up for hearing on October 7.
 
 On August 24, the CEC, through his lawyer Birendra Kumar, sought exemption from personal appearance promising that ‘he will appear before the court as and when required’. A copy of the gazette notification appointing him as CEC was annexed with the petition. However, Joti was not appointed CEC at the time of issuing the warrant. 
 
 Sources said the CEC petition said on account of his official position, he was required to do lots of work and travelling and, as such, it was not convenient for him to appear in person. No order has so far been passed on the CEC’s petition seeking exemption from personal appearance.
 
 According to petitioner’s lawyer Ejaz Khan, he has annexed a letter issued by Joti in 2008 stating therein that the bond was being prematurely redeemed. “My client lodged the case in 2015 and has made Joti an accused in the case as he was the person who issued order for premature redemption which caused him heavy financial loss,” said Khan.
 
 Joti’s lawyer, while accepting the premature redemption of the bond in the court, attributed it to a step taken in the ‘larger public interest’.
 
