NEW DELHI: The   government is aiding the fight against terrorism with stronger ground intelligence and the participation of J&K police, improving the success ratios of   in the state.

 Intelligence largely generated by J&K police, and improved coordination among the state police, the CRPF and the Army in joint operations have emerged as key factors in the elimination of 95 terrorists till July 9 this year, senior sources in the government said. This figure is higher than that seen in the whole of 2012 and 2013.
 
 The security forces have persevered to take live encounters to their logical end even in the face of local resistance, which is also being tackled more systematically, with a core of stonepelters being identified through technical surveillance.
 
 The results on the ground, said sources, indicated that the perceived hesitation of PDP in acting against troublemakers in its pockets of districts of its political influence is no longer a hurdle.
 
 Agencies are optimistic that the figure of 150 terrorists neutralised in J&K in 2016 may well be breached this year as operations remain in high gear, helped by a political dispensation at the Centre and in the state that is willing to give counter-terror forces a free hand in all lawful actions to tackle terrorism.
 
 The incidence of terror-related violence in J&K is high, with 172 incidents recorded until July 9 (see graphic), but senior security officials said this is largely due to terrorists being engaged in encounters almost on a daily basis.
 
 “Motivational levels are higher, intelligence is more pinpointed as it is coming largely from the local network of state police, and response of forces like the CRPF is quicker...” said a senior official in the central security establishment.
 
 Coordination among J&K police, the CRPF and the Army, which undertake joint counter-terror operations, is better as not only are their local commanders discussing intelligence inputs on a daily basis, but the CRPF and J&K quick reaction teams have also been training together for 5-6 months, an officer pointed out.
 
 More importantly, it was pointed out, security personnel are taking encounters to the end despite disrupters trying to create escape routes for terrorists. “The forces are sustaining armed engagement and neutralising terrorists who fail to surrender, rather than letting them slip away amid stonepelting around encounter sites,” said the officer.
 
 
