PATNA: A large number of teachers on Sunday continued boycotting the evaluation of   of the matriculation and intermediate examinations conducted by Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB), despite the state government’s appeal to them to withdraw their agitation in the interest of the students who would suffer due to  
 
  BSEB chairman Anand Kishor on Sunday agreed the pace of evaluation was slow due to agitating teachers but assured the students to take all possible steps to ensure that they don’t face any problem in applying and getting admission in higher classes.
  
  While contract teachers are demanding equal pay for equal work, those from unaided colleges are asking the government to give them salary directly, instead of giving aid to the institution they are working for.
  
  Kishor admitted that the evaluation of matriculation answer books, which was supposed to start on April 1, began only on Saturday, one of the district magistrates said hardly 30% of the intermediate answer sheets were evaluated in his district while not a single matriculation answer sheet was touched so far. Intermediate answer books were supposed to be evaluated from March 15, but it started at many places as late as April 8.
  
  Around 55,000 teachers were supposed to evaluate the answer sheets of intermediate and matriculation examination. Around 20,000 of them are contract teachers and around 12,000 are from the unaided government institutes.
  
  “The government sends grant to the unaided institutes to pay salary to the teachers. However, huge amount is misused by the institute owners who have political connections,” said J N Singh Madhu, general secretary of Vitt Rahit Shikshak Sangharsh Morcha.
  
  Bihar Secondary School Teachers’ Association general secretary Shatrughan Prasad Singh said even the permanent teachers were supporting their strike and boycott of evaluation work. Singh accused the government of misbehaving with the teachers. “We are teachers, not criminals. Why an FIR was lodged when we were protesting peacefully,” said a teacher, who was protesting near Beltron Bhawan on Sunday. “We are protesting 200 metres away from the evaluation centre, still our district secretary was picked up by the Shastri Nagar police station. Later, he was released. This is how the teachers are treated in Bihar,” he added.
  
  On Thursday, chief secretary   told the district magistrates, officials of education department and BSEB chairman Anand Kishor to ensure the evaluation of answer books by roping in CBSE schoolteachers. But that, too, could not work as sources in the education department said they were busy with their own CBSE papers and taking classes in their schools.
  
  “The delay in results will adversely affect those who are supposed to apply for admission or to write supplementary examination. Only 50% of the Intermediate answer books have been evaluated in Patna district and hardly a few   have been examined so far,” an education department official said.
  
  Because of online registration this year, a large number of students could not get their admit cards and a few got wrong subjects printed on their admit cards. After their protests, BSEB chairman had assured them to give a chance to take the examination with those appearing at the supplementary test. The examination was said to be preponed in May-end or June first week so that such students would not face any problem in taking admission in colleges. Due to delay in the evaluation, it is not possible to conduct compartmental examination soon, an official said.
