This February 13, marked two years of Anegan’s release, and  , who had gone missing from   since then, says that fans had shared on her social media pages their wishes and videos that they had made expressing their love for the film. “It was touching. It also showed that they haven’t forgotten me,” she says. Now, she is back, playing the female lead in Santhanam’s action comedy Odi Odi Uzhaikkanum, directed by Manikandan of Kanna Laddu Thinna Aasaiya fame.

 Quiz the actress about her absence and she explains, “After  , I was supposed to make my Telugu debut with Puri (Jagannadh) sir, but around the same time, I was offered KungFu Yoga. I did not want to miss it, but it took almost one year of my life — from October 2015 till February 2017. First, I had to train for the stunts here. Then, I went to China to train more and after that we were shooting the film for 10 months. This was followed by post-production work like dubbing and patch work. And then, we had to promote the film. So, that’s why it has been like a long break.”
 
 But she adds that working on the film was “an amazing experience”. “The atmosphere on the set was crazy. Their budget is so much, so the sets were huge and grand. I’ve never seen sets like that. Then we went to Iceland, which was my most favourite part. I’d never seen snow before and to see walls of ice in the country was fantastic,” she gushes.   calls   “awesome” and says that he wasn’t behaving like a superstar but became a friend after a few days of shoot.
 
 In her current film, the actress informs that she plays an investigative journalist. “But it isn’t a serious role,” she says, “There is a comic side to her as well. When Manikandan sir gave me a narration over phone, I thought it was very funny and family-friendly. As a heroine, you mainly get love stories or completely serious roles, but this is just fun.”
 The actress reveals that they had actually started shooting for this film in November, but “because of demonetisation, Jayalalithaa ma’s death, the cyclone and jallikattu, things took some time to get back on track”. They are presently in their second schedule and she adds that the shoot of the entire film is likely to get over by March.
 
 Talking about her co-star, she says that he’s as funny off camera as he is in front of it. “He is one of the funniest people I’ve met. I remember him cracking a joke in the middle of a shoot, and I just couldn’t stop laughing,” he says. But wasn’t she apprehensive of getting looked over by top heroes for pairing up with a comedian-turned-hero? “I don’t believe in such things. I know Santhanam’s last movie was a blockbuster. He is a good actor, a good comedian and a hardworking person. And he makes people laugh and that makes him special. So, at the end of the day, I’ll work with anybody who does good work.”
 
 
 When the camera is on, he gets into his character like that (she snaps her finger). That’s one thing I admire about Dhanush and I want to learn how to do that. In the beginning, I thought he was a serious person, but when the camera isn’t rolling, he’s very humble and kind. He loves his books. I remember seeing him with a new book every week on the set of Anegan and asking him how much he reads. He knows everything that’s going around. He looks quiet, but he actually knows a lot of gossip.
 
