PUNE: Police commissioner   has ordered an inquiry into Shiv Sena spokesperson Neelam Gorhe’s complaint about receiving obscene messages and threats on her cellphone since February 21.

 Gorhe, Sena’s deputy leader in the state Legislative Council and a resident of   in Shivajinagar, forwarded the obscene messages and threats she received to Shukla twice with a request to look into the matter.
 
 Shukla told TOI, “I have received Gorhe’s complaint on my WhatsApp account and have taken a serious cognisance of the same. I have increased her security and formed a team, including cyber experts, to investigate the matter. A case will be registered based on the outcome of the inquiry.”
 
 She said, “We are using the expertise of our cyber cell and technical persons to trace the location of the unknown sender of these messages. As of now, the unknown number is ‘switched off’.”
 
 Gorhe told TOI, “The police have stepped up my security by assigning two women police personnel in addition to the constable regularly providing security cover to me.”
 
 Referring to the incident, Gorhe said, “I received the first SMS from an unknown cellphone number on February 21. The content was full of obscene text and the messenger threatened to shoot me.”
 
 “The same day, I forwarded the message to Shukla and Mumbai’s joint commissioner of police Deven Bharti for appropriate action. But there was no progress in the matter,” she said.
 
 Gorhe said, “I again forwarded the message to Bharti and the latter suggested that I should block the number, which I did. But on February 27, I received the same message on my personal cellphone.”
 
 She said, “I forwarded the second message to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and the latter called me, assuring that he had issued necessary directions to the police authorities regarding an investigation. I also met our executive president Uddhav Thackeray and he assured me about the party standing firmly behind me.”
 
 Gorhe said, “I have full faith in Shukla and Bharti and I am sure they will detect this case.”
 
