With the nightlife industry increasing by leaps and bounds in Gurgaon, the number of pub   in the city has also gone up. And unlike Delhi, most pub brawls here involve bouncers. In the last 15 days alone there have been two such cases. On December 28, the owner and   of a pub in the MGF Metropolitan Mall on the MG Road were arrested over a brawl. The day after that, four bouncers of a pub in Sector 29 were accused of sexually harassing and assaulting three medical students from Nepal. The bouncers were soon arrested. A source from   tells us that a few months ago, the staff and bouncers at a restaurant there were involved in a fight and they even beat each other with sticks. In July last year, a group of bouncers allegedly stole Rs 55,000 from the cash counter of a nightclub in a mall on Golf Course Road, and also beat up the staff. In March, a video of a man being thrashed by bouncers at a pub in a mall in Gurgaon came to light.
Those in the nightlife business say that “there are not many clubs and pubs in the city that give proper training to bouncers on how to deal with customers. Most bouncers are not hired through reputed security agencies.” 
 
 
 
 Amit Kapoor, the owner of a restaurant in DLF Star Mall, says, “Most bouncers in the city are not trained and keeping them is more harmful for the business. So we don’t have bouncers at our place. Untrained bouncers, who are hired only because of their good physique, do not understand that their job is not just to show muscle power. The way they speak also sometimes agitates the guests, who may be drunk and not in their senses. That is why most fights happen.” 
 
 There are also not many security agencies to cater to an increasing demand of trained bouncers in Gurgaon. “We make sure that we hire bouncers from a reputed security agency. There is a plethora of options in Delhi, but not many in Gurgaon. Some pubs hire guys who have a good build but do not understand that the job of a bouncer is not to get into a scuffle or beat someone up,” says Varun Duggal, who is part of the management team of a restaurant at Cyber Hub. 
 
 A staff member at a pub in Sector 29 says that some pubs “are too generous in offering bouncer jobs to friends of staff members, without checking who they are or if they are even trained.” He says, “For some, the criteria is ki hatta-katta dikhna chahiye, bas entrance pe hi toh khada hona hai. They do not realise that these are the people who end up causing brawls or getting into fights with guests. In some pubs, if a staff member will tell the owner ki mera dost body builder hai, usse bouncer rakh lo, toh usko job mil jayegi. Body builders ki toh kami nahin hai Haryana mein.” 
 Restaurateur Shiv Karan Singh says that in the name of training, “the management of many restaurants just tells bouncers that their job is not to chat or talk with guests or respond violently. In case someone misbehaves, a bouncer’s job is to get that person out of the restaurant.”
 
 Bouncers who work in Delhi and Gurgaon agree that the reason why there are so many brawls involving bouncers in Gurgaon is that they are not trained for the job. Surender Singh, a bouncer, says, “Most bouncers in Gurgaon are not registered with agencies, they just do physical training. Inhe aise hi job mil jati hai, aur phir ye bouncers naam kharab karte hain.” Another bouncer from a village in Haryana says, “Har owner detail nahin leta hai bouncers ki. Woh sochta hai iska toh bas thodi der ka kaam hai.”
 
