AHMEDABAD: Union law and justice minister,   said here on Saturday that “a   will be built in Ayodhya, constitutionally”.

  Talking on the sidelines of 8th convocation of Gandhinagar-based Gujarat National Law University (GNLU), Prasad claimed that a large number of Muslim women, victims of triple talaq, voted for BJP in the recently concluded Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.
 
 “The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court has already given its verdict that Ram Lalla (Lord Ram) was born at the same place where Ram Lalla resides at present. The bench also considered that the other side had failed to prove the existence of Babri mosque. The case is pending in the  ,” he said.
 
 “The constitutional ways are in favour of the Ram temple. After the SC verdict, a grand Ram temple will be built (in Ayodhya) as per constitutional way,” Prasad said on being asked when the Ram temple will be built.
 
 Prasad also accused the opposition and its women leaders of playing appeasement politics by remaining silent on the triple talaq issue.
 
  “Triple talaq is not the issue of a religion but of gender justice, gender equality and gender dignity. We respect others’ way of worship but a wrong tradition cannot become a way of worship. If a Hindu says that I will practice untouchability because it is a part and the need of my worship, it cannot be done because untouchability is prohibited by the Constitution. In the same way, the Constitution also says not to discriminate against the women,” he said.
 
 “Over 20 Islamic countries in the world either regulated or banned the triple talaq. If these Islamic countries never took the issue of triple talaq something against Sharia law, then why a secular country like India should consider it. We will press this issue aggressively before the Supreme Court,” Prasad added.
 
 Taking a potshot at Congress, Prasad said, “Rahul Gandhi is the biggest problem of Congress. This is not BJP’s responsibility to take Congress forward but we certainly want Congress as a strong opposition party.”
 
 Also present at the convocation ceremony were Justice Pinaki Chandra Ghosh of the Supreme Court, Chief Justice R Subhash Reddy of the Gujarat high court and Gujarat’s law minister  . Degrees were given to 221 students — PhD scholars (4), postgraduate (LLM) (66); and undergraduate LLB, Honours (151).
 
