CHANDIGARH: “While he could well afford expensive alcohol in the army mess, he chose to drink what everyone else did. Tales of his marksmanship are still recounted by his seniors... there were legendary stories of Amarinder's shooting abilities.“ This is an excerpt from a new biography on former chief minister,  , on whom the Congress hinged its entire campaign for the 2017 assembly election in Punjab.

 'Captain Amarinder Singh The People's Maharaja', penned by Chandigarh based author  , will be released on Tuesday. The book captures the 74-year-old erstwhile   royal's roller-coaster ride, from his childhood days when he battled against mathematics, to his present-day political battles. Interestingly, Amarinder's 75th birthday falls on March 11, the day results of the latest assembly elections will be announced. The result will decide whether it will be a grand celebration of a somber event given that Amarinder has announced that this will be his last election.
 
 There are anecdotes in the book about how Amarinder gained popularity in the army by deftly shooting down “Nabu“, a variety of mountain sheep while other officers could not. “It led to the commanding officer assigning a patrol and a rifle to Amarinder.“
 
 Former army chief General  , who contested the 2017 assembly election from Patiala had, however, attacked Amarinder for his stint in the army. He had said that Amarinder got VIP treatment in the 1965 India-Pakistan war as he was only ADC to Western Army Commander, Lt Gen Harbaksh Singh.
 
 The book brings alive some rare moments of his life, relying on varied sources such as the 'daily diary' of the  , diligently maintained by an institution called Sardar Sahib Deodhi Mualla, which had recorded an elaborate description of the “yuvraj' of Patiala's birth. From `appetizers', a salute of 101 cannons was offered to mark the momentous occasion,“ it reads.
 
 It also candidly describes how the 2012 assembly election result was a shocker as it turned Amarinder into a “punching bag“.
 
 His detractors targeting him for his “coterie and his personal lifestyle and also his style of functioning“ for the defeat at the hands of the SADBJP alliance. Most pollsters had predicted a win for the Congress but the opposition was better organized at the time.
 
 The books chooses to take off by introducing the soldier in Amarinder at a his birthday bash on March 11, 2012, which seemed to have turned into a somber and ironic occasion as it came close on the heels of electoral loss. “I was there and was impressed with the way Captain maintained his poise. He told those present that he believed in moving on,“ recalls Khushwant.
 
 There is also reference to Amarinder's German governess Hede Dayal, who talks about Amarinder as a child and how he was perpetually distracted by sounds outside the classroom ­ soldiers doing the drill and sound of two gun shots, a sign of his early fascination with the defence forces.
 
 The book also carries informative value and unravels the subterfuges of politicians and also some religious leaders with behind the scene intrigues, plots and counter plots even as Punjab was in the “vice-like grip of terrorism in the late twentieth century and its consequences have been objectively recorded.“
 
 “The book is an objective take on Amarinder's tenure as CM. Amarinder did not even once ask for even one insertion or deletion wherever there was any criticism of him as a politician,“ said Khushwant.
 
