NAGPUR: With tiger numbers plummeting across the globe and only 3,900 of them left in the wild of which 2,226 are in India, shrinking habitat and increasing threats from poaching and different sources are forcing them to be rescued and live a caged life of celibacy.

 Even as countries celebrate World Tiger Day on Saturday, TOI looks into plethora of issues whether celibacy affects tigers’ health, are there any psychological issues, do wildcats face any other problems and is captive breeding necessary.
 
 The issue has hogged limelight after 8-year-old tigress Lee has been sent to mate with a same age male named Sahebrao at Gorewada Rescue Centre on breeding loan. Both the tigers were rescued from the wild separately and are celibates.
 
 Due to many reasons, mating in zoos among wild animals is not actively encouraged in India. Strangely, no study has been conducted by any experts here on the implications of tigers not being allowed to mate. In India in 2015-17, 45 tigers died in zoos due to lack of health monitoring protocols.
 
 With opinions divided, a section of wildlife veterinarians feels celibacy affects tigers’ health and psychology. Some say captive breeding has no conservation value and celibacy also hardly matters. Some feel a clear plan is needed before jumping to captive breeding. The   (CZA) norms say that a ‘compatible group’ of two tigers can be kept together.
 
 “I feel that forced celibacy of wild animals in captivity and its psychological impacts on them are the issues. At the same time, a vet may find breeding between Lee and Sahebrao promising, but for foresters the exercise is wasteful having seen prolific breeding tigers in the wild. So much so that the competition in the forests is pushing tigers to the brink. Therefore, in absence of any tiger breeding programme in line with the national breeding policy for tigers, I find the idea of allowing breeding of two tigers totally absurd,” said SS Mishra, ex-APCCF (wildlife).
 
 “Captive tiger breeding programme is a serious issue and a lot of thought needs to go into it before and after undertaking it,” he added.
 
 However, Maharajbagh Zoo in-charge Dr SS Bawaskar admits that getting a mate for zoo tigresses is a ‘psychological and biological requirement’, but adds that no studies have been done on these issues here.
 
 Dr Vinod Dhoot, a wildlife vet for two decades, agrees that celibacy creates harmonal imbalance among tigers. Males generally suffer from enlarged prostrate glands, which results in increased pressure on ureter, thereby creating pressure on the kidney.
 
 “As the animal has not mated for longer duration, the cholesterol concentration in circulation will increase. However, as the animal is obsessed, the fat soluble vitamins will not be available for its conversion to harmones. A male can also develop feminine characters,” said Dr Dhoot.
 
 Even a research in 1987 by a group of US wildlife experts on behavioural profile of captive Bengal female tigers during the breeding season showed that the tigresses were vocalizing (calling or moaning), prustening (a greeting call that sounds like air expelled softly through the nostrils), rubbing the cheek, forehead or flank against the walls/bars of the enclosure, rolling over and writhing on the back, exhibiting lordosis or semilordosis (postures assumed just prior to copulation) and urine-spraying.
 
 According to wildlife vet Dr Bahar Baviskar, who is member of IUCN’s Conservation Breeding Specialists Group, the reproductive health of tigers will definitely go down if not allowed to mate after attaining maturity. “Celibacy will have physical and psychological effects on tigers. It will also increase their stress levels,” said Dr Baviskar.
 
 Wildlife biologists said if you have a male housed near female cats, the females experience what is termed as false pregnancy because in the wild the presence of a male makes them ovulate and leads to mating. However, in captivity, if you house a male near the female, she repeatedly ovulates and this is said to cause health problem for the females.
 
 Mahendra Shrestha, programme director of Tiger Conservation Partnership ( ) at   (SCBI), Washington, says you need to be clear about the purpose of captive breeding of tigers and what is the plan with the cubs reproduced.
 
 “At the National Zoological Park, Washington, tigers and other animals are bred to maintain a healthy population among the zoos as they exchange animals between the zoos to maintain a healthy genetic pool,” said Shrestha.
 
 Keshav Varma of Global Tiger Initiative agrees with Mishra stating that tiger farms started that way in China have become the biggest reason for illegal trade and traffic of tiger parts and derivatives. This exercise must be stopped forthwith.
 
 Contrarily, Wildlife Institute of India (WII) tiger scientist Bilal Habib says   is an art. “It should be done to retain their ability at places where there is really a need. There is no age bar for tiger mating and in the wild you see tigers mate even at age of 12,” says Habib.
 
 For former IFS officer SP Singh, celibacy is not a cause concern. “In India, we need to highlight wildlife corridors which are greatly threatened due to encroachments and lop-sided development,” said Singh.
 
 Why yes
 
 * It is a biological and physical requirement of animals
 
 * Celibacy creates harmonal imbalance among tigers
 
 * It should be done to retain their ability at places where there is really a need
 
 * The CZA norms say that a ‘compatible group’ of two tigers can be kept together
 
 Why no
 
 * Breeding such pairs has no conservation value, hence it is not necessary
 
 * Bringing up cubs in captivity looks nice in pictures but it eventually results in a wild animal spending its entire life behind bars
 
 * A female raised in captivity does not have any experience of raising cubs in the wild
 
 * Breeding big cats in captivity requires considerable expertise. Nor Maharajbagh nor Gorewada has specialized staff to handle the situation
 
 
