PARSONS GREEN: Within hours of the   terror attack, Bangladeshi blogger Sushanta Das Gupta reached the spot to check out the situation on  . “Such blasts aren’t too big. But there will be strict vigil now. I am sure things will be normal very soon,” said Das Gupta, as he walked down the affected locality, talking to locals and shooting videos.

 A white sheet of paper hung in front of the doorway of Susan Leslie’s house. A Sri Lankan general physician who now runs her own business, Susan has been living in Parsons Green for some years now. Her house is just five minutes away from the station where after an improvised explosive device (IED) had gone off leaving 18 people injured with flash burns, grazes and scrapes on Friday morning. As the images of a schoolgirl with burn injuries and panic-stricken commuters crying and running started getting beamed on television, the Leslie family decided to throw open their doors to anyone who needed assistance. “It was my daughter Holy’s idea to let everyone in. On a sheet of paper, she wrote ‘Toilets + Charging Ports. Feel Free to Use Them’. We can’t allow terrorists to defeat us,” said Susan as Holy welcomed everyone to their house with invitations for charging phones and having coffee.
 
 A wonderful gesture in times of trouble, said  , before walking down the road to Maraim Boudarga’s household. Her husband,  , has a Mumbai connection. When TOI approached her to share her experiences, she too was equally warm and invited us inside. “We have two boys and a girl and they go to the Marie D’Orliac school. The kids were already in class and Jason was walking in front of the tube station when the blast happened. Thankfully, he reached home safely. Soon, we received an email from the school saying that our kids are safe too. As of now, the entire area is cordoned off. But when the school closes at 3 pm, I will go down to pick up my children,” said Mariam, concerned about what has happened to her friend Martina who has been asked to evacuate from her house. “This area has at least four to five schools in the vicinity and there has been a lot of panic once the news spread. Some schools had parent-teacher meetings that had to be cancelled,” Maraim said.
 
 Amidst the media frenzy was campaigner Gloria Wildman to talk about saving Charing Cross Hospital. “My parents live in this locality and I came here after hearing of the explosion,” Wildman said.
 
 By noon, the area near Fulham Fire Station still looked desolate. Constables from the Metropolitan Police Office kept strict vigil. Two tube stations – Parsons Green and Fulham Broadway – had suspended their operations. Stephen Cowan, the leader of Hammersmith and Fulham Council, was on the spot. “Our heartfelt sympathy goes to those wounded in the attack. Our message to those who try to maim and kill is that we remain united in the face of terror attacks,” he said.
 
 That was true and by afternoon, buses and taxis had started plying. From beauty parlours to cafes, from acupuncture and herbal remedy centres to restaurants – everything in Fulham was functional. The tube from Earl’s Court station to Wimbledon was suspended but trains were available from there along the Piccadilly Line. Mothers with babies in prams, college students and office-goers – for them it was life as usual at the Earl’s Court tube station.
 
 According to Das Gupta, this was expected. “We can’t let terrorists beat our spirit. The injuries are unfortunate. Since the incident happened during peak office hours, panic was expected. But we Londoners will bounce back to life soon,” Das Gupta said.
 
 Life, as it is said, begins at the end of one’s comfort zone. Uniting to fight back, to return to normal life soon after terrorists’ strike are ways of living life to the hilt.
 
