PATNA: Saddened by Saturday’s boat tragedy that claimed 24 lives, the state government on Sunday cancelled all its programmes, including the four-day kite festival in the riverine area of the Ganga from where the victims of boat mishap were returning to the city.

 As per the schedule, the kite festival was to continue till January 17, but it was cancelled midway on Sunday after CM   ordered either cancellation or postponement of all government programmes in the wake of the boat tragedy.
 
 Sensing gravity of the tragedy, the Union government too cancelled the inauguration of rehabilitation work on   that was scheduled to be held at Terasia village in Vaishali district on Sunday. PM Narendra Modi was to inaugurate the renovation work through video conferencing. Union minister of road transport and highways   and CM Nitish Kumar was to take part in the programme at Terasia village. The Centre cancelled the inauguration programme at the request of Bihar CM.
 
 According to the CM’s itinerary for Sunday, released by his office on Saturday itself, Nitish was to inaugurate a programme on earthquake safety at   around 4pm on Sunday. This programme, too, was cancelled in the wake of boat tragedy.
 
 The RJD also postponed its fortnightly ‘Samvad’ programme scheduled for Monday. Co-operative minister Alok Kumar Mehta was scheduled to hear grievances of the members of grand alliance at the programme.
 
 The Yuva JD (U) too postponed its state executive body meeting which was to be held on Monday. However, the Bihar Pradesh JD (U) Mahila Prakoshtha will hold its scheduled meeting of state office-bearers on January 16 at the state JD (U) office,” the women cell’s state chief   said. 
 
 Moreover, ruling parties JD (U) and RJD too cancelled their special feast of ‘dahi-chura’ on Sunday. While the JD (U) had planned to hold a special feast of dahi-chura at the residence of its state president Bashishtha Narayan Singh, RJD had organised similar feast for members of minority communities at the house of party president Lalu Prasad. Both the feasts were cancelled in the wake of boat tragedy. 
 
