NAGPUR: Results for board exams this year may get pushed back by a week considering the late start due to polls. Both state board and CBSE started late because of   respectively. 

 Academicians feel that a week’s delay is imminent as the   also gets extended. “We already have the   going across the state but it is important to note that we have begun that job a week late,” said a school’s principal. 
 
 Board officials however disagree. Though no one wanted to come on record, a senior board official told TOI that the work to evaluate answersheets is on track. “We keep doing a status-check on the situation regularly and estimate that our teachers will submit everything on time. I think the results will be around May 25, maybe a day or two more but certainly not more than a week,” said the official. 
 
 Apart from the delayed start, the other problem facing state board is a ‘go-slow’ protest by some HSC evaluators. Members of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA) said they will only evaluate one paper a day till their demands are met. Ashok Gavhankar, gen secy of VJUCTA said, “Usually we are given 25 papers a day but that is now out of question. Obviously when the pending paperwork piles up it will create a cause for concern.”
 
 CBSE too delayed its exam start for a week because of assembly polls lined up across states. Last year CBSE STD XII kick-started the results season on May 21 while state board started off on May 25 with HSC. SSC results always run into June because of the sheer numbers involved. It remains the biggest, in terms of students appearing, exam in state with over 16 lakh students. If at all, as academicians predict, SSC results get delayed the junior college admission process too will take a hit. Admission to city’s colleges (STD XI) is done through the Common Admission Procedure (CAP) and it starts immediately after results are announced. 
 
 A junior college teacher said, “The CAP admission round and confirmation of seats is a process that goes on well into July and session starts either in the last week of that month or August. We always wish that admissions should be completed earlier and hope that the results are declared on time.”
 
