NEW DELHI: Invoking former associates Anna Hazare and Aruna Roy, with whom he had worked during the early years of India Against Corruption and the struggle for right to information (RTI), chief minister Arvind   launched the Delhi government’s online   portal on Monday.

 The portal, which had received 32 applications till 5pm, will allow citizens to file RTI applications and ‘first appeal’ in case of further grievances in about 172 departments, including the CM’s office and those of cabinet ministers.
 
 “This is a historic day for Delhi in particular and India in general. I remember how Anna Hazare-ji and Aruna Roy-ji worked for right to information. They led the movement for the poorest because they knew that information was power. Aruna Roy-ji led the ‘Hamara Paisa, Hamara Hisaab’ campaign for transparency,” Kejriwal said.
 
 The CM, who became well known for his RTI work but has faced criticism for alleged lack of transparency in his government, said the real right would be achieved “when the government starts putting up information, which is important for the public domain, in public domain”. 
 
 He added, “Transparency will stop corruption. For example, when we are able to put details of sale and other registers of ration shops in the public domain, we will be able to plug corruption. Beneficiaries of the system will be more powerful as they will be equipped with information.”
 
 Kejriwal said the government would put up more and more information in the public domain. The departments involved with construction work, like PWD, DSIIDC, and irrigation & flood control, should make all such details public. Since people are paying tax, they have a right to know how the government is spending their money, he said.
 
 Law minister Kailash Gahlot said more features would be added in the coming days. The government plans to make even RTI replies public, instead of keeping it open just for the applicant. Someone looking for information on the same subject would then be able to access the response by the government, he added.
 
 By filing an application on the website, the applicant would not just get soft copies of the response but also message and email alerts if action is taken on their application.
 
 The leader of opposition, BJP’s Vijender Gupta, said he did not trust the government’s assurances of transparency. “An e-RTI   is nothing new and going by the history of the government, I am not convinced that they will be transparent. We will have to wait and see what it does with the new system,” he said.
 
