PATNA: The Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) will not entertain applications from Bihar Teacher Eligibility Test (BTET) examinees to “correct” the entries on their admit card except those pertaining to the candidate’s name, date of birth and parent’s name. The subject will now not be changed.

 The BSEB took the decision after a large number of candidates complained about mistakes in their admit card, issued by the board on its official website www.bsesbonline.net. Certain candidates even claimed their admit cards were not issued.
 
 Over 2.34 lakh candidates have applied to appear at the BTET to be conducted by the BSEB in two shifts at 348 examination centres across the state on July 23. The examination centres will have videographers and CCTV cameras. 
 
 The first shift will be held from 10am to 12.30pm for paper I (classes I to V) and the second shift from 2pm to 4.30pm for paper II (classes VI to VIII).
 
 BSEB’s chairman Anand Kishor said the candidates were given ample time to make corrections in their application form. “Even after we repeatedly asked them, they didn’t rectify their mistakes. Now that the admit card has been issued, the board will not allow change in the subject,” he said.
 
 “If a candidate has made a mistake in selecting the subject, it won’t be changed now. S/he has to write the exam of the subject mentioned in the admit card,” Shankar said and added, however, correction would be made if the mistake was found to have been committed by the board.
 
 Earlier, the board found that either the candidate’s signature or the photograph was not visible on over 3,600 application forms. These candidates were informed through mails and messages to upload the signature and photo afresh, sources said and added these candidates were also asked to bring two passport-size photographs and submit to the invigilator at the time of the exam.
 
 The examinees will have to carry their admit card as well as a photo ID card such as Aadhaar card. Their thumb impression will be taken in the biometric system before they are allowed allowed to enter the examination hall.
 
 The answer sheets will be barcoded and attendance of the examinees marked on OMR sheets.
 
 
