 / Sultanpur / Allahabad: At a chai shop near Faizabad junction, discussions on the elections veer towards the Muslim vote. Barring cab driver Azam, nobody wants to hazard a guess on whether it's getting divided between the SP-Congress alliance and the BSP.

 “BJP wants this division of votes. Par Musalman samajhta hai ki bade fayde ke liye chota nuksaan uthana padta hai (Muslims think one must be ready to suffer small losses for bigger gains),“ he says.
 
 He cites the example of Phulpur, the Allahabad seat where his relatives and, as he claims, 75% Muslims, have voted for SP's Mansoor Alam, ignoring BSP's Masroor Sheikh, although he is popular.
 
 “Masroor is rich, has worked in the area for three years and should have won easily . But people realised that only the SP, backed by the  , can stop the BJP and so decided to go with  's party,“ he explains.
 
 For Azam, a temporary or small loss would be popular Masroor's defeat and the big gain, which he expects, BJP failing to pull off a victory.
 
 In nearby Sultanpur, where the BSP is seen as much stronger than the SP, many Muslims seem caught between the two parties.
 
 “Things will be clearer at the last moment, as of now, the fight in most Sultanpur seats is between the BJP and the BSP,“ says Akeel Ahmed, a motor mechanic.
 
 Perhaps aware of this ambivalence,   urged Muslims to vote BSP “en masse“ a few days ago. Every Muslim vote to the SP will go to waste, she declared.
 
 Until eight months ago, Mayawati seemed to be creating the perfect storm in the form of a   alliance.
 
 However, Akhilesh's resurgence after he prevailed over uncle Shivpal and the SP-Congress alliance created the perception that Mayawati isn't sitting pretty as she was last year.
 
 Hoping that Muslims, who had started looking at the BSP last year as better-placed to defeat BJP, would stand with her, Mayawati gave 103 tickets to community members. The BSP chief hopes to ieve with a Dalit-Muslim achieve with a Dalit-Muslim pact what she did 10 years ago by bringing Dalits and Brahmins together. So determined is she to save the Dalit-Muslim entente, she even made up with Mukhtar Ansari and his family, allowing them to contest on BSP tickets.
 
 In doing that though, Mayawati was seen as diluting the mainstay of her 2017 UP campaign -the promise of an improved law and order administration.
 
 
