NEW DELHI: A 35-year-old woman was murdered, allegedly by her husband, at their Kotla   home in south Delhi on Saturday morning. Police said the accused, Tayyab, had a quarrel with his wife, Shabnam, after which he strangled her with a dupatta. The body was first noticed by her children after they came home from tuition classes. 

 Tayyab, a craftsman, had recently returned from  . He suspected Shabnam of having an illicit  , which often led to arguments between them.
 
 The incident was reported around 1pm when their landlord, Anil Kumar, noticed one of the kids crying outside their one-room flat in Bapu Nagar. When Kumar reached their room, he found Shabnam lying unconscious on the bed after which police were informed. Cops from the Kotla Mubarakpur police station reached the house and found Shabnam dead. The crime scene was inspected by a forensic team.
 
 Tayyab fled after committing the murder but was later arrested from a relative’s house in Noida, police said.
 
 Kumar said the couple lived on the first floor house where Shabnam used to run a coaching centre for children in the area. He told police that they were staying in the house for the past 20 years. After their marriage Tayyab had been living in Saudi Arabia. He used to come home occasionally during which he had arguments with Shabnam, police said. 
 
 On Saturday morning, they had a fight too, after which Tayyab went out without informing anyone in the locality. “We registered a case of murder. The accused will be interrogated to find out the reason,” said  , DCP, south.
 
 The body has been sent for postmortem during which doctors confirmed death due to strangulation. Tayyab suspected that Shabnam had been talking to a youth over phone and this why he killed her in a fit of rage, police said.
 
 Cops have seized the couple’s mobile phones to find out whether his allegations were true. The body would be handed over to the family members after the autopsy on Sunday.
 
 The two children—a two-year-old and a five-year-old—have been sent to a relative’s house in UP for the time being. Tayyab’s antecedents are also being verified to find out whether he was involved in criminal activities in the past.
 
 
