 After humming Ude dil Befikre,it is now time to sing Gujarati songs.   of VishalShekhar fame has just recorded his first Gujarati song. The singer turned actor was recently in the state to promote a television reality show he is judging and a Gujarati movie he has sung for.In a candid chat,he talks about singing for his first Gujarati film, wish to act in one and why reality shows are a good platform for upcoming musicians and singers. Excerpts:

  
 The song is very new age. It took  , the composer of the song almost two months to track me since I was busy with other assignments. He came to me and said that he couldn't do this song without me. That is when I had to give in. I have sung for other languages too but I am specifically inclined towards Gujarati since I am from the state. I know the language and have spent a part of my childhood and growing up years here coming to meet my relatives and my mom's friend so it was not difficult to sing in Gujarati. Even today, when I come to the city I have to inform all of them and my day is fixed from breakfast till post dinner. 
 
  
 It never happened previously. I think everything comes to us at the perfect time. It was meant to happen in 2017 so it has. 
 
  
 The kind of films that are made now is much more progressive as compared to previous ones. The melody has been kept intact,but it has evolved. 
 
 
  
 I would love to even if it is just a minute role. Just like that dialogue from
  I would say, role impressive hona chahiye bada nahi. I wouldn't mind even if it's a short role, but it has to make an impact. The role should be well- written. I am all for it even if it is not a solo scene. 
 
 
  
 Actually,I didn't start my journey from a reality show. I was a part of the advertising world before that. I was composing music for them while training under  . It was my friend who was participating in the show and asked me to give it a shot. I did and was selected. That's how I became a part of the reality show. 
 
 
 Definitely. There is immense talent in our country. I think singers and musicians who want to begin their career need a platform like this. In fact the ones I mentor, I ask them to put their work online and be active on social media. Then there comes a time when riyaz and the kind of efforts they put in actualizing their dream is more important. There are few who are very good initially,but they lose the fizz because of lack of efforts and that is what should not happen. For me chilling means making good music. I don't take break, I make music. I am relentless even today after being in the industry for over 20 years now and how it should be.
 
 I don't think so.I feel we live in a healthy industry where, if one person has dome a new song, we call each other and compliment. And give our honest review. 
 
