CHENNAI: In the age of touch and virtual reality, who would have thought there is an opportunity in the quintessential QWERTY keyboard. A clutch of companies, ranging from giants like Google and Logitech to startups like Bobble, are developing products and apps to suit the new age generation.

 Almost 3 decades into being in business, Logitech continues to innovate with the keyboard. From a multi device keyboard that supports three devices at a time to one that can be linked to the mouse, the company is betting big on this growing market. “Today’s consumer is computing and texting across multiple screens, often using different operating systems. Our line of multi-device keyboards make it simple for people to work and communicate quickly and comfortably, no matter their platform or device,” said Ashok Jangra, cluster category head - India & South West Asia, Logitech.
 
 Startup Bobble aims to offer personalisation through emojis. Users can take a selfie and personalise stickers they send to contacts. They are also building multiple functionalities within the keyboard to offer ease of use and contextual support. “The keyboard is centre to our work. We want to offer meaningful content to the user and give an opportunity for brands to be part of their conversations,” said Mohd Wassem, founder, Bobble.
 
 Wassem says while keyboard has been there as a tool for ages, it has not been viewed as a strategic product.”Who knew messaging was a market till WhatsApp came. Or search before Google. The same will happen for keyboards,” he said.
 
 The startup bagged funding from SAIF partners in 2015. “Bobble represents a rare few where the idea originated in India but has global applicability. With data becoming more affordable, people are looking for rich content exchange rather than just sms,” said  ,AVP, SAIF Partners.
 
 Another area that is offering scope is the Indic or regional language keyboard. Thirty one year old Sridhar Nagaraj started Just Indic 5 years back. Today, his keyboards come in 7 languages and are available on the Google  . While the Kannada and Hindi keyboard have a million users each, the other languages have about 3 - 5 lakh users each. On fighting off giants like Google, Nagaraj says, “We offer customised layouts that suit the Indian user. For example, our keyboards are as per InScript which is approved by the   or the Kagapa or Nudi format approved by the Government of Karnataka,” said Sridhar.
 
 According to a recent report by data research firm Kalagato, Google has over 90% of the market share followed by Bobble which has 4.5% followed by other companies like Just Indic and Panini. Aman Kumar, chief business officer, Kalagato, says larger opportunity lies in building products for the Indic keyboard rather than the keyboard itself. “The next 100 million smartphone users will be predominantly comfortable with regional languages. While Google dominates this market, the scope to build on this is huge. The journey of a typical user is from content to commerce. For first time smartphone users, it is visual video content that will drive adoption.”
 
