COIMBATORE:   rural police seized Rs 1 crore in demonetised currency notes from three persons near Solipalayam in   in Tirupur on Saturday night.

 The trio were identified as Ramasamy, 50, of  , his driver Senthilkumar, 29, and Sulaiman, a resident of Tiruchy. According to police, residents and passers-by noticed a car roaming around Solipalayam area in a suspicious manner and alerted the 15 Velampalayam police station.
 
 Police officials reached the spot and conducted an inquiry with its three passengers. Not satisfied with their answers, the police checked the car and found bundles of demonetised Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes. They arrested the trio and took them to the police station for questioning.
 
 Ramasamy identified himself as a businessman and told the police that he had Rs 1 crore in demonetised currency notes and wanted to convert them into white money.
 
 “Ramasamy sought the help of his driver who was aware of brokers who would get it done for commission. Senthil contacted Sulaiman and the latter introduced them to Kovilmani, a resident of Trichy.   told them that he knew a broker in Tirupur who will exchange the old currency notes for new ones. So, Ramasamy and Senthil came to Solipalayam in Avinashi in Tirupur,” the police said.
 
 On Sunday evening, Kovilmani met the trio at Solipalayam and tried to strike a deal. After finalising his commission at Rs 10 lakh, Kovilmani left the spot to bring another broker. As the trio was waiting for him, the police took them in custody.
 
 Senior police officials in Tirupur said the money was handed over to the Income Tax department. They also said that a special team was formed to nab Kovilmani. “We will be able to bust the entire racket of brokers involved in getting old currencies exchanged only if we arrest Kovilmani,” the police said.
 
 Meanwhile, the trio was produced before the judicial magistrate court in Tirupur, which remanded them in judicial custody for 15 days. Later, they were lodged in Coimbatore Central Prison.
 
