HYDERABAD: College students will no more be able to tuck into their favourite snacks like samosa, kachori, pizza, noodles on campus as the   (AICTE) has instructed institutions to regulate canteens from selling unhealthy food inside college campus.

 In a circular issued earlier this month, the AICTE has instructed college managements to promote healthy lifestyle among students. “Junk food is causing obesity and other health problems among students and the government is very concerned about the harmful effects on student's health. It is, therefore, suggested that institutions should regulate the food available in the canteen and around the institutions and ensure that junk food is not available to students on campus,“ reads the circular issued by the technical education regulator.
 
 The circular applies to universities and colleges offering degree and diploma programmes in engineering and technology, pharmacy, nursing, management under the jurisdiction of the AICTE.
 
 The circular on junk food has received mixed reactions from college managements.“Junk food is mostly preferred by students as it's easily available at a cheaper price.Even if we regulate canteens within the campus, we cannot stop students from eating junk food as those who want to have it will get it outside college campuses. It would be an exercise in futility,“ said Ch  , dean of students' welfare at a private engineering college. Not just this, the apex regulatory body has also instructed technical institutions to show zero tolerance towards consumption of drugs, smoking and using tobacco products like gutka.
 
 With increasing number of drug abuse cases being reported regularly in colleges, the AICTE has warned college managements to keep an eye on students with such ha bits and initiate immediate action against them. “You all are aware of the harmful effect of smoking cigarettes, consumption of gutka, drugs and other intoxicants on our health. To create awareness about the harmful effect on students' health, it is suggested that a campaign should be launched in the campuses,“ reads the circular.
 
 It may be recalled that the   had issued a similar directive banning fast food in colleges and universities affiliated to it in November 2016.
 
