Panaji: The   ( ) is set for an expansion but not in the manner everyone expected it to be.
 
  Talks of a merger between ISL and I-League, India’s premier football competition, has been widespread for more than a year now. But while everyone believed it would be as simple as handpicking three teams from the   – Bengaluru FC,   and   – the ISL has now invited bids from “interested parties” to enrol and participate in the next edition.
  
  Ten cities have been identified but in reality the focus would be on just two: Bengaluru, where former I-League champions Bengaluru FC are heavily tipped to make the cut and Jamshedpur, where the Tata Group has shown more than just passing interest in owning a franchise.
  
  Should, as expected, both get the nod, the ISL will be a 10-team affair from next season, even though the organizers said in a statement on Thursday that “one or three new winning bidders shall be enrolled and awarded the right to participate in the ISL.”
  
  The decision to invite bids will leave Kolkata giants Mohun Bagan and East Bengal stranded. Cities like Durgapur and Silliguri have in the past hosted the big matches involving the Kolkata teams and the doors for Bagan and East Bengal to bid have been left open. The teams, though, are unlikely to bid, especially since the All India Football Federation (AIFF) has made it clear that the I-League will continue to be India’s official league.
  
  “If Mohun Bagan and East Bengal want to be part of the ISL, they are welcome, but they must have the financial strength,” said a source who is closely tracking the development.
  
  Bengaluru FC, owned by the JSW Group, definitely has the financial muscle to compete in the ISL but sources said they are looking at guarantees – from the AIFF – that ISL participation won’t rob them of the chance to play in Asian competitions, particularly the AFC Champions League play-off and AFC Cup.
  
  “Bengaluru FC are willing to play in the ISL but only if the league gets recognition from AFC,” said the source.
  
  If Bengaluru FC opt to play in the ISL, it would mean curtains in the I-League.
  
  Interestingly, there will not be any additional franchise from the northeast, killing whatever faint hopes I-League’s fairytale champions Aizawl FC may have nursed.
  
  Aizawl, however, will continue participating in the I-League, a competition that the AIFF has continued to maintain enjoys the highest status in Indian football.
  
  The organizers will float the tender through ‘Invitation To Bid’ on Friday. The last day for submission of bids from prospective team owners in 10 cities -- Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Cuttack, Durgapur, Hyderabad, Jamshedpur, Kolkata, Ranchi, Siliguri and Thiruvananthapuram – is May 24.
