PANAJI: Panaji mayor Surendra Furtado and 15 Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) councillors have knocked on the doors of the high court of Bombay at Goa seeking that the Panaji Outline Development Plan (ODP) 2021, which was notified on December 12 by the  , be scrapped as it was passed without CCP’s approval.

 In a writ petition filed before the high court of Bombay at Goa, CCP has stated that the notification of the ODP for Panaji was passed in “great haste” to “benefit a few individuals” ahead of the February 4 state assembly elections.
 
 The writ petition has been filed by 16 councillors, but the names of the BJP-backed panel which is in the opposition do not find mention in the list of petitioners.
 
 “The sequence of events as reflected from the notifications and correspondence exchanged would disclose that the entire exercise carried out is an exercise purportedly carried out in great haste and hurry. Haste and hurry could be attributed to a malafide action,” the petition states.
 
 The Panaji ODP 2021 has proposed a multi-storey car parking facility near   and on the government garage premises along with a redesign of the conservation boundary of the capital.
 
 CCP is upset with the special settlement zones notified by NGPDA in the capital where the floor area ratio (FAR) has been increased to 200. 
 
 The notified ODP also introduces special commercial zones with an FAR of 300. The earlier FAR for settlement zones was 100 for S1 category and 0.80 for S2 category.
 
 “We will see to it that this ODP is scrapped. They want to bring in eight storey buildings, but this ODP will not happen because we will not approve any projects under the new ODP,” mayor Surendra Furtado said.
 
 CCP has argued that the ODP 2021 for Panaji was meant to be prepared in consultation with CCP, which was not done and instead has suggested that NGPDA accepted only Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker’s recommendations. Kuncalienker headed an NGPDA sub-committee which held stakeholders’ meetings.
 
 “The Panaji MLA never said that his priority is the ODP. But after getting elected, he has pushed for the ODP and has been undermining CCP,” Furtado added.
 
 
