Nagpur: On the occasion of Guru Purnima and the first death anniversary of   proponent late Dr Sadhna Nafde, disciples and admirers from across the country came together to pay their guru a befitting homage. 

 A dance programme ‘Smruti Gandh’ was organized by Nirzar Kala Sansthan and Sadhana Foundation at Persistent Hall, IT Park, on Sunday evening.
 
 The event saw nearly 35 students, dancing to the compositions in Nritta, Nritya and bhaav, the elements of Indian classical dance. “I have been organizing ‘Smruti Gandh’, a title that pays tributes to all renowned artistes, since many years. Never thought there will be a day when I’ll be organizing one for my own mother,” said Nafde’s son Sameer, an event manager. Director of Orange City Hospital Vilasini Nair was the chief guest at the event, who recalled the devotion of Sadhana Nafde towards Kathak.
 
 The programme began with Guru Vandana, and was followed by the traditional teen taal. Donning skirts in vivid bright colours and gold coloured dupattas, the beautiful dancers swirled to the bhajan ‘Shyam sunder aaye mere ghar’.
 
 After that, compositions in Dhamar, a taal in Hindustani classical music was presented with dance. Live music was played on stage. 
 
 Then, a tarana was succeeded by ballet, which shares similarity with Kathak. Kalbeliya, a folk dance of Rajasthan was also presented on stage.
 
 Three bhajans by sant Dyaneshwar, where the sant praises Lord Krishna through the voice of a gopi and are examples of ‘bhaav anga’, were presented. The bhajan Dhanu Waje talks about gopi who doesn’t get to meet Krishna, while Awachita Parimalu shows that gopi is delighted on finally getting to meet her lord. ‘Aji soniya cha dinu’ bhajan shows how the gopi finally gets to meet Lord Krishna.
 
 The programme was concluded by the bhajan ‘Gajan sadan tejo maya’.
 
 Born in Gwalior, Nafde learnt Kathak at a very tender age under the tutelage of Late Bapusaheb Shinde, a disciple of Late Lachhu Maharaj. She passed away on July 3 last year. Nirzar was formed by Nafde in 1982.
 
  She is remembered for her stunning performance at the All India Classical Dance competition organized by Kala Parishad. From 1960 to 1970, she performed regularly at Republic-Day functions in Delhi and Ujjain.
 
 
