NEW DELHI: A day after PM   admonished BJP MPs for poor presence in   and  , attendance in the treasury benches was high in both Houses on Wednesday morning though the enthusiasm waned in the post-lunch session that is often marked by a low presence of MPs.

 The PM's remarks at the BJP parliamentary party meeting on Tuesday came after questions went unanswered in the Rajya Sabha on Monday due to the absence of MPs and ministers. Usually five-six questions are taken up, but absent MPs meant more than a dozen came up.Embarrassingly , ministers were not present either as they did not anticipate that more than half a dozen questions would be taken up.
 
 It was a high-attendance question hour in Lok Sabha, with BJP MPs filing in. The presence of Modi as it was the PM's day for Question Hour, ensured even reluctant MPs turned up and followed House proceedings in rapt attention.
 
 But soon after Modi left, the sombre and orderly mood of the House gave way to a chirpy exchange of greetings and friendly banter among MPs, turning up the decibel levels. “What is happening? Is this a school?“ asked Speaker  , irked by noise as members moved out of their seats to meet and crowded the aisles. As MPs failed to pay aisles. As MPs failed t heed, she asked them in a sterner voice to remain silent and restore order in the House.
 
 The attendance levels were keenly watched as Modi had even suggested he could summon them anytime by sending a chit time by sending a chit for them or get his aides to seek them out. “I can do everything for you, but I cannot mark your attendance. You will have to physically mark your attend ance in the House,“ he had told the BJP parliamentary party meeting on Tuesday .
 
 With a whip in place ruling party MPs were in good num ber during the finance minis ter's reply on the finance bill and its passing. PM was also in the House during the period. The number of ruling party members in the House increased from 55 at 2.15pm to 240 during 4.30pm 5.42pm. There were just 55 ruling party MPs and 13 opposition MPs at 2.15pm. At 3.15pm the number of BJP MPs rose to 75 and the opposition came down to six. The attendance of mem bers from treasury benches was high in both sessions of Rajya Sabha. But in post-lunch session BJP member   was missing.While claiming that EVMs can be hacked during a debate on electoral reforms, BSP member S C Mishra pointed out on several occasions that Swamy , on whose petition Supreme Court had directed the EC to introduce the paper trail in EVMs, was not present. The strong presence of ruling party MPs, however, helped them to vigorously counter united opposition's allegation of EVM tampering during the recent assembly elections in UP.
 
