GURUGRAM: Residents of   1 have been facing acute water shortage for the last 4-5 days, after power connection of 11 borewells were disconnected. While residents alleged power was disconnected as the the maintenance company, Profac, had not paid up electricity bills, Profac told TOI there is a shortage of supply by  .

 TOI found on Monday that water supply in all blocks of Sushant Lok 1 have been hit. As Huda water supply meets only 50% of their demand, the area is dependent on borewells for the balance. Block C in particular has been severely affected, with none of the four borewells in it working, while blocks B, C1 and C2 in a somewhat better condition with a few borewells working in each. Blocks A and D are the least affected. 
 
 “We are completely at the mercy of the maintenance company. Despite paying high maintenance charges, we’re forced to spend on water tankers,” said Sudhir Sachdeva, a resident of Block C. He claimed the maintenance agency has Rs 70 lakh in unpaid electricity bills.
 
 Another resident Nishi Karnani said, “The maintenance agency has not been paying electricity bills for a year. Every time the power line is disconnected, it makes partial payment to get the supply restored. But interest is also accruing on the pending bill. And Block C residents are made to suffer the most, despite the area hosting the maximum number of families.”
 
 “Bills were unpaid, despite repeated reminders to the maintenance company. It has been the case for the past 8-9 months. We had no option but to disconnect connection of a few borewells,” said a Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) official.
 
 Dr Nagpal, the president of  , said, “There is already a shortage of water as Huda is shifting its master water pipeline. But this was expected, and was communicated in time by the development authority to residents. The disconnection of   to some borewells has compounded the problem in certain areas. Also, the water table in the society has been falling, and rendered many borewells defunct. But we don’t have permission to re-bore or dig new borewells.” 
 
 Ravi Siani, general manager (facilities) at Profac, blamed Huda's pipeline shifting exercise for the water shortage. “Huda is shifting the pipeline to make way for the construction of underpases on NH-8. This led to the shortage. There might be some pending bills, but all borewells in the society are working fine.”
 
 
