LUCKNOW: Two youths were nabbed by police for allegedly beating to death a two-year-old bull calf in Chhota Bazar area of   on Monday. Veterinary report released on Monday night, however, showed that the calf died of   and no external injury was found.

 The photo of the dead calf went viral leading to   on Sunday night, following which heavy posse of police was deployed. Shops and establishments remained closed on Monday too. 
 
 Though no new clashes or protests were reported, a company of PAC (Police Armed Constabulary) was deployed along with personnel of three police stations and two inspectors each from Unnao, Barabanki and Rae Bareli were stationed in the area.
 
 Chief veterinary officer Dr Tej Yadav said the team which examined the carcass did not find any external injuries and concluded that the calf died of cardio-respiratory failure. It was very weak and was found to have suffered from   and some other ailments. 
 
 Dr Nagendra told TOI that no contusions were found on the carcass and the skin was intact. He also said congestion in lungs and plural effusions were symptoms of pneumonia in the bull-calf. He added that it was weak and had not eaten food for many weeks. Undigested food particles were found in the stomach.
 
 Earlier, during the day, brothers Atif and Firoz, residents of Saadatganj were arrested from Kaiserbagh bus-stop. Police claimed they were trying to flee to Barabanki.
 
 Saadatganj police station officer Samar Yadav told TOI that the duo confessed to beating up the calf with a stick as it had hurt their little brother while he was playing outside. But they said they were sorry after flogging the animal. Atif said it was not done deliberately, and that they only wanted to scare the calf away.
 
 Yadav said that brothers were booked under the charges of causing mischief by killing or maiming cattle and section 11 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. 
 
 The FIR was registered on the complaint of Prem Shankar Gupta, an office-bearer of a Hindu outfit on Sunday.
 
 On Monday, 50 small and medium size shops in the area remained shut. General merchant Adil, said, “The administration must curb and keep a strong vigil over posts on social media that trigger communal discord.”
 
 Jeweller Manu Jain, said Lucknow is known for communal amity and people should not be swayed by such petty issues.
 
 Owner of an electric-goods shop Ajit Sen said that during the time the issue should have been sorted out among residents and without involvement of police. “There was no attempt to slaughter the cow deliberately,” said Sen.
 
 ASP (West) Jaiprakash said tension had gripped and as a precautionary measure shops were closed in the area. “After the arrest of brothers, we will gradually relax the force,” said police. 
 
