NEW DELHI: The government said on Wednesday that it is implementing eight anti-graft measures as part of its policy of `zero tolerance' against corruption.

 “The central government is fully alive and committed to implement its policy of `zero tolerance against corruption' and has taken several measures to combat corruption and improve functioning of the government,“ Union minister of state for personnel, public grievances and pensions   said in a written reply in the  .
 
 He said the steps “inter alia“ include Right to Information (RTI) Act, inclusion of integrity pact in major purchases, ratification of   Convention against Corruption, placing of assets of government officers in public domain, setting up of additional special CBI courts, introduction of e-governance and direct benefit scheme.
 
 A special investigation team (SIT) has already been formed on black money and foreign junkets of government officials on public money have been stopped.
 
 Some of the steps cited by the government were initially started by the former UPA government during its two terms between 2004 and 2014.However, ironically UPA faced allegations of corruption and lost the 2014 polls.
 
 The UPA enacted RTI Act ) in 2005 which allowed people to get information from a public office on payment of Rs 10 without giving any reason.
 
 The   had recommended the organisations to adopt integrity pact in major procurement activities in 2007.
 
 The United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) was ratified in 2011. The details of immovable assets of group A officers started to be put in public domain as per orders of the Government in 2011.
 
 The UPA government had set up 71 additional special courts for CBI cases in the country of which 54 became functional between 2009 and 2011.
 
 The e-governance and simplification of procedure and systems was initiated in National e-Governance Action Plan (NeGP) sanctioned in 2006. The program is now subsumed under  .
 
 The Direct Benefit Transfer initiative was started on January 1, 2013.
 
 Government officials said that they strengthened all these programmes with oversight and efficiency.
 
