PATNA: The state   brass on Sunday launched a scathing attack on chief minister (CM)  , holding him responsible for the boat mishap here that claimed 24 lives. A section of the party’s brass even demanded CM’s resignation on moral ground, alleging “utter negligence” on the part of the administration with regard to crowd management during the Makar Sankranti celebrations.

 The BJP netas said an advertisement issued by the government had announced facilitation of “free” journey by boat and steamer to the other side of the Ganga where kite flying and fun games at Disney Land had also been organised on the sandy bed, but no carefully planned arrangement had been made for crowd management and return journey of revellers. 
 
 However, holding a different view, Union law minister Ravishankar Prasad said, “I will urge the CM to fix responsibility on officials for the major boat mishap.” Earlier in the day, Prasad visited the post mortem room and also interacted with attendants of the boat mishap survivors at the emergency ward of Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH). The minister later visited Gandhi Ghat near   (NIT) where the incident occurred. 
 
 BJP’s state chief Nityanand Rai, former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and the party’s chief whip in the state assembly   also visited PMCH and Gandhi Ghat on Sunday. Modi said the administration did not allow Rai to go to the other side of the river where the mishap had occurred.
 
 Former state health minister and BJP’s Buxar MP Ashwini Kumar Choubey said he was present at the PMCH mortuary on Saturday night, helping the attendants of the boat mishap victims, including one from his Buxar parliamentary constituency.
 
 “The state government has refused to take lessons from the past two major disasters that occurred in Patna. CM Nitish Kumar should take responsibility for Saturday’s boat mishap,” Modi said, adding, “If the CM has taken credit for successful organisation of Prakashotsava and Kalchakra, he should also take responsibility for the boat mishap. The responsibility should not be shifted and fixed on the officials, or any other person.”
 
 As to the demand for CM’s resignation, Modi said the CM should first take responsibility for the boat mishap. He, however, added that both CM and chief secretary had made security reviews for the Prakashotsava and Kalchakra, but the security concerns for “Hindu festival” had been left “on the mercy of God.” 
 
 In contrast, Choubey insisted on CM’s resignation on moral ground. “The mishap was the result of negligence. No minister was present even at PMCH at night to build confidence of the attendants of the survivors,” Choubey said. 
 
 
