BENGALURU: Working on his caste arithmetic ahead of the 2018 elections, CM Siddaramaiah has started wooing the fragmented   with assurances of granting land and increasing financial aid to it.

 The community (comprising goldsmiths, blacksmiths, bronze artisans, carpenters and stone masons) had been obscure on the state's political map till recently. But the CM has put the spotlight on the community by stating “it should be an integral part of the mainstream society“, and his government will do everything for them.
 
 So, why is Siddaramaiah suddenly so upbeat about this community? Sources said it is part of a strategy geared at consolidating the Ahinda votes. Unlike other leaders who ignored the Vishwakarma community , Siddaramaiah viewed it as a potent political force. His yet-to-be-revealed caste census report edly pegs the Vishwakarma population in the state at around 15 lakh. This is quite a huge number and when added to the other backward classes' category, the overall number goes up significantly. Realizing there is no platform for community members to hone their professional skills, Siddaramaiah said his government will work towards opening an exclusive university for youngsters of the community .
 
 The move has jolted the opposition BJP and JD(S).The BJP had been riding high on the induction of Vishwakarma community leader and jeweller K P Nanjundi, who was miffed with the Congress for not making him a member of the legislative council, and joined the BJP .
 
 Sources in the BJP said: “Siddaramaiah's assurances to the community is aimed at neutralizing Nanjundi who has been trying to provoke the community against the Congress. Siddaramaiah is only indulging in thin-slicing communiities for his political gains.“ JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda expressed fears over promises being made to the community and said it was he and his son   who worked for the community.
 
 
 
 
 A complaint was filed against chief minister Siddaramaiah on Monday to   and the   (ACB), accusing him of granting permission to a stone-crushing unit of a JD(S) MP to take up stone quarrying in a deemed forest area. The complaint was filed by RTI activist Ravindra Kallahalli who alleged that the mines and geology department, on Siddaramaiah's direction, granted 1,623 acres at Survey No. 1 at Baby Hill, a deemed forest area in Pandavapura, to a stonecrushing unit jointly owned by Mandya MP C Puttaraju and his nephews.
 
