LUCKNOW: Power consumers might be in for partial respite as far as the proposed 22.6% hike in power tariff is concerned after   (UPPCL) reduced its annual revenue requirement (ARR) by around Rs 5,000 crore for financial year 2017-18. The ARR document filed by the   in August had mentioned revenue requirement of over Rs 70,000 crore. This has now been revised to just over Rs 66,000 crore.

 The   (UPERC), which received the fresh ARR on Monday , is learnt to be considering to pass on the benefit to domestic consumers in urban as well as rural areas.UPERC sources said while the proposed hike in power tariff up to 300 units may not be changed, there could be some relief for those consuming between 301and 500 units. Under the 301-500 unit consumption slab, the UPPCL had suggested an increase from Rs 5.60unit in 2016-17 to Rs 6.20 unit as per the new ARR. The increase may now be limited to Rs 6 per unit, UPERC sources said.
 
 Rural consumers, however, may be in for more relief with the commission contemplating to lessen the increase in per-unit charge for metered consumers in villages. UPPCL had proposed hike for rural domestic consumers from Rs 2.20 to Rs 3.90 per unit.The raise may now be restricted to Rs 3 only , sources in the commission said. UPERC chairman   said the idea is to rationalise the tariff structure so that consumers are spared a tariff shock and at the same time UPPCL does not face financial burden in supply power to consumers. He added that despite reduced ARR by UPPCL, revenue gap to the tune of more than Rs 7,000 crore remains.“The burgeoning gap may only push the UPPCL into deeper financial distress, affecting eventually power supply to all consumers,“ he said.
 
 “It is the honest consumer who pays for the callous functioning of UPPCL,“ said president of UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad, A K Verma.
 
 
 
 
 UP government announced on Monday it will double the penalty on consumers caught pilfering electricity. So far, a penalty is slapped on a consumer based on an assessment of power consumption over a period of one year. The penalty assessment will now be based on two years.
 
 The decision was taken at a meeting of higher authorities of power department with their counterparts in the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) on Monday. UPERC chairman S K Agarwal told TOI that the commission has decided to change the distribution code to pave way for higher penalty on power consumers. Sources said UPPCL too had petitioned the commission seeking to double the penalty on those engaged in power pilferage. High line losses of around 31% have posed challenge to the state government. 
 
