NAGPUR: The seventh edition of   will open at Deekshabhoomi on February 22 with a slew of events designed to showcase Buddhist philosophy and also present its imprints on various mediums like art, cinema and music. Addressing the media on Sunday, Dhammachari Rutayush, chairman of   which has organized the festival, said that this year China is a co-organizer and there will be many artists from the country taking part.

 “A group of 83 artistes is coming from China to participate in the festival. Of these 43 artistes would be performing,” Rutayush said. The highlight of their performance will be   in which the artistes will show how one can meditate even while having tea.
 
 An international film festival in association with National Archives of India will also be held from February 23-26. Eleven films and documentaries including ‘Valley of Flowers’ and ‘Samsara’ made by French filmmaker Pan Nalin will be shown at the festival. ‘Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’ by  , ‘Gautama the Buddha’ and a Punjabi movie ‘Chamm’ made by Rajiv Kumar will also be screened at the auditorium located at Deekshabhoomi.
 
 An art exhibition featuring art work of Chinese artist Fu Chunlin along with other Indian painters will also be a part of the festival. “The Ratnavali Lecture series will have speakers from India and abroad who would speak on the works and philosophies of  , Jyotiba Fule and Tathagat Buddha as Babasaheb considered all three to be his spiritual gurus,” Rutayush said. There will also be workshops on entrepreneurship guidance, mind and motivation and meditation.
 
 The festival will also feature a play on Kabir presented by Sanjay Jivane of Buddhist Theatre Nagpur on February 24. “Woman dada Kardak was a famous writer of songs on the Buddhist philosophy. But his ghazals are lesser known. Sanjay Mohad from Aurangabad will present some of his ghazals on February 24,” Rutayush informed.
 
 The entry to the festival is free and all events will be held at Deekshabhoomi.
 
 CULTURAL PROGS
 
 Feb 23: Drama on Sant Kabir (7.30pm-9.30pm)
 
 Feb 24: Samyak Ghazal Prog (7.30pm-9.30pm)
 
 Feb 25: Chan Tea Musical (6.30pm-9.30pm)
 
 Feb 25: Chan Tea Musical (6.30pm-9.30pm)
 
 (Besides, Film Fest will be held from Feb 23 to 26 (11am to 5pm), Expo of Chinese and Indian Artistes (11am to 10pm); Ratnavali Lecture series (Feb 23-25 6pm-7.30pm and workshops from Feb 23 to 26 12.30pm to 5pm)
 
