JAIPUR: At   near Harmada, about 20 km from Jaipur, there are chances that even the villagers you ask cannot guide you to the ruins of the dam. It was only the third person TOI asked who could accurately point to the site of the ruins. Once you get there, however, the view is fascinating. If you get atop the boundary wall, you can see the structure of the dam in two storeys – and beneath these, the rocks are hewn to allow the flow of water. Surprisingly, the edges of the rocks are still quite jagged – no evidence of  .

 One can descend down the face of the dam and peer into the valve mechanism that must have lifted the water – a well about 30 feet in depth, with an iron contraption that still remains. If you look ahead, for about three kilometres, as far as the eye can see, is flat land, bounded by a curve of the Aravallis. The Delhi Bypass Road now cuts through the flat surface of what could well have been the floor of this dam’s reservoir.
 
 Dinesh Bhardwaj, a resident of the area, told TOI, “The sand is being mined out leaving pits about eight feet deep. People have begun farming in what used to be the dam’s reservoir. The earth here has soaked in water for generations, so you can see that the crops are doing quite well.”
 
 One can walk through the cavernous tunnel through which water might once have flowed. On the face of the dam’s wall, one can see the square holes through which the overflow water was allowed to pass. Emerging on the other side, one can see large trees, now as good as dead. “Perhaps these are trees with deep roots, and now they have dried as the water table has shrunk,” Bhardwaj explained.
 
 Nainu Ram, 60, from the nearby   says the last time he remembers water in the dam was during the floods of 1981. “That year, the water overflowed. After that, the rains just dried up and we now pump underground water,” he said.
 
 “At least 52,000 bighas – that was the spread of the reservoir of the dam. The water from here would flow further down, meeting the dam at Kukas and also merging with the Banas,” Ram says.
 
 No details of the history of the dam were available from either the ASI or the state archaeology department. Prince Kumar of the state archaeology department said, “This dam is not among the sites we protect. If you could please send me photographs, I could visit the site and try to understand when it was constructed.”
 
