NEW DELHI: Pakistan Prime Minister  's foreign affairs adviser   today claimed that the   ( ) hasn't given any order regarding consular access for Indian national  . 

 "Wrong to say Pakistan lost at ICJ, court stayed execution, didn't order consular access to Jadhav," Aziz told reporters in Islamabad.
 
 "It was a consensus decision to appoint Khawar Qureshi as our lawyer. Everyone was satisfied with his arguments. Some are saying that we had 90 minutes, why we used only 50 - a substantive argument can be given in only 10 minutes," Aziz said.
 
 "It wasn't possible for Pakistan to appoint an ad hoc judge in such a short time. Pakistan had only five days to prepare its case," he said. 
 
 He, however, added that his country will further strengthen its legal team and that it will go forward into the case with full preparation.
 
 "We will go with a strong team in the next hearing," Aziz added.
 
 
 
 
 "Jadhav was sentenced according to the laws of Pakistan after he admitted to entering the country on fake passport and involvement in terror activities," Aziz asserted. 
 
 On Thursday, the 
  of Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav until it rules on the merits of the case.
 
 The ICJ ruled that there is the possibility of "irrevocable prejudice to the rights of Jadhav. In its plea to the court, India had expressed the fear that Jadhav might be executed even while the hearing at the ICJ was on.
 
 "Without prejudging the result, the ICJ considers that the risk or irreparable prejudice, the mere fact that Jadhav is under such a sentence and might be executed, is sufficient to demonstrate such a risk. There is considerable uncertainty as to when decision on any appeal is rendered or when Jadhav will be executed," said ICJ President Judge Ronny Abraham.
 
 Pakistan cannot execute Indian national Jadhav until it makes a final decision in the proceedings of the case, the ICJ said. It added that it indeed has jurisdiction in the case, superseding a 2008 agreement between India and Pakistan.
 
 The ICJ had also said that its ruling is binding.
 
 
