CHANDIGARH: Gian Sagar Hospital has not given wages to its employees for more than six months--and more than 1,600 students are going to pay for it.
While the examinations are coming up at the medical college, most of the   is suspended and the classes are empty . The students and their parents seek a permanent solution to the problem they face every year. But campus seemed a ghost village like this time. The
 emergency, outpatient department (OPD), pharmacy , classrooms, mess, everything is shut. Students have deserted the hostel and only a handful of employees remain in there.
 
 The college has lost its water and electricity connections due to non-payment of bills. MBBS first-year student Rohit Garg said “We need urgent classes. We are more than 40 days behind schedule already, and it will affect our scores in the examinations". Another medical student regretted the suspension of teaching when their examinations were approaching and a lot of syllabus remained to be covered.
 
  An MBBS student said “The college makes Rs 5 lakh a year from each government quota seat and Rs 11 lakh from every management-quota spot but still plays with our career. Nothing is out of the government's jurisdiction, if it has the will to help us. If it can make laws to curb traffic offence and murder, why can't it shift us". Last July, hundreds of students and their parents had joined the teachers in demanding that the college management be sacked and students moved to a college where they can get regular education and save a year.
 
 In March 2016, on a similar appeal from the parents of the students of Pathankot's Chintpurni Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), 141 students were adjusted in eight medical colleges until the matter was pending with the   The students with 75% attendance are eligible to appear for examinations. Gurpreet Singh, whose son studies in   said “The state government should intervene to either shift the students or takeover the college administration".
 
 After consulting their seniors who have graduated, the students have written to the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MoHRD) and the Medical Council of India (MCI) about the situation and pleaded with them to intervene. Members of the   said they would not resume duty unless they get salaries for up to March and an assurance of  
 
