VISAKHAPATNAM: With the  , the   has geared up to address the usual ailments, especially those of vector-borne diseases. An action plan has been drawn up accordingly to tackle malaria, dengue and other mosquito-borne diseases, especially in vulnerable pockets of the state.

 The four north coastal Andhra districts including the Agency areas are considered most vulnerable to vector-borne diseases. Even though incidences of vector-borne diseases have slightly come down in Vizag, it’s on the rise in the districts of Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram. A review meet was held this week and spraying activities would commence from mid-April.
 
 Dr G Savitri, joint director, communicable diseases, Directorate of Health, said, “The district medical and health officials (DMHOs) of each district have been asked to strengthen surveillance activities with special focus on high risk areas, both in the hills and foothills. Medical officers and paramedics have been trained regarding prevention and control and checking transmission of the causative agent. Drugs, insecticides, larvicides and other logistics are being kept in place. Around 3.5 lakh of long lasting insecticidal nets were distributed in high risk areas last year. Awareness activities are also going on regarding personal protection against vector-borne diseases.”
 
 Vizag district malaria officer  , said, “Under the directions of DMHO Dr J Sarojini , we have planned indoor residual spraying from April 15, anti-larval operations, which is to be undertaken by grama panchayats, and larvicides. Around 1.28 lakh mosquito nets have been distributed in 1450 villages in Vizag district, especially in the Agency areas. We are now in the process of identifying high risk villages and awareness is being generated through IEC (Information, Education, Communication) activities. On the third Saturday of every month, ‘domalapai dandayatra’ (counter-attack mosquitoes) in the form of awareness rallies will be held by health staff and school children in every village.”
 
 Besides, medical camps will be held in high risk villages and lab technicians, ambulances and other logistics are to be positioned in primary health centres and community health centres. 
 
 TAKING MEASURES
 
 Four north coastal districts considered most vulnerable to vector-borne diseases
 
 Incidences on the rise in Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram
 
 Spraying activities to commence from mid-April
 
 Medical camps to be held in high risk villages 
 
 Lab technicians, ambulances to be positioned in primary health centres and community health centres 
 
 
