BARNALA: Two followers of a dera died and six others were injured on Friday morning as two groups clashed to control the shrine in Tapa town of   Police said the group, which has the possession of the Parmanand  ,  , killing two persons identified as  , 38, and Gulab Dass, 40. Tension prevailed in the town after the killings.

 The dera owns over 100 acres of farmland near Tapa, which is the bone of contention between the two groups. Sources said that Mahant Parmanand was heading the sect at Tapa till 1999. As he was unmarried, he had handed over the seat to his relative Gopal Dass before his death.
 
 One of Parmanand’s disciples Rameshwar Dass, who was also distantly related to him and was living in the dera premises, didn’t like the control of the sect going to Gopal. In 2007, Rameshwar gained control of the dera by ejecting Gopal.
 
 Gopal approached the court after that. A Barnala court on March 30, 2017, decided the case in his favour. Gopal and his brother Laxmi Narain Dass took the court order to take control of the dera premises on Friday.
 
 Police said that when Gopal, Laxmi and others went to take possession of the sect and asked Rameshwar to allow them to hold aarti, violence broke out.
 
 Both sides indulged in stone pelting first. Members of the Rameshwar’s group took out weapons and fired at their opponents group. Police said shots were fired from .12 bore and .32 bore pistols that belonged to the dera.
 
 Laxmi died on the spot in the firing whereas Gulab died on way to the hospital. Ram Dayal, Krishan Dass, Raghbir Dass, Nikka Ram, Mehnga Ram and Madho Dass sustained injuries.
 
 Demanding immediate arrest of the accused, Gopal’s group members carried out a protest march in the town. Heavy police force was deployed in Tapa to prevent the situation from turning worse.
 
 Barnala SSP Baljot Singh Rathore said, “On the complaint of Gopal Dass, case has been registered for murder, attempt to murder and the Arms Act against Rameshwar Dass, Bhuvneshwar Dass, Hemant Kumar, Raghunandan Dass, Varinder Kumar,  , Dayal Dass, Gobind Dass and Kapil Kumar. Rameshwar and Bhuvneshwar have been arrested.”
 
 The SSP added that Tapa SHO Sanjiv Singla had been placed under suspension as Gopal complained that he did not listened to them to help take possession of the dera despite the court orders.
 
