COIMBATORE: The   (TNAU) and an Ayurveda and tribal medicine expert have joined hands to increase  , a medicinal plant believed to be effective in treating type 2 diabetes, obesity and related complications. Saplings of the plant, native to Salem in Tamil Nadu, will be multiplied by the university and given to tribals for farming in the hilly regions of the state. The product will also be bought back by pharmaceutical companies through TNAU.

 Salacia Oblonga, also called Ponkoranti, is a medicinal herb believed to be native to India and Sri Lanka. It is used as a treatment for type 2 diabetes in Ayurveda because it contains a molecule called Salacinol, which prevents the body from absorbing the sugar from foods consumed. 
 
 Recently, professor G P Dubey won an international patent for the herb proving that it originated in India, Salem district in Tamil Nadu to be specific. 
 
 “I started the research into the plant when I heard a Chinese company applying to patent it. Then we managed to prove it through DNA finger printing and evidence in Tamil literature,” said professor Dubey. “There are several species, but we now have to pick the best one for mass propagation and commercial production, because it’s market worth is $1.5 billion to $3 billion globally every year,” he said
 
 However, medicinal plant experts say that unfortunately Salacia or Ponkoranti is also slowly becoming an endangered and rare species. 
 
 “We are now banned from picking any of these medicinal plants from the wild and the availability of Salacia outside reserve forests is becoming rare, because it takes three years to mature and be ready for harvest,” said the head of the department of medicinal plants, TNAU, K Rajamani. 
 
 “So, professor Dubey has approached us to try multiplying the Salacia plant through tissue culture, so we can increase production and sell it to Ayurveda and pharmaceutical companies for a nominal cost. He has also insisted that it be multiplied with the help of tribal farmers,” he said.
 
 TNAU is now working out a plan to map out the ecological hotspots across the state and country for the Salacia species. “We need to pick out as many different specimens of the Salacia, especially Salacia Oblonga, get it first authenticated by the Botanical Survey of India (BSI) authorities,” said Rajamani. 
 
 Though the plant originated in Salem, it is found in seven other states in the country, including Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Chattisgarh. “We will then do a genetic analysis to understand which of them contains the highest amount of Salacinol, and mass propagate them through saplings, seeds or seedlings, whichever is most suitable to the species,” he said.
 
 Once this stage is done, the university will tie up with a group of tribal farmers to farm the medicinal plants in the hills and with a few pharmaceutical companies who will verify the product and buy it back after harvest. 
 
 “Salacia is a plant that primarily grows in dry hills and Dubey who is an expert in tribal medicine insists that tribals should benefit from it,” said TNAU vice-chancellor K Ramasamy. 
 
 “We will sell it to companies for a nominal cost and transfer the benefits wholly to the tribal farmers,” he said. “This medicine is mostly grown in the eastern and western ghats and its knowledge is derived from the tribes, who knew its properties and values much before we did,” said Dubey. 
 
