BENGALURU: In a recent case of  , Bengaluru police brought in support staff from a local non-governmental organisation to talk to the girl so that she wouldn't be fearful of a burly man grilling her.

 However, the support staff was not gentle and asked direct questions that scared the girl. Despite this, the police tried to file a case but it eventually fell through due to lack of strong evidence for prosecution. Sadly, the accused went scot free.
 
 According to the   (KSCRPC), the conviction rate of accused in cases filed under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) is just 14%. “The prime reason for this abysmal conviction rate is the lack of coordi nation between departments involved in handling the case,“ said KSCRPC chairperson Kripa Alva.
 
 At least seven agencies are involved in every case of child abuse. To remove the disconnect between departments, the stakeholders, along with KSCRPC, have decided to create a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to specifically deal with Pocso cases. Seven agencies involved in child abuse cases include child wel fare committee, the deputy com missioner of the   committee, child helpline, medical examiners, police, counsellors, child helpers and the department of public prosecution.
 
 Alva said a committee has been formed under retired high court judge Justice AV Chandrashekara to prepare the SOP and ensure there's no delay or confusion in dealing with child abuse cases.
 
 “Last year, a delegation from Ba varia, Germany, came to Bengaluru and during our interaction, we were told there was 90% conviction there.It was primarily to do with the SOP in place and timely inter-departmental co-operation,“ said Alva.
 
 She said the committee will take at least a month to prepare the SOP and all stakeholders have been consulted. The police tried to draft an SOP but it was shelved.
 
 While welcoming an SOP, Bengaluru city police commissioner   said no invitation for discussing it has reached him. He said a detailed SOP for dealing with Pocso cases is embedded in the Act itself and it's being followed.
 
 “If there's another SOP being prepared, with proper government approvals, we'll welcome it,“ he said. Sood said in most cases, while the police acts as a reactionary force, prevention is not in their hands. “An SOP will ease a lot of problems,“ he said. Director for Child Rights Trust G Nagasimha Rao said a child abuse case has complexities and sensitisation of people should be at the top of the list. “From the manner in which a child needs to be approached to proper sections to be invoked under Pocps, all need to be spelt out clearly,“ he said.
 
 Times View
 
 Inspired by the Bavarian model of handling child abuse cases, the Standard Operating Procedure being drafted by the Karnataka State Child Rights Protection Commission will hopefully ensure a higher conviction rate than the dismal 14%. These cases should be dealt with an iron hand and speedily too so that the punishment serves as a strong deterrent. All stakeholders involved should work overtime to ensure the SOP is put in place at the earliest.
 
