JAIPUR: Demonetization may have choked businesses whose fuel for growth was cash but it has come as a boon for others. Autolite (India) Pvt Ltd, which makes various kinds of head and fog lamps for cars said sales for its after-market products have zoomed 20% in November, a stellar growth compared to the subdued demand that prevailed most of 2016.

 “There are lot of copycat companies in the after-market segment producing counterfeit products or knock-offs. Cash is the main pillar of their business. Demonetization dealt a severe blow to them as their transactions came to a halt due to cash crunch. A significant portion of that demand got diverted to organized players. That’s how we were also benefited,” said Adarsh Mahipal Gupta, director of Autolite (India) Pvt Ltd.
 
 Similarly, for the organized players in PVC product industry that makes a wide range of products, from children’s toys to building materials to food packaging, the benefits go far beyond the sales boost.
 
 Digvijay Dhabriya, managing director of Dhabriya Polywood, said that the sales of the company in November grew 10% which a far cry compared to performances witnessed in other months of the year.
 
 “70% of PVC industry is in the unorganized segment which bore the maximum brunt of demonetization as cash dried up in the system. That was one of the reasons why we had a stellar growth in November. Because of the competition from the unorganized sector that enjoyed several unjustified advantages, attention to innovation and product quality did not find priority. Hope, the situation will change for the better,” said Dhabriya.
 
 But the cash crunch has roiled many small and medium sector companies that kept some portion of their transaction off the records to avoid tax. Many of their employees were also kept off the payrolls for not having the obligation to contribute to their EPF or ESI. These employers paid the employees in cash and kept the volume of production at an artificial lower level.
 
 Now to show the completely volume of production and the full workforce on books would mean attracting the attention of the tax authorities. On the other hand, they cannot reduce the volume as it will kill the financial viability of their operations.
 
 “For such companies which kept a significant portion of their business off the books, it would be a catch-22 situation. Even during the slowdown, they did not get impacted as much because they could avoid tax and also did not have the burden of contributing to EPF and ESI. Now for them to show up everything on the books will not escape the eyes of the tax authorities,” said an entrepreneur preferring anonymity.
 
 He said that only way left for them, which some of them are trying to do, is to gradually bring their full employees on the payroll while showing incremental growth in production volume.
 
 
