City’s traffic is something that everybody dreads. The frustration multiplies for the   who have to go through it on a daily basis. But at least   gets a great perk out of his profession - he gets celebrities as his passengers. 

 While he struggles to manage the bus through the horrific traffic, he has been the go-to person when the VVIPs need to use the BMTC services.
 
 49-year-old Syed Nurulla, a BMTC bus driver has become one of the preferred drivers for the VIPs, including politicians and bureaucrats, of the state.
 
 With zero negative remarks and no records of accidents, Syed has been able to carry this legacy with diligence. Speaking to Bangalore Mirror, he says, “I am happy that I am one of the drivers to take VIPs and VVIPs around the city. I feel proud of my profession and the fact that the VIPs and VVIPs choose BMTC a personal vehicle.”
 
 And in return, he has been a treat for the commuters too. He shares his secret that helped him bag this position. “I have been very patient have always maintain my cool.
 
 May be that is one of the reasons why I am called each time a VIPs need to commute.”
 
 But it all comes with a price. “There have been occasions when Syed had to work late nights. Evidently, he never hesitated. “There have been occasions when I used to drop IAS and IPS officers after their late night meetings. I did not bother about time and I still continued to serve the people in my own way. Sometimes, we as drivers should not be bound to timings. This is our work and we should feel privileged to do so.”
 
 His list is decorated with names like Sadananda Gowda, Jagadish Shettar, Yeddyurappa and Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah.
 
 Syed had the company of CM Siddaramaiah for 37 times and he rates it to be one of the best experiences of his life. “He gave me a pat on my back each time I him. It is a moment of pride for me. In my 6 years of service, almost everyone has been kind enough to me.”
 
 Not just politicians, Syed has also served celebrities like Hrithik Roshan and Virat Kohli. “I recently met   and took a selfie with him. He was very humble and kind to me,” he said.
 
 While he seems to be a man who can keep of his cool,   has managed to mess with his head too.
 
 Syed started his career with BMTC in the year 1994 when reaching one end of the to another wasn’t a hassle. But things have changed drastically and like everyone else, Syed is also disappointed.
 
 “Lately, traffic mess that I am seeing in the city is something that is so tough to adopt. I urge the public to follow rules and adopt public transport or try carpool. I often see cars with one person in it. I guess, if we start carpooling and follow lane discipline, our traffic problems will be sought,” he said.
 
 Syed, who drives the Volvo buses on the ITPL route, says, “There was a time when we used to cover the city in one hour. These days it is taking close to 1-2 hours to just go on a single route. At times, I lose my patience when I see my own colleagues driving too fast and trying to be ahead of other buses. I don’t find any logic in it. All the collected money goes to BMTC itself. Why is there a competition among the drivers? One day you might generate a thousand more or less, but we all work for the same unit.”
 
