Panaji: Stressing that public statements made by MLAs on availability of   were lowering the morale of the police, chief minister Manohar  , on Wednesday, asked ruling coalition MLAs and ministers to inform him about leads related to drug trafficking.

 In a letter to coalition MLAs, Parrikar said making public statements on police-drug mafia nexus does not help in resolving the issue and instead “criminals are made alert by such statements”. 
 
 Referring to public statements made by some MLAs regarding availability of drugs, and a nexus between drugs peddlers and police officials, he said that such statements lead to “dampening of the morale of the police force and unwarranted sensationalism”.
 
 Parrikar said that “given the sensitive nature of the issue and firm resolution of the state to make Goa a drug-free state”, such information about drugs and related activities should be brought to his notice “so as to jointly fight the menace”.
 
 Apparently referring to some   MLAs calling for action against the drug mafia, Parrikar assured that due cognisance and strict action would be taken on every such issue brought to his notice. 
 
 The letter comes in the wake of criticism of the home department and the police force from the ruling coalition members for failing to crackdown on big drug players and statements about the police-drug mafia nexus. 
 
 BJP’s Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral had recently hit out saying, “In January, when the election code of conduct was in force for the assembly polls, police conducted regular seizures of drugs, with the election commission overseeing the progress. They seized not just ganja, but other party drugs such as MDMA, LSD and ecstasy. But after the elections, the raids stopped. Why was that? Did the drug trade cease to exist after the polls?”
 
 Cabral, who is normally guarded in his statements, had called for a time-bound programme to eliminate the scourge of drugs from the shores of Goa. Talking to TOI, he had demanded that the CM fix a time frame by which he will make Goa drug-free, much on the same lines as he announced that he would make Goa plastic and garbage-free by 2018.
 
 Before the dust could settle on the issue, WRD minister Vinod Palyekar said that he had stopped his morning walks as he was being stalked, adding that the stalking had commenced soon after his expressed he determination to crackdown on the drug mafia in the state. He wrote to the chief secretary, who is also the home secretary, about the threat perception. Strongly defending him, GFP said that the chief minister should help Palyekar in his “anti-drug campaign”.
 
 Among other MLAs, deputy speaker of Goa assembly and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo had also made statements about the police-drug mafia nexus.
 
 
