HYDERABAD: India probably had plans to bat big and just once in the match, but on a wicket where the bowlers had to work hard for success, they perforce had to come for a second dig.

 The Bangladesh first innings lasted 127.5 overs and that their bowlers needed a break was the rationale for not enforcing the follow-on, said  , whose rollicking, unbeaten 54 on Sunday helped Virat Kohl set Bangladesh a target of 459 runs to win. “Since we fielded for more than hundred overs, the idea was to give our bowlers a break so that they can recover and come back fresh. When I went into bat, the idea was to score as many as runs as possible. We were looking at 150-200 runs on the board. We wanted to express ourselves,'' he said.
 
 
 
 
 
 The situation called for a different approach and Pujara was game for it, a hook off Taskin Ahmed laying bare his intention to bat for a cause. “We wanted to accelerate and bat for a session.There is a perception that I can't play many shots. If you look at domestic cricket and overall, this was one of the occasions that gave me an opportunity to express myself and I did that.There was a situation where I could play freely , take some risks and play my shots. When it comes to Test cricket, you have to put a price on your wicket.When you are playing in first innings, you don't want to play any rash shot and put the team in trouble. This was an opportunity where we had to bat for one session, and even if I get out, we had batsmen who can come in and accelerate,“ he explained.
 
 The 29-year-old from Saurashtra was hopeful that innings such as this one will change the perception that he's more suited to the longer format of the game.“I am very hopeful that that perception will go soon. I have got a T20 hundred in the DY Patil tournament and probably am batting freely . I added a few shots to my game. I have changed my game and in near future, I think things will change,“ he said.
 
 The No. 3 opined that the spinners should come into their own on the final day as the pitch has started to assist slow bowlers. “The wicket is slightly on the slower side, but it has opened up and there should be more assistance for spinners tomorrow.“
 
 
