HYDERABAD: Waking up to the dangers of  , particularly after the   at Nanakramguda that killed 11 people in December, the municipal administration department has decided to amend laws to make it tougher for people to register properties. The new law will ensure a builder or developer cannot sell flats or plots to people without first taking the mandatory permissions from the civic body.

 “The revenue (registrations and stamps) department has given an in-principle clearance to the proposal, making a sanctioned plan or approval mandatory while registering a property. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has been advised to amend the relevant municipal laws to make this happen,” GHMC chief city planner S Devender Reddy told TOI.
 
 The state government has been for long mulling linking property registration with sanction of building plans and layout approvals in an attempt to curb illegal constructions. This had become a major issue as developers were selling   to the public without taking permissions from the authorities. If the civic body made any attempt to raze such buildings, it was forced to deal with the anger of the residents. The buyers cried foul asking why the government had not prevented the illegal constructions from coming up in the first place.
 
 Towards this end, a proposal was sent to the revenue department four months ago to make approvals mandatory before registering a property. However, the stamps and registrations department was reportedly not too keen as it feared a dip in the revenue from property registrations.
 
 After the Nanakramguda building collapse, however, municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao reportedly insisted on changes in the law to curb the mushrooming of illegal constructions.
 
 Officials said that the municipal administration department has begun the exercise of amending the GHMC Act and the Municipalities Act. The amendments are likely to be placed in the Legislative Assembly in the upcoming budget session. Once the Acts are amended, the stamps and registrations department will effect changes in the rules of the Indian Stamp Act.
 
 
