Within hours of   highlighting the   Mohammad Saeed, who has been carrying his two-year-old son in his lap while plying the auto after his   three weeks ago, the city opened its heart and   for the family on Monday.

 Saeed, who found livelihood here when he came to the city from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh as a 16-year-old looking for work a decade ago, was overwhelmed and humbled that complete strangers had anonymously deposited money in his bank account. By 4 pm Monday, his bank account showed a credit of Rs 30,000.
 
 Others offered to babysit his children, son Muzammil and daughter Muskaan, even as Saeed talked about plans to admit his wife Yasmin to a private hospital in Mazagaon today. Byculla MLA Waris Pathan, producerdirector Vidhu Vinod Chopra, and TV actor Naakul Mehta have also offered help.
 
 Yasmin, who is paralysed on the left side of her body, has promised to cook a meal for the family’s wellwishers once she is back on her feet.
 
 The couple also profusely thanked film director Vinod Kapri, who on Sunday posted on Twitter a picture of Saeed with his son in his lap, in his autorickshaw. Kapri later tweeted Saeed’s bank account details, after receiving several queries on how to extend help to Saeed.
 
 Often, when Muzammil, stifled by Mumbai’s heat and traffic while riding with his father, becomes cranky and doesn’t stop crying, Saeed pacifies him with a candy. “He doesn’t realise his mother is unwell. If I were to leave him at home, he would insist his mother plays with him,” Saeed said.
 
 Carrying a child around brings its share of problems, as Saeed often discovers when many passengers opt for another auto. A few days ago, Saeed was fined Rs 450 by a traffic constable who spotted Muzammil in his lap. “I feel sorry for my son… he’s just two and for someone so young, to travel in an autorickshaw for 10, 12 hours a day, it’s sheer torture. But he’s handled it bravely so far,” Saeed said, adding that he would have completely fallen apart if not for the support of his neighbour, in whose shanty his family has found refuge.
 
 This correspondent spent a day at a shanty in Versova village where Saeed, Yasmin, and their two children found shelter five months ago, after they were thrown out from their room as they couldn’t arrange for the rent.
 
 The shanty is owned by Saeed’s neighbour Rukhsar, who resides there with her husband, three children, and in-laws. After Saeed and his family moved in, the barely 200 sq ft room accommodates 11 people, and is separated into two by steel cupboards.
 
 Rukhsar said she couldn’t bear the sight of her neighbour and friend Yasmin being homeless, and had complete support from her husband and in-laws when she proposed that they share their room with Yasmin’s family.
 
 “We just want Yasmin to get well. There’s just one thing we want, ek baar theek ho jayegi toh humko khaane pe bulaye, aur humein yaad rakhein hamesha,” Rukhsar said, as Saeed said Rukhsar and her family were “more than parents” for him.
 
 “I went to my village for more than a month and was not able to pay the rent. I don’t know what would have happened to us had Rukhsar and her in-laws not helped us,” he said.
 
 Talking about her illness, Yasmin said it happened all of a sudden, and she has no idea about the causes. “Three weeks ago, I had gone over to a relatives’ house in Nallasopara when I lost sensation in my left arm. I didn’t pay much attention but the next morning, I couldn’t move at all,” she said. The relatives accompanied her to Cooper Hospital, but haven’t bothered to check on her since.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Yasmin, 24, married Saeed when both were in their teens; she was 17, he 19. “We never had money but we were happy we had two children. Now with this illness, and the tension my husband is going through, I’m just praying all the time that I get back on my feet,” said Yasmin, who’s studied till Std IV.
 
 Saeed said he was disheartened when a doctor at Cooper Hospital said Yasmin may not walk again. “Another doctor said she would need two injections, costing around Rs 1.2 lakh. I now realise a lot of people are on my side, and I intend to get my wife checked by good doctors, and do whatever it takes to complete the treatment,” he said, adding his parents were scheduled to arrive in the city in a day or two.
 
 The couple said such overwhelming support from complete strangers in Mumbai has restored their faith in people and in the Almighty. “I know she will be alright. I thank the people of Mumbai for their support and blessings,” he said.
 
 Film director Vinod Kapri, whose tweet launched a mission of sorts to help out Saeed, said he was just doing his duty as a citizen and a human being. “India is a beautiful country where people from across regions, and castes have come together to help a fellow human being,” he told Mirror.
 
