CHENNAI: The Madras high court has closed the original application and civil suits filed by Rajya Sabha member  , who has been expelled from the  , and her husband   against the move to elevate V K Sasikala as general secretary of the party. 

 AIADMK presidium chairman Mathusuthanan had filed a rejection petition against the suits. Sasikala Pushpa had said in the suit that the party bylaws did not allow Sasikalaa to be elected general secretary; only a person who had been the primary member of the party continuously for five years could contest the post. Despite this, efforts were on to post her to the top position.
 
 In the last hearing in December 23, 2016, while senior advocate R Krishnamoorthy appeared for AIADMK, senior counsels K M Vijayan and V Prakash appeared for Pushpa and Lingeswara. Krisnamoorthy said Pushpa had no locus standi to file the suit as she had already been expelled from the party. He said Pushpa had filed the suit solely on the basis of unverified reports published in the media. 
 
 Pushpa's counsel, however, said the AIADMK had not issued any official communication pertaining to her expulsion. Pushapa also had "personal knowledge" about Sasikala's proposed election. The AIADMK also did not issue any statement contradicting Sasikala's proposed election, said counsel. Following the arguments, Justice K Kalyanasundaram had reserved his orders.
 
 After the hearing, in an interview to TOI, Pushpa claimed Sasikala may amend the bylaws through coercion to make herself eligible. The bylaws said the general secretary has to be elected by the 1.5 crore primary members. She said her fight against them (Sasikala family) was not because she herself wanted to become the general secretary. She was fighting against their misdeeds, she said. 
 
 On December 31, ending nearly one month of uncertainty over the leadership of the AIADMK, Sasikala assumed office as general secretary of the party. She is the sixth general secretary of the party founded by matinee idol M   and the second woman to occupy the post after  . On Monday Justice Kalyansundaram allowed the rejection petition and closed the suits.
 
 
