NEW DELHI: Even as   chief   is set to hold a rally in Kerala today, the state's   chief minister   on Monday said that the BJP "equating democratically functioning CPI (Marxist) party with Maoists" is "irresponsible."

 Vijayan was responding to comments made by Union minister   on Monday. Vijayan also called Javadekar's statement "nothing more than a cheap publicity stunt" for Shah's three-day 'Jan Raksha Yatra' to protest "state-sponsored violence" in Kerala. 
 
  
  
 "The irresponsible statement by Javdekar equating democratically functioning CPI (Marxist) party with Maoists is highly condemnable."
 
 Javadekar had on Monday alleged that the CPM was involved in "murder politics" in Kerala, which had led to the killings of "more than 124 innocent BJP and national organisation workers."
 
 The 'M' in CPM now stands for 'Maoists' and not 'Marxists', said Javadekar. 
 
 The Union minister's comments came in response to a Facebook post on Sunday by Vijayan, which in turn was sparked by   chief  's comments on Saturday.
 
 Bhagwat said, "Jihadi elements are acting out their violence in Kerala and Bengal, and while people are resisting, the state governments are supporting these anti-national forces by not fulfilling their duty, they (state governments) are on their side."
 
 Viajayan said on Facebok, "RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat's allegation that Kerala government is helping anti-nationals is nothing but their repeat formula to categorize people and create divide."
 
 "The CPM has always engaged in murder politics in Kerala. Even in West Bengal, their track record was bad, but in Kerala particularly, the Communist Party is not Communist Party-Marxist, it is Communist Party-Maoist. They believe in violence, they use violence as a tool," Javadekar had alleged.
 
 The BJP leader had also alleged on Monday that Vijayan’s own district Kannur was a "minefield" where "more than 84 murders" have taken place.
 
 Vijayan called Javadekar's comment a "smokescreen".
 
  
  
 "He referring Kannur as my native place is just a weak technique made to smokescreen the atrocities committed by RSS & his party followers."
 
 The CPM leader demanded that Shah look into the "mayhem created by the RSS & BJP followers in Kannur."
 
  
  
 "Mr Javdekar please advise Sh. Amit Shah to sincerely enquire into the outrageous mayhem created by the RSS & BJP followers in Kannur," he tweeted.
 
 The CM demanded that the Centre support Kerala's "secular & peace initiatives." 
 
 "People of Kerala respect the constitution but also desire the Union Minister(s) to support Kerala govt's secular & peace initiatives," he tweeted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
