BENGALURU: In the West, the word `hog' is often used to refer to a motorcycle, usually a  . The nickname `Hog' goes back to the 1920s, when a group of farm boys adopted a live hog as their mascot, and would take it for a ride after every race won. Since then, Harley's association with hogs has been further reinforced ­ by their   (HOG), and the abbreviation for the   (HOG).

 HOG is made of Harley fans from both genders, but the women who ride the famous motorcycle brand have their own appellation,   (LOH).
 
 India has around 30 women riders who form LOH India. And on February 17, these happy few will ride together as a band of sisters participating in the fifth edition of the India HOG Rally in Goa.
 
 Bengaluru is home to eight active LOH members who cruise along on their Street 750s, Iron 883s and Fatbobs alongside an army of male Harley riders. The Bengaluru chapter of riders called Tusker Harley has over 900 active members. There are nearly 40 more women members of the Bengaluru LOH who are active pillion riders and invariably accompany their partners on Harley. They are called Associate Riders in the Harley chapters in India.
 
 This year three Bengalurean LOHs are revving their rides to the big event in Goa. Architect Shirley George, who rides a Harley Fatbob, is a veteran. She has ridden to all five editions of the HOG rally in India.“I'm representing Tusker Harley at the HOG Rally. However, this year at Goa, all Harley women riders from India, wellknown as LOH, irrespective of which region they come from, will ride together formally for the first time,“ she says.
 
 George will begin her ride to Goa on the morning of February 15 on her 1690 cc machine from Lavelle Road.
 
 The other two LOH riders from the Garden city who are heading to Goa can't hide their excitement as they talk about the upcoming big biker carnival as it is their maiden HOG Rally. “I'm really looking forward to the ride and being part of the event in Goa. I'm eager to meet women riders from all across India. I've interacted with so many of them online through our lady riders group and I'm really looking forward to seeing them face to-face for the first time,“ says Krupa Reddy , an execu tive with a multinational company.
 
  
  
 
 
 Reddy, who rides her Street 750 model from her home in Kalyan Nagar to her workplace in Whitefield daily, has done the miles on her machine with trips all across Karnataka and Tamil Nadu both solo and as a member of a group. This time, for her trip to Goa, she plans to hit the road alone. But she is sure to share the road enroute with over 150 Bengaluru bikers heading to the event.
 
  
  
 
 
 Praveshika Katiyar, the founder-member of city-based Ace Motorcycle Club, will be heading to the HOG Rally with her club members. “We are 15 Harley riders. We formed the club recently and I'm the lone woman rider in the group,“ she says. An IT professional with a tech giant in Bengaluru, Katiyar bought a Street 750 for her birthday in December 2015, fulfilling a childhood dream of owning a high-end motorcycle. “I have done lot of shorter rides but Goa will be my longest. I'm excited and can't wait to start the road trip along with my club members as we plan to ride to Goa on February 15,“ she says.
 
 The fifth edition of the HOG Rally will be held in Goa from February 16 to 18 and nearly 3000 bikers from 26 Harley chapters including those from Bengaluru are expected to participate.
 
