After being a part of ' ', a film that is inspired by the real story of a prison band,   got the chance to know more about reform systems for inmates in our prisons. The actor, who was recently in Delhi to promote his film, told us that he and his co-star  , who plays an NGO worker, visited Yerwada Central jail in Pune and it was heartening for them to see how much emphasis is being put on reforms in our jails.

  The actor says, "I am someone who believes that reformation is the way forward in our system. People who are not repeat offenders should get a chance to be part of our society as any other human being once they are out of jails. We went to Yerwada jail recently and we saw how much emphasis is paid on jail reforms. We met the IG, DIG, jailer and a lot of inmates, who are given skill training so that when they go out of jails they can contribute to society and earn a certain respectability." Farhan adds that apart from skill training, what is also required is a system for psychologically evaluating inmates before their release. "I think there should be a system wherein there's a panel of experts, may be psychologists, who can inform the public at large (through a certificate) that this person has completed his jail term and is safe to be in the environment around you, so that they can easily get a job. That's as important as giving them skill training. Apart from putting them in jail for the crime they committed, we should come up with ways to induct them back into our society."
 
  Farhan gives credit to the director of the film, Ranjit Tiwari, for his research on jails across the country to come up with an inspiring and engaging story that gives an insight into the lives of inmates in our jails. "For a very long time we haven't had a film purely set in a jail. What Ranjit has handled the subject very sensitively. A part of him believes very strongly in reformation and that comes out quite well in the film. He feels that people who have committed a mistake and are in jail for a crime that they have committed, should get a chance once they are out of jail to pick up their lives from the point where they left," says Farhan.
 
 
  
  
 
  The cast of the film did visit Yerwada Central jail and Adarsh Jail in Lucknow, where the musical band Healing Hearts, the band that inspired the plot of the film, was formed, but did not get a chance to visit Tihar in Delhi. "I was invited by Tihar Jail recently, but the event got postponed. They were doing a week-long festival in Delhi and there was a day dedicated to music where inmates would be singing and performing and they wanted me to be a part of it, but that event got postponed. I do look forward to visiting Tihar and I have told the IG that I definitely would come in the future," he informs.
 
  A good number of international prison dramas have been made, while there has hardly been any film in   that could be called a prison drama. Farhan says that while jails form an important part of stories of many Bollywood films, the category still remains unexplored in our industry. "My earliest memory of prison films is 'Escape To Victory'. In Indian films, jail was always a part of the film, but a film was never set in a jail, so our understanding of jails have been limited. There are more international films that come to mind when we talk about prison dramas. 'Midnight Express' was a dark film set in a Turkish prison. Then there was 'The Shawshank Redemption' and 'Papillon', starring Steve McQueen," he adds.
 
 
  
  
 
 
