NEW DELHI: Two days after searching three premises connected to Rajya Sabha MP  , the   has issued summons to her for personal appearance before the investigating officer at the ED’s Delhi office on Tuesday.

 Bharti has been asked to bring certain documents to establish her   in acquiring properties in Delhi, including three farm houses in posh localities.
 
 On Saturday, ED officials had searched the three farmhouses in Ghitorni, Bijwasan and Sainik Farms in Delhi allegedly belonging to Bharti and her husband Shailesh Kumar in connection with a money laundering case registered by the agency earlier. Misha and her husband were questioned by ED officials during the search operations.
 
 The ED is investigating Misha’s financial trail in acquiring shares of Mishail Packers and Printers Pvt Ltd, an alleged shell company that was used to acquire properties in the Capital. Misa and her husband are directors in this firm. During the searches, ED officials seized several “incriminating documents and electronic devices, including mobile phones”.
 
 The ED raids on Bharti’s properties came a day after the CBI conducted multiple searches on the residence and office premises of   and his associates in a different case pertaining to contracts awarded to a private firm when he was railway minister. While the CBI raids involved 12 locations across four states of Bihar, Jharkhand, Haryana and Odisha, the ED searches were restricted to Delhi.
 
 The ED’s probe against Bharti is being linked with its earlier action in which it had arrested alleged hawala operators Surendra Jain and Virendra Jain. Mishail Printers and Packers Pvt Ltd, a shell company, was operated by the Jain brothers and it owned one of the farmhouses searched by the ED on Saturday. 
 
 The ED is the third central body probing alleged financial irregularities by Lalu’s family after the CBI and the income tax department which recently attached benami assets worth about Rs 170 crore in its investigation against them.
 
