LUCKNOW: Hindutva hardliner   
  with a promise not to discriminate against any section of the people of the country's largest state.

 Adityanath, his two deputies, Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, and 44 ministers took oath of office in the presence of PM  ,   chief   and several invitees at the sprawling Smriti Upvan in Lucknow on Sunday.
 
 Shah’s imprimatur was palpable in the selection of his confidantes, Shrikant Sharma, Siddharth Nath Singh and Dinesh Sharma, who had taken charge of Shah’s ambitious membership campaign. Maurya, too, is a Shah favourite: he was given a Lok Sabha ticket and made UP BJP chief ignoring many claims. 
 
 However, home minister Rajnath Singh’s son, 
  , failed to find place in the ministry, even as the grandson of former CM Kalyan Singh and the son of Lalji Tandon made the cut. 
 
 Sandeep Singh got a minister of state rank, while Ashutosh Tandon has been made cabinet minister. 
 
 All “outsiders” were brought in and nominated at the instance of Shah, and all are ministers now. 
 
 Both Shrikant Sharma and Sidharth Nath Singh were office-bearers in the central BJP and are first-time MLAs . At a press conference, the CM promised a regime that would never engage in discrimination amid concerns about the orientation of his saffron regime.
 
 He also pledged to fulfil all election promises in the spirit of “sabka saath, sabka vikas”. 
 
 Sources said Yogi addressed party workers, telling them not to make any brash or thoughtless comments, and advised them to declare their known sources of income within a fortnight. 
 
  
  , including the two deputy CMs, consists of 23 “forward” castes, 14 OBCs and five Dalits. It has one Muslim and one Sikh member each. Adityanath Yogi, as he called himself while taking oath, was the first to be sworn in as UP’s 19th CM and at 44, he’s the second youngest after Akhilesh Yadav in 2012. 
 
 Following Yogi were his deputies Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma and 22 cabinet ministers. Ten of them were ministers in the previous government as well — Suresh Khanna, S P Shahi, S P Maurya, Rajesh Agrawal, Dharmapal Singh, L N Chaudhary, Ramapati Shastri, Satish Mahana, R P Singh alias Moti Singh and Nandgopal Nandi. Interestingly, the rest 13 cabinet ministers are first-timers. Among BJP bigwigs were L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, besides chief ministers of states ruled by BJP- or its allies.
