BENGALURU:  , while strongly denying any governance lapses by its board, said on Thursday that it had recently appointed the law firm of Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, described as “corporate governance experts“, to receive inputs from the promoters and other key stakeholders, to evaluate them and make recommendations to the board. In a statement, the company said that while the board appreciates and respects inputs from the founders, it is committed to fulfilling its fiduciary responsibility to act independently and in the overall interest of shareholders.

 As part of the same statement, the chairman of Infosys,  , strongly defended Sikka, saying the board was “fully aligned with his strategic direction“. Jeff Lehman, the senior most member of the Info sys board and chairman of the nomination and remuneration committee, defended the company's chairman, R Seshasayee, who is reportedly facing heat from the founders, saying: “The board has full confidence in the leadership of Seshasayee to steer this company in these challenging times.“
 
 This follows reports of tension between the founders on one hand and Sikka and the board on the other. The founders are said to have redflagged certain governance issues. But people close to the board and to Sikka insist there has been no breach of governance.
 
 Dismissing media reports of “purported rifts among the founders, the board and the management,“ Infosys said, “The issues highlighted by the media -CEO compensation, appointment of certain independent directors, and severance pay relating to former employees -are several months old, on which the company's position has been repeatedly explained. While there could be differences in views on these matters, they have been over whelmingly approved by shareholders, wherever required, and on which due disclosures have been made.“
 
 Infosys said, “The board receives inputs from various stakeholders, including the company's promoters. It gives serious consideration to all these inputs. The company it has an independent and professional board, whose members possess vast experience. The independent directors have no interest other than their commitment to enable this great institution that has been assiduously built by the iconic founders, to succeed.“
 
 Seshasayee also said, “The company is in the process of a formidable transformation journey... and is very appreciative of the initiatives taken by him (Sikka) in pursuance of this transformation. Vishal and the board, while being pleased with the company's resumption of industry leading performance on many parameters, are keen to further accelerate the progress and achieve even more shareholder value increase, on the foundation of sound governance. We will remain undistracted with this focus.“
 
 Lehman said, “The members of the board are deeply engaged with the company and spend considerable time on the affairs of the company.“
 
