Cathy O’Dowd, the first woman to scale   from both northern and southern sides, had a wonderful 11-day stay in the city. Along with interacting with a diverse crowd and taking part in a cycle ride to stamp out the stigma around mental health, she also spent time narrating her inspiring experiences to a bunch of students at IIT-Bombay recently. Excerpts from her interaction:

 
 
 Though I’d have loved to, I never trekked as a kid. It was only at 14 that I discovered a bit of hiking during a summer camp. This was followed by rock climbing and by 21, I started taking up expeditions — initially in Central Africa and then in the Andes and Alps. My next objective, then, was  , though I didn’t expect it to be Mt Everest. I was finishing my Masters in Media when the first Everest expedition from South Africa was announced in 1996. Initially, it was an all-male group but a newspaper ran a competition in order to find women for the team. They published an ad that read, ‘Have you got the balls to be our first woman on the summit?’ Honestly, we (women) were there to look good in the photographs. At that point there were fewer expeditions and I really had no option to choose. So I took it up anyway, and ended up being one of the two women to be selected.
 
 
 
 Not a lot. I did come across men who were slightly sexist, but the biggest challenge I faced was to overcome my own demons — of not being able to be as strong or as fast as some men. I realised over time that you can train your way out of it and nobody is a superhuman. We are all making use of ways to compensate. I don’t have to feel ashamed of it because I am a woman.
 
 
 
 I didn’t want to climb Everest for the second time; it was always K2 on the list (which I have still not climbed). At the time, we didn’t have enough experience and thus wanted to scale one of the remaining mountains from the top seven peaks. While we did find sponsors, they only wanted us to scale Everest. And so, even though we’d already climbed it, we decided on taking a different route — it was a different country with different weather and geology. Also, the sponsors got what they wanted!
 
 
 
 Thirty years from now, we’ll be flying to Everest! There are differences in the equipment — they’ve gone lighter and are more efficient today. Also, climbing has gone super commercial, there are queues of climbers trying to get to the top. You have to wait for your turn to take the mandatory summit photograph.
 
 
 
 Post-expedition depression is inevitable. In my case, I created a life that allowed me to live in the mountains and spend a lot of time outdoors. I don’t have to come back to a corporate life in the city. As far as my family is concerned, it’s important to decide what’s fair to your people and there’s no one thing that works for everybody. Parents are born to worry; mine were amazing, though. All they ever said after I came back with crazy schemes was, ‘Wow, amazing idea. How can we help?’ They never did a guilt trip; and this, despite having a son killed in a car crash. I’ve seen a lot of parents asking kids to steer away from what they wish to do. That’s not fair to children. As for your spouse, you need to be married to the right person. Your partner should be someone who enjoys that kind of independence these projects require. As for kids, it depends on how much risk you’re willing to take once you are a parent.
 
 
 
 I’m fairly methodical when it comes to climbing. I am conservative and think things through. I’ll never be one of those incredibly pushy people who take huge risks. But there is an instinctive side to me; a side that says, ‘This is great, let’s go for it’, or ‘This doesn’t feel right.’ Also, I am not a solo climber. I like working in teams where I can look up to my teammates. It’s great to be excited and motivated together. 
 
  
  
 
 
 'Meru'! It’s about technical rock climbing at a certain altitude. The movie has been shot so well and has been done by the climbers themselves. 
 
 
 I like people who head to the mountains for their personal idiosyncratic reasons. These are the ones who wander off into the mountains following their own dream, finding their own truth. Everyone thinks that you conquer mountains. You don’t. It’s a journey… You may have a summit in mind and would like to keep it on track but that’s not why you’re there.
 
 
 
 India has some good climbers. But there is a certain tendency for them to just walk in the footsteps of others. It would be great to see more Indian climbers climbing new routes and pushing the envelope. Probably the team is doing some groundbreaking work and I am unaware of it. It’d be nice to see Indian teams leading the way in the Himalayas.
 
 
 
 
 It’s not so much a go-to quote but this is the closest I can come to it. I was a big fan of ' ' series and there’s a poem in there that I learnt as a kid. 
 
 “Still round the corner there may wait
 
 A new road or a secret gate
 
 And though I oft have passed them by
 
 A day will come at last when I
 
 Shall take the hidden paths that run
 
 West of the Moon, East of the Sun.”
 
 What I like about this is that it doesn’t all have to happen right now. The world is full of potential, mystery and opportunity and we can’t get it all today but it’s there for us tomorrow. And my climbing journey has been like that – year by year, mountain by mountain, country by country… just exploring… 
 
 
 
 I don’t believe in the concept of bucket list. I wanted to visit India for the longest time to see if my stories resonate with the audience here and I’m glad to know that they do. I also want to come back to India to use these stories and talk about leadership. I want to go climbing to some obscure peaks that I have still to look up on the map. It doesn’t have to be harder; it just has to be different. I am working towards my next expedition in Ladakh. It’s going to be an Indian-International team. We are working on the funding and I can’t wait to pick up my bags.
 
