 and husband   are currently enjoying their time together in London. Initially thought to be on a holiday, it was later confirmed that the couple were there to fulfil work commitments – Bipasha was asked to be the showstopper at the India-Pakistan London Fashion Show.

 As per reports, Bipasha threw quite a tantrum as her demands were allegedly not met by the organising committee. It has been reported that the actress, who was lodged at the Mayfair Hotel in London, refused to come out of her room or speak to anybody a few hours before the show got on the way. Bipasha had allegedly taken an amount of 7800 pounds, apart from the travel expenses in cash at the airport and didn’t even walk the ramp because her demands were not made.
 
 Also Read: 
 
 
 Responding to a string of allegations from the organisers, Bipasha Basu’s team has issued a clarification saying, “Bipasha has always had a spotless reputation for more than 15 years in the industry and has been a thorough professional. Unfortunately, the organisers didn’t honour their commitment as promised in terms of hospitality and logistics, on landing Bipasha had to book her own hotel stay. What happened was completely unprofessional on the organisers part."
 
 Early in the day, Bipasha and hubby Karan got poetic while responding to naysayers with an Instagram post which read, " You can not move us with your might, you can not hurt us with your words, you can not affect us with your lies. We are unstoppable because we are love and light. We are peaceful because we are the truth..." The post goes on to read, "We sleep well at night because we are free from corruption. Be with us not against us, let's spread the love and cure negativity."
 
 
 
  
 
 On the other hand, the organisers claim, the actress had reportedly asked for her stay at the Mayfair to be extended, but on the account of full bookings, they made accommodations at another 5-star property that took a fee of 600 pounds per night. They also claim that the couple was given a 5-pound phone recharge card, which the actress reportedly threw on the organiser’s face. 
 
 If reports are to be believed, then the event managers were left fumed with the way the situation unfolded and have even threatened to “apply to the visa and immigration centre to debar her from working in the UK in future."
 
 Bipasha later took to her social networking handle to clarify her stance saying, “15 years you don't last any business being unprofessional. You last because you are clear and particular and have self-respect."
 
  
  
 
 
