So, your big day has already been decided and you are all set to begin your preparations. The wedding jitters are yet to settle down and that’s alright. Everyone requires time, for that feeling of tying that knot of commitment to sink inBut fret not, BT shares with you a month-wise guide to ease out the heebies-jebbies before you get married end of the year.

 
 
 Venue hunt
 This is the time when you and your beau’s family will be looking out for venues. The city weather is quite pleasant for a November-December wedding, so you need to look for open-air spaces. There are many grounds in the suburbs like Andheri, Chembur, Deonar and also in South Mumbai which lend out their open-air spaces for weddings and receptions.
 
 You can also opt for a destination wedding. And, for that you don’t have to drive that far. Prakriti Jindal, a wedding planner says, “Lonavla has many resorts which offer destination and themed wedding options. Lavasa is also an upcoming place. There are several open-air spaces on the Mumbai-Pune expressway which have vast expanses of ground for conducting wedding receptions. These ideally cost anywhere between `5 lakh to `15 lakh (venue only, venue with decoration, venue with decoration and food). However, one might have to organise for the travel (to and fro) and accommodation by themselves.”
 
 Making the guest list
 This, too, is ideally decided during this period. You may have to sit down with your fiance’s family and look out for all the guests who you would like to invite. These can be your immediate family, your extended family, friends, colleagues and even neighbours. Worry not, the first list is bound to be a big one, but you can slowly start trimming it after you decide on the ceremonies you would like to have. These days, there are professionals who help create such a guest list for you. Arjun Singhal who runs a wedding organising portal says, “It isn’t about deciding on the food menu, decoration, photographer, videographer or clothes alone. These days, couples who are busy and do not have enough time to jot down their guests, hand over the duties to us. After an initial discussion, we list down family members with the help of other relatives in the family or social media and then present a final list to the couple.”
 
 Deciding on the ceremonies
 Now, this is something that you can do after the main wedding and reception dates are fixed. Based on the dates, you can opt for a mehndi, sangeet and other rituals that are a part of your community wedding. This is also the time when you can check the rough guest list and decide on who you would like to call for which function. Smriti Gavhane, a 29-year-old advertising professional who is planning a December wedding says, “My wedding date was decided sometime end of January this year. Post that, my parents and I started discussing who to call for which function. Since I have decided on a temple wedding, I won’t be able to invite everybody from my family and friends circle to come for the main ceremony. Thus, we have broken our guest list and have decided to invite friends for cocktail and mehndi, extended family for sangeet and only close family and friends for the main wedding and reception days. This makes planning simpler.”
 
 
 
 Making a shopping list
 Now comes the time when you start selecting what all you would want to buy before and after your D-day. It isn’t only about clothes. You might have to consider buying jewellery, shoes, bags, make-up and other skincare products. List all of this down and the quantities you would require. You can then schedule a particular day and go out shopping for the same.
 
 Choosing your wedding attire
 Wedding shopper Mihita Sharma says, “Bride-to-be’s are usually confused when it comes to choosing their wedding attire. Most of them either go through the pictures that their friends have posted on social media of their weddings or they look out for clothes online. However, there are many personal shoppers in the city who have experience in picking up wedding outfits for you. All one has to do is spend an entire day along with the wedding shopper going around the city and trying out the best outfits.”
 
 There are many stores which also customise your wedding outfit. If you have a dress in mind, you can let them know three to four months in advance so they can design the right one for you.
 
 Buying gifts for family members/guests
 Next comes selecting what you would want to give as a token of love to your family and other guests. These could include your extended family as well. You can either choose to go personally shopping for it or you can also look up the internet for ideas. From interior décor items to apparels — the list goes on.
 
 Selecting make-up artist 
 and other professionals for your main day
 The next in line is to choose a make-up artist and other professional help that you would need for your main day. The planning should be done in advance to avoid any last minute delays and overbookings. Instead of doing the trial runs closer to the day of your wedding, you can do this months in advance. 
 
 
 
 Prep your skin and hair for the wedding day
 One cannot overlook the fact that you absolutely need to look your best on your grand day. The preparations need to at least start two months in advance so that you look every bit of that pretty bride. From scheduling appointments with a dermatologist to going in for those occasional facial and clean-up sessions, the list can be extensive. Dermatologist Dr Aparna Santhanam says, “This is the time when the bride-to-be has to correct any skin or hair disorders that she may have. The experts in the said field can assess the requirements and then start work on the same.”
 
 Rehearsals for the D-Day
 This is also the time when the bride has to start her make-up, hair and dress rehearsal for the main day. Stylist Heena Shah says, “We advise all brides-to-be to start all the rehearsals by this time of the month. The final fittings and changes can be made during this time. Also, the bride-to-be has an idea of what she is going to look like on the final day.”
 
 
 
