At the Sunday morning groundbreaking ceremony of Dalai Lama Centre for Ethics and Transformative Values, which is set to open its South Asia Centre in Hyderabad, His Holiness The Dalai Lama was in attendance. And he took the opportunity to reiterate just how much ancient Indian thought and wisdom, in his trademark witty style filled with wisecracks. And no one was immune to his sense of humour -- not the guests, not the delegates, not even IT Minister   who shared the stage with him. 
“In this country, the concept of atma was born 3000 years ago. They had known that there was more to life beyond body and mind. I call myself the messanger of ancient Indian thought. I think I speak more about the ancient Indian knowledge than Indian leaders do,” he said, pointing at the dias where KTR and deputy CM   sat. That got the whole audience roaring with laughter. KTR, who seemed rather lost, had to ask the members of His Holiness’ team to narrate what he had missed. 
 “Furthermore, someone asked me why do conisder yourself the son of India, continued the Dalai Lama. "All of my brain is filled with ancient Indian thought, while all of my body is the result of eating Indian dals, Indian chapathi, Indian rice. Therefore, mentally and physically, I am a son of India,” he asserted. 
 The friendly, fun banter between KTR and Dalai Lama did not stop there. The Dalai Lama said, “I am 82 years now. This July is my birthday. (Points at the audience) Young girl, you tell me, how old do I look?” KTR chose to answer that: “22... I think you still look like you're 22”, cracking up the Dalai Lama, who went on to add, “That’s an exaggeration, I would say.”
 
 
 
 We are primarily — mentally, physically and emotionally — the same. In the secondary level, yes, there are differences. ‘I am Tibetan, I am Buddhist. And I am the Dalai Lama’. Out of seven million, only I am Dalai. Then I get the feeling of loneliness... That’s why we need to relate to each other at the primary level, because the differences are all stuff we created, in our minds.
 
 
 
 In Mumbai, there are a few hundreds of Parsis living, all peacefully; no fear. In  , Cochin, there are Jews. There is a large number of Christians too here. India has second largest Muslim population in the world. In fact, you have more Muslims than Pakistan. Also, in this country there is no problem between Shia and Sunnis, while in the Middle East and other parts of the world there is massive conflict. It is known as Hindustan, but all of the world’s religious traditions live here in harmony. Of course, there are small-small issues. After all India is a land of human beings, not land of gods. So some conflicts are understandable. But I think India is the only country where all of the world’s major religious and spiritual traditions live together. 
 
 
 
 The EU spirit should develop in Africa as well; they should think of an African Union. I think Mexico should be part of the United States. Asian countries too should come together. That’s my dream, of course, we can’t imagine this will happen anytime soon. But, let’s say in a few centuries, we should ultimately aim for a human union, a completely demilitarised world. At least we should start efforts towards the spirit of dialogue. This century should be a century of dialogue. Because of global warming disasters are coming our way. We should be ready to help each other with sense of oneness in all of humanity.
 
 
