PATIALA: After the Supreme Court issued a notice to the Centre and six states on Friday, seeking their response on why self-styled ‘Gau Rakshak Dals’ should not be banned for allegedly creating disharmony among various communities and indulging in mob violence, at least six cow protection groups in Punjab have distant themselves from those indulging in violence. These vigilante groups have now literally disappeared following the arrest of  , last year, who led one such group, Gau Rakhsa Dal, in Rajpura. 

 Inquiries by TOI revealed that there were many cow protection groups working in the state, which provide medical and other aid to stray cattle. Six cow protection groups Sai Animal Care Sewa Society, Gaurdians of Voiceless, Janhit Sewa Samiti,  , Vande Matram Dal and  , have distanced themselves from radical vigilante groups.
 
 Anmol Sharma, who is associated with Gau Vansh Pashu Varg Chikitsa Sewa Samiti, said it was totally unacceptable that self-appointed groups of citizens undertake law enforcement in their area without legal authority and should be banned by the government. He claimed that after Satish was arrested, none of the cow protect organisations had come forward to protest against the move of the Punjab government giving credence to the fact that such violence was not acceptable even in the name of “gau raksha”.
 
 Amit Kumar of Janhit Sewa Samiti said the idea of using violence to protect animals was absurd and called for strict action against those who kill humans. “Such groups, which are not backed by any law, kill a man on basis of mythological beliefs. I saw how a man in Rajasthan was killed even when he was showing documents, the vigilantes tore those papers and thrashed him brutally. We at times spot vehicles transporting animals, but never take law into our hands,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, Rajpura DSP Rajinder Singh Sohal, who had led the police that arrested Satish last year, said earlier there were sporadic incidents in certain parts of the Punjab where vigilante groups would grab cows from farmers and traders and even extort money from truckers in the name of cow protection. “But after Satish was arrested, all these groups have disappeared. His gang in Rajpura has been disbanded and movement of vehicles ferrying animals has been restored,” he said.
 
