THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: If you happen to live within the limits of   cyber city   sub-division, it would be good to spare some space to accommodate one more card in your card-crammed wallet – Janamaithri Police card. 

 The Janamaithri police card is a new initiative, which would be launched by the police under Kazhakkoottam cyber city to enable better connectivity with the people under its jurisdictional limits. The card, in the size of a debit card, would have all the necessary details to contact the police in time of an emergency. 
 
 The card will have the phone numbers and email ids of the circle inspector and sub-inspector on one side and all the emergency   numbers for various purposes listed on the other side. Each police station under the sub-division will be printing customised cards since the phone numbers of the circle inspectors and sub-inspectors may vary. The helpline numbers include that of police control room, crime stopper, childline, pink patrol, and Women’s Cell.
 
 Kazhakkoottam assistant commissioner A Pramod Kumar said that as the name suggests, the initiative is being launched with public support and not using the department fund. Various business enterprises and non-profit organizations under the sub-division limits are sponsoring the project. He said the idea was to have such a card in the wallet, each person can access help instantly when any crisis hit them. 
 
 “Prathidhwani, a socio-culture organization of Technopark employees, is also one among the sponsors,” the assistant commissioner said. Beat patrolling officers under respective police stations will distribute these cards among the residents. 
 
 Kazhakkoottam and   police stations will be launching the cards first on April 1. In the next phase, the remaining police stations - Sreekaryam and Thumba - too will get their own Janamaithri cards. 
 
 It is not just permanent residents alone who are being targeted. At Kazhakkoottam, the police will be bringing out special cards in Hindi aimed at the migrant labourers living in various labour camps, whereas at Medical College, the cards will be distributed among the patients and bystanders in the hospital too. 
 
 The assistant commissioner said that despite various awareness drives, people still were unaware of senior police officers in their area. The   is expected to come handy when in need. 
 
 “It is a simple initiative but one that ensures better results,” the AC said. 
 
 The police at Kazhakkoottam cyber city sub-division had been launching various proactive measures to ensure the safety of public, ever since it was appended to the city police. Last year they had established surveillance camera network of their own with the support of residents and traders. A week ago a women’s help desk was launched at Technopark. 
 
 
