Trichy: A mahila court here on Friday sentenced former   of Trichy Corporation Mariam Ashik Meera to ten years rigorous imprisonment for raping a woman.

 Judge Jacintha Martin pronounced that Mariam Ashik Meera should undergo rigorous imprisonment for 30 years and pay a fine of Rs 50,000 for the crime. Since the court ordered him to undergo the punishment concurrently, the accused needs to spend only 10 years in jail.
 
 The punishment was awarded under sections 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent), 417 (punishment for cheating), 496 (fraudulent and unlawful marriage), 376 ( ) and 506 (i) (criminal intimidation).
 
 According to the complainant, Ashik Meera had a relationship with her from 2006 resulting in her pregnancy a couple of times. She gave birth to a baby girl three years ago. Based on her complaint, a case was filed with the Golden Rock all-woman police station on June 24, 2014.
 
 Special public prosecutor G Krishnaveni Thamaraiselvan, who argued for the woman, said the DNA test of the baby proved that Ashik Meera was the biological father. 
 
 “Ashik Meera admitted that he was the father of the baby. But he refused to accept the woman as a legal wife. He was also married to another woman,” Krishnaveni told the reporters.
 
 The court also awarded 10 years rigorous imprisonment and two years of imprisonment to Ashik Meera’s aunt Mymoon Sharifa (who is also his mother in-law) and imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 in connection with the case. She was ordered to undergo the punishment concurrently. Hence, she also needs to spend only ten years in jail.
 
 Mymoon is the mother of Shajitha Begum whom Ashik Meera married after being in relation with the complainant.
 
 Chandrababu alias VST Babu and ‘DYFI’ Saravanan were sentenced to seven years of imprisonment for abetment of crime. They were imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 each.
 
 Ashik Meera became deputy mayor of Trichy Corporation following the death of his father Mariam Pitchai who died in a road accident in 2011, hours before being sworn-in as a minister in the J Jayalalithaa cabinet. 
 
 Ashik Meera resigned from the deputy mayor post after the woman filed the complaint against him.
 
 
