AHMEDABAD: Over 1,200 medical practitioners, scientists, academicians and members of pharmaceutical industry from India and abroad participated in the eighth international symposium on current trends in healthcare organized by the Ramanbhai Foundation. 

  The three-day symposium that started from Thursday at Gujarat University Convention Centre is on theme ‘Advances in new drug discovery and development.’
 
 Some of the key focus areas of the symposium include public health and  ,   and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NASH),  ,   and  . The symposium would see 23 expert lectures and over 300 scientific poster presentations.
 
 Pankaj Patel, CMD of Zydus Cadila and chief patron of the foundation, said that drug discovery and development occurs as a result of many collaborations and learnings emerging from inter-connected disciplines. “This year’s theme of the symposium is to understand these linkages,” he said.
 
 Dr Jeffrey S Flier, dean of Harvard Medical School from 2007 to 2016, in his keynote address on ‘The problem of reproducibility in biomedical research’ said that in recent years more and more research in biological sciences has become difficult to reproduce. “While it’s not simple to reproduce something very complicated but once we cut through all discussions, we find more papers publishing data which is not true,” he said, adding, “While a country like the US has collective funding of around US $ 100 billion going in research, there are expectations that the impact of discovery will be maximized,” he said.
 
 Talking to TOI on the issue of obesity and diabetes, Dr Flier said that despite increase in our knowledge on the subjects in past 40 years, its prevalence has gone up. “I believe key discoveries are yet to be made. Many social and environmental factors are also at work. For many years, fat got exaggerated blame. But switching to carbohydrates has its own consequences,” he said.
 
 “It’s known for a long time that in South Asia and Asia the intra-abdominal obesity is closely linked to diabetes. Even people who look thin have abdominal fat. Methods such as BMI are not good indication of where fat is,” he said.
 
 Richard DiMarchi, professor of chemistry at Indiana University, said that the past century was about physical science. “The next would be about biological science. There is much to be discovered, for example how we acquire information, store or retrieve it. I see antibiotics, immunology progress the way IT has progressed,” he said. 
 
