They told her that a woman IPS officer will not only find it hard to find a husband but also to keep the marriage going. People who tried to dissuade   from joining the IPS, back in the 80s, had other such arguments too. But she decided to follow her heart and became the first woman IPS officer in the State. Now, as she earns the distinction of being the first ever woman DGP, she is also happily married. Being in the police department is just like doing any other job, and all you need is to have faith in yourself, she says. Sreelekha speaks about her transformation from a dreamer to a tough cop and more. 

  
 
 
 There is a time for everything. Actually, I never knew Kerala didn't have women IPS officers when I was preparing for the civil service exam. And there were two Malayali women who got through IPS along with me -- Jija Hari Singh and Lathika Saran -- but they were posted in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu cadres. I just happened to get a higher rank and so was fortunate enough to be posted in Kerala. 
 
 I joined IPS at a time when the police had a bad reputation. Following the Thankamani incident, several women had complained that they were raped by policemen. A woman police officer was much needed to improve the image of the police. From the time I joined, I have been fighting for more participation of women in the force. It was a measly 4% of the force then, and I must have written at least 20 letters stipulating that the 'only males can apply' rule is a violation of the Constitution during the PSC recruitment of constables and that it should be removed. But special recruitment of women is happening and we have around 8-9% of women in the police force now. 
 
  
 
 
 
 I wouldn't say it was easy. I had to go through torture and harassment in the beginning. Right from the training period, many tried to prove that IPS is not meant for a woman. The trainers themselves and even the director at Mussourie told me that the training would be too difficult for a woman. Many even said an IPS woman won't be able to find a husband and will have problems in her marriage. Even when I came to Kerala, the reaction was like, 'a lady is coming to pollute the department', the exact words of a senior officer.
 
 When I got married, I was transferred to positions in which they felt I could get the time to get pregnant and raise a child. I never wanted those 'concessions'! I used to work doubly hard to prove that I could be as good as and even better than my male colleagues, during the first 10 years of my career -- be it night duty, traffic duty or attending autopsies.
 
 The first person to take a new path is the one to face all the thorns and stones on the way and I went through it all. I had a job with the Reserve Bank which paid double of what I got initially in the service. But I have absolutely no regrets. Each moment has been worthwhile, and there has not been a moment of boredom. Wherever I went, I have found work to do, even in the District Crime Records Bureau where I was posted under the pretext that I could 'take it easy'. It's a post for corrupt and inefficient officers. The message was loud and clear, that I was not needed in the force. During the entire 9-10 months, I went around the district, found that narcotics crimes topped the list, and conducted awareness classes in the schools and colleges in the area. We also did raids and the crime figures came down to 40% in the next survey.
 
  
 
 My mother. My father died when I was just 16, leaving behind my mother and four of us, my two elder sisters and my younger brother, who was just six years old then. Father had gone to accompany my eldest sister for her medical college admission where he succumbed to a cardiac arrest. It was like we lost the captain of our ship and were left mid-sea. My mother was a homemaker, not even a graduate. But she took charge and we owe it completely to her that today, my two elder sisters and brother are doctors, while I turned to civil service. She made sure all of us were married well too. Our lives have been beautiful. 
 
 At one point I had doubts whether I would make a good police officer as I was a dreamer of sorts, who writes stories etc. I had never even played a badminton match either, let alone rough sports. I like to laugh and smile a lot. But my mother told me, 'when it is something you have worked for and won, you will be able to find success'.
 
 My rank was 104, so I came under the first list for IPS, after IAS and IFS. 'You will get a home posting if you join IPS since you have a high rank, and I can be proud to say I'm the mother of the first woman IPS officer in Kerala', she told me then. That has stayed in my mind. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 Actually it was the training that transformed me. I was determined to make my body fit and even at Mussourie, I took part in cross-country races and horse riding. Initially, I would fail at everything and get shouted at. But slowly I started picking up. My love of horses helped me a lot, and I cleared the horse riding exam at the very first attempt. I completed the rock climbing exam too and learnt only later that several male trainees had failed to clear it. 
 
 There is a certain mental strength you get when you realise that you have made your body achieve things you never imagined it could do. That helped me immensely and is instrumental in making me what I am today. 
 
  
 
 
 
 CBI officers are under a lot of pressure to meet targets. And the police force sees a minimum of 12 suicides per year, due to stress. It was deeply saddening for me and it was my proposal to start a counselling centre for police officers. There are also officers who suffer from trauma after conducting a lathi charge or when they are forced to kill someone. Any police officer with a personal issue can walk in and talk to a counsellor for hours.
 
  
 
 
 Unless you know how to promote yourself, you will never get your due. I have often been transferred to a different department just as I began to bring about changes. But if you ask for a favour from someone, they will expect you to pay it back some other time and at times it may be something against your conscience. So I've always felt it better to accept things as they are. And I am getting the respect for being so. I find it a matter of self-respect that ministers working with me address me as 'madam'.
 
  
 
 
 It's just like any other job. No job is easy. If you have an understanding family, it helps. I married my childhood friend whom I've known from age five onwards, who was my classmate as well. 
 
 
 
 
 
 My husband, Dr Sethunath, is the head of the department of pediatric surgery at the Trivandrum Medical College. It's only in the past few years that we have been together. My son, Gokul, has now fopunded a start-up after his MBA. He has completed his civil service prelims but is more interested in enterpreneurship.
 
  
 
 
 
 I would like to spend the remaining few years of my service doing what makes me happy, and also wish to retire as Kerala's police chief. Because you can do a lot more things in that position.
 
  
 
  
 
