TRICHY: As the threat of water scarcity looms large over the city with the summer round the corner, the city corporation has rolled out plans to rejuvenate existing water head works and explore additional water sources. The civic body will spend over Rs 3 crore to improve yield which has been dropping in recent weeks.

 The city depends on the water head works in the   river bed for its   needs. The ever increasing water needs of the city has resulted in excessive extraction of ground water. 
 
 The problem has compounded over the months as there has been no significant water release from the Mettur dam into the Cauvery river. While ground water is extracted round the year, there has been hardly any rain resulting in depletion of ground water. 
 
 A total of 32 locations have been identified in the city to dig bore wells, of which 20 would be fixed with hand pumps and the rest would have motor pumps to extract water. 
 
 To augment water at head water works, an additional five bore wells will be dug near   in the Cauvery river bed. 
 
 A senior corporation official said, “Work is in progress to rejuvenate eight bore wells and infiltration wells besides cleaning of radial arms in four collector wells.” 
 
 “About 80 tanker lorries would be kept ready to supply water to areas which face shortage of water. We have identified 40 locations in the city where temporary water tanks would be kept to meet the water needs,” he said.
 
 Apart from de-silting the existing bore wells, the corporation is cracking down on those who are using motor pumps to extract water from home connections. 
 
 Facing similar shortage of water during October last year, the corporation had dug deep trenches around bore wells in the dry Cauvery river bed. It was to ensure percoration of water ahead of release of water from the Mettur dam. 
 
 The corporation maintains that the supply of water has not been affected yet and the measures were introduced to ensure that there is no scarcity during the summer. 
 
 
