RAMANATHAPURAM: N Lakshmi, the 58-year-old supervisor of   lodge in  , did not find anything suspicious when the 65-year-old well-built Pakistani man claiming to be a native of   sought a room for a cheap price. He submitted a copy of ‘his’ Aadhaar card following which room number 11 on the first floor was allotted without much trouble. Although the copy was not like the normal Aadhaar card which Lakshmi was familiar with, the unlettered woman thought the document may vary from state to state.

 Mohammed Yunus checked into the dingy room number 11 for Rs 150 a day. He did not interact much with the lodge owner even while booking the room as he claimed that he did not know Tamil. According to Lakshmi, he was found to be an amiable person. Most of the time that he spent in Erwadi he locked himself up in his room and was hardly seen during the day. Rarely did he venture outside and nobody saw him interacting with the locals. However, he was a regular at the tiffin centre run by Lakshmi in front of the lodge at nights to have a quick dosa or two.
 
 Erwardi, a religious place dominated by the Muslim community, is visited by people of all communities throughout the year. Hence, it was hard to distinguish between law-abiding ones and anti-socials. A Abdhahir, supervisor of another lodge, said “many come here and stay. Some come to hide after committing crime. It is hard to distinguish between them. And as long as the visitor has documents we have to give him room. When something goes wrong, we are pulled up,” he said.
 
 Lakshmi and her family members were shell-shocked when a police team landed there on Saturday noon and showed them a photo of the man they were looking for. As he had just gone out the team waited patiently till he entered the room when they caught him. Even as the police were questioning him inside the room, he tried to escape.
 
 A family member of Lakshmi, who did not want to be quoted, said, “When the police asked him to open a purse he carried, he took out a card from it and kept it with him. He suddenly coughed loudly and as if he wanted to spit he came out of the room and started running out. However, he was caught within a few metres of the lodge.”
 
 Police sources say that he did not carry much with him. Along with a couple of mobile phones, he had six sim cards and foreign currencies. Curiously enough, he also had some toys and children’s foot wears. When questioned, he claimed that he had bought them for his grandchildren in Sri Lanka. 
 
