BENGALURU: Citizens of Karnataka have to pay hefty   this year: the   (KERC) announced 48 paise per unit hike in tariff that is effective from April 1 meter reading. This is the highest tariff hike allowed for a single year in the last five years; in 2016-17, the commission allowed 30 paise hike and in the previous fiscal it increased only 13 paise per unit.

 On Tuesday, there were many firsts announced in the tariff order valid for financial year 2017-18. It is not a collective hike for all the five   (ESCOMs) but the hike has been calculated individually for Bescom and others. While the rural populace will shell 15 paise more, the urbanites will have to pay upto 40 paise more per unit.
 
 In Bengaluru, under Bescom, the tariff has been revised from Rs3 per unit for the first 30 units to Rs 3.25 per unit, from Rs 4.10 per unit to Rs 4.40 per unit for the next 70 units, from Rs 5.60 to Rs 5.95 for the next 100 units and from Rs 6.40 per unit to Rs 6.80 per unit for consumption beyond 200 units.
 
 The companies sought for a hike of Rs1.48 per unit.  , chairman of KERC said that the hike of 48 paise includes the loss that the companies have incurred in the last financial year (42 paise per unit) and six paise per unit is the cost of power purchase made by companies to meet the demand supply gap.
 
 Also for Bescom, three more slabs have been created in the tariff order 2017-18, for domestic consumers. M K Shankarlinge Gowda, chairman of KERC said, “Bescom filed another petition because the urban consumers in its jurisdiction particularly Bengaluru consume more than other parts of the state. We also believe that if people consume more they should pay for that. So we increased three more slabs for urban consumers and two more for rural consumers under Bescom.”
 
 Also, the peak hour charges of Re1 per unit during the morning peak hour between 6 am and 10 am for HT consumers is going to be levied for the first time (evening peak hour charges were already levied). And if the industries do not consume excess of sanctioned load, then they get Re 1 per unit rebate also.
 
 However, the main attempt of the distribution companies and the commission remained to retain industries that are going out of the grid, accessing renewable energy or power through the open market. Gowda said, “Industrial consumption in Karnataka is already very low and has come down by three percent in the last financial year. We have tried to encourage their consumption and thus, the tariff increase (20 paise per unit) for consumption beyond one lakh units is 50% less than increase in consumption upto one lakh units (40 paise per unit).” Effluent treatment plants under HT 2A category have been given 50 paise per unit rebate and educational institutions and hospitals have been categorized into separate category, where the tariff is hiked between 25 and 30 paise per unit.
 
 KERC has also upped the state’s contribution by way of subsidy for   from Rs 8838 crores to Rs 9938 crores, accessing the increased budgetary allocation made for IP sets from 18 units to 40 units per day. 
 
