Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Haryana Urban Development Authority (Huda) chief administrator to appear before it for failing to pay enhanced compensation to farmers for land acquisition in three villages in Fatehabad district. Justice Daya Chaudhary passed these orders on Friday while hearing a contempt petition filed by 86-year-old Atam Singh.

 While directing the Huda authorities to release enhanced amount of Rs 3 crore to the petitioner within a period of a week, Justice Chaudhary ordered the Huda chief administrator to appear in person before the HC on May 5.
 
 In July 2006, Huda had initiated the process to acquire land of three villages — Fatehabad, Basti Bhiwan and Matana — for developing residential and commercial sectors 9, 10, 11 and 11-A in Fatehabad. A total of 724.82 acre land was acquired. 
 
 While issuing the award in March 2008, land acquisition collector granted compensation of Rs 12 lakh per acre for Fatehabad and Basti Bhiwan land and Rs 24 lakh per acre for gair mumkin (uncultivable) land. For Matana village, a compensation of Rs 9 lakh per acre was fixed.
 
 Dissatisfied with the compensation amount, villagers had sought reference under Section 18 of the Land Acquisition Act. The reference court assessed the market value of the land at Rs 965 per square yard for all kinds of land.
 
 The villagers, however, moved HC seeking enhanced compensation. Justice Sabina of the HC on July 22, 2015, modified the compensation amount and ordered to enhance the amount to Rs 1,485 per square yard. As the Huda authorities failed to pay compensation, the petitioner and other farmers approached the HC, seeking directions to initiate contempt of court proceedings against officials for defiance of court orders.
 
 It is for the fifth time in a month that senior officers of the Haryana have been summoned in contempt cases for defying the HC orders. Earlier, the HC had summoned the chief secretary and even issued warrants against two senior bureaucrats. In one case, the HC had even held the senior officers of irrigation department guilty for contempt for not complying the court orders.
 
 Summons to senior officers in contempt cases
 
 April 19, 2017 | Upset over the non-compliance of HC orders by various departments of Haryana government, which is leading to unnecessary litigation in the courts, HC summons chief secretary D S Dhesi
 
 Apr 18 | HC held chief engineer (Bhakra water services) of irrigation department and his predecessor guilty of contempt of court 
 
 Apr 6 | HC issues contempt notice to chief secretary Dhesi for not implementing its orders regarding rehabilitation of acid attack victims
 
 Mar 30 | HC issues bailable warrants against two senior IAS posted with agriculture department for not implementing court orders
 
 
