By  

 I have often found palpable anger amongst some people against the profession of advertising. It appears to be visceral and deep-seated. What is it about advertising, I wonder, that evokes such waspishness?
 
 I once picked up a volume called ‘The Fontana Book of Modern Thought’. A respected tome on, you guessed it, Modern Thought. One expected it to be a balanced, scholarly work on topics that have shaped human thinking in modern times. For the most part, it was. Until it came to the header, ‘Advertising’. 
 
 That’s when it got apoplectic with rage, spewing abuse at the profession and its practitioners. One can almost visualise the author red-faced and quivering with anger. It’s amazing how the editors of such a work allowed a piece so patently biased and motivated to appear in such a serious encyclopaedia.
 
 I have never understood this kind of response. It’s not that you find particularly evil people in advertising. On the contrary, I have met the most wonderful, kind, gentle souls here. People with genuine warmth and a sense of humour one rarely finds in those from other walks of life. They are also a highly intelligent and talented bunch. Of course, you find the not-so-decent and not-so-bright types too. But then, that’s true for every profession.
 
 I concede that what advertising people do might be construed as trivial in the larger scheme of things. They are not solving the problem of world hunger or global warming, or finding a cure for cancer. But like it or not, advertising is necessary. And has been for millennia. Till mankind has something to sell, it will require the services of advertising in some form or the other.
 
 And mark my words, advertising is not easy. To do good advertising takes a highly specialised talent. Just like writing, or painting, or making a movie. And just like these, great advertising creates popular culture. It’s always easy to comment on a piece of work after it’s done. But try it yourself. You’ll be surprised how intimidating a blinking cursor on an empty Word document can be. Or a blank page for that matter. Or that naked feeling you get when you expose your creation to the world for their judgement or ‘feedback’. Ad people do it every day.
 
 There is this ‘scam ad’ thing that some people beat advertising over the head with, from time to time. It seems to be the crime of the century. “Creating ads for things that don't exist!” they scream with righteous wrath. “Just so they can win awards! Off with their heads!” Scam ads are bad. I agree. They must be stopped, and eventually they will. But while we are on the subject of scams, how about taking a look at some other, ‘nobler’ professions?
 
 Medicine? There are doctors we all know who prescribe tests and procedures, including surgeries, which are wholly unnecessary, just so they meet their revenue targets. They’re playing with people’s lives and health.
 
 Give me a scam ad any day.
 
 Politics? There’s a scam every day there. Scams that affect the lives of the poorest of the poor, making their lot even more miserable than it is.
 
 Give me a scam ad any day.
 
 The armed forces? Go through news reports of the last few years. Enough scams there too. Some of which can compromise national security.
 
 Give me a scam ad any day.
 
 Infrastructure? There’s a bridge or a building collapsing every other day because of unsuitable materials used in its construction, often killing scores of people.
 
 Give me a scam ad any day.
 
 The point is there are good and bad people everywhere. That’s humanity for you. 
 
 To castigate advertising alone is downright myopic. Isn’t it far better to use the immense power it has to move and motivate people for the benefit of society?
 
 (Author is executive creative director,  )
 
 
