MHOW: Shocking it may seem, an ashram of social worker and activist Dr  , who is popularly known as Baba Amte in the country and the world, is lying in a dilapidated condition but,   (NVDA) has already declared that it has come under submergence of   and has even paid compensation against it reportedly to a person, who was never associated with him. 

 The matter came to fore when 67-year-old Devram Kanera, a native of Khaparkheda village and one of Baba Amte followers put forth the demand of people for construction of a memorial at the ashram. During the process he came to know that as per NVDA survey report the ashram, which has not submerged yet, has been declared under the submergence area of the dam.
 
 Rajneesh Vaish, NVDA (rehabilitation) member, when asked about the issue said "It is true that compensation has been given for the ashram after survey report." However, he refused to comment on whether the amount was disbursed to a wrong person and the demand of people for converting the structure into a memorial.
 
  Kanera had accompanied Baba Amte from 1989 to 2005 during his stay at 'Nijbal,' the ashram under Choti Kasrawad village panchayat on the bank of Narmada River in Rajghat. Baba Amte lived with his wife Sadhna, who was lovingly called as Tai, at the ashram during this period. 
 
 "On the appeals of activists fighting for the people displaced due to construction of the dam on Narmada, Baba Amte came to the ashram. There he served the poor people suffering from leprosy, besides, supporting the Narmada activists. A large number of children belonging to tribal community would daily come at the ashram, where Tai would teach them," Kanera told TOI.
 
 Kanera said that after the death of Baba Amte his followers were demanding to convert the ashram into his memorial since he served leprosy patients just like Mother Teresa. Recently, he came to know that one Tulsiram Yadav, a resident of Kasrawad village was given compensation of Rs 6.5 lakh for the ashram.
 
 He has claimed that Yadav was not associated with Baba Amte in any way. 
 
 Another follower of Baba Amte, Rahul Yadav, 28, who also hails from the same village, said that his father Kailash and grandfather Sambhu would visit the ashram daily and undertake all the domestic works there. He also said that many of his followers had met collector, public representatives and officials at the capital city, Bhopal, with a demand of construction of memorial, but in vain.
 
