LUDHIANA: Despite claims, the fire department has not served even a single notice to the owners of those industrial units where fire broke out due to lack of fire safety arrangements. These units also had not taken no-objection certificates (NOCs) for the department.

 The officials admitted the fact that a few industrial units had taken NOCs from the department after making essential fire safety arrangements. In the past one month, nine major fire incidents had occurred out of which eight cases were reported in industrial units and most of these units lacked fire safety arrangements.
 
 However, the fire brigade officials claimed they are awaiting cabinet approval for the implementation of the Punjab Fire Prevention and Fire Safety Act to take action against the defaulters. The Act has been hanging fire for the past three years as the rules were not framed. Now the rules have been framed and it will go for approval from the cabinet. The officials claimed that it can be implemented all across the state in June.
 
 After every fire incident, the officials have claimed that they have issued a notice to the owners for not making arrangements to control the fire.
 
 The MC had even planned to serve notices on 55,000 commercial units for not getting   from the fire brigade department and a certain amount was also fixed for the NOC. MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh and fire officer have given their approval but Mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria has asked to put this proposal in the   for discussion.
 
 Assistant divisional fire safety officer Surjit Singh said at present there is no value of notice issued by the fire brigade department without the implementation of the fire safety Act. He said that once the Act comes into force, they would be able to impose penalty worth Rs 50,000 on defaulters and there is a provision of imprisonment as well.
 
 
 
 
 On April 26 fire at yarn mill in Industrial Area A extension leaving three dead and one injured
 
 On April 29 major fire at hosiery unit in Daulat Colony, GT Road, loss in crores
 
 On April 30 another major fire in bicycle manufacturing units on  
 
 May 1 fire incident engulfed   at Rahon Road
 
 May 5 major fire at chemical factory near Cheema Chowk in which two factories and 5 godowns gutted in fire
 
 May 7 fire at dyeing unit in Industrial Area A near Transport Nagar
 
 May 11 fire at Mallika Textiles in Industrial Area A near Cheema Chowk where four firemen received burn injuries
 
 May 17 fire incident at SEL Manufacturing Company
 
 
