It is not without reason that   continues to boom -too many people working in the core city where there is too little place to stay. While being away from the centre brings down rent, it   and  

 But a spatial order promising housing, work and relaxation within a small radius could be in the offing if the ministry of urban development implements `Transit Oriented Development' (TOD). The policy aims to bring people closer to public transit hubs by encouraging more housing, offices and recreation facilities around mass transit systems. TOD will address problems facing metros -unplanned growth, traffic congestion and pollution.
 
 Officials from Chennai along with those from other cities attended a workshop last week in New Delhi where the policy was discussed. For this policy to work, cities require an extensive network of mass transit systems. In Chennai, the proposed metro rail and bus rapid transit are concentrated in the core city and accessible to only 55% of the population, studies by Institute of Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) show.For these residents, a transit system is a 10-minute walk away . This drops to 39% for those in extended areas.
 
 But implementing TOD in Chennai's core area will be difficult, said Dharmendra Pratap Yadav , secretary to the state government, housing and urban development. It could be a reality on the Outer Ring Road, he said. “The existing transit corridors are congested,“ said Yadav. “The interior roads of the core city are narrow and see heavy traffic. Unless redeveloped, it will be difficult to implement. But we have to work it out.“
 
 To encourage more people to use mass public transport within the city , the policy will have to address coop eration among government agencies, planning authorities, the corporation and transport departments. Agencies have to work together to increase floor space index, promote vertical construction and ensure last-mile connectivity.
 
 But will people move into denser neighbourhoods for faster mobility and be surrounded by public spaces?
 “If the quality of life is better where residents get not only a metro line but also parks, water and other utilities, people will,“ said Raj Cherubal, direc tor-projects,   Connect.
 
 “There is a myth that when the density in the inner city goes up, so does the congestion. But it is parking and not housing which causes congestion,“ said Aswathy Dilip, ITDP manager.
 
 Under TOD, the government must prioritise suburban areas underserved by transit, said Karen Coelho, assistant professor,  . “ Affordable transport must be provided for more than 50,000 families displaced to Semmenchery and Kannagi Nagar. They are economically active members and depend on the core city ,“ said Coelho.
 
 
