HYDERABAD: Over 15,000 students took the joint entrance examination (Advanced) across four regional centres in Telangana on Monday to seek admission in one of the 23 premier Indian Institute of Technology in the country .

 As against 18,000 candidates who appeared for JEE (Advanced) last year, the number fell by 3,000 this year. Experts say an increasing number of students skipped the advanced examination despite qualifying for it.
 
 “This year, out of 2.20 lakh candidates who qualified for the advanced level, only 1.70 lakh registered for the exam.Students who secure just qualifying marks often don't take up the advanced level and seek admission in deemed universities or local institutions through state common entrance tests,“ said  , IIT programme in-charge at Narayana Educational Pvt Ltd.
 
 The total marks for JEE (Advanced) reduced from 504 in 2015 to a meagre 366 this year.According to the TIME institute, both papers carrying equal marks. Students felt the exam was comparatively easier this year, especially the Physics section in Paper 1 and Mathematics section in Paper 2.
 
 “The Physics section in Paper 1 was quite easy with not many questions having length calculations. Even mathematics did not require much calculation as a majority of questions were based on basic fundamentals,“ said Rajshekhar Reddy , an aspirant.
 
 Even Paper 2 was relatively easy to crack as it contained a mix of single choice, multiple correct choice and passage type single choice questions.“There was less   in Paper 2 and more positive marking for each correct answer,“ said Varun Teja, an aspirant. According to analysis shared by  , V-P of educational content at Toppr.com, every single choice question awarded students three marks for correct answer and docked one mark for an incorrect one.
 
  Multiple correct choice questions gave students four marks for fully correct answers, one mark for partially correct answers and deducted two marks for incorrect answers. Passage-type single choice questions got students three marks for correct choice, with no negative marks.
 
 “Introduction of partial marking in questions with one or more correct answers would have given some relief to students,“ said Aakash Chaudhry , director,   Pvt Ltd.
 
