NOIDA: The brewing 'clash of cultures' in   came to a head on Monday, when locals lashed out at 'Nigerians', mostly students from various  , residing in the area, with three African youths assaulted by Monday evening. Late on Monday, external affairs minister   tweeted, "I have asked for a report from Government of Uttar Pradesh about the reported attack on African students in Noida." At the time of going to press, Section 144 CrPC had been clamped on Pari Chowk area. 

 It all started with a protest against Greater Noida police releasing five Nigeria-born students because of lack of evidence. They were accused of causing the death of 16-year-old Manish Khari, who allegedly died of drug overdose in a private hospital on Sunday.
 
 Khari, a student of Class XII of a private school, lived with his parents in the NSG Society in Sector Pi II. He went missing on Friday evening, and was found in an intoxicated state in the society the next morning. He was rushed to a private hospital, where he died during treatment.
 
 The family suspected Nigerian students of having provided the drugs on which Khari overdosed. Around 500 residents and RWAs of Greater Noida societies, marched to the SSP office around 12 noon on Saturday and complained about 'police inaction'.
 
 Devendra Tiger, president of Golden Federation, one of the organisations leading the protest, claimed Khari had been lured by 'Nigerians' and introduced to drugs. Following this, police registered an FIR for abduction and murder against five Nigerian students - Usman, Amir, Kabir, Abdul and Sayeed - based on the complaint of the Khari family. They were released on Sunday for lack of evidence, while a group of foreign students gathered outside Kasna police station and held a protest. 
 
 "The boy's younger brother saw him being picked up by the Nigerians. The SSP has sought four days to resolve the matter," said Tiger. 
 
 The protesters later handed over a memorandum to the district magistrate. However, the protest soon turned violent, with a few men in the mob attacking three Nigerians passing by Pari Chowk. 
 
 At least two Nigerians, who were crossing the area in a Honda City, were injured. One had to be admitted to hospital. Later, a youth was beaten up inside Ansal Plaza premises, said an eyewitness. He had to be admitted in Kailash Hospital, Greater Noida. Another Nigerian was later beaten up at Pari Chowk. He too had to be admitted to the same hospital. A Nigerian was beaten up near Jagat Farm and was admitted to Yatharth Hospital.
 
 Police said they have arrested five people. 
 
 
 
 
