Who wouldn’t like to wake up to the chirping of birds on our windows and balconies? Thanks to hyper-fast urbanization that brings with it all the perils, this early morning pleasantry seems like a thing of the past. Making an effort to bring birds back to the city, initiatives are being made not only to provide a congenial environment for local species, but also the ones that migrate from different parts of the world.   — situated in   — now has a new set of burrows, all nestled within a biodiversity wall and tower. Backed by the BBMP and  , the project – 
  – aims to get more local species of birds to the areas around the lake, the chirping of which, in turn, will attract visiting birds during the year.

 
 
 “Considering the dwindling numbers of sparrows, bulbuls and crows in the city, making special efforts to conserve them have become the need of the hour. A lack of food and shelter, high-rise glass towers, road traffic and mobile signals are all together making birds more and more aggressive which are shooing them away from the city. It’s a challenging task, but we need to get them back. The Yediyur project has also installed a new sound technology at the site, meant particularly for the winged creatures. We also need more avian experts in the city and equipment in place to regularly monitor their movements and breeding methods. The city might also get a special vet hospital to cater to birds in the near future,” says Kannada actress  , who has been associated with this project for the past two years.
 
 
 
 A lot of things need to be taken care of while carrying out projects like these. From acquiring permissions for building aviaries, seeking approval from the Lake Development Authority to finding carpenters to build burrows, efforts need to be made at different levels. A lack of manpower and difficulties in transporting tall coconut trees and other trees such as the spathodea to the site is another issue. We also expect the Horticulture Department to plant more fruit-bearing trees in and around the city to attract birds. Besides, efforts are being made to create artificial rocky areas around the lake, stop the release of sewage water in the waterbody as well as ensure a steady supply of food and fish in the lake,” says  , environmentalist and founder of the trust.
 
 
 
 A shortage of food, water and breeding space
 Ever-increasing concrete cover
 Rising temperatures
 Pollution caused particularly by road traffic
 Radiation from mobile towers
 
 
 
 Install a nest box in your garden or balcony 
 Place bird baths around the house
 Set up bird feeders
 Keep your kitchen/terrace garden organic
 Create little brush piles, particularly during the breeding season
 
 
