PANAJI: Goa may be embedded with  , trondhjemite gneiss, but that apart, the tiny state is one of the geologically most   If you traverse Goa’s 3,702 sqkm, you will be walking across as many as 16 geological  , say geologists.

 While trondhjemite gneiss formations found at   has been recorded to be over 3.4 billion years old, followed by the gneiss formation at Palolem in Canacona, there are rock formations on the   beach belt, which date to 2.5 billion years. Compare this to the fact that modern mammals as wells as hominoids appeared on earth only 65 million years ago.
 
 “In Goa, only the laterite and the younger deposits of sand, soil and alluvium are of an age comparable (but often older) to the advent of human beings. The laterite, sand and soil seen today have formed in the last few million year,” records the book ‘Natural Resources of Goa: A Geological Perspective’, edited by Antonio Mascarenhas and Glenn Kalavampara, in its first chapter written by late geologist O A Fernandes.
 
 Scientist Nandkumar Kamat says not just at Anmod Ghat and Palolem do we need to create thematic ancient pre-cambrian geological parks to spread knowledge about the existence of this natural heritage, but also at “Dudhsagar/Colem/Castelrock and Chandranath/ Paroda”, where the other important rock formations have been identified.
 
 The age of the granites found at Dudhsagar and Chandranath are believed to be 2.6 billion years old.
 
 The gneiss and schists have folded several times and their merging with other newer rocks have led to different formations.
 
 “These trondhjemite gneiss rocks have undergone a change from ingenious rocks to metamorphic rocks over a long period of time due to heat and pressure. At many places, granite rocks have turned into gneiss because of metamorphism,” says geographer F M Nadaf.
 
 On the sea front, the changing sea levels have added to the complex rock outcrop on the coastline.
 
 “The rocks (metagreywackes) are similar to sandstones and were originally deposited in layers which were buried, mildly folded and metamorphosed over 2,500 million years ago. Subsequently, they were intruded by igneous melts in the form of dykes. 
 
 At present, after millions of years of uplift and erosion the headlands of North Goa expose these often gently dipping (tilted) meta-sedimentary beds. The presence of resistant dykes within these headlands is probably the very reason for the headlands to exist,” writes Fernandes.
 
