With the incarceration of AIADMK general secre tary V K Sasikala, what is now being intensely debated is how she would remote-control the party. Despite handing over charge to her nephew T T V Dinakaran, whom she appointed as deputy general secretary hours before setting off to Bengaluru to surrender before a court, Sasikala is bound to control the party and manage affairs from prison.

 But ethical questions are being raised about her appointment as general secretary and Dinakaran's credentials as her deputy. With uncertainty yet over Governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao's decision on a likely floor test and rumours of the faction led by chief minister O Panneerselvam planning to lay siege to the AIADMK headquarters, the larger issue is who will finally take control of the party, its assets and its trust.Besides a three-and-a-half year jail term, Sasikala will be barred from contesting elections for 10 years. “If it's a trade union, a conviction can be a disqualification. But the Election Commission rules do not disqualify a convicted person being party general secretary,“ said retired judge of the Madras high court Justice K Chandru. MDMK leader Vaiko ran his party from prison for 18 months from July 2002. In Sasikala's case too, she can send party communications through lawyers as any direction through prison authorities would be censored. Vaiko, who had sworn not to seek bail, was finally forced to do so as he found it difficult to run a party from prison.
 
 “In the case of Sasikala, she has appointed a deputy general secretary who, in the absence of a general secretary, will take on that responsibility. It will not create any bottlenecks,“ pointed out Justice Chandru. There have been instances in the past of party leaders not being removed from their posts just because they were in jail. Going to jail is not a disqualification. “The Constitution disqualifies you from being a people's representative but not from being a party leader.It's a paradox. It's a dichotomy between Constitutional set-up and bylaws of a party,“ he said.
 
 A similar case was that of Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Lalu Prasad Yadav, who was convicted in the fodder scam by a special CBI court in 2013 and was in the Birsa Munda Central Jail for two-and-ahalf months before he was released on bail. His convic tion disqualified him from membership of Parliament and also rendered him ineligible for contesting elections for 11 years.
 
 Prevented from taking an active role in politics when former chief minister J Jayalalithaa was at the helm, Sasikala may well remain general secretary. A few senior leaders in the OPS faction have challenged her appointment with the Election Commission. But a ticklish Constitutional issue may surface at the time of a byelection or election when the party general secretary has to sign the nomination papers.
 
 “Barring the BJP, the Left parties and the Congress to an extent, few parties have inner party democracy. The rest appear to be family enterprises. Perhaps, that's where the problem arises,“ said former chief election commissioner N Gopalaswami.
 
