MADURAI: With   round-the-corner and protests over the ban on   picking up pace, political parties joined in to stir the pot. Stressing that the Prime Minister should not prevent people of   from conducting their traditional game, DMK leader M K Stalin said it was not a sport of   or DMK, but of the people of Tamil Nadu. A few political parties participated in the demonstration even as people readied the arena in anticipation that jallikattu would be held this season. 

 The AIADMK and the BJP are continuing to cheat people of Tamil Nadu by making false promises that jallikattu would be held. The traditional sport, which was an integral part of the Tamil culture and the Pongal festival, had not been held for the last three years, said DMK treasurer M K Stalin.
 
 Addressing a demonstration in Alanganallur, 14km from   and one of the biggest jallikattu arenas in the state, Stalin said a similar demonstration had been announced by him on September 25, 2015 and DMK chief M Karunandhi was also to participate, but Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan intervened and wrote to Karunanidhi assuring him that jallikattu would be conducted the next year and asked them to cancel the demonstration. ``But, nothing happened,’’ he said. Members of DMK, Congress and local villagers participated.
 
 Stalin said the Supreme Court in its ruling on jallikatttu on May 7, 2011 said two Animal Welfare Board members would be sent to Tamil Nadu to see if the games were being conducted as per the guidelines of the court. It is the board’s report that resulted in the ban on the game, he said. 
 
 “When DMK was in power in 2010 we conducted the games successfully as per the guidelines of the court. It is AIADMK that is responsible for the ban on the game,” he said. There are nearly 50 members of AIADMK in the Parliament but none of them have the courage, to speak in favour of the game in Parliament. They don’t care about protecting the culture and tradition of the people here, said Stalin.
 
 ``We do not know if O Paneerselvam will be the chief minister tomorrow or not, but I would like to remind him that he has not kept his promise made to the people of Tamil Nadu, in 2015 that the jallikattu would be conducted,’’ he said. 
 
 
