NOIDA: Thirteen residents of a slum in Noida’s Sector 78, where most domestic helps working in Mahagun   live, have been arrested for participating in the mob attack on Wednesday morning on the condominium.

 Police said they made the arrests on the basis of footage of the mob violence captured by the society’s CCTV cameras. But the most significant finding in the probe so far has come from an internal camera at Moderne that shows Zohra Bibi — the maid who the mob believed had been held captive and had come to free — being escorted by Moderne’s guards at 6.08am.
 
 The mob had started gathering outside Moderne’s gates around half an hour before that, mobilised by Zohra’s husband Abdul Sattar. Residents said the attack started despite Zohra being found, after she went and spoke to them.
 
 Responding to a phone call made by this correspondent on Thursday evening, Sattar admitted Zohra had been brought down by the guards and handed over to him. “But her clothes were torn and she was not able to speak properly. She said her employer Harshu Sethi had thrashed her and snatched her mobile phone. This angered the crowed,” Sattar said.
 
 The genesis of the episode lies in an alleged confrontation between Harshu and Zohra on Tuesday evening. Harshu, who runs a playschool and lives in a ground floor flat with her husband Mitul, a merchant navy officer, and 7-year-old son Aryan, claims Zohra had stolen Rs 17,000 from her purse recently. Harshu confronted her about the “theft” on Tuesday evening during which Zohra allegedly confessed to having taken Rs 10,000. After this, according to Harshu, Zohra fled in panic, leaving her phone behind. Harshu also claimed she had reported the incident to the Moderne facility management staff, who had asked her to hold on to Zohra’s phone. Sattar, however, gave a different account to the police. He said the Sethis owed Zohra Rs 12,000, her salary for the last two months, and Zohra had made up her mind before going to work on Tuesday morning that she would ask Harshu to pay her. That evening, Zohra did not return home. Sattar paid a visit to the Sethis and then called police, who also scanned the Sethi household but did not find Zohra.
 
 Police are still investigating what happened between Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning. It is believed Zohra landed up at the apartment of Sucheta Singh, an elderly lady, she knew — on the 25th floor of a tower different from that of the Sethis — said she was feeling unwell and stayed there. 
 
 The internal footage that shows her being escorted out by guards at 6.08am on Wednesday is from the corridor of this floor, just outside the flat of Singh in whose house Zohra was found.
 
 Zohra’s claim that she was thrashed by Harshu is still under investigation, police said. Parshuram, SHO of Sector 49 police station where two FIRs have been registered — one by Mitul Sethi for the mob violence and the other against the Sethis by Sattar — said he had so far not found any footage showing Zohra being assaulted by Harshu. CCTV cameras, however, cover only areas outside homes.
 
 The arrests were made in a late-night swoop on the slum, situated next to Antriksh Golf View 1, during which a total of 58 people, including Zohra’s minor son, were detained for questioning, police said. Eventually, 13 of them — all men and daily labourers — were arrested. Zohra’s son was not among them. All 13 were produced in court on Thursday morning and sent to judicial custody. 
 
 The raid happened around 11.30pm with a large police party descending on the slum, and continued for an hour when most were asleep. Several slum dwellers fled, fearing arrest. “They started knocking on doors. When we refused, they threatened to break the doors open. When I opened the door, my husband was held by his collar and taken away,” said Majida Bibi.
 
 Circle officer Avneesh Kumar said, “We matched the identities of the suspects with the footage and arrested 13 people.”
 
