HYDERABAD: Power interruptions during rains and strong winds will soon become a thing of the past in the Greater Hyderabad region. To put an end to the problem arising due to the monsoon or any technical failure, the   has taken up a circular network of   and distribution system with 400 kv transmission lines and substations around the city. 

 While most of the circular network is ready, the rest at places from Ditchpally to Maheshwaram is expected to be completed in a month. Once the entire ring of 400 kv substations is completed, power can be drawn from different sources to resume supply in case of any grid failure or interruptions due to other reasons. During last week's rains, there were over 400 interruptions in the city alone. However, 90% of the interruptions were related to local problems at 33 kv and 11 kv substations. 
 
 “Transco has commissioned one of the longestlines-from Shankarpally to Suryapet, covering a distance of 230 km (460 circuit km)-a couple of weeks ago while another extra-high voltage transmission substation at Narsapur was charged in March this year. The Ditchpally-Maheshwaram 400 kv substation, which is being taken up by the  , is expected to be ready by next month,“ Telangana Transco director (projects and grid operations) G Narasinga Rao told TOI.
 
 Of the total 11 400 kv substations in the state, five have been completed around the city -Malkaram, Gajwel, Shankarpally, Mamidipally and Ghanpur. Apart from these five, the one at Maheshwaram is getting ready and one more at Dindi would further strengthen the power circuit around Greater Hy derabad, officials said.
 
 According to Transco authorities, the advantage with extrahigh voltage transmission lines and substations is that they can transmit bulk power for long distances directly from power generation centres. For instance, the Singareni Thermal Power Generation Unit at Jaipur in Mancherial district and the Bhoopalapally Unit are synchronized with the Gajwel substation. Similarly, Mamidipally substation is connected to Kothagudem Thermal  , Shankarpally to Srisailam and Ghanpur 400 kv substation is linked to Nagarjunasgar and Ramagundam thermal units.
 
 The state government has spent about `2,000 crore on developing island mode of transmission networks in the past oneand-half years. During its campaign for the GHMC elections, the ruling   (TRS) had claimed that the government had initiated works to have a circuit of transmission in order to rid the city of power outages.
 
 “Once the network is ready, there will be no power disruptions in city except during maintenance work or due to local-level problems like cable snapping, which can be attended to within a couple of hours,“ Telangana Southern Power Supply Company Limited's southern director (operations) J Srinivas Reddy said.
 
