PUNE: Special bulletins on heat waves in India, a monthly to nine-monthly dry conditions' forecast, experimental real-time forecast of the active-break spells of the monsoon rainfall and health advisories on vector-borne diseases from changes in the weather are services   (IMD) has planned through its newly formed climate research and services division.
The met department will roll out climate services for the country under the global framework for climate services of the  .
 
 A K Sahai, who recently took over additional charge as head of the division, told TOI that the focus will be to expedite IMD's focus on `services'.
 
 “IMD had earlier initiated climate services meant for the public and the government but a separate division has now been formed to accelerate the efforts,“ Sahai said.He is the project director of the monsoon mission at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology . Sahai said the new division will cater to providing more climate services to different sectors such as agriculture, hydrometeorology , health and energy .
 
 “A part of the services will look at releasing tailor-made seasonal forecasts for these sectors. Special bulletins on the incidence of heat wave will be released for people to take precautions. During the monsoon, bulletins on possible diseases due to the increase in the moisture and temperature will also be brought out,“ Sahai said.
 
 IMD has been monitoring the incidence, spread, intensification and cessation of dry conditions during the monsoon on a weekly time-scale over the country under its Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI).
 
 Soon, dry condition forecasts on monthly , quarterly , six-monthly time-scales will be put out which would indicate the impending drought scenario in the country in the subsequent months, Sahai said.
 
 “The monthly time-scale dry condition forecast, for instance, will indicate the dry , moderately dry and wet conditions in different regions of the country for the next 30 days. As of now, the weekly dry condition forecast or SPI measures dry conditions for the next one week during southwest and northeast monsoon,“ P  , head of the Climate Data Management and Services, Climate Research and Services division, said.
 
 The IMD recently started the NCEP Climate Forecast System version 2, a state-ofthe-art coupled climate model developed by   in the US. “The model generates forecasts up to the next nine months and will also be used to show experimental real-time forecast of the active-break spells of Indian summer monsoon rainfall, which was earlier generated by IITM,“ Sahai added.
 
 The model will generate subdivision-wise rainfall forecast which would be further used for dry conditions' prediction,“ D S Pai, head of the climate prediction group in IMD, said.
 
