THANE:  , aka  , the 24-year-old mastermind of the   that conned hundreds of US citizens of millions of dollars was arrested by the Thane police following his   late on Friday.

 “Thakar was picked up by our team from the Mumbai airport after he arrived from Dubai,” said Thane police commissioner  , who busted the multi-billion dollar racket in October last year.
 
 Thakar was on the run soon after the Thane crime branch raided nine call centres at Mira Road on October 4 following days of sustained tracking and gathering of intelligence on the murky goings-on inside the call centres. The call centre staff made calls to US citizens impersonating agents of the  , US equivalent of the Income Tax department, and coerced them to make payments running into millions of dollars. 
 
 More than 630 employees of the call centres were detained and 74 were arrested. Police seized 52 hard disks, high-end servers, DVR, laptops and equipment worth Rs 1 crore. Over 100 connections were found on each floor of the seven storied building. Later 197 suspects, including the directors, managers as well as some of the top employees of the call centres, were arrested said a police officer. As the raid was under way, Thakar learnt about it and fled to Dubai.
 
 TOI was the first to report the scam as well as that the mastermind is a 24-year-old techie eager for quick money and fast cars.
 
 Police sources said Thakar made a fortune from the con call centres and in a short span of time set up similar outlets in Gujarat as well. “At a very young age he has mastered the art of cheating people to achieve his dreams. He was brought up in the working class area of Nalasopara and lived in a one-room kitchen but dreamt of being rich and that too in a short span,” a police officer said.
 
 Witnesses and accused have told police that Thakar owns several high-end cars and is a multimillionaire. “Some of our seniors used to motivate us to get more business by holding Thakar as an example for his lavish lifestyle and flamboyance. He would often visit our call centre,” said an accused who is out on bail. 
 
 In October, 61 individuals, including Thakar, were charged by the US justice department for being a part of the scam. A copy of indictment is in possession of TOI. On October 28, 2016, the grand jury in the US District Court for the Southern District of Texas indicted 61 persons of which 32 of them are based in India who are linked to five call centers operational from Ahmedabad. Thakar is named as the call centre operator as well as payment processor.
 
 Police investigation had revealed that Thakar used to pay 30% of the amount to his US-based contacts for the role they played in the entire scam. Contacts’ role included getting US identities, operating from smaller towns and disposing of the used cards and other evidence. Sources said Thakar had contacts among influential people of Gujarat, which helped him get aides in the US.
 
 Sources said that these call centers of Mira Road seem to be a small fraction of the operations spread across the nation by the criminal cartel. “Thakar’s arrest will reveal all other aspects and the modus operandi of the scam and bring out the truth of the con call centre industry,” Thane police commissioner told TOI.
 
 
