NAGPUR: Former chancellor’s nominee on Nagpur University’s Management Council, Sanjay Khadakkar, has vehemently opposed NU’s move of handing over responsibility of conducting examinations to the colleges.

 The NU administration led by vice-chancellor SP Kane and pro-VC Pramod Yeole announced a new pattern of examination titled ‘50:50’ where colleges would be asked to share half of the exam burden. 
 
 It would be implemented from the forthcoming academic year (2017-18). Even   would replicate NU’s pattern. 
 
 It’s has been a dream project of the VC since he took over the reins of the university. He cited huge burden of exams, particularly after introduction of semester pattern, as the reason for the new formula.
 
 However, Khadakkar in his letter to principal secretary of Maharashtra’s Higher and Technical Education department and VCs of NU and AU, warned that ’50:50’ formula may violate Section 48 of ‘Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016’. 
 
 The section calls for assessing answer sheets, degrees, diplomas and certificates through central assessment system with proper masking and de-masking of the answer sheets and maintaining proper secrecy in the process.
 
 He said that the move would lead to universities failing to ensure transparency during evaluation process. 
 
 “Any evaluation process that affects human resource should be done with sincerity and honesty. The reason behind such a proposal is to ease the process and conduction of examination. But thinking rationally, this can’t be a solution for this problem,” he mentioned.
 
 Explaining his point, Khadakkar, also a former   (VSDB) member from Akola, said the vexed issue of absence of regular teachers in majority of the colleges of both the universities would be a major roadblock for the new pattern. 
 
 Private colleges as well as those ran by the government and the university did not have full-time teachers. Most of them recruited contributory teachers on temporary basis to avoid paying huge salaries.
 
 “About 40% teachers in all colleges work on hourly basis and it is not expected that they would conduct exams and evaluate answer sheets.
 
 “They are paid meagre salaries and exploited in many cases. They could not prodo justice to entire exam process,” he pointed out. 
 
 He suggested that universities could have taken help of information and communication technology (ICT) to deal with these issues. 
 
 “In this era of globalization, where the man has a resourceful access to the Internet domain, it can be feasible to use this mode to deal with administering the educational process,” he said
 
