BHUBANESWAR:  , Ekamra Villa and other areas which fall under ward 15 of the   (BMC) have been grappling with a civic nightmare comprising sewerage issues, lack of dustbins, open drains, sagging live wires and defunct tube wells. 

 Clamours requesting the BMC to fix these problems have fallen to deaf ears. In addition to open drains and lack of proper dustbins, the Rental Colony area also has exposed and unguarded electric power transformers. TOI found such a transformer near the community park in the area.
 
  "Children do not understand the dangers of open transformers. If they come in contact with them, god knows what will happen," said Gobinda Chandra Das, a resident of the area. Bare overhead wires also hang low near the VIP area, posing a threat to almost everyone. "We need aerial bunch conductors or cable lines instead of these," said Das.
 
 Meanwhile, in Ekamra Villa more than a thousand people struggle during the slightest of rains due to a connections between drains and the sewerage. Drinking water is in short supply here. There are 17 tube wells in the ward of more than 11,000 people, but none of these are in functioning condition. 
 
 "A drinking water project was started by the government in the ward on July 2 last year. A water point was set up at the Rental Colony, but the point is lying defunct since its inauguration," said Das. For the women in the Laxman Nayak slum, every day is a struggle. Mina Khuntia, a resident, said the construction of a road connecting the slum to the Rental Colony main road is a prime need of the hour.
 
 "Besides, not only are there are no dustbins in our area, several anti-social people gather near our locality and pass lewd comments at the girls every evening. Dacoity is on the rise here and all the women feel scared," said Khuntia. Corporator Samir Pradhan said he is aware of the problems being faced. "Anti-social elements have started creating a nuisance in my area. I have intimated the issue to the local police station and urged them to increase night patrolling in the ward," he said. 
 
 About the other civic issues, Pradhan said he has already informed BMC officials and city mayor. "I don't know when these will be sorted," he added. City mayor Ananta Narayan Jena said the BMC will write to the Central Electricity Supply Utility, Odisha, to sort out the dangling of bare live wires in the area. "We will request the Public Health Engineering Organization to complete the sewerage system work in Ekamra Villa area," Jena said. "I will direct BMC officials to supply dustbins and keep the locality clean, cover the open drains with cement slabs and solve other issues with the coordination of the locals," the mayor added.
 
