NEW DELHI: The   has indefinitely put off the   parliamentary bypoll, which was to be held on May 25, over law and order concerns.

 Stating that reports from the Jammu & Kashmir government revealed a further continuous deterioration in the situation and increase in incidents of stone-pelting, violence and rioting, the EC in an order issued around midnight on Monday rescinded the notifications dated March 17 and April 10 calling upon Anantnag to elect a member to the House of the People.
 
 Though originally scheduled for April 12,   was on April 10 postponed to May 25 after large-scale violence and record low turnout was witnessed in the April 9 bypoll in Srinagar.
 
 The EC order rescinding the Anantnag bypoll notification cited the mismatch between the nearly 68,700 Central para-military personnel sought by the state police for peaceful conduct of May 25 poll and barely 25,000 troops committed by the home ministry. Besides, it noted, the J&K chief electoral officer had warned EC of resistance on part of polling personnel to go to polling locations due to fear in their minds regarding their safety and security.
 
 "Having regard to the totality of the facts and circumstances and taking note of the fact that no improvement in the law and order situation is in sight, the Commission is of the opinion that this is not the opportune time to continue with the exercise of the conduct of bye-election from Anantnag...The bye-election...will be held by the Commission in due course when the situation becomes conducive to the holding of free, fair and peaceful election," the EC stated.
 
 A reading of the EC order virtually rules out a bypoll before October, in line with a request received from the state government. It cites the upcoming fasting month of Ramzan in May-June as well as the Amarnath Yatra due to take place from last week of June to first week of August. "The state administration is wholly engaged in necessary preparations for the celebrations of these two most important festivals...Besides, this period also is important tourist season...the continuance of model code of conduct in Anantnag...covering four districts of the state during this peak period of festivities and tourism will also adversely affect the daily lives of the people of the area," the Commission noted.
 
 As per report received by EC from J&K CEO on April 27, the main challenges for April 25 poll would have been security of polling stations, polling parties and EVMs; the security, transportation and logistics of deploying large number of Central para-military forces. He further reported that stone-pelting incidents had increased after the Srinagar bypoll, with 80 incidents recorded since April 10. Also, 12 militancy-related incidents had taken place in past 21 days.
 
 The state administration echoed these fears in its report sent to EC on April 28. It informed that separatists and anti-national elements, in addition to anti-election campaign, had launched extensive campaign on social media for mobilising youth and threatened the public against participation in polls by way of targeting political workers and families of police officers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
