CHENNAI:   of   (RGGGH) blocked the busy   on Thursday evening after a few visitors of a patient manhandled a   and a male house surgeon on Thursday. 

 The   brought traffic to a standstill for several hours as a result of which police registered a case and arrested Dileep, a relative of the student. 
 
 The trouble started after friends of Vijay, a student of Adhiparashakthi Engineering College, Melmaruvathur, admitted at the hospital, picked up an argument with duty doctor Dr Vinodha alleging that the patient was not being given proper care. They roughed up the duty doctor and also a house surgeon Ashuthosh, who was present in the ward.
 
 Vijay was admitted on Wednesday with multiple injuries in the septic ward based on a referral from a hospital in Melmaruvathur after he was assaulted for allegedly posting information about irregularities at the college.
 
 As the news spread, PG doctors on duty blocked traffic for more than two hours, raising slogans against the attack.
 
 Angry attenders and a few patients, who watched the agitating doctors, ganged up and began raising slogans against the protesting doctors. They alleged that there was a shortage of doctors, as many were on strike for more than a week, demanding the release of Dr Sudheer, a senior professor at Madras Medical College who has been lodged in a Lucknow prison following a complaint by a moneylender. Following the strike, many scheduled elective surgeries were suspended, and the administration had to deploy assistant professors and paramedical staff to deal with the shortage of hands during the day. 
 
 "We are poor people who come to the government hospital as we don't have money to spend. But here there are no doctors even to attend in case of emergency," said Santhanam, one of the protesting patients.
 
 The patients and relatives who were protesting claimed that three patients, who were rushed to the casualty ward on Thursday, died due to shortage of medical staff. However, RGGGH doctors denied the death of patients in the ward. "We make sure that enough doctors are there at wards like casualty," Dr Ilango, resident medical officer told TOI. "Those who are protesting in support of Dr Sudheer are students, so there is no question of shortage." Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association general secretary Dr Balakrishnan said, "Doctors often come under attack within hospital premises. We demand a two-tier security to ensure safety." 
 
