PATNA: The much-awaited   is back again at city’s   and has a variety of home décor items, beautiful dress materials and accessories to offer to its customers. The fair, which began on Tuesday, was formally inaugurated on Thursday and will continue till February 21.

 “This year’s Saras Mela, spread over an area of three lakh square feet, is based on the theme ‘Hunarmand Mahila, Khushhaal Parivar’. Organised by Jeevika, the fair has at least 350 stalls, representing 21 different states of India,” Jeevika’s administrative officer   Singh said, adding stalls selling mouth-watering delicacies had also been put up.
 
 Like previous years, there is a huge demand for wooden handicrafts, furniture and terracotta items. “Beautifully engraved wooden vases made of teak and sheesham are available between Rs 2,100 and Rs 3,200. These take no less than three days to be completed,” said Mohammad Imran, one of the sellers, pointing towards the tallest vase at his stall.
 
 Another stall owner,  , who had put up his stall last year too, said, “People are looking for terracotta cups, plates and vases. This year, I have put on display a fountain priced at Rs 6,500 and am curious to see who buys it.”
 
 City shopaholics can also buy dress materials at the fair. Different kinds of silk, linen and cotton fabrics are available at the fair. Katiya silk is available at Rs 800 per metre, Munga silk at Rs 2,000 per metre, Endi silk at Rs 700 per metre and Matka silk at Rs 500 per metre.
 
 Maheshwari saris made of silk and cotton with golden zari are also finding many takers. These saris are available anywhere between Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,000. Jute bags, on the other hand, are being sold at Rs 200 to Rs 300 per piece, earrings (sikki art) at Rs 50 and pickles between 200 and Rs 300 per kg. 
 
 Online transactions: With cash in short supply, stall owners are using point of sale machines and other online transaction facilities for the convenience of visitors. “Even stall owners are paying rent through cards this time,” Jeevika’s administrative officer Rajeev Kumar Singh said.
 
