PUNE: Sedentary lifestyle, lack of antioxidants in diet, high consumption of alcohol, smoking and physical inactivity have put city’s population at an increased risk of  .

 What is more worrisome is that these causes exacerbate cancer for those in their late fifties and sixties.
 
 Cancer of the head and neck is seen in city’s younger population thought it is mainly diagnosed among the age group of 55-65 years, followed by lung and oral cancer in Pune.
 
 In urban women, breast cancer tops the list; while cancer of the cervix is seen mainly in rural women, say experts.
 
 These experts’ observations are also corroborated by a study conducted by a Pune-based preventive healthcare organisation between January and December 2016.
 
 “There has been a perceptible rise in cases of head and neck cancers in Pune over the last few years. If you look at the data of cancer registries in Maharashtra, Nagpur recorded higher incidence of   in 2011 than other registries, including Pune. However, of late, cases of this type of cancer have increased in Pune too and now the city is on a par with Nagpur,” said medical oncologist Anantbhushan Ranade, president of  , a pan India body of practising medical oncologists.
 
 Elaborating, Ranade said, “Use of tobacco in any form increases the risk of head and neck cancer by about 10 times. Regular alcohol consumption of three units per day increases the risk by 3-4 times. However, if one consumes both tobacco and alcohol, the risk goes up 20 times.”
 
 The term ‘head and neck cancer’ encompasses a wide range of tumours that may occur in one of the several areas like nasal passages, sinuses, mouth, throat, larynx (voice box), swallowing passages, salivary glands, and thyroid gland.
 
 The commonest head and neck cancer site in India is the oral cavity (mouth) --- this is primarily due to excessive use of chewable tobacco products.
 
 Medical oncologist Shona Nag emphasised on educating children in schools and colleges to prevent them from falling into the addiction trap.
 
 “It is a commonly known fact that tobacco use either in the form of chewing or by smoking is injurious to health. Yet, the addiction to tobacco and its by-products like nicotine is so powerful that it is an extremely difficult habit to give up. The key lies in educating children in schools and colleges as this addiction starts young. The two most common cancer types in India, which are caused by tobacco, are cancers of the head-neck region and lung cancer,” Nag said.
 
 An ulcer in the mouth or tongue, which does not heal could be pre-cancerous signs and require immediate attention. A doctor should be consulted immediately if there is a change in voice or difficulty in swallowing, said Nag.
 
 A simple way of preventing this disease early, especially for tobacco users, is to have an oral examination done every six months. “The ideal situation of course would be to give up tobacco completely and help is available in the form of counselling and de-addiction aids such as nicotine gum, patches and oral medication,” Nag said.
 
 Preventive healthcare expert Amol Naikawadi, who carried out the study, said, “People from diverse walks of life should come together to educate everyone about signs, symptoms and early diagnosis which will improve survival from cancer and empower people to adopt healthy choices.”
 
 
