ROPAR: Dr  , associate professor and head, Department of Chemistry, IIT Ropar has been awarded the prestigious NASI-Scopus Young Scientist Award 2017 for his leading contribution in Chemistry. Dr   was chosen in the field of Chemistry from among many other scientists and researchers from other Institutes. He has been known for his outstanding work in the area of Catalysis, especially heterogeneous catalysis.

 Speaking to the TOI, Dr Rajendra Srivastava, Associate Professor and Head, Department of Chemistry, IIT Ropar said he was the one from amongst 110 applicants from across the country who was picked up for the prestigious award which is given to young scientists who are below 40 years of age. He said working towards developing a new class of nanoporous materials or develop synthesis strategies to improve the physicochemical properties of existing materials. Consequently, the synthesis and applications of microporous and mesoporous crystalline materials such as zeolites, metal oxides, polyaniline, hybrid organo-inorganic materials (metal organic framework), and carbon materials are being explored in his lab.
 
 Dr Srivastava said his research area will have a high socio-economic impact on the national and global front and he hopes to address several challenges which are being faced by our society. The award will also support him to pursue path-breaking research with a societal impact.
 
 Dr Rajendra Srivastava a master of science in chemistry from Gorakhpur University, Uttar Pradesh, completed his Doctor of Philosophy from the   (Work carried out at CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory, Pune). He worked as a post-doctoral research fellow at Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, South Korea and as a JSPS Fellow at Hokkaido University, Japan. He has published more than 110 research papers and has, to his credit, 7 international patents. His doctoral work was adjudged the Best Thesis Award for the year 2006 by Catalysis Society of India. He was shortlisted for the final round of INSA Medal of Young Scientist, 2012. His contribution received recognition in the form of Most cited author in Chemistry (6th rank) and Chemical engineering (7th rank)for the year 2011-15 compiled by National science and technology management information system (NSTMIS), in the   report.
 
 
