Mumbai: After injuries suffered in the 2016 Brussel airport’s blasts forced her to stay grounded for 18 months,   finally resumed office this week.

 Waiting to get clearances to fly, she has begun work with the   and is also involved in voice and accent training activities with Jet. The office is yet to give her a specific role based on her  .
 
 “Sitting at home could be depressing sometimes. I enjoy working and it feels good to be back,” said Nidhi, adding that she has started working only three to four hou-rs a day. “I share my story with the new batches joining the organization. I have given a session on voice modulation too. They want me to help them on special projects, but nothing has been chalked out yet.” 
 
 Her doctor has given her permission to do ‘light work’ for only a few hours in a day. “My injuries have not healed completely. My calcaneus (heel bone) is hollow...a few of the metatarsal bones are missing. I have lost about 50% of the sensation in my right foot,” said Chaphekar. She also has to wear silicon-based gloves till May 2018 to level the skin around the hand, which underwent grafting for burns.
 
 Apart from giving talks and receiving bravery awards on various platforms, Chaphekar has penned down her experiences during the blasts and is waiting to sign a contract with a publication. “I am ready with my book and am in the process of finalizing a publisher,” said Chaphekar. Joining a global NGO working in the field of education is also on her wish list now. “I am very keen on working on issues faced globally in girls’ education. I have written to Malala as I am keen on joining her movement,” she said.
 
 Chaphekar is looking forward to flying again. Her colleague, Amit Motwani, who was also one of the injured during the blasts that killed 32 and injured over 300 people, has managed to get the medical clearance to fly again. Motwani, however, is on leave. Once Chaphekar is declared fit, she is also likely to get an all-clear from the authorities to fly again.
 
