KOLKATA: The city woke up to  , triggered by an approaching western disturbance and a  , on Friday morning. With a thick cloud cover preventing the sun from breaking in, the morning remained wet and damp. The drizzle didn't last long but the cloud cover persisted through the day. It could remain gloomy till Saturday afternoon when the mercury could drop by a degree, according to the   (RMC). On Friday, the minimum shot up by 3°C to touch 18.2°C.
A cyclonic circulation over Uttar Pradesh and another one over Bangladesh led to the cloud cover, explained weathermen. “The approaching western disturbances had precipitated the cloud. It led to the infusion of moisture that made the conditions ideal for a drizzle. But the cloud cover is set to dissipate by Saturday afternoon, following which the mercury will drop,“ said RMC director  .
 
 While the drop is not going to be a significant one on Saturday, the minimum temperature could plunge by 3°C on Sunday and Monday, Das added. “Once the cloud cover goes and the ground radiation diminishes, the mercury will fall. On Sunday and Monday, it could hover around 14°C,“ said Das.
 
 But this may not be the last mercury plunge this season, the Met office added. Temperature keeps fluctuating till early February in Kolkata. “Depending on the flow of north-westerly and western disturbances, you can't rule out another chilly spell. There have been instances of the mercury dipping to the season's lowest in early February ,“ said a weather expert. Scanty rain on Friday may have taken Kolkata by surprise, but it wasn't very unusual, according to Das. “Rain is common in the latter half of winter. It is usually triggered by western disturbances and helps to lower temperature,“ Das said. If it snows in the Himalayan region, the icy winds could return and reduce the minimum temperature in Kolkata around January 27-28, it had been predicted. “While the disturbances moved closer as had been expected, the cyclonic circulations helped. It has pushed the mercury up but will eventually lead to two days' of chill,“ said Das.
 
