AHMEDABAD: The Shodh Yatra, a journey to unexplored places in search of grassroots innovations, begun by   aptly depicts his work. Prof Gupta retired from the  , on Saturday.

 Prof Gupta, who was awarded the   for his distinguished contribution to management education, was far away in Berlin, attending an international conference, when he retired from the IIM-A.
 
 Prof Gupta, who joined the institute as faculty member in the Centre for Management in Agriculture in 1981, was not restricted to classroom teaching and continued to absorb learning and innovations from far-flung regions of the country. Prof Gupta, a science graduate in Agriculture and MSc in Biomedical Genetics from   and a fellow of The   in California, stepped out of his classes to look for innovations. The Shodh Yatra was one such campaign, which he started in 1998. There have been 38 Shodh Yatras thus far.
 
  In 1988-89, Prof Gupta established the Honey Bee Network (HBN) to nurture grassroots innovations. Prof Gupta also established the Society for Research and Initiatives for Technologies and Institutions (SRISTI) in 1993 and Grassroots Innovation Augmentation Network (GIAN) in 1997 to scale up and convert grassroots innovations into viable products.
 
 In 2000, he set up the   (NIF) which has collated a database of more than 225,000 technological ideas, innovations and traditional knowledge practices from 585 districts of the country.
 
 Last year, Gupta played a key role in creating Prayas, a school for underprivileged children, which is now run by IIM-A students.
 
 Professor   Nanda, director of IIM-A, hailed Gupta as a giant among academics. “His innovative thinking, action-oriented research, practice-sensitive teaching, innovative course development, and empathy to the capacities and needs of the grassroots together make him a unique individual. IIM-A acknowledged his contributions to the institute and society by recognizing him last year as the outstanding researcher on the faculty,” Nanda said.
 
 “Retirement is but a signpost on life’s journey. Nobody at IIM-A can imagine Anil retiring from his pursuits. As he continues with his multiplicity of projects, Anil has promised to maintain close ties with IIM-A. We are grateful and confident that the institute will be the richer from his ongoing engagement,” added Nanda.
 
