KOLKATA: A feeling of elation and a sense of detachment -that's what drives youngsters to  . While smoking it could indeed be a “liberating“ experience, over-use could alter the functioning of the nervous system, triggering heart attacks or fear psychosis, say experts. 

 Other than affecting the lungs and memory , it reduces cognitive abilities and blunts reflexes. And while it is less dangerous than hard drugs, there is one very worrying thing about it: for a large number of youngsters, it often is a `gateway drug' to more dangerous substances.
 Among all commonly abused substances, marijuana is the “most addictive“, said  , director of neuro-rehabilitation,   .
 
 “It directly simulates the hypothalamus of the central nervous system, opening up the neuro-transmitters. This gives one a euphoric feeling and temporarily frees the user of stress and anxiety . So, dependence on marijuana develops quickly and easily said.
 
 ,“ he Its term impact long could be fatal, said Debashish Saha, consultant,  . “Marijuana leads to increased adrenergic activity in the nervous system, often increasing the pulse rate. This could cause heart attacks. It could even reduce the efficiency of the lungs. But it has a lasting effect on appetite, mood, pain and memory . While prolonged use of the substance kills appetite, affects control of emotions and memory , which could be permanent,“ he said.
 
 A study of marijuana users in Kolkata reveals that the majority belongs to the 14-18 age group. This is the group which is most likely to engage in gro up activities and act under peer pressure, experts feel. “Since it is easily available and cheap, youngsters tend to experiment with it and get hooked. While it is not as harmful as so me other drugs, it often leads to acute fear psychosis and even lunacy . Ge nerally , prolonged and heavy use triggers it,“ said J Ram, con sultant psychiatrist, Apollo Gleneagles Hospital.
 
 Fatal overdose of marijua na is very rare, Das said, ad ding, “It is not as acutely toxic as heroin and leads to a gradual decline in memory and cogniti ve abilities, which are usually reversible.“ But it needs to be curbed since it is a `gateway drug', usually leading youngs ters to more toxic substances like ketamine, barbiturates or heroin, he felt.
 
