Trichy: While delta farmers are getting ready to take up samba cultivation following the government announcement to release water in Cauvery from Mettur reservoir on October 2, they have expressed displeasure over the package announced. They say that the Rs 41.15 crore declared by the government for the entire state would not benefit even 50 per cent of the farmers.

 While urging the government to enhance the amount to Rs 150 crore, they also appealed to the government to increase the quantum of water to be released to 20,000 cusecs so that the water would reach the tail-end areas.Since there was no kuruvai for the last six years, farmers are keen to go ahead with samba cultivation trusting the assurance given by the government. When compared to last year’s Rs 65 crore, the amount announced for the current year was very meagre. The package was usually meant for pump set holders. 
 
 They point out that all expenses have been skyrocketing post GST. Within 10 days the kuruvai harvest would be completed, but the amount announced (Rs 54.65 crore) for those who took up the cultivation had not yet been disbursed across the delta districts, said the secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, Swamimalai R Vimalnathan.
 
 The general secretary of Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Welfare Association, Mannargudi S Ranganathan, said, “The decision has been taken with full faith that the ensuing monsoon will be normal. The water level crossing 90 feet at Mettur dam is also encouraging. I hope with a little further reduction in flow we will get 95 feet before October 2.” He said one worrying factor was the very bad groundwater situation in the coastal area under Vennar division. 
 
 District secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam (affiliated to CPI) Ayilai Siva Suriyan alleged that the agriculture department had a list of farmers with it. Every season, only those farmers were disbursed the package. He urged the PWD officials to clean at least the vegetation blocking flow before water reached Grand Anaicut on October 5.
 
 
