NAGPUR: The   ( ) at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) completed 20   on Wednesday. These include one cadaveric  . Interestingly, in the 19 live transplants, 17 donors are women.

 The first transplant was done in February 2016. “It is a matter of pride that 20 successful transplants took place in the last one year and five months. Three transplants have been done this month so far. It is a great achievement and deserves appreciation as the transplant surgeries are being done with limited resources,” said Dr MP Parchand, officer on special duty (OSD) for SSH.
 
 Dr Charulata Bawankule, professor and head of nephrology department at the SSH, said though all these surgeries were being done in the CVTS operation theatre, the modular OTs for   transplant were almost ready and could become functional son. 
 
 “Of the 19 live donations, 11 were done by mother, two by sisters and four by wives. Only two donations have been by fathers. It shows the grit and determination of women,” she said.
 
 Devidas Chahande, a 64-year-old man is the oldest among all recipients while the first recipient Mariya Afreen Sheikh is also the youngest as she was 19 years old at the time of transplant. Chahande was donated kidney by his 56-year-old sister Baby Mate.
 
 This year, 11 transplants have been done — one each in January and April and two each in March, May and June, and three in July.
 
 Dr Sanjay Kolte, senior urosurgeon who did all the transplants with SSH team, says though there is nothing big in conducting a live kidney transplant, it’s different when a poor kidney patient gets a new lease of life in a government hospital. “It is good to serve the poor free of cost,” he said.
 
 Dr Sameer Choubey, honorary professor of nephrology at SSH, said he was just trying to pursue his father BS Choubey’s dream of serving the poor. “Father always dreamt about starting a post graduate institute when he was the GMCH dean,” said Dr Choubey.
 
 The other team members comprise of Dr Dhananjay Selokar, Dr Kunal Meshram and Dr Nilesh Nagdive, urosurgeons, Dr Vishal Ramteke and Dr Vandana Admane, assistant professors in nephrology, Dr Vijay Shrotey professor and head of anaesthesia and Dr Amol Thakre, anaesthetists. Dr Sheikh Mehraj and Mangala Ashtankar are the transplant coordinators.
 
 
