JAIPUR: A team of   has reached Jaipur to take 108 child labourers rescued by state government from city.

 Over the past few years, Jaipur has become a hub for  , where children from   and Jharkhand come to work in manufacturing units of bangles, gem polishing and in aari-tari.
 
 The children narrated their ordeal they faced in the life. An 8-year-old child labour from Bihar told officials of one stop crisis management centre for children (OSCMCC), which is providing support for sending them back home, that his father has severe respiratory problem. “He told us that his father was ill. So, he took Rs13,000 and send his son to Jaipur for work,”   said, who is incharge of OSCMCC.
 
 He said that there was a 9-year-old boy who was sexually harassed by owner of the factory where he used to work. “A case under   has also been registered in police station,” Goyal said.
 
 Others also narrated their plight of being a child labourer. “Majority of them belong to poor family,” he said. There are two children, who lost their mother and father. Their brothers sent them to work in Jaipur taking Rs5,000 from the agents.
 
 Now, the state government in support of NGOs and OSCMCC, will help the children in their rehabilitation. The district administration will issue these children certificate of bonded labourers so that they would get the benefits of schemes formulated for bonded labourers. Officials said that the Centre also provided financial help to such children after being certified as bonded labour. Moreover, they will also get the benefit of schemes which are meant for BPL families. Moreover, their education and health will also be taken care of.
 
 Among 108 children, 84 belonged to Gaya in Bihar and eight belonged from Samastipur. The others belonged to districts like Patna and Nalanda.
 
 The 108 children are staying in five different care homes run by government and NGOs.
 
 Earlier also these children were staying in care homes run by the government and NGOs as well. There are around 21 child labourers, who have been staying in the care homes in Jaipur since September. After four months of the rescue, a team of Bihar government reached Jaipur to take them back home.
 
 The state government was in touch with Bihar government for a long time to help the rescued children go back home.
 
 These children were rescued between September 2016 and January 2017. But as Bihar government officials did not come earlier, these children spent four months in care homes. The government did not initiate the process of handing over the rescued children to their parents claiming it would affect their rehabilitation.
 
