BENGALURU: Sending a strong message to his detractors in the party, the   on Friday officially named Karnataka party chief   as its chief ministerial candidate.

 Yeddyurappa becomes the second person after Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal to be confirmed by the   national leadership as its CM face. Yeddyurappa’s candidature is of relevance because it is an indicator of the party’s strategy to woo   in the state.
 
 With the numbers officially not out on which community is the largest as per the caste census commissioned by chief minister Siddaramaiah, the Lingayats are still considered to be the highest, with Vokkaligas coming a close second. It may be recalled that of the 22 chief ministers of erstwhile Mysore state and today’s Karnataka, as many as eight hailed from this community.
 
 With a Lingayat face, the BJP appears to be carving out a caste combination that will include traditional supporters, the Brahmins, with efforts to rope in the dalit vote bank.
 
 The reiteration of Yeddyurappa as CM candidate is also being seen by BJP party workers as a clear message to dissidents in the state unit to accept him as their chief who’ll lead them to the 2018 polls.
 
 "There was a lot of chatter in the party that Yeddyurappa wasn’t the only one who can lead the BJP. Today, this talk has been put to rest. A clear message has been sent to all those who tried to oppose Yeddyurappa’s decisions that he’d be the undisputed leader," said a party functionary.
 
 However, state BJP general secretary C T Ravi said there is nothing special in the announcement. "The dissidence was related to Yeddyurappa’s style of functioning and not his candidature. Am-it Shah has reiterated what was announced much before and will be announced 10 more times before the elections," he said.
 
 Over the last few months, there has been a growing rebellion within the BJP state unit, with opposition leader in the legislative council K S Eshwarappa being a vocal dissident of the state president’s policies. Joining him in their opposition to Yeddyurappa were MLC and former vice-president of the state unit Bhanu Prakash and Nirmal Surana, along with BJP national organisation secretary B L Santosh.
 
 
