AHMEDABAD: A 14-year-old girl, Renu (name changed), was   by two persons after she fled from her residence on March 12, fearing rebuke. The rape came to light after the son of one of the accused took her to police, and then to her home. 

  have arrested three persons in connection with the case after Shaherkotda police checked facts and arranged for the girl to be sent home.
 
 According to Paldi police, the chain of events began with the Renu’s sister-in-law picking up a call from the girl’s boyfriend, later identified as Dinesh Thakor, at about 7.30 pm on March 12. Thakor had hung up, but Renu fled home in panic of being scolded as she lived at the residence of her elder brother. Later, her sister-in-law, who works as a domestic help in a bungalow in Paldi, reported the disappearance of Renu, a class IV student, to police on March 13.
 
 “Meanwhile, Renu had left home to meet Thakor. After she went missing, her sister-in-law had called up Thakor to inquire of her where abouts,” said an investigator, adding, “Thakor came to her residence and said that he had dropped her near the residence.”
 
 Investigators said that after leaving home, Renu had come to know about Thakor’s visit to her home and she panicked and went to Vasna bus stand at night. From there, one Sanjay Rajput had picked her up promising to provide her shelter and a job. He later raped her. A colleague of Sanjay, Kalusingh Rajput, had also molested her, according to her statement.
 
 Both Sanjay, and Thakor, who works as a  , have been arrested for rape, where as Kalu singh has been arrested for helping the accused in the case.
 
 “She was found from Saraspur and was brought back,” said an investigator.
 
 When Kalusingh’s son saw Renu’s plight, he offered help and took her to police. 
 
 Chandkheda cops nab 2 for rape of minor
 
    have arrested two persons in connection with the rape of a 16-year-old girl from the area. According to investigators, Abhishek, a resident of Chandkheda, had promised to marry the girl. She mentioned that she was taken to various places such as Agra, Palanpur and Mount Abu by Abhishek over past one month and developed physical relationship against her wishes. Police have also nabbed one Jayendra, who had helped Abhishek according to the girl’s complaint. Investigators said that they have also applied sections related to atrocities as the girl is from dalit community. 
 
