LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi 
  called upon developers to build trust among buyers to promote their business. “Lack of trust is a big issue between   and buyers and incomplete projects create big problem for the state,” the chief minister said on the concluding of day of the conclave organised by Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India ( ) here on Sunday.

 Citing the example of the National Capital Region (NCR), the CM said: “We come across a lot of complaints from Noida and greater Noida. Over 1.5 lakh buyers have deposited money but have not been given the possession of their houses. Some builders have taken positive step after our efforts, but many are yet to act. If dialogue doesn’t lead to solution in this regard, the government will have to take tough measures,” appealing to developers to avoid such a scenario.
 
 The CM said the developers need to look into their practice of purchasing land arbitrarily and constructing a housing project without bothering the required civic paraphernalia. “The burden, eventually, is on state government, which has to provide road, electricity, drainage and sewerage. Putting in place such facilities requires a lot of investment,’’ Yogi said.
 
 There were signs of disagreement between the state government and the real estate developers with the CM asking them to get themselves registered under Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) act through a web portal scheduled to be launched on July 26 and the latter claiming the facility being provided too late. The last date for developers to register under the   act is July 31.
 
 Yogi said the state government was trying to remove red-tape by providing an online registration facility for registration of developers before July 31. “The developers need to abide by the trust of the people and the state government and ensure transparency in execution of their housing projects,’’ he said. 
 
 CREDAI president Jagshay Shah, however, said the web portal had come up too late. “Any such facility could have come up a year ago when RERA act was announced. Former urban development minister Venkaiah Naidu has been calling up on the state government to set up the RERA authority but his call did not elicit any response. Around four months have passed since the new government took over in UP but it did not take any step in that direction,’’ said Shah, speaking to reporters on the sideline of the seminar. 
 
 Shah said getting registered with RERA is a time taking process which cannot be completed so easily. “Getting one project registered may take at least four to five days. Practically, it is impossible for a developer to meet the deadline...nevertheless, developers would try to register...they have no other option, after all,’’ he said. Shah expressed surprise how out of nearly 12,000 developers operating in UP only three got registered under RERA in UP. 
 
 Shah also said that it is highly unfortunate RERA held only developers accountable for delay in a housing project. “The role of state government and bureaucracy should also be taken into account,’’ he said, adding CREDAI already had a consumer grievance redressal unit.
 
 Earlier, the CM urged the real estate developers to provide cost effective houses for poor. One should take care of the fact that cost of a house being built is not out of reach of poor people in the state, he said, adding “the UP government has made a target to give free houses to 10 lakh families this year. Of which, money had been sanctioned for 6 lakh famlies.” 
 
 The CM also cited example urban development department which has come up with house model which has two small rooms, a toilet, bathroom and kitchen worth Rs 3.34 lakh. 
 
