BENGALURU: Spewing   for allegedly indulging in character assassination, Karnataka legislators on Wednesday demanded the government come out with a legislation to regulate content in news channels.

 Cutting across party lines, members of both houses launched a tirade against news channels for sullying their image. There are 13   news channels and over a dozen English and other language channels in the state.
 
 Karnataka Janata Paksha (KJP) MLA B R Patil, who raised the issue in the assembly, appealed to speaker K B Koliwad: “Please give us protection from   or else we cannot continue in public life.”
 
 Patil alleged he was a victim of electronic media’s recklessness on two occasions —first, when his casual chat with a few political friends ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls was equated with horse-trading. A recommendation letter given to a woman teacher was misinterpreted wrongly. “The competition for television rating points (TRPs) is destroying lives and families,” he rued. Referring to political spoofs in news channels, Patil asked: “Have TV channels become circus companies?”
 
 K S Puttannaiah of the   (KRRS) alleged news channels smacked of indecency with regard to usage of words. Referring to an incident when a crow perched itself atop chief minister Siddaramaiah’s car, Puttannaiah said: “News channels not only portrayed the helpless crow as a bad omen but also projected Lord Shanishwara, who is revered by many, in a negative manner.”
 
 BJP’s B Suresh Gowda, who was in the spotlight after a video went viral showing him raise his hand on a toll booth manager, said: “I was angry with the toll operators for not blocking a lane meant for emergency vehicles, but electronic media called me a ‘rowdy MLA’. 
 
  (BJP) alias Rau Kage, who was recently arrested on charges of attempt to murder, said: “Electronic media described me as ‘goonda Raju’ and ‘Bihar Raju’. Cops said they had to arrest me following pressure from news channels. Did I rape someone or indulge in terrorism? There was a point when I contemplated suicide.” 
 
 JDS MLA S R Mahesh demanded the government prescribe educational qualifications and experience for television channel reporters. Recounting how a wedding videographer in Mysuru went on to become the head of the news desk in a TV channel, Mahesh said: “Imagine what would happen to the quality of news if all and sundry manage channels.”
 
 In the legislative council, BJP member   alleged electronic media was sensationalizing private matters by projecting them as ‘breaking news.’ Joining her, Congress MLC V S Ugrappa stated: “Politicians have become punching bags for media. But has anyone thought how some journalists have managed to build palatial houses and buy multiple cars?” Anuradha took a dig at some Kannada entertainment channels for portraying children as ghosts and evil spirits. She also took objections to some teleserials which depict women in a bad light.
 
 Health and family welfare minister Ramesh Kumar said a channel claimed he had looted forest land without bothering to verify the facts. “When I visited the channel’s office to give my version, they denied me a chance,” he added.
 
 Home minister G Parameshwara said a state committee has already been established to look into the content of cable TV networks and it had issued notices to a couple of Kannada channels for portraying children in bad taste in teleserials. “The channels have not responded and stringent action will be taken against them, he added.
 
 
 
 
 Speaker K B Koliwad said a house committee will be formed to look into measures to curb the freedom of both electronic and print media. “It will be formed within the next two or three days to ensure media functions within a certain framework,” Koliwad said. “The legislature has long hands and can take on anyone and anything. The committee will help prevent publishing of defamatory news against legislators without proof or comments from them. While we respect the freedom of speech and the press, content should not be defamatory,” he said. The speaker was in the news recently, when he denied allegations by a media house saying he had flouted laws to get co-operative society sites for his two daughters. 
 
 
 
 
 Recounting his bad experience with media, after allegations by his political rivals suggested he had siphoned Rs 845 crore in the name of development works,   S T Somashekar went to the extent of publicly abusing media. “When they could print and telecast the allegations levelled against me, despite me producing documents showing I didn’t receive such huge sums, my version was never carried,” he said.
 
 BJP MLA Lakshman Savadi said such unparlimanetary language should not be used, and the speaker said they would look into the issue.
 
 
 
 Vinisha Nero, the sole anglo-Indian MLA, said Bengaluru’s image has been tarnished. “With media blowing the mass molestation case out of proportion, people are questioning women’s safety in Bengaluru. I was asked by a few outsiders whether women have to be indoors by 7pm. It has hurt Brand Bengaluru,” she said. Nero said the incident of an MLA putting his arm around her shoulder and poing for cameras inside the house was also mimicked by a private Kannada channel.
 
