ROHTA: Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Ajit Singh on Tuesday said that there were no chances of the   winning this time “as all the promises it had made to the youth and farmer community turned out to be false.” Addressing a rally in Rohta village of Sivalkhas assembly constituency, 15 km from Meerut city, he said, “Last time, it was only because of the polarisation post the Muzaffarnagar riots that the BJP managed to win the 2014   elections. But now the people have seen the reality of BJP -- the broken promises and its communal politics.”
 
  Speaking of the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots which created a rift between the Jats and Muslims in the western UP, and wrecked the carefully-crafted social equation considered to be the strength of RLD in the region, he said, “The BJP created social tensions between the two communities which led to the riots. It was a well planned and executed plot of the BJP. That is the only reason that they won the 2014 elections, where they won 73 out of 80 seats in UP. They only won because of this polarisation. Their only job is to divide people. We are here to get people together. We will not allow people to get divided. We will not allow the BJP come to power.”
  
  In a well-attended rally, Ajit Singh launched an offensive against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Modiji knows only two things: to speak well and dress well. He changes his clothes four times a day, you can learn about fashion from him. He also speaks well. He makes so many promises every time he speaks. None of those promises have been fulfilled. Instead of fulfilling his promises, Modiji introduced notebandi which hurt the poor immensely. People could not sow their fields, they could not get money for fertilizers and pesticides. Farmers were hurt badly. Modiji will make some more promises this time also, but do not fall in the trap,” he said.
  
  “He went to Saharanpur and said that the dues of sugarcane farmers have been paid. Then he went to Meerut and said the same thing. But, the truth is that the farmers have not been paid anything, you are still waiting for your dues of over two years. Modiji has only made false claims and false promises. He doesn’t even know how much money is owed to farmers,” Singh said.
  
  Singh listed out his plans for the welfare of farmers if his party was voted to power. “We will work for our farmer brothers. We will ensure that all previous dues from the sugar mills, including the interest amounts, are paid. We will set up a farmers’ commission which will look into the problems that the farmer faces. There will be a separate agriculture budget. We will be a government of the farmers and the poor people,” the RLD chief said.
  
  Hitting out at both SP and BSP, Singh said, “Mulayam Singh has himself said that some of the party’s MLAs and MLCs are corrupt. Akhilesh Yadav’s government was involved in large-scale corruption which hurt the poor people. With Mayawati, it is well-known that she is here to loot people.”
  
  With sizeable 25% Jat votes in Sivalkhas, RLD is a strong player in the region. Former PM Chaudhary Charan Singh had been elected MLA from here three times in the 80s and 90s. Yashvir Singh, the party’s candidate, had lost in the 2012 assembly polls narrowly to Ghulam Mohammed of the SP. With both candidates again in the fray, and two other strong candidates of the BSP and BJP, this will be a contest to watch out for.
