KOCHI: Like in other south Indian states, the rate of H1NI infection has spiked in   too. About 28% of random tests conducted on samples of influenza cases from all the 14 districts has been tested positive for   virus. Of the 1,400 samples from different districts, more than 390 cases tested positive. 

 Ever since it started spreading in January this year across the state, the virus has claimed 24 lives. Cases associated with H1N1 had surged in 2015 as well with 26% of samples testing positive for the disease. "This time, it has already touched 28%. Though the public need not panic, those with influenza should take special care. The chances are high for the number of cases to go up during monsoon," said Dr  , nodal officer for H1N1 in the state. 
 
 "The disease, which normally spreads just before the onset of monsoon, has hit several south Indian states like Kerala,  , Karnataka, Goa, Andhra, Telangana, Maharashtra and Puducherry in January. Now, cases have been reported from Gujarat, Rajasthan, Odisha and Assam too," he said.
 
 When it made its appearance in India as an epidemic in 2009 the virus was first detected on those who flew down from foreign countries. "Now, it has become endemic (regularly found in a particular region). In 2015, there was a similar spurt in the number of H1N1 cases. The first cases were reported from Kerala and it spread across the nation. In 2016, not many cases were reported from the country," he said.
 
 Typical symptoms of the disease are fever, sore throat, cough, with or without body pain, diarrhoea and vomiting. The cases have been categorised based on their severity: While those in A and B categories wouldn't require hospitalization, people who fall in category C would come under high risk group. These patients will have all the symptoms mentioned above and will also suffer from breathlessness, chest pain, drowsiness and will see a fall in their blood pressure. 
 
 However, patients under A and B categories may also turn fatal in cases of presence of comorbidity (two or more diseases existing at the same time in the body) and vulnerable groups like pregnant women, children and elderly. 
 
 H1N1 may also turn worse if the patient is already suffering from prolonged hypertension, diabetes, cardiac diseases, HIV etc. "So, those belonging to vulnerable groups should take additional care. Around 85% of the cases reported this year fall in A and B categories," Amar Fettle said.
 
 Health department officials said they have taken all necessary measures to tackle the disease. Oseltamivir, the anti-viral against the disease, has been stocked up in ample quantities. "Doctors with government hospitals have been well-trained to handle the situation. The Indian Medical Associationhas come up with training classes for doctors in private hospitals," said Dr N K  , district medical officer, Ernakulam. 
 
