
It was a not-so-usual Sunday morning when over 50 CEOs and diplomats from NCR came together for a   tournament in Gurgaon. The charity golf tournament, Putting Smiles, was hosted in association with the Genesis Foundation. The participants were seen enjoying the sunny afternoon at a golf club near Sector 79. “We are enjoying a Sunday away from the city. From our family’s perspective, it is a bad thing, but we don’t play that often. And particularly in this season, when we golfers enjoy the most,” said VK Jayaswal, executive director, Sriram Pistons & Rings Limited.
 
  
  Simran Gujral, director, Sales and Business Development from Century Link,  , president-devices at   and Neil Sen, principal partner of Luxury property (L to R) (BCCL/Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 
 Former cricketer   was also at the event. He told us about his association with golf. “I’ve been playing golf for the last six years, and I think it’s wonderful. Each golf course is beautiful and different. I think it is one of the toughest sports I have ever played. In cricket, every ground is technically round, the dimensions are also the same. Over here, there is wind playing, you may pitch somewhere and it may go somewhere else, every pole is different so it is really tough,” he said.
 
 
 
 Vidya Basarkod, director, Ramboll Engineering Centre, added, “Put me on a golf course and I forget everything about my job. Weekends are the days to get away from the hectic schedule of the corporate world. So when you go back to your work, you start your week with a relaxed mind.”
 
  
  Vidya Basarkod, director, Ramboll Engineering Centre, Anil Dev, managing director, SLW Golf and Dato Paduka Haji Sidek Aki, the high commissioner of Brenui (L to R) (BCCL/Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 Since the game was being played to raise funds for the foundation, which works to provide medical treatment to underprivileged children, each player who was part of the event pledged for the cause. “I am enjoying myself here. Whenever a sport is associated with a cause, we all try to give our best to raise funds for it,” said Sunil Dutt, president – devices, Reliance Jio.
 
 
