MADURAI: Nine people have been taken in for questioning by the police in connection with the murder of an undertrial prisoner on Friday, and two vehicles and weapons have also been seized on Saturday. 

 Singaram, 47, of Pullaveli near Athoor in Tuticorin district was being escorted from the Palayamkottai prison to be produced before a Tuticorin court in connection with a case pending against him, when a gang which came in three vehicles intercepted their vehicle, attacked them with water mixed with chilli powder, forced Singaram out of the car and hacked him to death.
 
 Tirunelveli city commissioner of police Thirugnanam, Tuticorin superintendent of police Ashwin Kotnis and others rushed to the crime spot.   footage obtained from a commercial centre in the vicinity showed a thirteen-member gang escaping with weapons. Seven special squads were formed to nab the assailants. Singaram was a staunch supporter of Pasupathy Pandian.
 
 Initial investigations revealed that Singaram's assailants had used vehicles which had lawyer stickers. Check posts were put on alert, and a round-the-clock operation led to the seizure of a vehicle that the assailants had parked under the bridge on the highway in Thalaiyoothu. There were two sickles, two knives and an iron rod in the vehicle.
 
 Another vehicle was seized in the forest area near V M Chathiram and the third one near Sivathiapuram -  . Sources said that they suspected the assailants to belong to  's group, going by CCTV footage. Nine people have been detained for questioning. Police suspect this killing to be an act of revenge for the murder of Subbash Pannaiyar's supporters, Arumugasamy and Kannan, last year.
 
 Tension prevailed in Singaram's native village of Pullaveli, as his body will arrive there on Sunday for the funeral. Police said that talks were on with villagers to ease tension. Earlier, members of his family including his wife Parvathy staged a demonstration, demanding they be given adequate compensation including a government job for one of his family members.
 
