   and her brother Siddhanth visited Delhi on a promotional tour for their upcoming film  . The pair was accompanied by director   and co-star Ankur Bhatia. While talking about the film, the director, who had last directed 'Zanjeer', said the film is not a gangster drama, but an interesting story that gives an insight into the life of  's sister Haseena Parkar. He said, "I was approached to make a film on Dawood and I felt that the subject was done to death! I don’t think that anyone can play that role better than Ajay Devgn in Company. I was told that I don't know Dawood's story, like when he was young, and that’s how I met his family. That is also when Haseenaji started talking about her life, from the time she was young to her old age, the tragedies in her life and what she has been through, I thought that was really interesting and I decided to make this movie. These characters that we are talking about in the film are connected to Mumbai's history. Everything that happened in Mumbai in 40 years, the prominent gangsters who came out of gang wars from areas like Dongri and Nagpada, then the ’80s which was the encounter time. This was all very interesting to me, and that’s why I decided to make a film on it."

  
  
 
  
  Apoorva Lakhia (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  It is for the first time that Shraddha and Siddhanth will be playing brother-sister on screen. While preparing for the film, one thing that both of them had to do was put on a lot of weight. "I gained around 8 kgs, and Siddhanth around 10 kgs as our characters in the film transform over a period of time. Both of us are still trying to lose that weight," said Shraddha. On a serious note, the actress added that she chose to do this film at a time when she was being offered romantic roles only. "This is for the first time I am playing a character which is drastically different from all my past roles, so it was a big challenge for me. What helped me most was the research that was done over two years by Appu sir (Apoorva). Since he had met Haseenaji, he shared a lot of real incidents that happened in her life. We met Haseenaji's family to understand how she was," Shraddha told us.
 
  
  Ankur Bhatia
 
 
  
 : After Haseena Parkar, Shraddha is gearing up for another biopic. The actress has already started taking some badminton lessons to perfect herself for her role in Saina Nehwal’s biopic. Shraddha recently visited Saina's home in Hyderabad and met her family. Without divulging much details, Shraddha said that she is preparing hard to learn more about the game and is working on her physique. "I have to prepare a lot for Nehwal’s biopic. I have done at least 33 badminton sessions, it is the second toughest sport if I am not mistaken. I still have a long way to go and have to also work on my physique," said Shraddha.
 
 
 
