NAGPUR: The three-day rigorous joint patrolling by forest officials and representatives from different NGOs in tiger reserves and territorial areas has paid off. Not single poaching incident was reported during Holi.

 Community hunting by tribals on Holi has been a tradition in forest villages. Stringent legal provisions ensured that there were no poaching reports during last three-day when patrolling started.
 
 “Holi patrolling has curbed the practice and it is the result of enforcement. But I think this should become a regular feature around periphery of protected areas, especially foot patrolling,” says Kishor Rithe, president of  . 
 
 There was a massive deployment of staff, including special tiger protection force (STPF) in Melghat, Pench, Tadoba and   tiger reserves landscape. Individual NGO members were also a part of the exercise.
 
 There was heavy patrolling in Pench and Mansinghdeo buffer. The areas are vulnerable to poaching by armed men from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. Guards, divisional forest officers (DFOs) and volunteers were part of the drive. The drive entirely focused on the neighbouring state. Barring a couple of forest fires in Nagalwadi range, the exercise passed off peacefully.
 
 However, the drive also called for better coordination between territorial and wildlife officials, especially in tiger-bearing ranges like Khapa and Nagalwadi. A tiger killed at least four cows in last two days in these areas but territorial officials did not deploy camera traps. They took belated cognisance of these incidents. 
 
 Territorial patrolling staff admitted that such tiger bearing compartments adjoining wildlife should be handed over to wildlife.
 
 Buoyed by the success, NNTR has extended a 24×7 patrolling module till March 15. “We have formed small STPF groups of 4 individuals which will be accompanied by 2 members of regular staff. 
 
 All available vehicles and officers will be part of it,” said  , conservator (CF) & field director of NNTR.
 
 “During last three days, 16 teams were formed for patrolling in sensitive areas. More than 70 women, 150 men and 14 officers took part in the drive. No sensitive area was left out and even EDC members were roped in. Road patrolling by vehicle and checking at barriers was also done. ACFs kept track of all groups,” said Govekar.
 
 In tribal-dominated Melghat too, STPF and forest front-line staff was on their toes. “To protect forest from fires and illegal activities, more focus was on foot patrolling. I really appreciate efforts taken by all of them, which has resulted in increasing tiger number in Melghat,” said field director MS Reddy.
 
 “Such intelligent patrolling should be a regular feature as poachers are active during full moon nights unlike during Holi. 
 
 “This should be extended to all PA and periphery areas. It will also help in intelligence gathering,” says Nitin Desai, Central India director of   (WPSI).
 
