BHIWANDI: Thwarting a   on Saturday night, the manager of a   wine shop, Vishwambhar Saptol, drove 10 of his colleagues to safety as five   on two bikes rained   on their   when they were returning home with the day’s earnings of Rs 7 lakh. Three of the   suffered injuries. They are recuperating at Fortis Hospital and their condition is stable. 

 Police suspect the robbers were keeping a watch on Diamond wine shop in Ambadi naka as liquor sales double before Gatari Amavasaya—a day before the onset of the Hindu month of Shravan. “Usually, we earn Rs 2 lakh-Rs 2.5 lakh a day, but as Gatari is on Sunday, we collected Rs 7 lakh on Saturday,” said Pravin Bhatia, one of the shop owners. 
 
 On Saturday, around 11.30pm, after closing the shop, 11 employees got into the Bolero to reach Ulhasnagar where they all live. Police said near Warte village, five men on two motorbikes overtook their SUV, fired two warning rounds in the air and instructed Saptol to hand over the bag of cash. Saptol showed presence of mind and stepped on the accelerator. As the two bikes chased the SUV for up to 5km till Borpada, the robbers fired at least three bullets at the vehicle, said police. “While dodging the bullets, I called Bhatia for help,” Saptol told TOI. “He told to me to reach his   at Nada Naka.” Bhatia rushed to the factory and helped Saptol take the injured—Rajesh Ahuja (50), Vishal Moniwal (40) and Ashok Nandwani (54)—to IGM Hospital; they were later shifted to Fortis Hospital. Ahuja and Moniwal were hit by bullets, while Nandwani suffered injuries due to broken glass window.
 
 Thane Rural police have filed a case of robbery attempt and under the Arms Act.
 
 Narendra There of Ganeshpuri police station said, “Primary probe shows the robbers had visited the shop twice. One of the employees said he saw a suspicious-looking biker near the shop, but didn’t give it much thought.” Police have procured CCTV footage from the shop and a toll naka, but have not got clear visual of the five accused. Thane Rural police SP Mahesh Patil and the local crime branch have set up teams to trace the accused.
 
