GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat government appears to have accepted a long-pending demand of   and the real estate sector as it has decided to alter a key revenue law through ordinance.

 Provision 63AA/89 of the Tenancy (amendment) Act of 2015, allows industries to acquire agricultural land.
 
  “Any industry which fails to use this agricultural land within 3 to 7 years of acquiring it and wishes to sell it to another company has to pay the government 40% to 100% of the jantri rate. This often proves too expensive for companies,” a source said.
 
 Now, the state government wants to change the 2015 law and waive the requirement of paying the government 40% to 100% of the jantri rate, if the industry wants to sell it for bona fide industrial purposes. It may be recalled that in March this year, the state government had taken a controversial but industry-friendly decision to ease the norms for selling the forest land to companies.
 
 A source close to the development said that several companies had made a representation to the government claiming that their money was stuck in land because of change in their business plans.
 
 “The industries further said that due to high penalty they had to pay the government, they were unable to sell the land to other companies,” the source said.
 
 “Hence, the government has decided to alter the law and allow either waiver of penalty or maximum possible concession so that a new industry can come up,” the source said. The government has also proposed another amendment which can help realtors who have bought a lot of very costly land owned by farmer mandalis (co-operative societies), religious or welfare trusts.
 
 “Such land, if sold to farmers, could not be regularized or sold. But the 2015 amendment allowed such land to be regularized by paying 10% premium, if any non-farmer came between sale transactions of two farmers,” the source said.
 
 The source further said that now the state government had decided to allow such regularization even in cases where the non-farmer was a mandali or trust and not an individual.
 
 “Currently, under the rules, three times the penalty (calculated at jantri rate) has to be paid,’’ the source said.
 
 When contacted, Gujarat’s revenue minister   said the government is planning many reforms to boost industries. “But the information cannot be shared at present as the reforms are still under consideration,’’ Chudasama said. Sources said that the proposed changes in the law will free a lot of land in cities like Ahmedabad though this will come at the cost of the government’s financial interest.
 
 “Also, the government’s decision can be challenged in court as lakhs of people gave their excess land under the agriculture land celling act. Some smart players had converted their excess land to mandali-owned land or shifted ownership to some trust on paper,” a source said.
 
 Industries in agri zone?
 
 The state government's high power committee of secretaries has also decided to allow zone change in cities if industry has taken land in agriculture zone for units under rule 63AA.
 
 Experts said that this will compromise the purpose of town planning as anyone will be able to buy land in agriculture zone for industrial purposes or convert it for other uses under various rules.
 
 “The state government have to change the entire   (GDCR) to allow industrial construction in non-industrial zones,” an expert said.
 
