GUWAHATI: The Dalai   is to pay tribute to the   — which flows from his homeland,   — at the   festival here on April 2, a decision that risks another angry response from China. Beijing had already warned of a strain on ties when he had announced an eight-day teaching trip to Arunachal Pradesh beginning April 4.

 China had built the Zangmu dam on the Yarlung Tsangpo (Brahmapautra) southeast of Lhasa in 2014. Four more dams are being built on the river. However, it has told India and Bangladesh -the two other users of this river -that the dams will have no downstream impact.
 
 The Tsangpo, which runs through the Tibetan heartland from west to east, becomes the Brahmaputra within India and Jamuna in Bangladesh before draining into the Bay of Bengal.
 
 The five-day festival, billed as India's biggest river festival, will be opened by President Pranab Mukherjee on March 31 on the banks of the river here. Yoga guru Ram Dev will also be present on April 4.
 
 The Assam government is expecting a host of dignitaries from Southeast Asian nations as the Centre aims to give leverage to its Act East policy through this festival. “We have sent invitations to ambassadors and high commissioners. So far, representatives from Japan, Vietnam, Laos and Singapore have confirmed their participation. We are still awaiting confirmation from China,“ state inland water transport department director B B Dev Choudhury , who is one of the organisers, said.
 
 The Tibetan spiritual leader's participation in the festival has been added to his 13-day pre-announced itinerary for Assam and Arunachal Pradesh, including Tawang, which China claims as its own. His first engagement is a public talk in Guwahati on April 1. He is also scheduled to address Dibrugarh University on April 4 before leaving for Tawang the same day .
 
 The Dalai's Lama's participation in the festival, which will be celebrated along the length of the river in the state, has been turned into an event with the highest threat perception following fears of terrorist strikes by the anti-talks Ulfa-I led by Paresh Baruah, known to be hosted by China at present.
 
 Assam police additional DG (special branch) Pallab Bhattacharya said the state police have been put on high alert from March 31 to April 13, the time the Dalai Lama will be in the region.
 
 Ulfa-I is in focus as intelligence inputs suggest Paresh Baruah might come under Chinese pressure to create disturbances, particularly in Upper Assam where the outfit is most active. It stated in an email on Friday that the festival was an attempt by the Central government to hoodwink the people of the state before it announces its mega plan to interlink the Brahmaputra with the Ganga.
 
 
