AHMEDABAD: In the ongoing budget session of the   on Friday, Union minister   told the House that the   has shot off more than 5,100 notices for verification of bank accounts, including   accounts. These accounts with large cash deposits did not match with the profile of the account holders. But in Gujarat, which recorded the highest increase in Jan Dhan deposits in the country almost 93.95% not one account holder has been called for verification.

 Between November 9 and January 25, the state, which has 1.01 crore Jan Dhan accounts, has registered a surge from Rs 1,628.87 crore on November 9 last year to Rs 3,159.28 crore. These accounts have witnessed the highest growth in the country as deposits of Rs 1,530.41 crore was made post demonetization.
 
 Though it is difficult to believe the entire surge in deposits was caused by poor people depositing their cash-in-hand into accounts, the state income tax department has no clue as to how the deposits doubled, and is yet to probe into even a single such account. Speculations, however, remain rife that Jan Dhan accounts were used to launder unaccounted money. Sources in banking sector also accepted that Jan Dhan accounts were misused.
 
 When asked, P C Mody, director general of I-T (investigation), Gujarat, said he has not received any complaint of anomaly in Jan Dhan accounts.
 
 “Investigation wing is not making any inquiry into this (Jan Dhan deposits having doubled post demonetization). If we receive any information about individual accounts, we will verify it. But as such, we have not started any inquiry into Jan Dhan accounts,” said Mody.
 
 When asked if the Gujarat I-T department got any inputs about high deposits in Jan Dhan as has occurred in other states, he said, “I have not received any such inputs regarding the Jan Dhan accounts.”
 
 In December, I-T department of other states had conducted investigation into unscrupulous transactions in Jan Dhan accounts in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. 
 
 
