Ludhiana: The PAU police on Wednesday booked a former BJP leader, who was expelled from the party three months ago, for allegedly defaming and extorting money from a woman.

 The accused was former co-convener of social media cell of the BJP at district level.
 
 The complainant told the police that the accused defamed her and her family on a social networking site and pressured her to have illicit relations with him. Thereafter, the matter was taken up with the senior BJP leaders and on April 4, the accused gave a written apology, she said. However, on May 2, the accused again uploaded messages on the social networking site to defame her and also blackmailed her to extort money, she complained.
 
 An FIR was lodged after the complainant met the commissioner of police. Husband of the complainant said, “The accused is trying to defame my father and our family. For this, he has created a fake profile of my wife on the social networking site.”
 
 PAU police station SHO inspector Brij Mohan said the former BJP leader has been booked under sections 383 (extortion), 500 (defamation), 506 (criminal intimidation), 509 (word, gesture or act to insult the modesty of a woman), 354-D (2) (stalking) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.
 
 Refusing to divulge more, he said the police were yet to interrogate the accused.
 
 Meanwhile, after the FIR, the accused uploaded a post in which he threatened to commit suicide. He alleged that a young Delhi leader was blackmailing the complainant. He alleged that after a compromise between them, the woman created a fake profile on the site and also asked him to make a fake profile so that they could stay connected. The accused said in the post that the complainant and her family would be responsible for his suicide.
 
 In the post, the former BJP leader has also accused the in charge of Raghunath Enclave police post, ASI Lakhwinder Singh, of taking bribe to lodge the FIR against him. He has named six people, including the ASI, the Delhi leader and the complainant’s family, holding them responsible for his taking the extreme step.
 
 The accused’s mother said, “My son has not come home since Tuesday evening. Before leaving he said he would commit suicide if police did not give him a hearing.”
 
 SHO Brij Mohan said he was aware of the suicide threat and police were in touch with him.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police Dhruman Nimbale said, “The FIR was registered after she met police commissioner R N Dhoke. The bribe allegations against the ASI will be probed. The case will be solved with the help of cyber crime unit within a week.”
 
 
