GURUGRAM: More than a year has passed since the   government made a commitment to protect   bani by officially demarcating it as a forest. Yet, according to a right to information reply from the office of the state’s principal chief conservator of forest on July 6, the government has no plan to do so. 

 “No such proposal to declare any area of village Mangar in district Faridabad as forest is under consideration as on date,” states the reply to the RTI query filed by activist Asseem Takyar. 
 
 Mangar bani is critical to the ecosystem of the Aravalis and environmentalists have waged a long battle for the grove to be granted protected status. They received a shot in the arm last year when chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar approved a 500-metre no-construction zone around Mangar bani. Yet, a notification that gives the grove a legal shield from any attempt at infringement has not been issued. 
 
 There is, though, a parallel development that has a direct bearing on this — the definition of what a forest is in the context of the Aravalis. That decision is yet to be taken by the MoEFC (ministry of environment, forest and climate change) on which rests the responsibility of finalising the definition and submitting it to the Supreme Court. 
 
 According to the Haryana government, the total area under Mangar Bani is 653.45 acres and the area in the 500-metre "no construction belt" is 979.13 acres. These areas were delineated by a committee under the chairmanship of the deputy commissioner of Faridabad and officials from the forest, revenue and town planning departments.According to the Haryana government, the total area under Mangar Bani is 653.45 acres and the area in the 500-metre “no-construction belt” is 979.13 acres. These areas were delineated by a committee under the chairmanship of the deputy commissioner of Faridabad and officials from the forest, revenue and town planning departments.
 
 Government representatives unanimously agreed Mangar bani needed to be protected but did not have an answer on the way forward. 
 
 State forest minister Rao Narbir Singh told TOI, “The state government took a lead last year and declared a 500-metre radius around Mangar Bani as a no-construction zone. However, there is definitely a need to protect Mangar bani as a forest.”
 
 MD Sinha, conservator of forest,   circle, said, “Mangar bani definitely needs to be declared a protected forest. Some three years ago, we had submitted a proposal to notify Mangar bani under Section 4&5 of PLPA (Punjab Land Preservation Act, under which vast tracts of Aravalis are notified). However, it is pending with the authorities.”
 
 
