THANE: The lake city with its ubiquitous lakes, huge forest cover and serene coastline has suffered a serious dent, as a recent report published by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) states that   is the   city in the state on non-working days, beating the chaotic capital  , along with other bustling cities like Nagpur and  .

 Gokhale Road, which is the city’s main street that not only connects to the railway station, but also is always bustling with activity as it is lined up with a number of commercial shops and residential buildings, has been termed as one of the major contributor for the high noise levels, the MPCB report states. According to the report, the noise levels recorded in the city is at a worrying 91 decibels.
 
 ‘‘It is enough to cause permanent damage to a persons’ ears if exposed continuously. The MPCB study is a wake-up call for citizens, civic administration and politicians in the city. They need to come up with a solution to minimize these figures. Continuous honking, shouting, construction work has just contributed to the rise in decibel levels and noise pollution in the lake city. This is also one of the reasons for increasing the stress level of residents. Many Thaneites have been complaining of high anxiety levels, depression and other mental health issues,’’ said a senior bureaucrat from the MPCB.
 
 The board had submitted its findings on the noise pollution levels to the state government, which in turn has published it in the economic survey of Maharashtra that was released in the state legislature on Friday. The study was carried out across 10 cities in the state last year during the day and night. These figures were gathered on both working as well as non-working days. From the data gathered, it clearly showed Gokhale Road and the densely populated Wagle Estate area as the major contributors of noise pollution on a non-working day.
 
 In fact, the two boroughs in Thane are no match to the most busy streets of Chembur and Shivaji Park that have recorded lesser noise levels, while the dense localities of Swargate in Pune and Nagpur also recorded comparitively less noise decibels.
 
 Activists claim that the high noise pollution in Thane on   is because most residents prefer to pour out on the streets for shopping given the absence of adequate recreational facilities within the city.
 
 City activist Dr. Mahesh Bedekar said, ‘‘The traffic congestion at Gokhale Road and Wagle Estate is a perennial problem. The ambient level at Gokhale Road is already high and the flow of pedestrians, hawker presence and flow of private vehicles, autos just add to the chaos. One of the major flaws along this stretch is the inadequate road infrastructure compared to the huge volume of traffic,’’ he said.
 
 On the working day, the noise pollution level was recorded at around 72 decibels, which is lower than Mumbai at 89 decibels. 
 
 However, activists fear that the frequent exposure to such loud noise can damage the hearing capabilities of residents. The permissible noise levels for a human being is a maximum of 55 decibel and constant exposure to such high noise levels can lead to severe health problems.
 
 ‘‘Excessive exposure to noise can affect a persons ear majorly. in two ways. One has to understand that there is no treatment for such ailments and precaution is the only remedy. This is a degenerative situation and there is no reversal. Small children and senior citizens are the most susceptible and pregnant women can also be affected to some extent,” said Dr. Pradeep Uppal, an ENT from Thane. 
 
 Meanwhile, experts from the transport and town planning department feel that decongesting dense areas and enforcing a no-vehicle zone can help reduce noise pollution levels. “There has to be some restriction on the movement of traffic in the city. The only solution in Thane seems to be strengthening and promoting the use of public transport and restrict the use of automobiles in congested areas,” said an expert.
 
 
