Although   shot an arrow at Ravan’s effigy at a   on the   grounds, he’d still want to play   if offered a part in a Ramleela. After setting fire to the Ravan effigy with   chief Amit Shah, John gave some advice to his fans as he said, "Do good, as it’s goodness that prevails." While John’s fans could not have asked for more, those who came to see   and Arvind Kejriwal together for the first time - the Delhi CM had also been invited - had to leave in disappointment.

  
  Ravan effigy being burnt down at a Ramleela on Red Fort grounds in Delhi (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
 
 Since both Amit Shah and Kejriwal had been invited to share the stage together at this year’s Lav Kush Ramleela, many were expecting some fireworks on the stage too. However, Kejriwal gave this one a miss as he attended another Ramleela in the capital.
 
  ML Shah, a businessman from Chandni Chowk who had come with his family, told us, "We thought we’d be able to see Kejriwal and Amit Shah together, but our CM didn’t come. Yeh disappointment toh humein har saal hota hai. Pichhle saal inhone Najeeb Jung (then LG of Delhi) aur Kejriwal ko bulaya tha. Tab Jung nahi aaye, iss baar Kejriwal nahi aaye. Yeh toh hona hi tha."
 
  
  Arun Mandola as Laxman & Mukesh Rishi as a dying Ravan
 
 
 
 Amit Shah left immediately after the Ravan dahan, but John spent some time with the crowd. When asked which Ramleela character he would like to play, John said, "Main toh chahoonga ki main Ravan ka kirdar nibhaoon kyunki Ravan bhi Shiv ke bhakt thay, aur main bhi Shiv ka bhakt hoon."
 
  He even dispensed some gyaan to his fans and said, "Main yeh kehna chahta hoon ki aap sab ke andar achhai hai, achha kaam karo. Achha karm karna zaroori hai.” When requested to say a dialogue from his upcoming movie, Parmanu, John obliged with a line which was apt for the occasion of  . “Ab hum dar ke shaant nahin baithenge, kar ke shaant baithenge," he said.
 
  
  A scene from Ramleela on Red Fort grounds in Delhi (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
