NEW DELHI: The league stage of the 2017   has concluded on Sunday with   becoming the fourth and final team to seal passage to the play-offs stage of the season's tenth edition, bringing to an end a 56-game period which saw several franchise script some amazing runs of form. 

  
  
 Here's what you can expect from the next five days of must-win T20 action. 
 
 
 
 
 With victory over   in their final league match of IPL 2017,   sealed the top spot on the leaderboard and maintain their reputation as the team to beat this season. Claiming second place are Rising Pune Supergiant, who in their debut season in 2016 finished second from bottom. The other two teams are defending champions   and two-time title holders Kolkata Knight Riders, who slipped from second to fourth in the last ten days of the league stage. 
 
 
 
 
 The first qualifier match will be played on May 16 at the Wankhede Stadium between Mumbai and Pune, while the Eliminator will be between SRH and KKR at Bangalore's M Chinnaswamy Stadium on May 17. The second Qualifier will also be in Bangalore on May 19 and the final at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium at Uppal on the outskirts of Hyderabad. 
 
 
 
 
 Pune's pace spearhead Jaydev Unadkat is second to only Purple Cap holder Bhuvneshwar Kumar with 21 wickets in 10 matches, which includes two Man-of-the-Match performances; the latest was on Sunday as Kings XI Punjab were shoved out of the competition. The big-hitting West Indies allrounder   heads Mumbai's batting chart with 362 runs in 13 innings at a strike-rate of 141.40, with three fifties and several cameos, but it is   on whom there will be much expectancy given his past play-offs form: three matches, three half-centuries and a strike-rate of 141. 
 
 From the SRH camp, David Warner is the league's top run-getter with 604, and his starts with Shikhar Dhawan (458 runs) have been influential to the defending champions' position. For KKR, skipper   (454 runs), Chris Lynn (285 runs in five games) and allrounder Chris Woakes (17 wickets) could prove the most influential. 
 
 
 
 
 Rohit Sharma's Mumbai are a very formidable side, as 10 wins out of 14 matches attest to. They have a very well-set unit, have won the title twice and there are few chinks in their armory. RPS beat Mumbai on both occasions these two teams met this season, and will back themselves for a hat-trick despite the absence of talismanic allrounder Ben Stokes, who flew back to England on Monday. Warner, as he did in 2016, has virtually carried SRH into the play-offs on his own batting might, and a reprise of his play-off form last season could dispatch KKR who throated to unravel with some inexplicable defeats over the past 10 days. 
 
 
 Pune pip Mumbai to enter the final, Mumbai meet SRH in Qualifier 2 and run into a red-hot Warner again, thus setting up an SRH v RPS finale. As for the final … well, that's not so straightforward, is it?
 
