GURUGRAM: In a big relief to Unitech  , a condominium in Sector 50, its sewerage treatment plant (STP) has been made functional around four months after residents alleged that the society’s drains were connected with   harvesting pits, and not with Huda’s drainage line. TOI had published residents’ concerns in its March 17 edition.

 Fresco residents had also alleged the treatment plant had been lying defunct for around one and a half years. “The plant had been lying dysfunctional for more than one year. Despite our repeated requests to the developer, no step was taken by it. We are glad that Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) inspected STP after our complaints and media coverage. The developer was asked to fix the plant, and the same was done in four months,” said Nilesh Tondon, RWA president, Fresco. 
 
 Residents said they found out that the STP was not linked to Huda main sewerage line in September 2015, and again in July 2016. This, according to them, led to contamination of groundwater.
 
 “We found a lot of muck in arvesting pits, while the cleaning process of pits was under way. We somehow managed to access the drawings of the sewerage system and found out that the drains were connected to rainwater   pits. We raised an alarm as it can cause serious damage to the groundwater,” said Supriyo Dasgupta, general secretary, RWA of Fresco. 
 
 He said RWA approached deputy commissioner and HSPCB and Huda to air its concerns. HSPCB officials from inspected STP in April. “A notice was served on the developer. There were discrepancies. The plant has been made functional,” an official of HSPCB said.
 
 Uma Jha, a professor (retired) of environmental sciences at Delhi University, said, “Sewage is a complex mixture containing harmful salts, bacteria, nitrates, metals, and trace quantities of toxic materials. Even levels of natural process of soil filtration can’t help in case of sewage.” 
 
 An Unitech spokesperson told TOI, “The issues with the STP was investigated and identified, after which the equipment was replaced. No expense was spared to take precautions and ensure that residents never face a recurrence of any problems.” 
 
 
