

 As an art historian, the experience of having people hanging on to every word you utter is not a new experience for Navina Najat Haidar. But neither is getting written about in fashion magazines. A curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art (Met)'s Islamic Art department since 1999, Haidar is a skilful presenter whose knowledge about her subject whether it's Deccan's art history or Persia's Safavid art of the 15th century, is exhaustive and admirable. That she can make it accessible and awe-inspiring to the layperson whose idea of history is 'boring text-book material' is probably what pulls in the audiences.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The daughter of diplomat Salman Haidar and theatre actor Kusum Haidar, she's an Oxford scholar. “I was fortunate that I was exposed to the arts early in life and it was my love for the arts that guided me to choose a career in art history," she said at a talk that was organized by the International Music and Arts Society in Bengaluru. The subject of her talk was the award-winning Sultans of Deccan India, 1500-1700: Opulence and Fantasy exhibition that she spearheaded in the Met in 2015. Ahead of her lecture, Haidar spoke to STOI on her job as a curator at the Met, the changing role of a curator today, and most importantly, the need for history in today's times of alternative history. Edited excerpts follow.
 
 
 
 
 The beauty and power of Deccan works of art of the Sultanate period speak for themselves and make the subject and exhibition enduringly popular. Furthermore, the Deccan was a meeting point for Europeans, Africans and people from the Middle East, as the courts were cosmopolitan, open and rich. These mixed influences led to the creation of an interesting, multihued culture, which is reflected in the arts.
 
 
 
 Those two sites in particular have brilliant architectural remains.One sees original and imaginative features, such as in the Rangeen Mahal in Bidar, which has a beautiful doorway of black stone inlaid with mother of pearl sort of the opposite effect of pietra dura which you see in the   and a spectacular carved ceiling decorated with scrolling arabesques in the Timurid style, above ornately carved columns and capitals 'South India meets Iran', in essence. Gulbarga has an elegant Jama masjid among other notable sites.
 
 
 
 
 Great art refines the mind and uplifts the spirit, and is essential to human development. Today the Deccan region is seeing rapid development and in order to move forward in a positive way, the Sultanate past is a great guide.Particularly , aesthetically, because it provides inspiration and requires education to appreciate.Its history is also a key to India's role in global exchange.
 
 
 
 
 Of course, I am very fortunate to be working at the Met, but being in a job abroad, for anyone, means sacrificing precious time with friends and family at home. What I remember about my early meetings with the Met is that I trusted my eyes which told me that there was an over-painting on a folio that we were discussing.
 
 
 
 
 The term curator is now more broadly used to describe anyone who is creating selections of art of all kinds, cultural experiences, food, travel etc. The museum curator working with historical art however has a focus on their collections, requiring research, scholarship, taste and judgement based on the material they are working on. That objective view is much more important than an expression of their personal take.
 
 
 
 
 Museums and cultural institutions are important repositories of mankind's history and creativity. But they need to take a leap to meet the challenges of the present day. Many of the world's problems and opportunities lie at the nexus of environment, history , politics and culture, and we need our institutions, worldwide, to be powerful voices.
 
 
 
 
 The works of art in the Met's Islamic galleries, as they are also known, offer a broad view of fourteen centuries and freedom from the limited perspective of our present moment. Audiences have appreciated that and understood the ways in which Islamic art is part of world heritage. They are often curious about figural imagery in Islam, or the advances in science in the medieval period, all of which we try to address, among other issues.
 
 
 
 
 I hope to work on a future exhibition on the period of the Mughal emperor Jahangir. He was a great aesthete and a naturalist and a fascinating figure of history.As always, I would hope to present objects of the highest quality and importance, contextualized accurately and interestingly.
 
 
 
 
