PUNE: Talks are underway among Nationalist   (NCP) and Congress leaders for a likely alliance ahead of the  , decision for which will be announced over the next two days, former deputy chief minister   said on Tuesday.

 “The NCP is open to join hands with “like-minded” parties to keep non-secular parties away from assuming power here. Two days ago, I had a meeting with Congress leader Ashok Chavan where it was decided to let local units take a call on the alliance. NCP leaders are in touch with their counterparts in the Congress to discuss seat sharing, but NCP will go for an alliance only on respectable terms,” Pawar said.
 
 He said there was no question of announcing the list of candidates for   at this moment. “We are looking to form an alliance. The list will be announced after the terms of alliance are finalized. By tomorrow (Wednesday) night or Thursday we are expecting an outcome,” the NCP leader said.
 
 The NCP and the Congress are planning to fight civic polls together after a long gap. Political sources said the election will be tough especially for the NCP as the party wants to retain power in municipal corporations, but is facing a strong challenge from the  .
 
 When asked why NCP was in favour of an alliance, Pawar said it was because of a “mutual understanding” among leaders of both the parties. Without directly naming former Congress leader Suresh Kalmadi, Pawar said, “Local leadership of that party was not positive for an alliance earlier, but now that leader is not active in politics,” Pawar said, adding that he do not see lack of leadership in Congress.
 
 Pawar also clarified that decision about forming an alliance with the Congress was not dependent on a decision of BJP-Shiv Sena alliance. On those leaving the NCP and joining other parties, Pawar said they “are not happy” and are returning to the party fold. 
 
 Meanwhile, Congress leader Bandu Gaikwad joined the NCP on Tuesday at a function held at NCP’s office which was inaugurated by Pawar. 
 
