GHAZIABAD: A full grown male   was rescued from a house in Bhopura’s Krishna Vihar Kuti, in   area in the wee hours of Friday but not before injuring two people. 
 
 The leopard was first spotted in the residential area on Thursday night at around 9 pm creating panic among residents. In a bid to escape, the leopard somehow entered a house and was confined in a room when an alert resident locked it from outside. Soon forest department officials reached the spot and cordoned off the area by placing a net around all possible exits.
  
 “I had just returned from office and was parking my bike when I suddenly noticed a leopard which attacked me” says Bittu, 32. “The leopard sunk his teeth in my arms and chest but I managed to shrug it off and it ran away” adds Bittu. He was rushed to   where first aid was administered, he was discharged later. 
  
 The leopard then made its way into the house of one Satpal whose twenty-one-year-old daughter Preeti fled to the terrace when she saw the animal approaching. “I noticed it approaching and raced towards the terrace while shouting "tendua ghus aaya hai” says Preeti. “Hearing me some people gathered and locked the room where the animal had entered and informed police and forest department officials” adds Preeti.
  
 Anup Singh, circle officer Sahibabad said, “We reached the spot shortly after we were informed of a leopard sighting but since the animal was locked in a room we were not in a position to say whether it was a leopard or fishing cat or some other animal. When a team of forest officials arrived, it cordoned off the area by placing a net and it was only at round 4 am that forest officials confirmed that it is actually a leopard” adds Singh.
  
 Forest Range Officer Asif Shehzad meanwhile said, “It is a full grown male leopard and a team of officials were summoned from Meerut and the animal was tranquilized in the early hours of Friday. It was transported to   forest range and was set free.”
  
 BP Singh, District Forest Officer meanwhile said, “The leopard must have strayed from the nearby   forest area either in search of food or must have lost its sense of direction. I feel that members of the cat family have this tendency of losing sense of direction in an overcast condition and this leopard may have wandered in a residential area because of this very reason.”
  
 There have been instances of leopard sightings in the past in   and adjoining districts as it is their natural habitat which is provided by thick foliage around flood plain areas of Yamuna and Hindon.
  
 
