GANDHINAGAR: Amit Shah, Naranpura MLA and national president of  , lauded the Gujarat development model, initiated by PM Narendra Modi, on Thursday while in the state assembly. Shah also targeted the opposition, Congress, while speaking on a resolution by MLA Ketan Inamdar about Gujarat’s development.

  “From 1990 to 2014, BJP has not lost a single assembly elections in Gujarat, and in 2017, too, BJP will win with more than 150 seats under Vijay Rupani and Nitin Patel’s leadership,’’ claimed Shah in the assembly. 
 
 Shah said,“Today, the Gujarat development model is being discussed all over the country and the world. It began after BJP came to power in the state, and especially after then CM Narendra Modi started working for a scientific, holistic and comprehensive model of development, which is now being followed by around 22 states.”
 
 “Whether it’s Kanya Kelavani scheme, Vibrant Summit or many other such efforts, Kerala, Uttarakhand, Odisha and other states have adopted one or the other best practice innovated by Gujarat,” said Shah, adding, “When I travel across the country I realize how far we have progressed compared to other states. I am proud that all these development policies and the model emerged from this house.’’
 
 Criticizing Congress’s past rule in the state, Shah said, “Many youngsters who have not seen Gujarat before 1995, don’t even know words like ‘curfew’ or of days without electricity that were there when Congress was in power.”
 
 “There was curfew for 212 days before BJP came to power. Lord Jagannath’s Rath Yatra was attacked, but then leader of opposition (LOP), Keshubhai Patel, was told by then Ahmedabad police commissioner that he is unable to provide security,” Shah said.
 
 “There were no electricity in the evenings. 12,000 cases were lodged against farmers and many were killed. From that era to today there has been a complete transformation,” said Shah, adding, “Congress divided Gujarat along castes and communities for politics, but we took Gujarat on the path of development.” 
 
 “Narmada project was started before my birth by Jawharlal Nehru, but nothing happened till BJP and Narendrabhai took over,” Shah said. 
 
