KOLKATA: The   grounds, which usually host fairs selling books, food and handicraft, witnessed a first-of-its-type education conclave on Monday. 

 The Maulana Abul Kalam   of Technology (MAKAUT), formerly the  , hosted the conclave, underlining the desperate situation on the ground: only about 30% of the university’s graduates have been placed this year. The university has eight government and 92 private engineering colleges affiliated to it.
 
 Apart from encouraging students about startups and incubation, the objective of the conclave is to get feedback from industry experts, leaders and employers.
 
 “We want to know the requirements of big industries. From the conclave, inputs will be taken and our syllabi will be modified to produce employable graduates,” said  , vice-chancellor of MAKAUT.
 
 On Monday, the first day of the three-day conclave, there was a concern that IT giants have put a brake on hiring. “IT firms hire 80-85% of students irrespective of courses. The PSUs, which were big recruiters from core engineering departments, want ready-to-employ graduates. Earlier, training would be provided, hired engineers would serve a probation and finally they were recruited. Many PSUs now feel it is a lengthy process. Student migration has also increased, giving rise to the need for trained engineers. The smaller firms hardly have any time to train students,” said a source.
 
 At the conclave, several affiliated colleges are showcasing their activities in terms of innovation, project handling and support to industry. There will also be representations from the industry as well as the industrialists to motivate the students. The scope for financing will be discussed for innovative ideas.
 
 According to industry leaders, there are several reasons behind the slowdown. The recession has come as a setback for hiring of engineers in core industries. The market is not growing as it should have been in order to accommodate fresh graduates, they said. 
 
 According to a private college official, the situation is not conducive for hiring in the software industry. “The IT giants have adopted a wait-and-watch policy. To overcome this problem, we should focus on startups, micro-level entrepreneurship and revamping of the course curriculum. We are also working towards bridging technology gap with the MSME sector,” Prithwijit Guha, professor at the Government College of Engineering and Ceramic Technology, said.
 
 
