PUNE: The   clarified that the commissioning of the new   at   would take at least six years, contrary to the state government’s claim that the facility would come up in three to four years.

 “The   (MADC) and the Government of Maharashtra have identified a site at Purandar for the development of a new greenfield airport. However, commissioning of a new greenfield airport generally takes six years. Hence, the expansion of terminal and associated facilities at the existing civil enclave (which is a part of the  ) in Lohegaon is necessitated,” AAI’s (Airports Authority of India’s) executive director (architect) S Biswas stated in a letter to aviation expert Dhairyashil Vandekar on March 28.
 
 Earlier, chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis had said the new airport would take at least three-four years for completion. He also stressed Pune needed two airports.
 
 Biswas wrote to Vandekar after the latter sent a letter to the minister of state for civil aviation, Jayant Sinha, on January 3 regarding the impending expansion of the Lohegaon civil enclave vis-à-vis the new airport at Purandar. “The   response contradicts the state government’s claim related to the project deadline,” Vandekar said.
 
 The AAI official justified the expansion plan at Lohegaon, stating that the air passenger traffic from Pune had shown a cumulative average growth rate of 24% in the past three years. “To handle the forecast traffic over the next seven years, expansion and upgrade of the civil enclave has been initiated by the AAI. For public convenience and to meet the future traffic demand of a city like Pune, there is a possibility that two airports would be viable to operate simultaneously similar to Goa,” he said.
 
 Biswas stated that the project management consultant for the proposed expansion plan at the Lohegaon civil enclave was likely to be appointed by mid-April and the construction would be completed in 30 months.
 
 On the use of pre-fabricated structures for reducing the cost of the new terminal building, Biswas stated, “Adoption of pre-fabricated structure may not be suitable. However, to reduce the construction period, pre-engineered structure is one of the options being explored by the AAI.”
 
 
