JALPAIGURI:  , the oldest resident of the enclaves that India and   exchanged in August 2015, died on Sunday with several dreams that he had cherished unfulfilled. 

 He was 104 and is survived by two sons, four daughters and 15 grandchildren.
 
 From leading a life of anonymity, the resident of Madhya Mashaldanga in Cooch Behar's Dinhata sub-division had shot into fame when at 102, he became the oldest among Indian's youngest citizens at the stroke of midnight on July 31, 2015. A year later, at age 103, he voted at the Bengal Assembly polls.
 
 Though his lifelong desire to become an   was realized in early 2016 when he received the  , the dreams that he had nursed about life in India remained unfulfilled. 
 
 Electric lights that he had seen twinkling at a distance remained a pipe dream. The 15-bigha plot of farmland, which he owned had been vested to the state when the enclaves were exchanged. But fresh land documents were never distributed. No government initiative had taken place to provide employment either.
 
 Madhya Mashaldanga spread over 126.66 acres was among the 51 Bangladeshi enclaves encompassing 7,110 acres that became part of Indian territory from August 1, 2015 in lieu of 101 Indian enclaves that were handed over to Bangladesh. While those in enclaves that were formerly under Bangladesh, remained in India when the switch happened, 972 persons who were in Indian enclaves moved to India once the enclaves were handed over to Bangladesh. They now live in two rehabilitation camps at Haldibari and Mekhliganj. 
 
 Asgar remained in India along with around 9,000 others. But life didn't change the way he had expected. Though Mansab Shaoraguri, a tiny Indian enclave of 2.5 acres located 200 metres from Asgar's house had electricity, Asgar's village remained in the dark.
 
 "A few poles have been planted but the pace of work was tardy. Initially, Asgar was very excited about the arrival of electricity and would frequently enquire how long it would take. But when nothing happened, he became disappointed and towards the end, he was crestfallen," said Asgar's son Billal Hossain. Beyond his own house, Asgar had hoped to see a school and potable drinking water facility in the village and would often talk about them. But that did not happen. 
 
 Over the years, Asgar had been a subject of British India, a citizen of   and then Bangladesh before finally becoming Indian. But his life spanning over a century essentially remained unchanged till his death.
 
 
