AHMEDABAD: A constable with   police station was stabbed to death by four men, near Detroj bus stand, on Sunday evening. The bone of contention was the deceased stopping the accused’s motorcyle earlier in the day. Ahmedabad rural police’s local crime branch (LCB) arrested the accused from a farmhouse near  , early on Monday morning.

 According to Detroj police station, Vinod Makwana, 31, was on a vehicle checking drive on Sunday. Makwana tried to stop a motorcycle near the main market of the town when the rider did not stop. Makwana had followed him for a few metres and forced the motorcycle to stop. This resulted in a heated exchange and Makwana slapping the youth, later identified as Karansinh Solanki, a resident of   village, at about 6pm.
 
 “At around 7pm, Makwana was near the Detroj bus stand, with Kanuji Thakor, a Home Guards jawan, when Solanki returned to the spot with his friends and relatives Vipul and Kirti Solanki and Aakash, all residents of Dekawada. According to Thakor’s complaint, Solanki allegedly hurled casteists slurs at Makwana and then stabbed him with a knife in his chest and stomach, when the others had pinned Makwana down. Thakor, who tried to intervene, was also stabbed in the lower abdomen,” said a Detroj police official.
 
 Makwana was declared dead on the spot whereas Thakor was rushed to a government hospital for treatment. Thakor is being treated from grievous injuries, said officials.
 
 Rajendra Asari, SP, Ahmedabad Rural, said that soon after the incident, teams were formed to track down the accused. “They were apprehended and have been booked under various sections of the IPC and The SC and the ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Further investigation is being conducted by a DSP-level officer,” he said.
 
 Investigators said that the primary questioning of the accused has revealed that Karansinh was angered by the constable stopping him and slapping him in public and had decided to get back at him. “As of now, the accused seem to have no prior police record,” said an investigator.
 
 Anti-social elements a menace in some parts
 
 Sources said some areas in Ahmedabad district and parts of the city, have remained a headache for law and enforcement agencies due to the menace of anti-social elements. “Fights and altercations are most often reported during checking drives and during traffic management. We are already working on trouble areas. This is not the first instance of assault on a policeman on duty and complaints have been filed against assailants in the past. We also work closely with community members to resolve issues in amicable manner but any assault would be dealt with according to the law,” said a senior Ahmedabad rural police official.
 
