BEHRAMPORE/BANKURA/ARAMBAG/MIDNAPORE: The state is yet to declare the current spate of inundation across five districts as  , but   officials on Wednesday admitted that 10 people have lost their lives so far as heavy rains lashed the state since Friday. Besides, over 10 lakh have been affected as water gushed into villages and towns. Two went missing in Howrah as 168 villages went under water after the Damodar barrage breached at Samantapara, Batla and Monsukha.

 With thousands housed in 50 relief camps, Goghat and Chandrakona witnessed protests with victims alleging authorities were not providing relief materials to the camps. Bankura was the worst-affected. 
 
 The government on Wednesday announced that dry food and water pouches were being supplied to relief camps along with 6,73,000 tarpaulin sheets to house the displaced. Besides, over 3 lakh dhotis, 1.7 lakh lungis and 2.49 lakh sarees have also been dispatched. With the situation raising concerns over price rise of vegetables in city markets, ministers and officials of the agriculture and agricultural marketing departments reviewed stocks of different items with the state.
 
 Murshidabad, Hooghly, Kolkata and   accounted for two deaths each while   and Nadia reported one death each. In Murshidabad, a teenager and a housewife died on Wednesday. Ronit Ghosh (13), a Class VIII student, was returning home at Bhorowan from school when he slipped into a ditch and drowned. Marjina Bibi (42) of   died after the roof of her house collapsed.
 
 Chief minister Mamata Banerjee once again blamed the Centre for the flood-like situation. “Since 2012, I have been telling the Centre to get the DVC barrages dredged. But nothing has been done. The capacity of these barrages has declined. So, whenever there is heavy rain, water has to be released from Jharkhand, causing floods in Bengal,” the CM said. Later, she reviewed the situation at a meeting in Nabanna. DVC released 2 lakh cusecs of water till 3pm on Wednesday.
 
 The state’s reluctance to declare floods is perhaps driven by the fact that it spent Rs 3,500 crore on flood and drought relief in 2015 all by itself with no funding from the Centre.
 
