KOCHI: The   (GCDA) has send a notice to its  ,  , seeking an   over the   and other objects from the chairman's official residence. The GCDA also would be lodging a complaint with the police in this regard. 

 On Thursday, the GCDA officials had approached the Kadavathra police in this regard. But the police demanded that the officials furnish more details before a formal complaint is registered. "We will be lodging the complaint with more details," said GCDA secretary M C Joseph. "We have sent a notice to the former chairman as well. He received the notice on Thursday," he said.
 
 It was when the new chairman, C N Mohanan, visited the official residence after taking charge as the GCDA chief that the issue of the missing of objects came to notice. As per the latest assessment, the objects missing are worth around Rs 1,50,000. Three air conditioners, three cots, a settee, a TV stand and kitchen utensils were among the items found missing from the house.
 
 The GCDA authorities had issued notices to two of its officials seeking their explanations regarding the missing of the objects. The reply given by the officials who were in charge of maintaining the official residence of GCDA chairman is not satisfactory, a top official said. 
 
 The GCDA officials had found that some of the objects went missing from the residence after the former chairman moved out. They even prepared a list of missing objects and recommended serving notice on the former chairman asking him to pay Rs 96,000 which were assessed as the value of the objects then. But, top officials returned the file citing technical flaws in it. 
 
  N Venugopalhad earlier said that the allegations of him acquiring the furniture from the official residence of Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) chairman as well as of GCDA losing land during his tenure are baseless.
 
 " I have not taken anything away from the residence for personal use. An inquiry should be held to check where the officials erred. The keepers of the key after I moved out are the ones who are to be questioned," Venugopal had said.
 
 
