JAIPUR: Urban development and housing minister   on Monday said that he will exhange his minister’s post with  , if   can help Jaipur win first rank in Swachh Sarvekshan-2018.

 Taunting city mayor, minister said, “A city like Bharatpur was cleaned in two days. What are you doing in Jaipur?” The minster added, “Residents wearing Dhoti, Pajama have made their city clean. However, Jaipur is still dirty.”
 
 The minister continued and said that he does not have a cabin, unlike the mayor. He was speaking during an induction workshop on Swachh Survekshan - 2018 where the mayor, public representatives, chairmen and commissioners of 191 urban local bodies gathered under one roof.
 
 The state will participate in Swachh Survekshan-2018 which will begin in January, where 500 cities with more than one lakh population will be judged on various cleanliness parameters.
 
 During the workshop, IAS officer Manjit Singh’s comment against BJP councillor, Ashok Garg also invited strong criticism from public representatives of both the parties on Monday.
 
 In presence of the urban development and housing (UDH) minister, Shrichand Kriplani and city mayor, Ashok Lahoti, Singh asked the councillor to sit down when he was highlighting flaws of BVG India Limited, a firm appointed for door-to-door garbage collection. It was alleged that IAS officer also rudely asked councillor not to turn the workshop into a Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) general body meeting.
 
 BJP councillor Garg questioned as to how city rank would improve as state government has appointed a firm that does not even have sufficient resources. Garg highlighted and said, “Only one JCB is deployed by the firm to collect garbage from four wards.”
 
 Meanwhile, during the workshop it was said that out of 5,300 wards door-to-door garbage collection scheme has been successfully executed in 3,885 wards. Also, 6,400 tonne garbage is been collected across the state, out of which, nearly 610 tonne garbage has been processed. “For solid waste management, processing plants in 16 cities will be established by March 2018. Once established, 1,500 tonne garbage will be processed in the state,” informed the official.
 
 This time in Swachh Survekshan-2018 all the cities will be ranked based on 71 sanitation-related parameters with different weightage. “The Centre has revised the methodology of the survey this year. The cumulative marks will now be 4,000, up from 2,000 in 2017. All the cities will be ranked based on 71 sanitation-related parameters with different weightage. Negative marking has been introduced this time to ensure that cities do not make false claims about improving the sanitation infrastructure,” said a senior official.
 
 
