NAGPUR: In a big crackdown on illegal settlements, the anti-encroachment squad of   (NIT), district collectorate and   (NMC) razed around 300 pucca constructions at Shrikrishna Dham, behind Wox Coolers, Koradi Road, on Tuesday. Shrikrishna Dham was allegedly developed illegally by Dilip Gwalbanshi, who has been at the focus of action by enforcement agencies against land grabbing and criminal intimidation.

 With almost 400 police personnel and fire fighters were on hand to avert any untoward reaction from the squatters, the joint operation started at 10am. NIT had deployed 10 excavators and tippers, while NMC deployed two excavators to raze the illegal structures.
 
 Many dwellers tried to prevent the demolition drive, but the police subdued them easily. The police had to resort to a mild lathicharge to prevent agitation by some dwellers. The drive continued till late in the evening.
 
 BJP corporator Jagdish Gwalbanshi and former corporator Munna Yadav, a close aide of CM, too visited the site to register their protest. However, the situation was under control and most slum dwellers carried away their belongings from their razed houses.
 
 Over 500 families had erected allegedly illegal constructions and encroached upon the huge land of   situated behind Wox Cooler Factory on Koradi Road since 2009. NIT had already issued notices to the illegally constructed slums to vacate the land on their own but the dwellers paid no heed.
 
 Around 29-30 persons own the 2.33 hectare land. The slum was settled there under the patronage of slumlord Dilip Gwalbanshi, who claimed he owned the land. Those settled in these slums were mostly residents of Goa Colony on Kamptee Road, a slum that was demolished a decade ago by the Central Railway.
 
 Several people from outside Nagpur had spent between Rs50,000 to Rs5 lakh to erect structures on the plots given by Gwalbanshi. Some had even constructed multi-storey structures.
 
 Using his strong political connections, Gwalbanshi had alleged persuaded a state minister to construct roads and erect electric poles from his discretionary funds and from NIT quota in this slum. Water supply pipelines too had been laid.
 
 The demolition drive was a fallout of a high court order after a writ petition in 2015 over encroachment on 2.33 hectare land. Taking serious cognisance, the HC had on April 27 directed setting up of a committee of senior officers comprising the joint commissioner of police, NIT chairman, municipal commissioner, district collector, and other officers of the Nagpur Police Commissionerate. The HC also directed the joint commissioner of police, Nagpur, to file an affidavit by June 8 about the steps taken by the committee for removal of encroachments from the land.
 
 
