KOZHIKODE:   in the district is facing a setback owing to the   for irrigation purpose. Though many individuals and farmer groups have started   to covert  , many are facing shortage of water for carrying out irrigation.

 Coconut, areca nut and plantain farmers also have started feeling the heat with the drying of many water resources across the district.
  
 Delay in giving nod for district irrigation plan submitted by the district   is considered the key obstacle for addressing irrigation issues.
 
 Though the District Irrigation plan for five years was submitted in 2015-16, delay from the part of the state level sanctioning committee affected the implementation of the projects included in the irrigation master plan.
  
 "Instead of finding short term solutions to fight drought there should be long term projects to assure sufficient water for summer season," said an official with the agriculture department. The Irrigation plan prepared by various government department includes such long term plans including protection of water resources, construction of bunds and check dams and introduction of sprinkler and drip irrigation methods, the official added.
 
 The district Irrigation plan, under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana aims to calibrate the existing irrigation system for attaining better productivity.
  
 Proposals submitted by agriculture department, water resources department, Kerala Land Development Corporation, Rural Development department and soil conservation department are included in the district irrigation plan. The project covers over 2 lakh hectors of agriculture land.
 
 “Effective utilisation of available water will be possible with the implementation of proposed projects, said the official.
 
 Micro irrigation, supplementary water management activities were proposed in the scheme aiming to reduce the use of water for irrigation. Water recharge structures vented weir across river also listed by officials of various departments.
  
 Another major problem that has affected the farmers is the intrusion of saline water to farm lands. Nearly 75 acres of farm land at Kottappaly in Thiruvally panchayat are laying uncultivable owing to the presence of saline water.
 
 
