By the time you read this article, the NIRF2017 rankings would have been released. NIRF (National Institute Ranking Framework) is the Indian response to the global ranking exercise. For a country that transports the population of Australia on a daily basis, every global exercise needs an Indian version because of the country’s sheer size and the non-applicability of the one-size-fits-all model. Many including the Indian President have been repeatedly lamenting the absence of Indian universities in the top 100 list of various global rankings. Many also fail to realise that with the type of global ranking metrics policy, it will take another 50 years to have an Indian institution in the top 100. However, there are certain parameters that can easily be adopted for India and one of them is the   (NTF) like GRE or SAT.

 In 1981, a constitution bench of the Supreme Court headed by Chief Justice Y V Chandrachud accepted and observed that an entrance test facilitates assessment of comparative talent of students who come from diverse backgrounds. According to the bench, an entrance test will apply uniform standard and rectify the possible distortions that might creep in due to varying evaluation metrics followed by different high-school examining authorities. The bench made the observation when an institution regulated admission based on entrance test and not on qualifying marks. Now, I am not sure if the Supreme Court will take the same view on the ‘entrance alone’ model. The rat race for IIT admissions, thanks to the ivory-tower JEE (Advanced) as if JEE-Mains was not enough, has churned out young humanoids who in a senior bureaucrat’s jocular words need multiple choices to tell their own names. Compounding is the mindless coaching class syndrome for competitive exams like JEE, NEET and CLAT that has made school education less relevant and interesting.
 
 The current debate on NEET for medical college admission has mixed response and the move for a single test for engineering admissions from 2018 is about to generate another round of intense five-dimensional consequences - dialogue, discourse, debate, drama and despair. The hurried manner in which the apex court mandated NEET, leaving no time for some states to prepare their students should not happen in the case of engineering admissions. The burden of multiple entrance exams must be relieved from aspirational students in the case of engineering admissions which is a volume game unlike medical. The proposed NTF policy with adequate weightage to board marks resonates with a scientific study made by a committee headed by T Ramaswami, when he was the secretary of the department of science and technology. The committee presented a meaningful formula to ensure that both learning in schools and training in coaching classes achieve a desirable outcome. Institutions, including IITs, should adopt a common entrance test like JEE conducted in multiple languages and also factor in high school performance at a predetermined mix left to their choice. This formula can satisfy all stakeholders provided a proper roadmap is put in place.
 
 States must be given time to fix their school education curriculum to levels required to meet the JEE standards and be allowed to gradually increase the weightage of JEE scores from a minimum 10% to a maximum 50% over a five-year period. However, from 2018 onwards, deemed universities must be mandated to adopt JEE scores with a minimum 25% weightage for high school marks without the need to conduct their own entrance exams.
 
 This shall ensure that the revenue model built on application sales by certain institutions is curbed and students are not forced to buy different application forms. The only application students need to buy is for the  . Based on the JEE score and high school exams result, students can decide to apply to any number of institutions they wish. The institutions shall admit students based on the combined score of the applicant through a national admissions online portal monitored by ministry of human resource development to ensure transparency and merit. The application sales to seats filled in each institution under this model better reflects quality and not the previous case of ‘forced application crowdsourcing.’ This shall also curb capitation fee menace and ensure that the triple test requirement of the Supreme Court — fairness, transparency and non-exploitativeness is achieved. In short, a national test facility is an admission doctor’s paracetamol — the best first cure.
 
 (This is the concluding part of a two-part article)
 
 (The author is the dean of SASTRA University)
 
 
