TRICHY: In a controversial move,   (NCT), an aided college, on Sunday launched a residential ‘Veda Padasala’ (veda school) on its campus inviting strong rebuke from the Association of University Teachers (AUT). 

 The teachers have termed it a violation of government rules and an effort to please the BJP-led government at the Centre. 
 
 The move is also alleged to be an attempt by the college management to revive its plan to start a private school on the premises which was stayed by the high court on an appeal by AUT. 
 
 Planned as an extension activity by NCT management, the six-month certificate programme is meant for children in the age group of 9-15 to study the vedas and their various branches. Classes would be run by Dr R   which has a department called Sri Sarguneswarar Veda Padasala. 
 
 The veda school was inaugurated along with a six-month certificate programme for undergraduate students on ‘Indian Culture, Heritage and Vedas’ as an add-on course. A separate facility has been provided on the college premises to run the residential programme. “Unilateral initiation of such a programme on the college premises is in violation of the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges Regulation Act (TNPCR Act) (1976),” charged AUT unit secretary and professor at NCT M S  . 
 
 He said it was an irony that the same college had unilaterally chosen to wind up the 100% government-aided UG, PG, MPhil, PhD programmes of the philosophy department in 2012. It has now contemplated a certificate programme and a centre with residential facility which offers similar content in terms of Indian culture and tradition, said Bala Murugan. 
 
 “AUT took the matter to   (JDC) which asked the college management to go ahead with admissions for Philosophy. But the college deliberately closed it down citing poor response,” said former AUT president  . 
 
 The residential school on the college premises has been set up despite AUT obtaining a stay from the high court in 2015 against a similar attempt by the management to start a private CBSE school on its premises. “It can only be perceived as an attempt to impress the Union government in terms of promoting religious teachings in the college which has not been the case in any other government-aided arts and science college,” said Pandian. 
 
 Reacting to the allegations, NCT secretary K Raghunathan said that being an autonomous institution, the college did not need permission from anyone for utilising its premises for such courses. “There is a section of people in our college which takes strong exception to every good move of the college, “he said. 
 
 Speaking on similar lines, NCT principal K Anbarasu said that AUT was wrong in its claims and that the college, being a self-financing institution, was well within its rights to start any course. 
 
 
