  : A 47-year-old man died while standing in a serpentine queue at the out-patient department ( ) of the district   here for over three hours on Tuesday. Rushed to emergency, he was declared brought dead. Doctors said he suffered a cardiac arrest. 

  The deceased was identified as Shabbir, a resident of Sandal Khan Bazariya under   area of the city. According to his family members, Shabbir had complained of chest pain in the morning. He along with his brother went to the district hospital and stood in a long queue at the OPD awaiting his turn to meet the doctor. "Waiting for more than three hours in the serpentine queue at the hospital took a toll on my brother's health. When our turn was about to come to meet the doctor, Shabbir collapsed," said Kaloo, his brother. 
 
  After Shabbir collapsed, the hospital staff informed Dr Ajay Mohan Agarwal, the lone physician at the hospital. "I heard a commotion outside my room and when I came out to check, I found that Shabbir was lying on the ground. He was conscious but was in a state of shock. I immediately directed the staff to take him to the emergency ward on a stretcher. However, he was declared brought dead once he reached emergency ward," said Dr Agarwal. He said he was not aware how long Shabbir had stood outside his room. 
 
  Incidentally, the hospital does not have a cardiologist on its rolls despite having two sanctioned posts. 
 
  Chief   superintendent Dr K S Gupta said, "Shabbir decided to visit the OPD as he complained of chest pain. However, after standing in the queue for so long, he suffered from myocardial infraction which stops blood supply in the heart. Consequently, he suffered a sudden heart attack and died on way to the emergency." 
 
  According to doctors, more than 4,000 patients visit the district hospital every day and hence, patients have to wait for hours before a doctor sees them. On Tuesday, 2,163 new patients registered for consultations at the OPD besides more than 2,000 patients with old prescription were also present. To end long waiting periods for OPD patients, state government has set into motion a process for turning Bareilly district hospital into an e-hospital so that they can fix appointments in advance online. It will also facilitate maintenance of patients' record online for better monitoring. 
 
 
