MUMBAI: If the   highlighted one aspect of the dangerous   on the  , the other side of the bloodied coin is the regular   from crowded trains.

 Railways has failed to keep up with either infrastructure or services. While foot over-bridges hang fire for years, Central and Western Railway have been increasing services regularly and even adding coaches to the rakes. Yet, clearly they are not enough to counter overcrowding (see box).
 
 Besides running more services, WR has increased 15-car services to 54. On October 2, it added 32 new services. CR has also converted almost all its nine-car rakes to 12-car, and introduced 28 services on the Harbour line.Another 40 will begin in the coming months.
 
 “Though there was an increase in suburban train services, the number of passengers carried per rake was much higher than the carrying capacity . However, comparison of the average number of passengers carried per rake with its carrying capacity indicated an average crush lo ad of 2,510 passengers per rake in CR and WR. As a result, passenger fatalities due to falling from running trains are very high in CR and WR,“ said the comptroller and auditor general (CAG), in its review of the suburban operations between 2010-11and 2014-15.
 
 Another aspect of the increase in services is symbolism. “Introduction of more services is not serving its purpose since most of them are short-distance shuttle services, like between Wadala-Vashi, Thane-Kalyan or Andheri Virar. It leaves many passengers frustrated,“ said Belapur resident Rajesh Nair.
 
 The CAG appropriately observed: “The number of services is not sufficient to cater to the needs of heavy passenger traffic in CR and WR, where the figures for death of passengers are very high. Thus, IR could not provide adequate number of services commensurate with the rising passenger traffic, leading to overcrowding and death of passengers.“
 
 What's prevented the situation from worsening, transport experts pointed out, is the emergence of business hubs in the far suburbs and satellite townships, shifting some of the commuter pressure to roads. Many banks have moved offices to BKC, Goregaon, Kanjurmarg and even Thane. Software development and outsourcing jobs, once concentrated in the SEEPZ area, have moved to Vikhroli, Thane-Ghodbundar Road and the Trans Thane Creek area. Many of these companies are providing contract bus services to employees.
 
