PUNE: A gang of 12 men beat-up a watchman and four labourers of a company that manufactures transformers at  , located off   about 25 km from the city, and robbed copper and aluminium plates along with cash collectively worth Rs 23.24 lakh in the early hours of Friday. 

 The weight of the material robbed was about 4.8 tonne, robbers used a truck to shift the booty from the premises of the company, Pune rural police said.   (60), the watchman of the   lodged the complaint with the Rajgad police.
 
 The company has a compound wall and wire fencing too. There are 20 labourers working in the company, four of whom are staying on the premises. The company has appointed two security guards, one for day shift and another for the night shift. The complainant Mali was in the night shift when the incident occured, police said.
 
 Mali stated in his complaint that around 3.30 am on Friday, a gang of 12 men all of sudden entered the premises of company brandishing swords and wooden sticks. One them hit Mali with a stick and asked who stays on the premises. When Mali told them about the labourers, the suspects told him to take them to the workers. "The workers were sleeping inside the accommodation provided by the company. The suspects told Mali to knock on the door. As soon as one of the labourers opened the door, the suspects barged in and started beating them," said an officer from the Rajgad police station.
 
 The suspects tore the bed shits of the labourers and tied all of them up. "Three suspects, who were carrying swords stayed back in the room, while remaining went out," the officer said.
 
 The officer said that as per Mali's statement he heard the sound of a vehicle entering on the premises. After sometime, the men guarding the labours and Mali them left the room after taking all their cell phones and cash. "Around 4.30 am, Mali and other labourers heard that vehicle leaving the premises. They waited for sometime then managed to free themselves," the officer said.
 
  Mali rushed to the neighbouring company and alerted his manager using a watchman's phone. "The manager rushed to the spot and found that the suspects had made away with 4 tonne coppers and about 700 kg aluminium. They also took the recorder of the   cameras installed in the company all collectively worth Rs 23.24 lakh," the officer said.
 
 The Rajgad police have formed four teams to trace the suspects. The police have registered the offence under section 395 (dacoity) of the IPC
 
 
