AMRITSAR: AAP chief   late on Monday evening closeted with former Panj Pyaras (the five beloved ones) who were suspended by the mini parliament of Sikhs, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, on the charges of violating maryada (code of conduct) of the Akal Takht and going against religious norms.

 Kejriwal went to the residence of one of them, Major Singh, on late Monday evening and held deliberations with his other suspended colleagues: Satnam Singh Kanda, Mangal Singh, Tarlok Singh and Satnam Singh. The meeting lasted for 20 minutes.
 
 The meeting hold significance since the former Panj Payara’s had to raise their voice against SAD-backed SGPC and the five Sikh high priests. They had shot to fame overnight for condemning decision of SGPC to pardon Sirsa dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, which was rescinded later, and also the high priests on public platforms. They had also extended support to the Sikh hardliner-organized ‘Sarbat Khalsa’ in November 2015.
 
 Talking to TOI, Major Singh said that since they were ‘Panj Pyaras’, anyone could come and meet them and take their blessings. However, he didn’t divulge what transpired in their meeting with the Delhi CM. He, however, said Kejriwal was on the side of truth and so were they but also added, “We are religious persons and have nothing to do with politics.”
 
 On October 21, 2015, the Panj Pyaras had summoned jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Gurbachan Singh, jathedar of Takht Damdama Sahib Giani Gurmukh Singh, jathedar of Takht Patna Sahib Giani Iqbal Singh, jathedar of Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib Giani Mal Singh and Granthi of Takht Hazur Sahib Giani Ram Singh to appear before Akal Takht seeking clarification on passing a Gurmata (edict) on September 24, 2015, pardoning Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim for blasphemy. On October 16, 2015, the jathedars revoked their own Gurmata following strong opposition by from the members of the community. The Panj Pyaras were suspended by SGPC for violating the maryada of Akal Takht and going against official norms.
 
 SGPC president Kirpal Singh Badungar alleged that Kejriwal was encouraging anti-Panthic forces and his meeting with the former Panj Pyaras only vindicated his stand. Badungar cautioned that such attempts to create fissures within the Panth would prove to be dangerous in long term.
 
 Speaking of his meeting, Kejriwal said, “It was a great humbling experience to meet the Panj Pyaras. They are always concerned about the welfare of the entire mankind of all faiths and religions. It gave me immense peace of mind while being in the august company of the Panj Pyaras. I sought their blessings to accomplish our mission and ongoing crusade against the corruption.” He said the five beloveds of the Guru Sahib were respectable religious personalities and he was highly impressed with their humility.
 
 Another suspended Panj Pyara Mangal Singh said Kejriwal told them that for long he wanted to meet them as he had been reading their statements in the media.
 
