BHOPAL: The objective of finding a niche for poor man’s transport and to make cycling the vogue brought some of government officials, experts on non-motorised transport and citizens together during the national public bike sharing (PBS) workshop and expo here on Friday.

 Amazing pedal-powered concepts were on display and discussed. It includes Bhopal’s highly successful automatised PBS to Jabalpur’s battery-powered cycles that can travel 50 km on a single charge. Representatives from the largest cycle manufacturer in the world to a German manufacturer actively pursuing ‘Made in India’ his cycles kept many engrossed in the conversation.
 
 “We need large-scale expansions in bicycle sharing system sizes to bring about the shift in the mode of commuting,” said   (WRI) India project associate (cities and transport) Azra Khan.
 
 MP   (UAHD) secretary Vivek Agarwal set the tone for the workshop. “Cities are faced with the problem of transport. Pedestrians are perhaps the most unsafe individuals on the road. Even the rich can use public transport. There needs to be last-mile connectivity. We are hoping MP becomes a lighthouse state for public bike sharing.”
 
 Agarwal cautioned cities like Bhopal not to lose the momentum and to make greater efforts to increase docking stations along with a number of cycles. “The next few months are crucial for developing PBS scheme (in Bhopal) and to expand in next few months to improve the last-mile connectivity,” he said.
 
 Bhopal’s project is unique, as in the PBS project investment has come in from the private operator. The government is only expected to intervene for viability gap funding.
 
 “PBS can attract tourists as well. However, the process of registration and city specific application is needed,” said Aggarwal. For making the scheme sustainable, he directed officials to take measures in utilising the advertisement space on the German-made cycles.
 
 “It is my dream that by the time I retire I should not feel the need to ride a personal vehicle,” said Agarwal, hinting that the public transport and schemes like PBS should fulfil transportation needs.
 
 A number of cities have begun or are about to start public bike sharing across India. The workshop is a platform to learn and share experiences, said Bhopal Smart city development corporation limited ( ) Chandramauli Shukla. PBS Bhopal touched 21,000 registered users on Friday.
 
 PBS, a smart city initiative in Bhopal, is set to be replicated by   ( ), said German cycle maker NextBike, International Business Development director, Sebestian Schlebush.
 
 Through video conferencing, Rohtak SP Pankaj Nain said, “We need to create good cycling culture and infrastructure.”
 
 
