TNN

 Mumbai:   has launched a programme to facilitate   initiatives, identify pain points that citizens face in dealing with government, and digital solutions to deal with them. The Citi Tech for Integrity Challenge ( ) is a global program to create solutions to promote integrity, accountability and transparency in the public sector, with final presentations taking place in India and four other countries. Kartik Kaushik, country business manager, global consumer bank,  , said, that the initiative will offer technology companies an opportunity to innovate in the areas of financial transactions, cyber security, grievance redressal and other such areas.
 
 The initiative has the backing of the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY), the Digital India foundation, and tech companies including IBM, PwC, Microsoft, MasterCard, Facebook, Let’s Talk Payments and Wipro.
 
 Providing use cases for digitisation, Kaushik said that it could be in areas like ensuring effective delivery of aid during natural disasters or in supporting government initiatives to ensure that procurement procedures are a transparent and clean process.
 
 Citi will provide cash rewards and pilot opportunities to successful candidates. Winners will also get a platform to showcase solutions to government, allies and clients. The other partners would also be providing awards in the form of cash and access to services.
 
 The tech solutions received through this programme will be evaluated by a jury, and selected finalists would have an opportunity to showcase their innovations to a wide and knowledgeable audience at ‘Demo Day’ events to be held in June in Hyderabad. The first stage of the programme of identifying pain points is already over and submissions will be reviewed in March 2017.
 
 Although there is no government commitment to implement the solution, the participants will be creating a proof of concept in a tech ecosystem. This solution can be picked up by any government anywhere in the world.
 
 
