AHMEDABAD: While there have been nationwide signature campaigns by Muslim groups against the abolishing of   practice, a nationwide study shockingly states 95.5% of   across the country have not heard or are unaware of the   (AIMPLB). 

  The board has been long opposing the abolishment of Triple Talaq. In fact, last year in October, the organization ‘Jamiat-e-Ulma-I-Hind’ in Ahmedabad claimed they have garnered the support of at least 2.50 lakh people, which included a large number of Muslim women, for whose rights votaries of a uniform civil code law and advocates of triple talaq have been campaigning. However, the findings of the study, conducted by Bharatiya Muslim Mahila Andolan (BMMA), paint a different picture, as most Muslim women are not even aware of the board’s existence.
 
 Commenting on the issue, Zakia Soman, founding member, BMMA, said, “The entire premise of the signature campaign to garner support for the triple talaq issue is questionable here because when women are not aware of the board, how are they supposed to know what it propagates and stands for,” said Zakia Soman, founding member, BMMA.
 
 Soman, who is also leading the campaign to abolish the oral divorce practice, said, “There is a need for a comprehensive reform in Muslim personal law. Therefore, the government must bring in Muslims Family Law which is based on Quran, and which also confirms upon the constitutional principles of justice and equality.”
 
 Members of AIMPLB recently criticized the central government over its stand to ban the ‘triple talaq’ practice claiming that Muslim community is in support of the practice. However, contrary to this, the findings of the study indicate that 92.1% women want a total ban on oral/unilateral (which also includes divorce declared through phone, letter, SMS or even, e-mail, according to the survey) divorce. They are demanding equal status for women legally and socially since the beginning.
 
 Mufti Abdul Qayyum Mansuri, vice-president of Jamait-E-Ulma-IHind’s, Gujarat chapter, who led the signature campaigns, said, “Women of Muslim community are often being exploited in the name of triple talaq and this is solely due to the mistakes and irresponsibility young men show. In fact, we are making attempts to spread awareness and sensitize members of our own community regarding the issue.”
 
 “Our fight is not against the triple talaq, but rather against the Uniform Civil Code. We don’t want that in the name of issuing a ban on triple talaq, the advocacy groups are making way for the implementation of the uniform civil code as it comes in the way of the religious rights of people from different religions and not just Muslims,” he added.
 
