Mohali: The residents of Phase 1 in Mohali have been living under the threat of outbreak of epidemic in the area as the overflowing sewers have spread stink at the locality. Area being polluted since past four years, the residents have been running from pillar to post to get their grievance redressed but to no avail.

 The residents claimed, they are the victims of apathy of the civic body and Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) as they have been passing the buck on each other. The plight of the 20 odd residents remains unheard forcing them to live under threatening conditions.
 
 The residents complained that the showroom owners have rented out the premises to hotel operators and the hotel operators have connected their   discharge with the sewerage line of the residential area instead of using the pipeline laid for commercial premises opposite the showrooms. this has resulted in blockages in the sewerage lines and also reverse flow of the sewerage waters during the rains.
 
 A resident Jasbir Singh said, he has bought this property two years ago to settle his children but now is thinking to dispose it of owing to this chronic problem. He said, “We have spent our hard-earned money to buy this property but due to apathy of civic bodies it has now become a waste for us. We have tried our level best to get the problem redressed but to no avail till date. We have not been able to move into this house from past two years.”
 
 The residents also alleged that GMADA additional chief administrator (ACA) Sandeep Hans also visited the spot recently and promised for immediate action. But nothing has been done so far.
 
 In 2016, GMADA had also issued notices to the showroom owners seeking explanations for not getting the showrooms converted to hotel industry since the showrooms were allotted under general category, instead of hotel industry. But, so far, no action has been taken on this too. ACA Sandeep Hans could not be reached even after repeated attempts by TOI.
 
 When contacted mayor Kulwant Singh said, “As far as our jurisdiction is concerned, we have been cooperating and getting the sewers cleaned on regular intervals. But the demand of the residents to shift the sewerage pipeline is not under MC purview.”
 
 PHOTO QUOTES
 
 No respite
 
 “There are 20 odd houses which are affected with this chronic problem. The hotels operating from the showrooms have connected their sewerage lines with the residential sewerage pipelines running underground discarding the sewerage pipeline meant for commercial discharge.”
 
 Sadhu Singh | resident of House No 548
 
 “We have been fighting for relief from past four years for now. When we go to GMADA, they direct us to MC and when we approach MC they say shifting of sewerage lines is not under their purview.”
 
 Amardeep Kaur | resident of House No 549
 
 “Showroom number 1 to 18 are using the commercial sewerage discharge pipeline whereas showroom number 19 to 36 have are not doing so. Instead, they are burdening the sewerage line meant for residential usage.”
 
 Gurjeet Singh | resident of House No 545
 
 “Residential sewerage discharge pipeline remains flooded as it is of lesser diameter as compared to commercial sewerage discharge pipeline. So, sewerage water backflows from the manholes in our houses polluting our residences.”
 
 Phula Singh | resident of House No 543
 
 “I have taken up the matter with MC and GMADA but there has been no response. MC is helping in cleaning the sewerage pipeline at regular intervals but we demand that showroom owners must be directed to use sewerage line laid for commercial discharge.”
 
 Gurmeet Kaur | councillor of Ward No 4
 
 
