Coimbatore: Nearly all the bus shelters from Bharathiar University till P N Pudur on the Marudhamalai Road have the same flaw in design. These shelters were set up replacing the thatched-roof shelters in the first week of April 2017.

 70-year-old A Dasappan was confused seeing the seats at the shelter when he reached the Kalveerampalayam bus stop on Marudhamalai Road. The seats were at a height of 4ft. “I have no idea why the corporation and the district administration have wasted so much money and set up these bus shelters. It serves no purpose other than helping advertisers,” said Dasappan. 
 
 C R G Rajkumar, who is a frequent passenger at Bharathiar University bus stop, said only if he was provided with a ladder would he be able to sit in the shelter. 
 
 “Every time I come here and see this, I get annoyed. The government should look into such things. A bus shelter is the most basic necessity. Why waste money like this,” he asked. He said that he had complained to the corporation officials and every time they had promised to resolved it. “It has been more than three months. No action has been taken,” he said.
 
 S P Kumar, 60, a watchman at Kalveerampalayam, said he preferred the thatched-roofed shelters. “It provided us space to sit comfortably and some shade,” he said.
 
 Activists complained that civic body officials never inspected the bus shelters after the contracts were awarded. “Once the contract is awarded, they only collect the lease amount (rent for advertisement boards). Ideally, they should use the revenue generated to maintain the bus shelters,” said K Kathirmathiyon, a consumer activist. 
 
 He said that the regional transport office enumerated 142 illegal bus shelters that had to be removed and submitted a letter to the district collector and corporation commissioner in the regard in 2009. Following the enumeration, the district road safety council passed an order that no new bus shelters would be set up without its approval.
 
 “Despite the order, the district collector had allowed to set up 75 new bus shelters last December. We opposed the move as there are more than 300 illegal shelters already existing in the city,” said Kathirmathiyon.
 
 Whenever a bus shelter is set up, the corporation needs to get approval from the road safety council and the district collector. Also, opinion of regional transport office and city and rural traffic police is extremely important. But all the norms have been violated and advertisements are also set up without permission. “As per Union government, advertisements are not allowed on the highway roads as it blocks the right of way. Two letters have been sent to the district collector by the highways department,” said Kathirmathiyon.
 
 When contacted, corporation assistant town planning officer Ravichandran said platforms will be set up at these shelters. When asked why the platforms were not set up when the shelters were set up, the official said it would be constructed soon. 
 
 
