Colva: A fisheries department project to construct a 400-metre-long wall along the mouth of the River Sal to regulate the flow of sand deposits has run into rough weather, with the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) issuing a stop-work order. Sources said wall was being constructed sans any approval from the authority and was in total contravention of Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) rules.

 The river-training project in the form of a wall in the east-west direction on the mouth of River Sal, overlooking the Arabian Sea together with the renovation of the Cutbona jetty a little upstream, is part of the Rs 100 crore development project of jetties at Betul and Chapora. Fisheries minister Avertano Furtado told TOI that the wall was only meant to stop the formation of a sand bar at the mouth of the River Sal. “It has been a long-standing demand by owners of trawlers, as a sand bar that forms in the area during the monsoon, hinders the movement of vessels to and from the jetty,” he said.
 
 But villagers of Mobor, Cavelossim and other locales have expressed shock at the indiscriminate excavation of the beach to build the wall, and construct a road partly on the beach itself, in total violation of CRZ Notification, 2011.
 
 Iris Passanha, a local activist and president of the Cavelossim Villagers Forum, alleged that the fisheries department has dumped mud, destroyed sand dunes and built the road to the site of the proposed wall illegally. “Such activities in the no development zone (NDZ) of the River Sal will cause severe degradation to the coastal environment, ecosystem and ecology,” he alleged.
 
 Acting on Passanha’s complaint, the GCZMA issued the notice to the fisheries department and pointed out that any proposal of construction, reconstruction, development or repairs between 200 and 500 metres of the high tide line (HTL) from the sea and 100 metres from the river required its approval. 
 
 “The fisheries department has not obtained any prior approval for the purpose of the alleged construction as required under CRZ Notification 1991/2011,” the GCZMA’s notice further read. It has instructed the directorate of fisheries to file its reply and attach a compliance report, licences or approvals from the authorities concerned, approved plans, and other documents before March 6.
 
 Director of the fisheries department, Shamila Monteiro, said the project was based on a model study by IIT-Chennai. “Trawler owners lose a lot of time while docking at the jetty because of the sand bar. Hence, the government decided to train the River Sal at its mouth. Such projects have been carried out at Malpe and Mangaluru in Karnataka,” she said, adding that the department had obtained approvals from all the departments and authorities concerned. 
 
 Following the GCZMA’s stop-work order, the Cavelossim panchayat followed suit too, said sarpanch Viola Costa. She disclosed that a temporary no-objection certificate (NOC) for a road to transport construction material to the site had been issued to the fisheries department, for which the panchayat had collected a Rs 50,000 security deposit. Costa further said that the contractor hadn’t provided a permission from the GCZMA neither for the training wall project nor for the upgrading of the Cutbona jetty.
 
 
