LUCKNOW:   may not only help you get an   or a SIM card. It may also soon give credence to ownership of a property and check land disputes from arising. In a significant move, the UP government is planning to link   of land holders with their property details to create a unique data bank which would be used to verify ownership of properties at the time of registration.

 The department of revenue has prepared a proposal where by the Aadhaar details would be incorporated with the land holdings, essentially in case of agricultural plots. Chairman, Board of Revenue, Praveer Kumar told TOI that the board would soon be starting the process on an experimental basis from Barabanki district before recapitulating in other districts. " Almost all the land holders now have Aadhaar cards. This would help in checking fraudulent registration of properties and subsequent land disputes,’’ he said.
 
 Kumar said that the Aadhaar data would though be kept at the back end but would be used to check the authenticity of a a property and its ownership. According to sources, the revenue department is loaded with nearly 5 lakh cases of land disputes which often trigger a law and order crisis. "This number needs to be checked from increasing further. And that can only be done with the help of giving a unique identity to each property,’’ Kumar said.
 
 The department of revenue has already digitalized all land holdings data and given them a 16 digit unique identification code. "It not only gives us data about the land size, its ownership but case of dispute, if any,’’ he said. This is apart the digitalised maps of agricultural, government gram sabha land which are being scanned and uploaded on the department server.
 
 Kumar said that the state government would also start the system of `Geo-referencing’ where in land holdings will get demarcated to their coordinates with the help of a satellite as precisely as possible. "The department is already in touch with a host of experts including those from the IITs," he added.
 
