SHIMLA: Keylong town of   in   shivered with a minimum temperature of minus 14.9 degrees celsius recorded on Thursday, while the maximum temperature recorded there was minus 2.7 degrees celsius. Kalpa town of Kinnaur recorded a minimum temperature of -8 degrees celsius, and a maximum temperature of 3.6 degrees celsius. The entire state is gripped under  , which is going to intensify further with more rain and snow predicted in the coming days.

 During the past 24 hours, the maximum and minimum temperature across the state decreased by 1 to 2 degrees celsius. A fresh western disturbance is very likely to affect the Western Himalayan region from January 14, and the adjoining plains from January 15 onwards. Shimla recorded a maximum temperature of 8.5 degrees celsius and a minimum of -0.6 degrees celsius, in Dharamshala the maximum temperature was 12.8C and a minimum of 4.8C, in Solan it was 13 degrees maximum and -0.6 degrees minimum.
  
  
 State government officials said efforts were on to restore power supply in remote snowbound areas, while in other parts, power supply has been restored. They said a majority of roads too have been opened for vehicular traffic after removing the snow. Chief secretary VC Pharka -- in a meeting with secretaries, head of departments, Shimla deputy commissioner, and commissioner,  , reviewed the preventive and remedial steps taken by the departments in the wake of heavy snowfall and rain throughout the state.
 
 He directed the departments of I&PR (Irrigation and Public Health), Health, and Shimla MC to take necessary steps to prevent water-borne diseases due to heavy snowfall and rains. He asked the officers concerned to issue a health advisory regarding weather forecast and use of drinking water. He also asked the departments connected with essential services like power supply, roads, water supply, and telecommunication to continue deployment of staff from other areas for maintaining and restoring essential services on priority.   director Dr Manmohan Singh apprised that there was a likelihood of another snowfall on January 15 and 16, on which Pharka directed all departments to remain prepared and vigilant.
 
