JAISALMER: A   scam worth crores of rupees is suspected at   (IGNP), Jaisalmer. It is alleged that colonization department in IGNP Nachana canal area has allotted huge chunk of precious government land at throwaway rates, causing huge losses to government.

 After getting this complaint Jaisalmer Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) deputy SP Narendra Kumar Purohit has seized files of 163 cases out of 233 cases and has begun investigation. A special committee has been formed for the case. Also after getting complaints of substandard work at Ramdeora and Gomat panchayats ACB has begun investigation.
 
 According to information collected and reliable official sources, the colonization department, resolving hundreds of cases of farmers between 2014 and 2015 who illegally possessed land in canal area had allotted huge pieces of land.
 
 It is said that in this allotment crores of rupees were taken and allotment was given to wrong people.
 
 According to sources, in this Rs 2,000 crore scam, around 10,000 bighas of land was allotted and then officer allotted the land on very cheap price which caused heavy losses to state exchequer. In this land scam, it has been alleged that there was exchange of money and that a people of a particular community were allotted land. The   leaders had objected to it and even the state government and district administration complained about it, this issue was raised in many administrative meetings and later this   was brought to the notice of ACB.
 
 ACB deputy SP Narendra Purohit confirming about receiving complaint said ACB has seized records of 230 cases allotted during the term of then colonization commissioner Arun Sharma.
 
 He said the entire case is of around 10,000 bighas of canal land and there have been complaints of irregularities in the allotment. At present a committee has been formed headed by Purohit for investigation.
 
 Purohit said that apart from this, in Gomat gram panchayat in 2015 during the tenure of former sarpanch complaint was received about substandard works. There was information of irregularity of Rs 16 lakh in 13 works and in Ramdeora panchayat in 2014-15 too there was information of financial irregularities.
 
 In both cases, records have been seized and technical investigation has been started. Physical verification of works like road construction, ponds, public toilets etc and other works was done.
 
