NEW DELHI: A 40-year-old   who had allegedly honey-trapped parliamentarian K C Patel and tried to   him was   on Tuesday. She has been booked on charges of extortion and criminal conspiracy, and under the Prevention of Corruption Act. 

 Special commissioner Mukesh Kumar Meena said the woman was demanding Rs 7 crore from the BJP   to settle the case. Otherwise, the accused allegedly threatened Patel, she would end his political career by making his objectionable photos and videos public. According to Meena, the woman is a serial offender.
 
 The woman, who had studied law in college, was arrested around 2.30pm after being questioned at length at the North Avenue police station and has been sent to police custody for five days. “We are trying to find out her modus operandi and the number of people she and her accomplices have blackmailed,” Meena added.
 
 Around 15 people could have been blackmailed by the gang, said the police, adding that it had links in Gurgaon, Ghaziabad and Muzaffarnagar.
 
 The gang used hidden and CCTV cameras to shoot objectionable photos and videos of its targets. A clip featuring Lok Sabha MP Patel was shot from the woman’s mobile phone, which will be sent for forensic examination to retrieve the clip.
 
 “We are hoping to unearth a bigger racket. We have already asked the telecom providers to give us details of the accused’s call details. A team will leave for Muzaffarnagar to question other suspects,” a senior officer said.
 
 The police are now going to re-investigate an earlier rape case filed by the woman at Tilak Marg police station against a Congress MP from Haryana. The MP’s statement will be recorded as the police have inputs of extortion money having been paid in this case.
 
 The police are going to obtain details of her bank accounts and trace sources and destinations of all transactions.
 
  She will be questioned on suspicious deposits in the account. It has been found that the gang had invested from the money extorted from the targets.
 
 The police will also submit an action taken report on the matter to the court. The woman had approached court to register an FIR against the MP, alleging that she was raped by Patel at his official residence on March 3 when he invited her for dinner.
 
 
