GURGAON: If traffic snarls till 2am on January 1 are usual, then New Year's Eve traffic on city roads was nothing unusual. There was heavy deployment of cops on the roads, but in the spirit of the revelry, they went easy on issuing tickets. 

 Over 2,000 cops were posted all over the district since 5pm on December 31. Their focus was the six entertainment hubs - Galleria Market, MG Road, Sector 29, Cyber Hub, Sohna road and Golf Course Road. However, even that could not prevent the snarls. As anticipated, soon after the sunset, these areas were choked.
 
 Galleria Market in Sushant Lok was the first casualty. The crossroad outside the market was completely jammed by 6.30pm, and remained chock-a-block for the rest of the evening. Traffic barely moved for long durations, prompting many to get off their cars and walk the last few metres, leaving their chauffeurs to struggle in the jam. Those who drove themselves, had to spend over an hour to get parking slots. 
 
 The road outside Galleria Market also connects   station to Golf Course Road. Inevitably, the tailbacks soon reached the Metro station, then Iffco Chowk on   expressway and eventually Huda City Centre. 
 
 Vehicles moved at a snail's pace at the highway junction. Though district police had issued an advisory, clearly stating that visitors' vehicles will not be allowed on the 'Mall Mile' between Iffco Chowk and  , many people still drove down to the restricted area, adding to the congestion both at the highway junction and on Golf Course Road. 
 
 Incidentally, cops appeared reluctant to issue challans to violators. The decision was taken for two reasons - firstly, it would have marred the celebrations, and secondly, stopping vehicles to issue challans would have slowed down traffic movement even more. 
 
 As a result, only 32 challans were issued for drunk driving, six for dark films on car windows and 52 for driving on the wrong side. "Our focus was to let the traffic move and avoid any untoward incident, till the celebrations ended in the early hours of Sunday. Challans were issued only it was absolutely necessary," said Balbir Singh, deputy commissioner of police(traffic), Gurgaon.
 
 
