NEW DELHI: A Delhi court took cognizance of the chargesheet filed in the Mercedes hit-and-run case. The   of the juvenile accused have been   with giving false statements about their son in a bid to protect him from being arrested. They are also accused of taking part in a criminal conspiracy to implicate the car’s driver in the case, the document reveals. 

 Moreover, the car was found to be registered in the name of the company in which the teenager’s mother was a co-director. Cops had named the driver as a co-conspirator in the chargesheet. 
 
 The probe was transferred to the departmental inquiry unit of the north district for a relook.
 
 The juvenile was four days short of turning 18 when the incident took place. Cops had requested the Juvenile Justice Board to try him as an adult.
 
 The CCTV footage of the incident has also been included in the chargesheet. The eyewitness account and the CCTV footage clearly reveal that the Mercedes was being driven at a high speed and the driver did not even attempt to apply brakes or avoid a collision. The lack of skid marks at the spot of the incident and statements of two key witnesses who narrowly escaped an collision with the car were mentioned as evidence as well.
 
 The forensic report also established that the car was moving at a speed of nearly 90kmph due to which the victim, Siddharth Sharma, was flung 15-20 feet into the air before he hit the ground.
 
 Statements of more than 50 witnesses, including that of the juvenile’s friends who were with him in the car, are part of the 300-page chargesheet. His friends admitted that the car was being driven by the juvenile at a very high speed. One of them even claimed that they asked the juvenile to slow down but he ignored their pleas.
 
 Cops have named the juvenile’s father as a co-accused for trying to destroy evidence and shielding him from arrest.
 
 In the chargesheet, the juvenile has been declared as a repeat offender since three traffic challans were issued to him earlier. Besides, he was allegedly involved in an accident at Maurice Nagar in December 2015 and the case was mutually settled between both parties.
 
 
