PUNE: Across the city, there has been an increase in cases where logos of expensive cars have been stolen. Cars, particularly Mercedes and   automobiles, are being targeted by suspects, who are said to be minors, especially students.

 Over the last fortnight, three such incidents have been reported in Vishrantwadi, Dattawadi and Peth areas of the city. In Yerawada, the suspects have also stolen two tires off a luxury car.
 
 An officer from the Khadak police station told TOI that detaching a logo is not difficult as they are either stuck using glue or held in position with clips. “Simply by applying a little pressure one can remove the emblems,” the officer explained.
 
 Last week, an owner of a Mercedes sedan from Vishrantwadi lodged the complaint with the local police stating that some unidentified persons made away with all the logos of his car while it was standing in the parking lot of the society. 
 
 On Tuesday, two logos of idle BMW car were stolen from Dattawadi area, whereas, on Saturday, four logos were stolen from a Mercedes parked in the Peth area. The owners have lodged complaints with the local police stations, but the cops are yet to trace the suspects.
 
 
 
 Sub-inspector of the Khadak police station Sanjay Gaikwad pointed out that minors, mainly students, are involved in such thefts of emblems to get easy money.
 
 Gaikwad said, “The minors think that the emblems would fetch good money, up to Rs25,000 per piece, if sold to garage owners,” Gaikwad said.
 
 According to the police, the students seem to be aware that owners would not prefer to drive their cars without emblems. They would eventually approach local garages to buy second-hand emblems at a cheaper rate instead of going to the showroom. “We are questioning a few garage owners in this regard,” Gaikwad said.
 
 
 
 
 Usually, such thefts take place near shopping malls where expensive cars are parked or in housing societies’ parking lots. “Once the owners stepped into the shopping mall or went home, the suspects would remove the emblems and make a run for it,” Gaikwad explained.
 
 The officer said earlier the cost of logos was quite high as it was not manufactured here. “Now, the cost has reduced considerably as companies have started manufacturing them here. These emblems are available between Rs4,000 and Rs6,000 now,” Gaikwad said.
 
