LUCKNOW: The morning of the first day of the new year was overwhelming and full of excitement for Akhilesh’s  . Thousands gathered at   in support of the chief minister to attend the national convention organised by the ‘Akhilesh camp’. 

 Though the convention was to begin around 11am, people started gathering at the venue as early as 7am on a chilly morning. 
 
 Celebrations had begun at night itself in anticipation of a “bigger” organisational role for Akhilesh. In SUVs and on two-wheelers decked with party flags, banners and posters of Akhilesh mixed, crowds took to the streets for New Year’s eve revelry across the city on Saturday night.
 
 Crowds were mostly near Sikandarbagh crossing and at 1090 crossing in Gomtinagar.
 
 On Sunday at Janeshwar Mishra Park, chants of “Akhilesh hum tumhare paas, hum tumhare saath”, “Mubarak ho Akhilesh, tumhi ho Tipu, tumhi Sultan” and “Akhilesh tumhara intezar hai, Lucknow tumhar hai” reverberated the venue. 
 
 The 1,000 meter radius around the park was packed with SUVs and other vehicles with the SP flag.
 
 There were banners and hoardings all around the park with slogans like “Loha tap kundan bhaya”, meaning ‘over- heated iron turns in gold’.
 
 Around 10am, the crowd surged, mainly with young faces. They greeted each other with new year wishes as well as wishes about Akhilesh being back in Samajwadi Party after a day’s expulsion. 
 
 A group of women was heard chanting “Maa ka ashirwaad hai, Akhilesh ek avtaar hai”.
 
 Around 11am, the fleet of the chief minister arrived in the park followed by a convoy of SUVs. A wave of excitement followed and people began shouting, “Mubarak ho, aa gaya sher, mubarak ho”. 
 
 The gap between the stage of the CM and public was around 50 foot. However, thousands of supporters went out of control and began climbing the security barricade. The force deployed to control the crowd had to use thick ropes to stop the people. 
 
 When Samajwadi Party general secretary   Yadav began his speech, the crowds listened to him attentively.   announced that he had four proposals. The first was that Akhilesh Yadav be Samajwadi Party’s national president. The moment supporters heard the words, they began a thunderous applause and loud shrieks of rejoice followed. Ram Gopal asked the audience to show their support to the proposal by raising their hands. While thousands waved their hands without a second’s pause, many began dancing.
 
 As the crowd settled, Ram Gopal announced the second proposal—that Shivpal Yadav be removed from the post of state president of SP. The third was to dismiss Amar Singh from the party and the fourth that Mulayam Singh Yadav should lead the party as a mentor.
 
 After listening to the proposals, supporters began chanting, “Tum hi Tipu, tum hi Sultan” and “Jai Jai Jai Jai Jai Akhilesh”.
 
 Around 11.40am, as Akhilesh came to the dais to address the public, the crowds went out of control again. The jumped off the barricade to reach the stage, but were stopped by security forces. 
 
 While addressing his supporters, the chief minister broke down, saying his father had removed him. Listening to their leader, many workers began crying.
 
 As Akhilesh departed from the stage, his supporters raised the flag of the Samajwadi Party and chanted slogans in his favour. This time, “Re Sultan Akhilesh” and “Arey kaam bolta hai”.
 
 
