THANE: Investigators probing the extortion syndicate reportedly run by gangster   are believed to have named  's henchman Chhota   as one of the wanted accused, following evidence about frequent communication between Shakeel and Kaskar.

 "Shakeel controlled the reigns of the extortion operations and was in constant touch with Kaskar. His two aides have confirmed about his active involvement in the racket," an officer said. Oldtimers, however, called the police claim "highly unlikely"as animosity between Kaskar and Shakeel is part of gangland folklore.
 
 Kaskar's custody, which reached the eighth day on Wednesday, has been extended by four days more by judicial magistrate RT Ingle. The same for Kaskar's aides Israr Jamil Sayyed and Mumtaz Ejaj Shaikh. The police told the court their questioning was needed to nail two Patnabased hitmen--Shammi and Guddu, whose services cops say were used by the mafia for the extortion racket.
 
 "Shami and Guddu are history-sheeters from   and after committing any crime the duo would take shelter in Mumbra with Mumtaz, who too hails from Bihar," a police officer said.
 
 A deeper probe has revealed that a Borivli-based businessman would fund the activities of the syndicate to secure weapons; He too is named as wanted in the list compiled by the anti-extortion cell, led by senior inspector Pradeep Sharma.
 
 Sources said Shakeel was "CEO"of the gang, and was providing all logistical support, including arms. They said they have information that the shooters had fired somewhere, but no complaint was registered against the gang.
 
 The police told the court they would soon get the de tails of the four flats that the gang grabbed from the builder and are awaiting documents from the registrars' office to nail the accused. Kaskar's counsel Shyam Keswani, after a 20-minute briefing in the court with his clients, told the court he was not opposed to the remand, but said irrelevant things were being brought out by the investigators in the public domain through the media.
 
 Keswani said with "an ace police officer like Pradeep Sharma around", the probe should not take time at all and getting information should be easy. "The police want to probe someone from Bihar, and say they have gone to Bihar, but travelling there (should not take more than) a couple of hours. We do not understand why it's taking so much time," he said.
 
 Keswani reiterated in court that what's happening and what the police are doing are irrelevant and have no connection whatsoever with the case.
 
 Police sources said the department is considering invoking the stringent MCOCA against the accused. Shakeel has been named as the second absconding accused in the case.
 
