PANAJI: Social media has been having a field day over a   (BJP) press release, which described defence minister   as a ‘simpleton’. BJP may have been trying to project their bhai as a simple man but labelling him simpleton provided his critics and even neutrals with plenty of ammunition.

 Simpleton, for the unawares, is a “foolish or gullible person” which Parrikar certainly isn’t. The BJP is not alone in leaving readers in splits. As the election battle heats up, parties are providing many “memorable moments” for voters and journalists.
 
 On Wednesday, four former Congress chief ministers  , Pratapsingh Rane, Digambar Kamat and Luizinho Faleiro were on a dais, addressing a press conference. A disgruntled junior Congressman quipped to journalists, “This is the first time all four are addressing the media together, and probably the last time,” drawing chuckles.
 
 As for Congress’ possible CM candidate, the secret has been kept so well guarded that two national observers camping in Goa were forced to ask journalists, “Who could be the Congress CM candidate here?”
 
 For the   (NCP), it is not just party members, but even the brass who seem to be in a quandary over the party’s chances.
 
 Party president Sharad Pawar repeatedly said that the party was contesting 16 seats at the Goa polls, when the actual number is 17.
 
 On how many seats NCP expects to win, an agitated Pawar retorted, “I am not an astrologer.” ‘Astrologer’ Parrikar, meanwhile, has predicted 26 seats for BJP, while the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has left everyone stumped with their calculations which give them an “overwhelming majority”.
 
 In distant Canacona, election officials are not having it easy, thanks to cupboards inside the respective polling stations. Former Canacona MLA Ramesh Tawadkar decided to go it alone after being denied a BJP ticket and the symbol allotted to him is a cupboard.
 
 Nothing wrong with that, but in the interest of keeping elections absolutely free and fair, officials were seen covering cupboards at polling booths, leaving one keen onlooker to wonder if they will now stop everyone from sweeping floors with a broom, the AAP symbol!
 
 In Valpoi, voters have been left confused. Two journalists, assessing the chances of the Rane father-son duo, met a septuagenarian, who was asked her views of the Ranes. The elderly lady was at a complete loss of words to know that senior Rane was still around.
 
  “I thought he was gone. I haven’t seen him in ages,” she said, wrinkling her forehead about the former CM, known for his laidback style of campaigning.
 
 BJP party members responsible for issuing the ‘simpleton’ press release were left apologising to no end, especially as the release had put the words in the mouth of the Union minister for state for information and broadcasting Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore.
 
 Good luck to the one who drafted and sanctioned the press release. As for the rest, there could be more in store.
 
 
