AURANGABAD: A man committed suicide by jumping in front of a running train after being assaulted by the manager of a city-based beer bar and his staff members over a petty issue. The police have arrested the accused for abetment of suicide.

 The deceased has been identified as Pravin Bhise, a resident of Jalannagar. His body was found on the railway track falling under the limits of Cantonment police station on Thursday. Based on the complaint lodged by Deepak Ghorpade, the Bhise’s brother-in-law, the accused has been slapped with charges ranging from abetment of suicide, unlawful assembly, voluntarily causing hurt and intentional insult with an intent to provoke breach of peace.
 
 The arrested accusedmanager of the bar Haveli Bar Sriniwas Sanjeev Rui, staffers   and Rajuwere produced before a local court here on Friday and remanded to police custody till January 30. 
 
 Investigation officer and   said, “Pravin and Deepak on Wednesday afternoon went to Osmanpura-based bar. When Pravin asked for more liquor, Deepak asked the waiter to not consider the order and pass on the bill. Ignoring Deepak, the waiter served him another bottle of liquor. This soon lead to a heated argument. Soon, the staffers along with the manager allegedly assaulted the duo.”
 
 “Pravin, fearing more assault by the bar staffers, called his friends Rakesh Kamble and Sachin Khajekar, who brokered peace between them. Deepak in his complainant has stated that Pravin felt humiliated about the incident,” Shelke added.
 
 “But Deepak and his friends convinced him against it and dropped Pravin home. In the evening, Deepak received a call from his sister Rekha informing that her husband Pravin had left home at 7pm. Soon the family started searching for him, when Deepak received a short call from Pravin at 8.30pm, apologising for the humiliation. The family members soon lodged a missing persons complaint at the Mukundwadi police station,” he said.
 
 “Pravin was found lying unconscious near a railway track on Thursday morning. They immediately took him to the  , where he was declared brought dead,” the officer said. 
 
 
