PANAJI: Four-year-old Atharv Taralkar had just moved to Goa with his mother, Trishna, a doctor with the  . He was still settling in in his new home and school, but on the afternoon of April 5, the unexpected happened. 

 Atharv was playing at home after returning from school, when the alumnium grills of his sixth floor apartment at Dabolim came loose, causing the the four-year-old boy to fall out of the window to the ground outside, leading to his instant death.
 
 In the midst of such unspeakable grief, his mother did the unimagineable. Dr Taralkar asked her colleagues at the naval hospital at Dabolim to contact the   bank in the state, as she wanted her child’s   harvested.
 
 Within the next few hours, enucleation of Atharv’s cornea was carried out, making him Goa’s youngest cornea donor so far, in a state where eye   is very rare. Only around 40 corneas have been harvested for donation in the last seven years of the existence of the Rotary Eye Bank of Goa at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMC) in Bambolim, which is jointly managed by Rotary Club of Panaji Eye Bank Trust and the department of opthalmology of GMC.
 
 Atharv’s cornea has been transported to a hospital in Pune, where a recipient in need was waiting for the transplant. Cornea from one donor can help treat blindness in two persons and the transplant has to be done within 72 hours of the harvesting.
 
 “As Atharv’s was a medio-legal case, we had to wait for the autopsy to be completed. Four and a half hours had already passed by then, but we still managed to harvest his cornea. But one must appreciate the mother, who had immense courage and the presence of mind to think of eye donation at such a terrible moment. She immediately contacted her husband, posted in Jhansi, and after consulting him, called us,” Vijay Priolkar, chairperson of the Rotary Eye Bank of Goa, said.
 
 Rotary Eye Bank of Goa has five teams, 17 volunteers and a helpline which is manned 24 hours a day. 
 
 “Once the helpline gets a call to harvest a cornea, leader of one of the five teams is alerted. The team leader or one from his team then opens the eye bank office at GMC and picks up the kit. Simultaneaously, a doctor at GMC’s opthalmology department is alerted. With the doctor and the kit, the volunteer then travels anywhere from Canacona to Pernem to have the cornea harvested,” Priolkar said.
 
 The donation has to take place within six hours of death. And cornea donations of young donors like Atharv are more useful in treating blindness, while cornea of elderly donors are utilized for therapautic use and medical studies.
 
