MUMBAI: The Shivaji Park police on Friday night dragged a 38-year-old man to the police station from the Shivaji Park maidan, where he was playing football, and let him go only after an hour following a BJP activist Suresh Advani's complaint about being hit by the ball.The politician allegedly used his influence to get the cops to intervene. While no FIR was registered, Deven Bharti, joint police commissioner (law and order), has ordered an inquiry into the matter.

 Worli resident  , a web developer, narrated his ordeal on Facebook. He stated that at 8.30pm, he was among 20 youths playing a friendly game at the maidan.Referring to the BJP man, he stated, “This random chap, who apparently walked right through our playing area (who we didn't even notice) got hit on the leg by our Football (absolutely accidentally) and starts yelling and abusing. A couple of us said “Sorry“... But the chap won't let go and continued to yell and abuse...“ He added since he was at the other end, he walked up to where some of his teammates were gathered and informed the politician that they were on a playground and it was he who had walked through the playing area.
 
 “The politician wanted to bully me. He claimed he was a top politician,“ Chanchalani told TOI. When the neta told him he'd make his life miserable, Chanchalani “dared him to do it.“ Advani left the spot and returned, in 15 minutes, “with 25-30 cops.“ “From a distance, I saw him pointing the policemen towards me, telling him, isko arrest karo,“ the post read.Chanchalani added the neta told police he had abused PM Narendra Modi. “On the way he tells another policeman, “isko poora raat station mei rakhne kaa, chhoda to main   ko complain karunga,“ the post said.
 
 “The cops asked me to sit in their vehicle but I said I will take my car. Two of my friends accompanied me. Inside the police station, the politician started yelling at us and when I began speaking, he was interrup ting and the police personnel were mute spectators,“ Chanchlani said, adding “I asked a cop if the politician was in-charge of the police station.“ Chanchlani said the policemen noted down his name, address, age and allowed him to go after an hour. He added  , a local BJP leader whom Advani had called up, had called him up on Saturday through a friend and asked him to close the matter as it was a case of misunderstanding. Inspector Gulab Patil said, “There is no case. A police van had gone there and it could have been 3-4 personnel and not 25-30.We have called the night staff for inquiry.“ Deven Bharti said, “I have ordered an inquiry by the DCP.“
 
 Jadhav, who said he was BJP Mumbai vice-president, told TOI he was in   when the incident happened. “Our party worker Suresh Advani told me the youths had abused the PM and so he got angry. He told me his leg had been operated upon and the ball hit had hit it. I've spoken to both and tried to make them understand so that this issue can be closed now,“ said Jadhav.
 
