As the city gears up to celebrate   and Durga Puja, devotees are seen to throng the city’s well-known temples like Jai Bhavani, Chaturshrungi or Tambdi Jogeshwari. However, the city is also a hub for various community goddesses, and the knowledge of their history remains restricted amongst few.

 These communities were distinguished by their occupations and mainly consisted of various artisans. We explore these important temples and their significance in the history and culture of the city.
 
  
  This Goddess is said to be the family goddess of the   community. People from this community mainly came from the coastal areas of Konkan and Goa. They were tasked with making jewellery for various deities.
 “The temple, close to the Mutha river bed is said to have been established sometime in the later   per iod by one Chintamanseth Divekar. It used to receive patronage from the Peshwa government and Parvati Sansthan as per the notings in Inam Commission (a body which was established in the year 1852 to look into land dealings),” said Pandurang Balkawade, a noted historian in the city. The idol is made of marble.
  
 
  
  This goddess is said to be the goddess of the coppersmiths who historically lived in the city. The community was reasonably large in the erstwhile Pune city whose boundaries did not span much further than the present Kasba Peth. The temple is said to have been built before the Peshwa era and is estimated to be 300 years old.
 The idol is made from stone and is around three feet high. An intricate design behind the idol adorns the sanctum. This has been cast in silver weighing around 20 kgs. The original temple is said to be restored in the year 1906. Over the years, there were a lot of layers of paint on the original idol. However, with restoration process going on, the originality of the idol is getting reflected.
 
 
 This temple too is said to belong to the later Peshwa period. It is said to belong to the artisans who mainly worked for casting metals to make various products.
 “Historically, all the artisans had special privileges when it came to making idols, accessories, jewellery for the deities. Hence, these communities too had a close bonding with the deities. There is a need today to study all the folk literature to see how these communities have evolved over a period of time,” said Saili Palande Datar, a city-based Indologist.
 
  
  This community made bangles from shells, glass or clay. Although the temple is said to belong to the Peshwa period, the lineage of the community could have come right from the   period. “During previous excavations carried out in the Kasba area, there were traces of shell bangles which were found belonging to the Satvahana period.It indicated a presence of bangle making industry in the city,” said Datar.
 
 
  
  
 This temple is said to be built by a Sardar by the surname of Apte during the Peshwe reign. “The speciality of the temple is that there are 12 jyotirlingas ( of Shiv) in front of the goddess in the inner sanctum,” informed Balkawade. Adding to this, Datar said, “During this period, the battlefield had shifted to the northern and southern parts of the country. With peace prevailing in the central part of the country, people started having a surplus which they used to revive religion, art, and culture. Thus, many community or family temples were built during this period. This might have been one such example.”
 
