NASHIK: The Kalidas Kala Mandir on Wednesday staged 10 plays as part of the ongoing contest at the Anant Kubal Memorial Theatre festival. 

 Three teams from Mumbai, two each from Pune and Ahmednagar and one team each from Nashik, Kalyan and Dombivali presented plays highlighting various social issues.
 
 Maher Dokfode, festival coordinator, said, "Plays presented by teams from Mumbai and Pune dominated the competition's second day. These plays dealt with a variety of subjects - right from family and relationships to national and international issues."
 
 The day started at 9am with a presentation of 'Ekha Lekhakacha Mrutyu' or an author's death presented by Ahmednagar-based team - Nirmiti Rangmanch. The play was a psychological take on the feeling of ending one's life in the human mind. Pune-based Rang Tushar group presented a popular one-act play 'Pen Friend' written by noted Marathi theatre actor Girish Oke. Three plays from Mumbai were staged including ' ' by 'Natya Sanchit', 'Udakshant' by Abhiruchi group, and 'Ithe Nav Thewayla Jaga Nahi' by Anubhuti group.
 
 "All three plays presented by the Mumbai teams were amazing. They used modern theatrical techniques, with a new presentation style and used each corner of the stage innovatively. It was a learning curve for us to watch these plays," said  , a student of dramatic art at K K Fine Arts College.
 
 Nashik's 'Natya Seva' group presented a play entitled - 'Every day is Sunday'- a lighter take on life written by Shantanu Chandatre. This was the only play from Nashik that was held on Wednesday. The organisers had a separate category from Mumbai for groups from Kalyan-Dombivali. A Dombivali-based group - Swami Natyangan -presented 'Yugmak', before the curtains fell at 7.30pm.
 
 On Thursday, groups from Chandrapur, Bhusaval, Dombiwali, Chiplun and Mumbai will present their plays from 9am. The prize distribution for the contest winners will be held at 7.30pm. Veteran actress Suhas Joshi will felicitate the winners.
 
 "This year, we introduced several new individual prizes for technicians and actors. Apart from director and writer, we will also felicitate best actor in comic role and technicians handling light, sound and set design," secretary of the Nashik chapter Sunil Dhage, said. 
 
 The state-level Anant Kubal Memorial One-Act Play festival held its sixth edition in Nashik this year. In all, 26 plays from all six divisions of the state contested for the top three awards and cash prizes. The festival is known as one of the top five one-act play competitions in Maharashtra.
 
