NOIDA: The Centre for   (CCCI) has received over 1,200 complaints throughout the past year with most of them related to financial fraud, followed by crimes related to  .

 The centre was inaugurated on May 9, 2016. One year on, officials said two major   — the Ablaze Info Solutions scam and the   scam, in which, allegedly, 6.5 lakh and 40,000 people respectively were duped, have led to the most number of complaints recorded at the centre.
 
 Officials said almost 250 complaints received by CCCI came from those who had been victims of these two scams, while the total number of complainants who reported financial fraud related to lottery, mobile tower installation and insurance amounted to 384.
 
 The overall number of complaints received from May 9 last year, till date, is 1,274, while the total number of complaints solved are 840. Of the total crimes (835), at least 125 were related to job issues, where the complainants were duped by offers of online jobs, while those related to credit/debit card issues numbered 326. “The most number of complaints should have come for credit/debit card issues, but due to these two major scams, we got more complaints for these,” said SP (city) Dinesh Yadav, while addressing the media.
 
 At 439, the second highest number of complaints were related to social media. “These were mostly by women who alleged defamation, stalking and other crimes related to social media sites such as Facebook and WhatsApp,” Yadav said. Facebook-related complaints were 194, while there were 19 WhatsApp-related complaints and 12 for obscene calls and messages.
 
 The CCCI also conducted two surveys prepared by a private university to map the perception of internet users and victims. “The two surveys contain a questionnaire to study the perception of normal internet users and that of victims, who were asked to describe the first police response they received,” he said, adding the findings of both surveys will be tabulated and released in a month.
 
 Of the 1,500 internet users who have been mapped for the survey, 400 are real victims. The police now plan to conduct two more surveys to map perception of officers probing   and those of prosecutors who present digital evidence in courts. The findings will be shared with UP police headquarters and recommendations for corrections suggested if required.
 
 
