Nagpur: Indiscriminate and faulty use with wrong combinations of pesticides, and direct and extended exposure without any protective gear for days together to insecticides are some of the apparent reasons for the death of farmers and farm workers in Yavatmal district in the last two months.

 These are the findings of a team of scientists from the Central Institute of Cotton Research (CICR), the Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV) of Akola, agriculture officers from Yavatmal and the agriculture director of the state quality control department from Pune who visited Manoli and Kalamb villages in Ghatanji and Kalamb talukas in Yavatmal district on Thursday.
 
 The team found that Bandu Sonule, 40, from Manoli, who was a farmworker first complained of irritation in eyes and was given some eye drops at the primary health centre. The second day he began vomiting but was taken to the GMCH only on the third day (September 22). He died there on September 23. 
 
 Sonule fell sick while spraying in the field of Shankar Ramkrishan Chaudhary of Amdi village in Ghatanji taluka. The pesticide sprayed by Sonule was a combination of Diafenthuron and Biosteem.
 
 The team also visited the family of Devidas Ramaji Madavi from Kalamb village. This worker was spraying in the fields of Amar Vitthal Gurnule in the same village. Madavi was spraying Prophenos and cypermethrin combination (Profex Super).
 
 Some farmers are also using monocrotophos (class I pesticide) which is scheduled to be banned in 2020. This makes the plants look very green and healthy but it also causes resurgence of pink boll worm. “The chances of exposure to toxic chemicals increase as the farmers use many non-recommended combinations,” the scientists said.
 
 The acting CICR director VN Waghmare told TOI that the cultivation practices by farmers over the years have shifted towards short-term gains which are having negative long term effects. “The cotton sowed in June should be terminated in November or December. But farmer extends it for two months more. Due to this the cycle of pink boll worm doesn’t break and the cycle continues,” he said. 
 
 According to him, this is the reason of early onset of pests since the last few years. “The insect travels as much as 200-300 km. This is particularly true to Yavatmal, Nandurbar and Jalna districts. Hence, even sucking pests too come much early. White fly, a sucking pest mainly found in north India, has also been attacking cotton in the last two years in this region,” he said.
 
 The team also found that most of the farm labours engaged in spraying want to cover as much areas as possible in a single day to earn more. Also, they try to work in as many fields as possible in the season. They end up working for 8-10 hours a day at a stretch whereas they should be working just in morning hours without eating or drinking. 
 
 “The farmers take smoke breaks, tobacco chewing breaks or drink water with the same hands that they are spraying with without washing hands. They don’t wear a shirt allowing more body area to be exposed to pesticide,” said the scientists.
 
 Dhanraj Undirwade, head of entomology department of PDKV who was also a team member, said that this year the plant height of cotton is already one and half to two feet higher than average. “They are taller than the average height of a man. It also means that the spray comes back on the face of the person spraying the pesticide,” he said.
 
 
