MUMBAI: It hasn't been a week since the   issued a clarification over the nineplus-nine year tenure for office bearers in the Indian cricket board, and underlined that it is not just nine years as maintained by the Committee of Administrators ( ), another Lodha Committee reform ­ of age cap ­ is now under a cloud.

 The CoA has removed the name of senior cricket administrator MP Pandove's name from the list of Indian Premier League ( ) Governing Council members, which some officials the   now claim is another effort on part of the court-appointed administrators to “misinterpret the SC order“.
 
 Pandove's name has been removed from the list of IPL GC because he is over 70 years of age. BCCI old guard says, “Read the July 18 SC order once again. It says no elected office-bearer can be above the age of 70. Now, they want to apply that rule everywhere. So, where's this all going?
 
 Do all parties have to go to the SC again, seeking clarification?” This age cap issue became a bone of contention in what was otherwise a smoothly held meeting between the CoA and top BCCI office-bearers in Mumbai on Monday. The CoA has not rejected the BCCI's decision to call for a Special General Meeting (SGM) next month. However, the date ­ earlier slated to be April 9 ­ hasn't been confirmed yet. At Monday's meeting, it was decided to reschedule the meeting of the   (NCA) but the fate of the SGM still lies in limbo where dates are concerned.
 
 Two days ago, BCCI joint secretary   had sent an email to the members of the NCA and called for a meeting in Bangalore on March 28. However, considering NCA board's chairman happens to be Saurashtra Cricket Association's Niranjan Shah ­ who is above 70 years of age ­ the CoA questioned the wisdom in calling the meeting. Reacting to this, state units said: “CoA is clearly being misguided here. Their own people don't seem to have interpreted the SC order correctly for them. Even where SGM is concerned, state units are free to send their representatives above 70 years of age to the meeting if they believe that their experience will count in handling several issues slated to be discussed. “The age cap is going to be a thorn of an issue as this goes forward,” an official in the know of things said.
 
