: I am a 30-year-old man, married for 5 years and have no children yet. I had a love marriage, and it is going well with some ups and downs. It is just that whenever we fight, my wife tries to indicate that she's doing me a favour by staying with me. A few times, she has even told that she wants to leave me.

  Here's another problem. A few months ago, I met my ex-girlfriend who is a divorcee and I encouraged her to go for a second marriage. I was dating her before getting married but broke up due to her family background.
 
  Now, when I am encouraging her for second marriage, I feel like I am in love with her again, and don't want to lose her this time. But the issue is I am married, and obviously, my wife and family won't accept her. Plus, there are chances that her family will also oppose our relation.
 
  What should I do now? Shall I leave my ex-girlfriend again or stay in touch with her? We both love each other a lot. The only fear I have is what if this new relation does not work somehow, and I lose both of them. Please advise me what to do.- 
 
 
  
 : Based on the description you have provided of your wife's behaviour, she seems to have a personality problem, where there are frequent mood changes and anger issues. Such people are very difficult to satisfy(in every sense) and are always conflict prone. You both can approach a therapist, and discuss your problem with an open mind... there could be a solution. Trying to communicate with her, without getting angry or judgmental is the key.
 
  Regarding the second issue, it is better that you stay within the boundaries of your marriage, unless and until you decide to legally separate from your current wife. This will safeguard your interests and future prospects.
 
  Till then take a decision - to be married or to get separated- and stand by it. Convince yourself first and you will find it so easy to go ahead with either.
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com 
 
