AMARAVATI: Blowing the conch two years ahead of the  , the opposition YSR Congress on Saturday urged the cadre to get battle-ready to take on the TDP with a call to the party rank and file to   against corruption in the   government. 

 At the well-attended two-day national plenary at a specially-decorated dais in an open ground near Acharya Nagarjuna University (ANU) in Mangalagiri in the capital city region, party president   said the people are fed up with the three-year rule of the TDP government and waiting for an opportunity to send Naidu and his ministers packing.
 
 In what could be a clear message, the plenary set its focus on Naidu as leader after leader who spoke at the meeting lambasted the three-year rule and targeted the TDP regime in 16 of the 18 resolutions adopted at the plenary. Making a brief address, Jagan said Naidu has turned the government as his personal fiefdom. "People of the state are saying that they have never seen such an atrocious government in their lifetime. They are eagerly waiting to oust the TDP government," he thundered amidst loud clapping and whistling.
 
 As slogans like 'Jai Jagan' and 'CM Jagan' rent the air, Jagan released a book titled 'Emperor of Corruption' in which the party alleged Naidu had amassed Rs 3.75 lakh crore through kickbacks in the last three years alone. Appealing to the party leaders and cadre to stay united in their fight against the TDP, he said the party cadre should go to the masses to highlight the undemocratic rule of Naidu government.
 
 Strongly pitching for revival of the his later father YSR's legacy, he said no leader in the country had stayed in the hearts of the people even eight years after death except YSR. "YSR is still alive in the hearts of millions of people in the state right from elderly people to the students. It is because of his golden rule. The only chief minister who is alive after death is YSR," said Jagan, prompting the party cadre to raise slogans like ' ' and 'Amar Rahe YSR.'
 
 Jagan said that any leader should live for the people and asserted that YSRC is following in the footsteps of YSR and take every step to live up to the expectations of the people. He said the party would chalk out an action plan for the next two years during the deliberations at the plenary.
 
