PUNE: The civic body will take action against   parked   flyovers to stop misuse of public space.

 Shriniwas Bonala, the traffic planner of the   (PMC), said, “The PMC never allowed   under flyovers. Action will be taken against all those using the space under   for parking because it is misuse of civic space. Parking there is illegal and strict action will be taken against those charging money for parking vehicles. The PMC will also inform police and seek action.”
 
 The civic body’s decision comes after the state government declared space under flyovers in Mumbai as “no parking zone” and notified the Bombay high court.
 
 Citizens have been complaining for long about some people marking parking lots under flyovers across the city and charging vehicle owners issuing fake receipts.
 
 Vehicles are parked under bridges and flyovers at various places, including Warje, Shivajinagar, Deccan, Hadapsar, Wakdewadi, Satara Road and Katraj. Besides private two- and four-wheelers, commercial vehicles are also parked there. The space is also used by hawkers.
 
 Recently, Mumbai’s Pranav Polikar had approached the Bombay high court raising a concern that parking under flyovers could be risky for Mumbai considering that terror attacks could be carried out using these parking spaces. The state government told the high court that it would earmark the space under flyovers as “no parking zone” and would take action against those using this space for parking.
 
 Parking under flyovers continues in violation of high court’s June 20, 2013 order upholding then chief minister’s decision in 2008 to ban such parking because of the possibility of sabotage and also the government’s stand in 2012 about a threat perception. The high court had then directed not to use the space below flyovers for parking in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai from June 29, 2013.
 
 In Pune, activists have been highlighting the issue with the PMC, claiming that parking under flyovers caused traffic congestion and the space could be used for illegal activities.
 
 “Parking vehicles below flyovers not only causes problem to the traffic, but it may also lead to nuisance. The areas under flyovers become dump yards for abundant vehicles and den of criminal activities,” said Prashant Inamdar of Pedestrian First. He said the PMC’s parking policy should consider such issues and mention such places, where parking should be banned.
 
 “The space under the flyovers is part of the civic properties. Its use without any permission is illegal. It may amount encroachment on public space and action according to it can be taken,” said Satish Kulkarni, head of PMC’s estate department. 
 
 According to the administration’s estimate, about 50% of the city’s traffic comprises private vehicles. Free parking on roads encouraged the use of private vehicles.
 
 Illegal parking along roadsides and on footpaths leads to chaos. Pedestrians cannot use footpaths because of encroachment by vehicle users. Data collated by the RTO found that Pune was adding at least 2 lakh vehicles each year.
 
