Nagpur: Ramdas Madawi, 30, who had been arrested for allegedly abducting 9-year-old Sujal Wasnik from Lihigaon and demanding Rs10 lakh ransom, slit his throat with a razor blade in a suicide bid at New Kamptee police station on Tuesday afternoon. He was rushed to Mayo Hospital, where he is recuperating, and his condition is stable, said senior PI Mukhtar Sheikh. Besides Madawi, the cops have arrested one more suspect, identified as Sunil Meshram (38), in the case. Meshram was produced before court on Tuesday, which remanded him to police custody till September 29. Madawi would be produced before the court as per doctors’ recommendations. On September 16, Sujal, a student of standard IV, had come back from school, changed his uniform, and gone out to play with friends. His family, relatives and locals started searching for him after he didn’t return home till late in the night. A complaint of kidnapping was lodged by Sujal’s father Nepal, a farmer the same night. Madawi, who resided in the vicinity, had helped others search for Sujal. Cops too had carried out searches at desolate places, in farms on the outskirts, nearby wells, nullahs, and also scanned CCTV footage from railways stations etc, but in vain. On September 24, Sujal’s neighbours received a call from an unknown number. The unidentified person claimed to have abducted Sujal, and demanded Rs10 lakh ransom. The neighbours passed on the message to the family, which arranged the money immediately. Nepal had reportedly disposed of some land recently, said sources, which had probably prompted the culprits to kidnap Sujal. The kidnapper had asked relatives to leave the bag with the money in Tarsa area. He had also instructed that as soon as he collects the bag, relatives can pick up Sujal from a petrol pump 2km away. Relatives followed the instructions, but did not find Sujal. So, before the kidnapper could flee on a bike after collecting the money, locals caught him and tied him to a tree. He was thrashed brutally with sticks before being handed over to the cops. During interrogation, Madawi disclosed the name of his accomplice, Meshram, who too was taken into custody. However, Meshram reportedly claimed that he had never see Madawi before. The duo was to be produced before the court together on Tuesday. However, before leaving the police station, Madawi went to the toilet, where he slit his throat. Cops were stunned to find him in a pool of blood. Cops said they did not know how he procured a blade while in custody. Cops have registered an offence of suicide attempt against Madawi. It’s learnt that Madawi had started a gym in the vicinity a few months ago. He had borrowed substantial amount from others, and may have kidnapped the boy to get money to repay his loan, sources said. They also claimed he needed money to marry his girlfriend.