NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   addressed a rally in Uttar Pradesh's   on Sunday, launching a tirade of attacks on the ruling   and its alliance partner   while campaigning for the fourth phase of state assembly elections.

 "Vanvaas of vikas in Uttar Pradesh must end now. Country is moving ahead at fast pace and so must Uttar Pradesh," said Prime Minister Modi while addressing a rally in Fatehpur.
 
 Continuing his tirade against the Samajwadi Party, the Prime Minister said the party is inconsiderate towards the law and order situation.
 
 "The SP is least concerned about improving law and order situation in UP. I urge people to elect a government that would ensure safety of people," he said.
 
 "Why is the policing system so inefficient in UP? Why are complaints not registered? What work culture is it?" he added.
 
 Taking a jibe at the SP-Congress alliance, Prime Minister Modi dubbed it as a pact between two sinking ships.
 
 "Both (SP and Congress) were sinking so they thought of holding each other's hands in order to save themselves," he said.
 
 Asserting that the BJP government would bring in a wave of development in Uttar Pradesh, Prime Minister Modi assured that their government would waive off farmers' loans as soon as they would come into power. 
 
 Earlier, Uttar Pradesh chief minister expressed hope that the people of the state will vote in large numbers in the favour of the alliance.
 
 Replying to a question whether he would like to wish his estranged uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav, who is contesting from Jaswantnagar, the chief minister wished that all SP candidates won the polls.
 
 On the question why Mulayam Singh, whom Akhilesh ousted as the National President of the party in January, did not turn up for joint rallies with him, Akhilesh Yadav said he probably wanted to cover other areas.
 
 Meanwhile, voting for the 69 seats of the third phase of state Assembly elections is underway. A total of 2.41 crore voters will decide the fate of 826 candidates in third phase polling comprising 12 districts.
 
 There are 16,671 polling centres and 25,603 polling stations in this phase.
 
 
