PANAJI: Much to the relief of the BJP and defence minister Manohar Parrikar, the saffron flag continued to fly high over the party bastion, with sitting Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker proving to be a giant killer, defeating Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate. That Monserrate has never tasted defeat since his entry into state politics in 2002, makes Kuncalienker’s victory all the more significant.

 After a neck-and-neck fight, Kuncalienker was re-elected for a second consecutive term on Saturday by a margin of 1,069 votes.
 
 The state capital has been Parrikar’s favourite hunting ground and the BJP has continued its reign over it for the sixth consecutive term since 1994, but not before Taleigao strongman, Monserrate, created a brief scare.
 
 Monserrate’s political gamble to challenge Parrikar in Panaji appears to have backfired and the former St Cruz MLA appears to have committed political suicide, observers say. In the fight between Monserrate and Parrikar’s protege, Kuncalienker has emerged the giant killer.
 
 Political pundits say Kuncalienker’s win has not only managed to save BJP the blushes but has also raised his political net worth within the party.
 
 According to the Election Commission (EC), BJP polled 7,924 votes compared to the 6,855 votes polled by Monserrate who contested on the United Goans Party (UGP) ticket. Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Valmiki Naik came a distant third with 1,944 votes.
 
 Kuncalienker tested political waters in the 2015 bypoll, after Parrikar was elevated to the Union ministry of defence, and won with 9,989 votes, defeating Congress candidate Surendra Furtado, who secured 4,621 votes.
 
 Data indicates that Monserrate has made the BJP sweat in Panaji, a constituency which the party cadre had expected to waltz through. Monserrate’s bid to challenge the BJP was fuelled after he won a clear majority in the Corporation of the City Panaji (CCP) elections. The Monserrate-backed panel controls 17 of the 30 seats in the civic body.
 
 Panaji constituency has over 22,000 voters spread across the Bahujan Samaj, Gaud Saraswat Brahmin (GSB) community and Christian community. Things have not been too rosy for Kuncalienker, who has had to overcome dissent within the BJP and RSS ranks, which have not appreciated his abrasive manner.
 
 After ruling Taleigao constituency for over a decade and St Cruz for the last five years, Monserrate took the risky step into Panaji. Armed with support of Congress, and the notion that he had managed to break the saffron party’s vote bankBoca-de-Vacaduring the 2015 civic polls, Monserrate was confident of winning Panaji.
 
 AAP candidate Valmiki Naik has clearly eaten into Monserrate’s votes, as a large section of the Christian voters, who were wary of the BJP, chose to vote AAP. 
 
 The entry of the Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) did not help the BJP either, with its candidate Ketan Bhatikar, bagging just 323 votes.
 
 
