NAGPUR: Advising   (VCA) and city cops to find out some workable solution to settle their dispute amicably, the   of  , on Thursday, put the ball in advocate General Rohit Deo’s court.

 Deo was asked to hear both sides, apply his mind and take decision on future course of action before March 9. He was, however, granted exemption from personal appearance while granting liberty to submit his report through government pleader Bharti Dangre.
 
 The court orally warned that if consensus was not reached between both the warring factions, they could decide the case on merits and may direct investigating agencies like CBI to probe charges labelled by them against each other. “It may open the pandora’s box for both parties,” a division bench comprising justice Bhushan Gavai and justice Indira Jain said.
 
 The judges also asked the VCA officials on why they issue complimentary passes due to which the entire controversy was created. “Stop issuing passes even to the judges,” they orally told senior counsel Sunil Manohar appearing for VCA.
 
 The newly added respondents — DCP Zone-I Deepali Masirkar, DCP (Special branch) Ravindra Pardesi, and DCP (crime) Ranjan Kumar Sharma — were present during the hearings.
 
 On court’s instructions, the VCA agreed to withdraw all adverse allegations made against the police in its application for quashing of FIR against them. Even Akshay Naik, pleading for VCA in the PIL filed by social worker Paramjeet Singh Kalsi seeking directives to the association to pay security dues, agreed to withdraw another set of adverse allegations against the cops. The court asked both VCA lawyers to complete formalities within three days.
 
 Earlier in morning, the court asked Manohar and Dangre to sit together and find out a workable solution in the public larger interest. Even Shrirang Bhandarkar, appearing for Masirkar, was also told to join them. They were asked to gather in the government pleader’s chamber during lunch hours to discuss on how the dispute could be sorted out and inform the court at about 2.30pm.
 
 “We’ve, several times, directed Dangre to communicate happenings with police commissioner and find out a solution. The parties shouldn’t wash dirty linen in public and invite scrutiny. It may happen that BCCI wouldn’t allow any match to the city in future owing to such controversies,” the judges orally cautioned.
 
 When the hearing resumed at 2.30pm, the police informed that they would like to move ahead with the investigations into FIR against VCA. The judges directed them to complete the probe before March 2 and place it before the AG. Manohar then requested that they, too, want to place their contentions against police before Deo, which was allowed by the court. 
 
 In morning session, fierce arguments ensued between the senior counsel and government pleader, who countered each other’s charges. It was then that the court interfered and told both sides to settle the dispute amicably, as it was of nobody’s interests. Manohar stated that they wouldn’t have ever approached the court, if the FIR was not lodged. Bhandarkar then argued that VCA officials labelled them as extortionist which was flashed across the media. 
 
 
