Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has formed a committee consisting of animal lovers, activists and practising veterinarians to prepare an action plan for carrying out   (ABC) operations of stray dogs in the city.

 On Saturday, the NMC invited all stakeholders including veterinary doctors, NGOs working for animal welfare, representatives of pharmaceutical industry and animal lovers for a meeting that was chaired by mayor Nanda Jichkar and ruling party leader Sandip Joshi. The committee has been asked to submit an action plan within a week, informed Dr Gajendra Mahalle, NMC veterinary officer.
 
 During the meeting, pharmaceutical representatives agreed to help NMC for ABC operations. “They will provide some medicines for free of cost,” said animal lover Kavita Ratan, one of the committee members.
 
 Activists Ankita Shah and Aparna Modak, who are also on the committee, pointed out that operations should be carried out as per the norms laid by Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI). “As per the board’s criteria, the implementing agency should be must be registered with AWBI and should have trained veterinarians with at least two years’ experience in conducting ABC programs along with trained para-veterinary staff. NMC should follow this while selecting the implementing agency,” they said. 
 
 Over the years, sterilization of stray dogs has been a complete failure in the city despite repeated directives from the judiciary. NMC has faced criticism for bogus ABC programme which even led to ABC programme being discontinued some years back. 
 
 To ensure transparency in the process, the committee suggested that CCTV cameras should be installed at ABC centres. Mahalle said that NMC will be responsible for setting-up more ABC centres in the city. 
 
 As per AWBI guidelines, the clinic area should include a fully-equipped operating theatre, pre-operation preparation area, separate room/area for cleaning and sterilizing instruments, storage room for medicines and equipment and continuous water and electricity supply. 
 
 “We are scouting for places that will meet these conditions. At least five such centres will be set up in the city.” Mahalle added.
 
 In February, the NMC, had constituted a special committee to monitor ABC operations in the city. The committee included additional deputy municipal commissioner, district animal husbandry deputy commissioner, dean of Government Veterinary College, NMC's health officer and members of People For Animals (PFA), Indian Society For Animal Human Welfare and Green Vigil Foundation.
 
 
