Chennai/Bengaluru:   Technology Solutions (CTS) said it will 
  until further notice. The US-headquartered IT firm will continue to support existing applicants in the two categories, but it will suspend fresh filings, signaling its intent to ramp up its onsite presence. 

 In an email to some employees, Cognizant said, “As part of our strategic business goals, we continue to assess the benefits and efficiency of our internal programs which are evolving to align with our long term objectives. As part of this, we will no longer be filing   PERM (  and   applications) until further notice,” the email read.
 
 When TOI reached out to Cognizant, the company said, “Cognizant has always been a significant sponsor of Permanent Residence for associates and will continue to be so in the future.”
 
 Cognizant move to halt processing of EB2 and EB3 applications could dash the hopes of many 
  holders who are hoping for permanent residency. “The EB1 route is typically used for senior management or professionals with extraordinary ability. EB2 and 3 visas are for skilled workers and professionals, mid and lower level employees,” said Mark Davies, managing partner, Davies & Associates.
 
 The EB1 visa offers employment based permanent residency for distinguished individuals who are recognized in their field -- an outstanding professor or researcher, or a multinational executive or manager. The US Citizenship and Immigration Services says EB2 immigrant visa category is for professionals with advanced degrees and individuals with exceptional ability in the sciences, arts, or business. An individual is eligible for EB3 visas if they’re skilled workers, requiring a minimum of 2 years training or work experience. A professional worker requires at least a US baccalaureate degree or a foreign equivalent.
 
 In a recent earnings calls, Cognizant said they are reducing dependence on H-1B visas and they have applied for less than half the number of visas it sought last year. The IT firm is expanding hiring in its US delivery centers. The company hired over 1,000 technology and business professionals in its Tampa centre. It has also expanded its retraining programmes and are working with local institutions to implement special curricula that will help meet growing client needs.Last year, it hired 4,000 US citizens and residents. The company had 261,200 employees as on March with a majority of its workforce based in India. 
 
