NEW DELHI: One key feature of  's extensive   was that he did not mention Muslims or minorities from the dais. He did not refer to castes either. But the go-by to the almost mantra-like invocation of his father Mulayam Singh Yadav was calculated. It was also the reason behind the decision to veto the entry of the infamous Mukhtar Ansari clan into the Samajwadi Party. 

 In the end, avoiding the M-word did not matter as a counter polarisation of Hindus, upper castes and OBCs powered BJP to an overwhelming win in the state.
 
 Jury is out if the Yadav scion's move was justified since it did not matter in stemming the Hindutva tide. The Muslim-Yadav combine, the force behind Mulayam for over two decades, seemed to be a trap this around. 
 
 The "Modi" phenomenon has planted many doubts in the traditional politics of Uttar Pradesh where "social justice" outfits have ruled the roost with their "base vote".
 
 Taking the reins of SP just ahead of assembly polls, Akhilesh apparently put in practice a few lessons he learnt from the Lok Sabha decimation of 2014. As BJP romped the state with 73 seats in a wave set in motion by Modi's Hindutva-development plank, the SP GenNext appeared to have concluded that he needed to soften the identity politics by repositioning the party as an outfit wedded to "development politics".
 
 Avoiding crass references to identity was part of that plan, put in place after his hastily effected coup against the "old guard".
 
 The Yadav warlord disagreed and continued to push for sticking to the traditional formula, a reason why he backed the merger of Quami Ekta Dal of Ansaris. His belief was that the formula on which SP was founded could not be junked in a huff and any such move, if at all, had to be gradual.
 
 Irony, that while the now-former chief minister softened the politics which has proved the catalyst for BJP's Hindutva polarisation, the target constituency was not influenced and repeated its drift to the saffron camp.
 
 As it seems now, Akhilesh was damned either way. BJP's was a shrewd combine of "Mandal and Kamandal" as, on evidence, the party appeared to have worked on a solid caste engineering besides pandering to the "shamshan-kabristan" sentiments.
 
 Crucially, Bahujan Samaj Party, desperate to counter SP's strategy to mobilise Muslims under its banner through an alliance with "secular" leader Congress, could not exercise caution. Mayawati repeated an appeal to Muslims to avoid SP and vote for it in every speech.
 
 During the campaign, many politicians and observers pointed out that her aggressive wooing of the Muslims was alienating her own "most backward" base because of the latter's alternative option in BJP. It also put minorities in the overt matrix, a factor that helps BJP in driving home its message of Hindutva. 
 
 Now, with rebuilding their parties as their prime agenda after the electoral carnage, it would be interesting how Akhilesh and Mayawati walk the tight rope of wooing minorities while ensuring it does not cement the reverse polarisation on which BJP is thriving.
 
