Ramapur ( ): "Ae Rajaji…baja baji ki na baji?"

 As high-power sound system blares out the ‘jhankar beat’ version of the Bhojpuri number high on risqué quotient, two dancers match the 50,000 watt output with their gig prowess. Scores of delirious admirers, who were all ears till10 minutes ago, have now conquered the dais and are dancing away to glory in close proximity with the two divas. It’s election time in Kunda.
 
 
 The selection of the song – “Ae Rajaji” -- and pun inherent is unintentional. Raja Bhaiyya, Raghuraj Pratap Singh of Kunda, has just finished his interaction with his ‘praja’. Using dancers as a crowd-pulling measure at political rallies is an old ploy, but here there is a difference. The ‘naach gaana’ has been scheduled post speech. Raja Bhaiyya has already left. More than a rally, it’s a social event, a community celebration.
 
 As the ‘sabha’ is slotted just off the Lucknow-Allahabad highway, makeshift shops selling desi snacks and knick-knacks have come up in no time and there are horse-owners ready with their animals offering a ride for a price. It’s a tiny village fair. In Raghuraj’s own words, ‘I don’t hold rallies to seek votes, but solicit blessings of his people’.
 
 So, though the song ends with a question, there is no doubt here what the poll results would be. Raghuraj has been winning Kunda seat as an Independent since 1993 and the margin of his victory ranges between 60,000 and 80,000. In 2012, it was over 88,000 – biggest in the state.
 
 This time, with just five other candidates in fray and both SP and Congress giving him a free run, the only question that matters is: will he shatter his own record?
 
 Babloo Singh, a district panchayat member, has no doubt. “People don’t even know the name of other candidates. No matter which government rules in the state, for us it’s Raja Bhaiyya. His appeal transcends all divides of caste and community. Over 80,000 victory margin in assembly elections is nothing but an unflinching support of the people of Kunda,” he says.
 
 As the cultural show on the dais is heading to an end, a journalist in the middle becomes the next centre of curiosity. Babloo summons others key organisers of the show – many of them pradhans from nearby villages -- and an impromptu chaupal begins. Beyond the veneer of gigs and quips, there are serious issues to be discussed.
 
 When told that outside Kunda, Raja Bhaiyya has an image of a muscleman, they all refute in unison. “Strong he is. But he uses his strength to protect his people,” says Sanjay Singh, pradhan of Bachhrauli village.
 
 Apart from Raja Bhaiyya, what are the other factors they would vote for?
 
 “Notebandi,” says Rajesh Rawat, another pradhan “it brought immense hardship to the people in villages who depend on daily earnings. In 2014, women of our families defied us to vote for Modi.Lekin Modiji ne khub ‘ch…..a’ banaya. Maa bahnon tak ko line mein lagwa diya (Modiji fooled us all. He even made women stand in queues).”
 
 “Dhai saal mein ek mandiro banwa diye hote (In two and a half years, he couldn’t even got the Ram temple constructed),” quips  . “Sadhan ke khel ke liye kanoon ban sankta hai, mandir ke liye nahin? (They can bring in legislation for a bulls’ play, but not for the temple?)
 
 The reference was to Jallikattu and Tamil Nadu government’s legislation to allow it despite SC ban. As one gets up to leave, they ask: “Can’t something similar be done to get the temple built,” refusing to go into legal intricacies.
 
 The message from this ‘village road show’ is clear: Some issues have gone beyond this state’s ‘notorious’ caste line. The ‘Ram Temple’ of course has been the leitmotif of the UP’s poll theatre for over three decades. Now, notebandi could just add a new act these elections.
 
 
