MUMBAI: After almost a dozen   of a 71-storey luxury residential project in a south Mumbai approached the   against   and alleged being cheating and made grievances of gross delay since 2010 of completion of the structure, the builder, on Wednesday, promised to furnish a time schedule within a day.

 Janak Dwarkadas, counsel for Neelkamal, which is a group company of DB Realty, informed Justice S J Kathawalla that on Thursday it will diosclose the timetable within which the tower would be completed, sale agreements executed, permissions and plans obtained and to be obtained, as well as information aon the area of the flat, floor-wise location and the wings of free-sale building in which the flats will be offered.
 
 There are two wings in the free-sale building called   at  . Of the 71-storey Wing A, three levels of parking plus three floors have been completed so far, while in Wing B, which is of 48 floors, work has moved beyond plinth level, said Dwarkadas. 
 
 While one flat buyer, Shilpa Bharatiya, had moved court last month, eight others approached the HC on Wednesday. 
 
 They said that the promised date of possession was June 2014 and their bookings dated back to 2010. They alleged that despite having paid a quarter of the flat prices, then valued at Rs 6-8 crore, the sale agreements have also not been executed despite a mandate in law to execute agreements under the Maharashtra Ownership of Flat Act when more than 20% price is paid.
 
 The court will continue to hear the matter on Thursday. Flat buyers Yatin Gupta and Kaushal Bagadias, through their counsel Chetan Kapadia, had sought appointment of a court receiver to ensure the project is completed. They also sought damages from the builder in case possession was not possible.
 
 In Bharatiya’s case, argued by counsel Birendra Saraf, Justice Kathawala had on February 16 recorded allegations that flat buyers “have been cheated by the builder”. 
 
 Saraf said, “Under an agreement dated July 27, 2010, the builder accepted more than Rs 2 crore for the Rs 7 crore flat. But, in over six years, the builder had not even commenced construction of the building, in which the flat was promised.”
 
