: I am 45-year-old man, who got married in 2003. I have two young kids. In the last 13 years of my marriage, I have always felt that my wife and I are highly incompatible.

 My wife has been following various religious gurus and though I never opposed her beliefs, I have always told her to follow the path of almighty rather than getting preached.
 
 Due to various issues between us, we have led separate lives for 8 years out of 13 years of our marriage. And, due to this very reason, my kids are being affected in every possible way. I am deeply saddened by their state. Also, I haven't had   with my wife since 2013 as she believes it is impure -based on preaching of the gurus she follows. In short, our marriage has no emotional nor any physical connect left for me to revive. Please advice me on the future course of this marriage.- By Anonymous 
 
 
 : Dealing with a disconnected marriage for such a prolonged period can be a very stressful experience and can leave you feeling saddened and confused about what lies ahead for you. You have taken a great first step by seeking counsel for a future course of this marriage. 
 From what you have shared, the foundation of your marriage has been weak from the beginning due to feelings of incompatibility. Often people are so attached to their point of views that they find themselves sitting on two parallel banks of the river – waiting for the other to cross over. This weak foundation suffered further blows of denial and neglect as both of you learnt to adapt, not to each other, but these differences/gaps instead. Both attempted to fill the void in your lives with children, work or religious activities. Living separate lives and denying it does not make the problem go away, it only postpones it and allows it to fester further. And this not only affects the spouses, but also the children as they grow up in a toxic, dysfunctional environment. Thus it is great that you are now willing to take the necessary steps to work on the situation.
 
 Every couple has incompatibilities – it would be a monumental feat to have two random people who grow up in different environments to live happily ever after with zero issues. Our differences are due to our early experiences and environments that shape us differently. This influences our tastes, preferences and choices and the way we communicate and process feelings, the way we react to life’s events, how we interact with our families etc. Despite the differences, couples are required to eventually learn to agree on some basic things for co-existence, which lays down the foundation of the marriage early on. Perhaps you have not been able to lay the foundation down nor strengthen. This foundation makes the differences in personality tolerable and not be a deal breaker. 
 
 In my practice I have seen, what seems like differences in opinion and perspective, in reality is not from a lack of compatibility but rather from a lack of commitment and communication. Start small - work on your communication with your spouse, take those feelings of incompatibility and replace them with feelings of intimacy. The more you communicate the more you’ll understand each other’s perspectives; it will blur out the right and wrong and bring harmony. Commit an hour daily, to family time together, which is shared with laughter and joy, prioritizing happiness. Humour not only takes away the heaviness but also has the power to instantly make people feel closer to each other. You can also start writing a gratitude diary and look for ways to be grateful for in your current situation. It will make you focus on the best in your spouse and seek the positives – and shift your focus from your spouse’s flaws. You will be surprised to discover a lot more that you can appreciate in your marriage. This connection will slowly bring in the physical intimacy that was lost too. Starting with simple touches and cuddles, bring in the playfulness and flirtation to your marriage. 
 
 Marriages don’t just survive because of compatibility; marriages make it because of commitment. Couples in long term marriages survive despite all the differences because they just don’t make those incompatibilities a deal breaker! I would highly recommend seeking marriage counseling before this relationship withers any further. And above all, don’t give up on each other without an honest attempt. 
 I believe that in a marriage – if any one of you wins, you both lose!
 
 - 
  
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail
 
 
