BENGALURU: Nasdaq-listed Heidrick & Struggles, a global provider of executive search, leadership consulting, and culture shaping services, has appointed Krishnan Rajagopalan as president and CEO.

 Rajagopalan is the second Indian-origin CEO to make it to the top job in the fiercely-competitive executive search industry.   had named Rajeev Vasudeva as its CEO in 2014.
 
 Rajagopalan, who has been with Heidrick & Struggles since 2001, succeeds Tracy R Wolstencroft, who has taken the role of chairman. He was previously acting CEO at the firm, and prior to that the head of global executive search practices. For a time, he also led the firm's leadership consulting practice.
 
 An alumnus of The   University, Rajagopalan has been recognized by   as one of the “100 most influential executive recruiters in the world.” He has been focussing on leading senior-level searches for clients in the management consulting, technology services, outsourcing, and venture capital businesses.
 
 Rajagopalan said it is an honour to lead Heidrick & Struggles. “Tracy has been a superb mentor and partner. I look forward to working with Tracy, the Board, the executive team, and the entire organisation to continue to develop and execute our strategies, provide our clients with unparalleled service and insights, and deliver value to our shareholders."
 
 Wolstencroft said that as Krishnan formally assumes the president and CEO position, he would continue to frame Heidrick's strategy together with the Board. “This is a wonderful opportunity for Krishnan and the firm. He is enormously talented and the firm will be well served with him at the helm," he said.
 
 In an interview with TOI last year, Rajagopalan spoke on a breadth of issues from boardroom challenges, India’s burgeoning startup story, to how Indian CEOs are embracing the tectonic shifts in the technology landscape to land their companies in a digital-first economy. Asked about India as a hotbed of entrepreneurship and how it could unlock innovation, Rajagopalan had said: “In India today, as we unshackle some of the rules and we allow entrepreneurship to thrive, we will suddenly see all that innovation and creativity coming back here as well, because the people who are solving the problems are close to the customer. It's a real shift and we will see a lot more of innovation and creativity coming out of India as opposed to only in technology.”
 
 
 
