HYDERABAD: Hyderabad, which has the dubious distinction of being the diabetes capital of India, is also 'high' on   cases. 

 In a recent study on   in Hyderabad, it was revealed that a little over 50 per cent showed elevated  . The prevalence of gestational diabetes in the city, however, is about 15 per cent. Some hospitals report a higher incidence. 
 
 As part of the research, 237 pregnant women were observed. Of them, 137 showed gestational diabetes. The remaining (100) women had normal glucose levels. Among the pregnant women diagnosed with gestational diabetes, 58.4 per cent had a family history of Type 2 diabetes. 
 
 The women with elevated blood sugar levels were in the age group of 22 to 38 years. The average age was 26.7 years.
 
 Dr Faraz Farishta, consultant endocrinologist at  , points out that there is definitely an increase in occurrence of gestational diabetes. 
 
 This is mainly due to obesity and sedentary lifestyle. "I used to see a month between 40 and 50 gestational diabetes patients referred by gynaecologists. Now, I am seeing more such patients. Their number has increased to about 90 a month," said Dr Faraz. 
 
 He said about 40 per cent of gestational diabetics can be managed with diet regulation. But about 60 per cent of patients require insulin therapy to control the sugar level. "The increase in gestational diabetes has become a new challenge for pregnant mothers," he adds.
 
 Dr Faraz warns that uncontrolled gestational diabetes could lead to maternal and foetal morbidity and mortality. 
 
 "Improved outcomes, therefore, rely on early diagnosis and tight glycaemic control," he adds. It is the most common of diabetes in pregnant women resulting in complications in almost 90 per cent of pregnancies.
 
 Gestational diabetes is a temporary phase of elevated blood sugar levels in pregnant women. 
 
 While gestational diabetes generally subsides within a few months, the problem continues to persist in a large number of women even after delivery in Hyderabad. 
 
 
