BENGALURU: Fresh trouble broke out inside  ,  , on Tuesday morning after inmates opposed the state government's move to appoint   as in-charge chief superintendent of the jail.

 Superintendent Anita was appointed on Monday in place of Krishna Kumar, who was transferred out in the wake of alleged large scale irregularities in the Bengaluru jail.
 
 According to a prison source, the inmates were unhappy as Anita was constantly accompanying AIADMK leader VK Sasikala and her fellow convict J Ilavarasi, from the first day of their imprisonment.
 
 “Former DIG (Prisons) D Roopa's letter specifically says that many   were part of the in-house racket that allowed extra luxuries for  . How can the government now entrust Anita with the prison head's job?“ the source quoted in mates. Commotion broke out in the morning, when Anita entered Gate B (entry between barracks and admission room).
 
 Inmates began shouting slogans, saying Anita should not hold new charge and wanted her to go back. The protest died down after prison officials intervened and pacified the protesters.
 
 Later in the evening, news of Anita being moved from the responsibility made the inmates happy. “TVs have been disconnected and we have not read any newspapers since last Friday. Yet, we get updated news,“ a prison source quoted inmates as saying.
 
 
 
 
 Former IAS officer Vinay Kumar, who is heading the committee formed to investigate the alleged irregularities in Central Jail, Parappana Agrahara, interacted with senior bureaucrats on Tuesday.
 
 Prison of ficials were waiting till afternoon for Kumar to turn up. But the committee did not visit the jail on Tuesday.
 
 “Earlier in the morning, our senior official Veerabhadraswamy received a call from the home department, saying the committee members may visit us any time.So we were waiting for them from morning,“ Parappana Agrahara police said.
 
 
 
 
 The National Human Rights Commission has taken cognizance of a complaint about inhuman treatment meted out to 32 prisoners at  , a few days ago. They were allegedly beaten black and blue by fellow prisoners and shifted overnight to prisons at Mysuru, Ballari, Belagavi and Davanagere.
 
 A complaint by BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje says family members of these prisoners are not allowed to meet them.
 
 The Commission issued notices to the DG&IGP, Prisons, Karnataka, to submit a detailed report on the allegations, along with the present location and state of health of the injured within four weeks, says the NHRC release. The prisoners were beaten up as they reportedly revealed details of in-house corruption to D Roopa, then DIG (Prisons). Three prisoners were seen grimacing in pain as they entered Hindalga jail in Belagavi on Sunday.
 
