MUMBAI: Two senior citizens were injured as a tree crashed on their kaali-peeli taxi in Parel on Sunday. The incident comes just a day after two people succumbed to injuries caused by tree falls in Mumbai and Thane. Sunday’s incident occurred around 11.30am at GD Ambedkar Marg, Bhoiwada. Civic officials said Manohar Kocharekar (75) and Bindyavasini Mishra (65) were taken to KEM hospital, where doctors said their injuries were not serious. Nevertheless, a look at the smashed taxi shows that they had a narrow  .

 One of those to die on Saturday was former Doordarshan anchor Kanchan Nath (58), who was grievously injured when a coconut tree fell on her in Chembur on Thursday. Her death has caused a furore among Mumbaikars, who are angry that the BMC doesn’t do a proper job of surveying trees that are susceptible to collapse, especially during the monsoon. Since the beginning of 2012, sixteen people have died while 123 people have been injured in trees crashes in Mumbai. 
 
 Nine people died this way in 2015 alone, with two deaths coming from the island city, six from the western suburbs and one from the eastern suburbs. This year, till now, three people have died. People are afraid that falling trees will claim more victims unless the BMC gets serious about this dangerous monsoon problem.
 
 Activists have slammed the civic body for not taking adequate steps to protect and strengthen trees, which go on to crash during monsoon days of strong wind and rain. Activist Rajkumar Sharma, president, Chembur Diamond Garden Residents’ Forum, said, “We have been raising the issue of dangerous trees at advanced locality management (ALM) meetings. Trees need to be checked properly periodically. Will any civic official be held responsible for the tree   that killed Kanchan Nath? There is an urgent need for civic accountability.”
 
 Abhijit Chavan, a former nominated member of the BMC’s tree authority committee, agrees with Sharma on the point of administrative accountability. “Every ward has its own junior tree officer who works at the grassroots level. He should be aware when a tree is to be trimmed or is in a dangerous condition so that such accidents can be avoided.”
 
 
