KOLKATA: After screening movies non-stop for two decades and regaling nearly 72 lakh viewers, the Space Theatre at   -one of its most popular attractions -has shut down for a major upgrade. One in every four visitors to the park watches a movie at the theatre housed in a dome whose internal wall acts as a screen.

 “Work on transforming the Space Theatre from analog 2D to 2D3D digital has commenced. The Rs 23-24 crore project is being implemented by a German company Carl Zeiss AG.The six projectors that will be installed for an immersive experience are from an American firm  . The acoustics will be provided by  ,“ said Arijit Dutta Choudhury , Science City director.
 
 The journey that began in July 1997 with the screening of `Serengeti' in 1997 halted with America Wild National Parks ` Adventure' as the theatre was in operation till February .
 
 The projector that had been imported from   worked smooth for 20 years in operation. But with content going digital, it was getting tougher to source content. “Most theatres around the world are now digital. The new content being produced is also digital. We needed to upgrade as celluloid content is limited while digital content is growing phenomenally ,“ said Choudhury .
 
 Apart from the projection system, the existing screen in the internal wall of the dome will be replaced with a seamless screen. The seat layout will also be changed to allow more legroom. Ergonomically designed push-back seats will be installed. The capacity though will remain unchanged at 360.The air-conditioning system will also be upgraded.
 
 “Till now, the theatre has worked continuously . Usually, we shut it once a quarter for maintenance and on Holi.Apart from these five days, it remained shut during odd bandhs. The overhaul was long overdue,“ said Choudhury .
 
 Shutting down such a popular attraction has also posed challenges. Visitors continue to stream to the ticket counter, only to learn that the next show will be in February 2018. The absence of the theatre has also meant added pressure on the Science Exploration Hall and Science on a Sphere.
 
 “This year, Science City has recorded a footfall of 16 lakh already , the second highest after 1998-1999 -its first year of operation when it attracted 18 lakh visitors. Over the last six-seven years, it has been hovering around 15 lakh. Once we have the new Space Theatre, we could break the two decade old record,“ the director said.
 
