QUEPEM: Former Quepem Municipal Council ( ) chairperson Manuel Colaco’s decision to withdraw as the AAP candidate to make way for a new face, John Fernandes, is likely to change the political equation in Congress MLA Chandrakant Kavlekar alias Babu’s bastion.

 Political analysts say if Colaco, a five-time councillor who polled 4,500 votes on a   (UGDP) ticket in the 2012 polls, supports Fernandes, a scheduled tribes leader, it may have a major bearing on the overall result.
 
 In a likely quadrangular fight involving Kavlekar, Fernandes, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) candidate and Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party-Goa Suraksha Manch (MGP-GSM) alliance nominee, it would be difficult to forecast the outcome. The   is likely to field former MLA Prakash Velip, while the MGP-GSM alliance is yet to finalize its Quepem candidate. In 2012, Velip had contested on an MGP ticket.
 
 Though Colaco cited health grounds, the timing of his withdrawal as AAP’s candidate has raised eyebrows.
 
 Sources said Colaco announced his decision at an emergency meeting held at AAP’s Quepem’s office on Monday night. He told TOI that he will support Fernandes. 
 
 “A candidate doesn’t matter, but party is important. I have requested all my supporters and workers to support John,” Colaco said. 
 
  Fernandes said he is ready to accept the responsibility to contest Quepem seat on an AAP ticket. “Arvind Kejriwal personally requested me to accept the party candidature, and even though time is short, I accepted it and will whole heartedly try to win the Quepem seat,” said Fernandes.
 
 Fernandes, who is an agriculturist, an anti-mining activist and founder of Adivasi Sanghattna, Quepem, could garner more votes than Colaco. Being a leader of the scheduled tribes, he can grab votes of the Christian scheduled caste community, a vote-bank Kavlekar is banking upon. 
 
  Kavlekar has been popular with voters after being elected for three terms, displacing three-time MLA Velip. During the municipal polls held in 2015, a panel backed by the Kavlekar had won nine out of 11 seats.
 
 Interestingly, no legislator in this constituency, which envelops the entire taluka, has been re-elected for a fourth term.
 
 
