BERHAMPUR: Over 4.56 lakh people in   can vote in the forthcoming three-tier  . The   in the rural areas of the district has increased by 34,906 in the last five years. While there were 4,21,421 rural voters in the last panchayat polls, the number has increased to 4,56,327 this time. 

 Elections will be held for the posts of 18 zilla parishad, 171 sarpanch and same number of samiti members and 2,322 ward members after reorganizations of panchayats in all 12 blocks. 
 
 The number of panchayats and wards have now increased to 19 and 2,366 respectively, official sources said.
 
 Before the notification for the elections on December 6, the district administration held a coordination meeting with the district officials and senior police officers, including SP (Kandhamal) at Phulbani on Tuesday.
 
 "We have asked the officials to strictly implement the model code of conduct and to prepare for filing of nomination papers," said district collector Reghu G. He said the block development officers and police would jointly survey their respective areas to identify the sensitive, hyper-sensitive and inaccessible booths. 
 
 Security would be strengthened with deployment of forces after the categorization of booths, said SP (Kandhamal) Pinak Mishra. 
 
 District panchayat officer (DPO) Chandra Sekhar Moharana said the elections for the 26 panchayats and two zilla parishads (ZP) in Kotagarh and Tumudibandh would be held in the first phase on February 13, while 28 GPs and three ZPs under Baliguda and K.Nuagaon blocks would go to polls on February 15. 
 
 Similarly, 49 GPs and five ZPs in Phulbani, Phiringia and Khajuripada will be held on February 17 and 31 GPs and 4 ZPs in Chakapada, G.Udayagiri and Tikabali will be held on February 19. Poll in 37 GPs and four ZPs in Raikia and Daringibadi blocks would be held on February 21, he said.
 
  
 
  Berhampur: Police on Wednesday staged a flag march in several villages in Hinjli block keeping in view of the three-tier panchayat elections. 
 
 "We have conducted patrolling in 14 villages belonging to five gram panchayats under Hinjili police limits," said IIC of Hinjili police station P K Sahoo. 
 
 The villages are Sikiri, Ralab, Darubhadra, Sapuapalli, Dayapalli, Kanchuru, Kanteikoli,Nimigaon, Sashan Ambagaon and Badi Ambagaon, among others. Chief minister   is represents Hinjili assembly segment.
 
 
