By- Akhil Oka 

 The   of Mumbai is an institution with a lot of potential...But, there are pressing issues which have plagued us...As a student who has studied here for a long period, it is my duty to point out the shortcomings and strive for the betterment of the institution as a whole.
 
 This is about the future of the lakhs of third-year and Masters’ students being affected by the online assessment system.. Firstly, the enormity of this exercise, which includes the tedious scanning process, training for professors, security of the system and data requirements in terms of details of professors involved clearly implies a lot of planning is necessary. If the intention was to implement this from the April semester itself, why was the process of tenders not commenced before April?
 
 It is a fact that professors were supposed to be on vacation in May. Why was proper   not communicated to them in the first place? There have been media reports about total confusion in this process...The entire narrative has conveniently been changed from timely declaration of results to ‘priority’ given to students of certain streams over others.
 
 Another aspect has been direction to the faculty to submit model answer keys of all subjects, including humanities...It is plain logic there cannot be standard answers when it comes to Political Science, History, Sociology, Literature etc... The most important thing to note is, we were not even aware of being judged by an answer key when we gave our exams in April nor has there been any official communiqué from the University in this regard. How is it justifiable to implement this retrospectively? 
 
 The fact that the evaluation of papers has not even begun or has barely started in some cases is a matter of great distress for students. There is no idea about the date of declaration of results. This brings us to the larger question about the University. In one of your communications, you had once espoused- “Education should be imparted with a view to the type of society that we wish to build. We are working for a modern democracy built on the values of human dignity and equality. These are only ideals: we should make them living forces. Our vision of the future includes these great principles.” In my humble opinion, we need to seriously introspect on this.
 
 Why is it that students are not considered worthy enough to be stakeholders in the system? How can things be simply imposed upon them without seeking their opinion or suggestion of any sort? For the last two years, some of us have had to run from pillar to post for basic necessities like the need for a robust grievance redressal mechanism and regular student feedback. The critical challenge for any institution to is develop a very strong sense of transparency and accountability. One can understand that the specific bodies can approve an initiative. But, why isn’t there an attempt to give the students an honest appraisal of the initiative? And, when things don’t work according to the plan and risk the lives of so many students, who will be held accountable for it?
 
 (Akhil Oka is a second-year post-graduate student of Politics in  )
 
