KOCHI:   after two elephants ran amok during a   at a   near Chalikkavattom on Sunday. The incident happened at the temple during the Seeveli ritual when the elephant   turned violent. 

 Vijayakrishnan was part of a procession with two other elephants. Though mahouts lost control of another elephant at the time, it was chained before it could inflict damages. After almost a three-hour rampage, the elephant was brought under control by 2pm by the  .
 
 "The mahout Rajan Chalisery (35) was making the animal walk forward when it turned violent. The elephant grabbed him with its trunk and threw him on the ground. He was almost caught between the tusks but he managed to crawl out and jump a boundary wall," said Ranjith, who witnessed the event. The tusker continued to wreak havoc as it tore down a portion of the boundary wall and damaged a bike.
 
 The mahout also suffered injuries as the elephant hit him with its tusk. The mahout was rushed to a hospital immediately. The elephant went on a rampage around the temple and a child was injured in the stampede that followed, said fire force officials. 
 
 According to sources close to temple authorities, the elephant had body pains due to frequent parades during festivals. The incident happened around 11am at the temple when the procession was taking place. 
 
 Seeing the violent Vijayakrishnan, another elephant, which managed to unshackle itself, ran towards an adjacent plot. However, the elephant was tied up using ropes brought by the fire force who rushed to the spot. The mahout was atop the tusker and the fire force personnel had to help him dismount.
 
 However, Vijayakrishnan took time to calm down even as the elephant squad reached the spot and fired a tranquillizer dart. The elephant underwent frequent torture as the mahout tried to chain the animal again. Later, the mahouts were seen hitting the animal profusely with an iron rod and the elephant sustained wounds on its face. The bleeding animal was later transported from the spot in a truck.
 
 The animal belongs to Rajesh, a Thrissur native. The parading of the animals under the hot sun is one of the reasons for such repeated mishaps. Another elephant had run amok at Tripunithura on Friday.
 
