Out of sight is out of mind, but that doesn’t quite apply to this Dilli ki kudi. A few years ago, she debuted with a desi gang war movie, loaded with terrific performances. She was noticed and instantly handpicked for a host of films before she decided to take a few steps back and weigh her options. This week, she has returned to the cinemas with 'Jolly LLB 2' as Akshay Kumar’s wife. BT met   to know the reason behind her absence, a recent spate of unsavoury headlines and what lies ahead. Excerpts... 

 
 I was chilling out, reading, travelling and shooting for a whole lot of films, which will release one by one this year. I shot for 'Viceroy’s House, 'Jolly LLB 2' and also a film down South, which hit the screens last year. I felt I needed to look back at life and work. I feel blessed to be where I am. I had a great debut with 'Gangs of Wasseypur' and even before it released in India, I had signed a lot of films. So, there was no thought behind what should be my second film. I was like a kid in a candy store at that point. But after 'Badlapur', it became important for me to take a step back and pick work more diligently. 
 
 
 I played a sex worker in 'Badlapur' and I am very proud of that film and my performance in it, but after that, I got only similar offers. Many people wanted to slot me, which I am not okay with. If it meant waiting in the wings for 'Jolly LLB 2' to come my way, I happily did it. I’m not in a rush to sign 10 films. So far, I haven’t had the luxury of planning my career, but wise people have said that chaos always brings out something good. So, I’m enjoying this phase where I don’t know what’s coming next. 
 
 
 After he made 'Jolly LLB', director Subhash Kapoor and I were supposed to work on another movie, but it didn’t happen. At that point, I had been reading about 'Jolly LLB 2'. One day, he called me for a narration and I loved the script. Guess what, that film was 'Jolly LLB 2'! The film revolves around Akshay and a court case, but Subhash has done complete justice to my character, Pushpa. She’s a lioness, not a pushover or someone standing on the sidelines. In fact, she’s the man in Jolly’s life. It would have been stupid to let a film like this go. 
 
 
 It’s not easy, but thankfully, I enjoyed the liberty to say no to something I wasn’t convinced about. I have a family; I share my home in Mumbai with my brother   (Salim). My parents are my cornerstones, even if they don’t know the business I am into. And because I’m in such a secure zone, no one can put a gun to my head and force me to do anything wrong for the sake of money. I can decide to let some things go because I’m not in dire straits.
 
 
 I’m not competing with anyone, so I can say no. See, I have to be happy about the roles I do. I will not do a film just because someone else is doing a film in the same space and doing well. I’m so secure that I can genuinely be happy, proud and inspired by another colleague, who is doing well. I am a Dilliwali whose father runs a restaurant business and mum is a homemaker. It was my ambition to be an actress. And all that I have achieved today is on my own terms and merit. 
 
 
 I have auditioned for every film I did till 'Dedh Ishqiya'. Thankfully, I didn’t have to audition for 'Jolly LLB 2'. I got this far because I was good. People find it cool to say that they don’t audition, but I think it’s way cooler to say that you earned a role and didn’t get it because of another reason. I’m a single girl; I manage my expenses, staff and work on my own. And it’s not easy. But this life gives me a sense of pride. My parents take pride in it, too. Why throw it away looking at others? If others have godfathers, I have god himself watching over me. 
 
 At times, I seek advice from Anurag Kashyap. But ultimately, I make own decisions. Maybe, if I had someone to back me, things would have been different, but why think of that now? I am a 1990s kid. I grew up on that cinema. So, when I need career advice, I still turn to cinema. I watch movies and decide which kind of films I’d want to do next. The grammar of the movies has changed, but I work my way around it. I hate being put in a box. You go there when you are dead. I am alive and kicking. 
 
 
 I signed 'Viceroy’s House' soon after 'Badlapur', but it took long in the making. It touches upon a glorious period in our history. It’s an international film and will do me some good when it comes out. So, trust me, patience always pays dividends. 
 
 
 B R O T H E R! That’s my equation with Sohail today. I made my stand clear on my social media account right when the rumours surfaced, but I’m amazed that it went unnoticed. My family knows the truth and I owe no explanation to anyone else. There’s no bad blood between Sohail and me. When a woman says no, she actually means no. If I say there is NOTHING between him and me, trust me, there isn’t! 
 
 
 
 
