MALASAR (Churu): Fifty-year-old  , a  , has been looking for his son after the latter failed to return after telling the family that he was going to Sanvarad to participate in a condolence meeting for slain gangster  .

 However, on Monday afternoon, he and his family members got a   when they were told that the dead body at  , which was earlier said to be that of Lal Chand Sharma, a native of Haryana, could actually be that of his son. The family rushed to the hospital and identified the body as that of their missing son Surendra Singh.
 
 The mistaken identity issue began at the government hospital in Nagaur itself when the police sent the injured Singh to SMS Hospital along with other injured cops following the violence at Sanvarad on July 12. It was negligence on the part of the police and also the hospital administration of Nagaur where Singh was first sent after sustaining a bullet injury.
 
 “While our men were sending seriously injured policemen to Jaipur in an ambulance, the doctors asked us to take the person identified by them as Lal Chand Sharma, a native of Haryana, to the hospital since he had sustained bullet injuries. The identity of the person was given by doctors who confirmed that Singh had himself given his name as Lal Chand Sharma,” said N R K Reddy, additional director general (law and order) while speaking to TOI.
 
 Since the injured Singh succumbed to his injuries after reaching SMS Hospital, a police team was sent to Rohtak in Haryana to find out about the family of the deceased. “A few days ago, the Haryana police made it clear that they had no missing person who was identical to the dead body. We sent pictures of the deceased to all district SPs, asked them to circulate it in various police stations, and get it published in local editions of vernacular papers,” Reddy added.
 
 On Monday, Singh’s family saw the picture and thought that it could be that of their son and contacted the local police. “We sent a police team along with them,” said Rahul Bharat, superintendent of police, Churu.
 
 When contacted, Trilok, a cousin of the deceased, said, “Yes, he is my brother Surendra Singh (33). He had called up a few villagers on the evening before the condolence meeting of Anandpal Singh was organized at Sanvarad. Because of the crowd, he could neither meet his villagers at Sanvarad nor could he come back to Kota where he was working as a labourer. That’s when we contacted the police to tell our brother was missing.”
 
 “On Monday, after seeing the picture in some news reports, we contacted the police who sent us to Jaipur,” Triok said.
 
 But, how did Surendra Singh’s name become Lal Chand Sharma, a native of Haryana? “On that day, he must have thought that he might be booked due to the violence at Sanvarad. So, he may have given this identity to evade arrest. Likewise, we did not find any wallet or any ID on the deceased. We believed what the doctors told us,” Reddy said.
 
 Meanwhile, police have ordered an inquiry into the death of Singh. The deceased is survived by his wife and son.
 
 
