CHENNAI: Conditions in a Tamil Nadu government tender worth at least Rs 130 crore a year were modified to benefit one company, an anti-corruption movement said on Monday in a complaint to the  .

 The company is Padmavathi Hospitality and Facility Management Services and one of its directors Bhaskar Naidu is a partner in  , run by former TN Chief secretary Rama Mohan Rao’s son  , the complaint said.
 
 The tender pertains to a requirement given by the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) to Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) for outsourcing housekeeping and security services in 37 government hospitals and 20 medical colleges. After it was floated on January 8, 2016, the last date for submission of bids was revised at least twice.
 
 Documents released by anti-corruption group Arappor Iyakkam show a change to the eligibility criteria for securing the tender was made a day before Februay 4, the last date for submitting bids.
 
 Earlier, only those registered under the Companies Act, 1956, public and private listed firms, were eligible; but the corrigendum changed the type of firm to add proprietary concern and partnership firms. Of the six bidders short-listed, Padmavathi Hospitality was the only partnership firm. It won the contract and signed an agreement in April. One of the witnesses who signed the document is the brother of   (to be verified), Arapor said in the complaint.
 
 TN Tender Transparency Rules 2000 say a month’s notice should be given for tenders valued at more than Rs 2 crore; but in this case the deadline was extended only by 11 days.
 
 “This was done to favour the company linked to Rama Mohan Rao. We have called for a thorough probe,” said Arappor Iyakkam convenor Jayaram Venkatesan.
 
 TNMSC managing director Apoorva said the changes might have been made to ensure more firms participated. “We are allowed to add corrigendums 48 hours before the deadline. All government norms have been followed. There is no hanky-panky,” she said.
 
 However, the corrigendum also changed other conditions; for example, the ceiling limit for annual turnover of applying companies was increased from Rs 10 crore to Rs 20 crore a year and experience in handling floor area from 1 lakh sq ft to 10 lakh sq ft, Venkatesan said. “These conditions will only narrow the competition and not increase.”
 
 TNMSC chairman and health secretary J Radhakrishnan said an inquiry would be ordered if there were any irregularities, but declined to comment on specifics without perusing the documents.
 
 
