While Udta Punjab heartthrob   and rapper Badshah are two of the more prominent names from the Punjabi film and culture industry,   remains the Original Punjabi Boy in   (after Dharmendra, of course). Despite achieving fame in Hindi cinema as both a leading man and character actor, Jimmy has never broken away from his roots. As a star, he remains a major force in the cinematic fields of Punjab and ' ', his latest Punjabi release, is a proof of that. A love triangle, 'Jindua', according to producer Vivek Ohri, means a “term of endearment for your loved one.” Though set against a romantic backdrop, the film tackles hot button issues like immigration, which the whole of America and Canada is grappling with today. In the film, Jimmy plays a character who travels to Canada in search of work and lives as an illegal resident. Ohri emphasizes that the story will find resonance among today’s audiences because of the “topical and emotionally relevant plot.” 
Ohri who runs an automobile showroom in Jalandhar, a major city of Punjab, was always a movie buff. “I’d come to Mumbai,” Ohri recalls his days as a distributor, “to buy low-budget movies and when I used to suffer a loss, I’d stay underground for one or two years and it kept fluctuating. Sometimes I’d make profit from a movie. Otherwise, I’d suffer losses in the next four or five movies.” With 2009’s 'Mel Kara De Rabba' starring Jimmy Shergill and Gippy Grewal, he finally hit it big. At a time when Punjabi movie industry was churning out films irregularly and with a budget of no more than Rs 50 lakh, Ohri bet Rs 2.25 crore on MKDR which made Grewal a star. 
 Ohri’s luck as a star spotter continued unabated when he launched Diljit Dosanjh in 'Jinhe Mera Dil Luteya'. The producer has also introduced singer Hans Raj Hans’ son Yuvraj Hans and Raj Babbar’s son Arya to the Punjabi industry. When asked about the modus operandi of regional cinema and its future, Ohri, who has made seven Punjabi hits in the last eight years, almost averaging one a year, says, “Punjabi audiences love light movies with doses of comedy and drama. Very few action films are made because they don’t do well in our market. Punjabis love rooted subjects, something which connects them with their local surrounding.” Referring to Marathi cinema, he says, perhaps hitting at recent blockbusters like Sairat, “Maharashtra prefers serious dramas. We do less of that stuff here in Punjab.” 
 Jimmy Shergill,   and   starrer 'Jindua' will release in 200 screens across several Indian states, including Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and UP among others on March 17. 
 
 
