BENGALURU: A 15-year-old boy was stabbed to death outside his school campus in Yelahanka, North Bengaluru, on Monday afternoon. A traffic policeman found N   lying on the ground with a chest injury near the railway bridge, about 200 metres from Yelahanka police station, around 3pm.

 The boy was rushed to a   where he succumbed to injuries. Police suspect the boy was killed as he was friendly with a girl studying in a neighbouring college. They said they are questioning Harsha's classmates and some boys from a few schools in the vicinity.
 
 Police sources said Harsha had been warned by some boys against being friends with the girl. They said there was a skirmish earlier in the day about the matter.
 
 A class X student of Government High School, Yelahanka, Harsha is survived by father  , a milk vendor, mother Annapurna and a sister doing II PU.
 
 Police quoting witnesses said 10-12 boys were seen fighting with each other on a road behind the railway track around 2.30pm. The railway track is just behind the government school. According to locals, schoolboys fighting each other in the area and near the railway track is not uncommon.
 
 “The fight suddenly came to a halt and we saw one boy lying on the road clutching his chest. As other boys ran away, a passerby shouted the boy has been stabbed,“ Pankajamma, who resides on the road where the scuffle broke out, told TOI.
 
 “Someone alerted a traffic policeman manning vehicles near the junction. With others' help, the cop shifted the injured boy to Government Hospital on the next road,“ a resident said.
 
 Harsha Raj died within 20 minutes, government hospital staff told TOI.
 
 He was stabbed in the left side of the chest. Police said a knife or a similar sharp object had been used. Later, the body was shifted to Ambedkar hospital for autopsy.
 
 “Preliminary investigations revealed a few boys from two more schools, including a government school, had come near the high school where School Day was under way. Harsha Raj, who had received the best player prize, walked out to meet his friends. That was when the scuffle broke out,“ an investigating officer said.
 
 A 16-year-old boy is suspected have been injured in the left ear during the clash. The boy went to a hospital and got treated, police said, adding they have traced the boy and will question him soon. Vivekananda, vice-principal, Government High School, Yelahanka, told TOI they will extend all cooperation to police.“Today, we had a School Day and the incident took place outside the school premises. We came to know about the incident when police called us. We do not know why Harsha Raj went out,“ he said.
 
 Labhuram, DCP in charge of northeast division, said, “It is surprising to see minors fighting each other with weapons.“
 
