CHANDIGARH: The Haryana lokayukta has directed the commissioner of police (CP) and the   (ALA) of Gurugram to probe into the procedural lapses in the issuance of an arms licence to actor   in 1996, when she was “underage”. The lokayuta gave these directions on the recommendation of the registrar of the Haryana lokayukta office.

 Soha, daughter of former Indian Test cricket captain Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi, was issued an arm licence on November 6, 1996. It is alleged that she was a minor and the weapon registered in her name was found to used in the killing of female black buck in a case registered at Jhajjar police station. “It is proved that Soha Ali Khan @Soha Sultan obtained the arms licence by conceiving the material fact of her age from the competent authority. She cheated the licensing authority and dishonestly induced the licencing authority to deliver her an arm licence. Thus, prima facie she committed an offence punishable under section 420, IPC,” the report by registrar read.
 
 He further noted, “The SDM who issued the licence in the first instance made a proper inquiry regarding her age or as to whether he had sufficient proof regarding the age of Soha Ali Khan is required to be investigated. Thereafter from time to time the said licence has been renewed and it should also be investigated as to whether at the time of renewal proper procedure was followed or not. So, the matter required further investigation by SIT, SVB Haryana or SP lokayukta.”
 
 Lokayukta Justice N K Aggarwal (retired) has fixed July 24 as the next date of hearing while directing CP and ALA to submit the report in the matter. The order is consequent to the recommendation by registrar Manjit Singh on the complaint by  , an animal activist and commissioner of Haryana scouts and guides.
 
 In March last year, Kadian had petitioned to the lokayukta, seeking his intervention for action against officials involved in issuance of the arms licence to Soha in 1996, alleging that she was a minor at that time. The lokayukta had referred the matter to registrar for preliminary investigations. In his report submitted to lokayukta on March 10 this year, the registrar had pointed to lapses in the matter.
 
