BHOPAL: Hockey at school level is struggling to attract youth in state. The scene is hardly different in the mecca of hockey in Bhopal. This is what was witnessed during the selection trials for the Indian hockey team conducted recently in Bhopal. 

 Sample this: Three players from Bhopal made it to Indian hockey team and they are from Bhopal, as school education department did not get players from other cities. 
 
 The team was selected for the Asian school hockey championship which is scheduled to be organised from April 2 in Bhopal. Among selected players from the state one is from MP hockey academy and other is a non-regular student of Class 10. Handful of teams was sent by the schools for the selection trials. 
 
 For getting into the national team, players have to perform well at the divisional and state level. Such was the situation that proper 11-member teams were not available at the divisional and state level. A senior coach told TOI that presence of hockey at the school level could be gauged from the fact that India did not participate in the   last year. 
 
 “You can see cricketers, athletes and even soccer players at the school level but not the players holding stick in their hands. Hockey at the school level is almost finished which is a matter of concern,” said the coach wishing anonymity. He claimed around 90% schools do not have a hockey team on their campuses.
 
 Citing an example of last selection trials for Bhopal divisional cricket team, an official said there were around 500 players who went to take part. “How many schools in Bhopal have a hockey team? You can count on finger tips. This is the situation which needs an immediate address,” said former Olympian Sameer Dad. 
 
 For last several years Sameer has been training the school level players at  . “There is no dearth of talent. The need is to support them. Sports department is doing a good job through its academies but there is need to promote hockey in schools which is almost missing,” said Dad. 
 
 
