GURUGRAM: Even three months after the Haryana registrar general ordered the developer to conduct a fair and independent election of a resident welfare association ( ) in DLF Park Place, which is located off the  , residents are forced to visit several government offices and officials to press for their five-year-old demand for the  .

 As many as 1,500 families got the possession of their flats in the condominium in 2012, but the developer has not conducted the RWA election yet. At present, the upscale condominium has an RWA, which residents allege, is a developer-run body which does not work for their welfare.
 
 In May this year, the registrar general had passed an order, asking the developer to conduct the RWA elections within four months. However, the poll process has not started yet, according to residents.
 
 “More than half the time has lapsed. The poll process takes at least two and a half months, and it is unlikely that it will be completed within the stipulated time,” said Virender Kapoor, one of the residents of the society.
 
 Harsh Chadda, another resident of the society, claim that in the history of this city, there has not been a single case, where even after five years of possession of flats, not a single RWA poll has been conducted.
 
 Residents further said the existing RWA failed to deliver on basic services like safety, security and maintenance of the society. There are multiple security issues such as unauthorised access, no CCTV cameras in stilt areas and entry of unauthorized vehicles, according to them.
 
 “Also, there are issues such as lack of clarity in common area charges, handling of GST and inflated housekeeping and building maintenance bills. A club in the society is not open for residents of the society,” said Lalit Sahni, another resident.
 
 There are three different court cases going on in the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the Supreme Court against the developer on residents’ complaints. 
 
 In 2016, residents had filed an FIR against the developer in Sushant Lok police station for illegally occupying the club. Residents also accused DLF of grabbing their 11-acre land for its project called The Crest. The high court had ruled in favour of the residents, asking the developer to give the land back to them.
 
 VK Gupta, president of Park Place Condominium Association, when asked about the delay in polls, said, “You should reach out to a DLF representative.” The developer, on the other hand, has declined to comment on the matter, saying “it’s an RWA affair and the developer has no involvement in it”.
 
 
