KOLKATA: "Kuch din toh theheriye Gujarat mein!" So many of us have heard these lines, like a refrain, over and over in  's voice as he showcased the vibrancy of Gujarat as part of the state’s tourism advertisement. The good news is that Kolkatans can now savour the goodness of Gujarati culture sitting in their home city. 

 A treat awaits those visiting the Durga Puja pandal by Dum Dum Park   this week. The pandal of the Mother Goddess is adorned this year by traditional Gujarati craftsman showcasing an ancient art called Mata Ni Pachhedi. And not just this, there’s more. Famous Gujarati folk artist Mooralala Marwada will perform with his troop on all four days at the pandal. The art form of   involves the use of natural colours to depict mythological stories about the Mother Goddess using traditional motifs - and these have been used all over the pandal. Ahmedabad-based artist   and his team are busy at it, embellishing the pandal. “In this art form, we depict mythological stories and folklore about the Mother Goddess and we are using those for this pandal.” Nonetheless, the artist will not be able to savour the sights and sounds of Kolkata’s Durga Puja this time around – because his presence is awaited by an industrialist of national fame who has commissioned his work this time. 
 
 Yet, Chitara seems happy to be able to showcase an art form that has been kept alive only by his 12-odd family members across the country. Pieces of white cloth are first soaked in water, then dyed with powder, on which bamboo pens are used to draw pictures, he explains. Only 62 stories of the Mother Goddess are thus depicted. All these 62 pictures have been used at the Tarun Sangha pandel in Kolkata. Besides, a hand-painted Chandravo adorns the headpiece of the idol here. Conceptualisation, planning and supervision of the project is in the hands of Calcutta-based artist  , who says he he had always wanted to share this rare art form with Kolkatans. Six types of bamboos – Java, Makla, Tarla, Naal and Mooli – have been used for the pandal other than the common varieties. Laterite stones from Odisha have been used to build the idol platform and the flooring and the idol has been designed Oriya style, too. 
 
  Folk artist Mooralala Marwada of Coke Studio fame has made his way to Kolkata all the way from Kutch and will liven up all the four festive days with his soulful tunes. He’s also simultaneously recording the theme song for the Puja, and says attending Pujas in Kolkata is really a unique experience. 
 
