 is all set for his maiden home production " ", which also stars him, but the actor says he does not want to always feature in his own films. 
"Poorna" is based on a true story of Malavath Poorna, a tribal girl from Telangana who created history on May 25, 2014, by becoming the youngest girl in the world to scale the Mount Everest.
 She was just 13-year-old when she pitched the Indian flag at 6 AM. 
 
 Rahul, who has produced, directed and also features in the film, says he was initially only approached to play the role of Poorna's mentor. 
 
 "I was first asked to play Praveen Kumar. That's how I got the script. After that, I asked them who is spending money for this film and then I decided I would make it my first production... But truthfully, I don't want to be that kind of producer who only makes film which stars himself. 
 
 "I think that's embarrassing. As it is when you say, 'this is produced, directed and acted by me,' people joke,'Have you done the costume as well ?' It is embarrassing. I feel bad about it," he told reporters on the trailer launch of "Poorna" 
 
 The film marks Rahul's return to direction after the 2001 "Everybody Says I am Fine!" and the actor says it was difficult to juggle between performing and directing on sets. 
 
 "As a director I thought would I be correct for the role. Had I not felt that, I would have recast for the character. I wish I had! It was such a pain to act then take off the makeup and go back to directing then repeat." 
 
 Though it has been more than a decade since his directorial, Rahul says rather than direction it was the technical aspect of the film for which he was more worried about. 
 
 "It wasn't that direction is new for me but the world of digital space is totally new for me. It was good but I was scared too. There's a lot of VFX in the film. 
 
 "My friend Vipul Shah said 'I knew before watching the film that it'll be well acted, passionate and emotional. I was expecting that. What I didn't expect was it would be technically so brilliantly made.' 
 
 "The film starts off like Malgudi Days and ends like the Hollywood film Everest. To do that, especially the second half, that fear was there definitely. But it happened," Rahul added. 
 
 The film is scheduled to release on March 31.
 
