In the last few weeks, a number of big ticket movies have been released. And as a result, theatres in Delhi are busy not only scheduling and rescheduling screens, but also breaking up fights that tend to start when the   is played before the shows. In November, the   made it mandatory to play the   and for all present to stand up for it, and ever since, there have been reports of police cases, fist fights and arguments from cinema halls across the country. Things got even more confusing after ' ' released and the film had a scene in which the national anthem is played. Even more reports of assaults and fights poured in. In a clarification to its earlier order, the SC said on Tuesday that "when the National Anthem is sung or played in the storyline of a feature film or as part of the newsreel or documentary... the audience need not stand."

  Even though Delhi has not registered violence seen in many other cities (a man was recently punched in Mumbai for not standing up during the national anthem), theatre owners and ushers tell us the city has had its share of incidents. They add that arguments and threats have become quite common in theatres now, and most people prefer walking in late.
 
  
 A staff member at a single-screen in Chandni Chowk tells us, "It’s true that people are being bullied into standing up for the anthem. And this is happening not only in single-screen theatres, but also in multiplexes. During one of our shows, a man was about to be slapped by another audience member for not standing up. He told me that he didn’t know it was mandatory to stand. After that incident, I informed my manager that we have to be extra cautious. These are our busiest days since playing the national anthem was made mandatory, and we don’t want to take any risk."
 
  A theatre owner in old Delhi says, "We play the 'please stand up' message before the national anthem, but even then many people don’t stand up. This makes some audience members angry and they start arguments. This has become so common that we have stopped paying attention now. Jab baat badhegi tab dekha jayega. Kitni baar office chhod kar main ladai rokun?"
 
  A staff member at a leading multiplex tells us, "People don’t just abuse each other, they abuse us as well! Some senior citizens start shouting at us ki 'aap ne inhe allow kaise kiya baithe rehne ko, yeh aap ki zimmedaari hai.’ All we can do is tell them to calm down and enjoy the movie. Once, a senior citizen got so angry at an audience member who refused to stand up, that he called me and said, 'Police ko bulao'. I was speechless. Par lagta hai ki ek din toh police bulani hi padegi."
 
  
  Some cinegoers have said how the stares start before the national anthem even begins, if it looks like they will not be able to stand immediately
 
 
 
 Nikhil Saran, a college student, tells us, "Last month, I went for a movie in CP with my friend. I had a knee injury so I didn’t stand up for the national anthem and thought I would raise my hand to show respect. However, the person on the next seat got offended and looked like he would slap me. When I told him about my injury, he took my food tray and offered to support me while I stood. He said, 'You don’t have an option boss. You will have to stand'. I did and after the interval, I went in the front row as it was impossible for me to sit next to him."
 
  Moviegoers tell us that people have a problem even if someone stands a few seconds after the anthem starts. Raunak Arora, an MBA student, says, "I went for a movie last month and took some time to stand up when the national anthem started. Another person in the audience started asking me, 'Are you not going to stand? Why are you eating right now?' I always stand up for the national anthem, but that’s my choice. I don’t want to be reminded or bullied."
 
   , a Noida resident, tells us, "I recently went to watch Moana with my kid. A woman in the audience kept staring at us because my child took some time to stand for the anthem since he was trying to keep the food tray on the side."
 
  
 In order to avoid glares and bullying, the moviegoers have started reaching late for the shows. An usher at Wave Cinemas, Delhi, tells us, "Ever since we started playing the national anthem, people have started coming late for the film or they wait in the lobby till the movie starts. Although no incident has been reported from our hall, there is always this sense of fear, not just among the staff, but the audience as well. We have been told to be extra vigilant, since most shows are running housefull so there are higher chances of fights starting."
 
  Sameer Kumar, a consultant who works in  , tells us, "I have started using the national anthem slot for parking. I reach 10 minutes late for every movie, so I’ve never faced any such issue." 
 
  Malini Sanwaria, a lecturer, says, "In the last two months, I have seen at least seven films, but have not entered the theatre during the anthem even once. I prefer to buy snacks at the beginning of the film now."
 
  An usher at a PVR theatre in Noida, tells us, "Till a few months ago, people used to come for the movie on time and wait in the hall while the ads were played. But now, they ask, 'Kitna time hai movie shuru hone mein? Ghoom kar aate hain'."
 
  
 
 
