HYDERABAD: The legal tussle between Telangana state waqf board and Anwar-ul-Uloom   intensified on Saturday after the latter sent a contempt notice to the   of the Muslim endowments panel.

 Both parties have been engaged in a battle for the institution since 2001. While the board says that it is waqf, the college management maintains that it is not.
 
 The board had recently resolved to directly manage the institutions and had sent a team to facilitate a change of hands. But on July 11, the High Court, in an interim order, suspended the resolution.
 
 Anwar-ul-Uloom Educational Association secretary Mahboob Alam Khan on Saturday told TOI that the board has failed to produce a valid waqfnama, a document that declares an institution is an endowment. “The waqfnama, survey report and the gazette are in dispute. The waqfnama the board has submitted is a draft waqfnama. It is not on letterhead and then name of the signatory is not shown,“ he said. The secretary claimed that the board had informed them that it could not locate the original document.
 
 Khan said that purely `for arguments' sake' the draft waqfnama states that the board cannot step in unless the institutions of the association cease to exist even as he questioned the board's claim to the institution. “Why go after   time and again,“ he questioned.
 
 The board confirmed that CEO MA Mannan Farooqui has received the contempt notice. “It has been given to the legal cell for examination,“ Farooqui said even as he asserted that he would not be cowed down by such notices. “It is my duty to protect waqf institutions,“ he said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, board chairman Mohammed Saleem continued to maintain that the institution is waqf.He said that the endowments body will engage top lawyers to fight the case.
 
 “We want the institution to pay waqf fund, irrespective of its income. We will not disturb the functioning of the college. Our records (that the institution is waqf) are perfect,“ Saleem said. However, he declined to provide copies of the documents.
 
 With the board going tooth and nail to stake claim to the institution, it stares into the face of a staff crunch to administer institutions which are in its `direct management'. A board official requesting anonymity said, “The board has a lot of institutions in its direct management. We need more people if we are going to control of more institutions.“
 
