PATNA: Defying all odds, including   of old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes in the country, Bihar farmers have achieved near miracle, as the overall area coverage under   crops in the state this year has been marginally less than the area target fixed by the   department – 93% in case of wheat and 101% in case of winter maize!

 As per a report on sowing and consequent area coverage of rabi crops sent by the state government to the Centre, the combined average area coverage of wheat, winter maize and barley is 86% of the target area fixed. Of the three, the area coverage of wheat and winter maize has crossed all expectations.
 
 Wheat coverage in the state has been 93% of the target area, winter maize 101% and barley 65%, as per a report sent by the state government to the Union agriculture and farmer welfare ministry on January 5. The interesting aspect is that the farmers are adopting such crops which are yielding more monetary returns in the market, said agriculture department officials. 
 
 Interestingly,   season starts from November 15 and lasts till December 15. The note ban imposed on November 8 started showing its immediate impact from the very next day. “We collect reports from the fields daily. Farmers continued to sow seeds of rabi crops till recently, because the land was still wet in some districts due to floods last year,” said an agriculture department official. 
 
 The drive to reap good harvests and matching monetary returns on sale also influenced the sowing of pulses. As an indicator, the overall area coverage of all the varieties of pulses during this rabi season has been 88% of the target.
 
 However, in the pulses category, the coverage of the ‘chana’ (gram) variety is 1.03 lakh hectares against the target of 1.15 lakh hectares. Incidentally, the area coverage by gram this season has been 359 hectares more than the last year. The increase is small, but experts feel that the drive for gram cultivation has picked up, because the market rate of its purchase and sale has increased, which has also jacked up the prices of its derivatives , like pulse proper and ‘sattu’ (grinded gram). 
 
 In tune with the same, the coverage of the ‘masur’ variety of pulse is 2.10 lakh hectares against the target area of 2.20 lakh hectares – a fall of 2,286 hectares from the last year. The area coverage of peas is 31,853 hectares against the target of 35,000 hectares – a fall by 686 hectares. On the other hand, the coverage of other varieties of pulse like ‘arhar’ is 1.10 lakh hectares against the target of 1.45 lakh hectares.
 
 Among oilseeds, the total area coverage has been 90% of the target area – or 1.63 lakh hectares against the target of 1.82 lakh hectares. Incidentally, sowing of oilseeds last year was 1.61 lakh hectares.
 
 
