MUMBAI: A long, dry spell in July in many parts of   has raised concerns about kharif crop spread over more than 20 lakh hectares.

 Scanty or intermittent showers are expected to have an impact on cultivation of rice, sugarcane, pulses and millets, which are staples for farmers during the southwest   season. There are fears that if rains are insufficient, 25-30% of the total area under cultivation may have to be resown, said an official from the agriculture department. 
 
 Officials say Gondia, Amravati, Bhandara, Buldhana, Akola, Washim, Beed are some of the worst-affected districts, which have received barely 50-75% of the average rainfall.
 
 Sowing has been completed on nearly 65% of the 139.64 lakh hectares of cultivable area in the state — which adds up to 82 lakh hectares. 
 
 “There has been an issue with sowing due to the long, dry spell and crops like soyabean, moong, tur, rice and sugarcane will be hit. Cotton which is grown on a large scale in the state will not see a lot of problems as it sustains on the moisture of the soil, but if the dry spell continues then cotton too will be affected,” said a senior official.
 
 Resowing, if required, will increase the grower’s input costs on seeds and labour and have a bearing on financial planning for the season ahead. 
 
 Principal Secretary,   said field officials are undertaking surveys to ascertain the damage. Relief measures will be undertaken based on their findings. “We have ample supply of seeds ready. Whenever there is a requirement for resowing, the cost of the seeds are borne by the government. The same policy will be applicable in this case too,” said Kumar who will himself undertake a statewide tour starting on Thursday. 
 
 Officials said the state government has sent out advisories to farmers asking them to start sowing only next week and wait for clarity from the Indian Meterological Department. 
 
 The agri department is also trying to convince farmers to sign up for the state’s crop insurance scheme. “After a good monsoon last year and with prediction of surplus rainfall this year, the tendency to pay premium for the insurance scheme is not there. And if rains fail this year and if they have not signed up for the insurance then they will not get anything,” said another official.
 
