JAIPUR: Former union minister   completed three years as president of the   (RPCC) on Saturday. He spoke to the TOI on whether he has been able to consolidate the party state unit over these years and if the   has been an effective opposition here. Excerpts:

 
 
 The morale after we lost was low, so I started with reaching out to Congress grassroots workers in districts and blocks to energise them to take on the government. Then there were local body elections and I used the opportunity to have mass contacts travelling across the state. Small wins added to the confidence of our people and we won municipal polls in the CM’s constituency. In last three years we have been able to become the voice of people. If you compare BJP and Congress vote shares in   and subsequent panchayat elections, their share decreased by 20% and ours went up 17%.
 
 
 
 
 There were many anti-people things that the government was planning to do; we forced it not to take those steps. Like, it wanted to stop social pensions, free medicines, turn MGNREGA into a scheme instead of a right and introduce packaged food in place of fresh mid-day meals in schools. We took to streets when it raised agricultural power tariff. Government had to cancel AgustaWestland chopper deal. People here now believe that the better governance model is the one that the Congress offers.
 
 
 
 We are battle ready anytime because we know people’s support is with us. We would increase our interactions and party programmes, be it on demonetisation or exposing corruption in government departments. Law and order is pathetic and despite having a woman CM, the state is 3rd in crimes against women. In the name of PPP, they want to dispose of government assets. Over the next year and half, we will fully expose this government.
 
 
 
 
 When BJP is asked why its MLA   is making anti-government statements, why all ministers feel helpless in their departments, why there are talks of replacing CM with Om Mathur or Rajyavardhan Rathore or Gulab Kataria j, it turns around and says Congress is divided. Congress here would not have been strong today had it not been for the total support and confidence I get from senior leaders who have put in decades of hard work in the party in the state. We are absolutely united and fighting together to expose BJP.
 
 
 
 
 If anyone wants to witness a flop show, he/she should go to the so-called ‘jashn” (celebration) the BJP is holding all over the state. People participation in these is zero because the government has nothing to show. If CM’s claims are true, why are farmers committing suicide and why youth shouting slogans in her rally?
 
