Cleared/Anil (468)

 Coimbatore: Four of the five   virus cases admitted to the city government hospital are from north Coimbatore, indicating that the virus could possibly be endemic to the region this season. The five, doctors said, hadn’t travelled to any other cities recently, hinting that they could have contracted the virus from their very surroundings.
 
 They also fear that virus might soon spread to certain pockets of the city as well. Pollachi too seems to be a H1N1 virus prone zone. “The fact that they have no travel history means they contracted the virus from their surroundings. So, there is a risk of it spreading to more people in these locations and as they move around to other locations as well,” said Dr A Soundaravel, resident medical officer at Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital.
 
 The city has already seen two H1N1 deaths. A week after the tahsildar of Avinashi taluk succumbed to the virus, a 60-year-old woman from Jothipuram died of the flu Sunday. And, at least four patients have tested positive and been hospitalised at Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). “Of the four, two are from Karamadai, one from Ganapathy and the other from Selvapuram,” said Dr A Soundaravel. The Mettupalayam Road belt, he said, seems to be more prone to H1N1 virus spread.
 
 Private hospitals have also reported a few H1N1 cases. PSG Hospital has one confirmed case and sent throat swab and blood samples of another patient suffering from breathlessness for H1N1 test. “Definitely, there are H1N1 cases in the city. We have patients from across the district, including Pollachi,” said Dr A Murali, PSG Hospital.
 
 As the H1N1 virus rears its head again across the state, the AIADMK government has advised people to consult a doctor if they are inflected with fever or sore throat within seven days of returning from a travel. “We advise people not to go for self-medication,” said health secretary, Dr J Radhakrishnan. “Hand washing alone prevents spread of the virus up to 80%,” he said.
 
 The state health department said it has begun “contact tracing and treating positive cases”. 
 
 “We are visiting the patients’ families, neighbours and even their places of work. H1N1 virus is fully treatable as long as the affected get proper medical care,” said Dr Radhakrishnan. “While we recommend people to get treated in government hospitals, private hospitals too have been sensitised,” he added.
 
 The district health department has begun setting up help desks at all the nine inter-state check posts to ensure that people flocking to the state with H1N1 virus symptoms are immediately given treatment and they don’t spread it.
 
 It has also stocked up H1N1 vaccines, nasal drops and oseltamivir tablets. “We have begun vehicle checks to identify patients with H1N1 virus at all the nine check posts,” said Dr P G Bhanumathi, deputy director of public health.
 
 
