KOCHI: A petition has been filed before the high court seeking a CBI inquiry into alleged corruption of Rs 100 crore at Kerala State Cashew Workers Apex Industrial Cooperative Society Ltd ( ) in purchasing low-quality cashew. It is alleged that the corruption occurred while R   was the managing director of the society. 

 The petition filed by   leader Kadakampally Manoj has also questioned an order issued by the government on March 29 making it mandatory to get   from the director of vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB) before the   units can register an FIR. 
 
 A subsequent circular issued by VACB acting director   on May 25 making it mandatory to get his approval for proceedings on complaints received by VACB units has also been challenged before the court. Both the orders are illegal and are liable to be quashed, the petitioner has alleged.
 
 Regarding the corruption at Capex, it is alleged that the total loss since the society was established in 1969, to 2011 was Rs 86.87 crore whereas the loss from 2011 to 2016 was Rs 100 crore.
 
 A complaint was filed before VACB regarding the corruption at Capex by the petitioner and a quick verification was ordered in June last year. In May this year, VACB found out that there were enough materials to register an FIR against Jayachandran and three others. However, no FIR has been registered by VACB yet, the petitioner alleged.
 
 VACB is not registering an FIR on the corruption at Capex presumably on the ground that no sanction has been received from VACB director. Sanction for registering an FIR was not being granted by the VACB director so as to help those who were involved in the corruption, the petitioner has alleged.
 
 As per law, VACB should have registered an FIR upon finding that there were materials regarding the corruption. It is illegal not to register an FIR for want of sanction from the VACB director, the petitioner contended. 
 
 The state government and its officials have adopted a partisan attitude so as to help those involved in the corruption. In such circumstances, a CBI enquiry was warranted, the petition said.
 
