BHOPAL: For 16 year-old Shalini,   was something that affected only the elderly and was a reason to stop eating sweets thereafter. She was 10 when she was told: “Aapko sugar ho gaya hai” (you have acquired diabetes) and that her body had stopped producing insulin.

 The disease has no cure and the teen has to be on insulin for the rest of her life. “It was shocking. But I accepted the reality. We got a glucometer on the advice of a doctor. I do not like it because it is very expensive and is a burden on my parents,” said Shalini.
 
 With no government programme to assist, parents of such children are just about managing type-I diabetes. Unlike normal diabetes, there is no predisposition to type-I diabetes, explained New Delhi-based endocrinologist, Dr Rajiv Singla. He was speaking on the sidelines of a free diabetes screening camp at a clinic in Arera Colony here on Sunday.
 
 “Insulin is a key hormone that our body needs to make use of carbohydrates. Without insulin, blood glucose cannot go into the muscles. In patients with type-I diabetes, there is no insulin production within the body. Awaiting a scientific breakthrough, a patient with type-I diabetes has to be managed through insulin.”
 
 As such, the condition alters a child’s life. The economic and psychological impact -- even on the family -- cannot be underestimated, Dr Singla said. Providing a balancing act is not limited to use of insulin. Not just parents, schools too are not prepared. “We carried out an orientation programme in a private school recently. None of the teachers was aware if any of students in their school was a type-I diabetic,” said   assistant professor and DM (endocrinology), Dr Sachin Chittawar.
 
 “Counselling is key to management of type 1 diabetes. Some parents are reluctant to inform their school about their child’s condition. Furthermore, schools too need to be proactive in helping children with the condition,” said Dr Chittawar.
 
 Around 130 patients attended the camp wherein patients were tested for HBA1c, thyroid profile, lipid profile and blood sugar. Incidence of type-I diabetes is estimated to be 1 in 10,000. However, there are no term studies on people affected with type-I diabetes in the country, said Dr Singla.
 
 ***
 
 Precaution is the only cure
 
 Type 1 diabetes is one of the most common paediatric endocrine illnesses
 
 Type-I patients need injected insulin to ensure regular and fresh supply of blood to every muscles 
 
 Blood sugar level must be tested regularly
 
 Ensure that the child gets insulin and medications as per schedule
 
 Following a meal plan helps kids track their carbohydrate intake
 
 People with type-I diabetes may need five or six insulin injections every day
 
 Affected may have no predisposition to diabetes
 
 Body stops producing insulin and patient requires insulin from Day-1
 
 Experts indicate poor support from government and schools for  
 
 ----------------------------------
 
 Expensive treatment, no govt support 
 
 A normal patient needs 30 units of insulin that cost Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,500 per month
 
 Monitoring cost is another Rs 1,000
 
 Government hospitals like AIIMS-Delhi are providing free insulin, free strips for testing
 
 GMC and other government hospitals in Bhopal do not provide free insulin
 
