As a step towards making the city plastic-free, the Coimbatore   has imposed a blanket ban on all types of plastic carry bags of less than   thickness within its city limits from May 1. Apart from polythene bags, usage of disposable plates, glasses and packaged commodities (below 50 micron) will also invite action from the government officials henceforth. At a time when the city is eyeing a top spot on the Swachch Bharat ranking, the move has come as a major shot in the arm for recycle and reuse mantra.

 “It’s a welcome move,” says Shanthi N, homemaker. “There was a time when we carried cloth bags from home when we stepped out to make a purchase. But, today we hardly see anyone carrying bags from home. In fact, we have reached a stage where we don’t mind shelling out an additional rupee or two for a carry  . The move would surely curtail the usage of polythene bags.” Environmentalist PR Selvaraj says that the move is a small step towards going eco-friendly. “The idea behind banning polythene bags below 50 micron is that it’s difficult to recycle them. The bags are extremely light and can get easily carried away in the wind. They can get accumulated anywhere and even hamper the waste segregation process.”
 
 The Corporation recently conducted an expo, exclusively on eco-friendly disposable materials in an attempt to address the issue of plastic menace in the city & sensitize the public on the alternative methods available. R Raveendran, secretary, Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore, tells us that it’s high time we switched to eco-friendly bags. “The expo was to introduce the public to the alternative methods available. We should start exploring eco-friendly options to contribute to the cause.” As the city wages war against the usage of plastic, malls in the city are no behind. “We have been working on going plastic-free for the last two-three months and are in touch with the store –in charges about phasing out the usage of   at the mall. A majority of the shops have already stopped its usage. At the food court, we are in the process of identifying vendors who can supply plastic-free cutlery. In the meantime, we have started workshops on jute bag making to educate the public on alternative methods,” says the spokesperson of a mall on Brooke Bond Road.
 
 As raids are being conducted across the city and plastic bags are being seized by the government officials, public is waking up to the fact that using and throwing plastic disposables and polythene bags has become a punishable offence. Amid the drive to weed out plastic from the city, it’s the polythene bag makers who have been badly hit by the move. “The government keeps introducing rules and goes back to square one after a few months. We have incurred huge losses after the ban. We do continue to supply polythene bags above 50 microns but business will never be the same. We are clueless about our next move,” rues a polythene bag maker on condition of anonymity.
 
 City Corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan, in the meantime, has emphasized that the efforts in curbing the usage of plastic below 50 microns is going to be a sustainable effort. Health officials in the city have been conducting regular raids across the city and will be submitting a weekly zone-wise report to the commissioner. Will the general public also be penalized in the process? “We cannot target every person carrying a polythene bag which is why we are focusing on wholesale producers, retailers and dealers so that cut off the supply at the source. The raids are going to be continuous process. Aspiring for a world without plastic would be impractical but surely, we can curtail its usage. The reason behind the ban on plastic below 50 microns is that it cannot be recycled and will end up in garbage and landfill. On the other hand, plastic above 50 microns can be recycled and reused,” says city health officer K Santhoshkumar.
 
 
 Coimbatoreans have a reason to rejoice as the city has emerged as the second cleanest city in the state, only next to Trichy. Coimbatore has secured the 16th position in the Swachch Bharat ranking in the country, against its 18th rank last year. The icing on the cake is that many cities were added this year, but Coimbatore, nevertheless managed to climb up the ladder. Coimbatoreans sure are an excited lot, but they say that we still have a long way to go.
 
 
 I believe it’s the cleanliness of the toilets and the segregation of waste that helped Coimbatore climb up the ladder. But, we still have to improve a lot. We have to introduce the waste segregation programme in gated communities as well. There are many individual colonies and slums that need our attention. We have to create awareness among residents of these areas. Cleanliness drives in and around lakes are on in full swing and we need to ensure that we maintain it that way. We also need a dumping tool for each ward where we can update and monitor the work of sanitary workers.
 
 
 
 I am glad that Coimbatore is steadily climbing up the ladder but we still have a long way to go. Waste segregation has to be introduced in individual households. We still see garbage strewn around at a lot of places and this can be considerably reduced by waste segregation. Handling of the waste is not easy and one must think twice before throwing garbage on the road. To achieve maximum cleanliness, we need to have more participation from the public. If they do not lend a helping hand, the system will fail. This cannot happen unless the public changes its mindset.
 
 
 I am extremely happy that we did well this year. I personally believe that areas where we could have lost out might be probably on the Swachchata app sustainability. Though we did manage to download the app, we lagged in suggestions submitted for qualitative improvement. We might have also lost a few points in making the city open defecation free and community toilets as well. It’s great that despite competing with smaller cities comprising less population, we managed to score high. But, let me tell you these measures were taken not to gain the top spot, but to genuinely address environmental issues.
 
