Q. Ahmedabad’s dossier will be examined in the 41 st session of Unesco’s world heritage committee in Krakow Poland in July. Apart from the document, what are other essentials that Unesco will look into for a world heritage city status?

 A. The most important is a clear political message from the prime minister’s office (PMO) in Delhi, that they want this status for Ahmedabad. Our representative or diplomat in Unesco should be conveyed its importance as well—there is no margin for a wishy-washy approach. In fact the world heritage city nomination involves a lot of diplomacy, convincing and negotiation to be done with other countries for support from now till July. The world heritage status nominations are limited and contenders are more.
 
 
 Q. It took Ahmedabad’s civic body 17 years to get convinced and prepare a dossier for a world heritage city status. There were quite a bit of impediments and disagreements within community. How do you overcome them?
 
 A. It’s the same with any historic city on the world heritage list today.. Largely one sees the conflict of interest between heritage awareness groups and the real estate business. The inhabitants general have no issue. But generally it is seen that the jury favours preserving the integrity of the site. I feel the local body or awareness groups should begin community meetings, town hall meetings or cultural engagements, explaining to walled city inhabitants of what a world heritage city will mean for the city. You have to make people a part of this process. 
 
 Q. Many feel that a world heritage status will harm economic interests, makes things static?
 
 A. In fact, it’s the contrary. It brings international prestige, besides tourists and also the status of being the first Indian city to be declared a world heritage city. People around the world will know there is more to India than Agra, Jaipur, Jaisalmer or Delhi. World Heritage status does not make a city static, in fact it adds a whole new dynamic character to the city. It involves innovative new usages and designs of exiting heritage spaces. We need to be creative, like the rest of the world, who have gained.
 
 
