LUCKNOW: Health   Siddhartnath Singh has directed chief medical officers across districts to conduct inspections and raids in search of   causing  . He asserted that the CMOs should not spare any VIP, including DMs, SSPs, or ministers in the Yogi cabinet.

 Addressing reporters after a meeting to review progress of the National Vector Borne Diseases Control Programme here on Friday, he said, “CMOs must issue a show-cause notice to anyone if their offices or homes act as a breeding ground for mosquitoes—be it mantri, santri, DM or SSP. Give them 24 hours to comply with corrective measures. Penalise them if the order is not followed.” 
 
 The minister also told government doctors, including CMOs, that their performance in management of vector-borne diseases would be evaluated at the time of appraisals.
 
 A campaign against mosquitoes, called Har Ravivaar, Machchar Pe Vaar, to check vector-borne diseases was also launched on the occasion. 
 
 “Dengue is a fight between society and mosquitoes. While the   department is only is a small part of this society, people’s participation is must to beat the disease,” he said, urging people to ensure that their homes are not a mosquito-breeding ground.
 
 “The dengue causing Aedes Egyptai mosquito breeds in fresh water... even an empty bottle cap is enough place for the mosquito to lay eggs,” the minister said, adding that dengue had marked an early start in the state this year. 
 
 “Against zero cases till July last year, 89 cases and a death have been recorded in UP this year. The number of dengue cases per year has also gone up in the past decade—from 960 in 2010 to 15,033 in 2016. Prevention is the only way out,” he said.
 
 Singh assured that effective steps were being taken to manage cases of high fever caused by dengue besides other seasonal infections. 
 
 “A high fever help desk is being set up in government hospitals to counsel patients and screen serious cases from the point go. Ten beds per district hospital and five beds per community health centre will be reserved for high fever,” Singh said. 
 
