Mumbai: Your corner   may not have any incentive to move to digital payments under the new card fee regime proposed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). New charges on payments made using debit cards proposed by the   are higher than what they were pre-demonetisation for shops with sales of over Rs 5,500 a day (more than Rs 20 lakh a year).

 With the pre-demonetisation cap on charges imposed by the RBI coming to an end on March 31, the central bank has proposed a new structure with effect from April 1. Under the new proposal, shops with turnover below Rs 5,500 day will pay lesser fees (0.4%, or 40 paise on every Rs 100). But this is a segment that does not pay taxes and, therefore, there is no fiscal incentive to move to cards. The Union Budget has proposed presumptive income tax for small and medium tax payers whose turnover is up to Rs 2 crore, and only 6% (rather than 8%) of their turnover is counted as presumptive income in respect of turnover, which is received by non-cash means.
 
 According to a report by Ashish Das, professor of statistics at IIT-Bombay, even a medium kirana shop or a vegetable shop, which usually shuns digital payments, appears to have been shown the cost disadvantages of digital. The costs are as high as Rs 2.55 for a Rs 300 purchase transaction, or Rs 0.85 for every Rs 100 worth of digital payment transaction that is being associated with the QR code-based mobile payment. 
 
 Pre-demonetisation, the merchant discount rate (MDR, the amount deducted while reimbursing the merchant) charges on debit card transactions were 75 paise for every Rs 100 for payments below Rs 2,000 and Re 1 per Rs 100 for higher amounts. Considering that average card transactions are below Rs 2,000, most merchants were paying 0.75% as fees. Under the new regime, those with turnover of over Rs 20 lakh will pay 0.95%. There is also a proposal to reduce these by 0.10% for transactions using BharatQR code instead of card swipe machines.
 
 “It makes less business sense to go for a physical PoS (point of sale) and incur expenses not only at a higher rate (Rs 0.95 for Rs 100 worth of sales), but also pay a monthly rental fee for a PoS terminal,” said Das. Given that Unified Payments Interface (UPI) apps like BHIM are enabled for interoperable QR code-based payments, the high costs associated with such retail digital payments would make them unattractive vis-à-vis cash.
 
 Card companies, however, support the proposed charges as they say that there should be sufficient incentive for banks to go out and add merchants to card-accepting network. “We have seen how there had been a stagnation in terms of banks adding card-accepting merchants after the RBI imposed restriction on MDR,” said Porush Singh, division president, MasterCard. He views the RBI’s new charge structure as a positive development as it addresses the bank’s concern of transferring savings to big merchants while protecting small ones.
 
 In 2012, the RBI had capped the MDR to 0.75% of the total transaction for payments up to Rs 2,000. Given that the average value of a debit card transaction was less than Rs 1,500, there was not much incentive for banks to install new machines.
 
 According to T R Ramachandran, group country manager (India and South Asia), Visa, a bulk of the costs are on account of card payment infrastructure expenses. In the past, some banks would try and recoup costs by quoting a ‘blended’ rate for all payments. “The RBI now does not allow banks to quote blended rate, which means that all debit card transactions will be subject to the cap,” said Ramachandran. “The launch of the BharatQR code will make it viable for banks to add small merchants and do transactions at reduced MDR.”
 
 
