BHUBANESWAR: Struggling to establish the identity of a woman, who was found murdered near the   river on the outskirts of the city earlier this month, police have announced Rs   for informers. 

 This was perhaps the first time police announced such a huge monetary reward to ascertain a victim's identity to crack a murder case in living memory. Police usually announces monetary rewards ranging between Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000 to trace wanted criminals. 
 
 "We have so far not got any clue to ascertain the woman's identity. The state government offers Rs 1 lakh reward to anyone, who helps us ascertain her identity. We have also circulated her photographs with police in other districts," said DCP (Bhubaneswar) Satyabrata Bhoi. 
 
 Body of the woman, aged between 27 and 30, was found inside a gunny bag near the Kuakhai river on February 1. Police said the unidentified woman was hammered to death by unknown killers, who dumped her body near the river under   police limits. 
 
 Police, quoting the postmortem report of   here, attributed the cause of death to severe injury on head after being hit by a hard object.
 
 Police said they are facing difficulties in making any headway as the body was completely decomposed when recovered. 
 
 The postmortem indicated she might have been murdered at least 6 to 10 days before her body was found. The autopsy could not establish whether or not she was raped, police said. 
 
 "While recovering her body, we could not recognise her face as the body had decayed and swollen. Though we verified several missing cases, involving women in different districts, no clue was available. Now we are dependent on informers," another police officer said. 
 
 Some labourers of a construction site nearby Kuakhai riverbed had located the gunny bag after stench emanated from it. "We saw a portion of a leg protruding outside the sack. We informed the police," said Bahagaban Behera, a labourer. Police suspect miscreants might have disposed her body on the riverbed after killing her elsewhere. 
 
