MUMBAI: Away from the chaos surrounding the appointment of the support staff for the Indian cricket team, there's a different match being played between the members of the   and the   (CoA) that will be refereed by the   on Friday. The CoA has presented before the SC a strongly-worded status report conveying how disqualified persons, forced to demit office pursuant to the order dated January 2, 2017, continue to remain associated with their respective state units in different capacities.

 The court-appointed administrators have also come down heavily on BCCI treasurer   saying he "remained a mute spectator, lacking courage or conviction to speak in favour of implementation of reforms".
 
 While the CoA has prepared its report, the members of the BCCI ­ who are waiting to see what the Supreme Court has to say on the matter ­ are clear in their view. A day after the status report came out, a top BCCI state unit member said: "We have always maintained that it is for the SC to simply pass the new order and that will automatically make us ineligible. But if a quorum is being called for, and there is no consensus on it, what can be done? Please sack all of us, put us in jail, or just let us be."
 
 The Board members say that they have tried their best to see how the reforms could be implemented. "But if it cannot be done, and members are finding it difficult for some reasons ­ which, of course, are no secret anymore ­ then what are the options? Either allow us to explain ourselves, or just make it a law and get over with it," say members.
 
 Close to 23 applications filed by member units are pending in the BCCI. The CoA had asked these members to take back their applications and implement the Lodha reforms in return for them going to the SC and requesting that two reforms ­ one-state, one-vote and three-member selection committee ­ be recalled.
 
 However, the CoA itself is now upset that the BCCI set up its own committee ­ they have termed it illegal ­ to look into the reforms. This is a matter that SC is most likely to look into on Friday. As far as Board members are concerned, they say: "At least we are studying how best to implement those reforms. That's why we've called for a general body meeting on 26th." As far as Chaudhary is concerned, two cricket administrators TOI spoke with ­ which did not include Chaudhary ­ say: "CoA says he's remained a mute spectator. What about the others? Why target him? Just because he's an office-bearer and has given an undertaking? At the end of the day, he's still answerable to members of the BCCI."
 
