PANAJI: Most of the   candidates, who lost the recent assembly elections, attributed their defeat to the government and the party’s failure to take a stand on the medium of instruction (MoI) issue, anti-party activities, split in BJP-MGP votes and   support to anti-BJP candidates. This was discussed during the party’s post-poll review meeting on Monday.

 Defeated candidates also blamed the government and the party for failing to decide on the mundkar and tenancy issue, and the coconut tree controversy during the BJP government’s last tenure. The state government had removed the coconut tree from the list of forest trees in early 2016, while the mundkar and tenancy cases, which were heard by mamlatdars, were shifted to JMFCs.
 
 BJP had fielded candidates in 36 seats during the polls 2017, and won only 13 seats. Then chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar along with four other ministers lost. The party, is its decision to strengthen the organization in the constituencies where its candidates lost, held a review meeting on Monday. In attendance were chief minister  , BJP organizing general secretary B L Santosh and other BJP core committee members.
 
 Candidates from   told Parrikar that since former sports minister Ramesh Tawadkar was denied a ticket, the ST population did not vote for BJP in Sanguem, Sanvordem and Canacona, resulting in a loss of three seats. A core committee member said Parrikar did not agree with the argument and maintained that Tawadkar did not get ST votes in his own constituency of Canacona where he stood as an independent.
 
 Most losing candidates felt that the party should have cut ties with the MGP long before the 2017 assembly elections were announced, as it was able to nurture the constituencies were BJP was strong while in the government, which resulted in the defeat of BJP candidates.
 
 Another core committee member said that Parsekar attributed his defeat to anti-party activities in his constituency. Also the former CM felt that he was not able to give his constituents time due to his chief ministerial duties.
 
 Former environment and forest minister Rajendra Arlekar attributed his loss to continuous news in the media about the possibility of him being denied a ticket, as a result of which many of his supporters joined the MGP, a core committee member said and added that Arlekar further maintained that when an attempt was made to get his supporters back to the BJP camp, very few returned. The forest minister also said that the mundkar issue backfired on him.
 
 Former industries minister Mahadev Naik said he lost as the BJP-MGP alliance broke ahead of the elections, the member said.
 
 The Church told the people not to vote for the BJP, was how former water resource minister Dayanand Mandrekar explained his loss at the meeting. The core committee member said that former tourism minister Dilip Parulekar blamed anti-party activities and the Church decision not to vote for BJP for his loss.
 
