NEW DELHI: The choice of   as the venue for the next   National Executive Meet in April may appear to have been made in the wake of the recent impressive performance of the party in the local bodies elections but the party has been increasing its political footprint in the state for long through strong efforts on the ground that gives it plausible hopes of becoming a potent force against BJD, and replacing the Congress, in both the Assembly and Lok Sabha polls due in 2019.
 
  BJP will hold a two-day national conclave in Bhubaneswar on April 15-16 to discuss the Assembly election results of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur. The party is buoyant after its massive victory in UP and Uttarakhand and successfully mustering the numbers in Goa and Manipur to form the government.
  
  The conclave may also see appointment of various leaders to key party posts that have fallen vacant over the past few months. The broad road map for forthcoming polls to Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat will also be chalked out.
  
  The party has ostensibly decided to hold its national executive meet in Odisha this time- after a gap of 20 years-as it sees bright prospects for its growth in the state.
  
  Other than the sourthern states, West Bengal and the North-East, Odisha is the only state where the   wave and the saffron surge did not make any impact in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Of the 21parliamentary seats in Odisha, 20 were won by BJD while Jual Oram (Sundargarh-ST) was the only BJP leader to have won. Congress drew a nil.
  
  Oram is now the Union Tribal Affairs Minister. But things have looked up since then with the unprecedented performance of the party in the recent local bodies elections being the bright spot. BJP has always espoused the cause of Hindus against Christian missionaries in the tribal areas of Odisha. The Christians have been backed by the Congress and BJD. Patnaik had walked out of NDA in 2009 in protest against violence allegedly indulged in by Sangh affiliate organisations like VHP, Bajrang Dal in Kandhamal region against Christian missionaries.
  
  The Sangh affiliates like VHP and Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram have fought against alleged attempts to convert the tribals to Christianity. This polarisation has helped BJP made inroads among tribals over the years.
  
  Jharkhand Governor Draupadi Murmu is a BJP tribal leader from Mayurbhanj district of Odisha. While most Congress and BJD leaders of Odisha in the Lok Sabha belong to the ruling elite, BJP is trying to reach out to the tribals and the poorer sections of this state that is still not in the league of the developed states.
  
  Odisha has a special significance for Prime Minister Modi. He has often visited the Jaggannath temple at Puri and other religious places in the state. He has effusively praised Odisha bureaucrats on several occasions, even crediting them for hand holding him in his initial years as a chief minister.
  
  His Additional Principal Secretary P K Mishra is from Odisha who also worked with him from 2001-04 in the Gujarat CMO.   has been chief minister of Odisha since March 2000 and his continuing popularity is the biggest challenge for BJP. However, the saffron party has succeeded in replacing the Congress as the main opponent to Patnaik. 
