KOCHI: Giving clear indications that   (KMRL) is not keen to inaugurate the   in a hurried manner, the Metro agency on Wednesday said they do not want to give a half-cooked Metro for the city.

 Addressing media persons, KMRL managing director   said the commercial operations of the Metro would begin after putting in place all infrastructure facilities required for its smooth functioning. The services would start after completing the work on the stretch from Aluva to  . This includes station works, parking, and completion of training for Kudumbasree workers.
 
 George said a final decision on starting commercial operations would be taken after getting safety certificate from commissioner for metro rail safety (CMRS).
 
 He said even if CMRS pro vided approval it wouldn't be possible to begin services without having basic infrastructure facilities.KMRL has asked   (KSEB) to provide land measuring 0.7 acres at Palarivattom to develop a parking space. It is expected that this land would be made available without delay. He also said that there was a requirement of 240 personnel for providing security to metro stations, and were trying to source people from the state industrial security force (SISF). KMRL has held discussions with DGP in this regard. The Metro agency has a Rs 160 crore project for developing areas adjacent to metro stations. They also have plans to develop Aluva and Edappally junctions by spending Rs 10 crore each. He said vertical gardens would come up on every sixth pillar. Advertisements would be placed on the rest of the pillars.
 
 Regarding extension of metro to Kakkanad, he said they were waiting for clearance from the Centre.
 
 He also said that const ruction of metro rail linking West Kochi would not be feasible as it is not cost effective.KMRL is however looking into alternate modes like tram.
 
 The Metro agency is of the view that once Water Metro is launched it would ensure better connectivity to West Kochi. According to KMRL, the next board meeting would take a decision on the general consultant for Water Metro.
 
 The first set of boats are expected to arrive by the end of 2018.
 
