PUNE: Primary teachers who have not completed diploma or certificate course in education science will have to enrol for a diploma in elementary education offered by the state education department as per a new directive.
The state education department has invited applications for this course from teachers currently teaching in primary schools. The response has been poor with just three per cent teachers enrolling for the course.
 
 The directive stated that the application window was the last and if any teacher failed to apply, then heshe would be discontinued from service.
 
 There are scores of tea chers who have studied up to secondary or higher secondary level and lack any degree or diploma in education. According to a notification by the ministry of human resource and development, there are 11 lakh teachers in the country who do not have any degree or diploma in teaching. All these teachers will be offered a course from a national open university in elementary education. According to the   (U-DISE) 2015-16 data, there are close to 7,324 such state teachers who would be required to take this course.
 
 Education expert,   said, "The Right to Education Act 2009, had mandated this five years ago, yet several teachers are lagging behind. The government has acted very late and now, they are giving a short time to comply with the guidelines."
 
 The deadline for enrolment provided by the education department ended on Friday . The state government, in its directive, stated that if teachers do not complete the course then they would be discontinued from work. The MHRD has also sug gested a course for primary teachers having a bachelor's degree in education (BEd). The course would be for six months. Application for this course would also be invited soon, the state education department said.
 
 The application process for SSC and HSC passed teachers began in mid-August. Till September 11, 213 teachers, comprising about 2.9 % of total teachers, had enrolled for the course. Altogether 39 teachers applied from Pune, the highest in state. No application was received from 10 districts in the state.
 
 Around 700 teachers had applied but failed to complete the application process. It was noticed that over 6,000 teachers did not even attempt to fill the application form. Majority of the teachers did not verify their application form from the school principal as mandated in the guidelines.
 
 Of the teachers who applied for the course, 150 are from government schools while the rest are from private and unaided schools.
 
 Meanwhile, Sunil Magar, director of Vidya Pradhikaran, which issued the directive, said, "The schools were sent letters regarding this, advertisements were released in newspapers and yet there was a poor response. But if the teachers have not enrolled, then as per RTE Act they will have to discontinue their service."
 
