MEERUT: The much-awaited roadshow of UP chief minister   and Congress vice-president  , their second after the one in Lucknow on Sunday, began in Agra at 4.10 pm. As a sea of supporters gathered all along the 12km-long yatra route, the roadshow’s live streaming began on the party’s   page. Within minutes, the page had 8,500 likes, over 1100 shares and gathered over 55,000 views.

  The party’s interface in the virtual world is managed by a dedicated team that works 24X7 in the state capital. The ‘digital content and social media’ team comprises 40 people from different backgrounds, and is one of the four sections of the Samajwadi Party’s war room. It is headed by Aftab Ahmed Naqvi, an entrepreneur in his early 30s who has own startup specialising in digital content.
 
  “We have different sections within digital content as well. For example, we have a social listening team, which uses proprietary Artificial Intelligence (AI) based algorithms to listen to the conversations on social media and bring out what is important for our campaign. This is monitored real time, and we decide on how to respond and what content we need to respond with. Decisions are taken on the spot,” Naqvi says.
 
  The party stresses on positive content to differentiate itself from BJP’s negative campaign. “Kaam bolta hai is a two-way campaign. The minute we launched it in September, people stared sending feedback. They were uploading pictures of their own area where work had been done, using #kaam bolta hai. It engaged people. We are also on WhatsAapp, which is a very important tool. More than Facebook and Twitter, people use WhatsApp. We are reaching out to 24-25 lakh people every day with new content. Also, today’s rally in Agra was watched by 5-6 lakh people on Facebook live. All in all, we are working hard towards getting Akhilesh Yadav reelected, as we are a group of motivated young people who passionately believe in him,” Naqvi added.
 
  The SP’s social media team is overwhelmingly using the development narrative for their campaign. On these messages, Akhilesh Yadav is present in almost every picture that is posted. On a few occasions, Mulayam Singh Yadav and Rahul Gandhi make an appearance, but those posts are few and far between, and it is clear that they are just sideshows and the real showstopper is the UP CM.
 
  “Akhilesh Yadav is a man with a vision, he has worked hard for the state. There can be absolutely no doubt about that. Our campaign talks about development only, it talks about the achievements of the government under Akhilesh Yadav and we have hard evidence for the work that has been done unlike other parties,” says  , SP’s national spokesperson.
