By-
 

 Ward committees are the most significant avenue for citi zen participation in governance. Bengaluru's stint with ward committees in 2013 was a disastrous experience. According to the high court order dated January 8, 2013, BBMP was given instructions to create ward committees within 15 days.While the order ensured the panels were set up, the process of establishing them and their functioning was questionable. In October 2013,   Foundation conducted a detailed study of ward committee formation and functioning. The findings were shocking:
 
 The process adopted to select resi dent associations of most ward committees was not participatory.
 
 Many selected ward representa tives had no background or a body of communitycivic engagement related work as listed by the act
 
 Representation consisted of mem bers from temple development as sociations such as Muthlayamma Devasthana Trust (C V Raman Nagar ward),   ( ), caste based associations such as Veerashaiva Welfare Associations ( ), and company workers' associations such as Peenya Industrial Area Workers Association (HMT). While the rules may allow this, it's impor tant to verify their contribution to community development.
 
 The official BBMP website men tioned that no resident associations existed in certain wards, whereas our study found more than one reg istered RWAs in the same areas While the ward committee is supposed to meet once every month, records show the only meeting that took place was when the panel was set up.Here are some lessons that can be learnt this time around:
 
 Transparent process should be fol lowed for selection of the committee members -their profile detailing the body of community work should be highlighted on the BBMP website and should be in possession of the corporator
 
 Documents showcasing civic repre sentative or resident association is actively engaged for three years should be verified
 
 Issue-based experts need to repre sent ward members
 
 Meetings must be conducted every month. They should be video graphed and deadlines for decisions should be met
 
 Information on the decisions taken at ward committee meetings must be available in public domain Hopefully, this time we will get functional ward committees, which are not a hogwash. It is important for citizens to seize this golden opportunity to improve governance.
 
 (CEO, Namma Bengaluru foundation)
 
