NEW DELHI: Acknowledging that women are a disadvantaged section despite comprising nearly half of the population of the country, the Centre is considering lowering income tax for single women, introducing   health cards for free basic health check-ups for women and cashless medical service for those who are pregnant.

 A national policy for women, framed by a group of ministers headed by external affairs minister  , is expected to be unveiled soon. It proposes a lower rate of income tax for single women as it takes note of a growing segment of the population; there has been a 39% increase in this category between 2001 and 2011.
 
 Tax exemption on all menstrual hygiene products has also been proposed to ensure easy and affordable accessibility of these products. Building public toilets for women have been mooted. The survivors of gender-based violence will be provided free medical and legal support, counselling and shelter.
 
  
  
 Noting the gender bias that often results in less attention being paid to the welfare of women, the policy proposes a health card that takes care of check-ups for anaemia and cancers; a cashless service for pregnant women and a comprehensive health insurance for critical ailments. These steps are marked for “urgent action”.
 
 Increased participation of men in sterilisation programmes and government assisted living facilities for elderly women, especially widows, will also be priority once the Cabinet approved the policy. A separate section outlines the “areas for immediate action” on suggestions of the GoM.
 
 The policy also looks at increasing women in the workforce by 50% by 2030, with measures such as a complete registration fee waiver for girls appearing in competitive or entrance exams conducted by government agencies, free coaching and more hostels in cities and towns for working women.
 
 The policy also highlights the role and 
  and their role in the cultural sphere. It notes the role of women in protection, preservation and propagation of India’s diverse culture. The document promises to take up issues such as 
  such as bigamous marriage, desertion, domestic violence and forceful retention of children’s custody.
 
 The role of women will also be considered in senior leadership positions at national and international levels as mediators, ambassadors, negotiators and networkers in “digital and media spaces” for furtherance of India’s diplomatic and national objectives.
 
 The policy’s rural-oriented initiatives include Kisan credit cards with lower interest rates for women, 100% coverage for women and girls under the PM’s   and  , mission mode approach for literacy and functional literacy for women and girls by 2025 and employing at least one women in all common service centres.
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
