BHOPAL: The cozying up of BJP’s MP and UP units, evident in the anti-Romeo squad clone in MP, has got a notch warmer with Shivraj Singh Chouhan inviting   Adityanath to participate in the much-hyped Narmada Sewa Yatra. 

 Principal secretary to CM, S K Mishra, confirmed that an invite has been sent to the UP chief minister. “His office has communicated with us to inquire about the details, including the time required to participate in the Yatra. Things may be finalized in coming days,” Mishra said. If   comes to MP it would be his first visit as CM to another state on an official programme. Chouhan had attended his swearing-in in Lucknow on March 19.
 
 Only a day ago, Chouhan had announced a crackdown on ‘Romeo-type guys’, saying they don’t have any place in society because they don’t respect women. It came just about a week after Adityanath’s announcement of an ‘anti-Romeo squad’.
 
 Officials in the secretariat said that Yogi Adityanath will take part in   somewhere in Mandla district. It will give a boost to what is being touted by the MP government as the world’s biggest river conservation campaign.
 
 “Yogi Adityanath is the most popular face of   these days. Every decision of his is closely watched and followed. His coming to MP and attending the Naramada Yatra will attract nationwide attention,” reasoned an official associated with the campaign. 
 
 The MP government is going all out with Narmada Yatra, roping in gurus and celebs in equal measure. Last month, Tibetan spiritual leader and Nobel laureate Dalai Lama participated in the Yatra. Sri Sri Ravi Shankar and Baba Ramdev have also taken part in the campaign. Amitabh Bachchan and legendary singer   have lauded the Yatra. Political experts say BJP is likely to gain political dividend out of the river campaign. 
 
 The Yatra started on December 11, 2016, from Amarkantak, the origin place of Narmada, and will end on May 11, 2017, in the same place. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be present in the concluding ceremony of the Yatra.
 
 The river conservation campaign has bordered along the lines of a socio-political mission as well. In January this year, the MP government decided to shut 58 liquor shops within 5km of the Narmada, which has been hailed by women. The state then announced that it will write to the Centre to ban mining in Amarkantak and nearby places to control pollution of river Narmada. The government has sanctioned a Rs 1,500-crore water treatment plant to check discharge of sewage into the river.
 
