PANAJI: The   hormone, cue lure pheromone, emitted by the female melon fly Bactrocera cucurbitae to find a mate is proving useful in Goa’s   crop protection, with a chemical able to mimic its effect being used to trap melon flies.

 The melon fly is a serious and economically damaging insect pest, causing yield losses to the tune of 20% to 30%. “Farmers resort to chemical spraying to protect their crops but even if the taste of cucumbers is good, the chemical residue may remain on the vegetable,” a ICAR scientist said.
 
 Chemical pest control sprays render the cucumber not totally healthy and safe for consumption due to toxic residue, but the use of pheromone traps with the melon fly sex hormone is comparatively a better and eco-friendly approach, said scientist (agricultural entomology), ICAR, Old Goa,   R. “Also, chemical pest control is relatively ineffective and fails to protect the crop,” he added.
 
 The insect pest causes severe damage to major crops like cucumber, gourds, and cucurbitaceous vegetables and Goa’s specialized group of farmers called “mollekars”, who cultivate cucurbitaceous vegetables on hill slopes, suffer heavy losses due to the severe melon fly attacks.
 
 “Each fly sitting on a cucumber can lay about 200 eggs. Once hatched, the maggots enter the fruit. The pierced part automatically fills up, but the cucumber rots from within,” director, ICAR, Old Goa, Eknath B Chakurkar said.
 
 In a bid to popularize eco-friendly pest control measures, ICAR distributed 80 cue lure pheromone traps in a Nabard-funded project to 26 farmers at Veling, Ponda recently. 
 
 Scientists have isolated the hormone from the insect body and prepared a chemical blend that mimics the effect of the pheromone. A few private agro companies are marketing the plastic traps containing parapheromone. Farmers can also purchase the chemical and make their own traps, which cost about Rs 250 per piece in the market.
 
 “The cue lure attracts the male fruit fly into the trap where it dies. Thus the female will not be to reproduce, and this will help control and manage the pest,” Maruthadurai said. 
 
 Farmers said that the state government should be more proactive in helping farmers with agro aids. “The pest affects 40% of the crop. A sizeable part of my 5,000 ribbed gourd plants have been affected by the fly,”  , a farmer from Veling said.
 
 
