NAGPUR: The Yavatmal chief conservator of forests ( ) GT Chavan, on Sunday, sought permission to either capture or shoot problem tiger of   that killed a man on Saturday evening.

 State’s acting chief wildlife warden Dr N Rambabu said, “We have granted permission to tranquillize the tiger and capture it. Two expert teams from Buldana and Amravati are already on the job.” 
 
 In a span of 15 months, between June 1, 2016 and September 16, 2017, the tiger killed seven villagers and 44 cattle in Borati, Khairgaon, Zotingdhara, Tejni, Mira, Sarati and Sakhi Krishnapur villages in Ralegaon tehsil.
 
 “All the attacks have taken place in forest compartments in 10-15km FDCM area. The conflict flared up especially in the last three months after tiger mauled three villagers. The forest area is heavily fragmented and there is poor prey base,” says Chavan.
 
 After the latest death of Satish Kowe from Sakhi Krishnapur on Saturday evening, villagers set afire vehicle of Ralegaon SDO Sandip Apar, who had visited the village to take stock of the situation. Earlier, territorial and   officials have also been beaten up by mob of angry villagers for not capturing the tiger.
 
 This is the third case in the last three months wherein a problem tiger is being captured. In Ralegaon’s case, forest officials are yet to identify the problem animal.
 
 Two tigress — one from Bramhapuri division in Chandrapur and another from in Wadsa division in Gadchiroli — have been captured and released back in the wild. Sources said same procedure is set to be followed for this tiger.
 
 A five-member committee is already working under Pandharkawda deputy conservator (DyCF) KM Abharna as per the   protocol to identify problem tiger. “There is pressure from people to translocate the problem tiger but before identifying the animal, a camera trap survey has been launched,” she said.
 
 CCF Chavan says the spot is 30km away from  . “Dispersing tiger population from Tipeshwar must have settled in the area. There is crop in the fields and tigers must be assuming to be forest complicating the situation,” says Chavan.
 
