Here's an exclusive conversation with  , Chief Executive Officer,  .

 
 
 I would be lying if I say I have cracked the code on this. I have managed to keep my head above water by prioritising where I am needed the most. It is no longer about being at work for ‘X’ number of hours and spending ‘Y’ number of hours with family. What is more important is how involved one is in the process and what one is accomplishing in those hours. 
 
 
 
 Finding a creative solution to a tough problem, spending quality time with my family, and a good workout session or a hike/run.
 
 
 
 Set up challenges that seem insurmountable, reflect on what the constraints are and then work on those. The moment you shift the focus from the big audacious goal to smaller manageable targets, you are set on the path to success. I once signed up for a full marathon while recuperating from a knee injury and then surprised myself when I completed it after six months of training.
 
 
 
 Smoking.
 
 
 
 Smile. A positive interaction triggers a domino effect that significantly adds to the overall energy levels of an organisation.
 
 
 
 A good conversation or a long run... but never together.
 
 
 
 (Rudyard) Kipling describes it best: “Treat those two imposters just the same”. Both are equally important… failure for the opportunity it provides to test you on your ability to bounce back and success for testing your ability to stay humble. Give credit wherever it is due.
 
 
 
 A boat without a rudder and a sail get thrown about in the gentlest of waves. But if your ship is equipped with a strong sail and a rudder, it can navigate the worst of storms. In life, the sail is one’s moral compass and the rudder is fortitude. Hold close the values that define you and have the fortitude to stand by those in the worst of times.
 
 
 
 No silver bullets. No winning tricks. Each problem requires a dispassionate and objective assessment, and given the inherently diverse nature of problems, there can be no one-size-fits-all approach. I feel the biggest and yet the most underestimated challenge lies in the articulation of a problem. A well-articulated problem or a challenge is as important as the solution.
 
 
 
 
  
 (2004), a Spanish movie, by Alejandro Amenábar
 
 
  by 
 and 
 
 
  The ghazal 
  by Nida Fazli
 
 
