GURUGRAM: A 26-year old Sikkimese woman was raped by three men in a moving car early morning on Saturday, somewhere along the Gurgaon-Delhi border, and dumped in Delhi. 

 The woman was allegedly abducted by three men from outside her house as she was returning from Delhi, where she had met a friend. 
 
 The woman had gone to   in Delhi to meet a friend. She met the male friend, who lives in Shahdara, around 5pm on Friday evening. The two went for a movie show between 7.30pm and 10pm. 
 
 Afterwards, the two had a meal and drinks till midnight, when the woman took an Ola cab back to Gurgaon along with her friend.
 
 Sometime between 1.30am and 2am on Saturday, as she walked home after being dropped off nearby, three men emerged, forced her into a Swift DZire and drove off. 
 
 According to her statement, she was raped in the moving car, driven to a remote location close to Najafgarh, and raped inside the car once again by all three. The ordeal continued for around 5 hours. She also said she had heard the men planning to kill her, but when she begged them not to, they dropped her on the road and left around 6.30am.
 
 With the help of a biker passing by, she reached Najafgarh toll, where she managed to contact  , who drove her to her home in Gurgaon, where they recorded her statement. She was sent for a medical examination the same day, whose report is awaited. 
 
 An FIR was lodged against three unknown people, under sections 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent to secretly and wrongfully confine person), 376D ( ) and 506 (criminal intimidation) at the Sector 17-18 police station.
 
 The woman told police two of her molesters kept referring to the third as Deepak. Cops on Sunday claimed they are close to arresting the accused. 
 
 “A case has been registered against three people. We’ve scanned CCTV footage from various locations where the woman was taken, and have shortlisted the cars in which she could have been abducted and raped. The accused will be arrested soon,” said deputy commissioner of police(crime) Sumit Kuhar.
 
 Commissioner of police   said the force has acted swiftly on the matter and a team of investigators headed by the station house officer of Sector 17-18 police station, as well as a separate crime unit, are together investigating the case. “We’ve got some important leads, and the accused will be arrested soon,” said Khirwar.
 
