NAGPUR: With the civic body elections just round the corner, the   ( ) has given in-principle possession of 75 acres worth around Rs180 crore to Pune-based   International University for setting up its off-campus centre, even before obtaining mandatory approval from the state government and execution of agreement.

 Moreover, even as the civic body is leasing out small pieces of lands to Metro Rail project at ready reckoner (market) rates, it has allotted the sprawling land at nominal rate.
 
 The NMC gave permission to Symbiosis for performing bhoomipuja of the centre on the land at Wathoda a day ago. Accordingly, Symbiosis performed bhoomipuja on the land on Friday. Union road transport minister  , chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and mayor Pravin Datke among other dignitaries were present in the programme, but not on the dais.
 
 After approval from the general body on December 31, the NMC submitted a proposal before the government seeking permission to allot the land to Symbiosis for 30 years on lease and at nominal rate. The government is yet to approve the proposal.
 
 Also, the civic body is yet to execute an agreement with Symbiosis. It only issued a letter of acceptance to Symbiosis on January 3.
 
 Senior   corporator Praful Gudadhe told TOI that the bhoomipuja was totally illegal. “Bhoomipuja means an event to begin works. The NMC allowed Symbiosis to step into the land and begin activities. It cannot be possible before the government’s approval. How can one access the property before agreement between the two parties?” The BJP is engaged in dictatorship with power in the state and Centre,” he said.
 
 Gudadhe also questioned the presence of dignitaries like CM in the “illegal” programme.
 
 Defending the bhoomipuja, Datke said construction and operation will begin only after following all due process. “We ensured that the proposal is placed before the general body and discussed. The general body approved the proposal. The letter of intent has been issued to Symbiosis. We have done nothing for personal interest but for city’s development. Symbiosis coming to the city itself will raise the second capital’s standard. Also, students from the city and Vidarbha will get reservation in the off-campus centre, who otherwise are forced to travel to other cities for valuable education,” he said.
 
 Datke said some top politicians (Congress) also obtained NMC and NIT lands at nominal rates and constructed educational institutions. “They did not even ensure any reservation to locals or concession in fees. Anyone can check what is Symbiosis and whether it has any links with BJP leaders,” he said.
 
 The general body approved lease of 193.34 sqm land at Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya to NMRCL in the meeting on December 31 at ready reckoner rate. Similarly, 4-5 lands were allotted to NMRCL in the past. The NMC is adjusting the value of land in its share in the project.
 
 NMRCL has requested the NMC to allot the land at nominal rate citing that it is a public project. The civic body has reportedly asked NMRCL to contact the government. However, in case of Symbiosis, the general body itself approved land at nominal rate and is pursuing with the government for its nod.
 
 The NMC has engaged an engineer at Mantralaya for the last four days to ensure immediate approval.
 
 Datke said there is no reservation or concession in fare in Metro rail project as ensured in Symbiosis.
 
 
