LUCKNOW: Over 8.7% of the   is suffering with at least one  . This was revealed by the   released recently. The national average documented by World Health Organization (WHO) is 7.5%.

 Going by the findings of the study, a whopping 1.95 crore out of UP’s current population of 22.4 crore suffer from some kind of mental  . This includes over 20 lakh people with high suicidal risk. “The study also shows that the problem is more prevalent in urban metros as compared to non-urban metros and rural areas,” said Prof SC Tewari, secretary, State   Authority.
 
 King George’s Medical University experts who conducted the survey used MINI – a globally accepted structured neuropsychiatric screening and measurement tool — indicate that the range of mental illnesses are wide, ranging from depression to mood disorders.
 
 The study also showed that over 8.9 lakh people (0.4% of the state’s population) suffer from intellectual disorders (commonly known as neurodevelopmental disorders), like dyslexia, autism and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
 
 The survey, though sketchy because only four out of 75 districts were covered, underscores UP’s failure to take the issue of mental health seriously. WHO’s report on depression released in February 2017 indicates that inaccurate assessment was another barrier to effective care. “People who are depressed are often not correctly diagnosed. Also, others who do not have the disorder are often misdiagnosed and prescribed anti-depressants,” it added.
 
 “There is a need to strengthen the existing National Mental Health Programme and its key implementation arm —District Mental Health Programme,” the report said. “Capacity building of policy-makers, health professionals (from primary healthcare to tertiary care levels), and NGOs is needed,” it added.
 
 The report also highlighted gaps like acute shortage of human resource at all levels and absence of a monitoring system, which hampers continuity of treatment and supply of medicines. Giving recommendations for the future, the experts have sought development of a “mental health action plan”.
 
 “It should incorporate financial provisions, strengthening the existing infrastructure of mental healthcare, human resources, essential medicine provision, rehabilitation, health promotion and legislative support,” the report said.
 
 
 
