TALWANDI SABO (BATHINDA): Claiming that the Congress government in Punjab will provide “bigger farm loan waiver” than offered by the   government in UP, state finance minister Manpreet Badal promised to make the announcement for the same within three months. In addition, the government would also bring Punjab lokpal bill that would have even the chief minister under its purview, Badal said on Thursday. He was speaking at the state-level function organized at Talwandi Sabo on the occasion of Baisakhi.

 Badal also said that with the intervention of Prime Minister   in the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal imbroglio, they were hopeful of some political solution of the vexed issue being arrived at.
 
 Addressing a well-attended conference near Takht Damdama Sahib, one of the five temporal seats of Sikhs, Badal said, “UP’s loan waiver of Rs 1 lakh per farm household is peanuts. Wait for our loan waiver and it will be much bigger than the UP government’s despite our limited resources.”
 
 “We are in the midst of procuring resources and talking to financial institutions to provide loan waiver to the farmers in the coming budget session which may be held in June. We are concerned about our promise and will stand by our beleaguered farmers at all costs. Even an empty treasury will not be allowed to come in the way,” he added.
 
 The minister also announced that in the budget session, the government would table the Lokpal bill with a view to bring in more transparency and accountability in governance. “The finer details of the proposed bill are being worked out and it will be foolproof and all ministers, and even chief minister will be under the preview of the bill,” he said.
 
 Badal also accused the previous SAD-BJP government of looting Punjab with both hands in the 10 years of its rule. He said, “SAD-BJP looted the state so mercilessly that they put even the imperial forces and the Mughals to shame. The Akalis even mortgaged most of the properties with the banks to obtain loans and misappropriated those loans. The Congress government will work honestly to put state back on rails and for it we have demanded only three months. We already have started working earnestly for revival of Punjab by making sincere efforts for inviting industry and employment generation.”
 
 Punjab government was hopeful of industrial houses coming to the state. They had been offered uninterrupted power at Rs 5 per unit and a freeze of the power prices for five years, he said.
 
  chairman and senior Congress leader Lal Singh praised Amarinder and said, “As per our promise of wiping out drugs from Punjab in four weeks, the drug peddlers have diminished, and if some are there the special task force (STF) has been formed to take care of them.”
 
 Capt’s absence subdues workers’ celebrations
 
 Hopes of the people of Malwa region to attend the first public appearance of Captain   after he became the chief minister were dashed on Thursday when he gave the Baisakhi conference at Talwandi Sabo a miss. Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal announced from the stage that the CM could not come due to a foot injury. However, it did not go down well with the audience. “We have come to attend conference from Muktsar to listen to Amarinder making some announcements for farmers and about drugs. We felt bad when we got to know that he is not coming,” said farmers Makhan Singh and Surinder Singh from Muktsar
 
