INDORE: With a month to go for the  , contestants who are not members of the current body are busy trying to woo advocates with a bunch of promises for the betterment of the district court. Current post holders are busy organizing various activities to reach out to advocates and build a strong ground before the elections.

 An eye check-up camp was organised at the   for all advocates. Eye specialist Dr PS Hardia conducted the camp for which the chief guests were district and sessions judge BK Nigam and bar association’s president Surendra Verma and secretary Jai Hardia.
 
 SL Ukas memorial e-library was inaugurated late on Saturday at the district court in the presence of justice PK Jaiswal and senior advocate  . The e-library, developed by Ukas foundation, has been on the list of important infrastructural development plans at the district court for a long time.
 
 “With the work on the library done, we are now busy giving a final push for a dispensary at the district court to provide medical facilities for advocates and judges,” Verma said. He has been elected to the post of president for 11 years. It is still unclear if he will contest this year’s elections.
 
 Annual elections of the district bar association are held in the month of May and results are declared in the third week of April. With the date of declaring elections drawing closer, prospective contestants are self-declaring their candidacy for posts of the bar association and spreading the word through social media, text messages and one-to-one interactions at the court.
 
 Advocate Dinesh Pandey has already declared his candidacy for association president in the upcoming elections. Advocates Rohit Dasre, Vijay Dubey, Kapil Bithre and   Gurjar have also declared their candidacy to various posts.
 
 “I believe the bar association’s composition and working style needs to change. The bar should be more technologically adept and have higher representations of the youth,” Dharmendra Gurjar, who has declared his candidacy for the post of joint secretary of bar association, said.
 
 Elections for the posts of president, vice president, secretary, joint secretary and treasurer and six posts of executive body members will be held in May. Five thousand five hundred lawyers are registered as members of the district court bar association who will cast their votes.
 
