GURUGRAM: In what comes as a big relief to commuters coming from Delhi and going towards  , a 500-metre, three-lane   at the heavily choked   was thrown open to traffic on Friday. As a result, motorists will no longer have to take a detour through   to hit the  .

 Shankar Chowk witnesses major traffic snarls during peak hours. It is an important connection with   and onward to Old Delhi Road via Udyog Vihar and also, on the other side, with Sikanderpur Metro station. Udyog Vihar has several big corporate offices on both sides. And, this underpass, which missed several deadlines, is expected to ease congestion at the busy intersection to a large extent.
 
 Right after the underpass was opened on Friday morning for trials, it had to be closed down for some time due to heavy flow of traffic. However, by late afternoon, the underpass was thrown open to the public again after marshals were deployed to guide motorists.
 
 With its opening, five out of the total seven underpasses on the 16-lane DLF-Huda expressway — touted to be the country’s first high-speed corridor within a city — are now operational.
 
 A spoksesperson for DLF said, “This underpass is 464 metres long and has been opened for trials. It is a three-lane, one-way underpass near Gateway Tower abutting NH-8 slip road, which will direct the traffic coming from Delhi towards Iffco Chowk and has been named Straight underpass. It will allow commuters to bypass the heavily congested Shankar Chowk and help divert traffic towards Iffco Chowk. By using this underpass, commuters will have their travel time reduced to a great extent and will also help to distribute traffic uniformly,” said a DLF spokesperson.
 
 Once ready, the 10km DLF-Huda Expressway promises to provide uninterrupted flow of traffic from the Delhi-Gurgaon border at Sirhaul to Golf Course Extension Road. The only two remaining underpasses that are yet to be opened are — the U-turn underpass near Phase-I Rapid Metro station and the bi-directional underpass at Genpact crossing on Golf Course Road.
 
 Commuters are elated over the opening of the underpass at Shankar Chowk. “Suddenly travelling within new Gurgaon seems less painful with the opening of this underpass and the recent launch of the second phase of Rapid Metro. I hope that my travel time from Cyber City to my home in Sector 55 should be around 10 minutes now, which earlier used to take close to half an hour,” said Sangeeta Joshi, a technical analyst.
 
 Authorities, however, said they were yet to acquire land from Hindustan Insecticides Limited (HIL) to widen Shankar Chowk. “We require around 50 metres of the green belt that belongs to HIL in order to widen the road at this chowk,” said a Huda official.
 
 
