BHOPAL: Was it the size of a  , or a gooseberry? For almost two years, investigation into the sensational smuggling of a   is stuck on this point – exactly how big was it?

 Investigators have not been able to decide if the diamond was the size of an amla (gooseberry) – as reported by a BJP minister -- or a supari, going by the claims of the mining officers.
 
 The case was reportedly registered after the intervention of chief minister   following a written complaint by BJP minister  .
 
 On August 20, 2015, Mehdele wrote to the CM alleging that a village sarpanch and mine lease-holder,  , and a former diamond officer K P Dinkar, sold out a “gooseberry” sized diamond in connivance with a local police officer.
 
 Mehdele demanded an FIR, pointing out that the law mandates mining lease holders to deposit diamonds in the local collection office. These diamonds are auctioned by the mining department and the lease-holder gets a fraction of the proceeds as profit.
 
 The FIR was filed at   on July 12, 2015, naming Yadav. Booked for forgery and under the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, Yadav has been on the run ever since.
 
 "Only the government office can sell the diamond in the open market,” Mehdele said. “Amla ke size ka tha hira,” she wrote in the letter to the CM. Mining officials said that it must be of the size of a “bada supari” (big betel nut).
 
 While Panna SP Riyaz Iqbal said that the matter is still under investigation, Kotwali police station in-charge Arvind Singh Dangi said ascertaining the "size” of the diamond is a crucial part of the probe.
 
 "Our FIR was based on letters from the government and media reports. We are trying to trace the accused as well as the diamond, if at all it has been smuggled,” Dangi told TOI, adding there are discrepancies in size of the diamond.
 
 "The complaint says it was of the size of a betel nut, but the complaint sent to the CM’s house says it was of amla size,” said another police officer.
 
 Mehdele claims that the Rs 50-crore diamond, if recovered, will be recorded as one of the most precious stones to have been found in Panna.
 
 The police witness in the case, Rahul Singh, worked at Yadav’s mine. Singh allegedly told police that he had found a diamond on June 25, 2015, and handed it to Yadav. 
 
