BENGALURU: “Ever since   madam has started visiting us, I have start ed thinking less of my family outside. She is like a close friend and a family member, always ready with words of encouragement and a skill or two to teach,“ says Gunasagari.

 Gunasagari says that after wallow ing in grief for months, she welcomed the many vocational activities conducted in the prison. Like her, the inmates of Tumakuru's Central Prison for   are always ready to devote their time to something worthwhile.
 
 Cecilia Davies, who works with Peacemakers, a charitable trust that seeks solutions for conflict and violence, has been working with the women in the jail for about a year now.She says many of them have to overcome their psychological state before they can accept themselves for who they are and return to being as normal as possibly they can.
 
 “A lot of them are here for murdering their husbands. In many cases, women are victims of their circumstances. A series of events, right from their childhood, makes them snap and commit a crime, for which they suffer for a long time,“ she says.
 
 “Nobody is bothered to find out what made them criminals in the first place,“ Cecilia adds.
 
 The inmates are engaged in a host of activities including packaging spices, making incense sticks and household products such as decorative boxes and containers using quilling, besides artificial jewellery.
 
 They were recently taught how to sew with solar powered sewing machines, given to them by Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Rural Energy and Development. About 15 of them worked on four sewing machines to stitch cloth bags over a week.
 
 Prison superintendent Latha says they are looking at making more such programmes paid and arrange for sale of the jail-made products. “Soon, BHEL is going to set up a bakery here, which will be run entirely by them. I had to work hard to secure permission for it. The director general of prisons has told me that jail-made products will be used for department events and also go on sale,“ she says.
 
