NEW DELHI: As months passed, the faint glimmer of hope kept fading for the families of Rashmi, Ritu and Razia (names changed) who had gone missing. But luck was on their side and the girls were reunited with their families.

 Six years ago, when Rashmi was 15, she was befriended by a man who asked her to accompany him. Her father spent sleepless nights wondering where and how she would be. On Friday, his joy knew no bounds when the police brought back the girl.
 
 Rashmi’s mother had last heard from her in January 2011. “She left home saying that she was going to a temple, but did not return. We lodged a missing complaint, but the neighbours told us that it was impossible to locate her as thousands of girls go missing every year,” said the teary-eyed woman.
 
 When sub-inspector Divya approached them, they thought she was a member of the NGO that kept visiting the colony. “However, she spoke to us in a different tone. We had never seen a policeperson speaking this way and we became hopeful of getting our daughter back,” said her father, a driver by profession.
 
 The family gave the cop Rashmi’s photographs and helped her contact the neighbours who had last seen her. She was traced to Burari, happily married with three children. “I was angry when the police told us about her marriage, but when I saw the children my anger melted away,” said the 50-year-old man, grinning with joy.
 
 Ritu was found living among a group of  . She had left her home in 2015. “She had cropped her hair and looked like a boy when they brought her back. The police have advised us not to scold her but go for counselling,” said her sister.
 
 Razia (16) was lured by a man who claimed to in love with her. He went with him to Lucknow in February this year only to find out that he was married with kids. Trapped, she started tending to his three children and was looking for help when the police landed at the house as saviours. Sub-inspector Birender, assisting the SIT in February, was tasked to locate Razia. Birender drove her back to Delhi and handed her over to parents. 
 
 
