KOCHI: Varapuzha police arrested two persons on Saturday for allegedly sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl. One among the arrested is the child's father, while the other worked at the same pig farm where he worked. 

 Police said the accused were held under the Pocso Act and Section 376 of the IPC based on the statement of the child. The accused, a migrant labourer, used to stay along with his wife and five daughters at a makeshift shed next to a pig farm here, where he used to work. The accused have sexually assaulted the daughter several times since June, they said. 
 
 The other accused, a 19-year-old, abused her when she was alone at home, the police added. Police said both the accused didn't know each other and the girl revealed both their names during counselling.
 
 The names of the accused are being withheld to protect the identity of the survivor. The child's ordeal came to light after she told about it to the school authorities. The police said the others girls haven't complained of facing any such abuses. Four of the girls, including the survivor, were transferred to a girl's home in Kakkanadu, while the fifth child, a toddler, is with the mother. The arrested accused will be presented before a magistrate on Sunday.
 
  Torture allegation against cops: A 45-year-old man was tortured by the police and had to be admitted to a private hospital a few days after getting released from custody, his family members have alleged. 
 
 Johnson, a native of Pottakuzhy, was taken into custody by   police on September 18. He was let off without charging a case on the next day. However, he collapsed after reaching home and was admitted to a hospital later. 
 
 Elamakkara SI Prajeesh Sasi said the man was taken into custody after complaints were raised against him of creating nuisance and that was let off. "I had taken him into custody but the deterioration of his health is not connected to it," he said. Senior officials with the Kochi police said they are yet to receive any complaints.
 
 
