GURUGRAM: App-based cabs seem to have, of late, become a soft target of carjackers.

 An   was stolen in the city on Friday by two men, who posed as customers, booked a pick-up and then drove off in the sedan, dumping the driver on a deserted road in the dead of the night.
 
 The incident took place near Garhi village in Sector 10A, around 10km from Gurgaon city, barely a month after two men carjacked an Ola cab in a similar fashion in the city. Though a  , with a  , had helped police recover the cab in the last week of December, the two thieves are still at large.
 
 Police said on Thursday night, two men booked a pick-up through the Ola app near Sector 18 in Noida. When the   reached near the drop location, around 6km ahead of Garhi village, the duo took driver Sudip Singh at gunpoint and forced him out of the cab on Gurgaon-Pataudi Road. They snatched the ignition key and the driver’s mobile phone, and made off in the cab.
 
 Singh, a native of Mainpuri in Uttar Pradesh, sought help from a passer-by and called police.
 
 Singh told the police that he had picked up the duo around Thursday midnight in Noida. “It was a normal booking which was done around 12pm, and the two men behaved like any other normal customer. But when the cab reached near Garhi village around 1.30am (Friday), they asked me to stop the car…they wanted to relive themselves. I was inside the cab, sitting behind the wheel. The next moment, one of them pointed a pistol at me and asked me to get off. When I opposed, they threatened to kill me and pulled me out of the car,” the driver reported in his complaint.
 
 An FIR has been lodged against the two unidentified men under sections 392 (robbery), 397 (robbery with attempt to cause death or hurt) of the IPC and various sections of the Arms Act.
 
 “We are trying to trace the car thieves and have put the mobile phone number, which was used to book the cab, under surveillance. There was no GPS or start-disabler installed in the cab. So, we are trying to track the cab’s location through the driver’s mobile phone, which was also snatched away by the thieves,” said ASI Mahendra Singh, the investigating officer at Sector 10A police station. 
 
 When contacted, an Ola spokesperson refused to comment on the matter. Another official with the aggregrator said they were yet to be contacted by the police in this regard.
 
