LUCKNOW: Leader of Opposition   accused   of delivering a speech that reeked of arrogance. 

 The CM was speaking in the Assembly in the Budget debate on Wednesday. 
 
 Chaudhary recalled a “story” about a student relieving himself in the open while standing. When the teacher went to complain to his father and grandfather, they were also doing the same. Later, addressing media persons, Chaudhary clarified that he had compared the student, his father and grandfather with BJP MLAs, ministers and chief minister respectively, as the behaviour of all of them was the same. 
 
 Earlier, on the floor of House, Chaudhary said the Budget should not be big or small but a disciplined one. “It seems that the CM is rattled by the marvellous architecture and vastness of the Assembly hall as compared to Parliament and has lost control on what to say and what not,” Chaudhary said. “How can you claim that sugar production increased in four months of the BJP government when crushing season of sugarcane this year was yet to begin,” Chaudhary said. 
 
 “I have deep respect for you as an individual as you are not only a leader but the head priest of a temple,” Chaudhary said and added “you should not be arrogant. If you are a yogi, we are devotees.” 
 
 However, the treasury benches stood up in protest and his words were lost in the din. 
 
 Parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna meanwhile requested Speaker Hridya Narain Dixit to take up other agenda for the day even as Leader of Opposition and   members stood up at their places. Enraged over not being allowed to speak, a united Opposition staged a walkout even as Speaker adjourned the proceeding until Thursday. 
 
 Later, Chaudhary said that since 1977, when he became a member of the House, he had never seen an occasion when the LoP’s mic was switched off. “The BJP government has fallen from the eyes of the people in four months only,” Chaudhary said, adding that both in Centre and UP, an undeclared emergency had been clamped. 
 
 “Let them hold a CBI inquiry, we are not afraid of them. Our political career began by going to jail,” Chaudhary said.
 
 
