NEW DELHI: The government may not be averse to the prospect of allowing overseas carriers to bid for stakes in  , according to a senior government official.
 
  “This (sale to foreign airlines) was one of the options suggested in the presentation made to the ministerial panel by the aviation secretary,” said the official. “The ministerial panel did not object to the idea of a foreign partner for the national carrier and foreign airlines could be allowed to bid for the national carrier.”
  
  The discussion took place last Friday at the first meeting of the panel led by finance minister   that’s looking into possible options for Air India’s disinvestment. Others at the meeting included aviation minister Ashok Gajapati Raju, power minister Piyush Goyal and railway minister  .
  
  
  
  
  Analysts said Air India would fetch a fair price if overseas airlines are allowed to bid for it.
  
  “Foreign airline equity participation up to 49% in AI’s divestment will be critical to achieve a successful outcome for the government,” said Kapil Kaul, CEO, CAPA South Asia. “Restricting foreign airlines will send a wrong signal globally and significantly constrain the number of interested bidders. Focus needs to be on selecting the right suitor, which can turn AI into a truly global airline and help in maximising the economic benefits including developing a large airport hub in India.”
  
  Under the current rules, an overseas investor can own up to 100% of an Indian carrier but a foreign airline is limited to a 49% holding. Experts suggested that overseas carriers may partner Indian investors in a joint bid for India’s national airline.
  
  “A lot of foreign airlines may tie up with local Indian partners to bid for Air India, if the government allows foreign airlines to bid for Air India,” said  , executive director of Bird Group, which has interests in aviation.
  
  “A foreign carrier in Air India will bring international expertise and may expedite Air India’s revival.”
  
  The committee has also asked the aviation and finance secretaries to prepare a plan to address the `30,000 crore working capital debt of the national carrier, the biggest concern for any prospective bidder.
  
  Of the carrier’s Rs 52,000 crore total debt, the remaining Rs 22,000 crore is against plane purchases. Annual interest payments amount to Rs 4,250 crore.
  
  The aviation ministry is said to be working on various options, one of which could be to sell assets and subsidiaries to clear the working capital debt but some analysts said this may not be the right way to go.
  
  “Each asset sold would make the airline less lucrative for the prospective buyer,” said  , former director at Delloitte and an aviation analyst. “The government should look at other means to address this debt and not by selling the subsidiaries of the airline.” 
