Glistening in gold against the background of the tricolour with the words —   -   of India 1857 — embroidered on it, the special pearl adorned ‘Chaadar’ from India shone bright in the Nepali sun on Friday. 

 It was one of the rarest most special moments for Lucknow on the day that marked the 138th death   of the warrior queen of Awadh — Begum Hazrat Mahal — as she was remembered in Kathmandu, the city of her refuge and where she now finally rests. And making it extra special was the presence of her direct descendants who had travelled from Kolkata to Kathmandu with special gifts as a tribute to their ancestor. 
 
 Reaching the grave that is located at the rear end of the Nepali Jama Masjid at the central Darbar Marg an hour early, family members Dr Talat Fatima, Manzilat Fatima and Kamran Meerza felt an extraordinary connect with the place that had the 20 years of their great great grandmother’s life breathed into its air. 
 
 What followed was a solemn wreath-laying ceremony by Indian ambassador to Nepal, Manjeev Singh Puri and other officials, along with the family and members of the mosque’s managing committee. Shamim Ansari, the head of the committee who was the first one four years back to have realised what greatness lay in the backyard of the mosque under his management and had initiated efforts for its restoration, was also present. Finally two years back, Ansari with collaboration of former Indian ambassador to Nepal, Ranjit Rae, had made the wreath-laying ceremony a tradition. 
 
 “It was a touching day, something that was beyond our imagination since all these years and like the ambassador said, Begum Hazrat Mahal is emerging as a strong symbol of Indo-Nepal ties,” said Manzilat, speaking to TOI from Kathmandu. 
 
 And while the huge tri-coloured chaadar was not placed on the grave out of respect but hung on the wall, it was a vision to be held from afar. The plaque exemplifying the queen and the couplet composed as a tribute by an early descendant of the family, was however settled above the grave. 
 
 Later at the Nepal-Bharat library, it was also the first time that the first ever film on Begum Hazrat Mahal was screened. The 26 minute-long documentary on her life was commissioned by the Film’s Division and directed by national award winning filmmaker Mohi-ud-Din Mirza.
 
 
