Sadly, we cannot abdicate our responsibility. Not only do we have a duty to vote, we have an added responsibility to keep a watch on our rulers.

 The cognoscenti are giving us slogans like “Vote wisely”, “Make the right choice”, “This is your opportunity to decide your future”; all of which are summed up in one command – Vote for the right candidate.
 
 Alas! Just as there is no such thing as a perfect husband or a perfect wife, experience tells us there is also no such thing as a right candidate. There are examples galore of people voting for such right and good candidates.
 
 But one or two terms in the legislative assembly and these good persons transformed into arrogant ego-maniacs. Chauffeured around in their ‘lal batti’ cars, they forgot the bus-boarding common man.
 
 This journo remembers one such Goan politician. He was a gentleman, commanding much respect from the public. A political party fielded him as their candidate. The man won. But after some time in the hallowed precincts of the Goa legislative assembly, our friend became vain and proud. Among some of his quirks was his craze to drive to Belagavi in his official car, complete with red beacon and security in tow. To watch a movie. Driving to Belagavi for movies and shopping was quite a craze among Goans those days. But since our politician friend held a very high office in the Goa government, it was quite a nightmare for the Karnataka government to provide security and make other arrangements for him as protocol demanded. All for a movie. Our friend got so arrogant, that his voters dumped him at the next hustings. He is come back to earth now; even laughing at some of the things he did back then.
 
 AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal is another example of our “right candidate” gone wrong. Vowing to end corruption and riding on the Lokpal movement, Kejriwal stormed to power winning 67 of the 70 seats in Delhi in 2015. Fast forward to January 2017 and the same Kejriwal, seeking to spread his Kejri kingdom in Goa, tells voters here to take money from other parties but to vote for AAP. He has no qualms now, cocking a snook at the law. His Lokpal bill has now come to be known as the ‘Jokepal’ bill.
 
 Censured by the election commission, this IIT-graduate has the arrogance to attack the election commission, accusing it of promoting corruption for restraining him. Another famous IIT-ian, Manohar Parrikar soon follows suit, repeating Kejri’s appeal to voters, thus proving that high educational degrees do not necessarily mean high moral values. Chief minister   is no different. Displaying abject servility before Prime Minister Modi, Parsekar threatens to use government machinery against Loliem villagers opposing the IIT project. It’s a good project, but instead of dialogue, Parsekar threatens to steamroll.
 
 We could wash more and dirtier political linen in public, but numerous other examples prove that ‘power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely’.
 
 Yes, power goes to the head. So do we abstain from voting on February 4? If not, then who do we vote for? This correspondent remembers an interaction with the now-deceased grand old man of Goan politics – Wilfred de Souza. Some years ago, he was the state president of the   (NCP) and circumstances forced him to contest the Lok Sabha elections from North Goa.
 
 Some of the top leaders in the Goa NCP then were not only hardly educated, but even notorious to some extent. This correspondent was accompanying Willie in his car on a “day out with the candidate” as he went campaigning around North Goa. One remembers asking him, a double FRCS graduate, how he coped with such uncouth colleagues. His answer was to the effect that “we have to make the best of what we have; we have to manage with the resources at hand”.
 
 That, we guess, is the answer to our question. We have to choose the best we have, we have to manage with the lesser of the evils. We cannot have Mahatma Gandhi, Martin Luther King and Nelson Mandela in our government. We have to elect the best on offer. And having cast our votes, we cannot live ‘susegad’ ever after, for the next five years. As the old maxim says, “eternal vigilance is the price we must pay for our liberty”from oppression and misrule. We have to keep our rulers on a leash.
 
 The writer is a senior journalist. The views expressed are his own.
 
 
