CHANDIGARH: The surprise move by   leadership to field its formidable candidates like Capt Amarinder Singh, Ravneet Bittu and Navjot Singh for the Punjab assembly elections seems to have made both Shiromani Akali Dal and   go back to the drawing board and re-strategize.

 The dual goal, according to Congress leaders the party wants to achieve, is check Aam Aadmi Party’s resurgence as it recovers from some self-goals last year, and also portray itself as the main challenger to the Badals – chief minister   in Lambi and deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal in Jalalabad. The decision to make both Amarinder and Bittu take the plunge, even though the former had been declared nominee from Patiala and Bittu is a sitting MP, is also aimed at blunting the AAP charge of Congress-SAD collusion.
 
 Earlier, even Sidhu was not supposed to contest the assembly election and the plan was to re-nominate his wife Navjot Kaur from her Amritsar East constituency. But according to the Congress’s new plan, she has made way for him.
 
 Till now, it was AAP that was taking the high moral ground with its key leaders Jarnail Singh and Bhagwant Mann fighting the Badals in Lambi and Jalalabad respectively. But now with Amarinder fielded from Lambi and Bittu from Jalalabad, it has been turned into a three-cornered fight.
 
 “The issue first came up during one of the meetings of the   (CEC) of the Congress and some members observed that leaders like Bittu and Indian Youth Congress president Amarinder Singh Raja Warring should take up the challenge by following AAP in its footsteps. Later, Captain Amarinder too jumped in. The rivals may dismiss these as symbolic fights but symbolism is important to convey to people what ideology the party plans to follow,” said a Congress leader.
 
 However, the AAP leadership is not buying this and its leaders are questioning why the Congress did not think of taking Badal head on for the past 25 years. “Their objective is to divide the anti-Akali vote in these contests to help Badals win,” alleged an AAP leader.
 
 AAP supremo   on Tuesday claimed that the Congress decision to field Amarinder followed huge turnouts at the campaign events of AAP candidate Jarnail Singh. “Otherwise, why is Amarinder contesting from two places,” he questioned.
 
 Congress leadership has been wary of AAP recovering from the roadblocks it hit with the unceremonious exit of former Punjab convener Sucha Singh Chhotepur and revolt at some places after announcement of candidates and the surprise move could be an outcome of it.
 
 
