BENGALURU: The   has recommended the adoption of new   (AoA) -changes that analysts interpreted as a move to do a share buyback.   is expected to consider a buyback of up to $2.5 billion (Rs 17,000 crore), representing 25% of the paid up equity capital and free reserves of the company . The company has a cash reserve of $5.25 billion.

 The existing AoA are based on the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956, and do not provide for buybacks. The new AoA will conform to the Companies Act, 2013, and a postal ballot notice to Infosys shareholders points out that among the key changes will be the power to purchase its own equity share or other securities by way of a buyback. The change will also enable the company to increase the number of directors to 15 and will have provisions relating to appointment of independent directors.
 
 “It's (buyback) a decent way of returning cash as is a divi dend,“ said  , MD of Aberdeen Asset ManagementAsia, one of the largest shareholders in Infosys.
 
 Infosys is learnt to have roped in JP Morgan as an adviser for the capital allocation. When TOI contacted JP Morgan, the company spokesperson declined to comment. The postal ballots have to be submitted by March 31and the results will be announced by April 5.
 
 If Infosys' share buyback happens, it will follow two other massive buybacks recently by IT services companies -Cognizant and TCS. Earlier this week,   announced a Rs 16,000-crore share buyback at Rs 2,850 a piece. Some sources said that Infosys' buyback could be at a 20% premium to the prevailing share value.
 
 Infosys has previously overturned requests from investors to consider a buyback.Three years ago, former CFOs TV Mohandas Pai and V Balakrishnan had written to the board proposing a Rs 11,000-crore buyback. “After TCS announced a buyback, there is tremendous pressure on companies like Infosys sitting on huge reserves to go for a buyback instead of idling cash,“ said K R Girish, founder of tax advisory firm KR Girish & Associates.
 
 
 
 
 Infosys COO UB Pravin Rao's compensation has been raised by nearly 35%.He will also be entitled to a severance pay of 9 months' fixed salary, if his employment is terminated without cause. Rao will get a total compensation of Rs 12.50 crore.In the 2016 fiscal, Rao took home Rs 9.28 crore.
 
