BENGALURU:   and   have signed an agreement wherein the former will own and operate the latter's business in India. The US online marketplace will also invest $500 million in Flipkart. In exchange, eBay will receive a stake in the Indian e-commerce company.

 eBay said a part of its workforce will move to Flipkart on close of the deal. "There will be a section of employees who will continue with   -primarily in the India analytics team based in Bengaluru and will continue to support global work for eBay. There will be another section of employees who will move relocate to eBay US. Lastly, there will be a section of employees who will continue to support the transition and on completion of the transition, will move to Flipkart," eBay said in a statement on Monday .
 
 In November, eBay had laid off around 150 employees in its Bengaluru centre after it moved back a large chunk of the product development work to the US. However, the company had a lean product team of around 50 people to support India-focused R&D work. The eBay facility in Bengaluru is part of other global development centres located around the world.
 
 Following the latest transaction, eBay and Flipkart have also entered into an exclusive agreement in which they will jointly pursue cross-border trade opportunities to make eBay's global inventory accessible to more India consumers, while eBay's millions of active buyers global ly will have access to more unique Indian inventory provided by Flipkart.
 
 "The combination of eBay's position as a leading global e-commerce company and Flipkart's market stature will allow us to accelerate and maximise the opportunity for both companies in India," said  , president and CEO of eBay . "eBay is committed to winning in India in partnership with Flipkart. Our exclusive global trade partnership will allow eBay and Flipkart to reach even more consumers around the world."
 
 Binny Bansal, group CEO of Flipkart, said the partnership between Flipkart and eBay is the coming together of two pioneering innovators who have disrupted commerce by applying technology. "It bodes well for Indian and global customers, sellers and the wider e-commerce ecosystem," said Bansal.
 
