They've got the oomph, the aah-titude and the panache that have the men fantasising about them, and the   admiring them... Some surprises, some regulars ' but each of these divas are stunners, no doubt. The divas you've chosen as the Chennai Times 25   in 2016.

 
 
 
 
 
 Nayanthara is all about work and very little play. You hardly see her at events, parties, or on social media. This gorgeous heroine lights up the screen with her presence, and as she straddles cinematic genres, she has shown us how a heroine can carry off films entirely on her own steam. That Nayanthara is referred to as the Lady Superstar in an industry that deifies and worships its heroes says an awful lot about her and her work.
 
 
 Claim to fame: This porcelain beauty owned 2016. Whether it was Thozha, or Dharmadurai or Devi(L), she rocked.
 Relationship Status: Single
 desirability Quotient: Her twinkling expressive eyes, and oh that waist!
 
 
 Claim to fame: It was one theri year for this beauty. From successful films with superstars to firming up her relationship, she had so much going for her. 
 Relationship Status: Taken! Engaged to Naga Chaitanya
 Desirability Quotient: She's Miss Sunshine, bright, radiant with a sunny disposition, too
 
 
 Claim to fame: This Brit babe has been in demand in both K'wood and B'wood, and is acting opposite the Superstar!
 Relationship Status: Rumoured to be back with ex, Joseph Selkirk
 Desirability Quotient: Where does one start? She screams desirability with a capital D. Just look at her!
 
 
 Claim to fame: No films in Kollywood and yet, she was in the news for her daring decision to play the iconic Malar in Premam's Telugu remake
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Her inner wild child and the fact she can act, sing, shake her booty, and go va va vroom on the bike
 
 
 Claim to fame: This one's on a roll, what with movies opposite Ajith, Dhanush, Chiranjeevi
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Her style quotient, her curves, and that smile
 
 
 Claim to fame: She is the lucky charm for our Tamil heroes and she's tasted success in T'wood as well
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Her cute girl-next-door appeal, and let's not forget those big eyes
 
 
 Claim to fame: Her act in one scene in Kabali where she let out a piercing heartrending scream was something else.
 Relationship Status: Married to Benedict Taylor 
 Desirability Quotient: Her sensuousness and her all-woman sex appeal
 
 
 Claim to fame: The star of expected sequels like Si3 and B'hubali: The Conclusion
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Her height, her full figure, and the don't-mess-with-me attitude
 
 
 Claim to fame: She was noticed for her role in Kodi, and she's always in demand in different industries.
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Her dazzling smile, her statuesque figure, and her effervescent charm
 
 
 Claim to fame: She is only 21, but already a sensation among rifle shooters in Tamil Nadu. 
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: She's top gun, what more!
 
 
 Claim to fame: She has made a re-entry into the hearts of Kollywood fans with Simbu's upcoming film.
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: This girl can go from sexy and sultry to shy and sophisticate with 
 consummate ease. And, then, there's that twinkle in her eyes
 
 
 Claim to fame: Overcame bad buzz over her divorce and link-up rumours, and showcased what a fab performer she is with Amma Kanakku
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: This one's sexy and she knows it! The eyes, speak volumes, too.
 
 
 Claim to fame: Blessed with a unique flair for picking meaty roles and natural looks, Aishwarya stands out from the run-of-the-mill actresses
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Smouldering good looks and and there's so much going on in those beautiful eyes
 
 
 Claim to fame: With her debut film Achcham Yenbadhu Madamaiyada, she has won quite a number of fans in K-town.
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Her daisy-fresh persona and eyes that smile
 
 
 Claim to fame: This bubbly actress is in constant demand in both the Tamil and Telugu film industries
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: There's goodness written all over her, and that wide warm-hearted smile only reinforces that feeling
 
 
 Claim to fame: Apart from her excellent acting chops, this Premam girl can wow us with her singing, too. 
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Slender frame, unconventional looks
 
 
 Claim to fame: This Punjabi kudi gained nationwide recognition following her spunky performance in Pink 
 Relationship Status: Rumoured to be dating Danish badminton player Mathias Boe
 Desirability Quotient: If the curls don't do it for you, then her feisty go-for-it attitude certainly will
 
 
 Claim to fame: This slender beauty has created a stir with some smouldering stills from her upcoming film
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Cheerful spirit and lots of spunk
 
 
 Claim to fame: Her team-up with STR got some buzz, as did her music video 
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: In a world of me-toos, this one stands out. Her voice and also boy, can she shimmy it up
 
 
 Claim to fame: A Femina Miss India 2016 finalist. Enough said!
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Attitude and looks that can be on any global magazine cover
 
 
 Claim to fame: Became the female lead in a Selvaraghavan film, and signed up a slew of 
 projects in Kollywood
 Relationship Status: Single after her recent break-up with Sai Dharam Tej
 Desirability Quotient: Her eyes that mirror a myriad expressions, and a well-endowed figure
 
 
 Claim to fame: The popular TV soap, Kalyanam Mudhal Kadhal Varai has won her many a fan and admirer
 Relationship Status: Spoken for
 Desirability Quotient: Her simple earthy charm and her lack of starry airs
 
 
 Claim to fame: With a slew of multilingual films and cameos in much-awaited projects, Raai Laxmi is hogging the 
 limelight for all the right reasons.
 Relationship Status: Rumoured to be dating choreographer-turned-actor Hanif Hilal aka Veer Aryan
 Desirability Quotient: She's sexy, she's seductive, and she's all sizzle. 
 
 
 Claim to fame: This Femina Miss India finalist is also one of the most reliable models on the Chennai's fashion circuit 
 Relationship Status: Going steady with Cary Edwards 
 Desirability Quotient: Her oomph and sizzle, and the way she rocks both the Indian and Western looks
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
