PANAJI: Remember  , voted best player at the first ever National Football League ( ), now the I-League?
 
  ‘Godfrey’ to friends and all in sport is in Goa but you won’t see his slippery eel-like runs for   that had defences in a tizzy and did much to bring him the accolade in 1996-97.
  
  Instead, the stocky 46-year-old shouts instructions from the sidelines as coach of Maharashtra at the ongoing Santosh Trophy.
  
  Godfrey’s midfield mastery, strength on the ball, ability to set up his strikers to score goals and effect a powerful shot on the run to find the net himself would have made him a premium product in today’s cash-rich Indian Super League ( ).
  
  But, much as he shook off markers in the days of yore, Mumbai-based Godrey eschewed the lure of lucre when the NFL took off.
  
  “Air India provides me job security,” he affirmed.
  
  “I sometimes regret that I do not belong to the ISL era which would have brought me good money but I can’t complain,” the cherubic Godfrey added.
  
  “With Air India, I could pursue football at the highest level besides holding a job,” said the former international.
  
  “I received offers from Salgaocar, Mohun Bagan and East Bengal but I turned them down,” said Godfrey, an ‘A’ license certified coach.
  
  And it’s this sense of contentment that prevents him pursuing a professional coaching license.
  
  “I would have to quit my job for the pro license to enter the uncertain world of professional coaching which I won’t do,” Godfrey explained.
  
  “After all, I have a family to take care of,” said Godfrey, whose son Astle is in the Maharashtra squad. He also has a teenage daughter Ashelle and owes much to wife Anna for vital support in raising a family, especially during his time away with football or on duty as flight purser.
  
  A vital cog in coach Bimal Ghosh’s scheme of things in the Air India teams of the 1990s, Godfrey knows a thing or two when it comes to circumventing the dearth of resources when building a team.
  
  And lessons learned under Ghosh’s tutelage could hold Godfrey in good stead as he readies for stern battles after losing to Mizoram (1-3) and Railways (0-1) to leave Maharashtra with the task of beating Punjab and Kerala to retain any hope of making the semifinals.
  
  From Godfrey’s point of view, Maharashtra face another challenge – the U-21 players rule. “Three compulsory U-21 players on the pitch makes life difficult for us,” Godfrey said. “There’s no academy in Mumbai from which we could access junior players although DSK Shivajians in Pune run one,” he added.
  
  Coaching travails continue with the lack of proper grounds for the MDFA Elite Division in Mumbai where Air India were beaten in stoppage time by Mumbai FC at the Cooperage last season. The Cooperage is the only ground deemed suitable for the Elite Division. With it being booked for grassroot development programmes, coaching licence camps and age group I-League matches, the league often grinds to a halt.
  
  “The last match was held on June 1, a day after our players’ contracts expired,” he revealed.
  
  An avowed airman, Godfrey knows to cope with turbulence and extends resilience to ground realities that grip many a football coach in the country. Especially while serving Air India, perennial donors of honed talent to richer clubs.
  
  FACTFILE
  
  Godfred Pereira
  
  Age: 46
  
  International career: 1989-1996
  
  International debut: Versus Hungary (Nehru Gold Cup)
  
  Clubs: Tata Football Academy, Mahindra & Mahindra, Mohd Sporting, Air India.
