PATIALA: With cost-effective techniques to manage crop residue still eluding state farmers,   is set to get enveloped in harmful smog as paddy harvesting is gradually picking up pace in the state. Adding to the gravity of the situation is the farmers’ unbending stance this year, to burn the stubble as a mark of protest against the government’s failure to fulfil its poll promise of complete farm debt waiver.

 The farmers’ associated with seven organisations, who recently held a five-day demonstration outside the home district of chief minister  , left the protest venue with a resolve to burn crop stubble if the government did not give them Rs 200 per quintal bonus as compensation for the additional cost to manage stubble.
 
 The chairman of   (PPCB), which has been made nodal agency to monitor stubble burning cases by the green tribunal,   said the board has paid Rs 7 lakh to the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, Ludhiana, to get real-time updates and geospatial data on crop burning. This data would be passed on to deputy commissioners and district monitoring committees for prompt action against the violators. There is a penalty that the violators face in case they set crop stubble on fire. 
 
 An environmental compensation of Rs. 61.47 lakh imposed on farmers involved in 10,905 instances of stubble burning during the wheat harvest this year corroborates the fact that it had no deterring effect (on farmers). A Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Dakaunda leader   said, “Crushed under accumulating debts, farmers can no longer sustain the stubble management cost and setting crop residue on fire seems the only viable option for them.”
 
 P M S  , a progressive farmer who has been trying to use the social media to check stubble burning, said, “The big question is the cost of operation of these methods, and who should bear the cost.” Jag Mohan Singh, another farmer leader, said using straw management machinery could increase the harvesting cost to Rs 6,000 per acre. There is also a contention that if civic bodies pay for disposal of environment polluting material in municipal areas, why should farmers bear the cost of clearing stubble from fields.
 
 According to government records, only 21.8% of the total 19.7 million tonne of paddy straw generated in Punjab is consumed in biomass-based projects, paper and cardboard mills or as animal fodder. Getting rid of the remaining 79.2% stubble is still a challenge for the state and it is banking on crop diversification, increased use of straw management equipment and inviting significant investment to set up biomass power plant and biorefineries to deal with it.
 
 The result of orders issued by the state government making it mandatory for combine operators to attach straw management systems (SMS) to harvesters is still to be seen. But, the combine operators have already moved the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against these orders and the farmers are also reluctant to pay extra to use the SMS equipment.
 
 The chief minister has already appealed to the farmers to desist from burning stubble. The state agriculture department has also submitted an affidavit to the NGT, saying the state needed a huge amount of money to promote use of straw management equipment.
 
 Citing farm economics, a leading economist from Punjabi University, Prof Kesar Bhangu said burning straw is the best option for farmers. The government should either provide straw management machinery on subsidised rates through co-operative societies or take the responsibility of clearing the fields of residue, he said. 
 
