NEW DELHI: Things took a serious turn in the   on Tuesday when   chief   said she will quit as Parliamentarian for 'not being allowed to speak" about atrocities against Dalits and minorities.

 She was backed by almost the entire Opposition - many of whom eventually walked out - but the Rajya Sabha chair PJ Kurien said that according to the rules, a Parliamentarian can only "ask for a discussion and not give a full speech".
 
 Meanwhile, BJP leader   said Mayawati had "insulted the chair" of the Rajya Sabha and must apologise.
 
 On the second day of the 
  , Mayawati attempted to discuss the recent cases of atrocities against Dalits and minorities. She also brought up the 
  in May during the birth anniversary celebrations of Dalit icon B R Ambedkar. 
 
 "Since the time the BJP has come to power, there has been exploitation of the Dalits, the poor, minorities, and backward castes," the BSP chief said. "The Dalits were suppressed in Saharanpur but the government did not do anything about it. No community is safe in Uttar Pradesh, but the condition of the Dalits is worse," she said.
 
 Before she could make much headway in discussing the issue, Mayawati was asked to cut short her talk as she had exceeded the three minutes given to her to make her submission. She didn't like that.
 
 "If I'm not allowed to speak right now, I will resign right away. I will come and give my resignation right now, ," Mayawati said.
 
 She argued with Kurien asking how she can be prevented from raising the issue about her 'samaj' (community).
 
 "I have not finished. You cannot do this. I have no moral right to be in the House if I am not allowed to put across my views on atrocities being committed against Dalits," said Mayawati whose term in the Rajya Sabha ends next April.
 
 Kurien tried to placate her, reported PTI. He said she can only call for a discussion after giving a notice under rule 267, which seeks adjournment of proceedings to take up an issue and not make a speech to initiate a discussion. Then, a discussion can begin only after the Chair, on the advise of the government, accepts the notice and agrees for a discussion, Kurien said.
 
 Mayawati wasn't placated and other Opposition leaders, including the   and the Left parties, supported her vociferously.
 
 Congress leader and leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad said the Opposition is being "gagged" and not being allowed to discuss the "discrimination" being faced by Dalits and minorities.
 
 "We have moved a notice for farmers, Dalits and minorities and the government is gagging us...If the Opposition wants to raise issues about who are downtrodden, it must be allowed to. Does the BJP thinks it has a mandate to discriminate against minorities and the poor," asked Azad.
 
 The Congress leader also took a jab at the ruling BJP and at PM Modi who yesterday 
  . 
 
 "If the ruling party allows us to have debates, we will be more than happy to cooperate and help pass important bills and legislations," Azad quipped.
 
 CPM leader   also came out in support of Mayawati.
 
 "The points she's made are serious. This government is doing nothing about atrocities against Dalits and minorities. They are in serious danger," Yechury said.
 
 The BJP saw Mayawati's threat as a "challenge" to the chair.
 
 "Mayawati has been disrespectful in the House and has dared to challenge the Chair. She must apologise," said the BJP's Naqvi.
 
 Due to the uproar, the chair adjourned the Rajya Sabha.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
