CHENNAI: For five years, the   has kept a letter from a former principal who admits to "misbehaving" with girls of Class VI. In the handwritten letter of admission, the man apologises for the "silly act" committed because of "a mental condition", and then signs off with a request that his education certificates be handed back to him so he can find another job.

 "The parents of the girls who were molested refused to file a police complaint. I was left with no choice but to have him dismissed," says the correspondent on condition of anonymity,. The correspondent, however, shared the letter (see graphic) with TOI. "For a while there was no news of him, but now I have found that he has become the head of another international school in the city," says the correspondent, who heads a chain of   across  . "After all, his resume appears exemplary with his work in education of more than two decades," says the correspondent.
 
 On Tuesday, a government school headmaster in Madurai was sentenced to 55 years rigorous imprisonment for sexually abusing students in Podhumbu. 
 
 But verdicts like this are few, say lawyers and NGOs. In   (CSA) cases, 88% of the time children do not come forward to report it," says Vidya Reddy, a centre for the prevention and healing of CSA. "Of the 100 cases that come to us, only two are willing to pursue it," says Reddy, who was consulted on the Podhumbu case.
 
 Although the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act states that any person or institution that fails to report a case of abuse can be punished, parents refuse to file complaints worried about media exposure and social stigma that may follow, says Reddy.
 
 You cannot blame parents, when schools are wary of conducting awareness progammes, says Reddy. "One school where we ran CSA programmes every year asked us to stop for fear that it made people think sexual abuse was rampant on its premises," says Reddy.
 
 Advocate and social activist Nirmala Rani, who assisted on the Podhumbu case says that the only reason the issue went to court was because when the complaints came to light, parents, teachers and activists groups, went on protest marches and a road roko. "But in this case too, after all the initial reaction, the girls and families slowly started backing out," says Rani, who adds that with the help of the court, a ‘sensitive investigating team’ was formed, a judicial probe ordered and the girls finally spoke up.
 
 If one or two victims come forward, says Reddy, there are likely to be more and schools should immediately conduct a personal safety programme. 
 
 According to a TOI report last month, there has been a surge in the number of cases registered under Pocso. India recorded 35,955 cases last year, though more than 25,000 are pending in courts. TN stood eighth with 1,583 cases. 
 
 Pocso, says Rani, has several procedural safeguards, besides a presumption clause, which are in favour of victims. "That is the reason more cases are at least coming to light now," she adds. Others remain in the dark, lying unattended to inside desk drawers.
 
