Karan Johar's much talked biography, An  , has kept the grapevine abuzz for a long time now. The book, launched by none other than his best buddy Shah Rukh Khan, encapsulates everything right from his illustrious movie-making voyage in the industry to emotional revelations about his fall out with close friends in the industry. Here, we list out five shocking revelations made by the talented director in his highly-anticipated book.

 About his sexual orientation
 
 Karan took the media by a storm when he came out of the closet. "Everybody knows what my sexual orientation is. I don't need to scream it out. I won't only because I live in a country where I could possibly be jailed for saying this," he quoted.
 
 The LGBT community is not very happy about his remarks. They feel that his remarks might daunt other individuals from coming out of closet. Karan also revealed that he has to deal with a lot a hatred on social media regularly. He said, "I have become like the poster boy of homosexuality in this country... I wake up to at least 200 hate posts saying, 'Get out, you're polluting our nation, you're dirtying society' or 'Shove [IPC Section] 377 up your arse.' I get this on a daily basis."
 
 His spat with Kareena Kapoor
 
 In a recent Koffee with Karan episode, he mentioned that Kareena was like his daughter. But all was not well between the two a few years ago. Karan revealed that when he offered Kal Ho Na Ho to Bebo, who expressed her desired to be paid same as her co-star Shah Rukh Khan, which didn't go down well with Karan, who then approached Preity Zinta for the role.
 
 Karan wrote, "I offered her Kal Ho Naa Ho, and she asked for the same money that Shah Rukh Khan was getting. I said, 'Sorry'. I was very hurt. I told my father, 'Leave that negotiation room' and I called her. She didn't take my call, and I said, 'We're not taking her.'" He added, "Kareena and I didn't speak to each other for almost a year. For a year, we looked through each other at parties. It was very idiotic."
 
 When 25 year-old-friendship ended over a tweet
 
 The acrimonious breakdown of his relationship with Kajol was the most heartbreaking revelation Karan made in his book. He officially confirmed that their friendship is over and he feels nothing for the actress. Karan said, "She was the one who mattered to me but now it's over. I wouldn't like to give a piece of myself to her at all because she's killed every bit of emotion I had for her for twenty-five years." He added, "I can't even say that I was hurt or pained by it. I just wanted to blank it out. When she reacted to the whole situation and put out a tweet saying, 'Shocked!' that's when I knew it was completely over for me."
 
 Losing his virginity
 
 Karan revealed that he lost his virginity at 26, post Kuch Kuch Hota Hai fame in New York. The experience which he stated was 'nerve-wracking' is one of the highlights in the biography. KJo wrote, "It just seemed a bit stupid; it seemed fake because obviously the person assigned to please you is going to please you artificially." The Ae Dil Hai Mushkildirector also mentioned that he paid for the first time he had sex.
 
 His equation with SRK
 
 Karan in his book wrote about absurd rumours about him and SRK making rounds. He wrote, "If I asked you if you are sleeping with your brother, how will you feel? For me, no matter what ups and downs Shah Rukh and I have been through, he is a father figure, an older brother to me."
 
 He also talks about the time when their relationship was going through turbulence few years ago. "Shah Rukh is a very possessive friend. I think I may have hurt him when I made a film without him. And I think I got hurt because when I did, I felt he didn't give me that paternal or fraternal feeling that I had from him otherwise. I think we were two hurt friends for no reason," Karan wrote.
 
 
