RANCHI: The state government on Friday gave its approval to the constitution of a dedicated   cell for chief minister  . The cabinet passed the order for the setting up of a nine-member cell comprising two social media directors, assistant social media directors, social media researchers and texting experts. The cell will be under the direct charge of the chief minister, who will himself make the appointments. 

 Government sources said the idea was mooted by Das himself to connect with the people every minute, giving them updates about his schedules, tours and the work undertaken by the government. “The social media cell team will travel with the chief minister wherever he goes,” principal secretary to Das,  , told TOI. 
 
 It is, however, not clear if the cell will use the social media platform to address public grievances. Union railway minister   is known to addresses the grievances of railway passengers through twitter. 
 
 The move, dubbed as a ‘propaganda tool’ by the opposition, has set a precedent. While several state governments have hired agencies to manage social media accounts of their chief ministers, the Jharkhand government has appointed a full team of employees to man the cell. 
 
 In another move, the 11-member ministerial council accorded agriculture status to the dairy husbandry sector to provide loans at low rates. The move will enable dairy farmers eligible for loans against interest rates of 4% against the current rate of 12%. “Dairy husbandry will now come under the priority sector of banks,” cabinet coordination secretary   said. 
 
 Though Jharkhand produces 19 lakh tons of milk, it still falls short of the state’s annual requirement of 33.69 lakh tons. The state government last year had announced the distribution of quality breed cows to BPL households at subsidized rates to increase the state’s gross annual milk production and improve village economy.
 
 A total of 19 proposals were sanctioned by the cabinet, including the Rs 593.39-crore project of the Deoghar Municipal Corporation for the setting up of a solid waste management system in the temple town and micro irrigation projects worth Rs 20 crore in various districts. 
 
