MUMBAI: Even as controversy has dominated the build-up to India’s upcoming   rubber against  , the Shiv Chatrapathi Sports Complex in Balewadi has gone all out to ensure it’s ready to welcome the teams and spectators for a tie that marks the return of tennis’ coveted team championship to Pune after 43 years.

 The sprawling venue has undergone a revamp for the Asia/Oceania Group-1 encounter set to unfold on February 3, with a relaying of the playing surface (hard courts) and refurbishment of stands, part of necessary changes.
 
 “The courts and the stadium have been renovated for the tie,” Dr.  , chairman of the organising committee, said at a press conference here on Monday. “We had to upgrade some of the facilities. Though the stadium itself was last renovated in 2007 and made to international standards. But Davis Cup had some other requirements, including security of players, so all those have now been taken care of.
 
 “The seating capacity is almost 4000 spectators and we hope the people come in large numbers to witness the matches,” the senior IAS officer added.
 
 And with 43-year-old Paes chasing a record, Kareer said special arrangements have been made to ensure the veteran could go on to make history in the presence of a good turnout. “We will be making arrangements for people to come in. More than a distance issue, it is actually an issue of crossing the highway that weighs on the mind.
 
 “So we have made special arrangements throught the Pune Metropolitan transport undertaking which will be plying buses,” said Kareer.
 
 Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, whose wife Amruta is chief patron of the three-day tie, will be the guest of honour when Paes teams up with Saketh Myneni for the doubles match against the Kiwis scheduled for February 4. If the Indian duo win, it would see Paes go past Italy’s Nicola Pietrangeli in the list of most doubles wins in Davis Cup history. Both men are currently locked on 42 wins.
 
 However, the possibility of this also being Paes’ last Davis Cup outing for India exists going by Aita secretary-general Hiranmoy Chatterjee’s comments last week where the official said the 18-time Grand Slam champion had to take a call on retirement ‘based on reality.’
 
 
