PUNE: Water shortage is increasingly reducing the glory of the heronry at Bhadalwadi while causing an alarming decrease in the number of birds, including endangered species, found at the traditional breeding site.

 Experts said as much as 70% of the bird population, that was seen here earlier, is now gone. They attribute the fleeting birds to various bunds built on canals that restrict the amount of water the site receives.
 
 The groves typically have thorny trees, which are partly submerged in water, making it an ideal nesting and breeding environment for various bird species. The groves also protect the birds from predatory animals.
 
 In the latest edition of the   and Wildlife, its chief editor   mentions, “In western Maharashtra, during the months of January to April such heronries resound with the cacophony of breeding birds. While some of these sites depend on the success or failure of southwest monsoon, others in watershed areas are solely dependent on irrigation canal-fed water.” The quarterly journal is jointly published by the state’s forest department and Ela Foundation.
 
 Owing to dipping groundwater levels and increasing plantation of sugarcane, a cash crop which requires a lot of water, many bunds are being built on the canals that feed the heronries. This is the case with Bhadalwadi, located near Bhigwan town on the   highway.
 
 “The site, which at one time hosted thousands of birds, has seen a decline of nesting bird population by almost 70%, due to the water shortage over the past two years. Now, owing to tree felling and dry land, the birds only occupy a smaller part of the site that still has some water accumulation. We need to plan and move fast before the site is abandoned entirely by the birds,” Pande told TOI.
 
 The biggest cause for concern is that two endangered species, Eurasian Spoonbill and Painted Stork, also breed here. “The forest department has shared this concern and two years ago, the site was included under the National Program for Wetland Conservation. Funds have been allocated to the site for the same. However, a plan needs to be formulated to best utilise the funds,” he said.
 
 Pande suggested that since the water supply comes through the irrigation department, while the concern for the birds at the site is under the forest department, there needs to be an inter-departmental meeting to urgently form a plan to conserve the sensitive site. 
 
