GURUGRAM/ DHARUHERA: Under stress for losing his job at   Auto’s  , a 35-year-old contractual  , Ajay Pandey, allegedly committed suicide on Monday.

 A complaint has been lodged at Dharuhera police station against the company management and contractors. Omax has denied allegations that Pandey was harassed by the company and its contractors, and said he had not been keeping well for a long time.
 
 After the autopsy at Rewari’s General Hospital on Tuesday, other sacked workers paraded Pandey’s body outside the Omax factory and demanded compensation for his family as well as action against the management and contractors.
 
 Pandey, originally from Chhapra in Bihar, came to Dharuhera 14 years ago and had since been working as a labourer. His wife and two sons, aged 6 and 8, live with his elderly parents in Bihar. 
 
 Cops said he was   from the ceiling fan of his room with a white cloth by his nephew, Chitranjan, when he returned home from work around 4pm on Monday. Pandey shared the rented accommodation with his nephew who works with a private firm.
 
 Omax had, on February 1, terminated contracts with six contractors through whom 351 workers were hired by the company for its Dharuhera plant. Pandey was one of those who lost their jobs at the site.
 
 Since he lost his job, Pandey went into severe depression and he had even told his brother about it. “He would send around Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 a month out of his salary of Rs11,000 to his family. He was in tears when he told me about the lay-offs of  . I had told him I would do my best to help him, but he didn’t give me a chance,” said Jaiprakash, the deceased’s brother who has a permanent job in the same company.
 
 In the police complaint, Jaiprakash has alleged his brother lost his job without any advance notice. He has also claimed when Pandey refused to accept the final settlement by Omax, the management and his contractor had even threatened him.
 
 However, a spokesperson for Omax said, “Our sincere condolences are there with the family of the deceased. (But) his suicide has nothing to do with the termination of the contract of 351 workers. He was not keeping well since September 2016. For the records, he has been absconding from his duty since September 5, 2016, without any notification to the employer.”
 
 
