                   Nagpur: Former chief minister and Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan has claimed that new evidence is available to prove that demonetisation exercise was the brainchild of American financial institutions and credit card companies to reap windfall gains in India by way of transaction charges. “Through the Richard Durbin amendment as a part of Dodd Frank financial reforms legislation, the US senate passed a law regulating swipe fees. A cap of around 21 cents per transaction plus some other incidental charges were imposed in the US. The Durbin amendment caused revenue loss to major credit card companies to the tune of billions of dollars,” said Chavan while speaking to select journalists here on Monday. Chavan, who had a stint at prime minister’s office (PMO) in Manmohan Singh government before he was deputed to Maharashtra as CM, said the US companies started lobbying in India and possibly some bureaucrats misled Prime Minister Narendra Modi by exaggerating benefits of switching over to cashless economy. “We all know that it was a big disaster. It can be termed a fraud perpetrated on the countrymen. What was most surprising was that it took RBI right months to count the old demonetized notes and finally tell the world that almost 99% of that old currency was converted into new notes,” said Chavan. Not much data is available even from RTI from the government, but a joint communiqué issued after the then US President Barack Obama’s visit in January 2015 gave it away as one sentence acknowledges welcomes India’s willingness to shift to cashless economy, said Chavan. He said the US companies behind it knew the large Indian market could be tapped by promoting this system. “What only gives credence to this theory is that even after so much time since demonetization, the government has not put any regulations in place to rein in the charges levied by these card companies and payment banks which seem to be the only ones to gain from demonetization,” alleged Chavan. Before this move, barely 3% used plastic money in the country but now its thrust on all, said Chavan. He was on a two-day tour of Vidarbha  “In last couple months, the social media is seething with anger against the BJP government. The Modi magic is waning fast. But to channelize the social media anger, the Opposition needs to descend on streets. To make people aware of how the country has suffered on economic front, unemployment, the setback caused by rushing through with GST regime, is something that the Opposition has failed to convert to people”, Chavan added. “Modi’s efforts to paint a larger than life picture of himself would surely be his undoing. Impression created by him that he was bigger than the party or even the RSS has angered the Sangh parivar and all this is bound to reflect in the 2019 elections. The lofty promises he made pleased all in 2014 and as Opposition we were too shocked by the defeat to react. But now things are falling in place and people have realized the damage done by Modi,” said Chavan.