GHAZIABAD: Members of a   organisation on Saturday led a protest march to the district magistrate’s office seeking the reopening of  , which was locked down soon after its inauguration in September last year. 

 It was closed down soon after the first batch of pilgrims used it in October-November, 2016. Haj House remains locked up owing to litigation pending with the National Green Tribunal ( ). The district administration, on its part, said that its hands are tied because of definite orders from the green court to keep it closed till the issue is resolved.
 
 As a result, thousands of pilgrims — mostly from western UP districts — who are unable to use the Haj House have been inconvenienced.
 
 Earlier on Friday, members of Muslim Maha Sabha held a protest in the city and accused the   government of turning a deaf ear to their demands. “As we all know that Ala Hazrat Haj House in   was conceived to serve as a transit point for thousands of Haj pilgrims mostly from 16 western UP districts,” said Imran  , president, Muslim Maha Sabha.
 
 “It took 13 years to build the Haj House at a cost of Rs 51 crore and it was even inaugurated last year by then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav but the facility is not available this year as it has been locked down and we are told that since the matter is with the NGT it cannot be opened till orders from the court,” Khan said.
 
 When contacted, district minorities officer Son Kumar said, “This is not an administrative matter as the issue is with the NGT and the state government does not have a say in the matter.”
 
 In September last year, a petition was filed by the Society for Protection of Environment and Biodiversity at the NGT saying that Haj House has been built on the Hindon floodplain in complete violation of environmental norms and hence it should be demolished. Petitioner Akash Vashistha, convener of Society for Protection of Environment and Biodiversity said , “The case is due to be heard on August 3 this year by the NGT.”
 
 
