HYDERABAD:   Lift Irrigation Scheme (KLIS) has reached a crucial phase. The public hearings are to be conducted in one village in each of the 15 districts through which the project will pass and objections and suggestions from the general public if any will be recorded.

 Environmental clearance is mandatory for taking up main works of the project. The ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) had recently released terms of reference (TOR) for the project. “The irrigation department got the environmental impact assessment (EIA) done through the Environment Protection, Training and Research Institute (EPTRI). The hearings will be conducted in all the districts as per the norms,“ KLIS chief engineer B   told TOI on Friday.
 
 For instance, a public hearing would be conducted on August 22 in Mancherial. Similarly , public hearings are scheduled in   and Kamareddy. In Peddapally, the irrigation department has proposed reservoirs, canals, pump houses and tunnels for the project.
 
 In fact, the previous Congress government got the environmental clearance (EC) for the Pranahitha-Chevella Irrigation project in 2007, as it was known in its old avatar. However, its validity expired in 2012.Afresh EC was necessitated as the Telangana government re designed the entire project and renamed it Kaleshwaram.
 
 The project costing Rs 80,499 crore has been mired in controversy ever since its conception. While the opposition parties said the re-engineering of the project was done for personal gains of those in the government and also to benefit contractors, farmers in villages like   opposed what they called forcible land acquisition.
 
 Official sources said the data for EIA and environmental management plan (EMP) were collected within 10 km of Kaleshwaram project site for carrying out tests such as air, noise, surface water, ground water, soil quality of the region and they were well within the prescribed standards of the competent authority .
 
 “The flora and fauna study indicates that there are no rare and threatened species in the project site. On the contrary, the project will conserve the local fauna and flora,“ claimed officials.
 
