PUNE: CCTV cameras and well-lit streets do not seem to deter robbers in the city.

 Around 12.25am on Thursday, sales consultant   (36) of Kalepadal, was robbed on  , around 10km from Pune.
 
 Gathibandhe was on his way home via Khadi machine and Undri chowk after collecting a food parcel from a Kondhwa restaurant, when three motorcycle-borne people intercepted his car from the opposite side.
 
 One of the robbers, armed with a spanner, ordered Sachin to get out and threatened him with dire consequences if he did not hand over his cellphone and money.
 
 When Sachin told them he had nothing, the robbers abused him in Hindi and threatened to damage his car with the spanner. One of them checked the car and snatched his cellphone. Sachin told TOI, “Another robber tried to hit me with the spanner but I caught hold of his hand while the third man snatched my chain. I received scratches on my neck.”
 
 After snatching the valuables, totally worth Rs 25,000, the trio fled. 
 
 Sachin then chased the robbers for about 100m. During the pursuit, he brushed against their bike, following which the rider lost control and the bike ran into a 3ft ditch and got struck in the mud.
 
 Sachin said, “The robbers asked me to help them pull out the bike but I asked them to return my valuables first, which they refused. They abandoned the vehicle and fled via Handewadi chowk towards Sayyednagar.”
 
 Sachin said, “I use the road everyday to go home... I was so afraid that I didn’t pursue them further and rushed home, discussed the incident with my family and then alerted police.” He filed a complaint of robbery against three unidentified men under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 Senior inspector Vishnu Pawar, in-charge of the Hadapsar police station, said, “We have seized the bike. Investigation has revealed it was stolen from Bibvewadi limits on January 24. Our beat marshals visited and searched the spot to trace the robbers, but in vain.”
 
 “Sachin, in his complaint, has described the robbers. We are checking CCTV footage and working on other clues to ascertain the identity of the suspects,” Pawar said.
 
 Ashok Navale, deputy sarpanch of Handewadi gram panchayat, outside whose office the incident took place, said he has handed over the CCTV footage from the cameras outside his office to police. “The place is known for accidents but this is the first time that a robbery had taken place.”
 
 College student   said that hearing the commotion that night, some people had gathered at the spot thinking it was an accident. “The victim did not raise an alarm or else we would have nabbed the robbers. He raised an alarm only when the suspects fled but none of us bothered to chase the robbers as it was too late in the night,” Bhintade said.
 
