BATHINDA: An inquiry by   sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) has indicted municipal council (MC) president Sunil Kumar Bitta, of   (SAD), then executive officer (EO) and two clerks for financial bungling.   Narinder Singh Dhaliwal submitted his inquiry report to the Bathinda deputy commissioner on Monday. The SDM has recommended action against the four.

 Two independent councillors Sonali Mittal and Rajni had on March 27 this year given a complaint to Bathinda DC Diprava Lakra alleging financial irregularities in the civic body in the financial year 2016-17. The DC had asked the Rampura Phool SDM to probe the complaint.
 
 Meanwhile, on May 2, 15 out of 21 councillors of   had moved a no-confidence motion against Bitta and asked him to convene a meeting to prove his majority to save his post.
 
 “During the inquiry, I found gross misuse of power, financial loss to the council and providing monetary benefits to some individuals. Taking it as a serious issue, I have recommended action against the MC president, the then EO and clerks   and Lachman Dass,” said SDM Dhaliwal.
 
 He said it was found that an individual was allotted the task of collection of bus stand fees from August 15, 2016, to April 25, 2017, without any auction or tender. When the auction was conducted on April 25, the work was allotted for a payment of Rs 5 lakh per annum. Last year, Rs 7.40 lakh were paid for the same work, he added.
 
 “The civic body suffered losses in giving contract for the canteen at the local bus stand. It has been mentioned that in 2015-16, the canteen was auctioned for Rs 24 lakh for a year. However, in 2016-17 the MC collected only Rs 7.20 lakh for it. The irregularities were also detected in the collection of building map fee. The council president was also found guilty of not making proper entries in the proceedings book and making fake resolutions. Going by that action has been recommended,” said the SDM.
 
 Bathinda DC Diprava Lakra said, “The SDM has submitted the report but I still have to go through it. Appropriate action will be taken after going through the report.”
 
