NEW DELHI:   has sought up to three times increase in social sector spending, partially by cutting down on the mega subsidies that the government doles out every year as well as diverting the extra revenue earned over the next three years to sectors such as health and education.
 
  The Aayog has made this recommendation in a three-year action plan that it will unveil after the Union budget for 2017-18 is presented, a senior government official told ET, saying the think tank will make revenue and expenditure projections for key sectors.
  
  “Public expenditure on health in India is significantly on the lower side. So the action plan will have some forecast of the tax revenues as well as some sort of road map for expenditure based on the budget estimates of 2017-18 for key sectors — health, education and railways,” the official said, requesting anonymity.
  
  The Aayog has already made a presentation to the Prime Minister and senior finance ministry officials on its broad approach to the action plan, which is expected to lay down the roadmap for the BJP-led NDA government for policy interventions in the future. Prime Minister   is the chairman of NITI Aayog, which did not just replace the erstwhile   but also did away with the traditional five-year plans and will soon come out with a long-term vision document for the country.
  
  Another senior government official aware of the proposal said the institution has suggested a threefold jump in health outlay from over Rs 30,000 crore now to Rs 1 lakh crore in the next three years. “This cutdown on subsidies and subsequent increase in allocation to socials sectors may not be reflective in the first year of the action plan partially because key states are undergoing elections at the time of Budget, but going forward the government will have to streamline expenditure to important sectors for sustained economic growth in the country,” the second official said.
  
  The road map laid out through the action plan is in sync with the existing strategy, as part of which the government is lowering its overall   bill and making all efforts to raise revenue collection so that the extra funds could be diverted to important sectors with marginal increase in overall expenditure. Union budget 2016-17 lowered the subsidies on food, fertiliser and petroleum by more than 4 per cent to nearly Rs 2.31 lakh crore, down from Rs 2.41 lakh crore for 2015-16.
  
