There was a time when register marriages were reserved for eloping couples or revolutionaries. But not anymore. Recently, former MLA K K Lathika posted on her social media page that her son Unni had got married, without any rituals or customs. “We are doing away with the customs. Two people who love each other have started a life together,” the happy mother wrote on her page. Similarly, when Shiya*, a writer and her shutterbug beau decided to tie the knot, they were sure that it should be a wedding sans ceremonies and rituals. And when they informed their parents about it, all they did was support the joyous couple.

 The reasons why these couples chose to say no to customs are many, and their numbers are on the rise. Here are the whys and the hows…
 
 
 
 
 It’s the easiest way to keep your D-day simple and intimate, say most of these couples. A few months ago, cultural doyen Soorya Krishnamoorthy’s daughter Sita Krishnamoorthy IRS got married to her batchmate Chandan Kumar, in the puja room of their house. Simplicity was what they advocated. Sita explains, “First of all, both Chandan and I believe in leading a simple life. Neither of us never really enjoyed pompous, elaborate weddings. We wanted to use the money for a good cause, which gives us more satisfaction. We could contribute to the education of about 20 students with the amount we would have spent, and I feel that’s what that made the occasion a lot more joyful.”
 
 A custom-less wedding is not as stressful as a regular one either, they say. Lilia Jose, who married her fiancé, artist Roshan, a few years ago, says, “Our families were really drained after Roshan’s sister’s wedding. A few days later, during a casual conversation, Roshan said, ‘Let me find out how we can have a custom-less wedding’ and went out. He was back a bit later and said, ‘All you need is the girl and ID cards!’ Our families got together and we went to the register office in the same clothes we were wearing, and got married!”
 
 Many inter-religious, non-religious and inter-state couple also find custom-less weddings very charming. For instance, Shiya says, “Neither of us are religious and so opted for a wedding through the Special Marriage Act.” Similarly, Soma John, who works in the army and her husband Manjesh Sharma, from Haryana, took the simple route to avoid the elaborate wedding traditions of both the cultures. “We got married in April this year in Arya Samaj in Pune, without the hassles of customs. We felt that’s what would keep it memorable and beautiful, than going for the different ceremonies,” she says.
 
 
 
 
 With the money saved up from their no-ritual wedding, Dr Aparnna Nair from Thiruvananthapuram went on a four-month foreign trip with her husband. “Marriage is a bond between two people and you don’t need to follow societal rules of throw in a lot of money for just one day. Rather, we rewarded ourselves with a series of wonderful trips and visited many countries,” Aparnna recalls.
 
 Gayathri Jeaks, who runs a design studio in Bengaluru and her filmmaker husband Gireesh Aattuvalappil felt that investing in their new studio makes more sense than spending money on a big wedding. Gayathri says, “We belong to different religions and anyhow, didn’t want to spend all our money for a single day of celebration. Rather, we invested in our studio, which would make our future too bright. Soon after, a friend of mine also got inspired by us and that felt quite rewarding,” she says. 
 
 Shiya and her hubby have spent just Rs. 1,300 in all, at the register office. “We would have shelled out several lakhs of rupees otherwise. “We can use that money for something more meaningful, like build a home or travel, or for charity. We are not against treating our friends and family to share the joy, and are doing so in bits and pieces. At the end of the day, everyone is happy.”
 
 
 
 Getting acceptance for an unconventional choice is never easy in Kerala, and the same goes for custom-less weddings too. It’s been a few years since Lilia and Roshan got married and she says, “When a small report on our wedding came on a news site, many commented on it saying, ‘This marriage won’t last more than six months!’ Looking back, I feel amused,” Lilia says.
 
 In the case of Aparnna, it inspired many in their family too to take the ‘say no to ceremonies’ route. “It wasn’t easy for my parents at first to understand this choice, as they felt that people should be informed or they will resent it. But now, they are also OK with it.”
 
 Interestingly, many of these couples, like K K Lathika’s son Unni and his wife, don’t even feel that they have to announce to the whole world that they have gotten married. “It’s a beautiful, private event in someone’s life. That’s how nature does it, right? Why make a big deal of it? Moreover, you can use the money and time for fun things like travel,” says Kiran Jose*, who got married last month, to his long-time girlfriend.
 
 
