NEW DELHI: The auto industry may have blamed fuel companies for its large   inventory saying poor availability of   fuel slowed down transition, oil companies claimed they have been supplying BS IV fuel to cover countrywide requirements for a month now. The Petroleum Federation of India (PFI) said auto manufacturers were aware that refineries are ready to supply BS IV fuel in time to meet the April 1, 2017, deadline.

 PFI also said that they are ready to supply BS VI fuel in small quantities for “testing requirements” of auto companies. The BS VI norms will come in to force in 2020 which is likely to bring down particulate matter (PM) emissions from heavy duty vehicles by 50% as compared to BS IV vehicles.
 
 “We are very surprised at the statements made by auto manufacturers.
 
 Why are they blaming us? We have made it known that we are ready with BS IV fuel. All the refineries are ready with BS IV fuel for the past month,” said R K Malhotra, director general, PFI. The body has also written to the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers about SIAM’s “misleading statements” on unpreparedness of refineries, PFI representatives said.
 
 Sanjiv Singh, chairman of   limited said, “What they are saying is not true.   has been ready with BS IV fuel for three months now. As far as I know all fuel companies have been ready for a month now.
 
 Even a year ago fuel companies were able to supply to whole of north India. We have been conveying this at all forums. We have also conveyed that we can supply BS VI fuel in small quantities to auto companies for testing requirements.”
 
 In various stocktaking meetings held by the SC mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) in the past six months, the ministry of petroleum and natural gas (MoPNG) has been submitting that refineries are prepared for BS IV.
 
 In a December 14 meeting, officials from the ministry of petroleum and natural gas (MoPNG) had informed EPCA that BS IV fuel would be available nationwide by April 1, barring small border areas. Representatives from Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) told EPCA that all manufacturers had vehicles, which are BS IV type approved.
 
 
