PARSADEPUR (AMETHI): RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s helicopter landed on the Gyan Bharti inter college grounds in Amethi’s Parsadepur block at 2.45pm. Lalu emerged, arrived on stage, and after the customary welcome, spat the paan he’d been chewing and gargled. And then he came straight to the point. “The people of Bihar sent Narendra Modi and   empty handed. This is not just a poll for UP, but for the entire country. Send them packing from UP, too,” he said.

 On the last day of campaigning before the fourth-phase poll on February 23, Lalu appealed to people of Rae Bareli and Amethi to give a decisive mandate to the SP-Congress alliance. Campaigning in Harchandpur, Salon and Tiloi, the former Bihar CM said Rahul Gandhi and Akhilesh Yadav had joined hands to ensure secular votes weren’t split. “It is not correct to divide the country on religious grounds,” he said.
 
 Then Lalu launched an attack on Amit Shah and Modi. He said, “Amit shah bahut ganda ganda baat bolta hai. Gau mans ka baat kiya, beef ka baat kiya. Modi bola Lalu apne bachchon ko settle karne ke liye gathbandhan kiya. Unko ladke bacche nahin hain to him kya karein? (Amit Shah said many dirty things. He spoke of beef. Modi said I did gathbandhan to settle my children. If he doesn’t have a family or children, am I responsible?).”
 
 With crowds hanging on his every word, Lalu slipped into colloquialisms. In one, Lalu said, “Amit Shah genda hai. Genda Nahi hota to lift mein na phasta. Agli baar aaye to bata de, hum baalti mein bitha ke tanga denge (Amit Shah is a rhinoceros. That’s why he got stuck in an elevator. Next time, we’ll put him in a bucket and heave him upstairs).”
 
 In the other, Lalu was even more cutting in his reference to Modi. “Hijra bhaiyon ki tarah taali baja baja Ke bolta hai. Aise aise... (Like our eunuch brothers, Modi also keep clapping during his speech, like this....),” Lalu said.
 
 In the reserved Salon constituency where he was campaigning for Congress candidate Suresh Nirmal, Lalu said Nirmal, a ‘dhobi’, would wash the BJP out of Salon’s boundaries. “Ye Nirmal dhobi Modi ko dho dalega,” he said. “BJP and RSS are anti-Dalit, anti-backward people. Modi abuses every leaders. He didn’t even spare Ambedkar. BJP says they would rethink reservation. But if he is Modi, we are Yadavs. We won’t let it happen.”
 
 The former Bihar chief minister raked up Modi’s “communal past”. Touching upon Godhra riots, Lalu invoked former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee and how he reminded Modi of his ‘Raj Dharma’, and how he was protected by LK Advani.
 
 Lalu told his rural audiences Modi was unreliable and would soon be ousted from the state with a “not found suitable” tag. “Modi fooled the entire country. He promised five crore jobs for the youth, but none came. There has been no investment. No new factory. Kanpur’s factories are yet be restarted. In Lalganj, the rail coach factory started because of Sonia Gandhi, but it was delayed because Mayawati refused to give land,” Lalu said.
 
 Lalu made fun of Modi’s raincoat barb against former PM Manmohan Singh. “UP mein pair khiska to Modi ka pressure badh raha hai. Bada kharab aadat hai Modi ka. Tum kiska kiska bathroom mein gaya hai? Aur Manmohan ko dekha to kya dekha. Kaisa durbhagya hai ki aisa PM ban gaya. (Modi is losing ground in UP and his BP has risen. He has a bad habit of peeping into bathrooms. Who else’s bathrooms has he peeped into? It is unfortunate such a man became our PM).”
 
 Lalu, however, avoided going to constituencies where the SP and the Congress are engaged in “friendly” fights.
 
