Tiruvarur: The Mannarkudi police registered a case against food minister R   and assistant public relation officer (APRO) at the government secretariat in Chennai Ramakrishnan on charges of cheating and threatening a real estate owner here on Saturday. The case was registered after the Supreme Court directed the state government to take action on the complaint against the minister and report by May 8. Kamaraj, the AIADMK MLA of Nannilam assembly constituency in Tiruvarur district, was booked for cheating SVS Kumar, a real estate businessman from Needamangalam in Tiruvarur district, of Rs 30 lakh. The police included APRO Ramakrishnan, said to be a close relative of the minister, as the prime accused in the case. 

 According to the complaint, Kumar had developed contacts with Kamaraj through Ramakrishnan a few years ago and had sought the minister’s help to vacate the tenant in his house at Mylapore, Chennai. He said that the minister and APRO demanded Rs 30 lakh to vacate them which Kumar paid. However, when the duo failed to honour their commitment even after days, he asked them to either vacate the tenant or return the money. Kumar alleged that the minister and APRO refused to return the money and instead threatened him with dire consequences. 
 
 Kumar took the matter to the Madras high court and filed a case against the duo after the Mannarkudi police failed to take any action on his complaint filed in March 2015. The court ordered Kumar to appear before the deputy superintendent of police Mannarkudi for the inquiry who would take action as per the law. However, he appealed to the Supreme Court against the high court order asking him to appear before the police. The apex court directed the TN government to submit a report on the action taken on the complaint on May 8. 
 
 It was in this context that the police registered a case against the minister and the APRO. When contacted, DSP N Natarajan denied there was a case registered against the minister. However, higher officials in the police department confirmed that the FIR was indeed filed. 
 
 
