Chandigarh: Having being born in an Army family, golf was not the first choice for one of country’s top women player, Saaniya Sharma. Interestingly, being a good academic student during her school life, she wanted to become a marine biologist. But, life had something else planned for her. “It was my father who introduced me to the game. He was not a professional one but played socially. I was more into academics and wanted to become a marine biologist and also had given all the engineering exams. But, after my 12th, I came to Chandigarh and I started playing golf per se. After that, my dad wanted me to train under a proper coach and that’s when I joined Jesse sir.” “I have learned a lot from him and he is a fantastic coach. It is because of him that I have come so far,” she added. In between, Saaniya was also coached by Gary Gilchrist (USA) IN 2-2015 for a month. Saaniya recently participated in the final round of the eighth leg of the Women’s Professional Golf Tour finished T-4. “Well it was a good tournament but I think I could have done better. Nevertheless, I am looking forward to upcoming tournaments and hope to give my best.” When asked about her first tournament, Saaniya says, “I was 17-year-old and it was a national level amateur tournament in Madras in August 2003. I remember I won a lot of prizes there. It was then I decided to take up golf as a career. I was pretty fascinated after being covered in the media,” she fondly remembers. Sports not just bring out the best in you or entertain you but a sportsperson learns a lot of things form the game and Saaniya concurs on the same. “Golf is close to my life. It has taught me a lot of things. It has changed me as a person overall. It has changed my perspective in life, the way I approach things now. With all the travelling required, my horizons have broadened over the years. Golf has had a major impact on me as a person.” Never give up There is a time in life of a sportsperson when he/she has a bad phase but they cannot let that dampen their spirits and their ambition. “There was a time in my career when I was not physically fit to play the game but I continued playing, which now I think was my silly mistake. My bad phase lasted for three years (2012-15) where I kept playing various tournaments with injuries and after each tournament I used to come back home and cry because I didn’t want to stop playing. “You cannot let these things dominate you. It’s the worst thing for any human being. Whenever I don’t perform well in a tournament, I sit back, relax and calm myself and get ready for the next one.” Golf is a rich man’s game. However, Saaniya hopes players from all backgrounds come and play the sport. “It is expensive and I am not going to deny it. It’s just that the equipment’s are expensive. It’s not that poor people cannot play golf. There have been so many kids, who have done well and do not come from a rich background. A pair of club ion usually costs 80 grand (Rs 80,000). Then, there is travelling and apparel cost, which in real sense makes the sport expensive. But, it has become more accessible to the general public now. Golf needs sponsors Adding more to it, the 30-year-old professional golfer says, “Golf needs more sponsors. Golf as a game doesn’t have the visibility. The common people do not know about the game. It’s sad to see a country with population over a billion lacks knowledge about this game. We should increase this number. Only then sponsors will come forward. These kind of things affects me also as a player. What happens is, I focus more on my administrative part rather than my game when I go outside for a tournament. I look for cheap ways of travelling, reasonable accommodation or wherever I can save money so to say. The expenditures are expensive.” Saaniya is also a coach at the Chandigarh Golf Association (CGA) and is also planning to coach at the Panchkula golf club. When asked why the number of girls taking up this sport is low, she contradicts and says, “There are a lot many girls who are taking up the sport. We just need to encourage them more. They are very enthusiastic and they are not here for fun but to make golf as their career. I personally think, the future is bright. In coming years, there will lot of girls taking up this sport. Last month, Saaniya after she was tied-47th in Category 9b (outside the top-30 bracket) qualified for the Ladies European Tour (LET). Asked about her experience she recollects, “When we went there we were confident. I was personally disappointed with my performance on the last day. I had certain issues that I was dealing with but despite that I performed when I needed to. I know given the right opportunities and playing the right tournaments would prove very fruitful for me this year.” When asked about her bucket list, she says, “I have just taken the first step. My bucket list is actually a huge well. This is just the beginning. The good part about this game is that it does not come with age. Of course you have to maintain some level of fitness and be mentally strong but age is never a factor, that’s why I think I have a long way to go.” For this Chandigarh based golfer, golf is as close to life as one can get.