New Delhi: BJP on Sunday announced its first list of 160 candidates out of 272 wards for the upcoming municipal elections. Standing firm on its decision, the party has not given tickets to any sitting councillor. Those given tickets include state unit office bearers, including district presidents, former councillors, MLA candidates, relatives of party workers, apart from four Muslim candidates.

 Five seats — Pratap Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Kalkaji, GTB Nagar and Rajendra Nagar — have been given to SAD (Badal) as part of seat-sharing arrangement. Though this time SAD (Badal) have got five seats instead of seven, party workers are upset as the areas are BJP strongholds. The Paharganj seat has been given to Lok Janshakti Party, but the candidate will contest on the BJP symbol.
 
 In the first list, 58 candidates have been announced for south corporation, 35 for east Delhi and 67 for the north civic body. Sources said the complete list will be released by late at night.
 
 The four Muslim candidates are Kuwar Rafi from Zakir Nagar, Sartaj Ahmed from Chauhan Banger, Sabra Malik from Mustafabad and Famudin Safi from Delhi Gate.
 
 Earlier, senior BJP members had said that district presidents wouldn’t be given tickets as they have a crucial role in planning election campaigns. However, the party has fielded district presidents Santosh Pal (Laxmi Nagar), Parvesh Sharma (Ram Nagar) and Mithilesh Pandey (Subhash Mohalla).
 
 Other office bearers given tickets include Najafgarh general secretary Harish Harjai (Hastsal) and a district vice-president Himanshi Pandey. The wives and relatives of some district and mandal office bearers are also a part of the first list of candidates.
 
 Sources said party workers are upset at office bearers and their relatives being given tickets as they were supposed to monitor the campaigns of other candidates.
 
 Kamaljeet Sehrawat, former president of Delhi BJP women’s wing, has been given the Dwarka-B seat, while former state unit vice-president Shikha Rai will contest from Greater Kailash. Vijay Bhagat has got a ticket for Swami Sarwanand Colony and Kiran Vaidya for Mayur Vihar-I. All four contested assembly elections in 2008, 2013 and 2015.
 
 Relatives of former councillors Sarita Jindal, Mamta Dekha and Neema Bhagat have also been given tickets. Ravi Captain, son of former MLA Vasudev Captain, also features in the list. Around 16 Poorvanchalis, the community BJP is trying to connect with, are also a part of the first list. Members of Poorvanchal Morcha hope to get more tickets in the final list.
 
