BHUPALAPALLY/ HYDERABAD: The father of an inspector of police has emerged as the prime accused in the sensational deer poaching case in Jayshankar-Bhupalapally district. The prime accused, identified as Naluvala Sathyanarayana, reportedly popular known as `Shikari Sathyam', also surrendered to the police what was described as a `sporting rifle', a 30-06 high velocity gun along with 150 cartridges.

 Sathyanarayana is a former employee of the   and possesses a valid licence for the gun, the police said. His son is an inspector with the Telangana State police. Two other accused, Md   and  , were produced before the additional judicial magistrate of First Class at Manthani around 4.30 a.m.on Saturday. A fourth accused, Md Akbar Khan, said to be the husband of a TRS ZPTC from Mahdevpur, is absconding, the police informed the judge.
 
 Asked about the progress in the case, principal chief conservator of forests PK Jha told STOI on Saturday that an immediate inquiry has been ordered into the entire episode and the forest department's vigilance chief Swargam Srinivas was scheduled to visit the district for a first hand investigation into the poaching and the events that followed. The police filed cases aga inst the four accused under various sections of the Arms Act in conjunction with provisions of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, the forest department that has registered a case under various sections of the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972, is yet to make its case against the accused in a court.
 
 Sathyaranarayana is a resident of Centenary Colony of Ramnagar mandal in Peddapally district while Khaleemulla and Asrar are automobile mechanics living in Mahadevpur village.
 
 Making the details of the poaching case provided by both the police and forest department officials extremely suspect is the fact that two of the accused were poaching wildlife for a long time now with none from the police or forest department ever being wise about it. In its remand request, the police informed the court: “The A-4 (Md Akbar Khan) is a friend of A-1 (Sathyanarayana) and they sued to go for hunting together frequently.“
 
 Earlier in the day, BJP floor leader in the   G Kishan Reddy met with director general of police Anurag Sharma as well as PK Jha and demanded to know why no attempt to murder case was booked against any of the accused when forest department staff were threatened with a gun when the poachers were first confronted on Sunday night.
 
 “The entire thing looks like attempts are being made to save some VVIP political families in Telangana,“ Kishan Reddy said alluding to the whispers doing the rounds in the forest and police departments of high level political intervention to ensure that the case is watered down and the some of the real culprits manage to escape any punishment.
 
