HYDERABAD: Days after the death of  , strong reactions are pouring in from across the world, with several Indian American organisations demanding that speedy justice be delivered to the victims of the  .

 Members of the South Asian Americans Leading Together (SAALT), a national advocacy organisation in the US, said in a statement that though disturbed by incident, they are by no means surprised. “This incident is the latest in a rising tide of hate violence against South Asian, Muslim, Sikh, Hindu, Middle Eastern and Arab communities, electrified by the President’s ( ) anti-immigrant policies,” said Suman Raghunathan, executive director of SAALT. 
 
 The group claimed it documented over 200 incidents of “hate violence” against South Asian communities during the 2016 elections. 
 
 Demanding that the   protect the Indian American community, Raj Goyle, former Kansas state representative and co-founder of the Indian American Impact Project, a social group, said: “It is unfortunate that members of a hard working community who are leading productive lives and adding value to their communities are unnecessarily being targeted. We condemn this shooting to the fullest and call on law enforcement to investigate this hate crime in a thorough and expedient manner.” 
 
 The gunman, US Navy veteran Adam Purinton, had fired at two Indian men — Srinivas and Alok Madasani — in a bar in Olathe, Kansas. 
 
 Reactions also poured in from bar owners. In a statement, the   (SABA) said there has been a rise in hate crime and violence in the US. “In response to the increasing vitriol towards our communities, our government must be our first line of defence. Governments must protect the rights of minorities and ensure the safety of all its citizens,” said Vichal Kumar, president of SABA. 
 
 Other groups such as Indian Friends of Atlanta, Union of International Associations, United Sikhs, Telugu Association of Greater Kansas City, South Asians for America and Asian Americans Advancing Justice - Los Angeles were among the many who condemned the incident and demanded justice for Kuchibhotla’s family. 
 
 Joining them were individual members from Telugu families living in the US for decades. They claimed that the newer immigrants from India are a worried lot. 
 
 “There is a sense of panic among them as these are young people and populate public spaces that attract all types of people. They are scared of being victimised by angry white people or even Americans of any stripe that believe immigrants or brown people steal their jobs or get welfare benefits,” said Dinesh Sastry, whose family has roots here. 
 
