JAIPUR: Concerned over the rising number of conflicts at toll booths, the state government will issue directions to toll booth workers and take action against whom complaints are received. 

 “Complaints about fights at the toll booths are frequently received. There are several instances when the toll booth attendants have misbehaved or even fought with public representatives, including MLAs. 
 
 A meeting will be held with the authorities of the   (NHAI), Road Infrastructure Development Company of Rajasthan (RIDCOR) and Road Development and Construction Corporation Ltd (RSRDC), who manage the toll booths and they would be warned about action against workers who are found to be involved in fights,’’   said in the   on Thursday. He said that directives will also be issued regarding uniforms for the toll booth workers.
 
 Khan was replying to queries raised by BJP MLA Master   about toll booths between Tijara and Bhiwadi. “Those living in a periphery of 20 kms can move around by paying only Rs 300 every month,’’ he said. The minister said that there were two toll booths on a 85-km stretch – one at 40 km and one at 45 km. Yadav contested the claim saying that though the second toll booth was claimed to be located at a distance of 40 km, it was only 28 kilometre away.
 
 Another BJP MLA Shankar Singh Rajpurohit demanded that the state government on the lines of Gujarat, stop collecting toll tax from small and private vehicles. Replying to that, the minister said decision about it would be taken at the ministry level.
 
 Being cornered by their own MLAs over farmers not getting the right price for their produce due to bumper production in the state, the state government, during the question hour, also assured the house of measures to ensure that garlic producers get remunerative prices for their crop. 
 
 Replying to a demand for amendment in rules to bring garlic under the ambit of minimum support price (MSP), state agriculture minister   said state will send a proposal to the Centre to purchase garlic under Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) to ensure that farmers get good value for the produce. He also announced setting up of a garlic export centre. ``The state is likely to produce 8.43 lakh metric tonnes of garlic this year. We will set up a garlic export centre combining four top garlic producing districts so that farmers get good value," Saini said. 
 
