Their sizzling chemistry on screen is responsible for ratings of a television show shooting up, however television’s onscreen couples’ equation off screen is a different story altogether. Some of them can’t stand each other, but it’s commendable that they don’t let their personal differences reflect in their professional lives. BT gives you a round-up of seven such popular jodis on TV who put up a lovey-dovey act for their shows, but in reality have a long list of grievances against the each other. Read on...

 
 
 
 
 In showbiz, you never know when friendships go from being ‘best buddies’ to actually being’ ‘just co-actors’. Something similar happened between Sidharth and Rashami. There were rumours of the pair being ‘more than just friends’ when they started shooting for the show in December. Rashami admitted that they bonded just perfect. But within a few months, the friendship went kaput. The two started having problems and there were talks of both not seeing eye-to-eye on anything. Also, recently, the two again had a spat on the sets, which confirmed rumours of their differences. The grapevine insists that Sidharth’s closeness to the third lead of the show, Jasmin Bhasin, has not gone down well with the actress. “Rashami feels sidelined at times,” says a source on condition of anonymity. While both prefer to keep it ‘strictly professional’ kudos to the two actors for not letting their personal differences come in the way of their profession. 
 
 
 
 
 
 With women getting meatier roles on TV, some amount of insecurity is bound to creep up on the male co-actor. While Kritika and Gaurav are heating up the small screen with their intimate scenes on the show, off screen Gaurav maintains a distance from his co-star. Sources confirmed that the actor reportedly feels ‘sidelined’ and ‘not promoted enough’ as compared to the actress. He allegedly throws tantrums arguing that Kritika is paid better, gets weekly-offs, even though the responsibility of the show faring well in the ratings game is on both actors.
 
 
 
 
 
 Niti in an interview with us recently, admitted that since her friendship with  , the antagonist in the show, went sour, Param also maintained a distance. The latter admits, “We are cordial with each other and that’s what is in the best interest of the show.” Both actors keep a safe distance and are formal with each other. There have also been reports of Niti not getting along with her earlier show (Kaisi Yeh Yaariyan) co-actor Paarth Samthaan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 These two have been sharing cold vibes ever since the show started a year back. While Sandeep prefers to be a private person and believes that he is not here to make friends, Neha admitted earlier that they are two strong individuals, and would prefer to keep their interaction strictly professional. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ratan Rajput and Ayaz Ahmed who play Santoshi and Dhairya in the show, do not talk to each other beyond work. Sources from the set reveal that the two had a big fight recently, after which they both decided to maintain a professional relationship. While the real reasons of their fight is not known, a source close to the actress says, “Both are strong individuals and they don’t wish to bond.
 
 
 
 
 
 The cold war between lead actors Karan and Divyanka continues in this three-year long soap. While both may appear to be cool with each other (with Karan and his wife Ankita attending Divyanka’s wedding or making an appearance on 'Nach Baliye' to motivate Divyanka and Vivek Dahiya), the truth, it’s been reported, is that they can’t see eye-to-eye in real life. But no one’s complaining as the show continues to rake in the moolah. 
 
 
