Strokes of the black pencil sweep across white paper as lines success fully mirror the curved arches of the Rumi Dar waza, straights of the red stone of   and the peach of the Ambedkar Park to present the viewers Lucknow decoded through sketches.

 As one examines one page after another, these pencil strokes unravel a desire to re explore Lucknow with a sketchpad in hand and a new vision in the mind--generated out of curiosity from these sketches.
 
 This is how architect   Varshney's book `Shaam-e-Awadh' has created Lucknow of then and now on paper--through her sketches.
 
 The book is a collection of around 85 black and white pencil sketches shaped, groomed and drawn over a period of 30 years.They see the Lucknow of yore and present with all its organic changes in the book that is perhaps the first of its kind.
 
 With minimal written word, the book forces one to look at Lucknow not just through  's eye and prop, but in a manner different from how photography has captured the city's essence over hundreds of years.
 
 “I began sketching the city in my student days at architecture college.We would take our cycles and later moped to parts of old Lucknow and spent hours gazing at and re-creating the architecture of the city on paper. Then I start ed sketching not just buildings but also scenes from the city--its narrow alleys and markets, its food and culture--creating a stock of art that attracted many,“ says Varshney.
 
 Also the convener of the Lucknow chapter of INTACH (Indian National Trust for Art and  ), Varshney is a history enthusiast and has now begun drawing out Varanasi on paper.
 
 Shaam-e-Awadh captures the viewer's attention because it has recreated personal relics curated over time.
 
 “As a group of friends, we would visit   for lassi and kachaudi. During one such trip, I sketched a building and a scene from the market place, identifying its key element that stood out. Many parts of the same places sketched back then have now seen restoration and even renovation, but the es sence has remained. That makes people long for another visit to the same place with a renewed perspective,“ adds the artist and author.
 
 From ancient Lucknow of the myths and history to its quality of life through arts and crafts and food, to new strides in Lucknow through its urban spaces and parks and malls, the visual journey takes the reader and viewer on a complete ride through old times and new--all in black and white.
 
