KOCHI: In a bid to improve the   who are staying alone, IG P   on Saturday announced that the   will be revamped to   in areas where they reside in large numbers. Police department has started a survey to prepare a list of easy targets like the elderly who stay alone. 

 He was speaking at City Conclave, a platform for mass public interaction at  , attended by more than 1,000 people from across the city.
 
 New methods for effective policing were announced in the meet attended by representatives of around 840 residents' associations. Senior police officers said meetings with residents' associations will be held every month in the respective police stations to identify the various issues faced by them. 
 
 Vijayan said that a district-level meet of senior police officers will also be held regularly to monitor the progress of the programme. "Apart from identifying key issues in a meet, respective police officials will brief about the action taken on these issues in the follow-up meeting," he said.
 
 A survey by the police on the security in city highrises revealed that about 40% of apartments located within the city are vulnerable to organized criminal activities. Most of the apartment complexes in Kochi, especially those owned by NRIs are maintained by caretakers, who are often found misusing it. Police are planning to keep vigil on such apartments with help resident's associations, officials said. 
 
 Apart from resident's associations, representatives of merchants associations, elected councillors, auto-taxi union representatives, private security agencies, private bus operators and workers' representatives along with representatives of various clubs took part in the conclave. Representatives from Childline and other volunteer organizations also participated in the event.
 
 An initiative to check drug peddling near schools is being planned with help from the social justice department. Installation of more than 400 CCTV cameras in and around Kochi is on the anvil and a sum of Rs one crore has already been sanctioned for the purpose.
 
