PUNE: India Meteorological Department’s latest El Nino   may just clinch its argument in favour of a normal   this year. Though the forecast indicates likelihood of weak   conditions during August and September this year, the probability of a positive Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) has gone up by several notches in the recent forecast.

 Unlike El Nino, which is an abnormal warming of equatorial Pacific Ocean and believed to adversely impact the southwest monsoon in India, the IOD is defined by the difference in the sea surface temperatures between the two equatorial regions of the Indian Ocean -- the western end near the Arabian Sea and the eastern one off Indonesia. Positive IOD conditions are likely to be favourable for an above normal monsoon.
 
  scientists said that the recent forecast indicates an increasing probability (over 40%-50%) of a positive IOD during most of the forecasted season, including monsoon.
 
 D S Pai, head, climate prediction, climate research division, IMD, Pune, said that there is a good probability of El Nino conditions developing in the second half of the year, that is, from August/ September onwards. “However, what may work in favour of the Indian monsoon are the increasing chances of a positive IOD, which forecasts in March had indicated to be more on the neutral side during monsoon,” said Pai.
 
 The latest El Nino forecast by IMD suggests high (over 55%) probability of current El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) neutral conditions to continue till July, 2017. Thereafter, there is increasing probability (over 50%) of El Nino conditions developing over the equatorial Pacific. However, the probability forecast suggests that the prevailing neutral IOD conditions are likely to turn to positive IOD conditions for most of the forecasted seasons, including the monsoon.
 
 Pai said that IOD does not directly interact with the southwest monsoon but tends to reduce the impact of El Nino on monsoon. “In addition, the forecast indicates weak El Nino condition will begin to develop during the latter part of the season, when the sea surface temperature value will be little over the threshold neutral value of 0.5°C. Conversely, in 2015, this value was over 1°C during monsoon,” said Pai.
 
 A K Sahai, head, climate research and services, IMD, Pune, however, said that forecasts in March and April come with a caveat: conditions could change in subsequent forecasts as the spring season presents a predictability barrier for El Nino. “The recent forecast, however, suggests that though the chances of El Nino has increased, chances of a positive IOD has increased too, which may work out in favour of the Indian monsoon this year,” said Sahai.
 
