Nagpur: In an unusual verdict, the Nagpur Family Court accused a man of committing “economic abuse” against his wife and two daughters by forcing them to evict their residence at Narendra Nagar by selling it. It also asked him to pay Rs19.60 lakh to her towards share in sale of the house along with Rs5,000 towards litigation costs. “The dream of their own house has been shattered by husband’s conduct. His move certainly falls within ambit of “economic abuse” defined in Section 3 (IV) of ‘Protection of Women from Domestic Violence (DV) Act, 2005’. He deprived the wife from her economic and financial resources and house property,” judge Subhash Kafre ruled, while partly allowing wife’s plea, seven years after it was filed. While ruling in wife’s favour, the court noted that she was certainly aggrieved by disposal of house unilaterally by him without her consent and, therefore, her claim for half of sale proceeds is justified under the head of “monetary reliefs and compensation” as per provisions of Sections 20 and 22 of DV Act. “The husband placed some documents to indicate that he spent money for daughters’ education, but it was his legal responsibility. He shouldn’t have ignored sharing of equal responsibility by the wife, who is in government service and earns more than him. She toiled hard for family’s welfare and children’s well-being. She shelled out more for household expenses and rearing of the children. In this way, she contributed for purchase of plot and house construction,” the judge stated. Their marriage was solemnized on April 4, 1989 in city and two daughters were born out of wedlock. Within four years, the couple saved purchased a plot in 1993 and constructed a two-bedroom house there in 1995. After staying together for 15 years, the husband left family in 2010 and started residing with other woman. Prior to that, he executed agreement of sale of their house for Rs39.21 lakh. As no progress was made thereafter, the purchaser filed a civil suit in the court which asked the wife and daughters to vacate their dream home. She then knocked the judiciary’s doors in 2010 for restraining third party from evicting them and demanded half the share from total money received from the sale. She claimed that the respondent was residing with another woman and had no love or affection towards their daughters. He also ignored their education needs and earlier maintained illicit relations with another woman, who died in a road accident in a drunken condition. Denying all allegations, the husband claimed that he already given Rs20 lakh to wife towards sale proceedings, but failed to produce income tax returns receipts and bank accounts statement. The court pointed out that wife’s name was shown as co-borrower in one of loan documents and she also submitted her office certificate for the loan proposal in husband’s name. “She contributed for purchase of plot and construction. She has also contributed for the household expenses and rearing of children and restrained herself from taking hosing loan, as husband had taken it. All these facts would show that she was always there as a pillar of strength with her life partner to shoulder the financial responsibility,” the court stated.