RAMPUR: A girl, whose half-burnt body was said to have been found at a village under   here has turned up alive and well. After the body was found, police had filed an FIR against the unidentified murderers and had even detained a local youth on the complaint of her father, who in turn had positively identified the body as that of his daughter. Now that the girl has turned up alive and well, police is trying to find out whose body they had found and who the murderers were. 

 The 17-year-old girl had gone missing after she left her home at Maswasi village in Swar a fortnight ago, following which the father had lodged a complaint with the police. Investigators had in turn picked up a local youth for questioning. On Wednesday, the half-burnt body of a girl was found near the village. The  's father had identified the body as that of his daughter. The family then took the body and conducted the last rites.
 
 On Friday, the girl's brother-in-law was returning to Moradabad after the funeral when he happened to see the missing girl at   near Moradabad. Shocked, he immediately rushed to her and confirmed that she was his relative. He then brought her back home.
 
 "The brother-in-law seems to have found the missing girl by accident near a bus stop at Mundha Pande and informed us after he brought her back. The parents had told us that the girl was suffering from mental illness and often left the house without informing them. We tried to question the girl about her whereabouts for the past fortnight, but she was not of sound mind," said Swar circle officer Rahul Kumar.
 
 The police, meanwhile, have also been informed by doctors that while the missing girl was a minor, the girl whose body was found was between 19 and 20 years of age. Police have once again started investigations about the unidentified body and who the actual murderers are.
 
 "Now it is a challenge for us to find who killed and burnt the girl," said Kumar. Investigators have returned to the spot near the village where the body had been found and are questioning residents within a 100-metre radius of the crime scene, officials said.
 
 
