HYDERABAD: To decongest core areas of the city and ensure planned growth,   (TDA) suggested   (HMDA) develop   townships and regional townships around the Hyderabad metropolitan region. With the Union budget fillip to affordable housing, the blueprint mirrors a ground reality when a burgeoning capital would growth in the outskirts.

 The association also asked the state government to earmark 100 acres for hospitals, education and sports hubs in each of the satellite townships so that residents need not travel to city for facilities.
 
 The suggestions were made recently by TDA to chief minister   and also to HMDA in view of city's projected growth in next 25 years. It is expected that by 2041, Hyderabad's population would touch 2 crore.
 
 The association said, satellite townships that can cater to a population of 10 lakh in next few years, should be planned in each of four directions from the city. It proposed Medchal-Shamirpet township on northern side, Shamshabad on the southern front, Pocharam to the east and Muthangi on the west. It also suggested another special IT zone at Adibhatla. Besides, regional townships have been suggested for every 1.5 lakh population at Bibinagar, Ibrahimpatnam, Hayathnagar, Toopran, Shankarpally, Chevella, Shadnagar and Narsapur. It has been recommended to further develop the area from Manchirevula to Kollur and Patighanpur in the western part of the city as a logical extension of Cyberabad.
 
 "The population density of core city is 10,500 people per square km. And this will become like Gurgaon, which has 16,500 people per sq/km. This will choke the city. Well-planned satellite townships are the need of the hour," GV Rao, president of Telangana Developers Association told TOI.
 
 The association said since migration to the city is estimated to be around three lakh a year, satellite townships are ideal for development. 
 
 "We suggested that residential area (land use) be increased from proposed 22% to 35%. As of now, residential area is 14% in urban and 8% in peri-urban area, totalling 22%. Due to development of   (ORR) and increased accessibility, the government should increase residential areas by reducing the conservation zone from the existing 42%," said TDA secretary M Srinivas Goud. The association also suggested cluster and infrastructure development. 
 
 
