RANCHI:   on Monday resorted to   and used water canons to disperse hundreds of candidates who gathered outside the   (JPSC) office to   the alleged irregularities while conducting the preliminary test of the sixth civil service examination.

 Several students were arrested and taken to camp jail at Khel Gaon, from where they were later released on personal bond. More than 20 people were injured in the incident and was taken to a local hospital. Former HRD minister Bandhu Tirkey, who participated in the protest, was also injured.
 
 This came after candidates, under the banner of Johar Jharkhand, protested against alleged irregularities by JPSC while conducting the preliminary test of sixth civil services examination. The candidates also demanded removal of the mandatory subject combination pattern introduced for teachers eligibility test (TET) examination. The agitators, mostly tribals, blocked roads and disrupted traffic movement on circular road, one of the main thoroughfares, for more than four hours. 
 
 Tirkey said the agitating students found the commission responsible for creating a situation where deserving candidates of reserved groups have been debarred from appearing in the main examination. “We are not demanding reservation in jobs but an opportunity to appear in the main examination,” Tirkey said. 
 
 The candidates also demanded that the commission release details of cut off marks. “If a candidate of a reserved category has scored more than 208 marks, he or she must be included in the general category so that the benefits of reservation reach those who deserve it,” Tirkey said, adding that OBC (Other Backward Classes) candidates obtaining 208 marks should be declared selected for the next level of examination.
 
 The unsuccessful candidates of JPSC had earlier protested on March 19 and had given an ultimatum to the commission for correcting the irregularities by March 25. The protesters argued that the commission has proven to be a big failure in the state, as it has conducted only 6 out of the 16 examinations it should have conducted during the past 17 years of state formation.
 
 “Till date, no local candidate has reached the level of SDO just because of JPSC’s failure in conducting free and fair examination in a time bound manner,” one of the protesters Rajesh Munda, who was injured in the lathicharge., said. 
 
 
