Panaji: No board exists to indicate that the 2.16 lakh sqm of rocky land is an industrial estate. The area bears a deserted look and no motorable road connects the 60 plots that chief minister Manohar Parrikar says were “developed” at Panchawadi industrial estate. Despite its lackadaisical attitude, Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) finds it justifiable to pocket Rs 1.09 crore for 2017-18 from the plot allottees. Responding to a question by Congress MLA Subhash Shirodkar, Parrikar said a total of 60 industrial plots had been developed and 32 industrial plots had already been allotted to entrepreneurs at Panchawadi industrial estate. The chief minister had also said that 640 jobs would be created at the industrial estate. But when TOI visited the site, not only was no industrial activity visible, there was no infrastructure on ground to indicate that the plots have been developed. Parrikar holds the industry portfolio. “Work has been stalled for quite some time,” Panchawadi sarpanch Vishant Gaonkar said. “If factories start, at least our youth will get jobs,” he added. GIDC had advertised for plots at Panchawadi industrial estate in May 2015, after which the plots were sanctioned in June 2015. Though the allotment letters were handed over to entrepreneurs, in September 2016, GIDC revised the cost for plots and fixed the rate at Rs 1,375 per sqm. Assuming that each company applied for 1,000 sqm of land, the cost of the land works out to Rs 13.75 lakh per plot. Entrepreneurs are required to pay 10%, or Rs 1.37 lakh upfront when taking allotment of the industrial plot. This works out to Rs 12.38 lakh that each entrepreneur has to pay in six equated installments. Add to this, GIDC charges 11% interest on the Rs 12.38 lakh under the double decline method. In effect, an entrepreneur is made to pay Rs 3.42 lakh per year and if one multiplies this with the 32 lease holders, then GIDC stands to earn Rs 1.09 crore. Despite repeated calls and messages, GIDC chairman Glenn Ticlo refused to respond. Panchawadi industrial estate was earmarked for micro and small units, but five years after then industries minister Mahadev Naik said that work had begun, the land remains barren and undeveloped. In the intervening years, business plans have become redundant, monetary losses have accumulated, economic growth has been hampered and no jobs have been created.