CHANDIGARH: A technological revolution is taking place inside the courtrooms, and in the corridors, of Chandigarh District  , Sector 43. From CCTV cameras to LCD screens, electronics installed at the complex this year are making life easier for litigants.

 Directions issued by the   in March this year, asking all lower courts to install CCTV cameras inside courtrooms triggered this change. It’s not just technology that has improved. The court complex now also has infrastructure for disabled persons, from railings along corridors to tactile paving (a walkway for the blind). 
 
 The president of Chandigarh District Bar Association, Ravinder Bassi, said the new measures, which started showing in June this year, have been a “big change”. “The installation of CCTV cameras inside courtrooms is good,” he said. “Also, the judiciary is now becoming friendly for disabled people.”
 
 As part of the technological upgrades, 62 cameras have been installed inside the 32 courtrooms at the complex — two inside each court. While one camera is installed at the entry gate, the other is installed behind the judge’s seat.
 
 This, according to sources at the complex, will help in bringing about transparency. However, the CCTV cameras can only record video and do not record audio. Besides, for getting access to the footage, one has to approach a higher court for permission.
 
 Apart from cameras, courtrooms are now also equipped with LCD screens to facilitate video conferencing. This is being done to save time and resources. This facility is already being used in many cases. But, with each court getting an LCD screen, an accused would not have to be necessarily brought to court for a hearing and could presented through video conferencing from jail. This will help in the trial of people who could escape from police custody.
 
 For litigants, courtrooms have now been equipped with speakers, so that they get to know when their case is up for hearing. This will help in avoiding instances where litigants are called out, but they don’t hear their name.
 
 Friendly for disabled people
 
 The installation of tactile paving, a walkway meant for the blind, and railing along walls have meant that it is easier for disabled people to move around the court complex. While a ramp already existed inside the complex, the railing and tactile paving were installed this year.
 
 An advocate who practices at the complex,  , said he earlier saw that blind people would face difficulty in moving around. “But this has changed their situation a lot. These changes are progressive and inclusive,”   said.
 
 Another advocate, Manjit Kaur, said the introduction of technology may just pace up the judicial process, “which is painstakingly slow in our country”. “At least, this is a start,” Kaur said
 
