NAGPUR: A 30-year-old man obsessed with his   was   to death on Tuesday night in   by the woman’s father and elder brother in Kunjilalpeth under   

 The victim, who had the woman’s name tattooed on his chest, had been harassing her even after she got married to another man. A group of five persons, including father of the woman and her elder brother, attacked the victim Pankaj Patil and his two friends, who too sustained injuries, while the latter were passing on a bike near the home of the woman when the naming ceremony of her child was going on.
 
 Ajni police have registered the offence under Section 302 of IPC against main accused Manohar Sukhdev (father), Bunty (brother), Nayan Imalkar, Amol Shende and Yogesh. Cops have arrested Sukhdev and Imalkar but others are still at large.
 
 Sources close to Patil’s family told TOI that Pankaj and Bunty, residing in the same vicinity, earlier were good friends. Unknown to Bunty, Pankaj had a romantic relationship with the woman for five years. Their friendship broke when Bunty, who worked at a saoji eatery, came to know of Pankaj’s relationship with his sister. He forced the two to end their relationship and got his sister to marry another man from Amravati around a year and half ago.
 
 “Pankaj, an auto-rickshaw driver, remained obsessed with the woman and used to harass her, even threatening to kill her. Fed up by this she had approached Ajni police and registered an offence against Pankaj on June 17 last year. We had taken preventive action against him,” said PI SS Sankhe of Ajni.
 
 The woman had a baby boy some time back and on Tuesday Bunty had arranged naming ceremony for his nephew at his place where the woman’s husband was present too. While the man was returning to Amravati, Pankaj stopped his car and broke its windshield. The woman’s husband informed Bunty about this.
 
 Meanwhile, Pankaj his two friends Palash Verma and Swapnil Patil enjoyed liquor at a neighbour’s terrace. They later came out to buy more liquor but were intercepted by Bunty and others. Swapnil tried to flee but attackers chased him up to second floor of an apartment building. He jumped down from there received injuries in his leg.
 
 Bunty made deep gashes on Pankaj’s chest and in stomach with a knife. Palash received head injuries, police said. Pankaj was taken to GMCH for treatment where he succumbed to the injuries.
 
