Mumbai: Liquor baron Kishore Chhabria-owned Allied Blenders & Distillers ( ) has mandated   and   to manage an   ( ) to raise at least Rs 800 crore by selling 10% stake. India’s third largest distiller is seeking around Rs 9,000-crore — or $1.5-billion — market valuation. The company, which owns Officer’s Choice whisky, is looking to pare debt amassed in recent years to acquire a string of bottling plants.

 “With the impact of alcoholic beverage industry’s negative headlines in the past one year almost behind us, we reckon the time is right for a public listing, especially when stock market sentiments are extremely bullish. We are in the midst of mandatory preparations, which include inducting independent directors on board, to file draft red herring prospectus well before the year-end,” ABD chairman   told TOI. 
 
 The long rumoured public market debut could catapult the liquor industry’s old warhorse, Chhabria, into a stock market billionaire. He controls 95% in the Mumbai-headquartered ABD. The company’s vice-chairman Deepak Roy is credited with transforming Officer’s Choice into the world’s largest selling whisky, and has been allotted 5% sweat equity. ABD is also expected to bring in a third manager, either Axis Capital or ICICI Securities, to help with the IPO process. 
 
 Chhabria is the strongest among the domestic liquor czars who survived the invasion by multinational corporations in recent years. Most Indian distillers have lost ground to become regional players in the world’s largest whisky market. India’s branded liquor consumption is estimated at around 324 million cases, of which whisky alone is about 200 million cases (of 9 litres each).
 
 “The plan is to raise Rs 800-1,000 crore to retire debt, which has shot up to Rs 825 crore in the past few years. The IPO proceeds will also be used to build new premium whisky brands we plan to launch later this year,” Roy said. In the past three years, ABD has spent Rs 474 crore to acquire right bottling units and distillery, moving away from overwhelming dependence on contract production to bring about 42% of the supply in-house. The company is heavily depended on its flagship Officer’s Choice and the new brand introductions are aimed at building a multi-brand approach to growth.
 
 ABD reported Rs 2,289-crore revenue last fiscal, with operating profit estimated at around 9%. The company reported volume sales of 33 million cases behind United Spirits and the local arm of Pernod Ricard. The macro risks, including the impact of GST roll-out, increasing restrictions on liquor trade and the soaring input costs that are cyclical remain sectoral concerns in the near term.
 
 
