NAGPUR: In the wake of sudden indefinite strike by private medical practitioners in city on Thursday, patients, especially those from outstation, were left in the lurch. Patients coming from Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh were particularly inconvenienced by the strike by doctors in support of resident doctors in Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) under the banner of   (IMA). Most patients expressed frustration at the uncertainty, since the agitation is indefinite.
 
 Though most private hospitals were attending to patients requiring emergency medical attention, a handful of them shut the doors on emergency cases as well. Patients coming from interiors of MP complained that their problem has doubled, since they don’t know whether to stay here another day or go back.
 
 CIIMS, which draws a very big number of patients, sent back around 150 patients. Sushma Mehra, who came from Itarsi with a scheduled appointment, was suffering from severe migraine. Mehra said, “It’s simply a waste of time and money. I feel helpless at the moment. No official is ready to say when the strike will end. I don’t know whether to stay here tonight or leave and come later.”
 
 At Wockhardt Hospital, patients said at least one doctor should be present to treat patients who have come long distances. Unaware of the strike,   reached here from Satna (MP) in the afternoon. She said, “Wockhardt was recommended by relatives and doctors in Satna. It is sad that our travel expenses have gone in vain.”
 
 There was some confusion about treating emergency cases too. Authorities at   informed that as per IMA orders, they were asking patients with urgent need for medication to visit Government Hospital or Mayo Hospital. Similarly, Rainbow Medinova Diagnostic Centre turned back around 30 patients. Similarly, OCHRI claimed that it got directives to take only emergency cases after 4pm.
 
 Another patient at Wockhardt, Pushpendra Khateeq from Sagar (MP), who was accompanying his father, who is suffering from a liver disease, said, “I am extremely disappointed with this attitude of doctors. They aren’t considering our case to be critical. My father is having difficulty in passing urine and we don’t want to wait for the condition to aggravate.”
 
 Meanwhile, the effect of mass bunk by residents was visible at both GMCH and IGGMC. Though patients at the casualty were attended to properly, there were no takers for the patients admitted in the ward.
 
 A 24-year-old new recruit of the Army was left waiting for discharge in the ward, as he has to join duties. The man from Bankheda village in Amravati district had fallen from a height after suffering an electric shock. However, his spine and burn injuries are not being attended to at GMCH. “My son has to join by April 4. But with no treatment in last few days, it seems impossible for him to join duty. It will be a big trouble for us,” said the father.
 
 A 37-year-accident patient from Saoner was lying in the ward with fractured legs. He was expecting to undergo surgery on Friday, but the ongoing strike has created a situation of uncertainty. His wife said, “The doctors have not seen him from last few days, only the nurses are attending to him. I just hope the strike ends soon.”
 
 IGMCH somehow managed all emergency cases but most elective surgeries planned for Thursday were put on hold. IGMCH medical superintendent Dr SP Manjrekar told TOI, “Today no cataract operations took place at IGMCH. In general surgery department, several hernia operations were planned but since no one was present at the ward to look after patients, the surgeries are on hold. No operations took place in ENT department for the same reason.”
 
 
