LUCKNOW: In a rude shock to the largest bureaucracy of the country, just two   officers of   from two batches have been able to make it to the   empanelled for the post of secretary in the Government of India. While both the officers are from the 1984 batch, none from the 1985 batch could make the cut.

 Last year also, when the 1983 batch offers were being empanelled, only two -- Rahul Bhatnagar, the present chief secretary, and Rajiv Kapoor were considered ‘fit’. The two officers of the 1984 batch who have been selected this year are Anant Kumar Singh and Durga Shanka Mishra. Both of them are already on the Central deputation.
 
 “This is really shocking and shows as the cadre gets young, the officers’ image does not fit in the government’s   review for promotion,” says a senior functionary of the UP IAS Association on the condition of anonymity. “Their failure to become secretary would also deplete the state’s representation in the Government of India at the top level,” he says. While earlier, the empanelment would be done on the basis of the annual confidential report (ACR), Prime Minister Narendra Modi has introduced the system of 360 degrees appraisal. 
 
 The list of contenders from the 1984 batch included Lalit Verma, Kumar Arvind Singh Dev, Anoop Chandra Pandey, Sanjay Agarwal, SN Shukla and NS Ravi, Deepak Trivedi and PK Mohanty. Pandey at present is principal secretary, finance, while Agarwal is in energy department. While Agarwal had additional charge of Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway during the SP regime, both he and Pandey are in race to be the UP chief secretary.
 
 What is even more shocking is the fact that under the new system of review for the promotion of IAS officers as Union government secretary, no officer from the 1985 was found fit to be empanelled. The names in the list included Prabhat Kumar, the present Meerut commissioner who is also holding charges of the Noida and Greater Noida, RK Tewari, Bhupendra Singh, Shalini Prasad, Mohammed Iftikharuddin, Gurdip Singh and Anita Bhatnagar Jain. 
 
 The department of personnel and training (DoPT) at the Centre recently had the meeting for a 360-degree appraisal of the officers of the two batches. While earlier the promotion to the secretary level was done on the basis of the ACR, now the dossier of officers is also sent to their seniors and other officers they have worked with for their feedback. Names are shortlised after taking all-round appraisal into consideration.
 
