NASHIK: The   is likely to   in villages across the district for the first time after last year's  . 

 The rain in 2016 and the work done under the   by the state government and the villagers have ensured better availability of water, following which there was no need of tankers in the rural areas till February 2017. As part of the jalyukta shivar, check dams and other facilities have been created to store rainwater. 
 
 During the corresponding period last year, the administration had deployed 55 tankers in 182 villages and wadis. The maximum number (13) of tankers was seen in Yeola taluka. A dozen tankers were deployed in Baglan and Sinnar talukas. No tanker has not been deployed for any taluka till now.
 
 "The tankers are the last option in any taluka. Wherever there is need for water currently, departments concerned are taking alternative measures. Like if the source of water in the village has dried up, supply is done from the well of an individual in that village and its owner is paid," resident deputy collector   said.
 
 The officer said the same strategy was being implemented for more that five years. But last year's problem was that were no source of water in and around villages and tankers had to be arranged.
 
 "There are nine steps that need to be taken before starting the tanker service. Among these measures are repair of water sources and systems, strengthening of the sources and laying of temporary supply schemes. Tankers roll out when these systems fail," Khedkar said.
 
 Based on groundwater level survey carried out by the Groundwater Surveillance and Development Agency (GSDA) in October last year, the administration has earmarked 249 villages and 363 hamlets where intervention is need to meet the water requirements.
 
 The major actions include providing water from 152 individual wells in 76 villages across various talukas of the district. Among these wells are 21 at various hamlets in Sinnar and 20 in Malegaon. 
 
  "In the worst condition, we may deploy 62 tankers for the villagers. But these numbers are tentative and figures may change as per the ground reality," Khedkar said.
 
