PUNE:   were the order of the day at the   as services for obtaining   shifted to a   — from sarathi.nic.in to parivahan.gov.in (sarathi 4.0) — on Tuesday. 

 Not just people with appointments, even RTO officials had a harrowing time due to the system change. They were seen grappling with the   and outdated workstations.
 
 A Bachelor of Commerce student with learner’s licence test appointment on Tuesday said, “Since I had applied through an agent, he uploaded the documents only today. But the system is too slow. I have been waiting in the queue for the past one hour and it is hardly moving.”
 
 A homemaker from Khadki, who had come for her learner’s licence appointment, said, “It has taken me a long time to get the documents uploaded. The RTO doesn’t even have a single window to upload the documents. How will a computer illiterate person upload his/her documents? A woman fainted in front of me in the queue due to the heat.”
 
 Two women students whose learner’s licence expired on Tuesday were also at the receiving end of the slow system. “The learner’s licence is valid for only six months. Today is the last day, but our documents are not getting uploaded because of the slow system. People like us should be given an extension to apply for the licence,” said one of them.
 
 After receiving the learner’s licence, the holder has about five months to apply for the permanent one. If the person fails to do so, he/she will have to again apply for the learner’s licence, the appointment of which is given about two months from the date of the application. Another student, originally from Kolkata had come with her mother to upload the documents. “We paid the agent and came here hoping that the process will be done. But now they are telling us to get our documents uploaded. We have got another date in June now,” the student said.
 
 The RTO staff involved in the process of giving licences said, “In a day, we issue about 300 licences. But today till 1pm, we have issued the licences to only four people. The website is extremely slow.”
 
 Another staff member said, “To even generate a single receipt, we have to wait for 20-30 minutes. We are now advising people to pay the fee online as they may have better connectivity via their cellphones.”
 
 The situation at the counter where biometric and actual computer test is done was no better. Sanjay Raut, deputy RTO, said, “We do not have any person deputed to upload the documents as there are not enough people. Today was the first day of the services related to the driving licence on the new system. The site was under maintenance for some time, due to which huge traffic had built up, bringing down the speed of the server. But it will pick up soon.”
 
 He added that e-seva centres will be roped in to help people apply online and pay the fees.
 
