Though he is from Kolkata and lives in Mumbai, he is a regular in Gurgaon's stand-up comedy scene.  , who was in the Millennium City recently for a show, told us that he has performed around 50 shows in Gurgaon. "I have been coming here for three years and I have done about 50 shows in Gurgaon. But I can surely say that I haven't had any bad experience performing for the Gurgaon residents. As our jokes evolved, the audience also evolved with us. They do not like simple jokes anymore. They do not enjoy the same jokes that they may have enjoyed three years back," he says. 

  As we click him on the terrace of his hotel in South City 1, overlooking the Gurgaon skyline, he tells us, "I like this city as Gurgaon. I haven't got the hang of Gurugram till now. I still prefer calling Mumbai 'Bombay' and Kolkata 'Calcutta'. I don't understand the logic behind changing names."
 
  
  
 
  While posing for us he insists, "Please, no funny faces. I am done with that phase. I know we are stand-up comics, but we can't always be smiling and be funny. We make people laugh, but that is work. I am almost done with people asking me to pose making funny faces for shoots."
 
  
  
 
 
  About his profession, Anirban says, "Stand-up comics are a small community of people who not only make people laugh, but also educate them. We work really hard to write our scripts. When someone plagiarises a joke, they do not understand that a lot goes behind writing an original joke. There are no formal rules in stand-up comedy, but your ideas have to be original. They should be written by you and nobody else."
 
 
  
  Anirban Dasgupta posed for us at South City 1, Gurgaon
 
 
  Referring to stand-up comic Abijit Ganguly's allegation that   used his joke on 'The Kapil Sharma Show', Anirban adds, "A lot of people do not understand the problem we have with plagiarism of jokes, because they do not take this art form seriously. They think we are jokers who are meant to make them laugh all the time. But it's not their fault either, people do not know much about this art form. If someone is genuinely interested in learning about stand-up comedy, they can read about it online."
 
 
 
