NEW DELHI:   managed to 
  on Wednesday by suspending Okhla MLA  , whose public attack on the former had precipitated the crisis, and appointing Vishwas in-charge of Rajasthan. The MLA had earlier been forced to 
  to placate Vishwas.

 It is to be seen if this uneasy truce holds in the long run as the party tries to put a string of electoral defeats behind it.
 
 The patch-up came a day after Vishwas had threatened to “take a decision”, indicating that he may quit AAP. After hectic midnight consultations which resumed after daybreak – with chief minister   taking the initiative – the decisions were announced by deputy chief minister   with Vishwas by his side.
 
 The PAC, led by Kejriwal, has decided to set up an inquiry committee to look into the allegations by Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan against Vishwas. Khan has been suspended from the party till the inquiry concludes.
 
 Also Vishwas, who has been harping on the fact that he was not after any position in the party, has now been entrusted with Rajasthan. He will be building the organization there in the run-up to the polls in the state next year.
 
 The thaw came after Kejriwal paid a late-night visit to Vishwas at his Ghaziabad residence and brought him back to his house in Civil Lines. Vishwas had given the PAC meeting on Monday a miss. It was at this meeting that Amantullah Khan was made to resign from the committee as the party brass expressed anger over his going public with allegations against Vishwas. Khan had accused Vishwas of trying to take over Kejriwal’s role as convener by conniving with MLAs and said he was a “BJP-RSS agent”.
 
 Vishwas had on Tuesday expressed anger over the fact that the party had not expelled Khan from the party and said that had the same allegations been made against Kejriwal or Sisodia, Khan would have been thrown out within 10 minutes.
 
 After the PAC meeting on Wednesday, Vishwas and Kejriwal posed together, along with all PAC members, for photographs which were tweeted by party functionary Sanjay Singh as evidence of a united AAP. When he and Sisodia finally emerged to speak to reporters, it was Vishwas who spoke first.
 
 “I thank MLAs and ministers and all others for standing united with the party, for standing with us in this phase. I assure you on behalf of the party that whenever course correction is required, we will sit together agreeing and disagreeing with each other,” he said.
 
 He added that “nobody should have any illusion, whether inside or outside the party that this entire thing was for a position. I had said yesterday that I don’t want to become CM, deputy CM or party convener.”
 
 “Some discussions, which 
  , are happening now. The process has started and I am thankful for that,” said Vishwas. “I assure all volunteers and people who stood by me in this fight that the fight that started from Jantar Mantar for a bigger goal will continue undeterred and there will be no obstruction in that path.”
 
 Sisodia announced that party functionary Pankaj Gupta will head the inquiry committee set up to examine Amanatullah Khan’s allegations, and Atishi Marlena and Ashutosh will be members. “Till the inquiry concludes, Khan has been suspended from the party.”
 
 Khan said he had accepted the party’s decision. “I am with the party and will always be with the party. I respect the decision and the party will never be adversely impacted because of me,” Khan told TOI.
 
 However, he is clearly standing by his allegations for now and seems be in no mood to apologise. Khan has indicated that it is not necessary for him to appear before the inquiry committee and sources said that he may choose not to appear before it.
 
 
