BHUBANESWAR:   for women (NCW) sent its member   to the state on Wednesday to inquire into the alleged assault on   of Jagatsinghpur district. Sasmal, 30, has been the talking point of BJP after she was allegedly assaulted by a group of BJD supporters for handing over a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his roadshow at Bhubaneswar on April 15.

 “I came to know that the Odisha police has been very rude to her. Police didn’t accept her complaint. It seems the DGP is not sensitive. I already sent a communication to him to appear before me in Bhubaneswar to apprise me of the incident and action taken by the police against Sasmal’s assaulters. If the DGP does not turn up, I will summon him and ask for his personal appearance before the commission in Delhi,” Sahu said after arriving in Bhubaneswar. 
 
 On April 15, Sasmal, who ekes out living by rearing goats, handed over the memorandum to Modi, seeking his intervention to resolve tension between her village and a neighbouring village over a cashew land. BJP alleged she was beaten up by some BJD supporters at her Kalikuda village on April 16, aggrieved over her move. 
 
 “I will visit Kalikuda village and meet the woman. I will also talk to the Jagatsinghpur SP and collector and ask them about police inaction,” Sahu said. On Tuesday, BJP supporters gheraoed Ersama police station in Jagatsinghpur, demanding immediate arrest of the attackers. 
 
 BJD refuted BJP’s allegations and said the saffron party is trying to politicise a non-issue. “We have information that the woman is a victim of a dispute between two villages over cashew land. BJP is unnecessarily giving political colour to the village dispute,” BJD spokesperson Samir Das said. 
 
 After slugfest between BJD and BJP over recent mysterious disappearance of Babula Panda, grandson of freedom fighter  , the issue involving Parbati Sasmal triggered a fresh battle between the two political parties. BJD was vocal against BJP when Babula disappeared after prime minister Narendra Modi felicitated his parents at Raj Bhawan here on April 16 towards Laxmi Panda’s contribution to freedom struggle.
 
 
