Allahabad: This battle of ballots is not just about the prominent political parties fielding their candidates, many  , too, have jumped into the fray. Candidates of lesser known parties are pitted against political stalwarts in all the 12 assembly seats of the district. 

 Interestingly, there is a long list of names that have never been even heard of, who are in the fray. Voters are curious to know the names of these smaller parties as their candidates have already filed their nominations to contest elections from all the assembly seats of the Sangam City. 
 
 Ironically, the candidates of other smaller parties like Bahujan Mukti Morcha, Rastriya Samajwadi Party, National Democratic Party, Bahujan Awam Party, Sarva Sambhav party, Bharatiya Kranti Dal, Sarva Kalyan Loktantrik party, Ambedkar Samaj Party, Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal, Pragatisheel Manav Samaj party, Yuva Vikas Party , Republican Party of India, Rastriya Samaj Paksha, Bharatiya Rastriya Jansatta, Nationalist Congress party, National Democratic Peoples front, Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha, Sarva Kalyan Loktantrik Party, Rastriya Ulema Council, Rastriya Jan Shanti Party, Desh Shakti Party, Rastriya Nishad Ekta party, Bhartiya Kisan Sena Loktantrik, Jan Akhikar Party, Rastriya Krantikari Samajwadi party, Bahujan Awam, Sarva Jan Kalyan Loktantrik party,Rastrawadi Pratap Sena, Praja Shanti Samdarshi Party, Lok Gathbandhan party, Rastriya Manav Samman Party, Anjan Admi Party, Peace Party, Adim Samaj Party, Bharatiya Shakti Chetna and Jan Akhikar Manch have filed their nominations from assembly seats of Allahabad, comprising City North, City South, City West, Phulpur, Meja, Karchana, Bara, Koraon, Soraon, Pratappur, Handia, and Phaphamau. 
 
 Some of these political outfits have weird names like Humlog Morcha that will remind one of a soap opera. Till last year, the total number of political parties from UP registered with EC was 474. Of these, 91 have their headoffice in the state capital. On the date of filing of nominations, names of smaller parties surface. According to EC's official records, the 2012 UP elections witnessed almost 100% jump in the number of smaller political parties. In 2007, there were 103 such parties and their number jumped to 204 in 2012.
 
 
