AGRA: A day after a   out between   and BJP party workers outside  , SP on Sunday filed a counter  , including Atul Pratap Singh, son of Thakur Javeer Singh, who is contesting the polls from  .
 
  Around 8 pm on Saturday night, SP workers, lead by incumbent MLA Hariom Yadav’s son Vijay Pratap Singh Yadav allegedly attacked the BJP men who came to file a complaint about people impersonating valid voters and coming to cast their vote at Dadiyamau booth. Following the incident, the BJP members protested outside the district magistrate's residence till 2am, after which police filed an FIR against the SP leader's son and 40 other partymen.
  
  According to a source, few policemen were manhandled by SP workers while they were trying to save BJP's Anand Jadaun, who was being beaten mercilessly with lathis and iron rods. The policemen later rushed the injured man to the nearby hospital.
  
  Station officer of Shikohabad, Sompal Singh, said, “FIRs have been filed by the both parties against each other, and over 50 men from both the groups have been booked under IPC section 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation).”
  
  “Vijay Pratap Singh Yadav, Surya Dev, Awadesh Yadav and 40 unknown men belonging to SP and Atul Pratap Singh and 10 other unknown men of BJP have been booked,” said Sompal Singh.
  
  Till the time of filing this report, no one has been interested.
  
  According to sources, on Saturday afternoon at Dadiyamau booth, BJP polling agents caught a couple impersonating some valid voters. Soon, local village pradhan Awadesh Kumar, along with his men, attacked the BJP men men when polling ended.
  
  Later when the victims, along with senior leaders of the party, were heading towards the police station to file a complaint, the SP men, lead by incumbent MLA’s son, once again attacked them in front of police officials.
  
  According to Thakur Javeer Singh, “Had the local administration taken prompt action, this incident would not have happened.”
