PUNE: There are unclear indications about El Nino, the Pacific Ocean’s weather condition that affects the Indian monsoon. 
 
  (IMD) officials on Monday indicated that the conditions are expected to remain neutral— neither La Nina nor El Nino—in the next six months, private weather forecaster   recently indicated that El Nino has started showing signs of a comeback.
 
 A senior official from IMD’s climate services division told TOI that there is a probability of El Nino Southern Oscillation (ENSO) conditions remaining neutral in the next six months. 
 
 “Different models are forecasting differently on the kind of weather conditions. A clear picture will come out during May and June 2017,” the official said.
 
 Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist from Skymet Weather Services, said models are forecasting an evolving El Nino in the coming months. 
 
 “As of now, models are showing neutral conditions, followed by an evolving El Nino. Back in December, all weather models were suggesting that weak La Nina conditions will continue during early 2017 and neutral conditions may develop by April or May. However, weather models took a U-turn. By mid-January this year, most of them began indicating resurfacing of El Nino. As per this latest outlook, sea surface temperatures (SST) in the tropical Pacific Ocean are likely to increase in six months,” Palawat said.
 
 He added that the weather models also suggest that the   (IOD) may remain positive during monsoon 2017. A positive IOD usually results in good rainfall.
 
 The Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune (IITM) scientist Roxy Mathew Koll said as per the multi-model consensus derived in the report by the International Research Institute for Climate and Society, Columbia University, neutral ENSO conditions may prevail during the beginning of monsoon 2017, which may evolve to El Nino conditions during the monsoon months of August and September 2017. 
 
 “Chances of neutral conditions as well as El Nino are the same by the end of monsoon 2017, 40% for both, the report says,” Koll added.
 
