SHIMLA: The BJP on Sunday met a team of the   and requested the panel to advise the state government to avoid announcing new schemes that do not have budgetary provisions. However, this failed to work in the Congress’ context. As of now, what is visible is the fact that the party has intensified its strategy to woo its voters by laying foundation stones and inaugurating projects. It seems that there is no stopping for the Congress before the announcement of model code of conduct in the state.

 The chief minister   during his visit to Nahan and Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district on Monday inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of projects worth Rs 73 crore.
 
 Not only this, the CM, on Tuesday too, dedicated and laid the foundation stones of around 31 projects in Dalhousie (Chamba), Solan, Doon, Nalagarh, Manali, Kullu, Shahpur, Pachhad, Kasumpti, Una, Lahaul-Spiti and Seraj constituencies through video-conferencing from Shimla.
 
 Apart from inaugurating various projects worth several crores,   also laid the foundation stones of government Colleges at Narag and Pajhota at Phati Patel in Pachhad area of Sirmaur district, Telka and Bhalei in Dalhousie constituency of Chamba district; Kaza in Lahaul-Spiti district and Thachi in Mandi district. He initially made a provision to allot Rs 5 crore to each of these colleges so that they can start.
 
 The CM also inaugurated 'One Stop Centre' at Solan to facilitate women victims of the state.
 
 “The centre will provide assistance to the women, irrespective of the age group, who were either tortured mentally and physically or became victims to the atrocities of domestic violence, trafficking, sexual harassment, depression,” he said.
 
 “The women are the pillars of the society and it is the moral duty to give them respect and honour they deserve,” the CM added.
 
 Stating that in the first phase, three such centres are proposed to be set up at Solan, Kangra and Mandi district, he said the remaining two will be opened in Kangra and Mandi soon.
 
 “The expenses to run the centres in a befitting manner would be borne by the state government,” Virbhadra said.
 
 “There is also a provision to help the women victims and provide them a stay for a week or so if they think they are not safe at home,” said director of social welfare, justice, and empowerment department Mansi Sahai Thakur. Apart from this the services of Para-Medical staff, police facilitating officers, counselors, advocates will also be taken from time to time.
 
