BENGALURU: The alleged sexual assault on a three-year-old girl in the   of a preschool chain on Feb 17 has triggered a campaign by angry parents. The incident came to light a couple of days later.

 The child's parents accused the school management of attempting to hush up the case and also asking them to withdraw their complaint. The accused -a non-teaching staffer in the school -was arrested on the night of the incident.
 
 Sources said the child came home on Friday afternoon and complained of pain in her private parts.“When we repeatedly asked if she had injured herself, she said Manju Bhaiya in her school had touched her inappropriately. We were shocked and met the principal the same day,“ the parents said. They filed an FIR after the principal allegedly refused to act. At the school, the child pointed to Manjunath when asked who had caused the pain. She recounted the incident five times in the presence of the principal and two teachers. Despite the overwhelming confirmation, the principal didn't file a police complaint against the staffer, the mother said.
 
 According to the parents, when the parents were at a private hospital for the child's treatment, they called the principal to check about action taken by the managment. The principal, the parents alleged, refused to file an FIR. “She defended Manjunath which was quite shocking.“
 
 The parents then filed an FIR with the Marathahalli police station and Manjunath was arrested on Friday night. The parents alleged that the principal contacted them. “She pleaded with us to withdraw the complaint.What's the guarantee he has not done something similar to other children in the past?'' the mother asked.
 
 A few more parents have joined the parents' fight. Parents said the school should be closed until further investigation. They have asked for a psychologist to speak to each child to find out if they had been sexually assaulted by Manjunath. “We have contacted the zonal head of the school chain and he has promised to look into the matter. We told the school management to inform all parents, so that counselling is done and they don't live in fear. On Tuesday , parents will decide on the next course of action,'' the parents said. On Monday, police said they're questioning the school principal.
 
