MUMBAI: A 28-year-old   professional, wanted in a  , turned   to escape arrest but was caught on Wednesday by Kherwadi police outside a hotel and handed over to the   crime branch for further probe. 

 Vinod Patil had fled Nashik last June after at least 304 investors approached Gangapur police station and an FIR was registered on August 20. Nashik police arrested his wife for aiding him. Vinod had stopped paying high interest to investors a year-and-a-half ago before the case was registered after he routed the money to buy two financial companies in Nashik, which police have sealed.
 
 Vinod was nabbed when deputy commissioner of police (zone VIII) Virendra Mishra supervised a Kherwadi police team comprising senior inspector Rajendra Patil, sub-inspectors Kamalakar Sonetakke, Khade and Lokhande and a detection team, on receiving informing that he will arrive at Hotel Aroma to pick up tourists for a Mumbai darshan. “We received a tip-off, which was shared with Nashik   assistant inspector R D More, constables S K Gunjal, S B Kulkarni and S B Abhale. They arrived on Wednesday and took Vinod into custody. Vinod was staying in   (E) and worked as a tour guide,” said Patil.
 
 “We got a tip-off that Patil was in Mumbai but did not know the exact location. We alerted our counterparts when we got information that Vinod was in Bandra. He started the fraud investment company under the name of House of Investment Company on Gangapur Road in Nashik in 2011. He lured investors with high returns and paid them high interest every month for three to four years. Then, he stopped paying them and post-dated cheques given to investors started bouncing,” More told TOI.
 
 The case was registered by a lawyer, Ganesh Desai, who was also duped. “The two offices have been sealed and his account has been frozen. He did not maintain a proper account of the Rs 494 crore. He did not even pay taxes and violated rules. His wife was arrested last November after we learned that she induced many to invest in her husband’s company,” said More.
 
 Patil was produced before a Nashik court on Thursday and remanded to police custody till March 23. He was booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for criminal breach of trust and cheating.
 
 
