NEW DELHI: Uttar Pradesh has for the last few elections been witnessing four-cornered contests and as things stand, the situation may not be very different this time round too, even if the exact composition of the corners changes. This means that relatively minor changes in vote shares translate into huge shifts in seats.

 Consider just the last three elections in the state. In 2007, the   won just over 30% of the votes, the SP a little over 26%, the   17% and the   about 8.5%. Five years later the SP raised its tally by barely three percentage points. Its tally of seats went from 97 to 224. The BSP’s vote share in 2012 was about fourand-a-half percentage points
 
 lower than in 2007. Its seats crashed from 206 to 80. Fast forward two years to the 2014   elections and the scenario had changed dramatically. The BJP’s vote share of 42.6% was enough to give it 71 of the state’s 80 seats. That’s almost 90% of seats.
 
 Even if you consider the assembly segment leads, the BJP’s 328 out of 403 meant it led in more than eight out of every 10 segments. The SP was reduced to just 42 assembly segment leads and the BSP to a dismal nine leads.
 
 It is this which makes any predictions of elections in UP an exercise fraught with enormous risk. There is one thing that can be said with reasonable certainty. The BJP can afford to drop even 10 percentage points from its 2014 vote share and still comfortably remain the largest party if not win a majority. After all, even at 10 percentage points less than three years ago, it would still have over 32% of votes, more than either the BSP had in 2007 or the SP in 2012.
 
 Of course, 2014 was a parliamentary election in which neither the SP nor the BSP was a contender for power. It was also an election in which Narendra Modi was successfully projected as the answer to the prayers of a despairing electorate. In an assembly poll, the dynamics would obviously be different. Even so, a drop of over 10 percentage points in vote share for the BJP would be quite remarkable if it were to happen.
 
 The logic of multi-cornered contests also means that alliances, even with relatively minor players, can make a significant difference to outcomes in specific parts of the state. It means the Congress with its about 7-9% votes in the last few elections can still be a force multiplier for one of the major parties if it ties up with them. But even much smaller outfits have their worth, as the BJP’s tie up with the Apna Dal in 2014 showed.
 
 Just as smaller parties become valuable in multi-cornered contests, so too do communities with what would seem quite insignificant numbers. That explains the efforts put in by the various parties to woo not just the big caste or community groupings but even smaller sub-castes.
 
 Of course, all of this arithmetic can become secondary if there is a chemistry that can override it. Can demonetisation provide that chemistry in these elections? And if so, which way will it cut? We’ll have to wait till March 11 to find the answers to such questions.
 
