NAGPUR: Senior orthopaedic surgeon from Thailand, Dr Bancha Chernchujit, who has performed various joint surgeries in India, admitted that the country has a huge burden of ‘Neglected Injuries’, more than any other country. 

 Chernchujit was in the city on Sunday where he had performed four arthroscopic surgeries out of total seven, which were broadcasted live during the two-day ‘Nagpur Arthroscopy   -2017’, organized by   Society, Nagpur (ASN) jointly with the Vidarbha Orthopaedic Society (VOS), at Hotel Radisson Blu. Dr Satyajit Jagtab had organized the conference where Dr   was the organizing secretary.
 
 The very first case performed by Chernchujit was a knee   of a 40-year-old male badminton player who had been injured two years ago. “The patient had a twisted knee injury, there were tears in the ligament (flexible fibrous connective tissue between two bones), the meniscus was so injured because of the chronic injury that the affected portion had to be amputated,” he said.
 
 He said, “In India, I have come across many such cases where patients with chronic pain from year old injury suddenly show up. In many such cases, it is already too late to improve the situation.”
 
 Referring to the same patient, Chernchujit said, “Even after two years, the patient arrived only for his passion for badminton.”
 
 Chernchujit told TOI, “We then harvested his ligament by performing a reconstruction. For meniscus we couldn’t do much. We took the best decisions with whatever limited options we have and it was a successful surgery.”
 
 Commenting on the many cases of neglected injuries, he said, “India being a vast country, there surely must be a huge gap between the doctor patient ratio. It may not be easy for the patients who live in remote areas to see a doctor hence such injuries go neglected and with time it festers, thus complicating matters further. It’s totally different for the European countries where the detection is at the earliest.”
 
 Dr Vivek Pandey, associate professor from Kasturbha Medical College (Manipal), told TOI about an open procedure he performed on a 60-year-old arthritis patient. “Looking at the intensity of the disease, we chose to align the knee bone; the weight which was getting transferred to the diseased side was shifted to the normal side.”
 
 Pandey said, “A patients who is above 60 years of age with chronic joint pain is generally advised knee replacement surgery. But this particular patient had milder arthritis and was physiologically strong as per his age.”
 
 Dr Sayajeet Jagtap said, “The conference had less lectures and more of interactive sessions, case discussions, and video technique. There were a total of seven live surgeries. That’s how we aim to promote arthroscopy.” 
 
