MUMBAI: Four years after being arrested on charges of   in his Jogeshwari school and home, a 36-year-old maths teacher was acquitted by a   on Saturday for lack of evidence. The father-of-three who has been in jail since 2013 will now be released. 

 The students had alleged that the incidents took place in March 2012, but a case was registered only a year later. For, they were in class IX then and feared that their SSC marks would be affected. The complaint was lodged by one of the three students, with the two others giving similar statements. The police claimed that several other students had made similar allegations. The trio deposed in court. 
 
 The teacher claimed that the complaint against him was false and registered at the behest and pressure of the school management, as he was at logger heads with them since 2011. He filed a discharge plea, which was rejected in 2015.
 
 The case was initially registered under the stringent Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act, 2012. However, these charges were dropped after the court found that the Act was not in force at the time of the alleged incident, and could not be applied retrospectively. The teacher was tried under the Indian Penal Code sections 377 (unnatural sexual offences) and 367 (kidnapping or abducting in order to subject person to unnatural lust).
 
 One of the students in his statement alleged that in 2012, the teacher came close to him and asked him for his name, address and phone number. He then allegedly asked the minor to fetch water. The student said that after getting the water, the accused allegedly told him to go to the bathroom. With no other teacher around, the accused then allegedly sexually abused the student for over 15 minutes. The student said the teacher threatened to fail him in exams if he revealed the incident. Similar statements were given by the other students alleging attacks in locked classrooms. 
 
 The defence had cited the delay of one year in registering the complaint as grounds for acquittal. The accused denied allegations that he was ever in a position to to force the students by claiming that he could fail them in their exams. He further stated that it was in fact in the hands of the school management to influence their SSC practical and internal marks and hence, the case was registered only after their exams. The defence also claimed that the medical evidence did not support the prosecution's case.
 
