MUMBAI: Entry rates for the zoo have been a hotly debated subject, with activists opposing  's move to hike charges in keeping with its plan to upgrade facilities.

 Mindful of popular demand, BMC's standing committee (a decision-making panel of corporators) has now reduced rates by 50% from what was proposed earlier by the administration.
 
 An adult entry ticket at   from June 1 will now likely cost Rs 50. The BMC administration wanted the price to be increased from Rs 5 to Rs 100, but the standing committee rejected the plan. Instead, Rs 100 will be the cost of a family ticket (maximum four individuals).The monthly morning walk fee --paid by health-conscious locals who avail of the zoo's open space--is likely to go up to Rs150 from Rs 30. The new rates need to be passed by the civic house.
 
 Aghast green activists called it a dark day for the zoo.Hutokshi Rustomfram, trustee of the  , said, “For an open space, which has forever been an egalitarian haven, welcoming people from all walks of life, this steep increase in the entry charge is very disappointing. This is not just a zoo, but a public botanical garden and people want to visit a garden more than a zoo. Therefore it's unacceptable to increase entry charges so steeply .“
 
 After the zoo's penguin enclosure was opened in March, the BMC pushed for a plan to increase the adult entry fee to Rs 100. This caused an uproar in the city, with open space activists calling the rate unacceptable. On Friday , when the proposal was tabled before the civic standing committee, the Shiv Sena's leader in the house, Yashwant Jadhav , moved an amendment to halve the fee. Opposition leader Ravi Raja agreed.But the BJP's leader, Manoj Kotak, questioned the move on the grounds that the zoo was yet to be modernised. The BJP's   said that the fee should actually be brought down since the number of visitors had increased several times (because of the penguin enclosure).
 
 The Samajwadi Party's leader, Rais Shaikh, opposed the hike. After a long discussion, the amendment to the proposal was accepted, and entry fees for various categories set. The BJP staged a walkout in protest. Also accepted was the proposal to end evening walks.
 
