

 The   sector is one of the major driving agents of Indian economy and over the past several budgets we have seen the government undertaking important steps to improve and develop the infrastructure in our country. The   for 2017-18 is expected to provide a huge impetus to the infrastructure sector with an overall capital expenditure estimated to touch nearly Rs 2.8 lakh crore. 
 
 Given the number of approvals required to kick-start any project, currently, the single window permission is a much needed relief for the infrastructure sector. This initiative is expected to boost investors' confidence and provide thrust in the desired direction. However, the government should relook at the Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) scheme to make infrastructure sector more lucrative for private players; a lower MAT rate or an alternative should be considered for mega infrastructure projects. 
 
 One of the major reasons for underachievement in infrastructure sector is funding and time and cost overruns in the implementation of projects. We expect that the upcoming budget will address this important issue through increased specialised infrastructure financing institutions, and foreign direct investment (FDI) in the sector. We hope that the government will provide a lot more clarity and comfort to foreign investors and focus on the ease of doing business in the country. We also expect that the government will implement the much awaited goods and services tax ( ) this year and provide clarity on existing tax structure. 
 
 There has been a long-standing demand from the industry about awarding infrastructure status to social sectors such as health and education, which has been neglected so far. We hope the government will take notice of this matter. The finance companies have been demanding for the restoration of section 10(23G), under which exemption is provided on interest income for financing infrastructure projects. The cost of borrowing funds will reduce sustainably. We hope the Union Budget will provide the much needed bolster to the sector.
 
 In addition, the demonetisation drive which took the country by storm over the last few months is expected to impact the education sector positively. There are also expectations that the surplus from the demonetisation will be put to use in improving primary and secondary education infrastructure. One can expect better labs, sports facilities, improved teaching staff and material, construction of toilets in government schools etc.
 
 The prime minister recently announced that to realize the objective of housing for all by 2020, re-categorising affordable housing as infrastructure is essential. This change in status along with clear guidelines on investment from foreign pension funds and insurance companies in low cost housing projects is awaited, we the Union Budget will provide the much needed bolster to the sector. 
 
 The manufacturing sector has been persuasively demanding to liberalise cenvat credit regime to ensure that there is no cascading effect on taxes, which unjustifiably burdens the domestic industry. The industry is anticipating that the government will look into this matter in the Union Budget. 
 
 Given the importance of infrastructure development and manufacturing in our economy, the government can play an important role of being a catalyst in kick-starting growth in the sectors.
 
