MEERUT: In a first, Meerut mayor   has declared that every Nagar Nigam board member will have to sing  , the national song, or he will not be allowed to enter the board meeting room or participate in its proceedings.
 
  The announcement led to protests by a few Muslim board members who began quoting a   order that says singing of Vande Mataram is not mandatory. The incident happened on Tuesday when the board meeting was held for the first time after the new   government took over in UP.
  
  Recital of the controversial song has been taking place at the Nagar Nigam since long but those who did not wish to participate in it were allowed to leave the hall and return after it was over. On Tuesday, though, when a few Muslim municipal counsellors began leaving the room, BJP members present there began shouting, "Hindustan mein rehna hai to Vande Mataram kehna hoga (If you want to live in India, you have to sing Vande Mataram)."
  
  This irked the other group and soon there were heated exchanges, leading Ahluwalia to pass a resolution by voice vote to make the singing mandatory for all members. The resolution will still need the government's nod to be implemented.
  
  “Vande Mataram should not be seen having just a religious connotation. It is a way of showing respect to one’s motherland. And this is not a new phenomenon. The song used to be sung even when Muslim mayors were there in the Nigam. So what is the fuss all about now?" asked Ahluwalia.
  
  Four-time member of the board,  , said, “We respect the religious feelings of all and that is the reason we earlier used to leave the hall while the song was being sung. It was an act that was acceptable to everyone. But the new announcement is reflects a skewed mindset. Why should anyone force us to sing the song? This diktat is against the Constitution of India and also against a Supreme Court ruling of February 17, 2017 wherein it is stated that it is not mandatory to sing Vande Mataram."
  
  In a house of 80, BJP has 45 and there are 25 Muslim members. Diwan Shareef, another Muslim municipal counsellor, said, “We just managed to secure our exit safely as the atmosphere was really charged up. We felt really hurt when slogans like 'Hindustan mein rehna hoga to Vande Mataram kehna hoga' were raised against us. Our ancestors too fought for the freedom of this nation from the British and we are willing to lay our lives down for our country.”
