JAIPUR: The Congress on Monday protested against the 20% cess, including 10% for cow conservation and propagation, being charged on stamp papers in Rajasthan. The opposition party even alleged of a scandal, as it claimed the company authorized by the state government to collect the cess was a blacklisted firm from Maharashtra. 

 Pointing to bovine deaths at city's Hingonia Gaushala and in Sawai Madhopur last year, Congress said the BJP government had no right to charge cess in the name of cows.
 
 Hundreds of Congress workers and their leaders held demonstrations and a public rally outside the   to demand rollback of the cess.
 
  (Jaipur city) president Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, who led the protest, said the state government has begun charging 10% cess in the name of providing basic amenities and another 10% cess for protection of cow and its progeny from April 1.
 
 "The common man is already battling unemployment and inflation. The state government is making his survival further difficult with the additional cess of 20% on stamp duties," Khachariyawas said, addressing the rally at Jaipur Collectorate. 
 
 "Rajasthan is the only state where Rs 100 stamp paper is being sold for Rs 125, with service charges," he said, adding that if the BJP government were really interested in cow welfare, it had enough funds to do so without bothering the common man.
 
 The Congress leader claimed that there was a financial scandal behind the government move to charge cess on stamp papers. "A blacklisted company from Maharashtra has been made the commission agent to collect the cess on stamps. All proceeds from the sale of stamp papers in the state first go to the account of this company, which deducts its commission before passing on the money to the government," Khachariyawas said. He went on to state that if Congress were elected to power in 2018, it would investigate the nexus between the company and the present state government and prosecute the guilty. 
 
 The protest rally was attended by former cabinet minister Brij Kishore Sharma, Jaipur's ex-mayor Jyoti Khandelwal and Congress vice-president Archana Sharma, among others. "BJP government stopped the aid that the previous Congress government was giving to Jaipur's Hingonia rehabilitation shelter and subsequently thousands of cows died there last year. It now has no right to charge cess from common man," said Archana Sharma. 
 
 She added, "The common man has already been burdened by increasing the cooking gas by Rs 260 in past six months. Also, when the   bill has been passed, why is the state government charging several kinds of cesses?"
 
