Rape and murder of 23-year-old paramedic   on December 16, 2012 had sparked unprecedented national outrage. Deep internal wounds caused by wolves of lust snuffed out her life 13 days later in Singapore, where she was shifted for emergency treatment.

 On Friday, the   termed the crime “brutal, barbaric and diabolic” to award death penalty to all four adult accused. Thunderous applause followed the unanimous decision of Justices Dipak Misra, R Banumathi and Ashok Bhushan. Members of society, who had defied prohibitory orders on cold December nights of 2012 to hold candle-light marches in the capital, clapped in approval. Did the   show similar sensitivity in the last two decades for society’s cry for justice in even more shocking rape-cum-murder cases involving extreme brutality?
 
 What separated the Nirbhaya case from these, which happened away from cities, was the absence of public outrage and candle-light marches.
 
 In the hinterland, life continues to be cheap, that of a girl child even cheaper. Rape and murder of a girl is blamed more on her destiny than the accused. Daily struggle for livelihood quickly douses the outrage, and candles are far too costly to buy and burn for the cause of a dead girl.
 
 Is award of death penalty dependent on an individual judge’s sensitivity and volatility of his judicial conscience? Let us examine some SC judgments from the last two decades.
 
 In February 1999, a bench of Justices G B Pattanaik and S Rajendra Babu commuted death penalty to life sentence for Akhtar, who was concurrently awarded death penalty by the trial court and Allahabad HC for raping and murdering a minor girl. The logic, “The accused has committed murder of the girl neither intentionally nor with pre-meditation.
 
 The accused found a young girl alone in a lonely place, picked her up for committing rape; while committing rape and in the process by gagging, the girl had died. It cannot be categorised as ‘rarest of rare’ case to justify imposition of death penalty.”
 
 In December 1999, an SC bench of Justices G T Nanavati and K T Thomas in Maharashtra vs Suresh found the man guilty of kidnapping a four-year-old girl, sexually assaulting her and then murdering her. The trial court had awarded him death penalty. But the HC acquitted him. The SC said the HC had gravely erred by ignoring material evidence. But it commuted death sentence to life imprisonment saying the man was acquitted, even though erroneously, by the HC.
 
 In October 2001, in Bantu vs  , Justices R C Lahoti and Ashok Bhan awarded life sentence to a man found guilty of raping and murdering an 11-year-old girl. After murdering her, he had chopped off her ankles with an axe to take her silver anklets. The parents discovered her body and severed limbs in the fields. Could anything be more gruesome?
 
 In Sebastian vs Kerala, Justices H S Bedi and J M Panchal in October 2009 commuted death sentence to life imprisonment for a man who had kidnapped a two-year-old child, raped her and then murdered her brutally. Despite recording that the man was a known paedophile, the SC said imprisonment for entire life was just punishment.
 
 In September 2013, Justices C K Prasad and Kurian Joseph in Rajasthan vs Jamil Khan found a man guilty of brutally raping and killing a five-year-old. He had packed the body in a gunny bag and left it in a train. Commuting the trial court’s decision to impose death penalty, the SC awarded 24 years jail term to him.
 
 In February 2014, Justices B S Chauhan and M Y Eqbal found a man guilty of raping a friend’s daughter and murdering her by strangulation.
 
 The girl used to call the rapist ‘uncle’. The SC set aside the concurrent decisions of the trial court and the HC to award death sentence and replaced it with 35 years jail term. It said, “We are of the view that in spite of the fact that the appellant has committed a heinous crime and raped an innocent, helpless and defenseless minor girl who was in his custody, he is liable to be punished severely, but it is not a case which falls within the category of ‘rarest of rare’.”
 
 Apparent lack of uniformity in awarding sentences, even in gruesome murder cases, was discussed by the SC in November 2012 in Sangeet vs State of Haryana. “In the sentencing process, both the crime and the criminal are equally important. We have, unfortunately, not taken the sentencing process as seriously as it should be with the result that in capital offences, it has become judgecentric sentencing rather than principled sentencing,” it had said.
 
 It said the Bachan Singh case (1980), contrary to popular perception, did not endorse the principle of aggravating and mitigating circumstances to weigh imposition of capital punishment. “Aggravating circumstances relate to crime while mitigating circumstances relate to criminal.
 
 A balance-sheet cannot be drawn up for comparing the two. The considerations for both are distinct and unrelated. The use of the mantra of aggravating and mitigating circumstances needs a review,” it had said. We hope the Nirbhaya judgment will make the SC take a relook at the nuances of sentencing so as to inject uniformity.
 
 
