PUNE: The pressure is building on chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, also in charge of the urban development department, to take action against builders erecting over 10 lakh  , including 1.5 lakh in Pune district.

 Urban planners, activists and developers’ apex body Credai demanded stringent action against the errant builders following the Bombay high court’s order chiding the state government over regularization of illegal structures. State minister   told TOI that the government was considering the demand and holding talks with experts for filing cases and taking punitive action.
 
 Activists have warned to drag the government to court if it failed to initiate action. Urban planners said that the government would have to show political will because many of those involved in illegal constructions had strong political connections.
 
 “The state government must immediately take action against the builders who constructed illegal building. The state must not wait for the court to issue a particular order regarding this issue,” said senior town planner Ramchandra Gohad.
 
 Credai ( ) president Shantilal Kataria said, “Credai is against any illegal constructions and will not come out in support of those who have flouted all norms and rules to construct illegal buildings. Credai disallows membership to such builders. The state must take action and this is the strongest way to curb illegal constructions.”
 
 Kataria insisted that illegal and irregular constructions must be differentiated and actions must be taken only against developers of illegal building developers.
 
 Urban planner Aneeta Gokhale Benninger said the state must impose fine on errant builders. “The fine should be in tune with the rate at which builders have sold illegal properties. Also, the civic body must publish ward-wise maps of development plan so that people come to know about details of land reservations in their areas. This two-way approach will help to stop illegal constructions,” she said.
 
 The  , on Friday, had refused to approve the state government’s amnesty plan for pre-2015 illegal buildings across the state.
 
