NEW DELHI: Help is in the air for students and parents anxious to get their queries addressed about admissions to   colleges.

 The varsity’s   (DUCR) has launched two programmes —   and Admission Express — on its FM frequency 90.4 MHz to help admission seekers. Apart from that, the broadcasters will also reach out to their intended audience on social media through Facebook Live and YouTube videos.
 
 DUCR will continue to air the special programmes twice daily till May 30, when the cutoff lists are released. “After that we will have a special programme on cutoffs. We will make videos in front of colleges and provide information about their infrastructure, cutoffs, courses and faculty. These videos will be live on our Facebook page and can be viewed on YouTube as well,” said Deepak Kumar, an MA political science student at Kirori Mal College, who has been volunteering at DUCR for three years.
 
 “We also have an app called DURadio that can be downloaded by students of south and off-campus colleges as the radio station has a range of only 13km,” said another broadcaster Anil, a student of   and a graduate of  .
 
 The broadcasters said that the programmes are for those who could not attend the Open Day. “Our volunteers recorded the Open Day so we could play it for those students who couldn’t attend it. More volunteers will join us after their exams get over,” said DUCR assistant consultant,  . The volunteers are usually students from colleges like Miranda House, IP College and others where they get training in a real radio studio.
 
 In   Ki Hulchul, information on the admission process, cutoffs, Open Days and admission dates are broadcast. Admission Express airs recordings of Open Day sessions and gives information about colleges. They also broadcast the dean of students’ welfare’s sessions with aspirants.
 
 “Earlier, we had a mobile phone number and WhatsApp to answer the queries of students. We have decided to use Facebook now because our studio was flooded with continuous calls last year,” Deepak Kumar said.
 
 Students manning the radio station believe that by viewing the 30-minute videos and listening to the broadcasts most students and parents can get their doubts resolved. However, they don’t have a live response system. “We need updates and better equipment, which is possible only after we have a consultant’s approval. But the post has been vacant for months,” said a volunteer.
 
 
