INDORE:   by owners of high-end cars has been something the   has been held up with.  , during its drive to receive revenue through  , have stumbled upon specific cases of this widely prevalent form of tax evasion where luxury are registered as taxis

 The regional transport officer MP Singh found that all these vehicles are found sporting white and black number plates with black and yellow letters indicating they are  . However, in the RC books, it emerged that they have been registered as taxis. “Registering high-end cars as taxis has become a common offence,” said Singh.
 
 He said that vehicles registered as taxis are only taxed Rs.600, while as private vehicles, they require life-long taxes to be paid. In case of luxury vehicles priced Rs 30 lakh and more, the registration tax of 15 per cent amounts to Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakh. “This prompts even financially-sound owners to commit the offence of tax evasion,” he said.
 
 Officials have taken action against 20 owners of high-end cars, and around 11 of them have cleared their dues. “It is not easy to detect such evasions. We have prepared a list of 250 high end vehicles that are registered in Indore that need to be checked,” they said.
 
 Meanwhile, owners of these cars said they were not aware about it. They also alleged that transport department authorities failed to keep a check on this practice and their dealers made them register their vehicles as taxi.
 
 “This habit is being followed for decades and it was the department’s fault as it failed to keep a check on dealers who indulge in this practice,” said the owner of an Audi Q-5 which was seized this week. He said that for an owner to pay Rs 2 lakh on their high end cars isn’t an issue. But the harassment on the part of the transport department is. 
 
 Another owner whose BMW car was seized recently said that it is clear harassment to people like him. “Why do they stir into action so late? Why are they not taking action against dealers who register such vehicles as taxis? The action is just a part of their recovery drive and they will forget about it after March 31,” he said.
 
