BENGALURU: Notwithstanding the Centre’s renewed   in south India, Karnataka faces a huge shortage of   in   and  . 

 As per data provided by the education department, as many as 8,604 posts of Hindi teachers in primary schools and 1,500 in high schools are vacant and the situation is being managed with part-time or retired teachers.
 
 Primary and secondary education minister Tanveer Sait said his department had issued a notification to fill 1,727 posts way back in 2005, but it failed to yield result as the selection process eventually got stuck in the Dharwad bench of Karnataka High Court.
 
 According to officials, in March 2015, the government issued a notification stating that applications are invited from candidates who have done certified courses in Hindi from recognized training centres. Accordingly, applications were received region-wise and recruitments done.
 
 However, as per a new notification, BA and B.Ed qualifications have been made compulsory, along with completing a certified course in the language, to get the jobs. About 70 candidates who had made it into the first selection list and were likely to lose jobs challenged the notification and the government is awaiting the final order.
 
 Under pressure from various quarters, the department issued a direction that schools may fill Hindi teachers’ post by appointing guest faculties. But it has been a Herculean task for schools to find people willing to work part-time.
 
 In most cases, it is the other subject teachers in schools who double up as Hindi teachers or retired teachers are pursued to work as part-time teachers.
 
 Congress MLA Rafiq Ahmed S from Tumakuru, who has been pushing the government to take up the cause of Hindi teachers, said: “There has been a dearth of Hindi teachers across government schools in the state. But the government has assured that it’ll restart recruitment once the court resolves the issue. We are hoping it happens at the earliest.”
 
 Hanumaiah, Bengaluru treasurer of Hindi Prachara Samithi, said: “Karnataka government is showing absolute disregard for Hindi language in schools. While it failed to recruit adequate teachers, it has made life difficult for those who have passed Hindi equivalent examination from recognized Hindi training centres like ours. This has created a huge vacuum in state schools as only two universities in Karnataka provide BA and B.Ed courses with Hindi as an optional subject. We have now decided to approach the court to ensure justice for trained Hindi teachers.”
 
