GURUGRAM: “Is it that easy to turn us against each other?” So said a placard at the #NotInMyName gathering in Delhi, as folks who believe in an all-embracing India rose up to remonstrate against a rising tide of hate, on a late-June evening. It was a sentiment that encapsulated the anguish millions felt when the boy  , 16, was lynched on that train.

 Not long after, seven pilgrims, on their way to Amarnath, lost their lives in the wake of a ghastly attack by terrorists. “Not in my name,” they protested again, for evil knows no religion.
 
 The spontaneity of the response to #NotInMyName surprised  , the Gurgaon-based filmmaker behind the people’s movement, as much as it reassured her. Around 3,500 people, maybe as many as 5,000, had converged on  . “We thought about 1,000 would come, but we had underestimated!”
 
 Not that India hadn’t been witness to incidents targeting minorities in the past three years, but the catalyst for the campaign was the murder of Junaid, a young man who had his whole life in front of him. “It was horrifying, what happened, and we wanted to say, ‘No more!’” shared Dewan in a chat with TOI.
 
 “Because we’ve been watching with mounting horror where we’re going. And the lynchings are the most grisly aspect of the violence which Muslims and Dalits are facing.”
 
 Certainly, a sense of impunity prevails, as evidenced by acts like felicitating those behind the riots in Muzaffarnagar, or draping the body of   – one of the accused in the   of Mohammad Akhlaq, in Dadri – in the Tricolour. “He (Sisodia) is a killer of a citizen yet is made out to be a hero, a nationalist – what message does that convey?”
 
 Dewan is more than hopeful this citizen’s initiative will continue to gather steam. Indeed, many are imploring her to keep the faith. “It makes us realise that this needs to be sustained. Because one protest can’t be enough,” she acknowledges. “We had initially planned street protests only for Delhi. But I have since come to know that there were protests in 26 cities – we didn’t know they were organising in other places.
 
 “We could never have anticipated the overwhelming response, the ways it has travelled out and been claimed by different people in different cities. It’s very heartening.
 
 “Muslims have written to us, saying we’re very proud of India today. And these are people who have been pushed to the margins of society – isn’t that a good thing?”
 
 Absolute strangers have become friends, joined in distress but also in the hope of a more accommodating India. “We have a shared commitment to secular ideas, to secularism as enshrined in the Constitution. And we have a shared belief in the equal rights of all Indians,” says Dewan.
 
 There was, she adds, a sense of “collective mourning” at the Delhi protest. “We mourn all victims of lynching. We cry for them, shed tears for them, our own people. Through Junaid, we were mourning for so much else.
 
 “Now, we’re kind of being thrown together, citizens across India.”
 
 Meanwhile, August 27 will be given over to ‘Nafrat Ke Khilaf, Dilli Ki Avaaz – Say No To Hatred’. More than a 100 protests and vigils will be organised on that day. And Dewan is comforted by the spirit and strength of a community that refuses to be tolerant of intolerance, refuses to accept the subversion of democracy. “We are not alone. We take courage in each other, in our voices.”
 
 
