MELBOURNE:   or 'Baby Fed' ­ the Bulgarian with a delectable backhand and a game that's every bit as articulate as  's, even if it's not quite as artistic took   to the wire in Friday's late-night semifinal. That five-set, almost five-hour affair, might have had some precious clues wrapped in it for the 17-time Grand Slam champion, who'll take on his long-time rival in a championship clash that's being touted as a classic.

 For instance, Dimitrov met the ball on his backhand, just where he wanted to for most part, almost never having to reach over and play his single-fisted shot from an uncomfortable position.
 
 The blue-grey surface of the   Arena is playing fast and the ball isn't sitting up, just as the Swiss superstar likes it.
 
  
  
 The 30-year-old Spaniard has been the biggest spoiler for Federer, who's popularly tipped as the 'greatest ever'. Even if he lost their last meeting, Nadal won five of their last six clashes, including in the semifinals here three years ago. The Spaniard it appears has Federer's number, but this pacy surface may present the Swiss with a comeback line he needs.
 
 "It's going to be a freaking amazing match," Dimitrov said of Sunday's final.
 
 While Federer himself didn't attach too much importance to the fact that the two friends, rivals and colleagues of the classic old-world mould ­ have not met across the net in 18 months, he did say not facing Nadal was "better than being crushed at the French Open and playing him again at Wimbledon."
 
 He was referring to the 2008 final in  , where the Swiss won four games in three sets after which Nadal beat him at Wimbledon to win the first of his two titles at the All England Club.
 
 Federer, who looked ahead at Sunday's final, calling it an 'epic battle', said, "Maybe I lost the Wimbledon final in 2008 because of too many clay court matches. He crushed me at the French Open final. I think it affected my first two sets at Wimbledon. Maybe that's why I ended up losing." The Swiss continued, "I know Rafa played great in that final. I actually ended up playing great too, but I wasn't fighting the right way. I think that was the effect of that French Open loss. It was more mental."
 
 Then came the warning, a passing scowl, a flick of the wrist. "Now it's a different time. A lot of time has gone by," Federer said. "This court allows me to play a certain game against Rafa that I cannot do on centre court at the French Open."
 
 Nadal, who seems to have rediscovered the fight in him, agreed that the past record didn't count. "This is a different match, different moment for both of us. I think this match is completely different than what happened before," he said.
 
 'Fedal', as social media is calling Sunday's final, have met 21 times in the title round in their 34 meetings so far. "It's the combination of two different styles that makes the matches really special," Nadal said of the rivalry. "Is different way to play tennis... people from outside our world talk about this and that's good for our sport. Is good that we are back there."
 
 The only counter to that is an interception. It's not good, it's great.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Federer came into the title clash on a 21-match winning streak wanting to avenge his loss to the 18-year-old who had gotten the better of him in their first meeting. The Swiss won the 3 hour 43 minute encounter in which he sent down nine aces and won only seven points more than his opponent in the 2-6, 7-6 (4), 6-7 (5), 6-3, 6-1 win.
 
 
 
 
 Nadal, 19, won this five-hour encounter which in many ways capsuled what was to come -the Spaniard's domination of a surface he took ownership of and also the upper-hand in the rivalry against an opponent who was already talked of as one of the best talents to ever walk the rectangle. The teenager may have won a smaller percentage of points (49), but he had the match 6-7 (0), 7-6 (5), 6-4, 2-6, 7-6 (7-5).
 
 
 
 
 Nadal came into the final looking for his first title on hardcourts, while Federer was gunning for his 14th Slam that would tie him with  . The Spaniard won the 4-hour 19-minute epic, breaking Federer seven times, once more than the Swiss had broken him. Nadal won the final 7-5, 3-6, 7-6 (3), 3-6, 6-2.
 
 
 
 
 Nadal had been ranked No.2 for two years and was looking to upstage the man who had won the last four Wimbledons beating the Spaniard in the previous final. Federer sent down 24 aces in the match, while Nadal tried to match up with serve as well as nerve. Federer won 7-6 (7), 4-6, 7-6 (3), 2-6, 6-2
 
 
 
 
 Federer came into the final looking for his sixth successive crown on the slick lawns of the All England Club. He hadn't dropped a set, while Nadal was looking for a breakthrough in the grasscourt Slam. Battling fading light and an opponent whose fight matched his flair on the day, Nadal won what many call 'the best match ever' 6-4, 6-4, 6-7 (5), 6-7 (8), 9-7.
 
