BENGALURU: A predawn race involving three teenagers on   Elevated Expressway went awry after their vehicles, borrowed from their parents, and a mini-truck were involved in a pile-up killing one of the youngsters near Roopena Agrahara, southeast Bengaluru, on Sunday.

 Arfhan Salim, 17, from HSR Layout and a student of a private college, was beheaded as his sedan grazed against a row of barricades placed in the median of the road and his head hit them. His friends -Anirudh K, also from HSR Layout, and Srinvas G, from Devarachikkanhalli, both 16 years old -survived miraculously without injuries.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (traffic-east) Abhishek Goyal said the accident occurred around 3am on Sunday when the cars were racing down the ramp of the expressway towards Madiwala. "The boys were speeding at over 150kmph," he said. "They come from affluent families. Srinivas and Aniruddh are students of prominent international schools and children of software engineers. They claim they regularly go on in ear ly-morning drives with schoolmates," a police officer said.
 
 Police said the three boys took the cars out when their parents were asleep around midnight. They met on Hosur Road and decided to drive around for a couple of hours. A rfhan was driving a  , Srinivas was in Toyota   and Anirudh was in a Suzuki sedan. "Arfhan first lost control over his car after they got down the ramp and entered Hosur Road. He hit the barricades to his right in the median. In the impact of the crash, the car banged against the barricades, severing his head. Arfhan's head fell off, while the torso remained in the car that toppled before coming to a halt," the officer explained.
 
 "Srinivas lost control over his Innova that sped ahead, crashed through the median and hit a milk tanker coming from the opposite side. While Srinivas re mained unhurt, the tanker overturned and its axle got cut. The tanker driver escaped without injuries," the officer said.
 
 Police filed a case against the boys, who drove the cars, and their fathers for allowing minors to drive their vehicles. While the boys were booked for causing death due to negligence, racing and rash and negligent driving, their fathers were booked for allowing unauthorized persons to drive vehicles.
 
 "Srinivas's father Govinda Raju and Anirudh's father Krishna Murhty were arrested and released on bail," police said, adding Arfan's father Salim would be held after he completes the final rites of his son.
 
