NEW DELHI: The capital has emerged as a dangerous place for pedestrians and bikers. Four out of every 10 people killed in road accidents here is a pedestrian; the other four are two-wheelers riders.

 According to a study conducted by the traffic police, five people died every day in road accidents last year. The two Ring Roads were veritable death traps with 203 people perishing on these arterial stretches that connect almost all parts of the city.
 
 The study which includes data from January to November last year shows that 612 pedestrians and 503 people on two-wheelers were killed between January and November last year.
 
 Almost 50% of the pedestrian deaths took place while they were walking — due to lack of designated footpaths in many places — or crossing the roads. Eighty per cent of the deaths involving two-wheelers were caused because of two factors: the vehicles toppled and their riders were not wearing helmets.
 
 The maximum number of fatal accidents occurred between 11pm and midnight; the morning peak hours — 10am to 11am — were the safest. Cops say that private cars were found to be biggest killers on road last year.
 Most of the accidents took place near flyovers and junctions. “Our accident analysis unit has been studying every fatal accident that was reported in the city and has come up with solutions which require engineering changes at some of the stretches in order to reduce chances of collisions. Though the rate of accidents has reduced since 2015, our aim is to bring it down to zero,” special commissioner (traffic) Ajay Kashyap said.
 
 
  
 
 
 Apart from the two Ring Roads, highways — GT Karnal Road, Rohtak Road, NH-8 and Grand Trunk Road — passing through the city accounted for most of the other fatalities. Police officers admitted that speeding on open stretches is the reason behind almost all the accident cases. Careless overtaking, lane changing or stopping suddenly led to most of the accidents, as evident from a speeding BMW car recently ramming into a cab, killing the driver. According to the NCRB, 41% of the accident are due to speeding while 32.2% were due changing lanes. Driving drunk too constitutes 10% of the fatalities.
 
 In June last year, a 21-year-old BBA student driving his father’s car mowed down two people and injured several others. The youth Rishabh Rawat, a second year BBA student was found to be drunk and arrested after being chased down by a police constable.
 
  
  
 
 Cops say that private cars were found to be the biggest killers on road in 2016. Cops had charged 243 private car drivers for fatal accidents last year. Cops also registered, 579 cases as hit and run incidents in which later investigations revealed that almost 51% were caused by private cars. Trucks were found to be second biggest killers on road.
 
 According to a previous study by the ministry of road transport and highways, 77.1% of the accidents were caused due to the fault of the driver, while the rest were due to the fault of the victim. Moreover, almost 70% of the accidents were caused by head-on collisions with the victim while the rest were caused by side or reverse collisions.’
 
