KOCHI:  , who visited   2016 over the weekend, said that the improved interaction and engagement with the public fortifies the creativity of an artist while commending the dynamic and far-reaching civic involvement.

 This according to him is the high point of the ongoing art festival in the city.
 
 “Apart from art aficiona dos, it is when the general public step in to experience this festival that the Biennale gives an exceptional strength to the artists who are putting their creativity on a display,“ Malayil said, after a tour of the   in Fort Kochi. The director of popular films like Kireedam (1989) and His Highness Abdullah (1990) to name a few, visited the Biennale for the third time and described it as a platform to resist threats to freedom of expressions.
 
 He also added that it is not always necessary to understand the depth of the artwork to appreciate it, the aesthetics communicate just as well.
 
 “Sometimes it is not possible to completely absorb the meaning of the artwork, but there is a non-verbal dialogue initiated between the artist and the visitor. However,  's `Sea of Pain' is a bit different. The artwork conveys the whole meaning to the viewer,“ he said.
 
 Award-winning director   also visited the KMB 2016 along with his family so as to understand the various perspectives of art through the kids' perception as well. “I have come with my kids to understand how children relate to and absorb a complex art event. I was surprised to hear their intelligent perspectives on some of the works,“ he said.
 
 Singling out the Biennale venues for special praise, Anchal ­ whose 1997 feature Guru was India's official entry to the Oscars in the Best Foreign Film category ­ noted that the revamped heritage structures add to the beauty of the 108 day celebration of contemporary art.
 
 “I was cautious about the location when we planned Guru because I believe that the space adds to the aesthetic of the work. The same is the case with the Biennale. The venues are influencing the exhibits positively. In spite of the scorching heat, these venues gift the visitor an enriching experience to enjoy the art,“ he said.
 
