NAGPUR: Stung by repeated exposés by the media highlighting the Nagpur University’s mistakes, the director of board of examinations and evaluations   recently issued a gag order to all sectional heads and officials of the university, barring them from speaking with the media.

 Over the last six months, the examination section, headed by Khaty, has been in the news for several blunders committed by it that affected several students. When Khaty got the additional charge of registrar’s post in the absence of  , he immediately issued the order, after taking vice-chancellor SP Kane into confidence. Interestingly, Khaty was only holding the additional charge for a few weeks and, according to academicians, was not expected to make policy decisions such as this one.
 
 In the letter dated May 2, Khaty stated, “The university administration has observed that many sectional heads, officials, teachers and employees are directly speaking to media. Internal developments and information are being shared by them with media. But, the media is not verifying the facts before reporting. Therefore, the image of university is getting maligned.”
 
 The letter further stated that the university administration had taken the issue seriously and henceforth, officials shouldn’t speak to the media. “Only the vice-chancellor, pro-VC, registrar, director of examinations and evaluation board, finance and accounts officer, and public relations officer are authorized to speak with media. If the order is violated, strict action would be taken as per rules,” the order reads.
 
 But, that hasn’t helped the examination section as its failures have continued to hound the NU.
 
 Khaty, who held the additional charge of registrar’s post from late April to first week of May, has, in the past, tried to conceal facts about the examination section. In January, when all Master of Arts (English) third semester students had failed in the 20th Century American literature paper, Khaty cited 23% result to prove that not all had failed. However, he failed to mention the fact that it was an optional subject.
 
 NU sources also believe that Khaty attempted to kill two birds with one stone by issuing the order. They said that besides trying to cover up exam section’s blunders, the move was targeted at pro-vice chancellor  , who generally briefs the media on NU affairs without suppressing facts.
 
 Sources also said that although the letter states that it has been issued as per the order of vice-chancellor, it was Khaty’s idea. “While taking charge, the VC had said that NU doors would always be open for the media, then how can the same VC allow such an order,” they asked.
 
 Questioning the order, senior academician   said that the move means there is something the university wants to hide. “The acting registrar has to just complete the routine work and not make a policy decision. This is a policy decision. The regular registrar and the VC have such authority. Loopholes in the system must be brought out. It is an undemocratic to gag people who criticize you,” he said.
 
 Kane and Khaty — both of whom are authorized to speak to the media, even according to the present order — didn’t answer TOI’s calls seeking comment.
 
