KOZHIKODE: The single largest initiative by the government ­ to relocate people from   inside   (WWS) ­ has hit a major hurdle. While majority of the 232 eligible families comprising small landholders in the settlement, located deep inside the sanctuary, have agreed to move out, as many as seven families who together possess around 40 acres refuse to do so. Reason: The central government scheme offers a uniform compensation of Rs 10 lakh per eligible family irrespective of the size of the land in their possession, making the deal unattractive for large landholders.

 The voluntary relocation scheme aims to make inviolate space for the wildlife by shifting the human settlement out of the forest area. Once completed, the settlement at Chettiyalathur would be the biggest and most populous settlement shifted out of the sanctuary. Men above 18 years of age, unmarried women above 18 years of age, widows and woman divorcees would be treated as separate eligible families under the scheme.
 
 According to environmentalists, if the families with large land holdings decide to stay put, the project would not atta in its desired result.
 
 "We have requested to the government to either acquire the large land holdings or explore the possibility of getting additional funds through environmental organizations," N Badusha, president of  , said.
 
 The project is implemented with funds from the central government's Integrated Development of Wildlife Habitat Scheme (IDWHS). The estimated cost of the project is Rs 23 crore and it will be shared on 60:40 basis by the central and state governments.Around Rs 19 crore is already available with the district authorities to initiate the relocation.
 
 A study conducted by Kerala Forest Research Institute ( ) in 2009 had found that there were about 12,000 people belonging to 2,500 families residing within the WWS. Based on the report, the state government had submitted a Rs 80crore proposal for the relocation of the most-affected 800 families across 14 settlements, which was accepted and approved by the central government in 2011.
 
 As many as 185 eligible families from six settlements inside WWS has been relocated since 2011.
 
 WWS warden   said, "We feel that once the majority of residents move out of the forests, then the remaining families will have no option but to vacate the place located in the core of the forest," he said.
 
