NAGPUR: Vijaya Rahatkar, president of   state commission for women, had to leave a press conference at Ravi Bhavan on Sunday midway after some unruly   workers, led by the party’s city women president Alka  , barged into the room beating drums and raising slogans to protest recent cases of atrocities against women. 

 Kamble had earlier left the city police red-faced by trying to enter the route of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cavalcade waving black flag in April this year. 
 
 Apart from a woman constable, there was none to manage the situation at Ravi Bhavan. A handful of officials from district women and child development department along with information department were left helpless by the ruckus.
 
 Rahatkar, who was addressing a press conference on the upcoming international conference on trafficking to be held in Mumbai on July 27 and 28, tried to assuage the protesters by stating that she would do utmost to help the victims but the NCP refused to budge. 
 
 The NCP workers later entered the conference room with their drums, leaving the organizers with no other option but to call off the media meet abruptly. Rahatkar somehow managed to reach her car and leave the premises. 
 
 Cameramen and scribes present for the media interaction were caught between the war of words between Kamble and Rahatkar and the officials. Kamble wanted to know from Rahatkar what was her commission doing when women from city were being targeted by robbers and rapists. 
 
 Rahatkar, as the cameras were rolling, offered Kamble and supporters to speak first before presenting her version on the issue. 
 
 Rahatkar later described the protest as a ‘stuntbaazi’ by NCP workers. “Solution to any problem can be sought only through discussions. Such stunts generally get exposed,” she said. “They (NCP) were in power for six-and-half years but what did they do,” she said. 
 
 Kamble and her supporters were later rounded up by   police which registered an offence under Maharashtra Police Act for unlawful assembly. Apart from Kamble, those who were booked include Dinkar Wankhede, Purnima Ramteke, Sarla Wasnik, Kanchan Nagrare and others. 
 
 Activists from other organizations who had come to meet Rahatkar maintained their calm. Independent corporator Abha Pande and some members of Umesh Choubey’s team like Sunita Thakre presented their grievances to Rahatkar without creating any drama. 
 
 Pande, whose grievances revolved around city police’s women grievances redressal unit ‘Bharosa cell’ and its officials, said she wanted the commission to know that the mechanism was present only for namesake with no effective outcome. “There are 1.450 complaints pending before Bharosa cell,” she said.
 
 Pande also said that city police’s social service branch PI Shubhada Sankhe was ineptly handling complaints and has not been proactive to curb flesh trade in the city.
 
