NAGPUR: In a clear violation of   (UGC) guidelines, a Bachelor of Education (BEd) college has held back original documents submitted at the time of provisional admission by a student, to force her to pay the entire year’s tuition fee of Rs 25,000.

 On October 31, 2015, Vidhi Mehta paid Rs2,250 as partial fee and submitted originals of BCom I, II and III year mark sheets, college leaving certificate, SSC and HSC marklists, BEd entrance scorecard and hall ticket. Her chosen college was   affiliated to  , located at Rui Zari off Wardha Road.
 
 A couple of days later, Mehta approached the college and expressed her inability to join the course since she was moving out of the city. She requested the college to release her original documents. However, the college told her to pay the entire BEd first-year tuition fee to get the documents.
 
 As per UGC norms, an institution can’t hold back documents and force a student to pay the entire fee if s/he withdraws admission. In May 2016, UGC secretary   had written to vice chancellors across the country, saying that retaining original certificates and forcing retention of admitted students limited the opportunity of candidates to join other institutions.
 
 UGC had also asked educational institutions to only deduct a processing fee of not more than Rs1,000 and refund the rest in such cases. It had also asked institutions not to retain the original certificates of candidates.
 
 On May 18, 2016, on returning to the city, Mehta again wrote to Green Heaven, seeking release of her documents. In a reply two days later, the college again asked her to pay the entire tuition fee.
 
 “I had only paid partial fee and never submitted the college admission fee. I didn’t even attend a single class. I am ready to forfeit the initial amount but the college is harassing me for the entire year’s fee Rs 25,000,” Mehta said.
 
 Green Heaven principal Sarita Ugale referred TOI’s queries to institute trust secretary Anil Sharma. The latter said since Mehta was allotted the college through centralized admission process, and her claim was reported to the Directorate of Higher Education, the admission was confirmed.
 
 However, the allotment letter bears the heading ‘Letter of Provisional Admission’.
 
 Sharma said, “We are only demanding first-year fee and not for the entire two-year fee. The candidate is liable to pay the fee as per the rules. Generally, the full fee has to be paid at the time of admission, but we give instalment facility to students.”
 
 Vice chancellor SP Kane refused to comment on this specific case, but said if a student has not taken admission then there is no question of paying the fee. He also said that aggrieved students could file a complaint with the university.
 
