CHENNAI:   has named a special division bench to hear all cases relating to the stalled post-graduate medical admissions in Tamil Nadu.

 A bench of Justice K K Sasidharan and Justice M S Subramanian has been constituted to hear the appeals filed by the Tamil Nadu government as well as aggrieved   in government service. The bench will hear the cases on Tuesday and Wednesday, highly placed sources told TOI.
 
 “Since it is not a vacation bench, but a specially constituted bench, now the onus is upon the arguing counsel to make most of it, and ensure that they not only complete their submissions quick, but also give sufficient time for the bench to write the verdict at the end of the deliberations without much delay,” sources said.
 
 Already   admissions are delayed, as the government could not commence it in the beginning of the month, as scheduled, in view of court cases and the resultant agitations by government doctors.
 
 It all began when an assistant civil surgeon working in the Nilgiris district moved the court seeking a direction to state authorities to adhere to this year’s MCI regulations on awarding incentives to in-service candidates. As against the state policy of awarding one mark for each year in government service for all doctors, besides two marks each year for those employed in certain notified areas, the MCI envisaged a scheme wherein 10% of a candidate’s NEET-PG marks will be awarded every year of his service, subject to the maximum of 30%.
 
 On April 17, Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana ordered accordingly and made it clear that this year’s PG medical admissions must follow the MCI guidelines and not state policy. This resulted in agitation by several thousand government doctors who wanted no interference with the 35 year old practice of awarding incentives to all in-service candidates. Though the government and aggrieved doctors rushed to high court with appeals, a division bench had on Thursday said the issue was complex and required comprehensive hearing. It also advised counsel to approach the chief justice for constitution of a   or listing in a vacation bench, in view of the urgency.
 
 Accordingly senior advocates P Wilson and G Thilagavathi made a mention of the matter before the first bench of Chief Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice M Sundar on Thursday and Friday. The bench, which had asked them give consent letters to the registry, has now constituted a special bench of Justice KK Sasidharan and Justice SM Subramanian.
 
 The division bench had on Thursday clearly set out the task before the bench hearing the issue, and said: “This court is of the considered view that in view of the amendment to the MCI Regulations and also taking into consideration Entry 66 of List I of Central List vis-a-vis Entry 25 List II of the State List, a comprehensive reading and appraisal of the Central and State List, as well as the respective Regulations, is required with reference to the autonomy given to the state government in the matter of allocation of seats, wherein 50% of the seats pertaining to the state's share.
 
 “This court is of the further view that a comprehensive hearing needs to be given with regard to the allocation 25% of the seats towards general merit candidates and 25% towards in-service candidates based on the areas as is notified in the prospectus -- rural area/difficult area/remote area/hilly area -- keeping in mind the guidelines formulated by Medical Council of India vis-a-vis the autonomy given to the state government in the matter of allocation of seats with further reference to the marks and incentives to be given to the candidates based on their accommodation in the notified areas.”
 
