LUDHIANA: The   (SAD) on Tuesday unveiled its election manifesto for the 2017 assembly elections in Ludhiana, which was released by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. 

 Speaking on the occasion Badal said, "We have delivered what we have promised earlier be it making the state power surplus, introducing unique welfare schemes like aata-daal and Shagun, to providing 100 per cent water and sewerage facilities in 165 towns across the State” 
 
 Giving details about the   Badal said that upon coming in power,   will give State fertiliser input incentive of Rs 100 per quintal on both wheat and paddy as an additional support to farmers over and above the minimum support price (MSP) and all small farmers will also be eligible for a Rs 2 lakh interest free agriculture crop loan.
 
 Stating that the next five years would be known as the period when rural infrastructure was revolutionised in the State, Badal said "we have provided clean drinking water and sewerage facilities in 165 towns. Now we will do the same in all 12,000 villages besides making cemented streets and putting up solar lights". He said besides this a one stop shop which will dispense aata daal, medical clinic and Sewa kendra will be opened in villages. All link roads will be made 18 feet wide. 
 
 The SAD president said the Akali-BJP alliance was also committed to skilling 10 lakh youth in 25,000 skill centres with one skill centre catering to five villages. Those doing the skill courses will be eligible for Rs 10 lakh interest free loan. The alliance government will also facilitate 50,000 youth to acquire taxis without down payment and soft loans. We will give government employment and also create jobs in tourism and industrial sectors to reach the 20 lakh job promise, he said. 
 
 Badal also informed that it has been decided that all kutcha houses will be made pucca and the houseless would be given jobs. He said it had been decided to increase all welfare pensions from the present Rs 500 per month to Rs 2,000 per month. Shagun scheme will be raised from Rs 15,000 to Rs 51,000. A new initiative to give five kg sugar at Rs ten per kg and two kg ghee at Rs 25 per kg would also be implemented. 
 
 Free gas connections will also be given to all blue card holders even as medical treatment to blue card holders, small farmers, petty traders and construction workers would be raised to Rs one lakh per annum. 
  
 Highlighting the initiatives which would be taken for womenfolk, Badal said all matric pass women would be eligible to get sewing machines. 
  
 Stating that controlling crime and continuing the fight against drugs was a top priority for the akali- BJP alliance, Badal said CCTV cameras would be installed on all entry and exit points of villages and cities to check crime. 
 
 He said in the next five years the entire walled city would be given a world class heritage look. He said other heritage and religious towns would also be taken up for a heritage makeover. 
 
