AMRITSAR:   are asking the newly-formed   to fix   (MSP) of vegetables and fruits to minimize growers' losses even as the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Chandigarh has suggested strengthening   (FPOs) to give   by doing away with intermediators. 

 In the recent past, vegetable growers had suffered huge losses, first due to scarcity of cash in the market owing to demonetization and later on account of bumper crop of vegetables, said president of Jamhuri Kissan Sabha Satnam Singh Ajnala. "If there was   then farmers wouldn't have suffered any loss," he said.
 
 Satish Verma, professor of RBI chair in CRRID, said in the vegetable belt of Malerkotla in Sangrur district, cauliflower was sold for as low as 30 paise per kg. 
 
 During a survey, he said, it was found that a farmer's bag having 26kg cauliflower was sold for Rs 52 whereas the input cost per bag of the grower was Rs 18. "I wonder whether farmers had even received the input cost leave alone their profits," he said.
 
 A vegetable grower of Loharka village in Amritsar district, Harjhab Singh, said, "I fear growing vegetables if there is a bumper crop. I wish Congress government fix MSP for vegetables and fruits too."
 
 Satnam said he had convened a meeting of farmers at Ajnala and decided to contact like-minded farmers' outfits and give a representation to chief minister Amarinder Singh urging him to fix MSP for vegetables and fruits. 
 
 "If government didn't fulfil our demand then we are even prepared for a long drawn agitation," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Prof Verma informed that there was a dire need to strengthen FPOs. "There are only 69 FPOs in Punjab, out of which around 30 deal with vegetables and fruits," he said. 
 
 He said FPOs should be given licences so they could work from fruit and vegetable markets and prevent farmers from going to commission agents.
 
 He said normally vegetables bidding begins in markets at around 5 am. 'In case a farmer doesn't reach on time to participate in the bidding, he is forced to sell his produce to commission agents at throwaway prices but if there were cold chains then he could stock his produce and sell later at his own price," professor Verma said.
 
