With the beginning of the ninth edition of   or the Joy of Giving Week today (on till October 8), Mumbaikars are all set to participate by donating money, clothes, indulging in simple acts of kindness or voluntarily sharing their time or knowledge. Celebrities in the city share how they will be observing this week... 

 
 
 Daan Ustav is leading into the Diwali week and I believe that along with donating, it’s also a time for sharing. Giving can seem a little condescending. This year I will be donating my son’s and my clothes. I instill that value in him — to share his toys with the less privileged. I am into Buddhism and chanting. I’d like to share this knowledge and get people to experience the mystic law. 
 
 
 
 During the Daan Utsav, I love donating clothes, food and like to provide a helping hand to the needy. Since I am not in India this week, my team will be doing the needful. I believe that the more you share, the more you’ll prosper. 
 
 
 
 I will be giving away knowledge on how to optimise health from within. Nothing is more important than being healthy and being able to accomplish one’s daily routine unrestrictive and pain-free. 
 
 
 
 Giving is a warm, heartfelt deed that I’ve learnt from my family. As a youngster, I’d give blankets, food to puppies and all animals. Buying trinkets from kids at traffic signals gives me peace. I’m going to continue doing these through the first week of October until eternity.
 
 
 I believe that a heart that gives is a heart that grows and what I really appreciate about Daan Utsav is that you can donate in any form, not just money. I feel happy that this initiative is growing as a mass movement and doing what is needed. I would want to donate the gift of education, as I believe education is the most powerful weapon to do anything in this world.
 
 
 
 Daan Utsav is an opportunity to give and everything you give out into the universe is what comes back into your life manifold. I feel, not just the first week of October — but every week, of every month, one should seize the opportunity to give and bring a smile to someone’s face. I am fortunate to have people around who give joyfully and hence, have abundance in their lives. 
 
 
 
 Daan Utsav shouldn’t be just perceived as a way of donating material things to help others. A healthy, progressive mind is the key to solve every problem in the world. I think for me to impart knowledge and education in whichever way I can in my own capacity, is most important. People imbibing that and becoming more aware of their surroundings, having responsibility, civic sense, compassion and politeness towards others is needed.
 
 
 
 I’ve always believed in giving the entire year in my own way. At times, I barely keep a track of things I do but yes, the joy of giving leaves me absolutely ecstatic. I suggest that everyone indulges in giving, whenever they can with whatever possible. This year I want to give food, clothes, a little cash donation and spend quality time with underprivileged children over songs and dance. 
 
 
 
 Family occasions have never been complete without spending them at an orphanage or an old-age home. This Daan Utsav, I’d love to spend time with kids and give them food, books, pencils, clothes, cash and toys.
 
 
 
