KOLKATA: Thakurpukur homemaker   has already scored a half century while Lake Town techie Aritrik Majumdar is just three short of completing a 50.

 No, the two are not the debutants upsetting the visiting team Australia yet again, but are city pandal-hoppers already done with visiting most of the big-ticket Puja pandals in the city even before the big four Puja days.
 
 “Since most of the committees of big Pujas had opened their gates within a day or two of Mahalaya, I had set off on Friday evening itself after my husband returned from work” said Bose. The family of three checked out the pujas of Haridevpur, Kasba and Jadavpur that night. The next day, they visited most popular pujas in Chetla, Tollygunge and Ballygunge. “On Sunday, we hired a car and, along with a friend’s family, visited most of the pujas in north Kolkata. On Tuesday again, we watched the pujas in Behala and Kidderpore. By  , I am done with puja hopping,” she added.
 
 The rain forecast, a pre-Puja weekend and the chief minister inaugurating big Puja pandals from Mahalaya had set a majority of people on a pandal-hopping spree since Tritiya. “On Chaturthi, we had a crowd count of around 1 lakh, which is a record in itself. Even till last year, we used to have a maxiumum of 10,000 visitors on Chaturthi,” said  , the chairman of Md Ali Park Durga Puja Committee.
 
 The gang of Saptarshi Chowdhury, Shreya Mukherjee and Akash Rahul Sarkar, all students of Class XII and college first year, had started from Tritiya and by Tuesday evening had completed visiting all the top south Kolkata pandals. “Saptami onwards we will head to north,” said Saptarshi, a Class XI student of National James School.
 
 Shreya added that it was not “easy” walking down in the sweltering heat but the effort “was worth it.” “I just had my exams and needed this break badly. From Asthami, I will be at my neighbourhood pandal,” he said.
 
 Aritrik Majumdar, a software professional, has spent a bomb hiring cabs on Tritiya and Chaturthi nights. “I have spent over Rs 5000 as I knew that I will have to cover maximum pandals. We have a puja at home in   and I will not get another chance in the next four days. I will visit the pandals that I’ve missed on Ekadasi,” he said.
 
 However, the festival fervour was not limited to the young generation only. Even those working round the clock during pujas found time for pandal-hopping. An officer in charge of a prominent south Kolkata police station spent the entire Chaturthi night with family. “From north to south and central, I visited over 40 pandals between 11pm and 6am. Now my family cannot complain about the pujas going waste,” he chuckled.
 
 The enthusiasm of the revellers often led to unsavoury incidents — even inside the Metro — with thousands headed towards Kalighat station to visit the big Pujas. Inside the Metro train around 9pm on Panchami, a 10-year-old girl was left stranded inside a jam-packed coach after her parents got off at Kalighat station, leaving her behind accidentally. Though the RPF was quick to spot the girl and returned her to her parents, the incident was a reminder that any slip in security can lead to grave consequences.
 
 The early surge of revellers has no doubt stumped the Puja organisers and the cops alike who hope that the crowd would somewhat be manageable on main Puja days. “We just hope the next four days will be little less taxing. We have our fingers crossed,” said a sergeant posted at New Alipore, having a tough time managing crowd heading to Suruchi Sangha and Chetla Agrani.
 
 
