NAGPUR: A public   in obeisance to king Ravana was organized for the first time in the city on Wednesday afternoon at Untkhana Ground, Medical Square. The puja, called as Mahagongo by the tribals, was part of  , where the speakers claimed that Ravan was indeed a disciplined and able leader who kidnapped Sita only to avenge the humiliation that Ram and Laxman caused Shurpanakha, Ravan’s sister.

 “The history of Adivasis has been distorted, and Ravan has been depicted as an immoral deity. However, we follow the original Valmiki Ramayan, which says that Ravan was a religious philosopher, an able military leader and a successful administrator who nurtured Lanka into an admirable city,” Dashrath Madavi, president of Birsa Kranti Dal, who co-organized the event, told TOI. Madavi further said that it is ridiculous to say that Ravan lusted for Sita, when he did not even touch her. “When the two brothers humiliated Shurpanakha by cutting her nose, will her brother not retaliate? Ravan kept Sita in Ashok Vatika and deployed all female workers of his court at her service. But the epics have only shown him to be vicious,” Madavi added.
 
 The one-hour long puja saw nearly 45 Bhumaka, or devoted pandits, take part in the rituals, and had a large attendance of  . After the puja, the guests came forward to give speeches. “Ravan is our king and our God. How can people burn his effigies on Dusshera? While we shouldn’t hurt religious sentiments of others, we should raise voice when our sentiments are hurt. If we don’t fight for our tradition, the next generation will live in confusion,” said Bhimrao Keram, ex-MLA of Kinwat.
 
 At the event, the speakers spoke in veneration of lord Ravana, and criticized the modern epics for showing him in a negative light. . “There is no written rule that Ravana must be burned on Dussehra, and we will be organizing a puja for Ravana on that day. People from the districts will also worship him on Dusshera,” Madavi said. The Parishad was also held in Wardha in the evening.
 
 Other than Keram, Gondraje Vasudevshah Tekam of Gondwana Ganatantra party, Dinesh Baburao Madawi of Adiwasi Pardhan Samaj Sangathana and president of   Madhukar Uike were among the main speakers and guests at the event. The event was a joint collaboration of many social institutions working for tribal welfare and rights.
 
 
