KOLKATA: Here’s some good news for fish-loving Bongs settled outside Kolkata. The State Fisheries Development Corporation has decided to tie up with Bengali associations in four cities — Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai and Pune — and local franchisees to set up ‘All Fish’ restaurants, which will serve both ready-to-eat fish preparations as well as frozen and dressed fish items for home takeaways.

 Officials have planned the launch with a food festival in Bangalore this August. “Our aim is to branch out to Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai and Pune. A food festival will be organised in Bangalore with the Bengalee Association of Bangalore. We plan to set up the first ‘All Fish’ outlet there by this year-end. This will be followed by ‘All Fish’ outlets in the three other cities,” SFDC managing director   said.
 
 Officials plan to do surveys, keeping in mind the concentration of Bengali populations in Delhi and Mumbai, before setting up outlets in these two cities. Stalls in all four cities should be up and running by the beginning of 2019.
 
 SFDC already has an ‘All Fish’ stall at the Nalban food park and another opposite the state secretariat of Nabanna. There is another ‘All Fish’ outlet in Siliguri. “Thirty-two different fish items, based on popular varieties like rohu and katla as well as the not-so-well-known ones like   or milkfish, can be found in ‘All fish’ outlets,” an official said.
 
 The news has already warmed the cockles of the fish-loving probasi Bengali’s heart. “It would be great to have such an outlet. Price is not a problem. The problem in Bangalore is that fish parts are not usually sold; we have to buy the entire fish,” said  , a private firm executive settled in Bangalore for two decades but having roots in Howrah’s Shibpur.
 
 “Prices of fish are much higher here in Delhi compared to Kolkata. A kilo of katla can cost around Rs 560 here when it would cost Rs 400 in Kolkata. A government-run stall here would be a great help,” said Aditi De, now a Delhi resident but originally from Salt Lake.
 
