MUMBAI: This is perhaps the most stressful period in  's captaincy stint. Many have blamed him for the unceremonious exit of previous coach  , with former India skipper   even saying the   (CAC) would only name the new coach after "explaining the role of a coach to the Indian captain."

 Now that Kohli's favoured choice,  , is back as coach, is the captain under added pressure to prove the critics wrong? On the eve of India's departure for Sri Lanka for a long three-Test, five-ODI and one-T20 International series, Kohli, looking refreshed after enjoying a 'break' in the US, seemed unperturbed.
 
 "I only have the bat in hand and my job is to go out there on the field and control what's going on the field. That's something that I've to focus on, and from the last few months I continue to do so. There's a lot of speculation and those things are not in my control. So, as I just said, my job is to go on the field and try to build the best team along with the management and try to perform. That's my ability, which I believe in," the 28-year-old said, when quizzed about the challenges of putting the 'coach controversy' behind him.
 
 Kohli also made it clear that Ganguly's comment was unwarranted, especially with Shastri in the coaching role. "We have worked together for three years ­ from 2014-16. So, there should be that kind of understanding (between us), that you can also understand. So, I don't think that I need to understand anything new about (coach and support staff) in this scenario. As I've already said, we had worked earlier also, we know that what's expected, what's going on in the plate," he said.
 
 Kohli shrugged off the idea he was feeling any added pressure given the events of the past few weeks. "I don't think there is added pressure because what has to happen will happen. I believe in that regardless of what happens around in the outside world," he said. "As a team we aspire to achieve what we want to achieve. Everyone has faced hardships in the past, criticism and being criticised is nothing new. I certainly don't take any added pressure because the responsibility has been given to me. I continue to take up that responsibility, will continue to do so in the future till I am captain or I am kept at this position. If you focus on all these external factors, it is similar that you go out for batting thinking what if I get out, it can happen in any scenario, you need to take care of your mindset and move forward."
 
 Careful to not ignite fresh controversy, Kohli was tactful when asked about the coordination between players and support staff. "I think understanding and communication works in every walk of life. It's not just confined to cricket. (We) follow the same rules of life, I followed everywhere else. I don't see anything different that can be elaborated on this. Everyone is gone through experience, relationships, somewhere or the other in life, the same rules applies here, you know it is as simple as that, the coordination, communication. What do you think.... you want to get it through my mouth... you can say it yourself," he mumbled to the reporter who threw up the question, before breaking into a grin.
 
 Kohli recalled how India's last trip to Sri Lanka, which saw them recording a rare historic overseas win 2-1 after losing the first Test, was special to him and his team. "If you look at the average age of that team, players have matured. It's been 24 months, that tour was start of the belief system we can win away from home," he said. "We showed more belief in our abilities and that we could win from any situation and that really turned our mindset around. From then on, you see the results that we had so far," he added.
 
 
