BHOPAL: A day after   activists allegedly forced a   to close on  , the   on Thursday ordered an inquiry. A CBSE board exam was on when the saffron ranks allegedly created a ruckus. 

 District education officer Dharmendra Kumar Sharma confirmed that an inquiry has been initiated. "No one except for the government has the right to force a school to close. What the activists did is absolutely wrong and we will take strict action once the inquiry report comes. We are also questioning the school for violating the government (holiday) calendar," he said.
 
 On Wednesday, Bajrang Dal activists gathered at Campion School, one of the oldest missionary schools in Bhopal, and reportedly started shouting slogans, forcing the management to shut it down immediately.
 
 On Thursday, the school condemned the act and demanded an official inquiry and immediate action. The school pointed out that it was open only for CBSE's Class XII biology paper.
 
 "We strongly condemn the undemocratic act because it was not in our hands to close the school since we were bound to stay open for the Class XII biology paper. Besides, we told them that we had declared a holiday on Tuesday for Ram Navami but they didn't listen to us," said Fr Athnas Lakra S J, principal, Campion School.
 
 Asked if the incident had any impact on exams, he said students would have been disturbed had the school not shown the saffron workers the hall where students were writing their exam.
 
 "The activists left the campus only after seeing the students in the hall. This was a violation of CBSE exam guidelines. They can't enter the exam centre by force. But we were bound to show it to them because it would have hampered the exam otherwise," he said. CBSE has not taken any action so far.
 
 The Bajrang Dal activists stormed into the school at 10.30am, shouting slogans. As news about the agitation spread, parents made frantic calls to the school. Police also arrived but the Bajrang Dal activists left only after seeing the exam hall.
 
 "Kendriya Vidyalayas in all of Madhya Pradesh were open on Wednesday because of exams. Does that mean they too have hurt religious sentiments? Why was our school targeted. Is it because we are a missionary school," asked Fr Lakra.
 
 Bajrang Dal district coordinator Lokesh Malviya refused to comment on the issue.
 
