
 
  Parrikar: I don’t feel it is difficult to run this government, otherwise I would have not done it. In fact, we could put the alliance together in less than 24 hours. Rather, in 16 hours we got the support letters and we went to the governor to stake the claim.
  
  
 
  
  Parrikar: There are differences everywhere. For example, even in case of a political set up, within a political organisation itself, there may be ideological differences. Basically, there would be ideological differences between two political parties. But they can work out the common programme. Here, in our case, too, we will come out with a common minimum programme.
  
  
 
  
  Parrikar: I was very confident because it was they (coalition partners) who took the initiative that if you make   as the chief minister then we are ready to support the BJP government. They have specified this in their letters of support, submitted to the governor
  
  C
 
  
  Parrikar: People who do such things see the world through their own eyes. If Rahul Gandhi checks up, the past Congress governments had scams of thousands of crores. CBI cases are going on in defence deal scams also. CBI is investiating into several other scams that took place during their (Congress ) regime. People who are habituated doing such things, talk in such terms (money). They know it better. I don’t have that reputation nor do I have that habit.
  
  
 
  
  No, it is wrong. Don’t take it that way. I had said that in your own place any one is like a king but when you go into a ocean you don’t feel the same. Or you don’t feel you are a king there.
  
  
 
  
  We will detail our vision in the common minimum programme. But people also need to see it. If you remember, in 2002, when I got the second Patto bridge open for public, there were a number of people in Panaji itself who opposed it. Some even went to court. Today, in less than 12 years, the same people say that bridge is not adequate. Now, we are constructing the Mala bridge and people are silent. They have now realized that this bridge is absolutely essential. So, there are people who don’t have a vision and there are people who have a very short vision. There are a variety of plans that we have for the state. We want to save envrionment. The other is infrastructure, the other one is employment. Goa needs employment and for that the state needs skill upgradation of our youth. The present day education we are providing is not enough for skill development.
  
  
 
  
  Things which I don’t intend to do, they are not very important to me.
