CHENNAI: The   police on Sunday detained Santhosh, the son of wanted land mafioso  , at Chennai airport as soon as he arrived in the city by a flight from London via Colombo, and questioned him at length about his father’s current whereabouts and activities.

 Investigators interrogated Santhosh, an MBA student in London, after his father mysteriously slipped under the radar of both   and police officers who were keeping tabs on Sridhar’s involvement in underworld goings-on in the country and abroad, an investigating officer said.
 
 A senior police officer said initial investigations revealed that Sridhar is now operating out of Dubai. He said informants had recently disclosed that the don may have travelled to Sri Lanka a few months ago.
 
 “We grilled Sridhar’s son to check if he was aware of his father’s location,” the senior officer said.
 
 A police team was keeping track of Santhosh and detained him on his arrival in Chennai on the suspicion that he may be in the city to execute a deal on behalf of his father, the investigating officer said.
 
 After questioning Santhosh for more than five hours in Kancheepuram, investigators checked his electronic messages, including those on WhatsApp, and call details, hoping to make a breakthrough in their pursuit of Sridhar.
 
 Police had in February detained Sridhar’s daughter Dhanalakshmi, 22, a BBA student in the UK. Dhanalakshmi was about to board a flight to Dubai via Colombo when officers of multiple security agencies detained her. Sources indicated that detaining and questioning Sridhar’s closest family members could be part of a police strategy to pressure the don to return to the country.
 
 Sridhar headed to Dubai in 2013, following his release from prison after serving a six-month jail term in one case, and has not returned to India since. Police believe he is is now involved in a racket involving the supply of diesel for generators to construction sites in Dubai.
 
 The ED and police have attached more than 125 of Sridhar’s properties worth Rs 150 crore after a court in Kancheepuram declared him a proclaimed offender.
 
