They say there’s nothing like travel to reconnect with oneself. Perhaps, nobody will understand this better than actors, who spend the better part of their days as someone else — in front of cameras, telling unreal stories, playing characters far removed from self… That explains why, when they are not caught up with the rigours of TV, our small-screen actors prefer to take off to their favourite locations — not only to spend some quality time with family, but also to travel on the road to self-discovery. We spoke to a few of them about their journeys — both outside and within… 

 
 
 
 
  
  
 Salil Ankola, currently seen in ' ', took off with his wife ( ) and children — son and daughter — to Mahabaleshwar for five days recently. This was the couple’s first outing since their marriage, five years ago. Salil says, “We were so busy with our respective careers that we couldn’t even go on our honeymoon. Now that everything is settled, I decided to take sometime off and go to Mahabaleshwar with Ria. The added advantage was that our children joined us.” 
 Salil wanted to time the trip with his wedding anniversary on August 29. However, he had to alter the plan because of his daughter’s exams. The cricketer-turned-actor has now vowed to go on more such trips in order to spend uninterrupted time with family. “We plan to go on another trip soon and again during New Year’s. Short breaks help you to relax and rejuvenate,” he says. 
 So, is there any chance of that much-delayed honeymoon trip happening finally? “Ab kya jaayenge (laughs)? But I can say that I finally went on my honeymoon five years after marriage,” he replies. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Whenever he is not shooting, Ruslaan takes off with wife  . This time around, he went to Paris and made sure he returned with some memorable pictures of their sojourn. He says, “Since I wasn’t doing a show, Nirali and I went to Paris; she also took time off from her work. I wanted to do something special with her with the Eiffel Tower as the backdrop. So, I requested my photographer friend to click some pictures. We were made to wake up at 6 am for the session.”
 What works for the couple is their love for travel. “We have travelled so much that we can turn guides for first-timers. In fact, our friends joke that we keep going on honeymoons, but there is no sign of a child, yet. I too have lost track of the number of honeymoons we’ve had (laughs). I guess, there’s still time for kids.”
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  is making the most of her free time. The actress, who was seen in 'Badtameez Dil' almost a year-and-a-half ago, is currently on a break. She says, “It’s not that I am not working. I am busy with projects in the South. I will take up only interesting concepts on television; I have declined a lot of mundane offers.” Is she not worried about offers drying up eventually? “There is a risk of being out of sight, but I am not easily forgettable (smiles),” comes the reply. 
 Meanwhile, Asmita has used her free time to travel across Europe and the US. Talking about her penchant for travelling, she says, “I love to explore the world. After meeting new people, you realise that you are actually living in a shell. Travelling is soul-stirring and enables self-discovery. It widens your horizon, too. Now, I know that my world isn’t limited to this industry and that life has much more to offer.” 
 
 
 
  
  
 After her show 'Trideviyaan' wrapped up,   took to a hobby she loves the most — travelling. So, off she flew to London. “I’ve learned more through travelling than books or the internet. Travelling exposes you to new cultures and also teaches you to handle various situations in foreign lands. It feeds my soul and is a transformational experience. Most importantly, you get the best pictures to flaunt. What more does a girl want? (laughs!)” she signs off. 
 
