The proposal to reduce holding period for an immovable property to two years from three years for considering capital gains tax and extending infrastructure status to affordable housing segment could come as a shot in the arm for the beaten-down real estate sector in the state.

 The realty sector in Rajasthan which was already underperforming compared to other cities in the country is optimistic that bringing down the holding period will again kick start sale-purchase activities while increasing liquidity in the market.
 
 “After demonetization, transactions in the real estate market have almost come to a halt. Now, people can sell properties after holding for two years instead of three years for avoiding capital gains tax of 20%. This will increase liquidity in the market,“ said Abhishek Mishra, director of a leading real estate company in Jaipur.
 
 Similarly, the Budget has proposed a series of incentives for the affordable housing segment to realise its mission of `Housing for All by 2022'.Extending infrastructure status to the segment means the project will have easy access to bank loans at cheaper rates.There are several other financial incentives that the promoters of affordable housing projects can claim.
 
 In last year's Budget, the government had announced a scheme for profit-linked income tax exemption for promoters of affordable housing scheme. However, in order to make this scheme more attractive, the Budget has propo sed to change the parameters.“Instead of built up area of 30 and 60 sq metre, the carpet area of 30 and 60 sq metre will be counted,“ Jaitley said. In order to be eligible, the scheme was to be completed in 3 years after commencement but now this has been extended to 5 years.
 
 “The carpet area calculation will make affordable houses more liveable and expand the base of customers. This will create lot of job opportunities in rural areas as well.At present builders are required to pay taxes even on unsold houses. But they will get one year relief after they get completion certificate,“ said  , a real estate consultant.
 
