AJMER: The state government has set the ball rolling for mega renovation of world's only   in  .

 The dream project is very close to the heart of chief minister   who had guided and oversaw it from its conceptual stage.Raje has set a stiff deadline for the ambitious project and wants to make the new temple complex operational before Kartik Purnima in 2018. The   coincides with Kartik Purnima which nor mally falls in the last week of October.
 
 According to Ajmer collector and commissioner of temple trust Gaurav Goyal, the renovation work will be carried out by Rajasthan State Road Development and Construction Corporation. “The tenders have been floated for the purpose. The government has already prepared a Detailed Project Report (DPR) and Rs 24.06 crore have been earmarked for the work,“ he added.
 
 Currently, the temple complex is sprawling over 2 hectares of land. However, the new complex will be constructed over 9 hectares which will abode multiple gardens and world-class modern amenities. The surplus land was either encroached upon or lying unutilized. So the extra land will be used for the beautification of this religious place.The gardens will have vedic era tree Kalpavraksha, lotus and rose plants. The gaushala and yagnashala will have arch-shaped pathways showcasing vedic era to devotees.
 
 Goyal said, “Currently, there is land available on the southern side of the temple.There was a garden on this land. So this unutilized land will be handy for the project,“ he said.
 
 Goyal, who had proposed the project, said, “The new temple complex will house entry plaza, open air theatre, spiritual park, central plaza, covered and uncovered pathways, shops for flowers, water fountains, lift for senior citizens and physically challenged persons, a cowshed, a kitchen and a place for havan,“ he added. Throwing light on the deadline to complete the project, Goyal said, “Raje wanted to make the new temple complex operational before Kartik Purnima next year.She not only wanted beau tification of the temple but also world-class amenities for devotees, both domestic as well as foreign,“ he said.
 
 According to a temple priest, currently, the temple has a few facilities.Despite, Pushkar being an important place for Hindus, there is no lift or cloakroom for devotees. The proposed facelift will enrich the experience of devotees, he said.
 
 A local resident said, the proposed renovation of the temple will make it a major tourist destination.
 
 Complex inspired by  's Akshardham
 
 The design of new Brahma temple complex is inspired by Akshardham temple of Gujarat that gives devotees an experience of ancient that gives devotees an experience of ancient India. The model adopted by the architect will describe the air, space, sunlight and green belt management.
 
 At present, a large number of pilgrims and even foreign tourists visit Pushkar every day.Many foreign couples come to Pushkar to have their marriages solemnised as per Hindu traditions. Tourists, who come to Pushkar, complain of lack of facilities in Brahma temple as there are no lifts for elderly, no cloakroom and no toilets.
 
