PATNA: Residents can expect some relief from the surging mercury for a couple of days around this weekend as the Patna Meteorological Centre has issued a forecast and warning for thunderstorm along with dusty winds starting Saturday.

 Ashish Shankar, a weather scientist at Patna Meteorological Centre, has attributed the expected thundershowers to Nor’wester – sudden summer showers, which is supported by a cyclonic circulation in the region. 
 
 “There is a strong weather system comprising convective clouds on the foothills of Himalayas, close to the Nepal-Bihar border. The system is expected to enter Bihar any time now. Another system of convective clouds is active over neighbouring Jharkhand, which too would lead to moisture incursion in the lower level of atmosphere. Besides, a cyclonic circulation is also located over east Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The three systems are together expected to lead to thundershowers along with dust storm at isolated places, primarily in north and east Bihar,” Shankar said. 
 
 The weather scientist added that the thundershowers are expected to be accompanied by high speed dusty winds, qualifying to be Nor’wester thundershowers. Nor’wester is a weather system that brings sudden thunderstorm activities in summer season, which do not last more than an hour or two.
 
 The national weather agency, India Meteorological Department (IMD), in its all-India weather bulletin issued on Thursday, has also stated that an upper air cyclonic circulation was prevailing over Bihar and neighbourhood extending up to 0.9km above mean sea level. The weather bulletin further stated that thunderstorm and gusty winds are likely at isolated places over Bihar on Saturday. 
 
 Forecast of showers apart, most places in Bihar are reeling under hot and dry weather conditions from the past few days owing to the continuous Celsius surge. Patna is witnessing sub-40 temperature conditions and weathermen have claimed that corresponding discomfort index is being recorded at 30%, translating into mental and physical stress. Discomfort index indicates the combined effect of maximum temperature and the day’s relative humidity on the human body. 
 
 Also, though the actual temperature is being measured around 40-41 degrees C, ‘RealFeel’ temperature, as calculated by private weather agency Accuweather.com, is being recorded around 44-48 degrees C. The ‘RealFeel’ calculated by Accuweather.com uses multiple factors including the temperature, humidity, cloud cover, sun intensity and wind to explain how hot it feels outside. 
 
 
