GURUGRAM:   on Thursday started construction of the remaining portion of   ( ), nearly a month after clearing the last hurdle — rehabilitation of   of Rambir Ki Dhani. Officials said the stretch is likely to be completed in the next one month.

 The completion of SPR will resolve the connectivity problems of new sectors 58-80 and connect Golf Course   with NH-8, reducing the traffic load on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway. It will also benefit real estate projects being developed along SPR.
 
 The 16km-long SPR, which originates from Gurgaon-Faridabad Road near Ghata and meets NH-8 near Kherki Dhaula via Sohna Road, was held up over rehabilitation of 14 oustees at Rambir Ki Dhani, obstructing the road for an 800-metre stretch. Huda rehabilitated the SPR oustees in Sector 49 in the first week of March and demolished the structures few days ago, paving the way for completion of the city’s important infrastructure project.
 
 “We have started the construction work on the remaining portion of the SPR at Rambir Ki Dhani and expect to complete it within a month,” Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav told TOI. He said completion of SPR will improve connectivity of Golf Course Road, Faridabad Road, Sohna Road and nearby areas with NH-8 and will reduce the traffic load on Delhi-Gurgaon expressway.
 
 Residents of new sectors have welcomed the development. “The completion of the road will be a great boost for people living in different sectors along the SPR. It will improve connectivity and make these sectors as preferred areas to live in,” said Suresh Sharma, a resident of Sector 66.
 
 “Once completed, vehicles coming from Faridabad and Golf Course Road side will be able to go directly to NH-8 near Kherki Daula, bypassing existing parts of the city, MG Road in particular. So it will reduce the traffic load on MG Road to a large extent as well as other parts of the city,” said Punit Mishra, a resident of Sector 67.
 
 Huda had conducted a draw of lots for allotting alternative plots to the oustees of SPR project in August 2016. However, oustees, who were given alternative plots as per the Relocation and Rehabilitation Policy of the state government, filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court demanding benefits in accordance with the final terms of settlement prepared in May 2015 for oustees of Northern Peripheral Road (NPR).
 
 On September 9, 2016, the HC directed Huda to provide all benefits of FTS to the oustees of SPR, at par with the oustees of NPR.
 
