KOLHAPUR: The   ( ) is incurring losses of over Rs 50,000 per day for the last one week as over 30 drivers and conductors are not coming to work.

 Members of the transport committee are angry over the poor management of the transport administration in the   (KMC) and have threatened their workers to immediately come back to work or stringent action will be taken against them.
 
 Meanwhile, the data obtained by TOI from the KMT office reveals that around 10 to 36 buses have not come on the roads in the last two weeks causing a daily financial loss from Rs 15,000 to Rs 50,000.
 
 Chairman of the committee   said, “While we are trying to cover the additional losses, some workers are not coming to work for a couple of weeks now. Though we have recently cleared salaries worth Rs 50 lakh, we have been told that these workers are protesting against delay in their salaries.In the last two years, we have always ensured that the salaries of the employees are given on time. 
 
 “At the same time, we are planning to terminate the employees who are absent on a frequent basis. A list of such employees has been prepared and we will be issuing a last warning to them to join the work or else they will have to face the action,” he said.
 
 “In the current year financial budget, KMC has approved grant worth Rs 8 crore to the KMC administration. The salaries and pensions of KMT’s 1,000 odd employees was the major reason for approving the grant. On the other hand, the transport committee members claim that the transport service cannot run effectively unless they receive proper funding for a looming expenditure on expenditure on salaries, maintenance and fuel cost. 
 
 On Sunday, 36 buses were off the roads and KMT incurred loss worth Rs 1.14 lakh. More than 30 drivers and conductors did not come to work. “As per our investigation, around 30 workers will be terminated from their jobs,” said Khan.
 
 The KMT administration claims that the proportion of permanent workers staying from work is more than the daily staffers. They are planning to start the recruitment process for 50 drivers and conductors very soon. 
 
