AHMEDABAD: In a unique way to offer farewell gift to innovation curator—Professor Anil Gupta—the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad (IIM-A) has decided to fulfil his wish to inaugurate two ‘Pyaaus’ or   besides the entry gates of old and and new campuses of the institute.

  The construction of two Pyaaus started on Saturday—the last day when Prof Gupta bade an adieu to the institute after serving nearly 36 years at the Centre for Management in Agriculture of the IIM-A. The Pyaaus will be officially inaugurated by Prof Gupta and Commander  , chief accounting officer at the IIM-A, on Sunday.
 
 Sources in the IIM-A said that Prof Gupta had moved the proposal to build the Pyaaus to promote brand IIM-A for social cause before the members of the IIM-A board of governance which was held before the convocation ceremony on March 25. 
 
 Prof Gupta in a message to the IIM-A community also appreciated the ‘farewell gift’ to him. “Let me mention first the gift that I got today. The IIM-A has decided to inaugurate  , (or) drinking water points outside the IIM-A gate. The pedestrians will find water to drink and quench their thirst. In the process, they will have absorbed a bit of the generosity of a public institution, willing to listen and leverage positive suggestions,” reads the message written by him.
 
 “Imagine India in a few years’ time when every public and even private institution will make it a part of SOP ( standard operating procedure) to provide drinking water outside its wall to people passing by. It will surely reduce the use of plastic water bottles, make city cleaner, quench the thirst of even those who cannot afford to buy water bottles, and who knows, may also sow the seeds of compassion,” it adds.
 
 Sources in the IIM-A said that it was the first such unique gesture where the institute gave farewell to its retiring faculty by opening up drinking water points which would not only quench the thirst but would also increase the thirst for innovations for the betterment of the society.
 
 IIM-A director   said it was Professor Gupta’s idea to build drinking water points at the institutes’ gates.
 
