KOLKATA: After questioning eight persons, including doctors and   staffers for the last two days, Phoolbagan police on Sunday indicated it may summon a few top hospital administrators to understand the rationale behind the billing process.

 Police indicated it was keen to understand how the hospital fixed rates for certain medical procedures and diagnostic tests. Prima facie, this has thrown up a lot of contradictory statements and versions. 
 
 Police also hinted it may summon  , former CEO and president of the   (East), for questioning. Basu wasn’t available for comment. A few other senior administrators too figure in the police wish-list. “We will continue to assist the ongoing multi-agency probe,” said a senior Apollo official, requesting anonymity.
 
 Police on Sunday summoned five persons from the hospital, including two doctors. The two doctors appeared before the cops on Sunday afternoon and were quizzed for around three hours. Of the other staffers quizzed, one was a billing section executive; the other two are mid-level administrative staffers.
 
 Police refused to put a time-frame to the questioning. “The complaint lodged by Sanjay Roy’s wife Ruby can be broadly broken down into three specific allegations: negligence, wrong treatment and demand for money,” said an investigator. “We are now recording the statements under Section 161 CrPC by all the persons involved in the process for over a week. This will continue.”
 
 The police investigation, sources hinted, will draw a lot of weight from the six-member probe committee report constituted by the state health department, which is likely to be submitted to chief minister   on Monday. The 250-page report (as reported by TOI) has already faulted Apollo on several counts — from delay in initial treatment to nearly 30% overbilling. The cops are seeking legal opinion on the case. The Apex court, it has been informed, had on two occasions categorically ruled out any knee-jerk action on doctors on negligence complaints.
 
 In a 2004 judgement, the Apex court said: “For every mishap or death during medical treatment, the medical man cannot be proceeded against for punishment. Criminal pro-secutions of doctors without adequate medical opinion pointing to their guilt would be doing great disservice to the community at large.” The next year, the court had said: “So long as it can be found that the procedure which was in fact adopted was one which was acceptable to medical science as on that date, the medical practitioner cannot be held negligent merely because he chose to follow one procedure and not another and the result was a failure.” 
 
 “The medical report, therefore, is very important,” said a senior cop. Some doctors have also sought legal opinion after police summoned them.
 
 
