BHOPAL: A major   of the state, Hamidia, serving a good number of people for more than 50 years every day, is now bursting at seams with patient load. This is the situation for months on end. It is not an outcome of   major disease, but engendered by a   in  .

 The sheer number of patients is more than the hospital, desperately trying to set its house in order, can handle. This is largely a result of patients brought in by 108 ambulance from the two hospitals: JP Hospital and Katju hospital. JP Hospital refers around 40% of its patients and Katju Hospital refers around 60% of its patients.
 
 Faheem Khan, spokesperson, dial 108 ambulance driver’s committee, says: “We have taken nine patients to Katju Hospital in last 10 days. Of these, five patients were directly referred to Hamidia hospital. Of 10 patients who were taken to JP Hospital, six were referred to   without even diagnosing them.”
 
 Faheem said, “Many times when we take a patient to JP Hospital for treatment, doctors even without seeing the case tell us to take patient to Hamidia Hospital stating unavailability of surgeon to treat. In some cases it so happened that the patient before reaching Hamidia, turned serious and died on the way.”
 
 Talking to TOI, Balram Upadhyay, medical officer, JP hospital, says “On many occasions in the past, we asked our doctors to provide first-aid to any patient who was brought here. Only when they are unable to treat a patient, they refer patients without seeing.” 
 
 He says: “Yes, we are facing a shortage of surgeons. We have just two general surgeons in the hospital. We don’t have cardio-surgeon. We have been requesting the government and health department to give us surgeons. There is no eye surgeon in the hospital now.”
 
 Dr Asha Choudary, superintendent, Katju Hospital, says “We lack facilities. Katju is just 20-bed hospital where we can just perform normal and C-section deliveries we do in normal course. If a serious case comes to us, we just provide primary aid and refer it to Hamidia. Government should improve facilities in hospital. We don’t have ICU in the hospital.”
 
