PUNE: A   has issued a   against   and two civic officials over a complaint that they failed to prevent a developer from going ahead with the construction of a mega housing project despite an interim order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) bench here in December 2015, restraining such construction activity. 

 “The process against the three public servants will be subject to sanction/approval from the appropriate authority,” judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) V B Gulve Patil ruled on July 25. 
 
 The city engineer and the assistant municipal commissioner at civic body’s Tilak Road ward office are the other two officials facing the conditional process issued under Section 204 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 
 
 Legal experts said the sanctioning authorities in the case of the municipal commissioner are the state and the central governments. In the case of the city engineer and the assistant municipal commissioner, it is the PMC general body. If the sanction is given, these civic officials will have to appear before the   against the summons and present their case, experts said.
 
 The magistrate also issued a process against the construction firm, Goel Ganga Developers India Private Limited, and its three directors, who will now have to appear before the court on a date intimated through the court’s summons.
 
 Gulve Patil referred to the green tribunal’s interim order of December 23, 2015, and the evidence led by complainant Tanaji Gambhire.
 
 “Prima facie, the complainant has made out grounds to issue process against accused nos 1 to 4 (the firm and its three directors). Accused nos 5 to 7 are shown to be public servants, hence, it would be proper to issue conditional process subject to approval of the appropriate authority, in accordance with law,” Gulve Patil held. 
 
 Lawyer Sachin Bhalerao, speaking on behalf of Goel Ganga’s director Atul Goel, said, “The JMFC court’s order is for the purpose of investigation into the (complainant’s) allegations. Such an order does not prove any violation of the National Green Tribunal’s directives. We will go into a revision of this order before the sessions court. There is no case of violation and we respect the law.” 
 
 In November 2016, Gambhire had filed a plea through his lawyer Shriram Pingle seeking the JMFC court’s directions for prosecution of the firm, its three directors and the three civic officials under the provisions of the National Green Tribunal Act in relation to the violations committed between December 23, 2015 and September 27, 2016, when the NGT passed its final judgment in the case. 
 
 Gambhire claimed that the interim order was in operation during this period while the developer claimed that all interim orders ceased to have force on September 27, 2016, and that an appeal against the green tribunal’s ruling was pending before the Supreme Court.
 
 The civic body’s law officer, Ravindra Thorat, said, “We will look into the court’s order and challenge it in the appropriate court.”
 
 
