Vadodara: A case of cheating and criminal conspiracy has been registered against five persons including an Non Resident Indian (NRI) at   police station. 

 The complainant Bhadresh Desai, a resident of Ahmedabad, told police that the accused had prepared bogus documents and were not returning the money that had changed hands during a land deal stuck between them last year. This is the same land deal case wherein the then crime branch police inspector,   was booked for cheating and threatening.
 
 Desai alleged that he had signed a deal with Bramhani Buildcon that paid him money in 2015. 
 
 Bapod police inspector, A V Parmar said, “We have booked Ratilal Patel, Jyoti Patel, Amrish Patel, Ena Patel and Govind Patel who later prepared bogus documents and refused to go ahead with the deal despite money being paid to them. Rahul Patel was booked in the same case inquiry of which is being done separately.” 
 
 The accused allegedly demanded more money from Desai and refused to sign sale deed.
 
 The land deal had come to limelight last year when the then crime branch police inspector Rahul Patel was booked for cheating and also threatening Ratilal. Ratilal had filed a complaint against Rahul and three others at Bapod police station in June last year alleging that the cop that threatened him and forced to sell his land in Sayajipura to a firm. 
 
 Ratilal had said that Rahul had threatened him implicate him in false cases if he didn’t sign the deal.
 
 Ratilal had also told the police that he had stuck a deal of his land with J N Corporation in 2012 and the latter had agreed to pay Rs 35 crore. However, J N Corporation failed to pay the money following which they asked Ratilal to sign a deal with another firm Bramhani Buildcon.
 
 The complaint stated that Ratilal signed a deal with Bramhani Buildcon in May 2015 for Rs 53 crore. The buyers paid Rs nine crore to Ratilal and the remaining money was to be given by post-dated cheques. Ratilal had alleged that Bramhani owners deliberately closed down the bank account from which they had issued cheques worth crores. 
 
  then filed an application against Ratilal in December 2015 following which Rahul and allegedly forced him to sign deal with another firm   for Rs 35 crore.
 
