If   Arun Jaitley’s last two Budgets were about giving evaders a chance to come clean by paying additional tax and penalty, his fourth 
  has focused on introducing measures to squeeze unaccounted money and discourage the use of cash across the economy — from a 
  to restricting tax deductions if you make cash donations to charitable institutions. 

 In addition, the government has decided to launch an offensive against those who have fled the country by arming itself with legal powers to confiscate assets of persons such as Vijay Mallya, Lalit Modi or even Dawood Ibrahim. Although Jaitley promised constitutional safeguards against potential misuse, it is not clear if the law will apply retrospectively. 
 
 In line with the recommendations of the Supreme Court appointed Special Investigation Team on  , the government proposes to bar cash payments of over Rs 3 lakh to a person in a day. The limit will apply to single transactions, say purchase of a high-end watch or jewellery, or an event, such as payments to a wedding planner or property broker. For any breach, the penalty will be equal to the value of the payment, unless it can be proved that there were “good and sufficient reasons” for the cash transaction.
 
 Perhaps the biggest 
  , where the limit on anonymous cash donations has been slashed from Rs 20,000 to Rs 2,000; names of donors who breach the ceiling will need to be disclosed by political parties. Any donation above Rs 2,000 will have to be made by cheque or through electronic means. 
 
 A new electoral bond that can be purchased from designated bank branches and can be used for making   by those who do not wish to disclose their identity. The bonds would have to be deposited in a political party’s designated account and be redeemed within a stipulated time. 
 
 There are disincentives for professionals and businessmen receiving cash payments beyond Rs 10,000. Similarly, there are disincentives — such as denial of depreciation benefits — for businesses to pay in cash for purchase of plant and machinery or other capital expenditure. 
 
 Income tax officers can now reopen tax cases which are up to 10 years old if search operations reveal undisclosed income and assets of over Rs 50 lakh. Currently, tax cases that are up to seven years old can be reopened. 
 
 Cash donations of over Rs 10,000 to charitable institutions will no longer be eligible for deduction. Tax authorities will also be given powers to conduct surveys on premises where “activity for charitable purpose” is going on.
 
