NEW DELHI: The flow of notices and letters from the   administration has clearly not abated. On Monday, the JNU Students’ Union president Mohit Pandey received one from the registrar threatening “disciplinary action” if the union didn’t end “public meetings/ demonstrations/ dharnas etc. near the administrative block...as per JNU rule.”

 In another sign of escalating tensions between the administration and agitating students, the former has sought police presence for the executive council meeting on Tuesday. “We’ve been asked to take care of the law and order arrangements, adequate measures will be taken to ensure that no untoward incident takes place,” says a senior police officer from the south district. The police will be stationed at the gate and enter only if called in. 
 
 The nine students suspended for allegedly “disrupting” the academic council meeting last week, were scheduled to appear before the enquiry committee on Monday. They didn’t and submitted a “representation” instead.
 
 However, students will return to the administrative block on Tuesday to protest at the   meeting. On January 2, the JNUSU had organised a 'resistance vigil' at the administrative block with representatives from several teachers’ associations, academics and poets. The area now has a board saying, 'hunger strikes, dharnas and other peace and democratic forms of protest and group bargaining shall be conducted with restraint, i.e. at a distance of 20 metres away from the administrtion and academic complexes.' “Such threats show the administration wants to destroy the idea of the university. It is working like an outsider,” says Pandey. He and the students suspended for the AC-meeting protest will be back at the administrative block on Tuesday for the executive council meeting.
 
 The suspended students - mostly from Birsa Ambedkar Phule Students’ Association (BAPSA) - refused to appear before the inquiry committee. “We haven’t done anything wrong or undemocratic. These are false allegations. There’s a contradiction in the administration’s own versions of what happened - one of the meeting was disrupted, in another the meeting had been concluded. If we are guilty, where’s the evidence?” argues Mulayam Singh, one of the nine suspended students.
 
 Their representation, he says, has to do with minority deprivation points, implementation of   reservation in recruitment of associate professors and professors and against fee-hike. But their main beef is with the weightage to viva-voce in admission into research programmes. The academic council apparently ‘adopted’ the   regulations on this from May 2016 precipitating protests. The regulations reduce the entrance test to a qualifying one with 50% as qualifying mark for all categories of applicants. The merit list will be drawn up only on the basis of the interview, effectively making viva-voce the sole criterion. This, students argue, will radically increase the possibility of bias and subjectivity in the selection process rather than decrease it which a diminished viva-voce-weightage would’ve done. 
 
