PUNE: The resounding performance in the civic elections is likely to give confidence to the eight   MLAs in the city when they start preparing for the next Assembly polls.

 BJP's performance in the civic polls was outstanding with wins in 98 seats out of 162. In Parvati, Kothrud, Shivajinagar and Vadgaonsheri assembly constituencies, barring a few seats, BJP was able to grab most seats. In remaining 4 constituencies, which includes Pune Cantonment, Kasba peth, Hadapsar and Khadakwasla, the party clinched top position in those areas that were strong bastions of NCP and  . Increased voter base and representation of corporators across constituencies is likely to boost prospects of BJP and its MLAs.
 
 Political observers say that BJP’s performance will benefit the party at least for next few years as the partymen will now be able to set up a base of workers in areas where party was comparatively weak in last many years.
 
 Observers pointed out that BJP was never strong in city’s outskirts like Vadgaonsheri, Baner, Balewadi, Ahmednagar Road and Hadapsar. This time it has not only gained significant votes in these areas but now it also has a sizeable number of corporators there which could impact local politics in the coming days.
 
 A senior BJP leader said, “Civic poll results will set a different trend in city’s politics. The city was dominated by NCP and Congress for many years. People have rejected these parties and have given a clean majority to BJP. In 2014 assembly elections, the party won all 8 assembly seats but was not strong at the ward level. The polls have given a clean mandate to BJP and its party members.”
 
 In Parvati assembly constituency, which is represented by MLA Madhuri Misal, BJP won 24 seats out of 27. Similar performance was repeated in Kothrud and Shivajinagar with party wining over 90% seats.
 
  said that the party would benefit from the civic polls. “Though assembly and civic polls are fought on different issues, the party has performed well in last three major elections, including Lok Sabha, assembly polls and civic polls. In last local polls, the party’s performance was dismal. This time it has hardly lost any seat in Shivajinagar area,” Kale said.
 
