Pune: To keep their pandal decorations relevant while resonating a social message, most Ganesh mandals are opting for themes on issues like demonetisation, farmers’ protest for loan waiver, superstitions and female feticide, among others, for the Ganeshotsav.

 Like every year, mythological scenes will dominate the pandal decorations in the fringe areas and rural parts.
 
 City’s prominent idol maker Satish Taru said he intentionally chose themes that have been in the news to keep the decorations relevant. “The mandals from the city mostly choose decorations that are offbeat and convey a message. The mandals from surrounding villages prefer to keep it traditional,” Taru, who has been in the idol-making profession for the past 45 years, told TOI.
 
 Depicting the struggle of the Modi government to sail through the demonetisation period, Taru has made a boat with images of Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 pasted on the outside with the Prime Minister sitting in it holding the oars. 
 
 His creations also comprise an idol of Aamir Khan promoting the Paani foundation. “I started making these idols almost five months ago. Before finalising the themes, I went through newspapers and TV channels every day to understand the issues, which held public attention and also had a lingering effect,” he added.
 
 Just like last time, many mandals are opting for Baahubali-themed decorations this year too. “The film’s scene with Prabhas standing on an elephant with one leg on the trunk and another on the head has been replicated by the idol makers. These are mostly bought by the mandals. The ones that are kept at home are mostly the traditional ones,” Pravin Bavdhankar, a craftsman based in Mundhwa, said.
 
 Though quirky decorations are the talk of the town, they have not been able to displace the traditional ones. Scenes depicting Kaus wadh, Shankar Tandav and saint Tukaram’s Vaikuntha Gamana will also be seen.
 
 “Mythology can never go out of fashion. The quirky themes change every year, but the scenes from mythological stories are here to stay. Though many mandals in the city have moved on to unusual themes, the mythological ones still find takers,” Narendra Pandare, a craftsman who has been in the profession for 30 years, said.
 
 
