NAGPUR: Maharashtra government, on Thursday, informed the Nagpur bench of   that it would be appointing an officer from local municipal bodies to conduct a survey of ‘out of school’ children from 0-14 years, within a week.

 A division bench comprising justice Bhushan Gavai and justice Indira Jain then adjourned the hearing of a PIL alleging government’s failure to ensure that children, particularly of tribals and those on streets, are getting basic school education as mandated under Right to Education (RTE) Act.
 
 Earlier, the government wasn’t ready to conduct such a survey stating that the Act prescribed survey of children from 6-14 years. It informed that around 56,628 children were found to be ‘out of school’ in state during the statewide survey conducted on July 4, 2015. It added that the responsibility to maintain a record of all such kids is entrusted with the local authority ( ). When these children attain age of three years, they’re being surveyed by the ‘State Women and Child Development Department’ till age of six. The government then tracks such kids and also provides early childhood care.
 
 Petitioner’s counsel Firdos Mirza pointed out that only after completion of survey of children from 0-14 years that the government could actually identify how many students are ‘out of school’ and among them how many fall under the category of physically handicapped or mentally challenged.
 
 During last hearing, the judges rapped government for not submitting a detailed survey of “out of school” children in the age group of 0-14 years. They were disappointed over that fact that government submitted figures of survey of kids between 0-3 years instead of 0-14 years. They warned to summon concerned state secretary if survey report was not submitted in proper format before deadline.
 
 Pointing out several flaws in the first survey of ‘out of school’ who are deprived of even the basic school education, Mirza pointed out that it lacked the column for differently abled children, including handicapped, mentally retarded, and even those suffering from autism.
 
 
