NEW DELHI: India’s spiritual and wellness traditions will form the highlights of tourism ministry’s   campaign that will be launched by President Ram Nath Kovind on  , this year.

 The revamped version of the government’s marketing initiative to promote India as a preferred tourist destination for global audiences will focus on far flung monasteries in Lahaul Spiti, and Ayodhya, the centre of the disputed Ram temple-Babri Masjid site, apart from the usual pilgrim favourites like Varanasi, Mathura and Ajmer.
 
 Yogi Adityanath’s  , home to the Gorakhnath Math, will also feature prominently on the list of tourist attractions that will be pushed in the Incredible India 2.0 campaign.
 
 Sources said while the government will continue to highlight tourists attractions for their natural beauty and flora and fauna, the PMO has put in a special word for the inclusion of Ayodhya, the birth place of Lord Ram, to be promoted as a tourist spot for the global audience.
 
 In addition to launching a revamped website for the Incredible India 2.0 campaign, the government will also launch the ‘Adopt a Heritage’ project, which entails encouraging students and private organisations to participate more actively in the maintenance of Indian heritage.
 
 A senior government functionary said, “The idea behind the initiative is to create a sense of belonging among people for India’s heritage. The plan to involve students, especially, focuses on the idea that they will, after being attached to a heritage project, grow up into responsible adults who will learn to preserve and protect their heritage.”
 
 Sources in the ministry of tourism said Incredible India 2.0 campaign will focus on developing at least 10 cities where it will promote their   quotient and also develop their medical and wellness potential. The “holistic development model” of 10 cities have been identified in Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Haryana, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat.
 
 At present, five cities have been picked from UP — Ayodhya, Agra, Mathura-Vrindavan-Govardhan, Varanasi-Sarnath, and Gorakhpur. Kurukshetra, Guwahati, and Kanyakumari have also been identified for developing tourist circuits. Rishikesh, for instance, will not only offer 'adhyatm' to the tourists it hosts, but also offer traditional wellness programmes that tourists can enrol for. Kerala, likewise, will not only be promoted for its natural beauty, but also for it's ancient ayurvedic healing systems.
 
 A ministry official said, “The ministry has set itself a target of completing this exercise of developing cities on this format by October 2018. The prime minister’s office has issued clear instructions that multiple ministries will have to work together in order to ensure that collective targets are met.”
 
