For the frontman of the travelling  ,   coming to Hyderabad “is like homecoming”. “And I return whenever I can get a chance to,” he says, after a mesmerising performance of his compositions based on Rumi poems in Persian, English and Turkish languages. We find the Iranian musician and theatre artiste soon reminiscing those good-old student days spent in the   (UoH). “Back then UoH wasn’t torn apart by political differences,” says the artiste, who pursued his masters in Theatre Arts from UoH and lived in the city between 2010 and 2013. 
Khezeli admits he and his wife   felt like complete aliens during their first few weeks in the city. But it didn’t take much time for them to fall in love with the city and its people. 
 “When we reached Hyderabad, we were completely lost. We didn’t know anyone here and communication was a big problem. We were weak in English too. But as we got used to Indian culture and lifetsyle, we felt right at home. I think there is a lot of similarity between Hyderabad and Iran. Most of the monuments in Hyderabad like Charminar and Golconda Fort are influenced by Iranian architecture. And with Irani chai, haleem and biryani, how can an Iranian not feel at home in Hyderabad? I was so intrigued by Hyderabadi biryani that I had it for breakfast, lunch and dinner for two days!” says the artiste, who now can speak, well, little bit of the local languages. 
 “Thoda thora Hindi samajhta hai. Telugu kumchom kumchom, safe to say not at all. It’s one of my wishes to learn Hindi before my death. I like Telugu, but Hindi is sweeter,” he quips.
 During his stay here, he also explored Indian music, which helped him widen the horizons of his endeavours in music, he says. “During my stay here, I tried my hands at Carnatic music, learnt tabla, and a little bit of the bamboo flute. But I can only say I am acquainted with Indian music, I haven’t even begun studying it. Also, in the University once, there was a Persian music concert held in the campus, for which we worked with Indian musicians. Some of my friends picked up our music too. It was a great experience teaching each other our country’s music. And at the end of it, when we played, the audience was in awe of the sights and sounds of the Indian musicians playing in Iranian style,” says Khezeli, signing off still seemingly nostalgic. 
 
 
