The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC)   at Nigdi has a sprawling five-acre fruit orchard in its backyard — complete with 70  , 96 jamun trees, 80 jackfruit trees, 60 almond trees, several banyan trees and scores of medicinal plants — thanks to the untiring efforts of its  ,  , for almost two decades.

 Since 1999, Shirsat has planted around 2,000 saplings on the water treatment plant’s premises, nurturing each with the love and attention he would give his own children. And, all this after his duty hours. Impressed by his dedication, PCMC has now decided to hand him over the task of beautifying its sewage treatment plant at Kasarwadi.
 
 “I mostly love fruit trees as it attracts the birds. They come here in search of food. Bulbuls, cuckoos, sparrows, parrots and even peacocks regularly build nests on these trees. It gives me immense pleasure to hear them chirping around the plant. That’s why I began by planting fruit trees,” shared Shirsat.
 
 The 57-year-old PCMC employee had been transferred to the electrical department of Ward F around eight months ago. But he hasn’t let that dampen his green spirit. He has stuck to his daily routine. Before reporting to work at 10.30 am, Shirsat spends two hours in the morning at the Nigdi garden daily, watering the trees, cleaning and preparing the saplings. And when he is done with work at 5.30 pm, he comes back to tend to them. Shirsat has even created a small nursery there, making saplings out of used fruit seeds like mango, guava, cherry, chikku, jamun, jackfruit, almonds and so on. Every year, plantation work is carried out in the first week of June, right during the onset of monsoon. And this year would be no different.
 
 Pravin Ladkat, executive engineer, PCMC’s water supply department, was all praise for him. “Shirsat is a true nature lover. He cares for the plants like he would for his babies. He is very hard-working and dedicated. So, the civic body supported him. Almost 99 per cent of the trees he planted here have been conserved by him. Now that PCMC is looking at tree plantation and conservation in its Kasarwadi sewage treatment plant, and has given him this responsibility, Shirsat is busy making saplings for the new location,” he said.
 
 Shirsat began his PCMC service in 1987 as a pump operator after passing out of an Industrial Training Institute (ITI). He belongs to a farmer family from Indapur, but settled in Chinchwad for his job. The Nigdi plant is spread across almost 35 acres. But, most of the land was either barren or full of weeds. Having agricultural roots, Shirsat always thought that if there was abundant land and water, it could be used for plantation. He shared this thought with his senior Ladkat. Being an environmentalist himself, he was only too happy to comply. The uneven land portions at the plant were levelled with the help of bulldozers. All the unwanted weeds were removed and the land was handed over to Shirsat for beautification.
 
 In 1999, the first year, Shirsat planted around 350 trees. He used to water them with a bucket and never used treated water for the plants. Apart from his duty hours, he used to spend most of his spare time in the garden. “Shirsat never demanded anything from us to create this beautiful verdant space within the water purification plant campus. At the initial stages, he used to collect the discarded drums of the civic hospitals, cut them in proper shape and plant the saplings in them. He used the rejected pipes of the fire department drip irrigation at the garden. He built everything here from scrap material,” recalled Ladkat.
 
 
  Various fruit trees
 
 But what got him to nurture plants in the first place? Shirsat laughed, saying, “My father was a farmer. During my weekly offday, he assigned farming tasks to me, apart from looking after the buffaloes and cows. I used to love that and have used that skill here. Daily, I made five to six saplings, which I planted here right before the arrival of monsoon. Now, the civic body has even given the drip irrigation facility for watering the plants. The manure is also made here for the trees. We have never purchased anything from outside.” Shirsat is also a member of Nisarg Raja Mitra Mandal, an environmental group, where he guides his fellow colleagues about drip irrigation techniques. Together with Shirsat, the group has planted several trees near the Ayyapa Temple on Dehu Road.
 
 The beautiful garden naturally attracted several visitors. Even students came here for their botanical projects and were impressed by Shirsat’s work. Ladkat spoke of his other laurels, saying, “Former PCMC commissioner Dr Shrikar Pardeshi had honoured him with the title of the best civic employee, offering him Rs 20,000, which he donated to the farmers of his village. I know him for a long time and am deeply impressed by his dedication and immense love for nature. I was very touched when, even after his transfer to another civic department, he asked for permission to visit the garden. He voluntarily invested four hours to maintain this garden.”
 
 The only thing that pricks Shirsat sometimes is that he could not give enough time to his family owing to this passion. “My wife, a teacher at a municipal school in Pimpri, used to get irritated whenever any guest came home, because I was never there. But, at the same time, she feels proud of me as well.” Shirsat has a son and a daughter, who is married. His dream after retirement is to continue with his tree conservation efforts.
 
 ¦ Shirsat is a true nature lover. He cares for the plants like he would for his babies. He is very hard-working and dedicated. So, the civic body supported him
 
 – Pravin Ladkat, executive engineer, PCMC
 
