Just a month removed of WWE SummerSlam, WWE build up a stacked card for No Mercy with two potential WrestleMania worthy main events in   vs John Cena and   vs  . Intercontinental Championship was also on the line and so was the RAW Women’s Championship in a fatal-five way. 

 We bring you the results: 
 
 
 
 
 Strowman put on an incredible show and even had Lesnar on a two-count early in the match. He popped right back up after a German suplex to hit Lesnar with a chokeslam and then the running Powerslam. Lesnar was being laid to waste but he got the opening with a Kimora lock on Strowman for a long time. Strowman slowed down and then ate four straight German suplexes and Lesnar’s third attempt at lifting Strowman finally paid off with an F5 ending the match in Lesnar’s favour. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Neville dominated and toyed with Amore for the majority of the match before he got hold of the title and threatened to use it on Neville. The referee intervened and got the title out of Amore’s hand, but with the back turned the official did not see Amore’s low blow on Neville, and a roll up meant Amore went home as the new cruiserweight champion 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The match had a lot to live up to and it did in a short but eventful match. It was all counters with Cena hitting Reigns with a total of 4 AAs - one even from the middle rope. Reigns kicked out after each AA. Cena on the other hand, survived Superman punches and countered many more – one he caught Roman in midair and transitioned in to a fireman’s carry for an AA. The fight spilled outside and Cena ate a spear on to the Spanish announcer’s table, yet managed to a couple more AA in tandem, but that did not stop the Big Dog. A shocked Cena then was hit by a superman punch and a spear and that was the end of it. Reigns walked out the winner and Cena was given his due respect.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Match with a lot of big spots, the biggest being Nia Jax being powerbombed on to the apron with assists from all the other four participants. Banks looked the strongest in the match and she has the match in the hand when she had Bayley in the Banks statement. Bliss though managed to find a way to get on top and with a quick DDT on Bayley, got the pinfall victory to retain her title.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Tag team match at its best and sure did Shemaus and Cesaro show why they are the bar. Cesaro was busted open and lost two of his teeth on a slingshot on the ring corner but continued on. Sheamus was as powerful as ever while Ambrose and Rollins put on a good show to retain the title in a good chaotic finish. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Balor the man, was attacked before the match by Wyatt and for a while to looked Balor had legitimately got injured but he was back up and in a decent to and fro match, Balor without the demon got the better of the Eater of the Worlds and an extra high Coup de Grace could a signal that this is the end of this feud.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Jordan put on a fantastic show with variety of suplexes and offenses with the numbers game have to catch up with him at some point or the other and it happened when Jordan has Miz on a roll up. The referee was distracted by Bo Dallas on the ring apron and if that was not enough, Curtis Axel got a cheap shot in allowing Mix to hit the Skull Crushing Finale and retain his title
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Crews got some TV time but Elias is the one with the push among the two and naturally it was Elias who walked away with the victory with the Drift away finisher. Elias went after Crews even after the match prompting Titus O’Neal come to the rescue. 
 
  
  
 
