GUWAHATI: Notwithstanding the elusive Unesco World Heritage Site tag, chief minister   on Tuesday launched an initiative to develop Majuli, his constiuency and also the seat of  , as India's first carbon-neutral district and the state's first biodiversity heritage site. 

 Coinciding with the celebrations of   Day of Forest here, Sonowal underlined the importance of making the people of Majuli aware of these plans and take them on board for effective implementation. Sonowal electronically launched a registry on Majuli biodiversity district. The registry would record and analyse the climate impact of all proposed projects in Majuli.
 
 It is to be mentioned here that the Sustainable Action for Climate Resilient Development (SaCReD) Initiative is developing pathways to ensure that   in Majuli is low carbon. "Further declaration of Majuli as a Biodiversity Heritage Site (BHS), the first in the state, enforces the rich biological diversity in the wild, cultivated areas of the island and cultural heritage of Majuli," said the chief minister's office. 
 
 Sonowal, while saying that steps must be taken to generate more awareness among students to conserve nature, directed the forest department to celebrate the International Day of Forest in every school of the state from next year.
 
 Underlining the state government's goal to make 'green Assam', Sonowal said everyone has to conserve nature and urged all parents to gift one sapling to their children on their birthdays and inspire them to plant trees. He added that human beings are the worst degraders of nature and ecology. "Hence, it is a challenge to conserve nature but with continued support of people, the government would be able to achieve its goal of a pollution-free state," he added. .
 
 Reiterating that tourists visit Assam to see its wildlife and nature, Sonowal said continuous degradation of its ecology would adversely affect the state's economy. Majuli is facing existential crisis and therefore initiatives like designating a carbon-neutral district and biodiversity heritage site are the need of the hour to preserve Majuli's rich heritage and legacy, he added. 
 
 Sonowal highlighted the importance of bamboo plantation for the growth of the state's economy. He said the government would invest more in the organic sector like bamboo plantation to revitalise the bamboo-based industries in the state. 
 
