LUDHIANA: Dehlon police on Tuesday booked three brick kiln workers for the murder of their co-worker Balram (21) from Bhutan -- a village in Ludhiana district -- after his body was found in a small stream in the village. Cops suspect a drunken brawl led to the youth’s murder. The accused were identified as   of village Gadla, Dabbu of village Baban, and Rinku of Hassanpur in  .

 In his complaint, Balram’s father Johny said the accused worked with his son at the same brick kiln, adding that on December 26, the accused with an intention to kill his son, took him along with them at around 6.30pm. He said even as they asked the accused the whereabouts of his son, they did not disclose anything. He added that on Monday at around 9.30am, while some children were playing near a small water stream in the village, they saw a body in the water and informed the villagers.
 
 Johny said after that, he and some villagers rushed to the spot and found it was his son’s body without clothes. He added that his son’s jacket was burnt, suspecting Balram might have been burnt and then thrown into a small stream. Cops from Dehlon police station reached the spot and started a probe. They booked the accused under sections 364 (kidnapping), 302 (murder), 201 (destroying evidence), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.
 
 Investigating officer of the case,  , said the accused were on the run, and raids were being conducted around the area to arrest them. He added that the post-mortem examination of the deceased was done by doctors at Civil Hospital on Monday, and the report was awaited. Police said Balram’s family belonged to Uttar Pradesh, and had shifted to the village about three months ago to work at the kiln. They added that the deceased and accused had entered into a brawl after getting heavily drunk some time ago. Singh said preliminary investigation suggested that the accused had a minor brawl with the deceased after getting drunk, but the matter was not reported to the police.
 
