BENGALURU: Despite the late but half-hearted effort from the   ( ) officials, there was no luck for India's Chitra PU, Asian Champion in women's 1500m, as her name was missing from the list of entries for the World Championship released by the   on Saturday night. Also missing from the list was men's 1500m Asian champion Ajay Kumar Saroj.
 
 But there was a big surprise in store as the list featured the name of   in women's 3,000m steeplechase along with Dutee Chand in women's 100m. The AFI selectors had excluded Sudha along with Chitra and Ajay but it is now clear that the same officials quietly forwarded the entry of the steeplechaser even as its president wrote an open letter arguing the reasons on why she was omitted.
  
 "The cat is now out of the bag as Sudha's name features in the list along with Dutee Chand. It looks like AFI officials pushed the veteran athlete's entry while ignoring the claims of 1500m men's and women's champions Ajay and Chitra respectively," sources told TOI.
  
 They said though the IAAF list is final Chitra and Ajay could still be granted an entry if the AFI officials including its president, who is a member of the high-power IAAF council, show some resolve. "The AFI president is a member of the council so if the AFI officials want they can still manage a late entry for these two athletes," sources added.
  
 They said despite the claims by AFI that they were trying their best with IAAF to get an entry for Chitra nothing much has happened. "Now that the Kerala high court has pulled them up the Federation officials want to save face. So as if heeding to the sports minister's request they went public with the news of their best efforts," sources said.
  
 Earlier, union sports minister Vijay Goel advised the AFI not to appeal against the high court verdict in the Supreme Court. "Shri Goel talked to AFI president Shri Adille Sumariwalla on the issue and advised him not to contest the directive given by the Kerala high court as   is otherwise a wild card entry for the World Championship," the sports ministry said in a statement.
 
