DEHRADUN: The president of the All Uttarakhand Parents’ Association (AUPA), Neeraj Singhal, miffed at political parties for not fulfilling the long-pending demands of the association, has joined the electoral battle in the state.
 
  Singhal filed his nomination as an independent candidate from Dharampur assembly constituency of Dehradun on the last day of the nomination on Friday. Dehradun mayor   ( ) and sitting MLA Dinesh Agarwal (Congress) are contesting from the seat considered to be a   bastion.
  
  The head of the parents’ body is likely to present a tough fight as he has the backing of the association which has over a lakh of parents as members. The association was constituted in 2008 and has a presence in at least 36 assembly constituencies. The association has been demanding setting up of a regulatory body to keep a check on the private/public schools in the state.
  
  The members said that the politicians have betrayed their trust and the private schools regulatory body has not seen the light of day despite the draft being ready since last year.
  
  Talking to TOI, Singhal said, “My sole aim is to ensure that a member of the parents’ body gets a seat in the assembly so that we can push for an act that would pave the way for a regulatory body/commission so that parents do not have to bear the hegemony of the private/public schools and there is complete transparency in the working of all private schools. I want Dehradun to continue being recognised as an education hub.”
  
  Singhal added, “Many times, there have been talks of setting up the regulatory body but it has not been formed due to vested interests of politicians as children of many ministers and bureaucrats study in these schools.”
  
  Singhal was the district convenor of the BJP’s education cell earlier and recently resigned from the party after Umesh Agarwal, who the AUPA was supporting, was denied a ticket. “There are over nine thousand families in the Dharampur constituency and we will find many parents willing to support us. The constituency has more than 50 schools and most parents would want to support someone who is fighting for their issues, irrespective of the party,” said Sudesh Uniyal, general secretary of AUPA.
  
  On January 20, the AUPA had written a letter urging BJP chief   to consider Umesh Agarwal’s candidature on the Dharampur seat and had threatened that the parents’ body would consider fighting elections if Agarwal was denied ticket.
