NOIDA: A Delhi-based lawyers’ group has extended legal support to Zohra, the 30-year-old   who was at the centre of the recent unrest at  .

 The slum in   Sector 78 where Zohra lives was, meanwhile, tense throughout Friday with rumours swirling around of a plan to raze the 30-odd tenements that house around 120 people. Women who work in housing society flats in the area said they had heard from their employers that such a plan was being hatched. 
 
 Police said they would provide security to the slum but a TOI team that visited the slum in the morning and evening found no cops posted there. 
 
 Zohra’s husband Abdul Sattar said he had little faith in the cops, accusing them of ignoring the assault case filed by him against the Sethi family, his wife’s employers at Moderne, and carrying out a one-sided probe. He also alleged that the local police station, at Sector 49, hadn’t registered his complaint when he went there on Tuesday night to report that his wife was missing. “Why didn’t they start a search for her immediately? Instead, they handed me a note of the documents I needed to file a complaint,” he said.
 
 Sattar said a Dial 100 police team had advised him to file a complaint with the local police station after it visited the Sethis that evening. The Dial 100 team visited Moderne in response to Sattar’s call, spoke to the Sethis and left. The Sethis have accused Zohra of stealing cash from them. Harshu Sethi, who lives in the flat with her husband Mitul and son Aryan, claims she had confronted Zohra about stealing Rs 17,000 and that Zohra had admitted to taking Rs 10,000.
 
 Zohra, however, alleges she was assaulted by Harshu when she asked for her salary — Rs 12,000, due for two months — and kept in confinement. Sattar claims this needs to be investigated, and the police were overlooking this, just because the complainants are poor and there is a bias against them.
 
 What happened between Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning, when the mob set upon Moderne, remains foggy. It is believed Zohra landed up at the apartment of Sucheta Singh, an elderly lady, she knew — on the 25th floor of a tower different from that of the Sethis — said she was feeling unwell and stayed there. Internal footage shows her being escorted out by guards at 6.08am on Wednesday on the corridor of this floor, just outside the flat of Singh in whose house Zohra was found.
 
 Police said they were looking into every aspect of the case. Love Kumar, the district police chief, said Zohra’s allegations of confinement and assault were incorrect. 
 
 “We are probing if the allegation of theft against her is true,” he said.
 
 Parshuram, SHO of Sector 49 police station, said, “According to Zohra’s medical report, she had no internal or external injury. That allegation is baseless.”
 
 Zohra’s family and members of Gharelu Kamgar Union (GKU), a Delhi-based group that is helping them get legal aid, demanded that the medical reports be shown to them. Sattar also said checking at Moderne was so strict that no one could leave with any unauthorized object, forget a wad of currency notes. He alleged the theft charges had been concocted.
 
 Maya John, GKU’s convenor, said Zohra had been claiming her wages for the past 15-20 days. “The case of theft has been imposed on the victim, post-factum, i.e. only after her torture by the couple came to light,” she said. “In these residential societies, servants are fully frisked before entering and exiting the complex. Police verification is already well-enforced and the entry/exit of workers is fully manned. So the allegation of theft is a farce,” John added.
 
 The Delhi-based Human Rights Legal Network (HRLN), a collective of lawyers and social activists, said on Friday it will extend pro-bono legal support to Zohra and the arrested slum dwellers. “We have spoken to the victims’ family members. The families of arrested people have moved the Surajpur court for bail. We will now take over the matter and provide legal support free of cost,” said Gunjan Singh, an advocate associated with HRLN.
 
 Circle officer Avneesh Kumar said the police are acting neutrally. “We are investigating the cases filed by both sides. We detained 58 persons and arrested only 13 who were actually involved in the violence. The others were let off. Residents living both in the society and the slum will be provided proper security. We will visit the slum on Saturday for a confidence-building measure,” he said.
 
 Asked about the allegation against them Harshu’s husband Mitul told TOI on Friday, “Money was stolen frequently and we recently suspected her (Zohra’s) involvement. My wife decided to report it to the facility management as she would be doing the same in other flats. The domestic help fled from there and led the mob in the morning. This is a lesson for us and we will be careful next time we hire a maid.”
 
 RWAs seek more security from cops
 
 A delegation of the RWA federation met SP (city) Arun Kumar Singh in his office late on Thursday to discuss security for Mahagun Moderne in the wake ofWednesday’s mob violence. The RWA members demanded police verification of all domestic helps and more security in the Sector 78 area where thousands of new apartments have come up and are likely to be fully occupied when the Greater Noida Metro line becomes functional. Among those who met the SP (city) were Federation of Noida RWAs chief N P Singh and secretary general A N Dhawan.
 
 “We pointed out that applications for verification submitted in the police department for workers/tenants are not complete as the papers are not checked systematically. Most of the time, these documents are simply stamped by local police chowki personnel without verification,” said N P Singh.
 
