KOLKATA: The city started soaking in the Durga Puja spirit from dwitiya evening with thousands — many on their way home from work — thronging the pandals to catch an early glimpse of the idols. Few seemed bothered about the fact that some of the major pandals were still incomplete. The themes of various pujas with their photographs widely circulated on social media turned out to be enough to attract revellers.

 Kolkata also witnessed the first Muharram processions on Friday. While the Oudh family procession came out on CGR Road in the afternoon, another taziya travelled along   and went to the Portuguese Church. “It was absolutely peaceful and we are happy that people from all communities came together and cooperated with each other,” said a senior IPS officer.
 
 With the prize-winners of this year’s Puja likely to be declared as early as Shasthi, most of the big organizers worked with tight deadlines so that revellers could step into the pandals by Friday evening. While there was a traffic snarl in the evening on VIP Road with thousands making a beeline for the Bahubali castle built on the   Sporting Club premises, Haridevpur at the other end of the city saw crowds on MG Road making for the Ajeyo Sanghati and 41 Pally pandals.
 
 The police said this was the first time they had to arrange for security on such a massive scale so early into the festivities. “We might be out in full force from Sunday (Chaturthi). On Friday we had to arrange for at least five officers at   besides the civic volunteers. The Haridevpur police had to ask for reinforcements in the evening, but their civic volunteers struggled to manage the crowd near the Karunamoyee crossing — the entry point to the big pujas,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Senior cops confirmed that all the remaining big draws were likely to be ready by Sunday evening.
 
 “There are two reasons why I am out today. I know that today the crowd will be comparatively thin and there will be few restrictions on parking. Additionally, I am leaving the city on Ashtami and I did not wish to be left behind in soaking up the festive spirit of my city,” said  , an IT executive at the Mudialli Club.
 
 Officers at Lalbazar HQ were surprised by how traditional pujas were attracting a higher footfall compared to the last five years. Both Sree Bhumi and Kumortulli Park had long queues at 8.30pm on Friday and the crowds were bigger than at Mudiali. With the district crowd set to join in from tritiya, cops are going back to the drawing board for fresh traffic management plans. “Last year two small pujas — Pallysree at Ultadanga and Jagat Mukherjee Park — sprang surprises. We are readying ourselves for surprises this year too,” said an officer.
 
