PANCHKULA: The district police on Monday booked a resident of   for allegedly   Delhibased entrepreneurs' association of Rs 25 lakh on the pretext of getting it a chunk of  , a  , in Sonipat.

 G S Ghuman was booked in a case of criminal breach of trust registered against him at the Mansa Devi Complex police station. Interestingly, it was one year after the opinion of district attorney and recommendation of economic offences wing that the police registered the case.
 
 The case was registered on the complaint of R K Ahuja, the treasure of Gumming Papers Association, a body of 250 entrepreneurs into the business of preparation of books as well as recycling of papers.
 
 According to sources, Ghu man had come in the contact with office-bearers of association who were looking for a piece of land to shift their business out of Delhi in April 2012.
 
 Ahuja told TOI that Ghuman approached them through a Karnal resident. During his initial meetings, Ghuman assured the association to act as facilitator for them for getting the piece of land from Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) in Sonipat.
 
 “Initially, he took two cheques of Rs 10 lakh and Rs 15 lakh, respectively and presented the two in bank without materializing any deal. We ordered for the stop payment and since then he started threatening of police case and took money in cash. He got us the offer which was not acceptable to us. We asked him to return the money . As he did not return the money , we were forced to move an application in April 2015,'' said Ahuja Ahuja and his men had a horrible time as they had to run from pillar to post in economic offences wing as well as Mansa Devi Complex police station. “Finally we moved another application through police commissioner R C Mishra which led to the registration of the case. Now, we are hopeful of arrest of the accused so that we could get justice,'' he said.
 
 Officials in the Mansa Devi Complex police station said that “investigations have begun and the officials are gathering information about the identity and whereabouts of the accused.''
 
 
