Theatre lovers of Gurgaon were treated to some   at the opening day of Gurgaon Utsav 2017, organized by the   in association with the MCG at the   recently. However, this Shakespearean adaptation came with a desi twist and lots of erotic and sensual dancing on stage. A re-interpretation of Shakespeare's 'A Midsummer Night's Dream', 'Khwaab Sa', directed by Atul Kumar, had a heady dose of laughter mixed with sharp imagery of sexuality on stage. The play told the story of a couple – Lavender and Hamiya – who have eloped into the forest, pursued by Duggal, Hamiya's fiance, and Helun, her best friend. Comedy ensues when, under the influence of a magical flower, everyone falls in love with someone other than their partner. A parallel story had villagers trying to put up a play for the king and his wife  . The dance-drama brought the Shakespearean tale to the rural backwaters of north India.

  
  The play had quite a few in-your-face seduction scenes like this one, where Helun, under the influence of a magical flower, tries to seduce Duggal
 
 
 
  While the rustic tongue of the villagers and the slapstick comedy had the audience in splits, the centre of attention was the boldness of the dance performances, which showed sex acts including an orgy between one of the central characters and forest fairies, an in-your-face seduction sequence, and even a love-making scene between a woman and a donkey.
 
 
  
  The villagers put up a play within the play (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 Talking about the bold themes of the play, director Atul Kumar told us, "Of course, we didn’t want to make anybody uncomfortable. Our aim was to tell this beautiful story in the most creative and aesthetic way as possible, and judging by the audience’s response, I would say we have done that to an extent. All credits to the performers for that!" Even then, there were a few audience members that were uncomfortable, with some leaving the performance midway. "I came here with the kids because I saw it was a Shakespearean adaptation but did not know it was going to be so sexually charged," said a resident who had come with her two school-going sons, but left half-an-hour into the performance. However, by and large, Gurgaonwallahs were in support of the play's bold themes. Sujata, a resident of Nirvana Country, said, "I've seen other plays by this troupe which have been bold too, but definitely, this was much bolder. But I think it was tasteful. The audience in a city like Gurgaon is mature enough to handle this."
 
  
  The dance-drama brought the Shakespearean tale to rural backwaters of North India
 
 
 
  
  Heplata, the king's wife, falls in love with a donkey
 
 
 
  A sudden change in the weather, which brought strong winds, did pose some logistical challenges to the performers since the play was being staged in the open.   Commissioner Sandeep Khirwar, who came to watch the play with his family, said, "I was amazed at the stamina of these dancers. Despite the sudden cold and breeze, which had us shivering, they did a fabulous job." Charu Bali, the commissioner's wife, added, "I loved the play. The way they brought Shakespeare to rural India is fabulous. As someone who is familiar with the original play, I can see how well they have done, while keeping the story and its spirit intact."
 
 
  
  While some found the boldness of the play uncomfortable, the desi adaptation of A Midsummer Night's Dream had the audience in splits (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
  Gurgaon Police Commissioner Sandeep Khirwar with wife Charu Bali (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar
 
 
 
  
  Director Atul Kumar (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
