NASHIK: From a dummy EVM to scarfs and flags of various party colours, the shop next to your place may have it all. 

 In a bid to cash in on the poll fever, local traders are for the first time stacking up election materials. 
 
 Up for sale is dummy EVMs that the candidates can use to educate the voters about its use. This election the voters from every ward have to press the buttons four times, instead of the two in the 2012 civic polls. 
 
 Similarly, the long sleek scarfs for various parties are available, while the flags that can be put up on two-wheelers are also on sale for the first time in the city. The shopkeepers expect demand for election materials to pick up after the nominations are over. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Subhash Bajaj, who has set up a shop to sell poll materials in the run-up to the February 21 battle of ballots, "I am basically into paper and board business, but I have opened shop for election material for the first time. Such products are mainly manufactured in Mumbai and other big cities. We have material that can suit the requirements of all political parties -  ,  , Congress, NCP to MNS."
 
 He added, "This time, we have come up with some new elections materials. Among those are the dummy EVMs priced at Rs 350 each. The candidates may paste their names at the serial number and use those during the campaign period. They can give demo to voters in their respective prabhags."
 
 Bajaj said, "We have VIP scarfs for use by candidates, party office-bearers or leaders during campaign and public rally. Earlier, the scarfs were plain in the price range of Rs 6 to 20 each. But the VIP scarfs, which are made of silk, are priced around Rs 200 each. And these scarfs are of all parties. Besides the flags for bikes, we also have the traditional phetas (caps) at Rs 200 each." 
 
 Another shopkeeper, who did not want to be identified, said, "We bring products of parties that are most popular. This time, 60% of the products are related to the BJP and the Shiv Sena and the rest are of the Congress, NCP and the MNS."
 
 Bajaj, on the other hand, said the traders were expecting the sale to pick up from Saturday.
 
