A powerhouse performer, an intense writer and a fierce feminist — that’s   for us. She is also among the few   actors who take theatre very seriously. In town for the Shakespeare Comedy Theatre Festival, the free-spirited actress spoke to us about gender bias, bullying on social media and her love for Bengali food. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 It was great working with Ritabhari. Her sister, Chitrangada (Chakraborty), is a close friend of mine. I got to know her through Chitrangada. In fact, it was great to do a short film and release it on Facebook on Women’s Day. The topic is very relevant.
 
 
 
 
 I would not say Naked is an answer to any case in particular. This film is about my personal experiences. Ritabhari too would agree on that. It is about getting judged on social media for posting certain things; being quoted out of context — Naked is an answer to that. I am not going to talk about other cases because that’s not correct. 
 
 This is something that affected the two of us...
 
 
 
 
 Today, social media is big and it allows people to be anonymous. People don’t need to take responsibility for the comments they make. We always try to behave much better in public than we do in private. People are often very rude when they are hiding behind their computers.
 
 
 I think fighting for women’s rights is work in progress. Around 100 years back, women could not vote. We can vote now. That took a long fight, you know. Now, pay parity is not there and it is not there in the entire world. That’s another battle which has to be fought. But women are fighting a decent battle.  , Patricia Arquette and other   actresses are talking about it. It is great that the same question is asked in our industry as well. I think any establishment takes time to change. It takes generations. So, maybe the next generation will bring up their boys and girls more equally. Maybe, we’ll see more men doing conventional women’s roles and more women doing conventional men’s roles. It takes several layers of education to bring in change. Some changes have crept up in scriptwriting. Now we have heroines leading the films instead of just the heroes.
 
 
 
 I have faced pay disparity. I don’t think I have been paid more than or the same amount as my male counterparts (laughs). That’s for sure.Also, discrimination is not always so much in your face. People will not always tell you what to do. Many a time you are offered a role where you have nothing to do. You are just a pretty girl. There is no direct discrimination. It is there in our system.
 
 
 
 I guess, I am just greedy (laughs) and I want to do more. I am an actor at the end of the day. I want to go deep into a character. That’s my wish as an actor. But I am not here to change. Maybe, subconsciously, there is a gender battle taking place. But consciously, I am not doing it. I am not like, ‘Yeah, that’s a feminist role and I must do it’. I am feminist by nature because I am a woman and in my best interest I must support women’s empowerment. But no, I am not choosing those roles. I choose roles I feel will be challenging for me as an actor.
 
 
 
 I just enjoy. I think I am a workaholic and I am lucky enough to do a job that I love. Also, acting is one of those jobs where you can use every medium differently. Each medium gives me something new. More than that, I cannot sit at home and do nothing. I’d rather work.
 
 
 
 I have been to Kolkata with my plays. I performed my monologue (A Monologue of Womanhood) here. But my trips have been short and I have never spent a lot of time here. I have been to Jorasanko Thakur Bari — the ancestral home of the Tagore family. Every time I come here, I end up going to different places to eat. My Kolkata trips are usually food-oriented (laughs). 
 
 
 
 
 I love maachher jhol and beguni. I love food cooked in mustard oil. Also, I end up buying sandesh every time I am in Kolkata. 
 You also get great Chinese food in the city. 
 
 
 
