CHENNAI: After Tamil Nadu governor C Vidyasagar Rao on Monday accepted the resignation of chief minister O Panneerselvam and his council of ministers, chief minister designate V K   is awaiting the call from Raj Bhavan.

 The governor has requested OPS and his cabinet to con tinue until “further arrangements are made.“
 
 The state machinery started cracking early on Monday , making preparations for Sasikala's swearing-in at the centenary auditorium of University of Madras, but there was no word from the governor on the date and time of the ceremony till late on Monday .
 
 “We have communicated to Raj Bhavan her election as the legislature party leader on Sunday , and sought an appointment with the governor. We are yet to hear from the Raj Bhavan,“ said a senior minister. Rao, who was in Ooty on Sunday , left for Delhi to attend the wedding dinner of Union minister Prakash Javadekar's son. From there he took a late night flight to Mumbai. Rao was scheduled to attend the annual convocation of Bharathiar University in Coimbatore at 10.45am on Tuesday . “Raj Bhavan told us in the evening that the governor would not be able to participate in the convocation,“ university chancellor A Ganapathi told TOI. Raj Bhavan officials could not confirm if the governor would be back in Chennai on Tuesday . AIADMK leaders said Sasikala will formally stake claim to form the government and furnish a list of cabinet ministers once the governor gives an appointment.
 
 Party MLAs have been told to stay in Chennai anticipating the governor's nod anytime. The same rule applies to MPs as well, even as Parliament is in session.
 
 “We will not attend Parliament till Thursday as swearing-in may happen any time,“ said an MP.Sources in the Union government said they were not amused at Sasikala staking claim before the Supreme Court verdict on the disproportionate assets case, but said the Centre would not stand in her way .
 
 In Chennai, AIADMK leaders were hoping for an early swearing-in. Senior ministers Edappadi K Palaniswami, P Thangamani, K Anbazhagan, and party leader K A Sengottaiyan vis ited University of Madras centenary auditorium where walls were given a fresh coat of paint and seats were repaired. The party , is working out the probables list for the Sasikala cabinet.
 
 Sengottaiyan, a prominent Kongu leader who rallied behind Sasikala and defused a possible revolt, is likely to make the cut.
 
 Also likely on the list is V Senthil Balaji, a close associate of the Sasikala family .Thanjavur legislator M Rangasamy , the brother-inlaw of Sasikala's husband M Natarajan, is also said to be in the race.
 
