BHOPAL: Aiming to connect with 1.5 crore voters of 16 districts through river conservation programme, ambitious  , which began on December 11 last year from its origin in Amarkantak is poised to witness a   in Shahganj, home town of chief minister  , on March 27.

 The much-hyped campaign is BJP’s another major political plank to work in the direction of Prime Minister   and initiatives taken by the NDA government for environment conservation and public welfare. More important is the saffron agenda of social equality, de-addiction and poverty alleviation, which have been given importance in tribal areas by chief minister Chouhan and received a good response.
 
 “We need to save our environment and initiate massive plantation across the banks of river Narmada to save soil degradation. I have started the drive and involved people from across the world for support and I am overwhelmed that the campaign has received such a huge response,” said Chouhan addressing a gathering, on Saturday.
 
 Chouhan’s participation in this campaign attracted a high-level of interest from voters. Chouhan has so far attended 32 rallies and public meetings during the Yatra from the beginning and made 20 major public announcements, which included developing the origin of river Narmada as a major pilgrimage, anti-alcohol and de-addiction drive in all villages situated on the river bank, removal of liquor shops, construction of crematoriums, public toilets, sewage plants, diversion of gutters, plantation of fruit trees and development of ghats and changing rooms for pilgrims. 
 
 “BJP leaders will gather in village Jait, the home of chief minister and join Narmada Yatra. The programme is more social rather than political. Almost all state office-bearers, cabinet ministers and Union ministers from   have given their consent to join the campaign,’, said BJP state vice-president Vijesh Lunawat.
 
 Sources in the party said the state leadership would also plan its main strategy for the assembly election slated for November 2018. The leaders will also try to feel pulse of voters in case there is anti-incumbency and decide political solution for the same. The campaign will run till March 28, they said.
 
 The yatra has so far touched more than 3 crore people in 584 villages of 409 village panchayats in 48 blocks. A clear message from the BJP government to financially support farmers for planting fruit saplings and cease using fertilizers in the area has been lauded by the environmentalists across the country. So far, 37,349 saplings have been planted in 882 village panchayat areas by 1.18 lakh families of farmers in 1.44 lakh hectare area, said officials in Mantralaya. A team of 50 volunteers, experts, social workers and public representatives is travelling with the Yatra to spread the message of water, forest and environment conservation, bio-farming and pollution control, said officials in the Mantralaya.
 
 On Saturday, the yatra covering a distance of 2,444 km entered Sehore district on 97th day through chief minister's assembly constituency Budhni to reach Bandrabhan, a local pilgrimage where Chouhan welcomed Yoga and meditation expert Satguru Jaggi Vasudev of Isha Foundation. Satguru has inspired the chief minister to set up a happiness department in the state for the well-being of the society, which is said to be another socio-political agenda of RSS-BJP government.
 
 To increase participation and awareness, the government has involved 518 public representatives, social workers and renowned personalities and 100 more have promised to join the campaign. 
 
