KOLKATA: Chief minister   on Friday said the   not only safeguards all the social sector schemes-to those pertaining to birth to death-but also created safety nets for those reeling from the demonetization blow. Asked about the debt burden, a confident Mamata said the state would withstand the challenge. 

 "In the last budget, allocation to the schemes were dubbed as election-year gimmick. But this time, we can say Bengal's social sector schemes can be emulated by all," Mamata said.  , she said, had created a whole new challenge: "Many had to shut business and their staffers, in turn, were rendered unemployed. We have created a Rs 250-crore fund to help 50,000 such people start a new livelihood. Similarly for farmers, we have created a corpus of Rs 100 crore," she said. 
 
 The CM did not seem to agree with Union   minister  's assessment that demonetisation fallouts would not stretch beyond 2017-18. "A serious disease needs prolonged medication. Assessment shows national economy has already shrunk by nearly 25%. How can Bengal be any different?" she said. Mamata, however, refused to put any number or deadline to the proposed GST rollout. "We still support it. But our primary concern is the state's revenue loss under GST should be adequately compensated for and the fiscal autonomy should not be diluted."
 
 On debt burden, however, she was rather vocal: "We have introduced fiscal prudence with the FRBM Act. This budget still sticks to it," she said. "The Centre isn't governed by it." In 2006, she said, the Left Front government raised funds from sovereign guarantee bonds. "Now, a decade later, they matured for redemption. In 2017-18, we will pay Rs 47,000 in principal repayment and interest. In a five-year-period, we have to pay Rs 2.53 lakh crore. Our revenue has doubled but after clearing the debt, little will remain," she said. 
 
 Mamata alleged that after  's 1984-89 PM tenure, the Left Front could take the loans, thanks to "a weak Centre". "Is it right to burden a newborn with his/her parents' debt? We have been in power only since 2011. Why are we being penalized for the Left's misdeeds? But we will not beg. We will not wilt. We will do the best we can," the chief minister said.
 
