Tigers, while bringing laurels to Karnataka at the national level, have also turned out to be a riddle for the   (KFD). Ensuring conservation in its true spirit and maintaining the count of big cats across its   reserves, the KFD is haunted by a million dollar question -Why do tigers fight with each other?

  Is there any relation between the spurt in their count and in-fighting among themselves? Even as the world is abuzz with scientific studies about tigers, the Karnataka government on Wednesday claimed that till date there was no scientific study explaining infighting among tigers and that it would require at least 10 years of in-depth study to arrive at a conclusion! The government's candid revelation was part of its written reply to BJP MLC Lehar Singh Siroya's question on sequence of untimely death of tigers in various tiger reserves of the state since January 2017.Expressing concern over the absurd trend, Lehar Singh had asked the government whether it has come to its notice that the spurt in count of tigers had resulted in in-fighting and sought details about the measures being taken up by the KFD to address such a situation.
 
 Replying to Singh's query,   said that since January 2017 a total of 6 six tigers have died in Karnataka's forests and explained that while the reason for the deaths of a few were currently being probed by experts, a few others died a natural death due to old age and in-fighting.Clarifying further, the minister said, “There is no scientific study focussing on the relation between spurt in population and  . Even if one were to find suitable answers for this, it would take at least 10-years for a tiger expert or scientist to study the matter in detail!“ Meanwhile, the minister's reply has left experts puzzled as research activities have been underway across Karnataka's tiger reserves since the 1980s. Expressing surprise over the reply that there is no scientific study on such behaviour of tigers, noted tiger conservationist and director of Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) of India Dr K Ullas Karanth told Bangalore Mirror that he has been studying tigers and conducting research since the 1980s. “I am surprised that the honourable minister was not briefed about projects and their results. I have been studying tiger behaviour and ecology since 1986 through a series of projects. This is the longest running tiger research project in the world.“
 
 Giving insight into in-fighting among tigers, Dr Karanth said, “Tigers compete for space or mates or prey and aggressive encounters occur as a result . Such aggression increases with increasing population densities. Our data on   (Shared with NTCA and the government periodically) show high densi ties sometimes going up to 15 tigers per 100 sq km in Nagarahole-Bandipur. At such high densities, intraspecific aggression and injuries will be high.“
 
 Explaining the relation between the spurt in tiger population and in-fighting among tigers, he said, “Tiger densities are strongly linked to prey densities, at roughly one tiger to 500 prey ratio. I am beginning to worry that excessive habitat enrichment practices such as artificial water supply and creating open grassy areas have increased prey densities beyond natural levels, leading to these high tiger densities. Secondly, this also increases survival of cubs, which is normally low-resulting a large number of juveniles and sub-adults entering the population every year.“
 
 
