CHANDIGARH: Jehangir Khan put Pakistan on the world map in squash. Though   didn't promise any of his players would replicate that in snooker, the manager of the Pakistan squad didn't rule it out either. His reason: "Snooker is bigger" across the border.

 Sitting in the lobby of a plush hotel here,  ,   and Muhammad Rafiq were feeling slightly out of place. It was their first visit to India, and the first out of Pakistan for Naseem and Rafiq - thanks to the Asian Billiards and Snooker Championship being held here. But the trio wasn't used to this attention. They were just getting to terms with being in India.
 
 "Just before crossing the Wagah (border), I told them you won't feel any different than, for example, Lahore," Naveed said, as his players took seats on the other side of the table.
 
 A quick introduction followed; then an addendum: "Rafique is from Peshawar and speaks only Pashto; he understands Urdu, but very little," Naveed alerted before more questions were fired.
 
 The manager then looked around the lobby and continued - this time off the cuff: "In an area of this size in Lahore, we can see around 100 snooker tables."
 
 Naveed was now talking about the sport's state in Pakistan, which earlier had Karachi as the hub of players but now it's the province of Punjab.
 
 "There is no billiards culture in Pakistan. But snooker, it's flourishing. In Lahore every club has at least five snooker tables and it can go up to 10-12 at some places.
 
 "Karachi produced most of the snooker talent initially but then fizzled out because of worsening political condition there. In the meanwhile, Punjab players were gradually improving themselves, especially Lahore. And now it has taken over in a big way. If I can add, the snooker following at the moment is bigger in Pakistan than India," Naveed said.
 
 And the manager added that players have started reaping benefits, though only gradually.
 
 "There are 7-8 players who have got jobs based on their achievements in snooker; some of them are in national banks, one was recently employed by Pakistan's state television PTV. But we need to win international medals regularly for it to happen more often."
 
 By now, the players - Naseem, Tahir and Rafique - had turned into spectators as they watched the conversation grow serious.
 
 The language barrier left Rafique - the Pathan from Peshwar - disinterested, while his team-mates moved eyeballs left and right, doing their best to appear engrossed.
 
 The introduction of Punjabi turned to be the ice-breaker for  's Naseem, the under-18 and under-21 national champion from Pakistan.
 
 "Kiven lag reha hai (how does it feel)?"
 
 "  (like Sahiwal)," Naseem, 16, replied, looking visibly more comfortable. "It's just that the family asked me to be careful as I am travelling out of the country for the first time. But sports like snooker aren't much affected by India-Pakistan political relations."
 
 Tahir, who dropped out of school in sixth standard, is a natural at snooker. "We always had a snooker table at home, with my brothers playing professionally, and I picked up from them," the 17-year-old said.
 
 Interestingly, Tahir was the one Naseem beat to win the under-21 national title. "My family asked me is if it was mandatory to travel to India. I told them it wasn't mandatory but I wanted to go, because I want to play the game," Tahir added.
 
 Their schedule is on a tight leash, playing the opening matches hours after they arrived. Naseem and Tahir won their respective games, but the 14-year-old Rafiq lost.
 
 That leaves any city tours on the backburner for now. Game time first!
 
 
 
