Nagpur: Confusion prevailed among firecracker shopkeepers as the NMC’s fire and emergency services department has declined recommendations to set up stalls in residential and congested areas.

 Referring to high court directives, the fire department has stated that they will issue recommendation letters only if the stalls are set up in open spaces. The city   is the authority to issue temporary licences. 
 
 Police have issued guidelines for setting up of temporary firecracker stalls prior to Diwali. The stall owners are supposed to collect the forms for permission from local police station and submit the same with recommendation letters from NMC’s fire department and a no-objection certificates from nearby   (if the stall is being set up in residential area) by September 19.
 
 But as the fire department is not issuing recommendation letters, the retailers could not approach the police department for temporary licence. 
 
 A delegation of retail shopkeepers led by Virendra Sahu met NMC’s Fire Consultative Committee chairman Sanjay Balpande over the issue on Saturday. Balpande clarified that in 2016, the HC, while hearing a PIL of a Nashik resident, had directed the government to ensure that firecrackers are not stored and sold in shops located in residential buildings and allowed to be sold in open spaces only. 
 
 “As NMC’s fire department is not a licensing agency, it could not allow setting up of stalls. We can only give recommendation letters directing owners of stalls to follow safety measures at their respective shops,” said chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake. 
 
 Even the home ministry, too, had clamped restrictions on the setting up of firecracker shops near residential areas to ensure safety and prevent accidents.
 
 Sahu, however, claimed that the high court is yet to give final judgment. So stopping the recommendation letters while taking the writ petition into consideration is unlawful, he alleged. He claimed that crackers stalls in open spaces are more prone to mishaps whereas there was hardly any incident of fire in cracker shops in concrete structures. 
 
 Their argument failed to satisfy the fire department and Balpande said that they will seek guidelines from the state government, which disappointed the retailers. 
 
 
