KORAPUT: Sajan Dhami, 27, of Siriguda near Rayagada was inconsolable on Monday as he lit the funeral pyre of seven of his family members killed in the Jagdalpur-Bhubaneswar Hirakhand Express near Kuneru station in Andhra Pradesh on Saturday night. 

 "We had planned a visit to our village during Holi but now the most unexpected thing has happened," said Sajan, with tears rolling down his cheeks.
 
 Among the dead, were Sajan's younger brother Viswanath, sister-in-law Karina Devi and their one-year-old daughter Chinu Kumari, another sister-in law Ranjan Devi, cousin Sahi Dhamin, 15, sister Tulsi Kumari, 8, and grandmother Kulo Devi, 60.
 
 The husband of Ranjan Devi, Madan, and one of his cousin were injured in the train accident. They are undergoing treatment at the Rayagada hospital. Originally from Mirzapur village in Bihar's Begusarai district, the family specialised in extracting honey from beehives and had been to Bhawanipatna in Kalahandi district for the past few months in search of work. "I and my family stay at Gunupur and my other family members were in Bhawanipatna. We are engaged in extracting honey from honeycombs in urban areas. A few days back, my brother had called and expressed his desire to shift to   for work," he said.
 
 The family boarded the Junagarh-Bhubaneswar train at Bhawanipatna. This train is connected to Hirakhand Express at Rayagada for a five-hour journey to Vizianagaram.The ill-fated family was wiped out two hours before they reached their destination. 
 
 "They were in the general compartment. After reaching Rayagada my brother had called me and said that they will come to Gunupur to stay with us for a few days. However, in the wee hours of Sunday, I got a call and was shocked to hear that seven of my family members have been killed in the train accident," said Sajan in a chocked voice. All of their belongings that they were carrying to Vizianagaram are missing, he added.
 
 As the mortal remains were consigned to flames, Sajan tried to compose himself as he has to look after his injured younger brother and cousin undergoing treatment at Rayagada hospital. However, the mangled bodies of his family members will continue to haunt him. 
 
 
