HYDERABAD: A   who was ' ' into volunteering for   is fighting  . To make matter worse, the   in the city where he participated in new tests has refused to get him treated for complications that he has now developed. 

 Goud had collapsed while undergoing drug trials in the lab earlier this month. He suffered fits. "I was given some preliminary treatment and taken to a hospital. Thereafter, I was declared alright and I was told there was nothing wrong with my health. But I had coughed blood. My throat is paining severely," Goud told TOI. According to him, he neither got further treatment nor any compensation. He said the lab refused to entertain his request. 
 
 Goud has been volunteering for several new drugs over the years. "But this is the first time that I realized how dangerous it could get," he said. Though he requested the laboratory to show him the CCTV footage of him collapsing to see what had happened to him, the lab reportedly told him that that would not be possible.
 
 Having studied till the Intermediate level, Goud wanted to become a writer in the film industry, but this would not pay enough. This is when he was lured into becoming a guinea pig for drug trials. "I was told that I would get a free health check up. Since it was free, I volunteered," Goud recalled of the first time he went for a drug trial. He underwent two drug trials without even knowing what he had got into.
 
 "I felt giddy. My legs ached. There was a feeling of nausea. I did not know that they were experimenting with new drugs on me," Goud said. When he got the money, which was about 5,000, some six years ago, he felt it was good to sustain himself. 
 
 "I now feel like a male prostitute. The lab took advantage of me and is now leaving me in the lurch when I have health problems. I had never told my family about what I had got into," he said about the clinical drug trials he underwent recently.
 
 The trials happened early this May. Goud continues to remain weak. On Monday afternoon, Goud, seated at Begumpet railway station, said he was thinking of what had happened to him. When he got up, he swooned and fell on the platform. 
 
 "Passers-by came to my aid. Some policemen were also helpful. They enquired if I had food and also suggested that I go to a nearby government hospital for a check-up," Goud said.
 
 Now, he wants justice. Having seen the dark side of clinical drug trials, he shudders at the thought of continuing with them.
 
