PATNA: A Delhi Police special cell team arrested one Akhruzama Khan (40), the alleged kingpin of fake Indian currency notes ( ) racket in India, from   under Rajeev Nagar police station area in Patna Monday night. Fake Rs100 notes of Rs20,000 face value were also recovered from his house. Khan was nabbed following the arrest of Sanjeev alias Mukesh and Arbin with fake Indian currency of Rs6 lakh face value from Sonia Vihar in Delhi on February 17.
 
  Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj said Khan was taken to Delhi on a transit remand on Tuesday.
  
  Sources said Khan, a native of Azamgarh, was one of the masterminds of Pakistan’s   network to fund terror activities in India by circulating fake Indian currency notes (FICN) of small denominations via Nepal. “He had fake notes of more than Rs3.5 crore face value into India within a very short period of time,” said a source, adding that the suspect had links in Lucknow, Azamgarh and Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh besides in Mumbai.
  
  Sources said apart from running the FICN racket, Akhruzama was also running a drug supply chain between Nepal and Mumbai.
  
  The Delhi Police team had to wait for several hours in Chandra Vihar Colony for Akhruzama to come to his house. “Police had earlier attempted to arrest him, but failed to locate his safe house. This time Sanjeev, who had collected the fake currency from his Chandra Vihar Colony residence, located it,” said a source.
  
  Akhruzama’s wife Jasmine Khatoon was also arrested for resisting the police. Jasmine was sent to jail. She is accused in several cases lodged with Rajeev Nagar police station. They constructed a three-storey building in the locality within a few months. The house had places in windows to hide fake currency notes and drugs.
  
  The fake currency note racket was busted after   (NIA) and Border Security Force (BSF) personnel nabbed one Umar Fahrukh (21) with Rs6000 in fake 2000 notes from Malda in West Bengal on February 14. Thereafter, the Delhi Police seized the fake currency in Sonia Vihar, leading to Khan’s arrest in Patna.
