MUMBAI: A big-ticket   has been asked to pay Rs 6.2 crore to nearly a hundred members of a   for not handing over   within the stipulated timeframe. Ironically, the builder had moved court against the residents, claiming Rs 100 crore in damages, after the latter terminated the  

 Residents of Jal Ratan Deep Cooperative Housing Society on New Link Road, Goregaon (W) said they signed an agreement with Kumar Builders Mumbai Realty Pvt Ltd in January 2011 to redevelop five buildings on the society premises for 97 members.
 
 Residents said the builder had agreed to obtain permissions to start construction within three months from the execution of the agreement, furnish a bank guarantee of Rs 18 crore, and complete the project within 29 months.
 
 The residents said the builder managed to get the basic building permission (IOD) only in March 2013, 26 months after the agreement, which itself was flawed as it covered only 56 members and not 97. In December 2014, the society issued a notice to the builder asking him to take corrective measures failing which the agreement will be revoked, resulting in the builder approaching the high court, which directed him to the arbitrator.
 
 Kumar Builders told the arbitrator, Sanjay Kothari, that the delay was a result of the amendment to the development control rules and changes in government policies, and blamed the residents for "not cooperating".
 
 In his order issued on Friday, arbitrator Kothari pointed to a clause in the agreement that said in case the project was delayed beyond 60 days, the builder will be liable to pay the residents a penalty of Rs 10 lakh per week. In this case, the arbitrator ruled that the delay went up to 62 weeks, after which the agreement with the builder was scrapped.
 
 Lawyer Shirish Deshpande, who is advising the residents, said, "This must have been the rarest of rare cases wherein the society firmly resisted a builder's usual delaying tactics, and took a bold decision to not only terminate the agreement but also claim damages."
 
 The society was legally represented by Trushar Bhavsar and Chirag Bhavsar of MDP & Partners. They said that the builder was pressurising the residents to vacate their flats even as he "complete ignored" the agreement clauses, and at the same time, did not even furnish the bank guarantee. Lalit Jain, chairman-cum-managing director of Kumar Builders, didn't answer the calls or responded to messages.
 
