NAGPUR: The state government has finally formed a   (PMC) and Act 2017. It has become effective from July 1. 

 The council and Act are directly expected to benefit the laboratory technicians. The government has laid down the conditions under which every laboratory technician with qualifications of diploma or graduation degrees will have to register with the council to be able to practice as professional technicians.
 
 Dhananjay Kulkarni, the president of Medical Laboratory Technologists Association of Maharashtra (MLTAM), said that the formation of council was made possible thanks to the efforts of the state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari. 
 
 There were earlier efforts to form a DMLT (diploma in medical laboratory technology). But, with over 20 such paramedical courses including diplomas and degrees, it was not possible to have a council for each. Now, all the diploma and degree courses have been brought under the purview of the PMC.
 
 There are about 2,271 pathologists in the state who employ lab technicians for carrying out various diagnostic tests. “We are not covered under the   (MCI) as we don’t practice modern medicine. We only do tests and give the measurements or figures of the data to the doctors who diagnose and treat the patients,” said Kulkarni.
 
 With the formation of the council now even MD pathologists would be required to employ only the registered members of the PMC. 
 
 The council will comprise 17 members. It will include six elected members from the   (ACLAP) from six revenue zones, the director of medical education and research (DMER), the director of health services, the director of Ayurveda, the vice chancellor of Maharashtra University of Health Sciences, the president of Maharashtra Medical Council, five nominated members of the government and the chairman of the council.
 
 The laboratory technicians could have either the Bachelor in Paramedical Technology (BPMT) degree or diploma in 21 different subjects covered under the council. These include   in laboratory, radiographic, radiotherapy, cardiology, neurology, blood transfusion, optometry, plaster, anaesthesia, perfusionist, operation theatre, medical transcription, cytology, histopathology, transfusion medicine, clinical psychologist, endoscopy, community medicine, health inspector, emergency and forensic medicine technicians and diplomas in these subjects.
 
