

 
 This idea of the good immigrant. You start off in the UK as a bad immigrant, here to steal the women, the jobs and an NHS place, and then when you win a gold medal or a TV baking competition, you become a good immigrant. It’s a bullshit binary scale that should not exist.
 
 Whenever you complain about the lack of books by writers of colour in the UK, you are always told people don’t read these books. I thought what better way to show this readership exists than by crowd-funding for a book featuring writers of colour.
 In 2016, only about 100 books out of the thousands that were published were by British writers of colour. Year 2017, on the other hand, has been really good for BAME writers — with authors like A A Dhand and Abir Mukherjee — but it needs to be sustained.
 
  
 
 Kureishi and Naipaul are now part of the (Western) canon. Are they still writing about issues relevant to young and millennial British readers of colour? Where is today’s Buddha of Suburbia?
 
  
 
 I feel like it never really went away. We went through a blissful period of political correctness in the ’90s and the Noughties. I miss those years but maybe it was a plaster.
 
 I think people now feel emboldened by Brexit, by the Conservative attitude towards immigration and by  , to say what they always thought. What we have seen in the past year shows it is as bad as the 1970s. The immigration conversation lacks nuance. People move to escape wars, for economic reasons, for family, and yet the only thing we hear about are the growing numbers.
 
  
 
 They don’t have as many opportunities to be published. Historically, editors found they can’t relate to the characters in BAME books because they are not white. There have been a lot of moves to diversify the workforce in publishing in the UK, and the more you diversify it the more they will find voices that are relatable. I related to Spiderman with his dual identity when I was growing up. There is anecdotal evidence that people of colour work hard to relate to characters not from their background but white consumers can’t because they are so over-represented. The universal experience is written by straight white men and that becomes the default.
 
 I once had a script rejected by a UK broadcaster because they said people don’t relate to an all-Asian cast. 
 
 The actor Riz Ahmed says in the book he just wants to get to a point where he plays a person called Dave.
 
  
 
 There is a lot of institutional stuff in Britain that makes it difficult. I think British colonisation should be taught properly. There are all these statues and buildings named after huge slave traders like Cecil Rhodes and Edward Colston. Their legacy should be appropriately shown rather than heralding them as heroes.
 
  
 
 I was born in Wembley and raised in Harrow. My dad was born in Nairobi and grew up in Mombasa. My mum was born in Aden and went to boarding school in India. Her family moved to   in Yorkshire as it was one of the few places with lodgings for coloured people that my uncle could find. He was the first person to bring a case under the Race Relations Act after he tried to buy a house in Leeds and was refused because he was coloured.
 
  
 
 I have always struggled with dual heritage. It took a really racist EU referendum campaign to make me feel British. There is this tension between feeling British and trolls. The online discourse goes like this. “I was born here.” “That doesn’t make you British.” “I feel British.” “You are not. Go back to brownland.” It has taken me years to feel like I have got a sense of my place in the country and now I am going to fight for this multicultural society that is possible.
 
  
 
 I was told that diversity is on trend right now, but that suggests some people think the current spate of exciting BAME writers is a marketing trend, so what will happen when we are not on trend? I don’t find the word brown offensive but I want to get to the point where I am just a novelist.
 
 
