BENGALURU: The  's directive, putting an end to the   arrest of the husband and family members without inquiry in cases of   under Section 498 A of IPC has not gone down well with women activists in the state. While they worry that it would make victims of genuine cases suffer, advocates of men's rights have welcomed the ruling.

 The SC on Thursday ruled that complaints received by police or the magistrate must be referred to the family welfare committee and no action should be taken against the husband and in-laws till it gives report after interacting with the parties within a month . “There's no decline in neither   cases nor dowry deaths; they have only been sidelines. Now, a woman who has been subjected to dowry harassment has to wait for a committee to approve of her suffering for police to take action. The SC ruling only takes us back to the khap panchayat. Is this the first law that has been misused? What about other laws? What has the government done to avoid their misuse?“ asked K S Vimala from the  .
 
 “If a woman has to wait for a month for the committee to give its report and for police to even initiate action, it only translates into justice getting delayed,“ said Saranya S Hegde, president,  .
 
 But men's rights organizations have hailed the order. “ The misuse of CrPc 498 A was more than its use. Over 98% of the accused have been acquitted and only 2% have been convicted. There have been many men who either committed suicide or attempted it because of the existing rule. It's one draconian act where the onus on proving his or her innocence is completely on the accused,“ said Kumar Jahgirdar, founder president of CRISP (Child Rights and Shared Parenting).
 
 A33-year-old entrepreneur, who was put behind bars under Section 498 A two weeks ago, said: “This rule has been highly misused and I'm a victim. After I proposed divorce, my wife filed a dowry harassment case. With no notice, I was picked by police at 7am and was out only after three days. I have undergone torture in the name of section 498 (A),“ he alleged. He is trying for anticipatory bail for his parents who are being accused in the case. “What if the husband's family, in-laws make the victim withdraw the complaint in a month? What if her own parents do not allow her continue with the complaint? What about the cases of burns due to harassment where police can see the plight of the woman?
 
 Why should a woman wait for a month when she is in trauma?“ asked Saranya.
 
 Bindu Doddahatti, advocate with Alternative Law Forum, said the SC ruling had killed the anti-dowry law. According to her, the 2009 amendment to Code of Criminal Procedure had curtailed the powers of police to arrest a person accused of an offence punishable with imprisonment for a term of or less than seven years. “In the Arnesh Kumar vs state of Bihar in 2014, the SC had ruled that all the state governments must instruct police not to automatically arrest when a case under Section 498-A of the IPC is registered but to satisfy themselves about the necessity for arrest under the parameters laid down above flowing from Section 41 CrPC,“ she said. Section 41 of CrPC pertains to making arrest without a warrant.
 
 Bengaluru witnessed 57 cases of dowry deaths in 2014, and 54 in 2015.
 
