CHANDIGARH: Though Delhi high court on Wednesday cancelled the environment clearance accorded by Punjab government to the   Camelot project, the issue continues to loom large as the builder has been asked to get fresh approval from Union ministry of environment.

 The controversial Rs 1,800-crore multi-storeyed Tata Camelot project at   is seen as threat to the character of Chandigarh as it would lead to construction of highrises that would alter the city’s skyline and hinder the view of the Shivalik ranges from the Capitol  , a Unesco world   site. 
 
 Despite being aware of the development plans in Kansal, the UT administration which is responsible for preserving the architectural character of Chandigarh, is seen to have made little effort to respond to the situation. 
 
 While the Punjab government was pushing for the project in 2008 and 2009, the administration was late to react. To accommodate the project, Punjab government had framed a master plan for Nayagaon and invited objections. The master plan was notified in January 2009, but the administration raised objections later in March by sending a letter to the state government.
 
 The issue was also flagged in the report of the parliamentary standing committee on urban development last year. The committee had criticised the administration for ducking the issues and violating the master plan and inter-state regional plan. The committee also questioned the role of the coordination committee constituted to ensure balanced development in the periphery of Chandigarh.During a hearing, the court had also asked the administration why necessary steps were not taken and why they had not approached the court first. 
 
 Social activist  , who takes up issues related to heritage conservation, demanded that the ministry of home affairs investigate the matter to fix responsibility. “The error occurred as the administration does not have necessary infrastructure to keep a check on unregulated development in the periphery. ” said Jagga.
 
