NEW DELHI: DPCC president   on Wednesday slammed the BJP-ruled municipal corporations and the AAP-led   government for neglecting the residents of the  . 

 “The 44 resettlement colonies in Delhi, which came up between 1960 and 1984, were established by former PM Indira Gandhi to settle lakhs of poor and lower middle class people. The   government had settled 2 lakh families in these colonies, where now nearly 15 lakh people live,” Meken said while addressing a convention at Talkatora Stadium. Thousands of people from areas like Burari, Bhalswa and Badli attended the programme.
 
 Criticising the corporations for not keeping these areas clean,   promised that if Congress comes to power, its main focus will be on providing basic amenities to the resettlement colonies. “If we come to power, we will earmark Rs 2,000 crore solely for the development of infrastructure in these colonies. We will clear the arrears of sanitation workers and regularise all contractual staff. Within two years, we will make the three corporations self-reliant,” he assured.
 
 Maken further said that the Rajiv Ratan Aawas Yojna was started by the Congress government across the country under which plans were made to build around 62,000 flats. It had constructed nearly 1,600 flats. “But despite the Modi government completing three years at the Centre and the   government in Delhi being in power for over two years, not a single flat has been constructed under the Rajiv Ratan Aawas Yojna,” Maken alleged.
 
 People who attended the Congress convention complained about lack of civic amenities and infrastructure in their colonies. “There is no sewer line in our area and as a result, the main road is always waterlogged. The slush and the stink have made our lives miserable. We have informed the local MLA and councillors but nothing has changed on the ground,” said Rani Devi, a resident from Badli.
 
 Kavita Kumari, a resident from Burari, complained about irregular disposal of garbage and the unhygienic condition people are living in.
 
