NEW DELHI:A notorious snatcher from Hauz Kazi triggered a security scare near Pragati Maidan early on Sunday as he ran into police while hunting for a prey on his Yamaha sports bike. What followed was a 15-minute high voltage chase through   and Tilak Marg. When cornered, the criminal,  , fired at the chasing officer with a pistol but missed him narrowly. 

 Police have recovered two stolen mobile phones from him. Murasalin had 22 cases of snatching and robbery against him and was jailed 10 times. In the wake of growing incidents of snatching, joint commissioner Ajay chaudhary had formed a special team in New Delhi district to arrest the perpetrators. In the early hours of Sunday, SHO of Tilak Marg Naresh Kumar was standing with his team at the picket at  . 
 
 At 3.20am, a man was spotted speeding towards   from ITO side. The bike, a R15, also did not have a number-plate at the front. When flagged down, the rider accelerated, went into the wrong carriageway and sped towards Mathura Road. Immediately, officers
 flashed a message on wireless about intercepting the bike. When cops tried to stop Murasalin, he first performed a wheelie to scare the officers and then took a U-turn and again tried to drive towards Tilak Marg. Officers said that the bike was driving at more than 100kmph. Murasalin then drove along the  .
 
 An officer on a motorbike then decided to chase him. After firing at the cop, Murasalin lost control of his bike and rammed into another vehicle parked near a barricade that was put in place to stop him. 
 
 Murasalin was thrown off the bike and landed on the bonnet of the other vehicle. Officers then pinned him down and arrested him. 
 
 Murasalin later told officers that he had planned to drive by on the road between the Police Headquarters (in ITO) and Pragati Maidan to look for a pedestrian walking with a mobile phone in his hand. He said the bike belonged to his uncle and he used to steal phones to impress his four girlfriends. 
 
 Officers would question him further to find out whether he was part of a snatching gang that was operating in the area. A case of attempt to murder and preventing a public servant from conducting his duty and under the Arms Act has been registered against him.
 
 In another incident, two youths fleeing with a gold chain snatched from a woman in   was caught after an e-rickshaw driver rammed his vehicle against their motorbike. 
 
