JAIPUR: The sub-contractor of  , which was awarded work by Sanjose Supreme has threatened to go to the court. 

 The firm's alleged payment of Rs 16 crore has not been cleared by   Pvt Ltd. It was alleged that urban development and housing minister and Jaipur Development Commissioner (JDC) are in no mood to pay the firm's liability.
 
 "Recently, the chairman of Sanjose Supreme Tollways Development met the JDC along with representative of sub-contractors. The JDC had assured to look into the matter, however, nothing has been done so far," said a JDA official source. He added, "The firms have also approached the police commissioner. Hearing was done, however, case has also not been registered."
 
 This would be another challenge for state government as litigation at this point of time, could deal a severe blow to the project. The (UDH) department will constitute a settlement committee to terminate the existing contract between  , Sanjose-Supreme joint venture (JV) and bankers.
 
 This would be the last step before awarding the work to   (NHAI). Before signing memorandum of understanding (MoU) between Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) and (NHAI), state government will constitute a settlement committee to resolve the issue amicably.
 
 The minister will decide the president & member of settlement committee. The committee will consider aspects of all three parties. "The JDA is examining all the aspects, the project will not be delayed at any cost," said a senior JDA official.
 
 According to officials, NHAI will take two months more to initiate the work of long pending 47km Ring Road project. JDA would also take possession of remaining land of 29 hectares for the project soon.
 
 "Union minister   has already given directions to NHAI officials to prepare a detailed project report (DPR). Remaining land would be provided once the construction is started," added the minister.
 
 In a previous empowered committee, conditions of agreements, which will be signed between NHAI and JDA was finalised after discussions. As per agreement, NHAI will provide Rs 350 crore to JDA in 10 years. "NHAI would provide Rs 35 crore to JDA every year. It would also provide 8% interest to the authority.
 
  Once the agreement document is prepared, we would seek appointment with Union minister Nitin Gadkari and MoU will be inked in New Delhi," said an official. 
 
