KANNUR: The 57th edition of the state  , the biggest art event in Asia, had a   when   Pinarayi Vijayan lit the   in the presence of eminent personalities, including singer K S Chitra and education minister C Raveendranath on Monday. Inaugurating the cultural extravaganza at `Nila', the main venue, Vijayan said the festival is being organized to promote extracurricular activities among students, which are also equally important in the development of an individual.

 “The notion that art and literary activities are outside the purview of education has changed and today it is part of the framework of a comprehensive education programme. The aim of the new curriculum is to develop not only knowledge but also literary and artistic talents of children,“ he said.
 
 “The aim of such festivals is to groom artists and we should strive to achieve that goal,“ he said referring to the reports of some unhealthy tendencies in competitions. Steps have been initiated to put an end to such unhealthy aspects, he added.
 
 “We have evaluated many complaints at various levels and steps are being taken to avoid fraudulent activities. We should be vigilant,“ he said, adding that the event envisages to reinvigorate art forms, including folk arts, which are on the verge of extinction. Referring to the complaints that many youngsters who shined at festivals have not been seen in action at a later stage in their career, the chief minister said the training should not be just to win competition but to conquer new heights.
 
 Singer K S Chitra was the chief guest of the func tion. However, as is the usual practice, there was no representation from the cultural fra ternity, barring the eminent singer.
 
 In his presidential address minister Raveendranath said this year's festival would be noted for the festive spirits rather than the competitive spirit.Also, this year the festival has the distinction of being held completely by following green protocol. Minister for ports Ramachandran Kadannappally welcomed the gathering. DPI K V Mohankumar offered the vote of thanks.
 
 Over 12,000 participants will compete in 232 items, including 172 stage events, in this year's festival. The competitions will be held in 20 venues across Kannur town.
 
 
