BENGALURU: Two lions attacked a safari vehicle in   (BBP) last week. None of the visitors was, however, injured. This is the second time the same vehicle has been attacked. The vehicle in question, ironically, wasn’t a regular safari bus but a Toyota Innova, a luxury SUV meant for those who pay higher fares. 

 A video of the attack was shown on some local television channels on Tuesday. The video, shot by a safari bus driver behind the Innova, shows two lions following it closely for quite some distance. While one of the animals tries to cross before the vehicle after pursuing it, another tries to climb onto it and bite the rear glass. The cries of the visitors inside are clearly audible. Then the vehicle is seen moving on, and the lion goes away. 
 
 Blaming the driver for negligence of safety, Santosh Kumar, BBP executive director said, “The attack took place on January 28 or 29. The driver is clearly at fault. He should never have stopped the car, which he probably did to please the visitors. We’ve removed him from safari duty.” 
 
 Santosh said meshes are installed on windows of bigger vehicles ferrying the public but it is difficult to fit meshes on all sides for smaller vehicles. The Innova had meshes on the side, but not on the windscreen or rear window. “We’are planning to send a proposal to the state government to remove small vehicles like this and retain only safari buses. This will ensure safety of animals as well as that of visitors,” he added. 
 
 Veterinarians attached to BBP, who have been monitoring the behaviour of lions, say there is nothing unusual. “The lions or any other animal in the safari could have chased the vehicle out of curiosity or to break the boredom that dogs captive animals. If you see such videos, you will observe that lions don’t attack the vehicle or people in it. They stop whenever the vehicle stops,” said a veterinarian. 
 
 Another veterinarian said the lions’ behaviour could also be due to the stress that captive animals experience when the number of safari vehicles increases. “Sometimes, taunts and noise by visitors also irritate them.” 
 
 BBP has around 20 lions which are released in the safari area in groups of four or five. In September 2016, a similar incident was reported when a lion charged at the same vehicle, taking a family on a safari. The BBP management had then directed safari drivers to be more careful and not to get close to animals during their rounds.
 
