KOLKATA: Students appearing in   this year are in for some shock. The   Joint Entrance Examination Board (WBJEEB) has decided to hold the undergraduate entrance tests to various departments of Presidency University on April 29 and April 30. While   is scheduled to hold philosophy examination on April 29, several major engineering entrance tests are lined up on April 30.

 Though it’s too early to take a call, the announcement has left the students baffled. Sources in the JEE board, however, assured that there’s nothing to panic as of yet. “We will sit down with the university authorities and take a relook at the exam schedule. The JEE board as well as the university are exclusively dedicated to students. This is due to circumstantial events that the ISC and CBSE had to revise their time-table. As a result, the UG entrance test dates have clashed. We shall take every possible step to allow all aspirants to appear in the examination,” a source in the JEE board said.
 
 Among major entrance tests, Amrita Engineering Entrance Examination (AEEE) 2017 will be conducted on April 29 for admissions to three campuses — Kollam, Bangalore and Coimbatore. Aligarh Muslim University Engineering Entrance Examination (AMUEEE) will be held on April 30. GITAM University, which is one of the most prominent technology colleges in south India with campuses in Vishakhapatnam, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, will hold online tests between April 16 and 30.
 
 SRM University Joint Entrance Examination is scheduled to hold online entrance tests between April 1 and April 30 and the slots will have to be booked within March. Even   will conduct Manipal University Online Entrance Test (MU-OET) 2017 between April 24 and May 15.
 
 “If both ISC and CBSE Class XII examinations are held throughout March and April, students won’t have much choice but to select the earliest slot on the last Sunday, i.e., April 30, to take the engineering examination. I would rather request the JEE board to defer the Presidency UG entrance test dates. Many engineering aspirants would want to study in   as well. Most importantly, philosophy is a very popular subject,” said Sharmila Bose, principal of Sushila Birla Girls’ School.
 
 If entrance tests are held before publication of HS results, there will be no criteria for students for applying. “However, there will be a general cut-off for HS marks that will be decided by the admission committee before counselling is held for final admissions. Only then students who meet the requisite HS cut-off as well as secure the desired marks in the entrance test will bag a seat. The general cut-off for humanities and science subjects will be different,” said a source.
 
 
