NAGPUR/ CHANDRAPUR: Vidarbha is experiencing heat wave-like condition as announced by the   ( ). This has resulted in the local education department to put a complete stop to afternoon shifts in   with immediate effect. The directive issued on Saturday afternoon cites the danger to students’ health as the reason. 

 The temperature during Saturday noon was recorded at 42.4 degree, while the night temperature has been 22.8 degree. Across Vidarbha, the maximum temperature was 3 degree above normal. At 44 degree, Chandrapur is the hottest in the region.
 
 Anil Pardhi, deputy director of education (Nagpur division), said, “The heat can have adverse effect on kids’ health. All schools that operate in double shifts will now be required to make the necessary changes.” 
 
 According to Pardhi, morning shift means classes will have to end before noon. 
 
 This decision only affects state board schools but Pardhi has urged others to do the same. “We do not want to disturb the academic schedule of CBSE schools and they do not have a board representative here either. Anyway, you don’t always need an authority figure to tell you what is good for students’ health,” said Pardhi.
 
 State board principals have welcomed the decision but say this leads to logistical challenges. A principal, who did not wish to named, said, “The first problem is obviously about infrastructure because we are talking about over thousand students in each shift. The second issue is about maintaining the regulatory requirement of having 220 teaching days in school, of which we are still short by almost three weeks.” 
 
 The principal added that extra holidays this year due to elections extended the gap between the mandatory 220 days and the current situation. 
 
 CBSE schools say they too keep kids as priority in all cases but have to abide by the central board’s guidelines as well. Mukta Chatterjee, a senior academician, said, “For the younger kids school gets off by noon in this season but for the senior students (STD IX-X) it goes on till 1pm. Every school’s timing may vary a bit. CBSE guidelines require that we complete a fixed number of teaching hours and that leaves very little room to work around.” 
 
 IMD predicts mainly clear sky on April 2 with temperature with no significant change in maximum and minimum temperature. For April 3 and 4, IMD predicts cloudy sky with the temperature expected to be 42 degree till April 7.
 
 The temperature started rising from March 23 when it was recorded at 40.6 degree. Since then, the mercury has always been above the 40-degree mark.
 
 At 44, Chandrapur was 3.9 notches above normal. The lowest maximum temperature was 38.6 degree at Washim.
 
 In the night hours on Saturday, Yavatmal was the hottest at 27 degree, 3.5 degree above normal, while Gondia was the ‘coldest’ at 22.8 degree, 0.3 degree below normal.
 
 The   (CMC) has issued heatwave warning and has warned the people against venturing out in afternoon hours. CMC has called upon the citizens, particularly senior citizens, small children and pregnant women, to take precautions. 
 
 According to CMC, a heatwave was witnessed between April 17 and 19, and May 15 and 25 last year. However, the temperature this year has crossed the 40 degree mark by mid-March. Civil hospital in Chandrapur has prepared a special room for people suffering from sun stroke. 
 
 Chief health officer Dr Anjali Ambakar has also warned devotees coming to Chandrapur for the Mahakali Yatra, which begins from Sunday, against the heatwave. Citizens have been advised to approach the civil hospital or public health centres of CMC in case of sun stroke. 
 
