NAGPUR: Now blackboards in classrooms will struggle for students’ attention even more considering its competition will be a  . The state government has directed all affiliated schools to   in every classroom by March end to boost the  . The state hopes to improve academic performance by using digital teaching methodology. While students will welcome the addition to their classrooms, school trustees are fuming because of the fine print — the cost of the set up has to be borne by schools. 

 Ravindra Fadnavis, a senior and influential academician who’s also part of the management that runs the famed   said, “Where will schools get the money from? We can’t charge fee (applicable to govt aided schools) and non-salary grants is still a major issue. This idea is a terrible one considering the financial condition of aided schools.” The government says schools should innovate for funding. Education minister Vinod Tawde said, “Funds can be sourced through public participation.” 
 
 Installing a TV is not enough as it needs to be interactive and capable of playing back digital content. The state has suggested using devices like ‘Miracast’ or similar products available in the market. A website describes Miracast as ‘the method to connect to a TV which in turn plugs into your digital classroom projector via HDMI. This simply means the teacher now has a wireless connection to the projector allowing them to be anywhere in the classroom and mirror the display on the projector’.
 
  estimates that the TV, along with Mircast/similar product and an Android computer stick should cost around Rs20,000. Giving an option for schools that would like to avoid buying a TV, the state’s circular suggests purchase of a projector that has capability of turning any whiteboard into an interactive one. “Teachers who are confident of using the technology can buy this projector, which can be purchased for Rs15,000/-, instead of a TV. Using an interactive board will help increase the level of understanding among students,” the circular mentioned. 
 
 This decision by the state government comes on the back of its flagship 2016 project, ‘Pragat Shaikshanik Mahrashtra’ (loosely translated as ‘academically progressed Maharashtra’), which failed to achieve desired results. State’s target was to have 33,000 primary schools categorized as ‘progressed’ based on the initiatives taken by the state machinery but only 4,000 made the cut. So now the education department has coined the term ‘Jalad (speedy) Pragat Shaikshanik Mahrashtra’ and the installation of TVs in every classroom is part of this new plan. 
 
