BENGALURU: The caste system and oppression of dalits and people from the lower rungs of society are primarily due to lack of awareness and rigid perceptions, the Dalai Lama said on Tuesday. He was speaking at a seminar on social justice and B R Ambedkar to commemorate the dalit icon’s 125th birth anniversary.

 "No religion speaks of discriminating against a person just because someone is from a low class. All religions preach only one thing and that is love. Caste system arises from a feudal setup in India, wherein it is part of the culture and not a part of religion," the spiritual leader said.
 
  for his vision and making provisions for social justice in the Constitution, Lama said more than the Constitution, the need of the hour is to change public mindset. "I always believe constitutions will be there on paper to provide social justice. But then there needs to be a change in public perception and mindset to implement the chapters of the Constitution to eradicate the caste system. And the only way forward for this is education," he said.
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah said as long as there is social injustice, reservation will continue in this country and in Karnataka. "People ask why there is a system of reservation even today, when the original provision was only for 10 years. I say, till the time there is social injustice and caste bias, reservation is here to stay. The backward classes and dalits do not have avenues for financial freedom and educational opportunities to move up in life. When this is accorded on equal footing, reservation will also go," he said.
 
 ‘For  , India is its guru’ 
 
 Praising Indian culture, the country’s rich history and its export of Buddhism, the Dalai Lama said for Tibet, India has been its guru.
 
 “It’s a well documented fact that India exported Buddhism to the world. It is also recorded by one Tibetan scholar and leader that until India’s prowess and influence entered the snow-laden mountains of Tibet, our nation was in the dark. We have to admit that India has been our guru and we, its chela. But we are its ardent and loyal chelas,” he said.
 
 CM disappointed with arrangements: Anjaneya
 
 Social welfare minister H Anjaneya admitted to having received an earful from chief minister Siddaramaiah for lack of proper arrangements at the seminar.
 
  Anjaneya said he had failed to make proper arrangements for what was supposed to be a showcase event. “I always plan big, and would have even booked Palace Grounds for the event. But I was misled by the organizing committee on the number of people attending it. The chief minister has expressed his disappointment over lack of space at Ambedkar Bhavan,” he said.
 
