The Ajit Singh-led Rashtriya Lok Dal has been facing questions on its political relevance after its humiliating debacle in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. The party, which has a strong presence in west UP, however, has been attempting to crawl back by broadening its base and even inducting disenchanted loyalists of SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav. Ajit’s son and party’s national general secretary   tells Pankaj Shah why the party still holds much political ground in the run-up to the crucial UP  .

 
 
 
 I think one or two electoral debacles cannot decide the fate of a political party. We have a long way to go. We are going aggressively and putting in place all the strategy to broad-base our party. It is certainly a critical election and our party workers are taking it very seriously.
 
 
 
 
 Yes. That is the idea. I think a lot of political space has been created because of the instability within the ruling Samajwadi Party and the fact that the BJP government at the Centre could not deliver what it promised. People thought that the BJP was ascending in UP. But the lacklustre Budget and several other factors have taken the air out of the saffron party. That has given us an opportunity to broaden our base and shed the regional tag attached to us.
 
 
 
 
 There have been many tall leaders in SP who faced humiliation, especially after the family feud broke out. But they still have their own political significance in their respective constituencies. People also sympathize with them. Our hope is that this leadership will take RLD to new areas and they would continue to be our flag-bearers even after elections.
 
 
 
 
 Our people did feel cheated. After the SP feud, when Mulayam Singhji reached out to us, Chaudhary Sahab (RLD chief  ) did not pause to think even for two minutes. He forgot all that had happened in the past and went to the aide of the family. Despite that, disrespect was shown to Chaudhary Sahab. In fact, there was a nefarious attempt to finish RLD. 
 
 
 
 
 See, the blame lies with the one who is leading. Here SP, not Congress, is in the front. Pichlaggu ke bare mein main kya kahun… (Why should I comment on a follower).
 
 
 
 
 As of now, we are going all alone. But talks are certainly on with other smaller parties as well. Let’s see if any new front takes shape in the future.
 
 
 
 
 First of all, I am not a spokesperson of Jats though I come from the same community. We advocate for the cause of farmers which not only comprise Jats but people of other castes and communities too. The community is certainly very strong politically in west UP. But it is the same community which is helping us in fielding candidates from all castes and religions.
 
 
 
 
 Around 20% of our tickets have been given to Muslims. We have fielded more Muslims than SP-Congress in districts like Muzaffarnagar and Ghaziabad. We are at the forefront of beating communal forces and the people who are trying divide society.
 
 
 
 
 Our focus is on polls, not ‘post-poll’.
 
 
 
 
 Our party was not given enough time. We were deliberately stopped. So I decided to restrict myself to campaign and build the party. However, whatever opportunity comes my way, I will take it as a responsibility.
 
 
