It's been more than 10 years since TV actress   completed her graduation ( ) from   (DCAC), but she keeps herself updated every year with DU cut-off lists for admissions. "I think, as somebody who graduated from a DU college, I relate to that anxiety that students go through to get admission in Delhi. I took admission in 2001 and I had 85% in class XII, which I think was very average. There were very few colleges where I was getting admission in Economics (Hons). Now, the cut-off for Economics (Hons) is between 95-98% in all colleges. I often wonder if the younger generation is more hard working and intelligent, or the colleges are getting stricter about admissions," says Shraddha, who grew up in west Delhi.

  Talking about her college days and her first day at DCAC, Shraddha says, "I was late for my class on the first day of college and there was this very pretty girl sitting at the first desk. I was looking for a place to sit, and she said, 'Baith ja yaar.' Since then, we have been very good friends. I was just trying to dodge getting ragged on my first day, there was a lot of ragging in DCAC. There were seniors asking freshers to do some things, nothing serious, it was all fun. I loved my college life as it gave me some of my best friends. I used to take a bus from Paschim Vihar, where my home was, to Chanakyapuri, and I would mostly end-up going to PVR Chanakyapuri to have momos. Recently, momos were in the news when someone said they should be banned, and my friends and I were really furious and we had a chat on our Whatsapp group that momos are a part of our childhood, and how can someone think of banning them!"
 
  Shraddha, who played the title role in ' ', is busy with her upcoming show 'Kundali Bhagya'. She says that after being a part of the reality show 'India’s  ', she had to struggle like any other newcomer for work, but her hard work has paid off. "Reality shows can help you get a platform, but even then you have to struggle to get good work. In my case, the good thing was that the reality show helped me reach Mumbai on my own. I would have never gone to Mumbai and tried my luck in acting otherwise," says Shraddha.
 
 
 
