LUCKNOW: The ruling   wants local body elections to be deferred by a couple of months.   leaders say there are anomalies in the voter lists and a rapid survey is being carried out by the urban development department. 

 However, sources in the party told TOI that the leadership doesn’t want   in the hot and humid weather condition of July and August. Besides, the party also wants the newly formed Mathura-Vrindavan and Ayodhya municipal corporations to be in the fray. State election commissioner SK Agrawal had on Friday said that Mathura-Vrindavan and Ayodhya municipal corporations elections would be held after delimitation work is complete. 
 
 According to party insiders, urban voters—the strong base of the party—might not come out to vote in the humid and rainy weather. This might affect the results adversely, the party fears. A poor show in local body elections after the Aditya Nath Yogi-led BJP coming to power will create a wrong perception and affect the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. 
 
 The BJP leadership wants elections at Mathura and Ayodhya municipal corporations so that the pro-Hindutva agenda of the party can come into play, sources said. However, since both corporations have just been formed, delimitation and reservation in the wards might take time. 
 
 The party leadership is also unhappy with the voter list preparations as according to their estimate, names of at least 15 lakh voters have not been added. 
 
 In total, according to BJP statisticians, the state had 13.15 crore voters in 2012 and 13.85 crore in 2017 assembly polls. That meant an increase of 70 lakh voters. In local body list, there were 3.1 crore voters in 2012. Going by that mark, the proportionate increase in voters should be about 18 lakh voters, a BJP leader said. However, the voter list prepared shows an increase of only 2.5 lakh to 3 lakh voters, he added. 
 
 BJP’s   cell in charge JPS Rathore told TOI that there were other mistakes and fake voters in the list too. Rathore confirmed to TOI that irregularities have been reported to the state election office. 
 
 In the meantime, the last date for revision of voter list has been extended to June 5. Whether the state election office extends the poll date or not is something only time will tell.
 
