Indore: Rankings bring cheer, but show us the real goods, say educational institutions in Indore after the HRD ministry released nationwide ranks for campuses.

 Bagging a prized slot in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) is a matter to joy but educationalists feel that the ranking should be linked with funds, fee structure and quality of research for extending the real benefits to students and faculty. 
 
 Leading educationalists of Indore feel NIRF in the current format is more of a “feedback”, due to the fixed age-old pattern of inviting responses online. Some new parameters need to be added for more intensive inspection of institutes, they suggest.
 
 This is all the more important here because Indore is the only city in the country to have both an IIT and IIM.
 
 IIM-Indore has bagged 10th rank in NIRF in the management category and IIT-Indore was ranked 15 among the top engineering colleges of the country. Devi Ahilya Vishwavidhyalaya got 31st rank in pharmacy while Holkar Science College was at 120.
 
 IIM-Indore professor Prashant Salwan, of strategy and international business department, said, “These rankings help and motivate institutes to enhance the quality of study. In my opinion, the ranking parameter should also evaluate the quality and utilization of research rather than just counting the number of research papers.”
 
 Salwan feels the usage of patents registered by institutes should also be considered as a key criterion in the rankings.
 
 More than 3,000 institutes were studied by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) for ranking under five heads based on 20 parameters. Institutes have to fill an online questionnaire every year for making it to the list. 
 
 Professor D L Sunder, strategic management and entrepreneurship, IIM-Indore, said, “We would like to come in the top 5. Ranking would matter only if it is linked to funding and fee structure.”
 
 DAVV with 31st ranking in pharmacy was a first-time applicant for NIRF ranking. DAVV vice-chancellor professor N K Dhakad said, “We are still far behind on the table. We will now focus on improving the ranking next year. We will plan and work towards achieving better rank for the university.”
 
 Holkar Science College principal, K N Chaturvedi, said, “One can’t ask for more. This is our 125th year and this achievement is the icing on the cake. We will try to improve our ranking next year and will progress day by day.”
 
 However, some eminent educationists from the city seemed unhappy with the concept of NIRF. Asking not to be named, a professor of one of the better-ranked institutions, said: “The rankings are given on the basis of information filled by the institutions and no representative from the ministry comes to review the information. Thus, the authenticity of these rankings is questionable.”
 
 KEY PARAMETERS FOR NIRF RANKING
 
 Teaching, learning, resources
 
 Research and professional practice
 
 Graduation outcomes
 
 Outreach and inclusivity
 
 Perception
 
 PHOTO QUOTES
 
 This ranking of our alma mater shows that the concern for needs of students has increased and that the quality of education given by the university has increased
 
 AV Bajaj | president, DAVV Alumni Association
 
 Holkar College has been expecting this recognition for many years as we are one of the most premium science colleges in the state. There is no comparison of Holkar College in Indore, at least. I am quite happy that the college has been identified among the top 150 in India
 
 Dr Sanjay Vyas| president, Holkar Alumni Association
 
 
