AURANGABAD: The   (I-T) department has served around 500 notices and carried out 25 surveys in   post demonetisation.

 Around Rs 620 crore of undisclosed income has come to the fore through I-T declaration scheme and a couple of other such relief measures during the fiscal ended on Friday.
 
 In all, the I-T department has collected tax of Rs 1,200 crore for financial year 2016-17 from the region as against the set target of Rs 1,000 crore.
 
 “While all eyes were on the I-T department post announcement of demonetisation move, we served 500 notices and carried out 25 surveys in the region based on risk assessment. Those who were found involved in suspicious financial transactions were subjected to action,” senior I-T officials said.
 
 Authorities said tax collection from eight districts of Marathwada was almost 50% higher compared to Rs 800 collection done during the financial year 2015-16.
 
 Counselling, proactive surveillance and demonetisation were cited as the reasons for overachieving the tax collection target for the financial year 2016-17.
 
 “We had carried out extensive counselling about filing returns and paying tax dues. Around 20 programmes were held on a large scale in the region. When it came to surveillance, we had approached different firms including credit agencies and vehicle dealers to keep a check on possible cases of tax evasion by potentially big payers,” I-T authorities said preferring anonymity. 
 
 I-T department said income declaration schemes opted post phasing out of old currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 and tax payable towards such measures reflected in tax collection. 
 
 “Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, 2016 (PMGKY), an amnesty scheme launched by Prime Minister   in December 2016 resulted in detection of undisclosed income worth Rs 60 crore in Marathwada,” authorities said. The Income Declaration Scheme, 2016 (IDS) has garnered maximum tax worth around Rs 500 crore. Besides, the crackdown carried out by the I-T department in the form of surveys has resulted in surrender of Rs 60 crore tax. 
 
 In Marathwada, Jalna range of I-T department comprising of Jalna, Parbhani and Hingoli witnessed maximum tax collection of around Rs 105 crore. 
 
 The authorities did not have off hand information about the total number of taxpayers from the region as per income bracket.
 
 “The tax collection figures will be slightly more once the final calculations are completed. The honest taxpayers have paid their hard-earned money, which will be utilised for different infrastructural and development work,” the I-T officials said. 
 
