CHANDIGARH: Almost a year-and-a-half before the sensational Nabha jailbreak, a police officer in Patiala had sent a detailed four-page note to his seniors, warning of a "desperate attempt by inmates to flee".

 The cop had written to then ADGP (security)   on August 3, 2015, asking for outdated .303 rifles to be replaced and that the personnel be given communication devices as well as bullet-proof vests. This was just five days after Pakistani terrorists had attacked the Dinanagar police station in Gurdaspur in which three civilians and four cops were killed.
 
 Despite the letter, none of the equipment in the jail changed and 16 months on – on November 27, 2016 – armed men had entered the high security jail and escaped with alleged terrorist and   (KLF) chief  , gangster   and four others.
 
 The note, a copy of which has been accessed by TOI, says, "Since the maximum security jail Nabha has many Khalistani terrorists lodged in it, a desperate attempt to flee from custody cannot be ruled out. Keeping the view of shortcomings in security of the Nabha jail, especially with recent attack on Dinanagar police station by terrorists, there is an urgent need of improvement in security arrangements at Nabha maximum security jail and Nabha new jail, so that any kind of security threat is dealt with effectively."
 
 TOI tried to talk to Gupta as well as Punjab DGP Suresh Arora. However, both did not take calls or answer text messages.
 
 In his letter, the Patiala cop had disclosed several inadequacies at the jail. This included missing communication systems among jails and the district police. He also disclosed that there were no light machine gun (LMG) posts over the front entrance and back of the jail.
 
 "Outdated .303 rifles need to be replaced and upgraded to modern efficient AK-47s, SLRs and LMGs on permanent basis from central armoury, Bahadurgarh," the letter pointed out. "Communication being a very important component of security, the jail needs to be provided with 1 very high frequency (VHF) and 20 wireless (w/T) sets."
 
 The cop had also told Gupta about the absence of a boom barrier at the main gate and unsafe towers. "In order to prevent attack from the main gate, a second security check barrier needs to be installed. Urgent repair work needs to be undertaken on outer wall, check barrier, barracks of the jail and towers. A quick resource team (QRT) should be provided with arms and ammunition on permanent basis and for this purpose, commandant, 36th battalion, Punjab Armed Police, Bahadurgarh should be written. Out of 14 towers, three are unsafe for use. As a result, no security personnel man these towers," the note says.
 
 "At some places, barbed wire is not present on the outer walls. It poses a big threat to the internal and external security of the jail. There have been instances where hardcore criminals have managed to escape from the outer wall in the absence of barbed wire" it adds.
 
