After jazz, salsa and ballet dancing, city folks are going traditional to stay fit now. Taking on a new   trend, Puneites are experimenting with traditional dance forms to stay fit because, let's face it; gym routines tend to get boring after a point. Dance, on the other hand, can help you burn calories and increase flexibility as well.
 So the next time you see someone doing   or   at a fitness studio, don't be surprised. Rather, join in.
 
  
 
  
  If you don't feel the urge to dance to Punjabi beats, there's something wrong with you. But for those of you who do, the high energy fitness workout Masala Bhangra is a perfect option to blend fitness with moves. “It is an international form created by Sarina Jain from the US. We incorporate Bollywood rhythm and zumba in a 45 minute nonstop workout. It consists of songs that are high on dhol beats,” says Saumya Sinha, a trainer.
 
  This form focuses on muscle strengthening, flexibility and stamina building. “There are 30 workout sessions and one cannot stop or quit in between. It helps burn about 500 to 700 calories in an hour depending on the intensity of the participant. It keeps your metabolic rate high, which in turn gives optimum weight loss results and also tones and conditions the entire body,” says Saumya.
 
  
  
  
  The physically demanding Kathak ranks high when it comes to fitness quotient. It's not only a strenuous physical workout but since all dancers practice wearing heavy ghungroos, it also makes for a weight bearing exercise. “Since the performance tells you a story, Kathak dancers spend hours mastering co-ordination between their facial expressions, hand and leg movements to do justice to the tale. It is specifically beneficial for blood circulation, breathing and to improve stamina and endurance of an individual,” says Toshal Gandhi, a Kathak exponent from the city.
  
  Folk dances result in faster calorie burning, weight loss, increased flexibility and better mental strength. For dance instructor Aarti Pandey, even garba is a form of an exercise. “Firstly, it has a lot of bending movements which help in strengthening the lower back. Secondly, the arm-swinging helps the shoulder muscles and the clapping, which involves wrist and forearm movements, helps strengthening the hands. It's a perfect cardio workout, without the monotony of a treadmill of cycle,” she explains.
 
  
 
  
  
  Dance is an integral part of every celebration in our country. Keeping this in mind, Aarti merged the folk dances of India with fitness. Having been trained in various Indian folk and Latin American dance styles, Aarti feels that the habit of fitness sticks much longer if the routine is fun. “What seems like fun dance moves are actually workout movements for the upper, middle and lower body. For instance, Koli dance is helpful to tone your back, shoulders, biceps and triceps while the Bihu dance from Assam helps work the core,” she says. Another dance form, belly dancing, that is generally known to be sensual, too has a lot of takers among the ladies, owing to its fitness factor. Aziza Degwekar, a city based belly dancer, says, “Through the hip movements and powerful shimmies,   works on your core muscles and encourages you to embrace your curves.“ She also feels that it improves your balance, coordination, posture and flexibility.” Your body structure gets better. Your core muscles and abs are tightened; it's an overall body exercise,” she adds.
 
 
