PANAJI: Even chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s famous speed of delivering infrastructure projects in Goa cannot save the National Games from being postponed again.
 
  Goa were allotted the 36th edition of the National Games to be held in 2011 but delays at other venues like   and Kerala -- who were scheduled to host two previous editions -- meant Goa had to wait for its turn. After much delay, the state government slotted the National Games for November 5-19, 2016, but even those dates were set aside due to the "possibility of early general assembly elections.”
  
  The next dates which Goa agreed with the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) at the annual general meeting (AGM) in December were November 2017 but even that’s beyond reach as   confirmed in his budget speech that the Games will be held “during next year.”
  
  “My government is gearing up for organization of the National Games in the state next year and additional infrastructure required for the National Games will be created within a year for which I have provided Rs 105 crore,” said Parrikar.
  
  Parrikar, during his last stint as chief minister in 2012, had famously fast-tracked development to host the Lusofonia Games in 2014 but this time around there is still plenty of work to do.
  
  “The chief minister said the Games will be in 2018 but dates are not specified. It’s only a formality now for us to write to the IOA and seek change in dates. But more importantly, you have to consider the support of the government. In the last five years, we have been continuously supported by the government,” said VM Prabhudesai, executive director,  .
  
  The government had previously sanctioned Rs 125 crore towards new projects. These projects which have already been tendered include construction of a sports complex at   (Rs 37.61 crore), construction of a hockey facility at Peddem (Rs 34.90 crore), refurbishment of a swimming pool at Fatorda (Rs 27.17 crore), construction of a sports complex at Poinguinim (Rs 21.50 crore) and refurbishment of the   (Rs 1.75 crore).
  
  Apart from these projects, there are several other works which need to be undertaken and approved by the Expenditure Finance Committee. These include construction of a sports complex at   (Rs 41.28 crore), construction of a tennis court at Campal (Rs 5 crore), refurbishment of the Campal indoor hall (Rs 16 crore), upgradation of the open ground at Campal (Rs 3 crore), refurbishment of the Ponda indoor hall (Rs 12 crore) and construction of offices for DSYA and SAG (Rs 15 crore).
