THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: More than a month after the   ruled that the liquor outlets along the national highways and state highways should be removed, the state is still unclear on what stand to adopted on the issue.

 While a section argues that it does not apply to bar hotels and beer and wine parlours, the legal opinion by law secretary B G Hareendranath is learnt to hold the view that these have not been excluded. Since the state favours bar and beer parlours, the government has referred the matter to advocate general.
 
 The state is yet to comply with a part of the directive that called for removal of all signages and adver tisements on the availability of liquor from national and state highways. With just over two months to go before the deadline set by the court, the state beverages corporation is struggling to lcoate real estate where it can relocate its outlets.
 
 Of the 306 state-run outlets, 115 are facing closure. They include 64 outlets along national highways and 51 along the state highways. The 306 outlets include 270 outlets belonging to   and 36 Consumerfed outlets.
 
 The state government is still unclear about what prompted the Supreme Court to set a distance of 500 metres from the highway within which no outlet should function, as the original petition seeking the closure had not cited such a figure. “In Kerala, the stipulated distance of 500 metres is difficult to comply . Even if we find a location that would satisfy this condition, we face another legal issue, as it should also be more than 200 metres away from a temple, church, mosque or an educational institution,“ an official said.
 
 Though it was expected that stretches of highways that fall within the limits of a municipality or a corporation would be excluded, the court made it clear that they are covered under the order. Though the court had observed that liquor vends on highways may not end the menace of drunken driving completely , it cited statistics and data by the centre on accidents due to drunken driving.
 
