MADURAI: A Pakistani national, who was nabbed at Erwadi in   district of Tamil Nadu on Saturday, travelled across India using two fake   cards.  , 65, of Karachi in Pakistan arrived in India through an illegal ferry from Sri Lanka in May.

 According to police sources, Mohammed Yunus is a narcotic dealer who pretended to be a nuts trader with business connections in Sri Lanka. 
 
 Three months ago, he reached Sri Lanka for smuggling. A Sri Lankan agent, who was impressed with his ability to speak languages like English, Hindi, Urdu and Sinhalese, assigned him a task of collecting two cases of brown sugar from an agent in Ahmedabad, Gujarat.
 
 The Sri Lankan agent collected his passport and gave him $US 400. 
 
 Yunus reached Ammapattinam beach in Pudukottai district on May 2. From there, he travelled to Ramanathapuram, Madurai, Chennai, Bangalore, Ahmedabad and Ajmer in Rajasthan. 
 
 “The Ahmedabad agent could not deliver the narcotic consignments as promised and asked him to travel back. So he called the Sri Lankan agent asking him to arrange illegal ferry back to Sri Lanka,” said a Q branch police official who interrogated him.
 
 The agent in turn arranged some people at Kilakarai in Ramanathapuram for an illegal ferry. 
 
 Yunus reached Erwadi Dhargah a few days ago and managed to book a room at a lodge. Based on a tip off from an informer, the Erwadi Dhargah police nabbed him on Saturday. 
 
 Initially, he was suspected to be a Sri Lankan national, and the Q branch was asked to handle the issue. Further investigation by the Q branch revealed that he is actually a Pakistani narcotic dealer.
 
 Yunus had two duplicate Aadhaar cards in his possession with which he used to book rooms in lodges. 
 
 He secured the duplicate Aadhaar cards – one with a Bihar address and another with Kilakarai address – with the help of a Sri Lankan national at Mannadi in Chennai. His photograph has been pasted on somebody else’s Aadhaar cards and he had photocopies of such Aadhaar cards, Q sources said.
 
 The Erwadi Dharga police booked Yunus under IPC sections 465 and 468 for forgery, 471 for fraudulently forging a genuine document, 419 for cheating and impersonation and 420 for cheating. He was also booked under Section 14 of the Foreigners Act 1946 and 3 (a), 6 (a) of the Passport (entry to India) Rules 1950 for illegally entering into the country. 
 
 He was produced before a judicial magistrate in Paramakudi who is in-charge of Ramanathapuram JM court. The magistrate remanded in judicial custody. He was lodged in Ramanathapuram prison. However, he might be shifted to the Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai after obtaining necessary documents, police said. 
 
 The police also arrested Syed Abutahir and Ajees of Erwardi for assisting Yunus. They were booked for criminal conspiracy under sections of the Passport Act.
 
