KOLKATA: Dhurba Dasgupta of action group Scope that has prepared a dossier on the vanishing wetlands of EKW and handed it over to the state environment department.In South 24 Parganas, the pressure is on those bheris that are relatively close to the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass. Hederbheri in Mukundapur mouja and   in Jagatipota mouja are within 4 km of the bypass. While water from the former has been drained, filled up with earth and plots are now on sale on realty sites, draining is underway in the latter. Land sharks are gobbling up bheris in the East Kolkata Wetland at an alarming rate. During a field study in 2014, 60 of the 264 bheris present in 2002 (when EKW was declared a Ramsar site) could not be traced. Three years on, eight more bheris covering more than 650 acres where fish was farmed have either disappeared completely or partially.

 Of the bheris under assault, five are in South 24 Parganas and three in North 24 Parganas. Dhapa Manpur mouja under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is the worst hit by the encroachment with three waterbodies aggregating 445.9 acres under threat. The largest of them is the 218.4-acre Narkeltala bheri in Dhapa Manpur mouja under Bidhannagar South police station. One daag number has been encroached upon and its sale has been publicly announced. The 177.5-acre Chinta Singh Bheri has been encroached upon while the 50-acre   is now a cluster of small ponds and paddy fields.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 "Since Dhapa Manpur mouja is adjoining Salt Lake, there is huge pressure on bheri workers to abandon their livelihood so that water can be drained and converted to land for real estate development.At this rate, there will no trace of bheris around the eastern edge of Kolkata," said At No.7 Belekhali Bheri in Kharki mouja, construction of a housing complex has begun. At the Ashok Bose bheri in   mouja close to  , one of the two fish ponds has been drained and has been taken over by a religious organisation. At Nortala bheri in Chowbaga mouja under Kolkata Municipal Corporation, a house has been built next to the bheri.
 
 There is a standard operating procedure that land sharks have adopted to usurp bheris in the belt. According to locals, wastewater canals by the side of the kachcha roads are first filled up. Then the municipality or panchayat constructs a good road to facilitate the entry of trucks that dump rubbish and earth in the water.
 
 “In spite of assurances at the highest levels that `not a single waterbody will be filled up', waterbodies are disappearing at breakneck speed. Construction of houses has picked up pace, making it evident that real estate activity is in full bloom, and the takeover is meticulously planned and goes unprotested.This deliberate contravention of law is on too large a scale not to be noticed. Yet, it's happening with impunity as the administration remains a mute spectator,“ said Dasgupta. The spurt in real estate ac tivity has been more pronounced in recent months. Locals said the word doing the round was that illegal construction in the belt would soon be legalised as mayor and environment minister   has already announced his intent to allow mutation of plots in EKW. Though East Kolkata Wetland Management Authority (EKWMA) has filed FIR on the disappearance of bheris following pressure from wetland action groups, it made no attempts to reclaim the plots and restore the waterbodies.
 
