CHENNAI: For many in AIADMK, it's a feeling of déjà vu. Nearly three decades ago, in 1988, a similar fight played out shortly after AIADMK founder   passed away. The party split between his protégé   and his wife Janaki and the two leaves symbol was frozen by the then election commissioner. But, the similarity ends there.

 Charisma and political credentials marked the clash between Jayalalithaa and Janaki in what was then personality-centric politics. The fight today is for political survival for both  .
 
 The key issue now is mass acceptability and the rival leaders' popularity within a regional party that dominated the Dravidian horizon for four decades. For the faction that wins the R K Nagar byelection, the battle for supremacy is half won. But MGR biographer R Kannan feels that it is still unclear if the bypoll can be considered a microcosm of Tamil Nadu or a portent for things to come.
 
 Neither OPS nor TTV have any personal following or influence, he pointed out. “There is the impression fostered by the media and social media that the cadres and even a section of the public are sympathetic to OPS; the other faction is believed to simply command the support of the MLAs and party office-bearers. This is all too simplistic and is yet to be tested,“ said Kannan.
 
 The OPS faction is likely to get a fair share of the AIADMK votes, not the least because its candidate E Madhusudhanan is a son of the soil. However, it is unlikely that the un committed voterpublic will be enthused by either of the factions, he said. But, former minister and OPS supporter K Pandiarajan is confident of victory . “Once our candidate wins, MLAs would switch to our side,“ he told TOI. The big challenge, however, would be in educating the voters about the new names of their factions, AIADMK (Amma) and AIADMK ( ), and the hat and electric pole symbols.
 
 With the Election Commission ac knowledging the split in the AIADMK and freezing the symbol, the two factions are equally poised in their bitter battle for Jayalalithaa's legacy. But, in a differ ent avatar with new poll symbols, victory in R K Nagar may be unachievable. The   camp is upbeat. “The EC decision is a shock for us. But, we will win on the plank of Amma's welfare schemes and her achievements,“ said ex-minister P Valarmathi. But, just as in 1989 when Karunanidhi made a comeback, Kannan says the DMK may well end up as the beneficiary of the vote split in the AIADMK. “M K Stalin and DMK under his stewardship enjoy a relatively positive image if we were to discount the incidents on the day of the confidence vote,“ he said.
 
