BHOPAL: CBSE schools in the city are gearing up to compile data of students suffering from  , as the board has agreed in principle to announce mid-exam ‘snack break’ for such students in the upcoming class 10 and 12 board exams.

 The board on Wednesday asked all its affiliated schools, 119 of them in Bhopal, to keep a record of such students till further notification. Speaking to TOI,   president   said all the CBSE schools in Bhopal have been asked to do the same. “The schools have been notified. We will be able to compile the data with the help of parents. All the schools have been told to get an authorised medical certificate, if the students suffer from Type-I diabetes,” he said.
 
 The move came after Dr Ashok Jhingan, chairperson of the  , approached the board to consider the matter. Dr Ashok said it was a major cause of concern for the parents of students who suffer from diabetes adding that the CBSE has in principle agreed. It is to see how they operationalise it. “I have been approaching government of India for past three years to consider this issue, but nobody paid heed. The then   rejected the proposal. The issue was finally resolved by the CBSE chairperson,” he said. Students with Type-I diabetes depend on insulin injections and tend to suffer from headaches, irritability, restlessness and confusion when they have to wait for too long between meals. 
 
 “These children need insulin half an hour before meals. The sugar level could drop due to a long break after insulin and between meals. It could also lead to hypoglycaemia. The patients needs to eat after every two hours,” he said. The CBSE will send out a notice for allowing diabetic students to have snacks 90 minutes into the exam. A detailed circular would be issued by the board most likely on Saturday. 
 
 Dr Ashok that the circular would be issued only after it is made sure that the move is not exploited by the students. “We have a scheduled meeting with the board on Friday where final modus operandi would be decided.” 
 
 Asked about the number of students in Madhya Pradesh having Type-I diabetes, he said as per the rough estimates, there are 7000 such students in the state. 
 
