BHUBANESWAR: Ahead of BJP president  's forthcoming visit to Odisha in June, the saffron outfit is planning a state-wide agitation 'Hak Pain Ladai' (fight for rights) at the grass roots level.

 The party will highlight how an "inefficient" state government is coming in the way of welfare initiatives of the   government from reaching the people, party sources said. The agitation is scheduled to be carried out in phases across the state after May 12.
 
 BJP vice-president Sameer Mohanty said the series of agitations will be held in all 999 mandals (BJP's organizational units in the state).
 
 After the high-voltage national executive meeting in Bhubaneswar, the party held its state executive at Baripada in the tribal-dominated Mayurbhanj district on April 22 and 23. The party followed it up with district executive meetings, which are currently under way and will be over by May 7. 
 
 "The agitations will begin after the party holds its mandal executive meetings between May 7 and 12," Mohanty said.
 
 BJP sources attributed Shah to be the brain behind the agitation plan. The idea to take it to the grass roots level is to connect with the masses by taking up their causes. 
 
 "By the time the BJP boss comes to the state for three days, beginning June 22, the series of agitations will help the party create the right buzz," a source said. 
 
 Shah will visit several booths to strengthen the party as part of the saffron outfit's " ," which he started at Naxalbari in   last month. 
 
 The BJP has taken note of chief minister and BJD president   meeting grass roots level workers to review the panchayat election results. The BJP feels this to be a strategy by Naveen to neutralise the saffron surge. The party hopes its agitations will counter Naveen's move.
 
 "The saffron outfit is trying to raise workers in all the 36000 booths and ensure that the momentum gained by the state unit after the national executive committee meeting here is maintained and multiplied till the grand battle in 2019," a BJP source said.
 
