GAYA: Additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM) S K Rai is likely to pass an order on Saturday on framing of charges against Punjab police AIG Parampal Singh, who had allegedly secured the job by fraudulently obtaining   (MU) degree.

 Earlier, the Gaya police had charge sheeted the Punjab cop under different sections of the Indian Penal Code, including Section 420. Though Singh claimed to have studied at Kisan College, Sohsarai, a constituent unit of MU, his name does not figure on the college rolls. He claimed to have studied sociology in the Biharsharif-based college, a subject that was not taught in the college at that point of time.
 
 On September 24, 2016, the Gaya court ordered formal framing of charges against the cop. However, Singh challenged the order in the Patna high court. On his last day in office, the then Chief Justice   provided partial relief to the cop. Te CJ referred the matter back to the trial court in Gaya to hear afresh arguments on the point of framing of charges. Several orders of Justice Ansari, including the ones granting relief to rape case accused Rajballabh Yadav and infamous road rage case accused Rocky Yadav, son of JD (U) MLC  , were subsequently quashed by the Supreme Court.
 
 Police sources said during investigation, MU documents, including tabulation register and registration related files, were seized by the police. The seizure of original files helped police solve the somewhat complicated case.
 
 During investigation, Singh was extensively quizzed by the case investigating officer (IO) on important points like his admission records and subjects of study. Asked to produce the admission related documents, the Punjab police officer reportedly claimed that he appeared as a private student and it is not necessary for a private student to get enrolled.
 
 However, MU officials contradicted Singh and told the case IO that the practice of allowing private students was discontinued way back in 1985 itself. Singh had obtained the degree in 1991.
 
 Startling facts relating to the involvement of lower level university officials have also come to light. According to sources, during the course of investigation, it came to light that soon after Singh’s appointment in the police, the Punjab government made a query from the Chancellor of Magadh University (Governor of Bihar is the ex officio Chancellor of the university) about the degree. Sources said the query addressed to the Chancellor never reached the Raj Bhavan. A section officer (SO) of the university directly received the letter addressed to the Chancellor. The SO endorsed the letter to one of his juniors. Complicity of the then joint controller of exams also came to light, who has also been charge sheeted. The joint controller has since retired.
 
