NEW DELHI/HYDERABAD:   sleuths from Delhi have swooped in on the house of city-based industrialist,  , on Monday to gather evidence in a corruption case involving controversial meat exporter   and former CBI director AP Singh. Through Moin, who allegedly worked as an agent for several high profile bureaucrats including certain former CBI chiefs, Pradeep allegedly tried to get help in favour of his two family members accused in the Emaar case probed by CBI's Hyderabad unit.

 The CBI team from Delhi arrived on Monday morning at the Film Nagar house of Pradeep Koneru, CEO and Executive Director of Trimex Industries.“Apart from Hyderabad, searches were also carried out by the CBI at various places in Chennai,“ CBI spokesperson R K Gaur told TOI.
 
 Koneru Pradeep, though not an accused in Emaar scam case investigated by CBI, is now facing charges of putting in unlawful efforts to bail out his father   and brother Koneru Madhu, both of whom were made accused in the Emaar scam case.
 
 CBI sources said Koneru Pradeep sought help from top CBI officials through Moin Qureshi, to get relief for his father Koneru Rajendra Prasad and brother Koneru Madhu, who are accused in Emmar properties case being probed by CBI's Hyderabad unit. The CBI said BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) messages between Pradeep Koneru and Moin Qureshi reveals all.
 
 On Singh's retirement, it was revealed in an   evasion probe that Qureshi and the former agency chief interacted “on daily basis“ on BBM.
 
 The BBM messages between Pradeep and Qureshi during April 2013 and July 2013, a copy of which TOI possesses, reveals that Pradeep seeks appointment with the `boss' for his father, brother and himself.
 
 During this period of exchange of messages, Ranjit Sinha was CBI director and A P Singh was member of UPSC.Apart from Singh, Qureshi, his employee Aditya Sharma, Pradeep and unknown others were named as accused in the latest FIR registered by the CBI's Delhi ACB unit on February 16.Top CBI sources said that its teams also conducted raids on former CBI director AP Singh, who headed the agency between 2010 and 2012 when the UPA government was in office.
 
 The present case registered under Sections 8, 9, 13 (2) and 13 (1) (d) of Prevention Of Corruption Act, which deal with corrupt activities by public servants and private persons using public servants in lieu of any favour, has been registered on a reference given by ED chief Karnal Singh.
 
 The CBI alleged that Qureshi was indulging as a middleman for “certain public ser vants“ and that the analysis of records discloses commission of cognizable offences.
 
 It was alleged that Singh, while heading CBI, shared information with Qureshi and helped the latter in many cases.In a report filed in SC in October 2014, on the basis of IT department probe, Attorney General Mukul Rohtagi had said.
 
