MUMBAI: Even as   has snapped ties with BJP days before the  , the alliance was responsible for betraying Mumbaikars, alleged  , senior Congress leader and former Union minister, on Monday. He was in the city to release a ‘chargesheet’ drafted by the   against the BJP-Shiv Sena alliance in the BMC. 

 Launching a frontal attack against the alliance, Tharoor claimed that Asia’s richest civic organization has ‘collapsed’ owing to corruption and mismanagement at all levels. “People of Mumbai deserve a better deal; the roads are very bad, the healthcare system has collapsed and there is absolutely no solid waste disposal plan. In my opinion, it’s time a third-party audit is conducted,” he said.
 
 Mumbai Congress president Sanjay Nirupam blamed both chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray for the corruption in the BMC. “The BJP has an alliance with Sena in the   for the last 20 years, but suddenly Fadnavis has now realized that there is no transparency. The CM must be aware of the fact that every crucial proposal is passed by the standing committee headed by a Sena leader, but it comprises BJP members too,” he alleged.
 
 Nirupam claimed there has been a sudden spurt in the number of potholes and the condition of roads has deteriorated though the BMC has spent Rs 28,000 crore for road repairs over the last decade. 
 
 On water shortage, Nirupam said while Rs 10,000 crore was utilized in the last five years, the BMC is still unable to provide adequate drinking water owing to leakages and theft. 
 
 Nirupam added that it is also time the CM, as urban development minister, fix the responsibility for the Rs 10,000-crore solid waste disposal scam. “Neither steps were taken to set up a solid waste disposal plant, nor was a new dumping place created,” he said. 
 
 He also alleged that healthcare and school education is in mess owing to lack of political will. “The BMC refused treatment to 30,000 patients in the last 20 years owing to non-availability of ventilators. In civic hospitals, there is one bed for 4,500 patients instead of 1,000 patients. Even medical and paramedical staff are inadequate,” he said. “While 38 Marathi schools have shut down, 40,000 Marathi students have dropped out of civic schools.”
 
 
