CHENNAI:   will complete tunnelling for phase-1 of the project in less than three months, bringing to an end more than five years of work to complete 24km of tunnels under the arterial roads of the city. A small stretch of two tunnels each of about 1.2km remains to be built between Thousand Lights and AG-DMS below Anna Salai. With this, construction of lines for the 45km phase 1 of the metro rail network will come to an end. Construction of stations, however, is yet to be completed.

 Two tunnel boring machines are now excavating soil to build tunnels near Thousand Lights. Soon, the machines will begin drilling under Anna Flyover to reach AG-DMS.
 
 Engineers estimate that they will finish the work in three months, assuming that the machine will be able to drill at the rate of 10m per day.However, the current speed is 8m due to mixed soil content.
 
 “One machine is near Church Park School while the other is about 150m behind,“ said an official.
 
 The plan is to open the entire 7.3km stretch of Anna Salai from May Day Park to Saidapet, with six stations, at one go by mid-2018.
 
 While work is currently underway in the 4km underground line between May Day Park and AG-DMS, tunnelling is complete and track work has begun in the 3km stretch between AG-DMS and Saidapet.
 
 Engineers, however, say the three-month deadline could be met only if the soil condition continues to be favourable and does not pose a challenge that will force them to slow down the process. Also, any extra pressure while tunnelling may damage structures above, on the road.
 
 A metro rail official said the soil condition below Anna Salai is unlike the hard rocky soil they encountered near Central Station. Tunnelling between the high court and Chennai Central had to be slowed down to almost 3m a day, as applying more pressure to cut through the rocks and speed up work may have caused damage to the heritage structures above. Nevertheless, cutter heads had to be changed three to 15 times a week when they tunneled through that stretch.
 
 Though a mixed soil content in Anna Salai may not pose as much difficulty as it did near Central station, engineers are ensuring that drilling does not affect anything on the surface of the arterial road. “We are looking at completing 50m a week,“ said an official.
 
 In the midst of tunnelling, engineers also have to ensure the cutter heads work to their maximum capacity. One of the boring machines used below Anna Salai stopped work for more than a month, as engineers had to refit the machine with new cutter heads.
 
