Quepem-based singer Lawry Travasso’s latest Lenten   Mogachim Fullam (Flowers of Love) adds the fifth flower to his growing garland – Kagtachim Fullam (Paper Flowers), Pisudelelim Fullam (Torn Flowers), Baulelim Fullam (Wilted Flowers), Sandlelim Fullam (Lost Flowers) and Apurbaechim Fullam (Flowers of Affection).

 The star-studded tiatr was met with a thunderous applause when it was performed at   on Saturday evening. Instead of this tiatr commencing with the traditional opening chorus, a young couple, Sam (Franky Gonsalves) and Samantha (Antonette de Maina) are shown happily dancing in their home celebrating four years of wedded bliss. They are visited by Sam’s elder sister (played by Rosy Alvares) who tries to disrupt their marital life by taunting Samantha for failing to conceive a child and further insinuating that Samantha is having an illicit relationship with her brother-in-law Joel ( ).
 
 Blindly trusting the words of his elder sister, Sam scolds and physically assaults his wife. His younger brother Joel steps in and prevents Sam from harming Samantha.
 
 The family receives a visit from the local parish priest (played by Ulhas Tari) as they fail to respond to his request to meet him in the church. The parish priest is very concerned about their spiritual life and cautions Samantha’s husband and her sister-in-law against harassing her for being unable conceive a child .
 
 Upset with the frequent taunts, Joel leaves the house. Sam and his elder sister continue to torture Samantha. She finds refuge with the parish priest. Tiatrist Mario Menezes, who excels as the hen-pecked husband of Sam’s elder sister, snaps after 10 years of marriage and confronts his wife for aborting their child. 
 
 It is truly a delight to watch Antonette de Maina give comedy a go and rap along with the comedy quartet of John D’Silva, Janet Nunes e Almeida, Richard Colaco and Bryan Fernandes, who are at their hilarious best. Director Lawry Travasso performs a noteworthy cameo of a balloon seller who has gone ‘mad’ after the death of his wife. Narrating his tale to the parish priest, the balloon seller laments that ‘society had killed his wife by their constant taunts of her being childless’.
 
 Solos by Lawry, Tony de Ribandar, Rosy Alvares, Xavier Gomes, Marcus Vaz and Peter de Arambol are memorable, especially Vaz preaching on the ill-effects of being addicted to alcohol, tobacco and gambling. While Peter paid tribute to departed singer S Lemos, a duet by Tony de Ribandar and Antonette de Maina on the vandalisation of the statue of Our Lady of   was well appreciated by the audience. 
 
 A political song by Francis de Tuem along with Richard and Bryan on the recent   verdict banning liquor bars within 500m of national and state highways went down well with the audience. A similar response was given to the comedy quartet performed by Lawry, Bryan, Marcus and Xavier on migrants settling in Goa. 
 
 The music of Mogachim Fullam has been composed and arranged by Norman Cardozo who plays the keyboard alongside Theo Alvares on first trumpet, Senon De Souza playing the second trumpet, Canon D’Souza on bass and   on drums. Stage settings by Bobet de Kepem and John Hatts add to the story-telling. Light effects were handled by Tremson and transport arrangements were entrusted to Luis de Loutolim.
 
 
