JAISALMER: Out of dozens of tent resorts set up at world famous Sam sand dunes in Jaisalmer, many have come under the   for posing security threat as well as for being involved in  .

 Many of these resorts have not been registered with the police or district administration,  . The tent resort owners too give no information about foreign tourists staying in their resort to intelligence police. 
 
 With the increasing demand of tourists to spend night at desert, new tent resorts are mushrooming in the city by the day posing great security threat.
 
 There are possibilities that anti-social elements and anti-national elements could be staying at these tents with the tourists in the Sam area that’s situated near the Pak border. 
 
 Actually, for last some time there has been heavy demand of tourists to stay and spend night at the Sam desert and a large number of tent resorts have opened in Sam, Kanoi area some 10-20kms inside on both sides of the road. With no set guidelines for setting up of tent resorts and with no control of the district administration, during the tourist season, as the result, dozens of tent resorts come up having taken land on rent from the locals. During the summer season, these tent resorts are closed and owners return to their hometown. 
 
 Additional SP (CID-BI) Rajiv Dutta said these tent owners have to inform about the details of foreign tourists staying in their resorts by filling form C and F online. However, most of them do not follow this process and provide no details. 
 
 He said few days ago Saleh Naseer, resident of Saudi Arabia, stayed at a private tent resort and the resort owner did not inform about him to the CID BI. Later, the department lodged a case against the resort owner under the Foreigners Act.
 
 Meanwhile, SP Gaurav Yadav said that since there is no guideline for setting up tent resort in Sam and Khuhadi, the resort owners don’t bother about taking any permission or an NOC from the police administration. It is because of this that the administration gets no information about the resorts or details of foreingers staying there.
 
 Yadav said that soon a meeting with the district collector will be held to decide on the guidelines and implement rules towards registration of tent resorts. 
 
