KOLKATA: Till the other day,  , which links JL Nehru Road with KMC headquarters, was a privileged stretch in a city where every inch of road space in precious. With civic bosses using the road to travel to office and back, police ensured its proper upkeep. But even the VIP corridor couldn’t stand the test of time. Hawkers have finally managed to sneak in and gobble up the southern pavement adjoining  . 

 On Thursday evening, TOI found 28 stalls selling goods — ranging from imitation jewellery to apparel, belts, wallets and shoes, scarves, inner-wear, bedsheets, belts, hangars and umbrellas — on the coveted stretch. The opposite pavement was relatively free of encroachment with only one apparel stall occupying a big chunk at the   end. 
 
 “For only a couple of weeks ahead of Eid did hawkers set up stalls every year. But they wound up and left immediately after the festival. But this time, the hawkers never moved out. Some of us approached KMC and was asked to go to the police, who then directed us to union leaders. The latter pointed to local political leaders. It is a vicious cycle in which everyone is involved, and hence, no one will act,” said the owner of a shop on the stretch. 
 
 The encroachment of Chowringhee Place comes amidst allegations of pavements being sold by a network that includes local politicians, police and civic staff. Under the balcony of Grand Arcade, hawking space is being sold at Rs 25 lakh. With the footpath barely 5ft on Chowringhee Place and no shade above, the rate is considerably lower but still touches around Rs 10 lakh. The average turnover of hawkers selling apparel in this belt is Rs 50,000 a day.
 
 Such is the dominance of hawkers that shops that pay tax are on the verge of closure due to paucity of customers. While dala owners employ seven-eight hawkers, paying each Rs 800-900 daily, shop owners are feeling the pinch even paying Rs 230 a day to their sales staff. 
 
 A union leader at Gariahat candidly admits the situation in the New Market area has spun out of control. One Pratap who used to hawk in Gariahat had taken a stall on a daily rent of Rs 2,000 — or Rs 7.2 lakh a year — in New Market locality to increase his business volume. 
 
 “With so much money invested, it will be impossible to rein in anyone. Unless the CM reads the riot act, whatever roads remain unoccupied will be taken over soon,” he warned.
 
 
