NEW DELHI:  's move to register a case over alleged irregularities in  's Rs 225 crore software procurement in 2011would instil fear among PSU officials on taking decisions, the airline's chairman and managing director   has said in what is being seen as a warning on policy paralysis that plagued UPA-II.

 In a blog titled “Pinning the executive down; those who idle shall commit no mistakes!“, Lohani called the CBI move a “shock“ and claimed “the omnipresent shadow of vigilance and other probe agencies over processes undertaken by the executive has caused maximum damage to the public sector“. Lohani took over as AI chairman in August 2015.
 
 Lohani felt there may be procedural lacunae but “there is no apparent malafide in this case“. Agreeing that “perhaps there is more to it than meets the eye“, his blog, which was deleted, said such a probe would hit AI hard. Air India, that has been a victim of gross indecision in recent years and only lately had started to come out of its slumber, will also take a hit... I am absolutely certain as an outcome of the unfortunate turn that this case has now taken,“ Ashwani Lohanisaid, adding he was unable to appreciate the basic premise that a non-executive is required to keep an eye on every single aspect of working of the executive. “... That we should have checks and balances that are highly tilted in favour of the checks“.
 
 He pointed out the case will lead to “pain of digging out old papers, questioning of many including the innocent...“. After the blog was deleted, Lohani said in a Facebook post, “Tendering has with passage of time emerged as the biggest hurdle in sarkari organisations. Fear grips the minds of those involved in it, for even a slightest deviation even if helpful or carried out in the interest of the organisation can land people in a soup... When shall we start accepting the supremacy of deliverance and modify the tendering processes?“ The CBI had registered a case on Friday against unknown officials of German firm SAP AG and global computer major   in connection with alleged irregularities in procurement of software worth Rs 225 crore by the national carrier in 2011.
 
