PATNA: Even as Chanakya National Law University ( ) has announced the list of candidates selected for admission to the five-year BA LLB course under NRI quota on July 17, a section of aspirants smelt a rat in the process.

 In a petition to the CNLU authorities, they have alleged that many non-NRI candidates have been selected for admission under the NRI quota. “Only those candidates are eligible for admission against NRI seats who had declared their intention in this regard at the time of Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), 2017. But, at CNLU, the selection list contains the names of several other candidates who had not declared their interest for NRI quote,” they have written in the petition. 
 
 The aspirants even claimed that as many as 17 out of 20 top candidates of the first merit list announced by CNLU are non-NRIs who did not declare their NRI status at the time of CLAT. Thus, this selection procedure would harm the interest of a large number of candidates who had genuinely indicated their choice for NRI seats at the time of test, they said.
 
 However, CNLU registrar S P Singh countered the allegations and said even though CLAT is held for all the top national law institutions of the country, each institution has its own criteria for selection of candidates for admission under NRI quota.
 
 Singh said while some institutions ask the candidates to declare their choice at the time of entrance test, others select the NRI-sponsored candidates from the merit list of successful candidates of CLAT. Institutions like Gujarat National Law University, Gandhinagar, Ram Manohar Lohia National Law University, Lucknow, Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Punjab, and CNLU, Patna have already mentioned in their admission brochures that the admission on NRI seats will be made on the basis of CLAT ranking. At the same time, some institutions like the law universities of Bhopal, Jodhpur and Raipur ask the candidates to declare their choice while filling the university form for admission and only such candidates are considered for admission under NRI quota irrespective of their CLAT ranking. “Hence, there is nothing wrong in the selection process,” Singh said.
 
 
