MUMBAI:   on Tuesday declined to pass a “blanket’’ order allowing   III authorities to transport construction material, heavy machinery and debris at night, noting that it will affect citizen’s sleep.

 “Any human being needs 6-7 hours of peaceful sleep. Therefore, at any cost I am not willing to change it,’’ said   heading a division bench.
 
  Rail Corporation Ltd sought permission to allow at least transportation of construction material at night, citing the traffic police’s recent circular that bans heavy vehicles in South Mumbai from 7 am till midnight. Its advocate said it was facing difficulties as work during the day finishes by 5 pm and more construction material has to be brought to the sites and debris has to be taken away.
 
 Last month, the HC stayed carrying out construction or any ancillary work between 10pm-6am on a petition regarding “excessive noise’’ at night for the proposed Cuffe Parade station. Petitioner-advocate Robin Jaisinghani opposed MMRC’s plea, saying government and semi-government vehicles were exempted and can ply during the day. “As it is, we are already exposed to noise from vibrations, drilling and construction throughout the day,’’ he said.
 
 MMRC’s advocate said base noise of traffic is 75-80 decibels, and that it will keep the noise below 45 decibels. But it cut no ice with the court. “ If continuously there is drilling machine on, throughout the night nobody can sleep,’’ said the CJ.
 
 She spoke about noise by construction workers and her personal experience. “The people whom you employ, the way they shout! You feel like getting down and slapping them,’’ she said, adding that they play music on mobile phones while unloading material or removing debris. “It is not your person who will stand and supervise them. You’ll tell some contractor. If that can happen in my compound, then I can imagine how it happens in other places,’’ she added. 
 
 When MMRC’s advocate said Metro was a “public project’’, the CJ retorted, “If you can’t work during the day time, don’t do the work.”
 
 
