PANAJI: Dressed in a crisp white shirt with stripes, sitting in an imposing office at Goa’s police headquarters,   is nearly buried behind his large wooden desk. An unlikely musician, the state’s director general of police is preparing to perform at his life’s lengthiest solo music concert as a flautist this Saturday.

 “It is a hobby,” he insists, handing across a list of 25 classical music-based Hindi film melodies he will be playing with a transverse flute, for a gathering of Goa’s “most influential people”.
 
 The IPS officer has never received any formal training in music and is entirely self-taught.
 
 “I was 10 years old, when my father’s friend came to our house and he was playing a song for us on his flute. The children began asking him for the flute and he said that the one who is able to play even a note from the flute will get it. It is difficult for an untrained person to even be able to make a sound with a transverse flute. Many kids tried and did not succeed. But I did and got the flute as promised,” recalls Chander.
 
 And just like that, Chander picks up the flute and begins playing a verse of  , as though to join the dots between a profession and a hobby that cannot be more far removed from one another.
 
 By carefully observing street performers and minutely hearing film songs, Chander began replicating them through the flute, soon playing at his school in Delhi and later the  , where he graduated from with an electronics and telecommunications engineering degree.
 
 Coming from a family with no legacy of art and one with a tradition of pursuing engineering, Chander says that the thought of being a full-time musician never crossed his mind.
 
 “I can only practice based on the availability of time. Sometimes, I play for an hour and then I do not get an opportunity to look at the flute for the next ten days. On weekends, I am listening to the radio and then I just hear a song and I think it is perfect to be played on the flute and try it out. I usually try playing a song I have never attempted before,” says Chander, whose fondness for picking up challenges has landed him a host of degrees, including one in law.
 
 The melody of songs sung by Lata Mangeshkar and Mohammad Rafi always appeal more to him than others.
 
 Chander has performed on several occasions for the Delhi Doordarshan and even has an album to his name released in 2014, but he admits he has not attempted anything before on the scale at which he will perform on Saturday at Kala Academy.
 
 “Usually, I have played one or two songs or played as an accompaniment to other musicians. Playing 25 songs can put a strain on your breath and fingers, too,” says Chander, who also plays the mouth organ.
 
 
