CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday issued a notice to Haryana additional chief secretary (home) and the advocate general (AG) on a plea challenging the Haryana Law Officers (Engagement) Act, 2016, and subsequent rules that facilitate re-engagement of law officers.

 A division bench headed by   issued the notice after taking cognizance of a petition filed by advocate Pradeep  . The case would now come up for hearing on February 22.
 
 In his petition, Rapria has sought directions to quash the Haryana Law Officers (Engagement) Act, 2016, and rules framed thereafter for being ultra vires to the Constitution and directions of the apex court. Further directions have also been sought to produce the record to see steps taken to implement the guidelines framed by the   regarding appointments of law officers in advocate general's office.
 
 Terming the Act a ploy to completely defeat the Supreme Court verdict, Rapria, on whose petition the apex court had to frame the law, said the main law formulated by Haryana in August 2016 was already in contravention of SC verdict and further amendment had further complicated it.
 
 In its March 2016 verdict, the SC had laid down the procedure directing the two states to constitute a search committee that would recommend a panel of names to the chief justice of the high court, who shall revert with his views after consulting other judges.The state government can subsequently make appointments, the court had held.
 
 Though the Haryana government had framed a law in compliance of the SC verdict, it had tweaked the rules to accommodate already appointed law officers.
 
 On August 30, 2016, the Haryana state assembly had passed the Haryana Law Officers (Engagement) Act retaining discretionary powers with the state government and the advocate general in selection of law officers of the state. Though the new law was passed following the specific directions from the SC to the state to bring transparency in such appointments, which includes consultation with the chief justice, the new act has not included any such provisions suggested by the apex court.
 
 On January 3, the   government further approved the proposal to amend the Haryana Law Officers (Engagement) Act, 2016 to facilitate reengagement of law officers, whose term has expired after the commencement of the Act. The government even decided to bring an ordinance to effect the amendment considering delay in the session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha.
 
