HUBBALLI: Responding to the demand of Kannadigas, two out of three Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) of the twin cities have introduced   from 2016-17. Speaking to STOI, Mini Verma, former principal of KV 1, Hubballi, asserted that Kannada was introduced in class 6 to 8 in the beginning of academic year 2016-17 following a direction from  .

  “Though it was not mandatory, almost all students opted for it,” she added.
 
 Kalu Pasi, in-charge principal, KV-1, asserted that Kannada is being taught as an additional language and it will continue for 2017-18 also. “Though Kannada is not considered for scoring, students even from non-Kannada background are learning the language enthusiastically,” he added.
 
 Jyoti Laxmi, who teaches Kannada, said that the syllabus is of basic level. “About 175 students are learning Kannada in KV 1. They are being taught alphabets from class 6. We are conducting activities like storytelling, translation of sentences and stories in classrooms. Though it’s not mandatory for examination, all students are scoring over 50% in tests,” she observed.
 
 Sources in KV, Dharwad, informed that a teacher was appointed last year to teach Kannada. “As there are many students, who are Kannadigas, they easily learnt writing and reading this year,” they added.
 
 S Pon Adithi, a class 7 student, who is from  , said she was unable to read Kannada boards in public places though she has been residing in Hubballi for the past six years. “I was feeling ashamed to ask others while catching a bus. Now, I can easily read signboards written in Kannada,” she added.
 
 Another student P Santosh, who is also from Tamil Nadu, said that he was facing problem while communicating with people in his neighborhood as he did not know Kannada. “Now my confidence is enhanced as I have got a chance to learning Kannada at KV. As it is not mandatory for examinations, I am writing and reading it without the fear of getting failed or scoring less mark. If it was mandatory, it would have become a burden for us,” he said. 
 
 However, ST Metre, principal, KV-2, Hubballi, asserted that Kannada was not introduced in his school as there is no demand from students and parents. “Like in other two KVs, our school has not many children who are Kannadigas. Most of our students are from North India and they will be going to other states once in 3-4 years. If we get such a demand from students or parents, we will also definitely introduce Kannada as an additional language as well,” he added.
 
