PANAJI: India coach   has included two NRIs in his final squad of 21 for the   next month.

 Defender  , who moved to the   when he was six years old, and  , a strapping giant of a goalkeeper from  , have both got the go ahead from the Portuguese coach.
 
 It is for the first time that two NRI footballers have been included in the Indian team, and with Namit definite to find a place in the starting eleven, possibly even against United States in the opener on October 6, the record is his for the taking.
 
 There was a question mark over Sunny's inclusion, particularly with three talented goalkeepers ­ Dheeraj Singh, Prabhsukhan Singh Gill and Mohammad Nawaz all gi ving a good account of themselves for a long time now. But, with a difficult choice to make, Matos chose Sunny ahead of Nawaz.
 
 Many of the other players were automatic choices. Captains Amarjit Singh, Jitendra Singh, Suresh Singh and Sanjeev Stalin were the first four names on the coach list, while there was never any doubt over the inclusion of regulars like Aniket Jadhav, Anwar Ali, Komal Thatal, Abhijit Sarkar and Boris Singh, who will miss the opening clash due to suspension.
 
 Jeakson Singh, who was down with dengue fever during the Bengaluru leg of preparations but has now regained full fitness has made the cut but Rohit Danu was not so lucky .
 
 The youngest member of the squad suffered an ankle injury during training in Bengaluru and Matos didn't want to take any chances with limited choice available.
 
 Mumbai lad Suarabh Meher can also count himself unlucky . The midfielder scored an impressive goal against Mauritius on Thursday but, clearly , that wasn't enough to convince the Portuguese coach.
 
 “We believe that we are prepared for the U-17 World Cup. We have worked hard and made progress, but at the same time we go directly to a high level competition against some of the best teams in the world,“ said Matos.
 
 India have been placed in group A and will play US in the opener on October 6. India's other group opponents include Colombia and former champions Ghana.
 
 
 
 Coach Luis Norton de Matos ma de eight changes at the start of the second half and replaced all his outfield players who started the game as India warmed up for the Fifa U-17 World Cup with a comfortable 3-0 victory over Mauritius at the Nagoa ground in South Goa on Thursday .
 
 Boris Singh opened the scoring in the 68th minute before late goals from Saurabh Meher (82nd) and Aniket Jadhav (90th) added gloss to the scoreline.
 
 
