BEGUSARAI: Motorcycle-borne criminals shot   (32), the owner of Surya Shivam   at Hardia on   state highway under Begusarai Muffassil police station late Friday night. Lakshmi was a resident of Patna.

 Police sources said the criminals killed Lakshmi when he resisted their attempt to snatch the cash kept at the pump office. The criminals escaped after scaring the pump staff. 
 
 This was the third incident of violence at a petrol pump in the district in the last fortnight. On Tuesday, the munshi of a petrol pump on NH-31 under Lakho police outpost was shot by motorcycle-borne criminals. The incident occurred on the eve of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s visit here to unveil the statue of Dr P Gupta at   in Godargama village. 
 
 Criminals had looted a petrol pump at Sahebpurkamal under the same police station area on May 13. “Incidentally, there has been a significant rise in cases of petrol pump loot across the state during the last few months, forcing the petrol pump dealers to resort to a token one-day strike in Patna last month,” said one of the petrol pump owners. 
 
 Begusarai Petrol Pump Dealers’ Association secretary Dinesh Tibrewal on Saturday said he along with a delegation of local dealers met Begusarai SP Ranjit Kumar Mishra and demanded arrest of the criminals involved in loot and murder and safety on petrol pumps in the district.
 
 The SP said three criminals, including one Raja, were arrested in this connection. Raja is allegedly the mastermind of petrol pump loots. “More arrests are expected shortly. The bike used by criminals in the Lakho petrol pump loot case has also been recovered. Besides, police have also recovered two countrymade pistols and ten live cartridges from the possession of the arrested criminals,” he said. 
 
 He, however, ruled out loot as the motive of Friday incident since the amount looted is just Rs5,000 as per the FIR lodged in this connection. “Had the motive been loot, the criminals would not have left behind the cash kept at the counter,” he said.
 
