MUMBAI: The BKC-based   on Friday arrested Thane resident Manish Bhangale (28) for allegedly creating a fake email id and forging phone call records to show communication between senior   leader and former state revenue minister   and fugitive gangster  's   residence. The police said self-styled `ethical hacker' Bhangale also created a fake phone bill. Bhangale's lawyer claims the cyber police have made him a scapegoat after asking him to be at the police station on Thursday to help them in the Khadse case.“It is a clear case of the police's inability to nab the real culprit. Bhangale is innocent and tried to help the govern ment by submitting the pertinent details to the high court in April 2016, seeking a probe into five Indian cellphone numbers to which he found calls were made from Dawood's residence (refer to graphic for details). He obtained call details of the gangster's residential landline number,“ Bhangale's lawyer Geetanjali Lokhande told TOI.

 “The police have now told him to cooperate as they want to close the matter soon. They have assured him that he will be a free man if he accepts it was all his fault,“ she said.
 
 Joint commissioner of police (crime) Sanjay Saxena said, “Bhangale's exact motive for the forgery is yet to be known.“ On his lawyer's allegations that he has been framed, Saxena said the mat ter is in court and a probe is on.
 
 A case was registered against Bhangale after someone close to Khadse approached the cyber police.Bhangale has been remanded in police custody till April 6. It is learnt that the person who complained against Bhangale has a case against him before the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED).
 
 Bhangale's lawyer said, “He is the one who wanted to help the police. Last year, the police took his help to track down gangster Ravi Pujari's aides.“
 
 The lawyer said the police didn't get Khadse's call details for January-March 2015 as sought by Bhangale, and instead looked at September 2015 to April 2016, which Bhangale didn't mention.
 
