KOLKATA: This spring, Kolkata has had a virus too many . While   is a   that keeps returning every February-March, this time it has struck scores of Kolkatans, including children, a second time, which is unusual.Experts say it could either be altered antigens that are turning vaccines ineffective or a poor maintenance of the cold chain of vaccines that have been negating their preventive powers.

 Around 20% of children below eight years now suffer a   of chicken pox, according to an estimate by medical practitioners. Even though less than 5% of adults suffer a repeat attack, the number was still worryingly high, they felt. “The number of those suffering a second bout of chicken pox was very high compared to previous years.When it strikes a second time, the symptoms turn out to be less severe but it still leaves you weak,“ said Samarjit Naskar, consultant, Belle Vue Clinic.
 
 Twelve-year-old Ayush Sen had an attack a week before his final exam three weeks ago. His parents were left surprised for Ayush, a class VI student, had been vaccinated. “When we confronted his paediatrician, the doctor told us that vaccines always have a 10% failure rate,“ said Arnab Sen, Ayush's father. There have been scores like him this season.
 
 City paediatricians have started recommending a booster vaccine for children at the age of five. Even though vaccines are supposed to provide life-long immunity , a single shot is no longer enough, they admitted. “There could be several reasons behind this. First, immunity is going down due to improper diet and pollution.Secondly , chicken pox antigens have changed over time.So, vaccination may not work beyond a period of time,“ said Santanu Ray , paediatrician. According to paediatrici an Santanu Ray , nearly one in every five children in the city has had a second bout of chickenpox despite being vaccinated.
 
 Chickenpox is triggered by the virus, varicella zoster, which also causes herpes. The symptoms are easily recognizable -fever with skin rashes and blisters all over the body , particularly chest, back and face. It is a highly contagious airborne disease that spreads with sneeze and cough of an infected person. Usually , those with a lower immunity are more susceptible to a second at tack, said consultant Debashish Saha. But the number of those affected twice has been on the rise, he said. “It is usually the elderly who are more vulnerable since immunity decreases with age. Also, those with diabetes, malnutrition, kidney disease, liver disease and those who have undergone an organ transplant tend to have a second attack,“ said Saha.
 
 Vaccines are still the most effective way of combating the disease, Saha feels. “In most cases, vaccines work. They help the body develop anti-bodies to the virus and prevent an attack. But I suspect the cold chain of vaccines is not always being maintained properly. This is turning them impotent,“ he reasoned.
 
 It could rather be the twin effect of pollution and an improper diet that is making youngsters vulnerable, feels Ray .“While these are reducing immunity , the virus antigens could also have altered over time,“ he said. Irfaan Akhtar, microbiologist at Fortis Hospital, echoed Saha: “While the antigens could have changed, there's always a section which doesn't respond to vaccines. They are called `non-responders', who don't generate sufficient anti-bodies to fight the virus antigens despite vaccination.It happens in case of hepatitis Bvirus as well,“ said Akhtar.
 
