NAGPUR: Until few years ago almost every patient suffering from medium or big blockages of   was subjected to an angioplasty or a bypass surgery. But in since 4-5 years,   in India are using a technique Fractional Flow Ratio (FFR) to decide whether the person needs stent.

 Since March this year, interventional cardiologists across the globe are focusing on a superior technique called instantaneous wave-free ratio or instant flow reserve (iFR). 
 
 The technique has been tried by two city doctors who are among those planning to adopt it.
 
 The procedure uses a computerized system to measure the exact blood pressure at the beginning and end of a block in a blood vessel. The ratio of the two figures of pressure is called instant flow reserve. Patients with values above 0.89 do not require any intervention. 
 
 The technique works on the similar principle of measuring the ratio of the pressure on the proximal and distal end of the block. But unlike FFR, it does not require the use of vaso-dilator drugs like adenosine is used. 
 
 “The procedure helps eliminate the side effects of the drug and reduces the overall cost. The results obtained are very specific, which helps the doctor to take the right decision, said interventional cardiologist Dr Prashant Jagtap.
 
 Dr Jagtap and another senior interventional cardiologist Dr Uday Mahorkar tried treated three patients using the iFR technique at a workshop held in the city a few months ago. 
 
 Dr Sayan Sen from Imperial College of London guided the duo. Dr Sen was the medical director of FLAIR trial, a global multi-center randomized study which compared iFR to existing techniques.
 
 Dr Jagtap and Dr Mahorkar are among the city cardiologists who are planning to update their equipment. The iFR unit costs almost Rs 50 lakh, an additional input of about Rs 10 lakh . 
 
 “I am strongly considering to upgrade my system. It is in interest of patients and helps avoid unnecessary stenting. It is also more accurate,” said Dr Mahorkar.
 
 Dr Jagtap told TOI that the iFR technique was tested at two major trials in the world, Define FLAIR and IFR SWEDE HEART. The trials are being discussed at the ongoing Euro-PCR -2017 at Paris. 
 
 “Both the trials had over 2000 patients each. The trials were published in the   and were discussed during the   meeting in March.”
 
 It is a very good tool for dealing with cases of multiple blocks, he added.
 
