LUCKNOW: Till Friday, Ramanand was just any other  . However, a visit to a new client of his turned him into a celebrity within hours. The 50-year-old was called by UP’s new chief minister   for his shave. As the news spread, scores of people gathered outside his shop to congratulate him even as news channels lined up for interview. 

 “Uparwale ka tohfa tha (it was a godsend gift),” said an awe-struck Ramanand. “It took an hour to settle down after coming back. I asked my nephew to pinch me,” said the barber, who earns his livelihood from the small shop which has a seating capacity of one and broken furniture. It was around 10am that two men came on a motorbike and stopped in front of his shop. “They inquired about ‘Ramanand Barber’. I told them it is me. They told me to get ready and that I had to shave chief minister Yogi Adityanath at VVIP guest house. My first reaction was ‘please don’t make such jokes on me. However, they were serious and told me to get ready quickly,” recalled Ramanand.
 
  “I was in two minds. I thought they might be kidnappers. But then I thought, I have never harmed anyone in my life, why would anybody harm me.” 
 
 After reaching VVIP guest house, Ramanand said he turned numb. “Never before in life have I cut the hair of any prominent personality. I was allowed in the brightly lit room of the CM without any security check. The CM was sitting on a chair. I touched his feet and sought blessings. In 25 minutes, I completed the shaving job and was dropped home. The first person I told this to was my wife Sita,” he said. When asked how much he charged the CM for his services, Ramanand said, “My fees is Rs 50, but I didn’t ask for payment.”
 
 Ramanand hails from Basti and has been residing in Lucknow since 35 years. He runs the shop owned by his maternal uncle Ram Kishore. He has five children. The locals were happy and hopeful that the development would usher in ‘achchhe din’ for their neighbourhood. 
 
 Satyaprakash Verma, who had come for a hair cut to Ramanand’s salon, said, “There are many civic issues here. Now, we will take Ramanand along to meet officials. They will react after seeing him.”
 
