Visakhapatnam: With the defence ministry and tourism ministry planning to convert the decommissioned   into a tourism project anywhere in the country, the AP government is leaving no stone unturned to acquire the project.

 The tourism ministry is to convene a secretary-level meeting in New Delhi on April 13 with representatives of the states willing to take up the project. The state government has decided to send its tourism secretary to the meeting and explain the state’s plans if it gets the decommissioned vessel.
 
 Speaking to TOI, AP tourism principal secretary N Srikanth said, “We are going to attend the meeting at New Delhi and explain our views and plans to convert INS Viraat into a tourism attraction through a power point presentation.” 
 
 Sources said representatives of other states like Goa, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Gujarat will also participate in the secretary-level meeting. 
 
 A campaign to convert INS Viraat into a museum initiated by Vikram Gulati on www.change.org in March first week has received 26,280 signatures till 7 pm on Monday. The campaign still needs 8,700 signatures to be delivered to the defence ministry and Prime Minister.
 
 The sources said the state government in association with Indian Navy and a private agency was already carrying out feasibility study to check the viabilities and its financial capacities to maintain the project in Visakhapatnam. “The preliminary feasibility report will be presented at the New Delhi meet,” a source said.
 
 A retired defence personnel opined that almost all developed countries prefer to convert their decommissioned naval fleet into historical museums. “Except INS Kursura in Visakhapatnam, the country unfortunately could not convert many of its fleet as museums. INS Vikrant also ended up being sold as scrap,” the personnel added.
 
 The 24,000 tonne INS Viraat is the world’s oldest serving warship since it was commissioned in 1959 in the Royal Navy and then migrated to India in 1987. The Indian Navy used it as a flagship aircraft carrier for its defence operations. It was decommissioned on March 6 this year.
 
 
