CHENNAI:   J   was allowed a “natural cessation of life” on December 5, a day after she was put on support system following a cardiac arrest, Apollo Hospitals has told the Madras high court. The hospital, however, did not specify who gave the consent for the decision.

 “A medical decision was taken to allow a  ,” it submitted on Thursday in response to a PIL filed by P A Joseph seeking appointment of three former Supreme Court judges to investigate the treatment details. The hospital said the former chief minister did not want her photographs during the period to be released.
 
 The state government also said, for the first time, that on September 22, 2016, when she was admitted to hospital, she had ‘underlying co-morbidities’, along with fever and dehydration. A team of doctors from AIIMS, Delhi was deputed by the Centre on its request, it government said.
 
 In his counter-affidavit, the hospital chairman said: “All information released by Apollo Hospitals pertaining to the treatment of the late chief minister was done as per her wishes. The late chief minister had expressed her desire that no photographs be released.” Underscoring the hospital’s obligation to maintain Jayalalithaa’s privacy, he told a bench of acting chief justice Huluvadi G Ramesh and justice R Mahadevan that the hospital released statements during the 75-day hospitalization “only on request of the state government in the interests of maintaining public order and minimizing speculation and rumour-mongering.”
 
 The hospital complied with the MCI Code of Ethics and the Joint Commission International (JCI) norms, which require hospitals to inquire into, and respect, each patient’s privacy preferences. It includes whether the patient objects to sharing information with family or third parties, or whether the patient has any objections to being photographed, it said.
 
 The best care was provided and she was attended to by an AIIMS team deputed by the Centre, it said .
 
 As for the reported recovery of Jayalalithaa and her sudden demise on December 5, the hospital said: “The chief minister was admitted on September 22, 2016 and showed improvement with initial treatment, the ailment progressed and was continually tested and diagnosed and treated with indications that the treatment was moving on a positive scale, right until the time of her sudden cardiac arrest on December 4, 2016. Even at that state, resuscitation procedures were immediately initiated, and only after continued lack of response that a medical decision was taken to allow a natural cessation of life on December 5, 2016.”
 
 In their affidavit, state health and home department officials said Jayalalithaa was admitted to the hospital on the night of September 22, 2016 with complaints of fever and dehydration and underlying co-morbidities.
 
 K M Vijayan, senior counsel for the PIL-petitioner, however, objected to the counter-affidavits, saying they were identical.
 
 Madana Gopal Rao, senior counsel representing the Centre, objected to the Prime Minister’s Office having been unnecessarily named in the case and sought its removal.
 
 The bench gave the Centre two weeks to file a counter, in which it could raise those points. The case was then adjourned to March 13 for further hearing.
 
 
