Ludhiana: The Special Task Unit (STU) of Ludhiana police have arrested two more members of the ‘Baba Gang’ who were involved in gang wars, smuggling of liquor/narcotics and sheltering gangsters and their accomplices. The police have also seized two weapons, 315 bore pistols with two catridges and .32 bore pistol with five cartridges and two magazines from their possession. The Division no 6 police have registered a case under arms act on Saturday.

 The arrested accused have been identified as Paramjit Singh of Golden Avenue, on Rahon road and Rohit Dhir of Nakodar, Jalandhar who was arrested from near Cheema Chowk.
 
 Paramjit and Rohit are close friends with Honey Kumar who was the main weapon supplier of the Baba Gang and his kingpin Dilpreet Singh alias Baba. Importantly, Honey Singh and three more gang members Sikandar Singh, Sohan Lal and Mandeep Kumar have already been arrested by the Ludhiana police. 
 
 The additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP- Crime) Satnam Singh told that Paramit is basically an illegal liquor and narcotics smuggler close to Honey. He has been booked in several smuggling cases. On other side, Rohit was a close aide of Gangster Harinder Singh alilas Jindi who killed Raju Nakodariya. Rohit was also involved in the murder of Raju, however somehow he was not booked in the case. Through Jindi, Rohit got in touch with Paramjit. 
 
 Later Dhir got sentenced in a rape case and after completing his sentence he took to smuggling with Paramjit who introduced him to Honey. 
 
 In-charge of STU, inspector Prem Singh said, “Both the accused have sheltered members of the Baba Gang several times. They would get illegal weapons from Honey and would get their illegal work done.” 
 
 Prem told though the Baba Gang is not active in Ludhiana, the Ludhiana police have been tracing them, as the gang members including Dilpreet Baba, were in Ludhiana on July 15, when the Pastor Sultan Masih was killed outside the church ‘Temple of God’ in Peeru Banda Mohalla of Salem Tabri area. 
 
 The official though has clarified that the role Baba Gang has not been ascertained in the killing of pastor. 
 
 
