MUMBAI: Amidst reports that the BJP and Shiv Sena may go solo for the BMC elections, Uddhav Thackeray, flagging off the Sena's campaign for the Mumbai elections on Wednesday, said President   should prevent the Modi government from presenting the   before elections to five states. Thackeray told a party conclave that he would soon send a delegation of Sena MPs to Mukherjee in this connection.

 This, said analysts, is by far the Sena's most virulent onslaught on the BJP in the run-up to the Mumbai civic polls which are scheduled for February. The Union budget will be unveiled on February 1, and Sena strategists are worried, not without reason, that PM   may announce a slew of sops to woo voters, thus upsetting the Sena's poll calculations in Mumbai.Matoshree has pulled out all stops to retain the country's richest civic body.
 
 The Sena has already begun putting roadblocks in the BJP regime's prestigious projects for Mumbai -such as Metro-III and the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train.
 
 Civic elections in Thane, Pune, Nashik and scores of local self-governing bodies are crucial for the Sena in view of the party's tumultuous equations with the BJP and, more significantly, the latter's upward graph in the first two rounds of electioneering in rural Maharashtra.
 
 Addressing a Sena conclave held at a Bandra auditorium, Thackeray said party MPs will shortly meet the President and urge him to stop the Centre from presenting the budget before elections to the Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Utta rakhand,   and Goa legislative assemblies. The   announced the poll schedule for the five states earlier in the day.
 
 Thackeray also demanded PM Modi should not go on the campaign trail as he belonged to the entire nation and not just one party . “The PM shouldn't seek votes for a particular party. After all, he belongs to the entire country,“ Thackeray said and, without mentio ning Modi by name, described him as Santa Claus who hops around with a parcel of sops. “In present times, 'achche din' means people are at least keeping their body and soul together,“ he added sarcastically .
 
 On BJP-Sena poll ties, he said a final decision will be taken by the party's grass root units at the local level. “But there will be no alliance at the cost of the party's honour and self-respect,“ he warned.
 
