KOLKATA::  ,   who was bestowed with the   award last week, was back to responding to the   last weekend.

 On Sunday evening, he put on his trademark yellow helmet, slipped into his long gum boots, hailed a taxi and rushed to a blazing inferno in Beliaghata. Once at the spot, Bipin grabbed the hosepipe and dashed into a blazing shed.
 
 “I am the same man. Nothing has changed,” said Bipin at his modest residence on Debendra Mullick Street off Central Avenue. “I think there is a small difference,” he says after a pause. “I now have huge responsibility on my shoulders. I cannot ignore any cries for help because that has got me such an honour in the first place,” said Bipin.
 
 On Sunday, too, when a friend called him up to inform him of the fire, Bipin did not waste a single second. “I called up the control room and took down the address. Then I dressed up for my work and took a taxi to the fire spot,” Bipin said in his trademark affable manner.
 
 Did he even think twice before risking his life by going into an inferno and later on getting his hands dirty while checking the debris to see if anybody was trapped? He is after all now a Padma Shri and not an ordinary firefighter. “No. Never,” Bipin said resolutely. “Whenever I see a house on fire, the only thought in my mind is to rescue the people inside.”
 
 It is not every day that a Padma Shri is fighting the leaping flames with you. “For decades, Bipin has always been very helpful during big firefighting operations. But now, after winning the Padma award, he will also inspire our young firefighters who can look up to him and know that hard work will eventually pay off,” said a senior fire department officer.
 
 Visitors and congratulatory messages have been pouring in. On Sunday evening, Bipin was headed to Amherst Street where an organisation honoured him. “I am contemplating going out of the city for a few days so that this stops. I am a simple man and not used to such adulation. I want to continue fighting blazes till I breathe my last,” said Bipin.
 
 Once a fighter, always a fighter.
 
 
