GURUGRAM: Since the mayor’s chair has been reserved for a woman who contests the   election in a seat earmarked for scheduled castes, the probable list has narrowed down to just three candidates who are fighting on the BJP symbol. 

  is contesting from  ,   from Ward 7 and   from Ward 17. While Azad has successfully completed her senior secondary examination, Mukesh and Rani have passed Class X and Class VIII, respectively. The minimum educational qualification needed to contest in these reserved seats is passing Class 5.
 
 While only wards 1 and 7 are reserved exclusively for women candidates belonging to the SC category, ward 17 is open to male candidates as well from the the scheduled castes. However, there are no male contestants in this ward this year and the only two candidates are Geeta and Rajni Sahni.
 
 The chances of Geeta winning are bright as there is only one opponent. The other factor which seems to be working in favour of Geeta is that her husband Sumer Singh Tanwar has been associated with BJP for a very long time and enjoys the support of the party leadership.
 
 The other two probables for the mayor’s post will, however, have to face a fierce contest. Both Mukesh and Madhu will have to battle it out against three opponents each in their respective wards. And if there is a repeat of the last time, when Gurgaon MP Rao Inderjit Singh had a major say in deciding who the   will be, then his close aide Madhu could get the top slot.
 
 “The fight is clearly between Madhu and Geeta, and if Geeta is able to get a comfortable victory then she will become the mayor. However, it is going to be difficult for her to win as her opponent Rajni is the wife of Dalip Kumar Sahni who till recently was with BJP. Sahni tried to get a ticket from the BJP but was denied at the last minute after which, she decided to contest as an independent,” said a party insider. “So, in case Geeta is not able to win from her ward and if Madhu manages to win from hers, she could become the next mayor of Gurgaon. In case both of them lose, Mukesh will become the mayor,” he added.
 
 Talking to TOI, Rao Inderjit Singh, Gurgaon MP and Union minister, said, “Last time, the pool was big from which we had to select the mayor, but this time we should not have much problem since the pool is small.”
 
 
