BENGALURU: Starting December 29, 2016,   ( ) across the state have revised rates for many services. For instance, the fee to procure a driving licence has been revised to Rs 200 from Rs 50. For learner’s licence, the amount has gone up from Rs 30 to Rs 150.

 This is as per a notification issued by the Centre to state transport departments on July 28, 2016. However, there’s confusion galore over implementation of the new rates. And this is primarily because software across RTO offices is yet to be updated.
 
 Said MP Omkareshwari, joint commissioner (e-governance): "Some RTOs are yet to get the official notification and, therefore, haven’t begun levying the new fee. Also, a lot of them are waiting for the software to be updated. As of now, receipts that are being generated mention the old fee."
 
 What’s more, the 66 RTOs are yet to come to a consensus on the nitty-gritty of the revised fee structure. For instance, if a person’s driving licence expired prior to December 29, but he approaches the RTO for its renewal only now, should he pay penalty as per the old or the new rate?
 
 Another confusion that RTOs are facing is with regard to classification of vehicles for issuance of trade certificate to vehicle dealers. As per the new notification, trade certificate issuance will cost Rs 500 per two-wheeler and Rs 1,000 for all other vehicles. Earlier, the fee levied was Rs 50 per two-wheeler and Rs 100 for four-wheelers, and other types of vehicles.
 
 Omkareshwari said she’ll soon convene a meeting of all transport authorities and RTOs to iron out these issues. Officials in the department said RTOs need clarity on the matter, especially because the number of new vehicles registered shoots up between January and March every year. As per the department’s annual report, last year, in Bengaluru alone, 25,000 new vehicles were registered every month.
 
 
 
 
 Sumit Roy, a north Bengalurean, is planning to add another category of vehicle to his driving licence and renew it. “Till now, I didn’t even know that the fee to issue a DL was only Rs 50. Two years ago, I paid Rs 500 to an agent near Rajajinagar RTO to get an LL and DL within a week. Once you get the DL, you hardly go back to see what was mentioned in the challan. Now, it doesn’t matter to me if the fee is hiked.”
 
 Like Sumit, many in the city get their LL and DL through agents and driving schools. Most   charge Rs 1,000 for LL and DL from those who enrol with them. Muniyappa R, who runs a driving school in Kodigehalli, explains the logic behind the high rates these schools charge. “We pay a hefty sum to get a licence for the school and also its renewal. This apart, we have to pay rent for the building and EMIs for the vehicles. Also, cost of repairing vehicles is huge. Further, we have to employ a person to go and fill the forms, get all documents and queue up at RTO offices to get signatures from the concerned officials. People don’t understand the complications involved and also don’t have time to go through all of it,” he said.
 
 
