HYDERABAD: Six batches of students who completed a diploma in child health postgraduate course from Karimnagar's   (PIMS) are unable to apply for government jobs as   (MCI) has refused to register their certificates.

 The students have spent lakhs on the specialised courses in the private medical colleges and are caught in a fix. They cannot appear for exams notified by the Telangana state government for posts in primary health centres without these certificates. The government recently notified 28 posts of paediatrics in primary health centres. “Despite clearing my two-year PG diploma course five years ago and spending Rs 28 lakhs, I can neither practice as a paediatrician nor apply for government job without getting my certificate registered with the   first,“ said a student.
 
 While threat ening to take MCI to court, the doctor said that delay in recog nising their course had affected six batches (comprising two doctors in one batch and 12 doctors in all) of specialist doctors who passed out from the college.
 
 Though the MCI gave a letter of permission (LoP) to PIMS to start the twoyear PG diploma course in 2009, MCI is yet to give official recognition to the course despite conducting several inspections.Most recently , it inspected the college in 2014 and 2016.
 
 “Under the rules, we cannot register the certificate of a PG medical graduate from any medical college unless that par ticular course is recognised by the MCI.The rule is simple: No recognition, no registration,“ said Dr E   , chairman, Telangana state medical council.
 
 Though private medical colleges can admit students in any course merely by obtaining an LoP , it is not enough for approval for the course. “LoP is to start the course but if the seats are not recognised later on, the students will not be considered specialists till the institution gets recognition. No state medical council will register their degrees. The college management should be blamed for not fulfilling the criteria,“ said K Ramesh Reddy , member, MCI.
 
 However, representatives of Telangana private medical colleges association said that delaying recognition to a course is a regular tactic adopted by MCI. “Even after giving an LoP to start a course, we have seen that MCI takes three to four years to give recognition,“ said the representative. Achanta Vivekananda, dean, PIMS, said, “We are not at fault as we fulfilled all conditions needed to obtain recognition.
 
