A bulldozer circles a chimney at India United Mills Dye Works aka   on   The chimney, a ‘talao’ and a few wall fragments are all that survive of the ED Sassoon Turkey Red Dye Works (Indu Mills), established in 1890 by the illustrious Sassoon family. The rest of the complex with its large sheds sporting north-light trusses -- a series of sloping roofs with glass on the north side for natural light to stream in -- have been razed to make way for the new  . 

 At the far end of the complex, a vernacular-style bungalow with sloping roofs and a large verandah still stands. The cottage is unremarkable except for the fact that it was the residence of Jacob Sassoon, grandson of the famous David Sassoon, who migrated to Bombay from Baghdad and established a trading and banking empire earning his family the moniker "the Rothschilds of the East". 
 
 Jacob and his father, Elias Sassoon, acquired their first textile mill in 1890 and named it Alexandra Mill after the wife of the Prince of Wales. The success of Alexandra Mill led Jacob to build ED Sassoon Mill in memory of his father, who died soon after their first mill was purchased. He equipped this mill with the newest machinery and though he was obliged to hire Hindu workers, he tried to get Jewish managers propelling a wave of Jewish immigration.
  
 "They were offered many tempting benefits," writes author Shaul Sapir in his book ‘Bombay: Exploring the Jewish Urban Heritage’. This included "employment for adults at the cotton textile mills, good schools for their children as well as synagogues and health services". 
 
 By 1905, ED Sassoon and Company, run by Jacob, owned five proprietary textile establishments including the Dye Works in Dadar and Parel's Jacob Sassoon Mill, which was inaugurated in 1893 amidst much fanfare. This mill, which was considered to be one of the largest on the Indian subcontinent, had 3,000 employees and was capable of producing 16,000 pounds of cloth.
 
 In the 1930s, following the Great Depression, the Sassoon business suffered massive losses. By 1941, Jacob was forced to sell off his family business and all the mills to a group of Marwari investors known as Aggarwal & Company. He then migrated to Shanghai and became a real estate speculator.
  
 After being expelled from Shanghai by Japanese occupiers during World War II, he returned to Bombay and lived in the sea-facing bungalow off Cadell Road. Architect Shashi Prabhu explains that the bungalow will serve as a site office until the Ambedkar memorial is complete. When asked if it could be retained alongside the memorial, Prabhu said it was currently slated for demolition.
 
 Most conservationists and historians agree that not just the bungalow but the entire Dye Works complex is part of the city's "intangible heritage". According to the Indian Textile Journal (ITJ), the Dye Works at Cadell Road was electrified in 1923. Bleaching and cloth printing of various fancy patterns was extended in 1926 and a cloth mercerizing plant and a roller engraving plant were set up between 1931 and 1936.
  
 "All of Bombay's mills were very technologically advanced even at that time," says conservation architect Vikas Dilawari. "That is what made Bombay the finest city East of the Suez."
  
 In the late 1960s, the entire Sassoon group of mills and the Dye Works, since known as the India United Mills 1-6, were nationalized by the Indira Gandhi government because of mismanagement by the group of investors. Once the National Textile Corporation (NTC) was formed in 1972-74, these mills came under its purview.
  
 Currently, a 44,000sqft Textile Mill Museum is being planned in the United Mills 2 & 3 compound. Thus, some of Mumbai's "intangible heritage" might yet be saved.
 
