HUBBALLI: The   (Huda) website was inactive for a fortnight till TOI alerted the officials. Activists smell something fishy in the crashing of the website. 

 Civic rights activist Dr M C Sindhur alleged that Huda neglected the website to hide the errors it committed in the revised   (CDP). “For instance, a garden located in survey number 39/1 disappeared from the CDP, which Huda describes as a master plan. If citizens want to know such errors, they have to visit the Huda office. It was announced that the CDP will be uploaded online and objections will also be received online. Now they have intentionally scrapped the website and have dropped transparency from their proceedings,” he alleged before the website was reinstated.
 
 RTI activist Aravind Meti said that the website was active till the end of January. “But it crashed in February first week. We called the Huda office and requested to rectify it. But no action was taken till today,” he said.
 
 M M Patil, a retired official, said that his son, who works in Bengaluru, could not find the CDP on the website. “As the website crashed, he suggested me to visit the office. I went there and found that whole CDP is displayed on the second floor of the building and the lift was under repair. It was painful to climb the staircase. I did not even get a chair to sit,” he said.
 
 Marigouda Kenchanagoudra, who came from Tarihal, said that he had to change two buses to reach the Huda office in Navanagar. “Had the website been active, my brother would have checked it online,” he said.
 
 Techie and social activist Sunil Nalavade opined that when the owner fails to pay for the bandwidth, the website becomes inactive. “Huda needs to maintain the website. Officials should have known about the required bandwidth for their website,” he said.
 
 A staff at Huda, on condition of anonymity, revealed that the website was redesigned two months ago. Huda commissioner   was unavailable for comment.
 
 “It was not intentional, but due to some technical reasons. We are always into the principle of transparency,” said  , chairman, Huda.
 
