KANNUR: Should the appeal system be abolished or restricted? This was the question that was doing the rounds after the   began on January 16. But, when the festival recorded 1,745 lower appeals and also many appeal participants topped the chart, it has once again kick-started a debate whether it would be right to restrict appeal.

 Opposition leader   was of the opinion that appeals were the last resort for those who were denied justice. “I agree that there should be some restrictions on appeals, but that should not result in eligible participants being denied justice," he said pointing towards the lack of transparency and poor quality in the conduct of the festival at the sub-district level.
 
 There were many cases in which the appeal entries came first in the state-level competition, which showed the problem at the lower-level, and hence this should be rectified, he said. “I feel the judging process at the lower-level was not right,“ he said.
 
 It was the complaints at different levels that made the government to think about amending the festival manual to make it a real festival, said education minister C Raveendranath.“Every event maintained superior quality at this festival. It helped us learn lessons,“ he said, adding that the festival will overcome all deficiencies next year with changes in the manual.
 
 Though the sudden spurt of tension for a day following the murder of a   worker caused anxiety, public participation over the past three days was immense. The venues for less-popular items like Chakyarkoothu, Nangiarkoothu and Ottamthullal had a reasonably good crowd.However, interestingly, it did not affect the vehicular traffic in town thanks to effective traffic control.
 
 At the same time, there were complaints about the sound system at many stages. This was true for venues where the light music and poetry recital were held.
 
 Despite the shortcomings, it is not a minor achievement that the festival concluded smoothly despite political tensions or waste dumping. Immediately after the festival,   workers started the work of cleaning the venues thus setting a model in waste management.
 
