KANPUR: Since its inception, T20 international cricket has seen more records set and surpassed than in the two longer formats. In its 10th year since the first  , the format has started to gain in significance. Perhaps, that's why one sees more three-match T20I bilateral series, like the one which starts on Thursday between India and England, than just the one-off game at the end of a tour.

 `Series of opportunity', `vision' and `breakthrough series'. These were the words   chose to harp on, on the eve of the first T20I.He made it clear that the relevance of this series was beyond the eventual result. The series against England surely gives him the opportunity to build on his dominating record as a Test captain by ensuring consistency in performances by his limited-overs teams.
 
 People's careers have taken drastic turns based on T20 performances and the old warhorses have been the biggest beneficiaries. So, you saw Ashish Nehra sending down yorker after yorker at full throttle at the nets on Wednesday. Also a sedate Suresh Raina putting his head down and working on his straight, clean hitting. As you turned towards the other net, you found Amit Mishra spearing in yorkers with an offspinner's release.
 
 “We definitely want to play more expressive cricket, play more positively than in the past and not worry about the result much,“ captain Kohli reiterated on the brand of cricket he wants his team to play .
 
 For England, this presents an opportunity to prove that the fluent World T20 campaign in India last year was not an aberration. “We had a rather inexperienced side during the World T20 campaign but we made it to the final. This is a chance for us to take that one step forward,“ Morgan stated, not shying away from the importance of the impending IPL auctions soon after the series, a clear departure from the English mindset prior to the 2015 World Cup .
 
 Kohli soon brought up the word `vision'. The vision to find the right mix to form the core of his team and to groom the next generation.
 
 “The squad has been selected like that. We've got in quite a few youngsters now whom we want to groom with the senior guys in the team, and who can graduate to 50-overs cricket and then to Tests.“
 
 He elaborated: “The vision has to be that, you have to understand that even me or anyone can't play forever, so you need to understand who are the guys who are going to slowly blend in and take Indian cricket forward.“ You can see this statement either way -a cautious warning for the likes of Raina, Yuvraj and Nehra or a pat of confidence for the young Rishabh Pant, Mandeep Singh and Manish Pandey .
 
 Deep in his heart, Kohli hopes this turns out to be a `breakthrough series' where those he has backed live up to the expectations. So, it did not come as a surprise when MS Dhoni made a mark with his bat outside the off-stump and asked Jasprit Bumrah to bowl wide yorkers so that he could practice guiding them past point in the hope he discovers another way to finish off games -a cushion Kohli loves.
 
 Kohli has specially pinned his hopes on the two new spinners, Yuzvendra Chahal and Parvez Rasool, to make up for the lack of control Ravichandran Ashwin has provided with the white ball.
 
 “These two guys are smart and they have played under me. They know how to create pressure and bowl to get you wickets. This is a breakthrough series for both them.This might be the perfect opportunity for them to seal their spots as T20 specialist spinners.“
 
 In essence, Kohli touched upon roadmap he intends to draw for his team. “At the end of the day it's up to the individual -how well prepared he is or how eagerly he is waiting for the opportunity . From the management and the selectors' point of view, they can only do so much in showing faith and getting a guy into the squad and it's up to the individual. I hope he finds his groove.“
 
 The brief is out in the open. A flat track and small boundaries to start the proceedings could be the apt and fairest way to begin the game of opportunities.
 
 
