BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh ATS on Wednesday handed over the case diary of Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train blast and all other relevant documents to the National Investigating Agency (NIA) for further investigations.

 The case was transferred to the federal agency by Union government considering its international ramification. UPATS has also handed over the case diary to NIA 
 
 “We have handed over the documents related to the ISIS module to the NIA as directed by Union home minister Rajnath Singh,” IG UP ATS Aseem Arun told media. Custody of the accused will be handed to the NIA, and if required they could seek further remand from the court, he said.
 
 According to the UPATS, Saifullah, who was killed in an encounter on March 8, was suspected to be linked with the blast in the Bhopal-Ujjain train in MP and belonged to a self-proclaimed group of ISIS supporters.
 
 Saifullah, suspected to be a member of this self-radicalised group, was killed on the outskirts of Lucknow after a 12-hour police operation. UPATS claimed to have recovered eight pistols, 630 live cartridges, Rs 1.5 lakh, three mobiles phone, four sim cards, two wireless sets and some foreign currency from the place where Saifullah lived.
 
 They had zeroed in on Saifullah following inputs from Atif Muzaffar, the self-motivated ‘jihadist’ behind Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train blast, and two members of his module. They were arrested within four hours of the blast. 
 
 This module had conducted a recce of Kerala and Rajasthan to carry out serial terror strikes, said police officials who interrogated him. They visited Jaipur in Rajasthan and Kozhikode in Kerala in the past two months to identify spots where they can strike and also plan a safe escape after executing the job.
 
 However, interrogators have not been able to ascertain this module’s specific motive behind ‘waging war against the country’.
 
 Initially, some police officers suspected that they wanted to avenge the encounter of the alleged SIMI activists after their escape from Bhopal Jail on October 31 last year. 
 
