HYDERABAD: Barely days after release of the trailer of  , the film's protagonist seems to have made his way into the Legislative Assembly lobbies. And anyone hanging around in the lobbies over past couple of days could well be forgiven — considering the frequency with which legislators have been talking about Bahubali - that   had information about just why Kattappa killed Bahubali.

 It all began with leader of the Opposition and senior Congress party legislator K Jana Reddy saying TRS party would be slayed by a Bahubali in the Congress in the  . 
 
 This was not announced with Bahubali or Bhallala Deva's swagger from the movie. Nor was the revelation delivered in a tone of thunder that sends movie fans into raptures, but would have shaken the venerable Assembly building. It was a little chat with a small group of reporters in the lobby when Jana Reddy predicted the coming of Bahubali to rescue Congress in the next elections in Telangana. 
 
 But that, apparently was more than enough for the movie character to take centre-stage as MLAs walking in and out of the House stopped for a quick chat with reporters. On Saturday, Congress MLA D K Aruna joined in the discussions and then sought to deliver a blow that sought to rival those dispensed with ease by Bhallala Deva in the movie with his mace.
 
 KCR, she said, is like Kattappa who stabbed people of the state in their back, but that Bahubali 1. "Now it is time for Bahubali-2 and one of us will become Bahubali to defeat KCR. This is what   said on Friday," she said.
 
 Incidentally, Jana Reddy's fellow partyman and MLA from Nalgonda district, Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, also weighed in on the matter. Just in the event that anyone in particular felt they could morph into the lean, muscular and swashbuckling Bahubali in the party,   sought to set the record straight. There are several Bahubalis in the party, he said. And added for good measure: "It appears CLP leader Jana Reddy has caught the Bahubali fever."
 
 And it did not take long for G Jagadishwar Reddy, the TRS MLA and energy minister, also from Nalgonda district to add his bit to the Bahubali story that was being scripted by Congress MLAs. "Looks like, Congress leaders have finally realised they have none in their ranks who can face KCR or take him on. All this talk just goes to show that Congress has come to terms with the fact that none of their leaders is capable," he said.
 
 KCR is like Kattappa who stabbed people of the state in their back, but that was Bahubali 1. Now it is time for Bahubali-2 and one of us will become Bahubali to defeat KCR. This is what Jana Reddy garu said
 
 KCR is like Kattappa who stabbed people of the state in their back, but that was Bahubali 1. Now it is time for Bahubali-2 and one of us will become Bahubali to defeat KCR. This is what Jana Reddy garu said
 
 
