AHMEDABAD: After depositing the   Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes in banks, many assumed that the notes would be gone forever. In fact, the notes have been put to sustainable use in several forms:  ,  ,   such as bricks and boards, furniture, and woodless pencils. The ideas were developed by students from design institutes across the country as part of the competition titled 'Value for Money'. The competition was organized at the National Institute of Design (NID) Ahmedabad, by Royal Dutch Kusters Engineering (RDKE), a global manufacturer and supplier of currency disintegration systems. 

 Five students from the city's design institutes - NID and Unitedworld Institute of Design (UID) - won the competition. Sayee Pathak, a student of NID, created construction materials such as bricks, tiles, and outdoor furniture by mixing demonetized currency notes with concrete. The first and second runners-up were Urvi Bansal from UID and Mayur Bhalavi from NID.
 
 "We were to announce only three prizes," said Sylvia Laurensse, strategic innovation manager, RDKE. "However, we were so impressed with the idea of creating a pencil with currency waste that we decided to announce a fourth prize."
 
 The Top 4 winners were given cash prizes: Rs 1 lakh, Rs 75,000, Rs 50,000, and Rs 25,000 respectively. Ideas and prototypes will be refined to help push the products into mass market. "We will fund these ideas, build more research, attempt to get patents, and later industrialize them into mass market products," Laurensse said.
 
 "In fact, countries such as China and South Africa have shown interest in the outcome of the competition as the generation of currency waste is a global issue," said Paul Kusters, managing director, RDKE. An enormous amount of demonetized currency waste - some 115 tonnes per day - is generated across the country. Earlier, currency waste was either dumped into landfill sites or used in furnaces because of the high calorific value of paper. NID director Pradhyumna Vyas said, "The event involves upcycling currency waste and thus gives out the message of sustainability." 
 
 
