MADIKERI:   with its attendant problems but when they flock to Kodagu, the rain is an added attraction. Tourist inflow has gone up in the rainy months which were once considered off-season.As many as 91,619 visitors came to Kodagu in July, a jump over the figures for 2016.

 Between January and July this year, 6.9 lakh people visited Kodagu, of whom 91,619 people visited in July. This is a jump of 21% over last year, when just 75,492 tourists came. In 2015, only 74,798 tourists visited in the month of July. But even these are conservative numbers, say officials, since it only accounts for guests at registered homestays. The number could be almost double if the other homestays, not on paper, are factored in as well.
 
 What helped probably was that the rain wasn't as heavy as expected. The district as a whole received 51cm of rain in the month against a normal of 90cm, allowing tourists to enjoy the showers while finding time to move around as well. The tourist count estimate for this August had crossed 50,000 by the middle of the month.
 
 While most tourists visit the staples in Kodagu -Talacauvery,  , the Nalaknad palace in Kakkabe and Raja's Seat ­ some also make their way to Irupu falls near Shrimangala, Mallalli falls off Somwarpet, Abbey falls near Madikeri, the golden temple at Kushalnagar,  , Ha rangi and Mandalapatti near Madikeri.
 
 Shobha Shetty , a retired bank employee from Mangaluru, says she had a magical experience visiting Talacauvery in the morning hours. “The mist-covered slopes, the moving fog and the gathering dark in daylight made me forget everything else. This can happen only during monsoon,“ she says. Around 45,616 tourists visited Talacauvery between January and May this year.
 
 Shashi Monnappa, who runs Mythili homestay at Madikeri, said many tourists preferred to visit during monsoon and opted to go to waterfalls, for river rafting and on safari in Nagarahole.
 
 Boosting the tourist inflow, homestays drop rates during the rainy off-season. Coravanda Madan Somanna, who runs a homestay in BB estate at Kadagadal near Madikeri, said the discounts ranged between 25% and 30% on the room tariff.
 
 Kushalnagar assistant conservator of forests Chinnappa said an average of 3 lakh tourists visit the Dubare elephant camp every year.And around two lakh tourists visit Irupu falls in south Kodagu every year, says Kodagu DFO Jaya.
 
 Given the surge, the tourism department has taken up some development projects. It is building a Kodava heritage centre at Madikeri at a cost of Rs 2.6 crore, a pathway for tourists at Mallalli falls at Rs 1.4 crore and providing a chain barricade at Abbey falls for Rs 86 lakh.
 
 The district administration has sent proposals for another 12 projects which include road development in Mandalapatti, Talacauvery and Dubare; building a hanging bridge to Irupu falls and setting up a garden at the  . It has also proposed building a concrete road from Nanjarayapatna to Dubare to reach the elephant camp. These proposed projects will need nearly Rs 17 crore from the government.
 
