BENGALURU: E-commerce major   is learnt to have racked up $1 billion in its latest financing round, bringing on board investors like American online auction site  , Chinese internet giant Tencent and  , multiple people in the know told TOI. 

 The latest fund-raise values the Bengaluru-based firm at $11 billion post the investment, these people said. 
 
 Flipkart's much-anticipated and widely discussed fund-raise, when announced, would come after a slew of valuation markdowns by existing investors in the backdrop of Jeff Bezos-led Amazon snapping at its heels with a gargantuan war chest. 
 
 The Indian e-tailer was valued at $15.2 billion when it last raised capital from existing investors in July 2015. 
 
 When completed, the raise will be the largest capital infusion for an Indian internet startup after Flipkart mopped up $1 billion in July of 2014.
 
 Flipkart's been on a fund-raising trail since last year when it held talks with strategic players like Alibaba and Walmart. However, those discussions did not conclude in a deal.
 
 A spokesperson for the San Jose-based eBay said that the company does not comment on rumour or speculation. Microsoft and Tencent did not respond to queries sent by TOI. 
 
  A spokesperson of Flipkart said, "As a company policy, we do not comment on market speculations." 
 
 A source who did not want to be named said, "There's been talk of eBay India folding up into Flipkart post the investment. However, the contours of the deal are yet to be detailed."
 
 Kalyan Krishnamurthy, an ex-Tiger Global MD who took over the reins of the company in June last year, is an ex-eBay executive. 
 
 Flipkart started stabilising its performance under Krishnamurthy as its sales pipped Amazon's during the Diwali season last year, generating interest from a new set of investors after talks failed with Walmart.
 
 New York-based Tiger Global is the largest investor in Flipkart, having pumped in $1 billion. 
 
 Sources said an announcement of Flipkart's funding is likely to come soon.
 
 The web retailer's shipments and gross merchandise value, or GMV, has also gone up marginally over the past six months. 
 
 Sources said, along with Myntra and Jabong, the Flipkart group clocked $4 billion in annual GMV run rate compared to $3 billion by Amazon. 
 
 Online marketplaces earn anywhere between 5% and 15% - depending on a category - as commission from sellers.
 
 Under Krishnamurthy, Flipkart has gone back to shoring up its smartphone sales once again, which is helping it gain momentum in monthly gross sales.
 
  "The likes of Motorola have made a comeback to Flipkart due to the sheer volumes it gets from the platform compared to what these brands got on Amazon," said a person directly aware of the developments.
 
  Flipkart inched up its share of mobile phones sold online to 51% in October-December last year, compared to Amazon which registered a 33% market share, according to Counterpoint Technology Market Research. 
 
