MADURAI: For the bird enthusiasts of Madurai, this year has been more eventful and perhaps one of the best with hundreds of   flocking to some of the water bodies in the district. Apart from the regular ones, some maiden visitors have also flown in catching the fancy of the bird watchers. However, poachers and feral dogs have been preying on these   wonders.

 During winter months, thousands of birds flock to the huge water bodies of Tirunelveli and Tuticorin fed by Tamirabarani river. As both monsoons failed this year, the water bodies in these districts have gone dry and the bird population has been very thin. Meanwhile, birds looking for nesting areas have settled in water bodies like Perungudi tank, Avaniapuram tank and Samanatham tank. 
 
 The birding season starts by November and ends around February. This year somehow the birds have been lingering till March-end. “We have recorded 253 bird species in Madurai district. Every winter, Madurai gets to see migratory birds but their number has been very high this year”, said A L Elanchezhian of OSAI, an environmental organisation. 
 
 Besides the regulars, Madurai has seen first-time visitors too. For instance the Bar-headed goose, a migratory bird from Central Asia, has been spotted in Madurai for the first time. Another first-time visitor is Pied Harrier, a bird of prey from Eastern Russia. There are also a lot of migratory birds like Northern Shovelers and Northern Pintail in addition to a good number of Flamingoes flying in from Rann of Kutch. 
 
 However,   has become a serious concern in these few water bodies that the birds are nesting. During one of the recent trips to take pictures, TOI photographer found two poachers loitering around the water body. They had traps and catapult with them. When quizzed, they quickly vacated the spot. The photographer also found a purple moorhen struggling with a noose around its leg though it managed to get rid of the trap. 
 
 The birds, especially migratory ones, once threatened in their habitat may not come back the next season. “Birds are very sensitive and their presence indicates healthy environment. They may not visit the water bodies if threatened. Apart from poaching, feral dogs around water bodies are another concern as they hunt the young ones”, Elanchezhian said. 
 
 Concerned with the safety of birds, the bird enthusiasts have decided to take it up with forest department. “Poaching is a serious concern to birds. We are going to request forest department to increase the surveillance”, said Kumaresan Chandrabose, a student and avid bird watcher. 
 
 Winged visitors 
 
 Bird watchers have documented 253 species this season | Seventy of them are migratory birds from Central Asia and Siberia
 
 Prominent ones are Indian Spotbill Duck, Purple Moorhen, Wood Sandpiper, Grey-headed swamp-hen, White-breasted waterhen, Northern Shovelers, Black-winged stilt
 
 Bar-headed goose & Pied Harrier spotted for the first time other than flamingoes from Rann of Kutch which usually visit Ramanathapuram, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari 
 
 Poaching and feral dogs loitering around water bodies a big concern
 
 
