Hyderabad: The Demonetisation move by the Union government has certainly “sent shivers down the spines of some” but at the same time has impacted the economic growth momentum of the country in the short-term, former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor C Rangarajan said on Friday here. He was of the view that the lack of preparedness among the authorities was one of the major factors responsible for the controversy that followed demonetisation. “The immediate pain is real and tangible and sooner the phase comes to an end, the better for the economy. In short, much of the controversy over demonetisation could have been avoided, had the authorities been better prepared. It is the inadequate supply of new currency to replace the old that has caused much of the storm,” Rangarajan said while delivering the inaugural address at the 32nd conference of the All India Reserve Bank Employee Association (AIRBEA) here. 

 While in the short-term, demonetisation has caused a lot of pain, especially for the informal sector, the long-term gains such as reduction of cash transactions, widening of tax base and reforms in the real estate sector, will hinge on what new actions the government takes, he added. The former RBI chief said that demonetisation cannot be a standalone tool to tackle the menace of black money. Factors such as transparency in governance, revised tax structure, improved tax administration, electoral reforms and changes in the funding of political parties will be crucial in the coming days.
 
 Speaking on the evolving role of the RBI, Rangarajan said that the financial system is on the threshold of a “quantum jump”. “NBFCs will grow and the RBI will have to find a suitable system to regulate them. Regulation may have also to be decentralised. Bank accounts will increase enormously with direct bank transfer in the case of various subsidy schemes. The launching of various digital payments and transfer systems will also expand the links with banks. Thus there will be a qualitative as well as quantitative change in the financial system and the tasks of RBI will rise manifold,” he explained.
 
 Meanwhile, AIRBEA general secretary Samir Ghosh also pointed out that the role of RBI is changing dynamically but it is important to ensure that the “autonomy” of the institution is preserved. He pointed out the case of monetary policy, wherein a committee now decides on the monetary policy as opposed to the RBI governor, who earlier used to be the sole arbiter. On demonetisation, Ghosh pointed out that the way the exercise was carried out, it has certainly dented the image of the RBI in the country. He pointed out that the way things unfolded post demonetization, it appeared as if the apex bank was not taken into confidence by the government with regard to the “implications” of the move.
 
 
