NEW DELHI: A day after emerging as the top buy in the auctions of Pro Kabaddi Season Five, raider   is still struggling to come to terms with the exceptional turn of events.   was bought by Team Uttar Pradesh for a whopping 93 lakh, creating ripples during proceedings which saw Telugu Titans and UP locked in intense bidding for the youngster.

 "I really don't know what to say. It's been a little over 16 hours since the development, and I am truly overwhelmed," Nitin told TOI on Tuesday afternoon. The 22-year-old, hailing from Baghpat in UP is employed with the   and is posted as a petty officer in Mumbai. Most boys from Malikpur, the village Nitin belongs to, drift towards wrestling as a rite of passage.
 
 But, Nitin was different in the sense that he opted for kabaddi over wrestling which was pursued by two of his uncles. "It's difficult to explain why I chose kabaddi. But yes, one of the main reasons for it is that I was good at it in school, and my interest grew over the years," he conceded.
 
 So, what does he make of the entire auction process that unfolded over two days in the Capital? "Well, one thing is certain. Kabaddi is growing rapidly, and I am thankful to the fans, who enjoy our performances. If it was not for them, and of course all the effort undertaken by the promoters and the federation, kabaddi would not have gained so much popularity, especially on television," he reckoned.
 
 Is he surprised with the kind of money that teams splurged on players whom they wanted as part of their line-up, considering the fact that even until about five years ago, not too many people were interested in investing in it?
 "Honestly, I am surprised by the amount we have earned at the auctions. But that also shows how kabaddi has progressed. If we play well, fans will certainly respond positively and that's what you are seeing," said Nitin, who earlier represented   and Puneri Paltan in the  .
 
 What are the challenges that he foresees for himself and the team, now that he will attract a significant amount of attention from different quarters. "All that I know is the team has shown faith in me because they feel I can achieve something. So, I will always try to improve my game and take maximum responsibility so that we can do well in the coming league."
 
 UP have some top-class players in their ranks, including Rajesh Narwal, Jeeva Kumar and  , and Nitin is happy with the squad that they have lined up. "It's going to be a really long and tough season (spread over three months). That's why we need to have a balanced team. I think we have managed. With Rajesh, Jeeva and Rishank around, we have experience and I am sure the younger players who are selected will gain a lot from their presence."
 
 Explaining why UP went all out for Nitin, Hemant Dua, representing the owners GMR Group said: "We were very clear why we wanted Nitin. We wanted the star player from the team to hail from UP and he is as good a player that you can get," he said. "That's why we even let the opportunity of availing the priority pick pass. If we had picked him then, we would not have been in a position to bid so much for him during the auction as we needed to take care about how we were going to spend on other players."
 
