AURANGABAD: Close on the heels of a dismal performance in the nation-wide cleanliness survey, the civic body is all set to launch a new concept of   treatment at its over utilised   dumping yard. 

 From Saturday, the authorities will start developing windrow composting on the spot that is expected to scientifically treat the garbage and control dust and foul smell emanating from the haphazardly dumped garbage. 
 
 Windrows are created to allow composting of waste by laying it in rows of long piles and aerating them by turning the pile periodically.
 
 The initiative will be launched under the guidance of an expert visiting the city under the   Bharat Mission. The authorities will arrange huge garbage in in rows on which they will sprinkle water and chemical to let it decompose at a rapid pace. 
 
 "With the new technique in place, we will be able to control pollution in the surrounding areas. Besides generating less dust and smell, we will also be able to control fire incidents in the yard," said Vikram  , assistant municipal commissioner. 
 
 Apart from this, the municipal authorities also appeared to have geared up to improve solid waste management system here in the city. The authorities have planned to create awareness, focus on segregation of dry and wet garbage and developing garbage processing units. 
 
 "We are already segregating dry and wet garbage in nearly half of the city while the remaining half of the area will be covered under it in the next three months. Same is the situation with door-to-door garbage collection," Mandurke said. 
 
 The over-utilised Naregaon yard has been a big concern for the civic authorities. There is no space left for further dumping of garbage, but in the absence of an alternate space, the authorities are dumping about 150 to 160 truckloads of garbage every day. On an average, the civic body is dumping over 450 metric tonne of garbage every day.
 
 "However, Mandurke said that the quantity of garbage has come down in the last few months. Since we are recycling the city's garbage at various other spots, about 370 metric tonne of garbage is arriving at Naregaon," he said.
 
