For Fujitha Thanapandi, born in Isehara in Japan, coming to Chennai is a dream come true. After completing her schooling from Nihon University 
Third High School in Tokyo, she decided to head to Chennai to pursue higher studies. Ask her what made her to come all the way from Japan to study here, and she says, 
 “I wanted to come to Tamil Nadu in search of my roots. I was going through an identity crisis.”
 Probe her a bit, and she says, “My schooling days were so full of fun. I was part of the football club and I had practice every day. I used to hang out with my friends and go for coffee. But I always used to feel a bit out of place. While my looks were Indian, my way of thinking and characteristics were more like the Japanese and that way, I felt I am Japanese inside. I also used to speak Japanese more than Tamil.”
 Fujitha’s parents, Thanapandi Periasamy and Chitra Malini, are from Madurai and they are software programmers, settled in Tokyo. She has an elder brother, who is also working as a programmer in Japan.
 Fujitha continues, “I am born and brought up in Japan, but I have always longed to know my identity. After completing my higher studies, I wanted to know more about my home country and decided to study in India. Though reluctant initially, my family supported my decision and my father's friend helped me to find a college — Shasun Jain College — for me to continue my education.” Currently, she is studying BSc Visual Communication, second year.
 About her experience of studying here, she says, “Chennai is a good place to study as the people around help to make it possible. I think Japan is more technologically advanced and the teaching is more practical-based. Here, I see a lot of importance being given to theory and I wish it improves so that there’s a deep understanding of the subjects we study.”
 However, she says she is very happy in the campus and with friends. “Initially, I found it tough to mingle with classmates, but they helped me learn Tamil. Now, I can speak much better. I have a lot of friends in the college now and they always help me. They also teach me Tamil and Indian culture.”
 Though she finds the climate a bit harsh on her, she says, “People here are more kind and very helping in nature. But the city is always hot and it feels as if we have only summer here.”
 Fujitha has been staying with her grandmother in the city and she says that though she misses her parents a lot, her grandmom has been very sweet, helping her to understand the culture and the family values.
 Ask her what her favourite Indian dish is, and she is all smiles, “I like   very much and my grandma makes it often. The food here is spicy and the rice very dry, whereas I am used to eating sticky rice in Japan.”
 Her pastime is visiting the street shops in   and she says she loves the experience. “Those shops remind me of Japan; and I love street shopping.”
 So, after spending more than a year in Chennai, does she feel she belongs here? “I have realised that I can never be 100% Indian or Japanese. I would say that I am an Indian who knows a lot about Japan and their culture. I think I’m a global person and want to explore the world.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
