HYDERABAD: The   ( ) under prof   miserably failed to protect freedom of dissent on campus, according to a report released by an independent fact-finding team. The report, released on Monday, blamed the administration for succumbing to pressure from the Centre, which led to the death of Dalit research scholar  . 

 The team of research scientists comprising Suvrat Raju, Prajval Shastri and Ravinder Banyal visited the university in July last year and spoke to various students, faculty and the university administration members from both sides of the divided campus.
 
 The team found that university failed to take several measures to protect academic freedom and civil rights of students and faculty members. The report said that when student members of the Ambedkar Students’ Association (ASA) launched a protest against the administration in early January 2016 and set up a ‘velivada‘ -- where Rohith spent his last days -- the university did not treat them with appropriate sensitivity. 
 
 The report also came down harshly on police brutality against protesters following Podile‘s re-assumption of charge as VC in March 2016. “We were particularly shocked by the description of police violence in this incident. Earlier in the morning, there was some tension and the VC’s house was allegedly vandalised by some students. But this was no justification for the ferocity with which the police attacked the students several hours later when the situation had calmed down substantially,” said the report. 
 
 The team of scientists also stated that Union minister of labour and employment Bandaru Dattatreya’s intervention into university matters had ‘no merit’. “The government was intervening politically in favour of the ABVP, and against progressive politics on the university campus… the BJP has misused its powers at the Centre to aggressively intervene and promote its youth organisations and suppress competing political student organizations,” said the report. 
 
 While the university has taken implement reservation norms on campus, scientists found that discrimination, in more subtle forms, continues on campus. “The university does not have adequate mechanisms to sensitise its students and faculty about discrimination. There is no statutory committee that students can approach, if they suffer from caste-discrimination. In contrast other forms of harassment such as ragging tend to be taken more seriously,” said the report. 
 
 
