Scriptwriter and actor   is known for his intense screenplays and powerful portrayals; and this year he will be delivering double the dose. He’s associated with two of Mollywood’s most-anticipated projects this year —Tiyaan and  . While the former, which is directed by Jiyen Krishnakumar, has   and   in the lead, the Rathish Ambat directorial has   and   as the protagonists.

  For both the films, Murali has donned multiple hats — as an actor, scriptwriter and singer. We caught up with Murali, who is now all geared up to start the next schedule of Kammarasambhavam.
 
 
 
 Right now there are no borders as far as cinema is concerned. Both the films have a pan Indian appeal. It’s more so in case of Tiyaan. Now, people are aware of what’s happening in other States and film industries because they are spreading their wings to Malayalam and I think it’s high time we also venture out. That being said, I don’t write scripts intending that they should have a national appeal. It just so happened that these films had such content and they ought to be shot in a wider canvas.
 
 
 Yes. The movies will be reflective of our times. Though contemporary, the stories will also have resonance with history. Tiyaan is set and shot entirely outside Kerala. Yet it’s about how a Malayali and his mindset figures in the socio-political scenario of India. It will have a few time periods that are used as references but the story is set and evolves in the current timeline. Similarly, I like to believe that Kammarasambhavam also has a universal appeal.
 
 
 We have a lot of alternative worlds, puranas etc which make Indian concept of reality very different from what the West perceives. I don’t think that is explored in its entirety. The reality of a person who speaks on Vedanta is different from a politician or a scientist. So, there are a lot of thought channels that encompass the Indian reality. For some people their previous life is part of their basic reality. If you go to a rationalist, he would outrightly deny something like reincarnation exists as it is not part of his reality. He believes only what he sees with his naked eye. Tiyaan makes a sincere attempt in discussing these elements, these different planes of realities.
 
 
 I identify with mainstream entertainers. I am not interested in making a movie that doesn’t entertain the viewers. Both Tiyaan and Kammarasambhavam will have an enjoyable resonance to the Indian diaspora. If you can present any concept in an entertaining manner, audience wouldn’t mind viewing the movie again. I don’t want to compromise entertainment to put forth an idea, especially in a movie. For the audience, entertainment is paramount and that’s what I have tried in all my scripts. At the end of the day, even the epics are entertainment.
 
 
 Right now, we have to express our opinions in the most balanced way, after careful thought. We have to be responsible for every word we utter. There’s a lot of noise happening in the social media. I have always believed that a writer’s platform is his paper and his films. I also think a creative artiste should take a political stand but not be affiliated to any political party. Because the moment he starts identifying with a political party, he would be expected to defend all sorts of stupidity that his political affiliates would be doing. That will create a dent in his work and it would implode sooner or later. Electoral politics is an opportunistic cesspool and the real politics of India is actually beyond the electorate. So, I think it’s suicidal for an artiste to choose a side. It’s better to have a balanced opinion because no one is completely right or wrong.
 
 
 I think many critics now have an agenda. Be it social media, websites or even newspapers, you could decipher from the headline how each outlet chooses to report a particular news. Their slant is now becoming unprecedentedly clear as well. Even in criticism and reviewing, there’s an agenda and I think artistes should speak responsibly now more than ever. We must identify such people and reject them altogether. We must cultivate a culture that views movies without any bias. I think only a few people watch films based on its pure merit. In Kerala especially, groupism exists where particular sections of people promote the movies of their favourite persons. I am not saying there aren’t discerning viewers here but they are less in number. That has become an impediment.
 
 I also strongly believe that if a movie is good, it is made with the right intention and has no hidden agenda, then it will be accepted; if not when released, a few years later. The biggest example is Left Right Left. When it released, it had to face a lot of hurdles but now it’s a cult film for many. Even though people with vested interests try to suppress a film, it will outgrow those intentions. That’s the hope for every artiste.
 
 
 The entire filmmaking process has been a collaborative one. Tiyaan had a very specific and detailed screenplay before we started shooting. There’s that comfort when you are working with people who have the same vibe. I have that with both Indran and Raju. Both of them identify with the way I write, so the communication is easy. I also rely a lot on my actors and technicians to understand the screenplay. If they are aware why something is written in a particular way, the rest becomes easy.
 
 
 I haven’t had the problem of actors interfering with my scripts at all. I welcome good improvisations. I write the dialogues from an actor’s point of view, so I want them to identify with the rhythm of the character and the pacing of the dialogues. I brief them about these facets even it’s for a small role. Fortunately, the actors that I have worked with have picked them really well. Tiyaan is also a character-driven screenplay so the actors are pivotal in the scheme of things.
 
 
 I have always thought Dileep is an actor who has several dimensions. If you look at his filmography, I don’t think there are many movies that have explored the different facets of the actor in him. I believe only 50% of his gift has been explored yet and that too in one particular genre — humour. Kammarasambhavam wouldn’t be a typical Dileep movie but it will showcase his potential as an actor. We have finished two schedules and he’s done a fantastic job till now.
 
 
 Raju had told me a year ago that he would like to direct one of my scripts. He’s someone who keenly follows my scripts and understands the nuances in them very well. During the shoot of Tiyaan, I bounced an idea off of him. He liked it and wanted to direct it.
 
 
 He’s the biggest superstar ever from the Malayalam film industry. So, to get to work with him is a dream come true. While being a feast for his fans, we also want Lucifer to be a quality film. His star status now is larger than the characters he plays. So it becomes difficult for the writers to come up with a suitable character that would appeal to the star as well as the actor in him. That’s what we are trying to accomplish with Lucifer. It’s like hosting an emperor in your home and you have to be prepared for that — creatively and emotionally. Another challenge is satiating his massive fan base without compromising on content. The plan right now is to start shooting the movie by May 2018, that’s when Raju will be free and I will also be done with my projects.
 
 
 I will be acting in Kamal sir’s Aami, Sanal Kumar Sasidharan’s next and also Arun Kumar Aravind’s film. I will start shooting for Arun’s movie first. It’s set in a rustic milieu and I play a character named Chellappan. I had worked with its scriptwriter Ananthapadmanabhan for his directorial, August Club, and he’s a long-time friend. It’s an intense screenplay and I am eagerly looking forward to the making of the film. Apart from that, I have been listening to a lot of scripts lately. I will also be recording songs in Tiyaan and Kammarasambhavam.
 
