When not producing tunes or getting his vocal ranges right, Marti Bharath (producer-vocalist) is looking after his Chennai-based band Sapta’s bookings and logistics while his partner   (producer-drummer) is managing their finances. This duo is just one of the many two-member bands in the country. BT takes a look at the dynamics of such partnerships and their limitations among other things. 

 
 
 From being multi-instrumentalists to managing behind-the-scene action, it’s a mad riot. After all, it’s not so easy for such bands to juggle singing, composing, producing and performing all at once.   (guitarist, vocalist) of the Shillong-based blues band, Soulmate, says, “Tipriti Kharbangar (rhythm guitarist, vocalist) and I are the core members and both of us pen down lyrics for our songs. Our common interests add to our works. But we are cautious; as you may have heard: Too many cooks spoil the broth.” 
 There are several good things about being a two-member band. Arsh Sharma of Delhi-based indie band FuzzCulture emphasises on the ability to adjust to adverse live situations. “It’s easier to play and travel. Dealing with a lesser number of egos is also a great factor,” he says. Adding to this, Marti Bharath, says, “When travelling for gigs, it’s easier to find accommodation. We end up learning a lot from each other and there’s great chemistry.”
 
 
 
 When compared to a larger band, what are the limitations a two-member band faces? For starters, due to their structured method, there is limited scope for live improvisation.  , vocalist and composer of Shadow and Light, says, “There’s no scope to change our song structures, since they have some musical layers pre-programmed for a live set-up.” Also, given that there’s no third person involved to resolve matters, the possibility of salvaging a situation remains uncertain.   of Madboy/Mink, a Funk-Nu Disco pair, says, “There are certain areas where you can talk in shorthand and know you’ll be understood. At other times, greater thought and care needs to be applied in ensuring you aren’t misunderstood. Disagreements between Saba (Azad) and me are violent at times!”
 
 
 
 While most don’t wish to have other permanent band members, collaboration is the king, they believe.   of the world music band  , which collaborates with various global artistes across the world, emphasises on the importance of joining forces, musically. She says, “At the heart of it, Kartik (Shah; also her better half) and I are the constants and keep interchanging our roles. But we always perform with other artistes. The essence of our band is to retain individualities while ensuring that the compositions are seamless.”  , of the folktronica band Hari & Sukhmani, says, “Collaboration is the key to grow. When you feed off other artistes’ energy, learn something from them, it brings uniqueness to your tracks.”
 
