 frequented his mother's flat at   in Old Panvel as   and claimed he had taken it on rent.

 “Only when Hussein Patel was arrested in Pakistan in March 2016, we learnt through the media that his real name was 
  and that he was actually the son of flat owner Avanti Jadhav . As per our society records, Avanti Jadhav had purchased flat C-11 in 1991, but never stayed there. In 2007, Patel came to stay on rent.When he sought a residence proof certificate from the society for a passport, we asked him to obtain the flat owner's permission. Patel immediately contacted Avanti Jadhav who sent a facsimile at an automobile showroom near our building. The letter stated her NOC and hence the society issued him the residence address proof,“ said society secretary Sachin Shinde.
 
 He said Patel had claimed that he worked for a cargo shipping company. He visited the Panvel flat two-three times a month with a backpack and left in 15-20 minutes. “Once the door was left ajar and I saw a swimming suit and yacht equipment. One fine day, he loaded all the goods in a tempo and left the flat and never returned.“
 
 M J Gade, who has an office next to  , confirmed he never stayed in the flat. It seemed he used it as a godown, he added.
 
 On Monday, the security guard at Silver Oak building in Powai, where Jadhav's father and his family stay, claimed the flats are locked and they were not in the city. As a precaution, the police deployed around half a dozen constables outside the premises.
 
 CM Devendra Fadnavis 
  and described it as an attempt to divert attention from its domestic failures. Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, in Delhi to attend an NDA event, urged 
  to take “extreme steps“ to save Jadhav .
 
 NDA authorities neither confirmed nor denied Jadhav's stint. “Jadhav was two courses senior to me. He was famous for his fitness. He was active in sports and was a good performer," said a navy officer. “He was at INS Shivaji (Lonavla) between 1991-93. Later, Jadhav opted for Marine Commando Force. Consequently, Jadhav had joined the commando training centre at Kochi and completed the training,“ the officer added.
 
 High Point CHS secretary Shinde recalled that Patel was friendly and never defaulted on payments. Patel used to pay maintenance charges by cheque. Later (after his arrest, it now transpires), Avanti cleared all outstanding till March 2017. “Flat owner Avanti Jadhav had called me on my mobile from a landline number of Virar to confirm whether the society office had received her maintenance cheque for the flat. At that time she had cried about her son's arrest in Pakistan and expressed fears that her son will be killed in Pakistan,“ Shinde added.
 
 In Lower Parel, Tulsidas Pawar, a childhood friend of Jadhav, was shocked to hear the news from Pakistan. “We friends are in deep shock that our childhood friend who used to play with us is in deep trouble. He stayed near N M   here during his school days. We met even when he was in college. He was very hardworking and happy when he joined the navy . He told friends that after quitting the navy , he would start a business. He was in business and I don't believe that he joined RAW ,“ said Pawar.
 
 
 
