Madurai: Government vehicles — buses and battery cars — will soon ply instead of private vehicles on the newly-laid road through the abandoned town of Dhanushkodi in Rameswaram district. The stretch from Mukuntharayar Chathiram to Arichalmunai through Dhanushkodi has since become an important tourism destination after the road was laid. 

 Ahead of this, the parking lot will also be restored on the revenue land as it existed before the once flourishing port town was devastated in the 1964 cyclonic storm. The authorities revealed this plan to the   of the Madras high court Madurai bench, justices KK Sasidharan, GR Swaminathan and J Nishabanu, on Sunday. The judges inspected Lord Sri Ramanatha Swamy temple, Dhanushkodi and the ongoing works on   bridge and in Rameswaram.
 
 A batch of cases are before the high court bench seeking adequate facilities to devotees coming to the temple and to avoid mixing of sewage water in Agni Theertham (sea). Irregularities in the management of the bathing facility in 22 holy wells situated inside the temple and need for improving the amenities to people living at Dhanushkodi were also brought to the notice of the court. When the division bench heard them, the authorities told the bench that they had taken measures to redress the grievances. The judges came to Rameswaram and visited Pamban bridge, Rameswaram temple and Dhanushkodi to inspect the facilities for themselves. 
 
 Local people ventilated their grievances before the judges and urged them to take concrete steps to prevent accidents on Pamban bridge road. They pointed out that the politicians and government officials had not taken steps to save road users and that accidents were happening every day. They said the tourists witnessed Pamban bridge by parking vehicles on the road causing huge traffic jams on the bridge. It caused inconvenience to the people in crossing the bridge. Besides, the highways department did not carry out road repair works properly, they claimed. 
 
 Akila Indhiya Paarambariya Meenavargal Sangam state president X Chinathambi said, “Recently, the department carried out maintenance work on Pamban bridge spending Rs 18.3 crore. But the work was very poor. After the people took the issue to the streets, they laid a new road using rubber and tar at Rs 2.6 crore. As it caused many accidents, now they laid a new road costing Rs 2.3 crore.”
 
 Besides, the authorities were least concerned about preventing vehicles coming at high speed. A vehicle which was supposed to go at 30 km/ hour speed on the bridge zipped at more than 50 km speed. Many light posts got damaged in accidents, said P Prabakar of Mandapam. 
 
 At Dhanushkodi, members of the fishing community said they wanted to remain there. After the cyclone ruined Dhanushkodi five decades ago, the families were shifted by the authorities to Natarajapuram, Ramakrishnapuram and other places. Over the period, about 300 families gradually shifted to Mukuntharayarpuram, Dhanushkodi and Arichalmunai. 
 
 “The authorities wants us to leave our place, but we are here for years. We are fully depending on fishing activity in two seas - Bay of Bengal and Indian Ocean. We earn a small amount of money by selling conches,” said K Ravikumar of Arichalmuai. The people in Dhanushkodi's Old Harbour also reiterated the same. 
 
 Government officials told the judges that road works were carried out in order to avoid accidents and to protect the bridge. Allowing people to remain on the seashore was unsafe for them. In the recent past, many places got eroded, the officials said. 
 
 
