BHUBANESWAR: All the three major students’ organizations, the Biju Chhatra   (BCJD), the   ( ) and the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) claimed their candidates won more posts compared to others in the student union elections held on Saturday.

 While the BCJD, the students’ wing of the ruling BJD, said its candidates won 95% of the union posts across the state, the BJP-backed ABVP said it emerged victorious in 60% posts. The NSUI, student wing of Congress, claimed victory in 64% leaving people at large confused since all can’t be true. Each said the other is lying.
 
 Initial reports, however, suggest the BCJD maintained its dominance in most colleges and universities that went to polls. It’s altogether a different matter that important campuses such as Utkal University and Ravenshaw University did not go to polls.
 
 Addressing a news conference, BCJD state president Rana Pratap Patra said candidates of his organization won elections in Ramadevi Women’s University, Berhampur University, Khallikote University and Fakir Mohan University besides most colleges.
 
 NSUI state president Itish Pradhan said his organization has won 64 per cent of the college unions. “BCJD and ABVP have started telling lies to appease their leaders,” he alleged.
 
 ABVP state secretary Abhilash Panda said apart from Sambalpur University and Gangadhar Meher University, ABVP candidates won in most colleges. 
 
 With Lok Sabha and assembly elections less than two years away, the political parties tried their best to ensure students’ bodies backed by them do well.
 
 The poll process was largely peaceful across the state on Saturday. The state has 842 degree colleges and 12 universities. Seven colleges and five universities didn't hold elections this year due to violence and other reasons.
 
 In Bhubaneswar, Soubhagya Soumyashree Samal was elected as president of students union of the Ramadevi Women’s University. Another major institution, Rajdhani College, had four presidential candidates. But Rajat Kumar Parida, rebel candidate of the BCJD, was elected as president candidate of the students union.
 
 Ekamra College which went to polls after four years conducted the polls peacefully. Aumkar Acharya was elected as president of students’ union of the college, while Biswajit Sundaray became vice president.
 
 Dibyajyoti Dash was elected as president of students union of Sambalpur University. Twinkle Patra and Budhadev Bag were elected as vice president and general secretary of the union respectively.
 
 Harendra Kumar Paik was elected as the president of the students’ union of Gangadhar Meher University (GMU). Ritesh Ranjan Meher and Bhavani Ranbida were elected as vice president and general secretary of the students union respectively.
 
 Voting process started at 8 am and continued till 2 pm. Students turned up in their colleges and university to take part in the election. Candidates at some places welcomed their voters with roses, pens and chocolates.
 
