B-Town’s celebrity   team, which has previously played for charitable causes, took on a team of   (Central Industrial Security Force) officials at an honourary match in Mumbai. The game was organised by the CISF as a part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mission XI campaign to encourage football among young Indians.
This October, India will open its doors to the   Under 17  . In a bid to gear up for that, the central government has looped in all forces like the CISF to host football matches across the country and encourage youngsters to actively participate in the game. The first phase of the mission was concluded in Mumbai with the CISF v/s   match at a private gymkhana. 
 
  
  
 The CISF team had participants from Maharashtra, Goa, Daman and Diu. Team Bollywood, comprising   (captain),   (vice captain), Ranbir’s cousin Arman Jain, TV actors Shabbir Ahluwalia and Vivian D’Sena, entrepreneurs Raj Kundra and Sachiin Joshi, and filmmaker Shoojit Sircar among others, beat the CISF team 2-1 in a match that lasted 105 minutes approximately (including a break for drinks). Model Marc Robinson, Bollywood’s goalkeeper, played a key role in their win.
 Bunty Walia was at the helm of affairs for Team Bollywood. A member of Bunty’s team asserts that PM Modi had expressed his desire to hold the said match preceding the Under 17 FIFA World Cup. More such matches will be held between July and September to increase the game’s visibility among youngsters. Team Bollywood’s members are also expected to be present at most of the world cup matches that will take place in October.
 Speaking to BT, Satish Khandare (IG, CISF, Western Sector, Mumbai) said, “The FIFA U 17 World Cup kicks off in October and our Prime Minister had desired that football tournaments for boys and girls under the age of 19 should be organised all over the country. Forces like ours encourage sports and that’s why we have been entrusted with the responsibility to organise these matches. Looping in celebrities bring more visibility to the game. We also want parents to encourage their children to play football.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
