BENGALURU: As part of their intiative to save and reclaim  ,   under the umbrella of United Bengaluru undertook an inspection of the city’s waterbodies on Saturday. The aim was to look for violations like dumping of garbage at the lake bed, encroachments and sewage inflow, and take action to prevent them. 

 Freedom fighter HS Doreswamy, urban expert Ashwin Mahesh, local lake committee members and water experts, including S Vishwanath, inspected four lakes in north Bengaluru —  , Allalasandra, Yelahanka and Jakkur. They discussed issues like sewage flow into Yelahanka lake, which pollutes Allalasandra lake too. They found that effluents from KMF and a nearby gated community are flowing into Yelahanka lake and decided to take up the issue with civic authorities.
 
 The objective was to empower citizens in the wake of the National Green Tribunal order on dumping of waste/debris into lakes. According to the order, one can be penalized upto Rs 5 lakh for such violations.   members said they will extend legal support to citizens attempting to safeguard neighbourhood lakes, if required.
 
 Puttenhalli lake is home to a variety of avi-fauna and local committee has been working towards restoring the lake and its biodiversity. However, it continues to be encroached upon, mainly in the Attur bund area. The lake is being polluted by sewage inflow, debris dumping and industrial waste from Yelahanka New Town. The lake activists found the wetlands between Puttenahalli and Yelahanka lakes are being encroached.
 
 At Allalasandra lake, which over 30 species of migratory birds, a major rejuvenation project was undertaken by KSPCB, BBMP and Yelahanka United Environment Association in 2013. By early 2015, sewage inflow was stopped. However, the problem has returned with sewage entering the lake from broken storm water drains. 
 
 The activists found that Jakkur lake also has its share of problems. A German company has been entrusted with cleaning the lake water in the sewage treatment plant and the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPTCL) is ready to float tenders to use the purified water for its gas-based electricity plant in Yelahanka. Activists said they will protest against the KPTCL move. “These lakes, if protected, can fulfil the water requirements of Bengaluru and the city doesn’t need to depend on Cauvery alone. But political will is needed to support citizens,” said Vishwanath.
 
 “I am overwhelmed by the sense of responsibility that Yelahanka MLA SR Vishwanath and United Bengaluru have taken to save lakes. This will help the present and future generations,” said HS Doreswamy.
 
