TIRUVANNAMALAI: Two months after the mysterious death of nine-year-old Nelson and five of his family members at Thandarai Colony near Tiruvannamalai town, the police have said they have made little headway in the case. 

 Fearing black magic, several families fled the village and the attendance of the Panchayat Union Middle School in Colony had also dropped to seven from the total strength of 105.
 
 Though normalcy returned to the colony after two months, the mystery over the deaths is still a talking point here. “We don’t know what went wrong,” said Arockia Doss, Nelson’s father.
 
 It all started with the death of A Christopher, 13, son of  , on October 7. It was followed with the deaths of his relatives - Vinod Kumar, 23, Nelson, 11,  , 7, and Nelson’s grandfather Joseph, 70, and Merlin’s grandmother Christha, 65 - between October 7 and 31. All of the six vomited and complained of stomach ache hours before their demise.
 
 Three of the family members –   and Merlin’s younger brother Saran and their relative Vincent Prabhakar – were admitted to the hospital with same symptoms but recovered. No trace of poison was found in the vomit of prabakar. 
 
 The district administration, following the death of Merlin, 7, on October 23, dispatched a team of officials from health, revenue and animal husbandry to camp in the village. The team examined all the residents and the livestock in the colony for communicable disease. The officials ruled out the outbreak of communicable disease.
 
 Christha’s postmortem report and other tests said she had died of yellow phosphorus (rat poison). 
 
 Yellow phosphorous reacts 72 hours after consumption. “All the six might have been given poison-laced food three to four days before their death,” said a senior official in the health department.
 
 The police strongly suspected the involvement of people within the family but have made little progress. “They called it a case of poisoning and did nothing,” said Doss. 
 
 “Family members are not cooperating,” said a police official privy to the investigation and said they have put the case on the back burner.
 
