  : A day after deaths of three dialysis patients at the   and Research Institute following a power cut, a relative of one of the deceased said the dialysis machines did not resume functioning even after power was restored seven minutes after the outage. However, a hospital official on Friday said the dialysis units at the institute were serviced by a technician from the supplier on March 8, a day before the tragedy. 

  P Kannan, 47, brother of S Amsa, who died undergoing dialysis, said neither a doctor nor any   were present when the   at 12 noon on Thursday. "Two paramedical staff members, who attended the patients a few minutes after the power was restored, told the attendants that the patients were in serious condition. The panic-stricken attendants saw the staff members performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) on the patients in an effort to revive them but failed," he said. The hospiral's resident medical officer R Elumalai, meanwhile, said a technician from the supplier visits the medical college hospital periodically to service the machines. "We have seven dialysis machines and we use three of them on rotation basis. A technician from the supplier visited the institute for a routine check-up and service on March 8," Elumalai said. "There are four other patients who have been   at the hospital. We have made arrangements at the Government General Hospital for them to undergo dialysis. There are 12 dialysis machines there," Elumalai said. 
 
 Director (health and family welfare services) K V Raman said the dialysis unit at the government general hospital will function for additional shifts to cover the patients of the government medical college until restoration of services at the medical college hospital. 
 
 Meanwhile opposition parties including All India NR Congress (AINRC) and civil rights' forums staged demonstrations near the hospital demanding a judicial probe into the incident. BJP Puducherry unit president V Saminathan insisted the government should equip hospitals with necessary infrastructure. 
 
 
