Punjabi actress   has become a sensation among Mollywood movie buffs, ever since the first visuals of her Mollywood debut   were released. Wamiqa, who is now gearing up to play a pivotal role in S J Surya-Ashwin Sharavanan movie Iravakaalam, talks to us about how working in the South has helped her dismiss several of her preconceived notions and more in this candid chat:

 
 
 
 To be honest, I had a very bad impression about South Indian films in the beginning. I have watched the dubbed versions on TV during my childhood and they always had the hero pinching the heroine on her tummy. I found the movies here over the top. So, when I received a call from my first South Indian movie, Malai Nerathu Mayakama, I outrightly rejected it. I then researched and found that there are quite a few beautiful movies made in the South. So, I decided to give it a go and after working with the team, I realised that all my preconceived notions were wrong. None of the films I have worked in here had any midriff baring scenes. I feel happier here than in the North.
 
 
 
 
 The South has given me better characters than I will ever get in the North. They are also strong women, not just eye candy. In Godha, I am seen in T-shirts and trousers. I will always call it my movie rather than the hero’s. I am getting a platform here to explore my talents.
 
 
 
 
 In this movie, I play a Punjabi girl who wrestles, so had to learn the sport as well. I took up the character precisely because I wanted to do different roles. I also had a lot of fun working with the team, who were very supportive. The entire set was brimming with talent but there were no ego issues.
 
 
 
 
 I am in love with Kerala and its people. I love Kerala fish curry and I am now trying to learn  . However, Godha will see me speaking in Hindi and Punjabi, more than Malayalam.
 
 
 
 
 There are two heroines in the movie, Sshivada and me. My portions will be shot in the second schedule, which will start by the end of May in Ooty. The movie is a supernatural thriller, which revolves around marriage and relationships. I am looking forward to working with   and its director  . I also have a Punjabi film, Nikka Zaildar 2, the sequel of a period drama will coincidentally be out on my birthday, September 30.
 
 
 
 
 I am a hardcore fan of   and his movie Rockstar. I’d love to do a movie from the perspective of a lady rockstar. I have always felt a special connect with Ranbir’s characters and feel that all of them can have a female point of view as well, be it Rocket Singh, Burfi or Tamasha.
 
 
