NEW DELHI: Three brothers have been arrested for allegedly barging into   laureate Kailash Satyarthi’s home and stealing valuables, including his   and citation. All valuables other than the Nobel   have been recovered.

 The accused, arrested by the southeast district police within five days of the heist, have been identified as Rajan alias Natta (25), Vinod alias Pinki (35) and Sunil alias Sonu (28). The brothers, who are originally from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, were arrested on Saturday night following a tip-off by an informer. 
 
 “I had complete faith in the government, the police and the people of this great nation. I thank Delhi Police for the brilliant and speedy recovery of the items stolen from my residence and I hope that the Nobel citation is recovered soon as well,” said  , a child rights activist, in a statement.
 
 On February 7, the police were alerted about the burglary in house number 73 at Aravali Apartments in southeast Delhi when Satyarthi was abroad. His employee, Rakesh Sengar, told the police that the house was locked as Satyarthi was in the US. The police soon got to know that two more flats, 56 and 99, in the same apartment had also been burgled the same night. It seemed that the same gang was involved in the three crimes. The next day, the owners of flat numbers 56 and 99 returned from vacation and gave investigators details of missing jewellery and other valuables. 
 
 All items, including the Nobel medal replica, iPads, laptops and watches, have been recovered. The police are still conducting raids to trace the citation. 
 
 The accused told the police that they were familiar with the topography of the area as they used to live in the slums around the apartment complex till 2005 when these were demolished. They then shifted to Sangam Vihar but the brothers continued to work in the apartment area as construction workers or painters. 
 
 The brothers recently undertook recce of the complex a few times and decided to strike in the early hours of February 7 after finding three of the houses locked since a week. “They used the passage through the vacant land in front of the apartment complex that is barricaded with iron sheds on one side. They had bent the sheds to make way,” said joint commissioner R P Upadhyay.
 
 Rajan, who was involved in a similar crime in the same apartment in 2014, was of late working as a helper in an export firm at Okhla. Rajan, who has five brothers and two sisters, fell into bad company for easy money. He is married. Vinod, who worked as labourer at construction sites, is also married but his wife had left him due to his criminal activities. 
 
 While both Rajan and Vinod are illiterate, Sunil, who is unmarried, is a Class VI dropout and was working in a grocery shop as a helper, said DCP (southeast) Romil Baniya. 
 
 
