Guwahati: In a move to arrest Assam’s   growth,   minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday said the government was considering stringent legal actions, including increasing the quantum of punishment, for violating the legally permissible marriage ages of girls and boys (18 years and 21 years).

 Sarma said the draft population policy, which suggested several socio-economic interventions besides medical intervention, has been put in public domain for recommendations from the public. The draft policy will be placed during the assembly session in August. 
 
 The minister said that necessary amendments were requirded in the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to increase the quantum of punishment for those who violate the legally permissible ages for marriage. The draft policy points out that there is a high incidence of marriage of girls in the age group of 14 and 16 and boys between 16 and 20. The draft policy has even suggested several incentives for families having two children and disincentives for those who maintain more than two-children families. While the draft policy states candidates having more than two children will be made illegible for government jobs, Sarma said the government may legislate a legal mechanism to bar people from being elected or nominated to panchayat and other local bodies elections if they were found having more than two children.
 
 “If candidates were found having married violating the stipulated ages (18 and 21 years), they will be barred from government jobs. Families withan two children will also be deprived of various benefits under government schemes. So far, population control was more of a medical intervention. Through this draft policy, we seek to bring in socio-economic intervention for overall improvement of reproductive health scenario in the state. This draft policy is linked to poverty elimination,” Sarma said. 
 
 He said emphasis was being made to provide free education to girl students from primary to university level, check dropout of girl students in schools and stop discrimination of women in various fields. “We want to institutionalize the population control initiative. That is why the draft policy has suggested the creation of State Population Council, which will be a statutory body to monitor the implementation of population control measures. The policy involves multiple departments, and accordingly necessary amendments to different laws and service rules have to be made,” he added. The policy was necessitated by the increase of about one Crore population rise in last decade, Sarma said. Assam population according to 2011 census is 3.12 Crore. The policy states that 17.07% increase in population is unsustainable for the state. 
 
 
