Mumbai: The son of an actor, who is studying in US, has come under the scanner of the city   in connection with a drug trafficking ring. 

 The 25-year-old (name withheld), whose family resides in upmarket Juhu, is accused of supplying psychedelic drug LSD (lysergic acid diethylamide) from the US to his friends in Mumbai.
 
 On March 29, five people, including two college students, were taken into custody for possession of LSD worth Rs 70 lakh. “Our investigations revealed that the 25-year-old, who is pursuing his studies in the US, used to supply the   to his friends in Mumbai. Payments were done by Bitcoins into the suspect’s account in the US.” said a source. Deputy police commissioner Shivdeep Lande said his investigation is at an important stage. Last week, investigators landed at the Juhu flat of the 25-year-old suspect’s family. “His kin were in deep shock and seemed unaware about his activities. One of the suspect’s parents is flying to US and will try to convince him to return and face trial,” said a source. 
 
 “On the family’s request we have not yet initiated the legal process to extradite him to India. We are hoping the family gets him. If that fails, then we will initiate a red-corner notice.” the source added.
 
 Meanwhile, the five men caught with LSD have been booked under the stringent Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and were remanded in judicial custody. 
 
 LSD in the form of acid stamps, which come in sheets similar to postal stamps, has to be placed sublingual (under the tongue). It gives a kick that lasts 12 hours after peaking in two to three hours, officials said. Police said the gang has been smuggling the contraband from the US through courier services. Police said LSD is colourless and odourless, which makes it difficult to detect during scanning. 
 
 The gang made payments through Bitcoins, a form of virtual currency. Since e-currency is not authorized by the RBI and the authorities are probing if there is a breach of anti-money laundering provisions.
 
 
