GURUGRAM: Two months after the fee and fund regulatory committee ( ) stayed the fee hike in  , Sector 4, parents claim to have received a message from the school that the order has been overruled. 

 The school has now asked parents to pay the hiked fee by October 4. 
 
 On July 31, the FFRC had dismissed the school’s entitlement to hike fee as it had failed to submit Form VI on time – a key prerequisite before a school can hike the fee. “The FFRC had conducted an audit and asked the school to roll back the fee. However, the order has been further stayed by the additional chief secretary. This is unfair to us,” said a parent. To make matters worse, the school has now asked us to pay the fee by October 4, in four days’ time, with holidays in between,” said Mahesh, a parent.
 
 Suman Gulati, director, Blue Bells Model School, told TOI: “We are glad that the order has been stayed. We have been saying all along that our fee hike is reasonable and within the prescribed norms, which is why we decided to challenge the FFRC order.”
 
 Parents said they had received a message that additional chief secretary, school education, K K Khandelwal, had overruled the FFRC’s decision. However, Khandelwal denied passing any such order. “No such order has been passed,” he told TOI on Sunday. Asked about the communication from the school, he said he wasn’t aware of it. 
 
 Parents said they would now approach chief minister  . “We are not going to pay the fees. We’ll go to the CM, and if required, we will also approach the   ministry against the school. They are charging Rs 1.2 lakh per student, whereas our calculations say it should not be more than Rs 45,000,” said Bakshi Singh, father of a Class V student. 
 
 In 2016, then principal secretary P K Das had stayed an FFRC order after private schools questioned the mandate of the committee. 
 
 Consequently, the audits were put on hold for another year. It was after mass protests this summer that FFRC started the process of audit again.
 
