GUWAHATI: The Opposition staged a walkout on the second day of the assembly's budget session after speaker   rejected its plea to adjourn business for the day to discuss the eviction drives the government has undertaken in several places. 

 Congress and   had, in two separate adjournment motions, sought to discuss the   against   and rehabilitation of those who have been evicted. After listening to both the Opposition and government versions over admission of the adjournment motion, the speaker said the issue can be discussed through three other devices. Following this, the entire Opposition rose on their feet.
 
 "I have given my ruling. You may not like it but, you cannot challenge my ruling," Goswami said. Leader of the Opposition Debabrata Saikia quickly responded, saying, "As you are not allowing us to discuss the issue, we are leaving the House now."
 
 Earlier, arguing for admission of the motion, Saikia accused the government of evicting people without thinking about their rehabilitation. Many of those evicted were indigenous people with valid land documents, he said. "The government proposes to hand out some compensation as per the old British-made policy. It had assured to compensate the people within 40 days, but 90 days have already passed. The government has broken its promise," Saikia said.
 
 AIUDF legislator Hafiz Bashir Ahmed, while moving his party's motion, charged the government with making thousands of Indian citizens landless and homeless. "Without any proper verification, people are evicted and living in open areas like the river banks in this cold weather. Children have died. It is a matter of public importance as the government failed to deliver on its promises. So, the matter has to be discussed," he added.
 
 Ahmed alleged that the government was treating the evicted persons as suspected Bangladeshi nationals and said, "If that is the case, then why were they not being sent to detention camps, allowing them instead to leave the place and settle again somewhere else?"
 
 In reply to the Opposition's move, parliamentary affairs minister   said the government cannot allow any adjournment motion and does not identify encroachers on the basis of religion, caste or creed. "We cannot allow an adjournment motion during the budget discussion or discussions on Thanks to President's and governor's speech. There are four other devices and the opposition should introduce the motion through those," he said. 
 
