Trichy: Seven   of a 31-year-old brain dead male accident victim from Trichy gave new lease of life to six patients in Trichy, Madurai and Chennai on Tuesday. Trichy city police created a 9.5km long green corridor to take the heart and lung to Trichy international airport, from where it was air-lifted to a hospital in Chennai.

 V Venkatesan, 30, from Vaiyampatti near Manapparai in Trichy district, was declared brain dead by doctors of Cethar Hospitals at Thillai Nagar in Trichy at around 05am on Tuesday after he was diagnosed with severe brain stem injury. He is survived by his wife, a two-year-old daughter and his mother. 
 
 On being declared as brain-dead, the hospital approached his family, seeking a donation of his organs. Once the family agreed to donate his organs, the hospital began preparations to harvest them.
 
 The transplant and retrieval team of the hospital harvested the patient’s heart, lung, liver, two kidneys and two corneas on Tuesday morning. As per the allotment of the Tamil Nadu Organ Network Sharing (TNOS), the heart and lungs were harvested for a patient at Global Hospitals in Chennai. 
 
 The hospital required a green corridor to transport the two organs to Trichy International Airport quickly. Trichy city police commissioner A Arun ordered the police to set up a green corridor from Thillai Nagar to the city airport. The team, led by assistant commissioner of police Vigneswaran, covered a 9.5km stretch in 10 minutes after which the lungs were taken to Chennai by a Jet Airways flight at 11.50am. The flight landed in Chennai at 12.40 pm. The transplantation was done at 1.30pm. 
 
 The police posted personnel at important junctions such as Sasthri Road 5th cross junction, Mahatma School, MGR statue junction, district court junction, Muthraiyar statue, head post office, TVS toll gate and Radha hotel to ensure obstruction-free movement of the vehicle. 
 
 The retrieved liver was used for a patient with end stage liver disease at Cethar hospitals here. One kidney was sent to Kauvery hospitals in Trichy and the other to Government Rajaji hospital (GRH) in Madurai. Both the eyes were used by AG Eye Hospital in Trichy. 
 
 Venkatesan had met with an accident near Rajalipatti near Viralimalai on March 25. After treatment in a private hospital in Manapparai and Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy, he was shifted to Cethar hospital on March 27, where he was declared brain dead.
 
 
