 was a much loved name in  's literary circles. He became a household name across the country, and abroad too, after  , based on his writings, went on air in 2008. The daily soap brought a whiff of fresh air in an era dominated by countless saas-bahu sagas, and it remains one of the top, longest running shows on Indian entertainment television. India woke up to some very sad news on Wednesday morning, as the light-hearted show lost its soul. Mehta, who had the unique gift of viewing the world through his `ooltah chashmah', breathed his last in Ahmedabad at 87, after a prolonged illness. And with his demise, curtains fell on an era of clean humour and quintessentially middle-class oriented writings, which entertained millions of readers for years. Without resorting to double-meaning jokes and below the belt humour, considered par for the course in today's times by many, Mehta managed to bring a chuckle on the faces of readers from different generations. And he did it day after day, year after year.

 It takes special ability to make people laugh, but Mehta did it effortlessly .And even when he went through troubled times in his personal life, this gifted writer didn't let it affect his writings. In fact, there is a lot to learn from his personal life too. Though he separated from Ila, his first wife, many years ago, they continued to share a very special bond. While Ila married Manohar Doshi soon after separation, Mehta married Indu. There was no bitterness between the families and after Doshi passed away, the Mehtas insisted that Ila should also move to Ahmedabad. The couple helped her find a house, and they lived in separate flats in the same building. According to family friends, Ila and Indu would attend all social functions together, including Mehta's book release functions, and the three would make it a point to have dinner together. Ila's daughter Ishani was also close to Indu and stayed with the Mehtas till she moved to US.
 
 In 2009, tragedy struck when Ila, who was suffering from depression, committed suicide. Mehta even suffered from glaucoma for a long time, but this eye problem couldn't damage his humorous `vision'.
 
 In spite of these setbacks in his personal life, he continued to make the nation laugh till his very last breath.
 
 
 
 I have met him at least six seven times and what struck me the most was he was one of the wonderful conversationalists. He could take humour to an unimagined level. I made sure to invite him for most of my plays that opened in Ahmedabad and he came unfailingly till the time his health hit a low. One conversation with him I distinctly remember was on “Usage of language in comedy“ wherein he was elaborating on how usage of words can make a difference particularly in theatre. One sentence I clearly remember from him is “humour should be organic“. As a person, he was a curious one. He majorly discussed theatre with me as he was always keen on understanding the future of theatre, the production part as well the market. I was lucky to play the role of Jerry in his Gujarati adaptation up of Edward Albee's popular play The Zoo Story. I followed his articles under the column Duniya Ne Undha Chashma and his `tapudo' was just amazing. He will be missed.
 
 
 
 
 I remember meeting him with my father when I was very young. I have followed his column Duniya Ne Undha Chashma and also follow the TV show sometimes. His observations about small things in life were amazing. His contribution to Gujarati literature is immense. His death is a huge loss to Gujarati literature.
 
 
 
 
 Tarak Mehta sir was great person. Prior to doing Taarak Mehta..., when I was doing theatre,if ever I felt sad , reading his books or articles filled me with positivity and made me feel upbeat.I am still in shock over his death. I have met his death. I have met him many times at his place. His death is a big loss to Gujarati literature and I feel blessed to be associated with the show that is based on his articles.
 
 
 
 He was a legend. I have grown up reading his work and also watched the popular TV series based on one of his books. He was a blessing in our lives. We will surely miss him.
 
 
 
 
 He was a legendry writer whose contribution to Gujarati literature will always be remembered. I used to follow his column Duniya Ne Undha Chashma regularly and adored his style.
 
 
 
 
 He was a very warm and affectionate person ­ never had any expectations and always welcomed everyone whole-heartedly. I was like a daughter to him.Even though I couldn't meet him much in recent times, he never complained to me about not keeping in touch. He never got into any politics nor did he have any ill words to say about anyone. He was selfless, didn't crave for any awards, never felt jealous of his contemporaries. His literary contributions are phenomenal. My personal favourite is his autobiography Action Replay ­ it would be impossible for anyone else to pen it like him! He could express his thoughts in his writings without any inhibitions.
 
 
  
 
 Words cannot do justice to the stature of his writing and its impact on the readers. We can only measure if by the immense love he received from his readers. I have fond memories of reading his column. Not just India, a number of Gujaratis overseas too loved his writing. His work will always be remembered by us.
 
 
 
 
 I met Tarak Mehta for the first time at an award function two years back, and what struck me was his zest for life. Even at his age, when he was not in the best of his health, he had a wonderful smile on his face and mingled with people with unparalleled warmth and love. He will be missed as a writer, a person and an inspiration.
 
 
 
 
 I never a got a chance to meet him or work on any of his plays, but this is one of the biggest losses to the humor in Gujarati literature. His style was different and it will be hugely missed.
 
 
 Tarak Mehta was one of the best humorists in Gujarati literature. His creation, Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashma, is one of the most popular TV shows in India. He will live in our hearts through Tappu, Daya Bhabhi, Jethalal... May his soul rest in peace.
 
 
 
 
 Tarak Mahta went to Mumbai to become an actor, but got interested in theatre. Eventually he became famous as a columnist. So he never ceased to explore himself as an artist and even at an old age he was always full of life.
 
 
 
 Gujarati culture shall always remain indebted to Tarak Mehta for lending a new vision with his ultah chashma. When nothing seems happy, all you need is an ultah chashma to see the brighter side.You shall always be missed Tarak Mehta.
 
 
 
 
 Tarak was a great friend and it was only last month that I had met him. We even clicked a few photographs together. He was a very good actor and director too. Years back, we were asked to perform skits for two hours at a prestigious seminar in Surat and although we were a bit nervous, Tarak made it a cakewalk. He was a really gifted humourist, and could write on absolutely any topic. Also, whenever we chatted for hours, he kept cracking jokes. While the actors in Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah are doing a good job, a lot of credit for its amazing success story should go to Tarak. He used to tell me, “Yezdi, silence and smile are the two most beautiful ornaments of life. Smiling takes you closer to God but when you make others smile, God comes closer to you.“ I salute him for the way he managed to make people laugh for so many years and instead of mourning his death, all of us should celebrate his greatness.“
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
