BENGALURU: Most can handle victory, but it takes a man of character and courage to embrace defeat, regroup and focus on the road ahead. In  , India have a leader who believes in accountability and acceptance.

 On Friday, as India put the finishing touches to their preparations for the second Test against Australia here, Kohli was a picture of peace and composure and was forthright in accepting his team's shortcomings.
 
 Asked about the importance of putting behind a loss, he said: "Obviously, you will want to forget a bad result but it's important that you take it to heart. It's important to learn from it. If you ignore it, you can't improve. It's important to accept that we lost the Test because of a lack of intent and the other team played better cricket than us. If your ego is hurt and you ignore it, it just piles on."
 
 In the same breath he added: "We know we didn't play well and Australia did. That doesn't mean that will happen in every Test. If you play well every day, every session, then you will win the Test. We didn't do that. You will not get to see a performance like that again. That I can assure you."
 
 In victory, everything looks rosy but it takes a loss to go back to the drawing board and plug the gaps. Top of India's checklist is to ensure success is built on team excellence rather than individual brilliance. Take for example, Kohli's contribution in the last 10 Test matches. Off the 6,150 runs scored by India, Kohli has contributed 1,219 and the next best is   with 948. 
 
 This amounts to almost 35% of the scoring by two batsmen. Similarly, of the 186 wickets (excluding run outs) claimed by India, the spin duo of   (68) and   (51) have chipped in with 119 wickets. Kohli said: "Sometimes when you are winning games, you don't focus on points that need improvement because someone or the other is stepping up. When the whole team does not execute things you want to, you understand what you need to work on as a team. That's always a good sign. We got to know the things we need to work on to be the top side in the world."
 
 Kohli also dismissed critics, saying they do nothing to his team's morale. "I felt this strange energy, that people were excited about the fact that they had something to write about the team after two years. Yeah, the pitch came into contention and the players' mindset, skills, pressure and what not. Everything came into contention. As a team, we never got excited by praise, we don't focus on criticism either."
 
 
