MUMBAI: When Mumbai-based professionals Pratibha and Neha, both in their late twenties, decided to make their dream of spending an extended weekend in Thailand a reality, raising quick money posed a problem. Parental assistance was out of the question while credit cards and personal loans from banks were too expensive and time-consuming. Help came from an unexpected quarter –– their smartphones.
 
  Digital   like  ,   and   are stepping in to meet this rising demand of India’s young and footloose generation by providing instant small-value loans, attractive repayment schemes and quick disbursals.
  
  “People take anywhere between Rs 60,000 and Rs 1 lakh for their dream holiday with their friends and to ease their cash flow, prefer to pay it back over the next 6-9 months,” said Sayali Karanjkar, cofounder of PaySense. “Usually the interest rate hovers around 2% per month for such loans but it’s cheaper than a credit card and quicker than a personal loan from a bank.”
  
  
  
  
  The advantage these platforms have over banks is that they are quick to disburse loans, prefer salaried professionals with a steady income and do not ask for lengthy paperwork. Also, it is easier for consumers to check eligibility on these apps.
  
  Mumbai-based online platform PaySense has a loan book of.Rs 40 crore and has already disbursed around 15,000 loans to customers. The lending is done by financial services company India Infoline. PaySense is even doubling its present limit of Rs 1 lakh for its customers to enable people to go for longer foreign trips.
  
  While many opt for foreign travel, many others take smaller loans to just go to the nearest beach or hill station over an extended weekend. EarlySalary, a Pune-based digital lending startup sees a spurt in applications for such loans on the last day of an extended weekend every month which is usually used for travelling.
  
  “We have compiled data over the last two months and have found that on an average around 1,758 loans were disbursed for travel,” said Akshay Mehrotra, chief executive officer of EarlySalary. “We expect to process around 1,000 loans alone on August 13 as people will make travel plans for the four-day extended Independence Day holiday.”
  
  EarlySalary, which tracked the spending data of its customers, has found that 37% of its Mumbaibased borrowers who took loans just before the weekend travelled to different cities. While 16% of them went to Pune, 13% went to Goa and around 6% went abroad.
  
  “While customers with their families usually make planned trips during vacations, young professionals take loans for these unplanned quick trips,” said Mehrotra. “100% of our customers travelling on long weekends are aged 32 years or below.”
  
  Platforms like LoanTap can disburse the amount to first-time borrowers within 5-6 days and even disburse it instantly to customers who have been given a credit line already.
  
  “A lot of our customers use the overdraft limit for longer weekends and the average amount for travel hovers around .Rs 1.5 lakh for us,” said Satyam Kumar, executive director at LoanTap Financial Technologies, another Pune-based lending platform.
  
  
