MANGALURU: Bringing academia and industry closer,   (HCCI) in collaboration with NITK, Surathkal, launched first-of-its-kind NextGen 3D Lab at NITK Campus. The lab aims at making budding engineers industry-ready by the time they graduate.

 NextGen 3D Lab, costing about Rs 7.7 crore, was inaugurated on Thursday. This will also help in higher education and research, through its campus championing programme. “This facility is offered free of cost to the students of NIT-K as well engineering students across the country. It gives a hands-on-experience to the students,” said Nandini Sabanayagam, director of HCCI.
 
 Interacting with mediapersons after inaugurating the lab, Nandini said the lab will be operational round-the-clock. “HCCI has a long partnership with NIT-K, Surathkal, in regard to recruitment and dedication of NextGen 3D Lab has taken our relationship to another level,” she added.
 
 Navaneet Mishra, vice-president & country head, Hexagon Capability Center India, said, “With focus on manufacturing and defence sectors increasing for next growth curve for the country, industry will require skilled workforce from campuses, to solve complex engineering problems locally. To support this initiative, academia needs to provide students with the latest industry skills and knowledge base of ready-to-use global software tools. We collaborated with NIT-K, to deliver on this lab, enabling students to have hands-on-experience using a top global engineering enterprise platform.”
 
 K N Lokesh, director, NIT-K, Surathkal, said the lab intends to prepare industry ready skilled engineering graduates. This course aims to address the demand for students with strong acumen in complex multi-disciplinary industrial project and its visualization. Students get to work on live projects, an opportunity to innovate and work on global technologies and be updated with the market. Mrityunjay Doddamani and K V Gangadharan will be leading this lab.
 
 What is NextGen 3D Lab?
 
 The Smart 3D is a next generation, data-centric, and rule-driven solution, which is specifically designed to deliver mission-critical requirements. It enables designers, subcontractors/suppliers, authorities, and others to easily and effectively monitor, manage, or execute projects across companies and around the world. Its global engineering and data reuse capabilities provide the widest range of users with valuable product model information that is always up-to-date to reduce project cost and schedule delays.
 
 A fundamental component of Intergraph’s SmartPlant Enterprise, Intergraph Smart 3D provides all of the capabilities needed to design plant, marine, and materials handling facilities, and then operate and maintain them subsequently. It also provides multi-industry capabilities in a single application. It is the only system to offer interoperability with both graphics and data attributes of foreign CAD models, making it ideally suited to brownfield and joint-venture projects.
 
