BENGALURU: The over-aged   shorter city routes seem to be the only constant in the world’s most dynamic city. As per policy, a bus is supposed to be scrapped after it has run for 8.5 lakh km but the transport corporation has been operating these old vehicles for the lack of new ones.

 Protruding metal rods, broken lights, dangling wires, loose poles and missing handles, doors that refuse to shut and window panes that refuse to move are what you find in these ageing city buses.
 
 Nityashree Shetty, 48, a resident of Byatarayanapura who takes one of these buses every day recently had a freak accident. “The bus seat was not properly fixed and the screws were missing. When the driver suddenly applied brakes, I slid off the seat and hurt my knees,” she says.
 
 The buses are a nightmare for the physically challenged who find it difficult to board them owing to their steep steps. “The steps of the buses are too high and sometimes my crutches stuck in between the ridges on the footboards,” says 28-year-old Narendra Kumar, a physically challenged commuter.
 
 “In most of these buses, window panes are missing or don’t shut. The seats get wet during rains and many passengers have to travel standing. Sitting with a child by the window can be risky in case panes are missing,” says Neetu Rao, mother of two and a resident of south Bengaluru’s Giringar.
 
 We are getting new buses soon: BMTC 
 
 The BMTC, that ferries more than 50 lakh people every day, will add 1,658 new buses to its fleet. “We follow a scrapping policy wherein a bus is discarded after it completes 8.5 lakh km or 10 years in service, whichever is earlier. The corporation has decided not to spend more than Rs 1.5 lakh on upkeep of a bus,” officials said.
 
 BMTC’s chief traffic manager (operation) K R Viswanath said, “Infrastructural problems have delayed procurement of new buses. Unlike private sector, government organizations need approval from a host of agencies.”
 
 Shortage of bus mechanics is another major challenge that BMTC is facing. “The limited number of mechanics we have are constantly shifted to depots where buses needs repair.”
 
 (- Deeksha Suresh, Anjali B Pujari, Shreyasee Kulkarni & Srividya Yeleswarapu)
 
