BHOPAL: The   government on Monday transferred Katni district superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Tiwari to Chhindwara. The 2010-batch young IPS officer was investigating some influential leaders in the ruling BJP for their alleged links to a Rs 500-crore hawala racket. The case is now being forwarded to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID).

 State Congress has alleged that state MSME minister Sanjay Pathak was trying to get Gaurav Tiwari shifted out since he reopened investigations into the transactions running into crores. “This action is going to demoralise honest police officers. SP Gaurav Tiwari was heading towards the right direction. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should look into this matter as this case is also associated with  ,” said state Congress spokesperson K K Mishra.
 
 Sanjay Pathak, however, denied all the charges. “I have not asked anyone to transfer the SP. I am not aware of the reason behind his transfer, but this is sure that he is going to a bigger district -- which means he has been elevated for his outstanding performance,” Pathak told TOI on Monday.
 
 The minister also said that he has nothing to do with the “hawala racket” and his name was coined by a “section of media” to benefit those involved. When contacted, home minister Bhupendra Singh said he “would get back”.
 
 The sensational case of huge transactions in fictitious accounts had surfaced a few months ago following a complaint from a farmer claiming that unidentified people made transactions of Rs 90 lakh from a Jan Dhan saving account opened in his name at an Axis Bank branch in Katni district. He had come to know of the transactions only after receiving a notice from the Income Tax (I-T) department, said police.
 
 Another person had made a similar complaint alleging cash transactions of Rs 16 lakh through a savings account opened in his name at the same bank branch. The matter was initially brushed under the carpet. But when Tiwari took charge he reopened the case and found out around 32 such accounts through which huge transactions were carried out. These accounts were opened in the name of BPL cardholders as well as small and micro enterprises (MSMEs).
 
 Investigations had revealed that such accounts were opened by mining barons.
 
 Tiwari’s transfer has once again created a flutter in the IPS circle. Earlier, it was the insurgency-trained police force in the Maoist hotbed of Balaghat that had been shaken and stirred by an unprecedented crackdown by the state government after an alleged assault on a RSS pracharak.
 
