JALANDHAR: Three-time   and   Avtar Henry's vote has been struck off from the   of Jalandhar (North) constituency. An order to this effect was pronounced by the returning officer (RO) Barjinder Singh on Thursday, while deciding objections submitted by three persons by filing Form No. 7 against his vote. Henry was in the race for   ticket from Jalandhar (North) and a dozen sitting and eight former councillors had recently demanded a ticket for him. 

 His name was struck off from the electoral roll on November 30, 2012, following an order by the Union ministry of home affairs (foreigners division) on August 16, 2012. "The Union government, in exercise of powers conferred on it under Section 9 (2) of the Citizenship Act, 1955 and rules made there under, determines that Avtar Henry ceased to be a citizen of India from the date he acquired the British citizenship and passport in 1969," it said in its order. He was again enrolled as voter by ARO Paramjit Singh Sahota through an order on November 3, 2016, after Henry applied for his vote by submitting Form No. 6 on October 16, 2016. He had also attached his passport issued on November 11, 2014 and another passport issued on July 20, 2016 along with a self-declaration that he was an Indian citizen.
 
 Two residents submitted Form No. 7 on November 19, 2016, to challenge his vote, but withdrew on November 20. Three others submitted the objections and pursued it. During the proceedings, it became clear that the passport issued by the Regional Passport Officer (RPO) was Henry's main ground for pushing his application for enrolment as voter. The returning officer had also sought clarifications from RPO.
 
 In his order on Thursday, RO held the Union ministry's 2012 order was still in force; an appeal against it is still pending. He held all the confusion was caused due to the passport issued by the RPO, in which it was mentioned that Henry was Indian citizen. "Even in his reply, the RPO has mentioned that according to Section 20 of the Passport Act, passport can be issued in public interest to a person even if the latter is not an Indian citizen."
 
 
