PUNE: Three years ago, when   moved into  , a housing society in Wagholi, there was a small pile of garbage around 50m from his society. Today, it has turned into a heap that is approximately the height of a two-storey building.

 “Imagine waking up to smoke-filled air and burning garbage. We have spent a lot of money to develop a garden and maintain it, but we discourage our kids from going outside as the air here is filled with toxic gases,” Shrivastava said.
 
 The rain has only exacerbated this situation. The garbage that lies in the open gets wet and decomposes, letting out a horible smell. It is then sprinkled with inflammable liquid and burnt.
 
 Sudarshan Ambekar, another resident of Meadows Mystique, said the overflowing garbage and rain is a deadly combination. “When it rains, the garbage starts decomposing and black stinky liquid seeps out. This has also affected the groundwater as the bore well water we get has turned yellow. We are planning to get the water tested,” Ambekar, who is a chemical engineer, said.
 
 He further added that though the gram panchayat has distributed separate bins for wet and dry waste, the garbage gets mixed during collection. While dry waste burns easily, kerosene has to be sprinkled over wet waste to burn it.
 
 A notice from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board regarding   has not brought about any change in the action of the Wagholi gram panchayat, which sees garbage burning as the solution to get rid of it.
 
 Gajanan Canchal, a resident of   in Wagholi, said the gram panchayat’s excuse is that no residential colony is agreeing to give space for the panchayat to make it a dumping ground. “There is a lot of smoke in the area as heaps of garbage keep burning for long hours. It is difficult to breathe even indoors,” Canchal said.
 
 Sameer Bhadale, the deputy sarpanch of Wagholi, however, said the area might get a treatment plant in three months. “In a meeting held on June 27, we decided to set up a treatment plant that has been developed in Hyderabad. It requires 10 guntas (10,000sqft) space, and can be built at a cost of Rs 2 crore. We are planning to visit the plant in a few days and then set it up here,” he said.
 
