GURUGRAM:   Model School   on Wednesday staged a   outside its premises in Sector 4 against lack of facilities at the school. The parents sat outside the school for over two hours before converging at the office of the divisional commissioner, who was not there.

 Blue Bells was mired in   controversy in April this year, but the issues were mutually resolved after the school reportedly assured parents of fee concessions in July.
 
 Carrying banners, over two dozen parents gathered outside the school around 7 am and shouted slogans against what they termed as “extra fee being collected by the management while not providing the basic facilities”.
 
 “Today we launched the protest again to make our voices heard against the dictatorial attitude of the school. On one hand, the management is charging so much as part of development and annual fee every year, while on the other hand they don’t even have basic facilities. Our children reel under humid conditions while the principal’s room and reception room have ACs,” said Mahesh, a parent.
 
 Rajdeep Kaur, another parent who is one of the organizers of the protests, said the school had promised them that it will give concession in its July fees.
 
 “April 24 was the last time we held any protests,” she said. “Then the school offered us a deal. It asked us to end the agitation and in return it will offer us concession in July fees. But we have been trying to get in touch with them for so long. They are inaccessible. None of them is willing to talk to us.”
 
 After holding the protest for over two hours, the parents went to meet divisional commissioner  , who was not there in his office.
 
 When TOI reached Suresh, he said , “I had taken cognizance of the grievance registered by the parents and launched an audit last week.”
 
 But Suresh said that the school was not co-operating in the auditing process. “They are not cooperating with us. We need access to some accounts which they are not giving. We will raise the issue with the school and if it doesn’t cooperate, we will have to pass an interim order against it.” 
 
 Regarding the parents’ allegation of lack of facilities, Suresh said, “I am the chairman of Fee and Fund Regulatory Committee. That is not my mandate.” Despite repeated attempts, Blue Bells management could not be contacted.
 
