CHENNAI: When more than 100 campus residents tested positive for dengue last year, Greater   and the state public health department warned IIT-Madras about an impending crisis. Wooded but with pockets of huge buildings, the 600-acre campus is a haven for mosquitoes and when the corporation was not satisfied with the IIT’s vector control measures, it sent reminders and notices. After the paperwork yielded no results, the civic body conducted a clean-up and fogging, and slapped Rs 1 lakh as ‘charge’ on IIT-M for its failure to prevent mosquitoes from breeding on the campus.

 The institute is yet to reply to that notice or pay, and the civic authority too did not follow up until a student,  , died of dengue last week. “We will be meet the institute director soon for further discussion,” said a senior corporation official.
 
 On the Rs 1 lakh ‘charge’, the official said, “We had to do it because we found that people living around the institute were affected. But we had to spend our manpower and fuel. We have asked them to pay for this.”
 
 Although the campus management did not pay, this year, officials collected Rs 60,000 as fine slapped on the contractors who have undertaken construction work on the campus. “The contractors dumped debris and failed to prevent mosquito breeding,” the official said.
 
  director Bhaskar   said he could not recall details of the Rs1 lakh notice, but added that it was challenging to keep the campus free from mosquitoes. “We have so many contract workers and labourers so there is a possibility of a lot of discarded material which can be a potential danger [by letting mosquitoes breed],” Ramamurthi said. “One contractor last year threw away coconut shells thinking they were organic. Two weeks later, we found students in the nearby hostel were sick,” he said.
 
 “We are working on what the corporation has said but sometimes it is difficult to educate everyone who comes to the campus to be careful. We are telling our faculty and students to be sensitive to this issue than outside given the environment. Even two weeks earlier, emails had been sent asking students regarding health safety,” Ramamurthi said.
 
 Ramamurthi said monkeys too add to the menace for which IIT has made monkey proof dustbins but its usage was dependent on how sensitive the residents were. “We all have a lesson to learn from this but compliance in percentages is not enough. Even if 5% of the population is not sensitive to these things, it can cause problems,” he said.
 
 Public health officials said every time there was a spike in dengue cases on the IIT campus, they were called in for vector control measures. In 2016, there were more than 100 cases of dengue among the residents. “We had organised several awareness on campus. But once they tide over the crisis, the importance of vector control is forgotten,” said director of public health Dr K Kolandaisamy.
 
 Entomologists visiting the campus said they had spotted Aedes albopictus, a species of mosquitoes commonly seen in bamboo stumps and tree holes, adapting itself to the water cans and discarded tyres on the campus. Albopictus is found in forests, but on IIT campus entomologists found that these mosquitoes breed along with Aedes-aegypti in large water tanks left open for animals. Entomologists say albopictus is competing with aegypti in urban areas and poses a major challenge to public health because of its adaptability.
 
 “Dengue is no more a seasonal disease because we give mosquitoes a chance to breed during all seasons. With several construction activities and trees, the IIT-M campus is a fine breeding ground,” said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan.
 
