Trichy: The second official   in Manapparai, one of the hotspots of the traditional bull-taming sport in the state, was witnessed at Kalingapatti village on Friday. Thanks to the stringent measures put in place, the event witnessed only one incident of a mild injury to a bull tamer.

 Kalingapatti wore a festive look for the enthusiastic sport though the village committee used to conduct it as part of the festival for Mariamman temple. In Friday’s jallikattu, conducted after a gap of a few years following the ban, 147 bulls were unleashed to test the might of 175 bull tamers. The bulls were brought from Thanjavur, Pudukkottai, Madurai, Dindigul, Theni, Ariyalur, Salem, Sivagangai, Perambalur, Karur.
 
 The jallikattu commenced around 10 am with the bulls being released one by one onto the ground through the vadivasal. With the district administration ensuring total compliance of the guidelines, the event saw only one man getting injured. Revenue divisional officer (RDO) Srirangam AG Rajarajan attributed the limited injuries to implementation of the safety measures. “The committee was advised to follow the regular norms stipulated for jallikattu. They took the measures and the administration educated the bull tamers accordingly thus reducing the injuries,” Rajarajan told TOI .
 
 Initially, both the health and animal husbandry departments allowed the bulls and tamers after thoroughly checking their health condition. The health department disallowed 10 bull tamers to participate in the event citing their weak health. The veterinarians rejected 11 bulls on the grounds that they were below the age of two years.
 
 “As per the guidelines, the bulls should be above two years of age. Likewise, some bulls would have mutilated ears and tail injury which will also disqualify them. In today’s event, they were rejected on age grounds,” said joint director of animal husbandry, Trichy Dr S Rajendran. 
 
 Impressed by the unbeatable performance of a bull from Pudukkottai, district collector Dr KS Palanisamy rewarded its owner Rs 1,000 in Kalingapatti. In Manapparai area, this was the second jallikattu after the event in Karunkulam recently. Jallikattu is scheduled to be held in Manjampatti near Manapparai too. Two more villages, Rayampatti and Muthappudaiyanpatti, have applied for permission from the district administration for conducting the sport. Malaiyakovil in Pudukkottai district was another venue for jallikattu which left 28 bull tamers injured on Friday. A total of 111 bulls were unleashed at the event.
 
 R.Baskar
 
 R.Baskar
 
 
