NEW DELHI:   chief   isn’t happy with his new team. Some of his key associates have been left out, and sources say he has asked the BJP leadership to make space for some people who have been helping him. 

 Tiwari wants them to be appointed as vice-presidents and general secretaries. “During Harsh Vardhan and Vijay Goel’s tenures as party chief, there were close to 10 VPs and secretaries,” said a senior party leader.
 
 The newly announced Delhi BJP team has eight VPs and as many secretaries. Though it was Tiwari who had announced the list, it had the imprint of Union minister   as several of his key aides were included in the team. Tiwari, said sources, had little say in choosing his team as he is relatively new to the organisational setup. The 35-member executive team, announced on Sunday, supposedly includes people with controversial track records or who were not actively involved in the last three elections. 
 
 Ever since Tiwari took over as state chief, he has been reaching out to people living in slum clusters, which are a vote bank of AAP. A team of people has been assisting him in organising night stays in slums, rallies in unauthorised colonies etc. 
 
 A major issue with the team is the poor representation of Poorvanchalis. Party members from that community were hoping to get key positions. Yet only two Poorvanchali faces made it, including Abhay Verma, who has been part of the state team for the past four terms.
 
 Another issue is the under-representation of all areas of Delhi in the list. For the first time, four people from the same district have been selected —former north corporation mayor Ravinder Gupta, councillor Rajesh Bhatia, Pawan Monga and Rajesh Lavadia are from Karol Bagh district. 
 
 Gupta’s elevation to the post of general secretary in party has raised eyebrows due to his controversial tenure as mayor. He had contested as an independent after being denied a ticket by BJP in the 2002 municipal elections.
 
 BJP members also said that the party has ignored its Sikh leadership, as it appointed Sadar Kulwant Singh Baath of SAD (Badal) as one of the eight VPs.
 
