KOLKATA:   CEO (eastern region) Dr   has put in her papers on Thursday morning, setting speculation rife that her move was a sequel to the hospital’s desperate bid to make peace with the   government following the recent  .

 Basu tendered her resignation through email, as well as fax, to the hospital. It was accepted in the hospital board meeting. Basu, however, did not respond when TOI tried to contact her.
 
 Apollo Group director (southern region) Dr N Satyabhama has taken additional charge of the eastern region. Meanwhile Rana Dasgupta, COO of   Gleneagles Hospitals, has been elevated as CEO of the Kolkata facility.
 
 A doctor with specialisation in gynaecology and obstetrics, Basu is among the pioneers who have taken up health management or hospital administration as her career. During her stint in hospital management, Basu was at the helm of many private hospitals, Apollo Gleneagles Hospital, Kolkata, being the latest.
 
 Things turned worse for the hospital following the charge of overbilling and inhuman behaviour towards Howrah accident victim Sanjay Roy’s family, with former transport minister Madan Mitra targeting Basu for all the ills while she was abroad. Even as Mitra’s offensive didn’t curry favour with the ruling Trinamool, chief minister Mamata Banerjee didn’t take the family’s plight lightly. The CM gave a piece of her mind to private hospitals in a meeting held at Town Hall on February 22, where she accused private hospitals of fleecing patients without naming Apollo.
 
 The ball had begun to roll since then. The health department set up a probe panel to look into the charge slapped against the hospital and the Phoolbagan police initiated a case against the hospital. The victim’s widow refused to take back the money, including fixed deposit documents and property deeds the family was forced to submit to meet the hospital bills while Roy was under treatment.
 
 Caught in a fix, Apollo officials from Chennai flew to Kolkata on Monday to do the fire fighting. There has been a series of board meetings since then and insiders say that bringing change in leadership for its Kolkata unit featured in those meetings.
 
 On Thursday, the hospital came out with a formal statement that said: “Committing its responsibility of healthcare services to the people of Bengal and respecting the advices of CM Mamata Banerjee, the Apollo management is taking positive steps. It is also informed that Dr Rupali Basu has resigned.”
 
 
