There’s a revolution brewing. And this one’s on two hot wheels! Come August, a motley group of women from different parts of Mumbai will get together and ride into the mountainous terrain of Ladakh on their motorbikes. When you think of bikes, you picturise brawny men, but this is refreshingly different. The route taken by the bikers on their expedition has so far been mostly explored by men. Now, around 20 women — some who have never even been on a bicycle before — will conquer their fears and go on an adventure of a lifetime, to break stereotype. On a Sunday morning, Bombay Times caught them on the green stretch at   in Goregaon as they revved up their bikes and showed off some swag. 

 
  
  
 What’s prompting these women — homemakers, corporate executives and businesswomen — to go  ? For some it’s just the idea of feeling empowered while for others, it was one of the things on their bucket list. “Because YOLO (You Only Live Once),” laughs Zalak Savla, a 33-year-old chartered accountant from Santacruz. “I have never ridden a bike, so on the first day, I thought that I won’t be able to balance. But when I saw a few videos, I realised I too can do this and here I am. I learnt it in two days and now, I feel like I can conquer the world. I feel liberated and free,” she says. 
  Investment banker Manisha Priyadarshan, who hails from Cuttack, adds, “When I told a few male friends about my plans, they were astonished and retorted, ‘You will ride a bike on the mountains?’ That made me ask myself, ‘Why can’t a woman ride a bike?’ Pilots are ladies, too, aren’t they?” She Manisha adds, “Then why do people think bikes are for men and scooters and cars are okay for women?” Was it tough to learn biking? “No, I picked it up in a few hours, it’s all in the mind. Once you have understood the weight of the bike (it’s about 185 kilos), you start to have fun with it,” she says. 
  Shunyashree Badrapur (28), an assistant engineer looking into city infrastructure, got fed up of being the pillion rider with colleagues. “We often go for short biking trips around Mumbai and I am always seated at the back. I sent them a video of me during the biker boot camp and they were shocked. Now, the guys are asking me to lead the group,” she says. And for 29-year-old Lubna Mojawala, who creates digital maps, biking in the North with the rest of the women will translate into a personal and work-related goal. “I’ve been creating maps for high-end cars and now with this trip, I’m going to plot my own journey on a map,” she says.
 
  
  
 Judging by the turnout for the first such training session in Mumbai, it looks like the sport will attract more women in the city.  , who dropped his international bank job to start a company that creates   expeditions, says it’s heartening to see women take up biking. “In the West, it’s not uncommon for women to ride superbikes. But in India, biking is so much harder as people associate it with the idea of female expression and independence, so it’s a taboo for those who can’t understand these notions.” He also talks about how the negativity also largely came from women themselves. “The first thought is, ‘I can’t do it’ or ‘the bike is too heavy for me’. After a few camps, however, we floated the idea of training for a serious ride. It was surprising how many women showed interest in this.” 
  For these ladies, getting here wasn’t easy at all. Recalls Zalak, “My parents never let me ride even a cycle so to finally get them to say yes for a bike is a big deal.” Lubna says it took her a long time to get her mother’s consent. “I come from a conservative background, so it was tough to get permission initially. However, after some persuasion, my parents agreed.” For other women, support came more easily. “It was my husband who dropped me off at the training camp,” says 35-year-old Guddi Rawat, who works at an analytics company. “We bought a bike a year ago and whenever we took road trips, he’d keep saying, ‘If you knew how to ride, you could have taken over the wheel’. Now, I can do that,” she grins. Arshi Nair, a homemaker, reveals that after she showed her training video to her family, her mother-in-law sent her chocolates. “It was such a proud moment for me,” she says.
 
 
  
  
 Post a gruelling weekend training session that the group undertakes, it’s time for bonhomie and laughter. And the gals are not going to stop just at this destination. “We plan to meet every Sunday morning and do breakfast rides around Mumbai,” says avid biker  . “When you ride, it’s as though all your inhibitions disappear. The whole feeling of cruising on an open road with the wind hitting your face is unmatchable, so I hope many women try this out. Let’s build a great community,” says Jennifer Lucien, a choreographer from Andheri. “We hadn’t met before, but we gelled so well that it was like we had known each other for a long time. You can say that the bikes have made our bond better,” smiles Arshi.
 
 
 
 
