CHANDIGARH: Scared of getting arrested after they were caught  , three minor boys jumped into a storm drain in Sector 26 here on Saturday to evade the owner of the shop they burgled. What followed was sheer drama, with the police calling in reinforcements, the parents of the boys, and even the fire brigade to persuade them to come out.

 The minors came out after more than an hour and only on an assurance by the police that they would not take any action against them. By the end of the entire episode, a DSP-rank officer, two SHOs, extra police force, two fire engines, and a large crowd had gathered at the spot. Even the boys’ parents were summoned to assure the trio that they would be spared.
 
 The stolen items included cigarette packs and bidi rolls. No case has been registered against the boys for committing theft or jumping into the storm drain. None of them has been injured.
 
 In his statement to the police, the shopkeeper,  , said he had a cigarette shop in Sector 26 and that he came to know of the theft when a customer came, and he could not find cigarette packs that he had kept in a place in the morning. He said another shopkeeper told him that the three boys had run away with the tobacco products.
 
 All three were caught in a   camera installed nearby. Then, Ashish took his scooter and tracked down the boys. When they noticed that Ashish was following them, the boys jumped into the storm drain. When Ashish tried to enter it, they threw stones at him. Though Ashish assured them he would not call the police if they return the goods, they did not come out.
 
 Soon after, Ashish phoned the police, following which the SHOs of Sector 26 and IT Park police stations reached the spot and requested the boys to come out. They phoned the fire department for help and, in the meantime, DSP (crime)   also reached the spot.
 
 Fearing that the boys could die of inhaling a poisonous gas, police contacted their parents and assured the three that nobody would say anything to them. After spending more than an hour in the storm drain, the three came out. Later, police noted down all details of the boys and their families, and released them after a warning not to steal in future.
 
