PATNA: Summer, they say, is one of the most popular   because people have a lot of options in  . They also have the freedom to make unique, fun and colourful choices. To make weddings pleasant, planners in the city are coming up with cool ideas.

 Atul Pancham, public relation officer of an event management firm in Bandar Bagicha, said people are opting for blue-coloured themes such as aqua and peacock. “We are trying to make open-air   arrangements. In case of pavilions or tents, we are installing   towers and hangers,” he added. 
 
 As far as food is concerned, people prefer light food. Mocktails are also well-loved.
 
 “Clients prefer indoor venues for summer weddings. However, outdoor wedding is the only option for larger crowd. In such cases, we install AC towers or coolers depending on the budget. As the mercury is soaring these days, live counters for mocktails and fruits are finding many takers,” said Harsh Modi, a wedding planner from Patna, adding liquid sweets are in high demand. “Liquid sweets are being brought here from places like Kolkata and Varanasi,” Modi added. “Natural ice creams made from fruits are being preferred over the usual flavours,” he added.
 
 Not only venue and food, even makeup is also being done keeping in mind the weather. Irshad Khan, makeup artist at a salon on Fraser Road, said due to excessive sweating in summer months, waterproof makeup is preferred by people. “We normally utilise air brushing technique as this is light and doesn’t need a touch up every two hours,” said Khan. 
 
 He added brides-to-be go for hair spa and anti-tanning treatment before the wedding. “Hydration and fruit spas are also a favourite a day before the wedding to relax those jittery nerves. Grooms-to-be are mostly treated for anti-tanning,” he added.
 
 Reena Rani, makeup artist at a Boring Road-based salon, said brides are mostly given water-based facials and waterproof makeup in summer. “We also suggest the brides to drink a lot of water and juices, especially coconut water, which is good for the skin. Water-based fruits should also be consumed to keep the skin hydrated and give it a radiant glow on the day of the wedding,” she added.
 
