MUMBAI: The Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) cyber police station busted an online friendship club, which under the pretext of offering a physical relationship with the opposite sex, duped 2,000 persons hoping to become members over the last two years. Police said there may be more victims as the charge for becoming a member is so meagre that many would prefer to avoid filing a complaint for fear of being humiliated.

 Police arrested Saquib Malik Courtwala, Girish Jaiswal, Kalpesh Vishwakarma, Arjun Kanojia and Sharik Afzal Khan and seized 16 hard disks, three laptops and 37 mobile phones used in the  . The laptops had obscene photographs of models and celebrities. Police said the accused would advertise online that top   artistes, college girls, sports club members, NRI and middle-aged women were wanting to be friends through their club and lure people to become members for Rs999. The accused would tell the victims to pay the money to a   account. Members would then be told to wait for a month. “They would then switch off the mobile number and Paytm account, and the victim for fear of being humiliated if he filed a complaint, would never ever approach police,” said senior inspector Neeta Phadke.
 
 The account, police said, was maintained by a jeweller, Vrushank Jain, who would give gold coins to the accused. Police said that once the account reached a substantial amount, the accused would close it and open another one. Police are probing if the jeweller is involved in the racket.
 
 The five have been booked under section 420 (cheating) of the IPC and under section 67 of the Information Technology Act. They were produced before the metropolitan magistrate’s court, which remanded them to police custody till April 10. Police said the arrests would increase as more people are involved and possibly spread across major cities.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Akhilesh Singh said they received a tip-off about the racket. “With technical help, we raided a building at Masjid Bunder on P D’Mello Road and arrested Courtwala. He spilled the beans on his colleagues and two offices in the building,” said Singh. 
 
 Police are probing if the gang only duped people or were also involved in a prostitution racket.
 
