GHAZIABAD: A 28-year-old year resident of Dasna was arrested on Saturday for allegedly killing his 40-year-old lover around three weeks ago. It is suspected that the accused also married the deceased as police have recovered a nikahnama (muslim marriage certificate) from the woman’s bag.

 The accused has been identified as Naeem Khan (28). Police found the partially decomposed body of Saroj alias Pinky from her rented accommodation in Sangam Vihar, Khora Colony, on April 15, which she shared with the Naeem.
 
 The accused was at large ever since the body was recovered. He was arrested with the help of the marriage document recovered from the woman’s bag. "It was difficult to trace out his identity. He had hatched a meticulous plot of changing his name and bringing the woman to an unknown location, along with him, with an intention of murdering her. But a nikahnama was found from the woman's bag, which clearly specified his real name and address. So we nabbed him on Saturday night," said Jai Prakash Chaubey, SHO, Khora Police Station. 
 
 Police also contacted deceased’s son, Ravi, after finding his number from a diary that was recovered from the woman's belongings for investigations. The deceased was earlier married to one Chandra Bhushan, a resident of Mugal Sarai in Chandauli. The accused was also married and has five kids.
 
 Police said Saroj and Naeem met a few months ago and had an ‘extra-marital affair’. However, after their relationship turned sour over time, the accused recently rented a room in Sangam Vihar with Saroj with an intent to kill her.
 
 "Naeem said that they had started fighting a lot. Saroj did not allow Naeem to meet his wife and kids and he was frustrated. On April 11, along with the victim, he rented a house in Sangam Vihar but kept his identity a secret," added Chaubey. 
 
 On the night of April 12, the accused killed the victim by smashing her head on the ground. He later strangled her with a piece of cloth, said police. "After killing her, the accused ran away from the spot. The victim's body was found on April 15, by the neighbours who became curious about her sudden disappearance," said a police official. 
 
 An FIR under Section 302 (Punishment for Murder) has been filed against the accused in Khora Police Station and the accused has been sent to judicial custody. 
 
 
