GURUGRAM: Illegally parked Ola   on Shankar Road are causing great inconvenience to the businessmen and the office goers in the   area, who have complained about the huge traffic jam caused by them. 

 According to daily commuters, the cabs parked on the road take up almost half of the roads causing massive snarls during office hours in the area.
 
 “These cabs have made a complete mess of the full stretch and not only traffic jams, these taxis create a lot of chaos for the people working in the offices in this area,” said Animesh Saxena, a businessman. 
 
 Saxena said sometimes the number of   cabs parked in the area crosses hundred. Ola has its office in Udyog Vihar.
 
 “Starting from the liquor vend on Shankar Road, there are multiple cabs eating up almost half of the road,” said K B Bathla, a businessman.
 
 Bathla said traffic jam caused by the congestion increases the transit time from   Phase-3 to NH-8 to an hour whereas normally it would have only taken a minute.
 
 When contacted, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) officials said they have also observed the   and are planning to take it up with the traffic police personnel.
 
 “We have spent lakhs to take up the road widening work in various parts of the industrial estate and   ends putting all that money and work to waste,” said a senior HSIIDC official from Gurgaon.
 
 Gurgaon traffic police accepted that illegal parking in the area is a cause of concern and promised that they will soon find a way out to put an end to the menace.
 
 “We will conduct a campaign to stop illegal parking in the area,” said Balbir Singh, DCP (traffic).
 
 A multi-level parking project in Udyog Vihar had been proposed five years back and after multiple developments over the last few years, it is still non-existent on the ground. The total cost of the project was estimated to Rs 90-100 crore by HSIIDC.
 
 TOI reached out to Ola for a response, but the company is yet to revert. TOI will publish the response of the company when it does.
 
 
