NEW DELHI: It cannot have been an easy task given that paedophile   confessed to 500 criminal acts over a dozen years, but Delhi Police has now pinpointed 58 of them, greatly increasing the chances of the sexual predator being put behind bars for life.

 Only 15 cases of children being sexually assaulted by Rastogi were registered with the cops. Probe revealed that since 2004, Rastogi was detained thrice at police stations in Uttarkhand, UP and Delhi, but obtained release easily enough. After 2008, the 38-year-old had reduced his forays into Delhi when the laws regarding sexual assaults were strengthened. 
 
 The findings showed that while five cases were registered in east Delhi between 2004 and 2017, two incidents were reported from Udhampur, two from Rampur and three from Ghaziabad. In the same period, three cases were documented in Rudrapur in Uttrakhand. 
 
 Police said they had contacted the victims in three other cases that have surfaced in Delhi and requested them register a police complaint. A joint police team comprising cops from Delhi, Uttarakhand and UP is now trying to convince victims of the identified incidents to register complaints to ensure a watertight case against Rastogi. “We will seek Rastogi’s police custody if the charges against him are strong enough,” said Omvir Singh Bishnoi, DCP (East).
 
 Cops had zeroed in on the 58 incidents by tallying the identity of the victims with the place and time of the incident. Investigators from the three states are corroborating the statements given by the victims to find a common thread. Police said that so far, the victims had identified Rastogi through his clothes, among them a red striped shirt that he favoured during his nefarious outings.
 
 After his arrest last Saturday, Rastogi claimed that he had first committed a sexual crime while living in Delhi with his family, the victim being a neighbour at the slum near Kalyanpuri. A case in this regard was registered in 2004 at the Ghazipur police station under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty). However, the law had permitted Rastogi to seek a bail from the police station itself. The cops are trying to trace the victim to convince her to record a fresh statement.
 
 Police are pushing for a life sentence for the serial offender. He had been detained several times under Section 107/151 of the CrPC (breach of peace and tranquillity of an area; preventing commission of cognisable crime) for threatening to kill the family members of victims in Rudrapur and Udhampur. The cops are also probing the claim of a victim in   that Rastogi owned a pistol which he used to threaten to kill her.
 
