JAIPUR: Noted Bollywood lyricist and poet   said that incidents of rape and molestation cannot be blamed on Westernisation but deep socio-economic divisions in the country which creates a sense of alienation among deprived sections of the country.

 Speaking at the Jaipur Literature Festival ( ) on Sunday, Akhtar said people wrongly attributed incidents like Bangalore molestation on the influence of Western culture, “Segregated societies where people live in inhuman conditions create anger and perversions. Today, the have-nots are unhappy with the treatment meted out to them,” he said.
 
 The poet also made a reference to the upbringing of boys in Indian families. “In our country, a boy enters adulthood without ever having spoken a word to any woman, except his sister and mother,” he said.
 
 Speaking about the transformation of female characters in Bollywood after the ‘angry young man’ phase, Akhtar praised actor Katrina Kaif’s role as Laila in the movie, ‘Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara’.
 
 “Long gone are the days of a meek and weak ‘adarsh nari,’ we now have characters like that of Laila, she is a scuba driver, single, independent and happy. Can you imagine that 60 years ago,” he asked.
 
 Akhtar said that Hindi movies were going through a period of interesting transformation in scripts and dialogues. “The women of this generation are independent, inquisitive and eager to explore the world, and new movies like ‘Piku’ echoes their voices,” he said.
 
 Akhtar said that the character of ‘Piku,’ played by Deepika Padukone, was a ‘milestone’ in Hindi films, as for the first time a female character supersedes two male actor played by legendary actors like Amitabh Bachchan and Irrfan Khan.
 
 Replying to a question on songs in Hindi movies, Akhtar lamented the diminishing role of songs in scripts. “Today’s generation grew up on Hollywood movies. They find songs artificial and unrealistic, but look at the latest Hollywood movie like ‘La La Land’ where dance and songs have been so beautifully shown,” he said.
 
 
