NEW DELHI: A major disaster was averted as the first floor of a section of a building in   collapsed in the early hours of Thursday, raising concerns about safety in this heritage zone. The roof, followed by a side wall in the front, of the affected floor -- above Jain Book Agency and other shops — collapsed at 1.45 am, leaving a huge gaping hole in the facade. Eyewitnesses claimed a few men had been working on the floor minutes before the incident.

 The area -- a major shopping and eating out destination -- teems with people and vendors during the day. There could have been casualties if the incident had happened when the market is open.
 
 Till late at night, police claimed they had not been able to trace the owner. The reason behind the collapse is also not clear yet. The area has been cordoned off and the shops in this stretch -- selling shoes, readymade garments and stationery goods -- and a salon declared out of bounds. The shop owners said they have been asked not to go near the building as it is now quite vulnerable. The debris is precariously jutting out from the floor.
 
 Police said they reached the spot soon after the incident and the fire brigade was informed. Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot. “The section of the building that collapsed was vacant for a long time and no person was present inside at the time of collapse,” said a Delhi Fire Services official.
 
 A security guard present in the building at the time of the incident escaped unhurt. “I had gone to a washroom nearby, minutes before the floor collapsed. Had I been there, I would have been hurt too,” said the guard, Raj Bahadur.
 
 Looks Unisex Salon, which shares a common wall with the affected section, stated the common wall had developed a few cracks but they had suffered no damage.
 
 “We have been asked to stay away from the building and our shops have been sealed. We have no clue when we will be allowed to resume work,” said Vimal Vahan Jain, owner of Jain Book Depot. “There will be losses but safety comes first. I hope what has happened today doesn’t recur.”
 
 The operation to clear the site by the fire department continued till late in the morning. Fire officials said that three fire tenders were sent back after an hour and one vehicle was stationed to handle any emergency. Later in the morning, senior fire officials and civil engineers reached the spot to take stock of the situation. Some other walls and the floor were also damaged in the collapse.
 
 “We have registered a case under section 336 (endangering lives or personal safety of others) and have started investigating the matter,” said Braja Kishore Singh, deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi). 
 
 A senior official of   said a detailed survey will be conducted across Connaught Place to check the structural stability of old buildings. “The department will submit a preliminary report on the incident and we will initiate action after that,” said the official. “The Council is planning to come up with a new policy. At present, no major alterations can be made to the heritage buildings without seeking permission from the heritage committee under the bylaws. We are working on a policy that would enable the council to take up alteration work in old buildings whenever required.”
 
 He said the council had given a notice to the owner of the property but maintenance work has to be done by the owner. “This section of the building was lying vacant for the past few months. NDMC has nothing to do with maintenance,” said a senior official.
 
 However, the traders association claimed they have written to NDMC several times but no action has been initiated to keep a check on old buildings. “The building is quite old and it cannot take too much of load. We have written several times to NDMC on the issue of structural stability of buildings but they have done nothing about it. Licences have been issued to new shops and eateries without even inspecting the stability of these buildings. While the owner is indeed responsible for maintenance of the property, it is NDMC’s job to ensure safety of a building,” said Atul Bhargava, president of Connaught Place market association.
 
 
