Gurgaon: The district bar association of Nuh (Mewat) has accused Alwar police of botching up facts in the FIR registered in the murder of Jaisinghpur villager Pehlu Khan, who was lynched by gau rakshaks in Alwar a few days ago. The association has decided to move to the Prime Minister, seeking justice for the family of Pehlu Khan, who was killed after allegedly being mistaken as a cow smuggler. They have alleged Alwar police meddled with facts while registering the FIRs, to deny the victims justice.

 The association said was Pehlu presumed to be a cow smuggler merely because he is a Muslim. The family of the deceased claimed their statements were not even recorded by police.
 
 “My father was the sole bread-earner for our family of eight. Occasionally, we’d sell milch cows to make the extra buck. We had gone to the Jaipur cattle fair along with neighbours Arif and Azmat. We bought cows and calves there, and were going to Tapukara in Alwar district to sell them to our aunt. We expected to earn some profit, but in the end, lost our father,” said Altaf Khan (23), Pehlu’s elder son. 
 
 He continued, “We were attacked. All five had to be taken to hospital. I can’t say much about the FIR, because no statements were recorded, nor were we called to the police station, and no cop visited us. Neither Rajasthan government nor Haryana government cared to even sympathise with us or extend help.” 
 
 Azmat, another victim, said, “I had gone with Pehlu to see how to choose and buy the best cattle, whether it be for selling or milking. We aren’t smugglers or beef eaters. We sell milk to small dairies. After this, I’m scared of the sight of milk. Initially, I didn’t even know if my name was in the FIR, even though I was beaten up and had to be given medical assistance in hospital. Police have not asked me anything. It was lawyers who told me my name doesn’t appear in the FIR.”
 
 Noordeen Noor, former president of the Nuh district bar association, said, “There were five people who were attacked, but the FIR mentions only three. The deceased Pehlu and his two sons are there, but there is no mention of the two other men who accompanied them. The video shows all five being attacked, but police ignored that. Secondly, the victims insist they were going to Tapukara to sell the animals to their relatives. The spot where the incident took place was 35km from the Haryana border, yet FIR mentions they were driving to Mewat, implying they were smuggling cattle. The pick-up driver, a Hindu, was let off by the mob, proving they were driven by a communal motive, not maintenance of law. We’re writing to the Prime Minister to intervene, as such lynchings of Muslims is becoming commonplace here.”
 
 “The FIR was registered following all legal procedures. But if there is still any allegation about it, we’ll investigate that matter,” said Rahul Prakash, SP (Alwar). He added, “If anyone has anything to say, they are welcome to do so. The investigation is being carried out objectively and impartially.” 
 
 
