  : The   (OHRC) on Wednesday sought a report from   on the status of investigation in the death of engineering student   (Rishi), who had passed away under mysterious circumstances in May last year. 

 The OHRC has directed the DCP to submit the status report on the probe within three weeks. It also wanted to know whether a final report has been submitted in the matter in the court or not.
 
 The opposition parties have alleged that Bhubaneswar mayor Anant Jena had a role to play in Rishi's death.
 
 The direction came in response to a petition filed by a human rights campaigner Akhand seeking an independent probe into the matter by the commission.
 
 Not happy with the police probe, Akhand has urged OHRC to intervene. The petitioner has alleged that the police have not been investigating the matter properly. However, the commission made it clear it has no jurisdiction to direct the police to inquire into the matter in a particular manner and has refused to interfere in probe.
 
 Rishi, a Bhubaneswar-based engineering student, was known to the mayor and had allegedly died of drug overdose on May 5. 
 
 However, the opposition parties have alleged that Rishi had come to know about the alleged sexual escapades of the mayor and had seen a video clip which reportedly had Jena in a compromising position with a woman who was apparently the mother of his girlfriend. 
 
 "There are many unanswered questions in Rishi's death and it seems the police are intentionally not probing the matter properly," alleged the petitioner. 
 
 "Rishi's viscera was sent for forensic examination almost seven months after his death and that to only after the alleged sex scandal of the mayor broke out. Till now, the police have not yet questioned the mayor in the case which raises questions over the probe process," Akhand alleged. He has prayed the commission to provide justice to the deceased's family by unravelling the truth behind his death.
 
  Opposition parties the BJP and the   have also alleged that the police have been trying to hush up investigation into Rishi's death since a BJD leader is involved in it. The opposition parties have been demanding a CBI probe into the sex scandal and Rishi's death.
 
 
