Like-minded people are getting together to revive the lost art of writing letters by hand to make a difference. These are addressed to strangers. Before you jump to conclusions thinking that this is some kind of competition to online dating trends, let’s make it clear that these are notes of hope, peace and inspiration. Called the  , we headed to one such pop-up in the city on a rainy day. It felt like being in a library, where everyone had their heads bent low to write a letter of goodwill.
 Volunteers of the Mumbai chapter, Grafleen D’Souza and Shreya Shah, were ready with letter requests and a short briefing about the guidelines on writing the letters. “We provide basic, yet pretty stationery like paper and pens. But if anyone wants to add more colour, then they can get along stickers, coloured pens, etc. We give them tips on how to address a particular issue. At the end of it, we screen all the letters to avoid controversial bits, before we post them,” informs Grafleen.
 
 
 
 Dubai-based Sonia Parekh started this initiative with her friend Chandni Sawlani in 2012. Sonia recalls, “We had a love letter-writing party, where people were invited to write letters of love and kindness to people going through a tough time. The response was phenomenal and it brought us all together for a larger purpose. We realised the power of handwritten letters and decided to keep it going; to remind people to smile and believe in the existence of love and kindness in the world.”
 In a span of three years, they have covered 14 cities all over the world, including Mumbai, Delhi, Pune, Chennai, Goa, Kochi, Trivandrum, Jaipur, Rajkot in India.
  Says Shreya, “From all the Indian cities that we covered, we noticed that people from Mumbai like to write a lot, so we will soon have another one this month.”
 
 
 
 Thirteen and enthusiastic, Aarti K came to the letter writing circle with her teacher Ravikumar Konathala and a group of underprivileged children from Dharavi. Not new to letter writing, she says, “Apart from the letter writing exercises in school, I write letters to my mom. I write words of confidence to her whenever she is sad and also to express my love for her.”
 College students Dhvani Shah and Khushi Kothari, still in their teens, like to indulge in creativity when they write, so they added colours to their letters. Says Khushi, “I usually write notes to my parents and friends and hand-deliver it to them during special occasions like birthdays just to see them smile. Writing letters to a stranger also turned out to be a good experience as I got to share what I am to the world,”she says. 
 
 
 
 Letter writers usually take up an issue that they have been through themselves. Says Krishna, a copywriter, “I have been into depression myself, so I understand and want to tell them that they are not alone and that there are people out there who can help them through it. Whenever my comments were appreciated online, I would feel good and those words soothed my heart. I feel these letters of mine will do the same thing to the receiver.”
 Dhvani could relate to issues faced by a collegian. “I chose to write to this college student, who’s stressed about studies. I want to tell her that failing in an exam or for that matter, anything in life, is not the end. If you never give up, you can achieve what you want.” Adds Hitakshi Kotian, an HR professional, “Sometimes we all know the answers to our problems, but it becomes clearer when it comes from a stranger.”
 
 
 
 Khushali K, a PR professional, feels that the exercise of writing letters to strangers makes you less self-centered. “We are busy dealing with issues in our life, but this gesture makes you realise that there others going through graver issues. So, what are we cribbing about? It is satisfying to know you have done something to bring a smile on someone’s face. Some things cannot be bought and this feeling is one of them,” she says.
 
 
 
 Though there are no monetary benefits involved, the tribe has been growing in numbers. As Khushi says, “Deeds done without any expectation always makes you feel good about it.”
 That was the main intention of creating this letter writing circle, shares Sonia. “There’s a beautiful quote that goes, ‘In giving, you receive’. There is happiness in store for both sides of the party, so bringing joy to others automatically gives you abundant joy.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
