CHANDIGARH: This two-time Congress legislator is turning out to be a real crowd puller during the ongoing campaign for the February 4 assembly elections. What is leaving voters of Ludhiana (Central) awe-struck is a “virtual mannequin” of the candidate. To add extra zing to his election campaign, Congress candidate Surinder Kumar Dawar has gone in for his virtual avatar, a cheaper variant of the 3-D holographic projection used by Prime Minister   in the Lok Sabha elections in 2014.

 Mounted on a van, the projection is creating much hype in Dawar’s Ludhiana (Central) constituency, especially among the younger crowds and the migrant population. It has been made by a Mumbai-based company and works on the formula of rear projection of the candidate’s life-size figure on an acrylic cut-out.
 
 Dawar told TOI, “This concept has been introduced for the first time in any state election campaign. I have been actively campaigning myself, but we decided to use this technology to make the campaign more attractive. That is how my campaign team came up with this idea.”
 
 “The projection is mounted on a campaign van and goes around the constituency after dusk. People are surprised to see it and make it a point to listen to the entire speech. The 3-D image gives the impression that Dawar is standing on a dais and speaking,” said Rishita Jindal, campaign manager for the Congress candidate.
 
 A spokesperson of Media Tricks, a Gujarat-based company that has prepared it, said that the technology used by Modi also used the concept of rear projection but on a thinner sheet. “This one is a more compact and cheaper technology. It uses the VSX technology. It is a step above and over the simple cut-outs used by politicians.”
 
 Meanwhile, many candidates are using technology to widen their reach and LED screens mounted on vehicles are being used to play messages of politicians. “This election, all key parties have refrained from holding too many large rallies due to demonetisation and strict vigil by the election commission. In such a scenario, candidates are doing door-to-door campaigning and using various technologies to playback their speeches at places they have already visited in the past,” added another candidate.
 
 Interestingly, the concept has been introduced towards the end of campaigning to ensure that the rivals do not get sufficient time to copy it.
 
