LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party’s original think tank, the man who wrote the party’s Constitution, also became the   of its second coming -- and Akhilesh’s final elevation -- on Sunday. 

 Ram Gopal Yadav, Mulayam’s cousin, often regarded as the go-to man for all important decisions -- from picking tickets probables, to making key organisation appointments and famously disallowing SP’s entry into the Bihar Mahagathbandhan -- has solidly backed chief minister Akhilesh through the prolonged family feud that spilt out into public domain in September last year.
 
 It began, initially, with Ram Gopal supporting Akhilesh’s decision to sack two ministers from his cabinet, and  , as UP chief secretary. Then, Ram Gopal had said it was the prerogative of the CM to take these decisions and that no one could question the dismissals. The Rajya Sabha member who expelled from the   in the middle of a raging family feud, had also squarely blamed party colleague Amar Singh for orchestrating the rift in the Yadav clan. For his loyalty to Akhilesh, Ram Gopal was sacked thrice in the past three months, even taking the blame for “working as part of a conspiracy in collusion with the Bharatiya Janata Party to weaken the SP”, a charge levelled against him by Shivpal Yadav. 
 
 But if Mulayam is famous for his U-turns, Ram Gopal was important for his unwavering stand; not only in his support of Akhilesh, but also in planning, meticulously, the path that would lead Akhilesh to unseating Mulayam, and to being anointed as national president of the Samajwadi Party. The January 1 convention, as well as the events leading up to it, were planned to perfection. In the months preceding the Grand Sunday, Ram Gopal spent days and months meeting with the Election Commission, and with legal experts to orchestrate the background preparations Akhilesh would need in case a split was necessetitated.
 
 And though Mulayam may call the January 1 convention unconstitutional, the party constitution -- which Ram Gopal wrote and knows like the proverbial back of his hand -- allows the general secretary to convene such a session if more than 40% of the party’s elected representatives demand it. Wading through the legalese may be difficult for most, but Ram Gopal also managed the toughest element of Sunday’s developments; getting SP vice president   to preside over the special convention, another clause in the SP constitution that mandates the presence of the vice president in the absence of the president. 
 
 Like any wily planner would, though, Ram Gopal’s master-stroke lay in this: the SP constitution does not lay down a procedure for impeaching its party president. With the backing of brute numbers, Ram Gopal has ultimately used the one gap he left out, to Akhilesh’s and his, advantage. 
 
 
