GURUGRAM/FARIDABAD: It has been 16 days since Billu (name changed), a nine-year-old boy who was rescued after reports of abuse at home, has gone missing.

 The   (CHC) in   was informed by an anonymous source that a nine-year-old, who was living in Lakkarpur village in Faridabad, was being abused by his older stepbrother and other family members. “We rescued the boy from his stepbrother’s home. His mother had left his father, remarried, and passed away a year back. Since then, he had been living with his stepbrother from his father’s earlier marriage,” said Sunita, the Child Helpline coordinator in Faridabad.
 
 According to a source close to the family, Billu was made to do the entire housework, and beaten up if he made mistakes. Days before his rescue, his stepbrother’s granddaughter — a baby fell and got hurt when Billu had taken her out to play. He was woken up at night and brutally beaten. 
 
 Child Helpline took him to Surajkund police station and interrogated him in the presence of cops and family members, where he said he was abused and did not wish to live with his stepbrother’s family any longer. 
 
 After completing formalities, the boy was shifted to a CHC shelter home — Child Care Institute, on January 27. On January 30, when the family was summoned to court for framing of charges, he went missing.
 
 The manager of the home, Bharat Hial, who also filed a complaint about the boy’s disappearance, said Billu could have jumped on to mounds of earth on the empty plot next to the home from the terrace and escaped. 
 
 “On the morning of January 30, after breakfast, the caretakers got busy sending other children to school. This is when Billu disappeared,” said Hial, speaking to TOI.“We have registered an FIR under Section 365 (kidnapping) of the IPC,” said Jai Kishan, SHO of Sector 31 police station in Faridabad. 
 
 Speaking of CHC’s parallel efforts to track Billu, Sunita said, “We have put out pictures of the boy at railway stations and other locations, contacted various CHC centres and sent them his photo for identification.”
 
 Billu’s neighbours are a worried lot. They had seen him face torture and abuse, and expressed hope for his safety. But they also expressed surprise how the nine-year-old, who never ran away despite being tortured at home, did so from a shelter home. One of them, who wished to remain anonymous, said, “I feel there’s something fishy. Before the court date, I overheard the stepbrother giving money to someone to get Billu back.”
 
 TOI has withheld the name of the boy as he is a minor.
 
 
