LUCKNOW: The native village of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, the man behind Bhartiya Janata Party’s ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’ mantra is set to become a  . He was born on September 25, 1916 in   of Mathura which would be developed under tourism department’s rural tourism scheme. 

 “The current year marks birth centenary of Pandit Deen Dayal, a philosopher and social thinker. Development of his native village is one of the many initiatives of the Union and state governments to mark the occasion. A team of experts and Mathura district magistrate have been asked to submit a detailed proposal so that requisite evaluation may be undertaken for funds sanction,” said Awanish Awasthi, principal secretary, Tourism UP. 
 
 Minister for tourism development in state, Rita Bahuguna Joshi visited Mathura last week and reviewed various projects for the region. “The list included Nagla Chandrabhan,” sources said. 
 
 Significance of the place may be gauged from the fact that Prime Minister Narendra Modi started the party’s campaign of 200 rallies and 5,000 public meetings from this place. In 2005, former prime minister and BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajyapee chose this place for a public meeting. 
 
 The scheme of rural tourism development is based on the idea that tourism growth potential can be harnessed as a strategy for rural development. The strategy appears significant, considering that 74% of India’s population resides in seven million villages.
 
 Industry experts said rural tourism was an emerging area of interest in the tourism sector. “The counter-urbanisation syndrome has given a special charm to villages,” said Manoj Dixit, former director, Institute of Tourism Studies, Lucknow University.
 
 Stating that Deen Dayal Upadhyaya propagated integral humanism (antyodaya or the rise of the last man in the queue), tourism officials are working on a plan that would include activities like improving the environment, hygiene, infrastructure like public toilets, drinking water kiosks and roads besides tourist amenities. 
 
 Sector experts feel that if marketed well, the place can attract tourists. “The village will attract tourists who already visit Vrindavan-Mathura and Agra in significant numbers,” said Prateek Hira, member Tour Operators Association of India.
 
 
