BENGALURU: Wednesday, January 11, marked five months since the   (BMTF) registered first information reports (FIRs) against 20 BBMP and   for allegedly approving building plans and issuing   for houses and apartments that encroached storm water drains in east Bengaluru.

 The filing of the FIRs followed demolition of several residential and commercial structures that had encroached drains. The encroachments were suspected to have caused heavy flooding in several localities in east Bengaluru, in the wake of heavy rain in early August 2016.
 
 The state government also initiated a departmental inquiry into the case, led by a special commissioner. However, not much progress appears to have happened in the investigation.
 
 The filing of FIRs against the babus raised hopes among citizens and civic groups, that this could be the forerunner for the establishment of the rule of law in Bengaluru. They also presumed that this action would deter the others and also help nail the big fish.
 
 “To start with, it took a lot of time to trace these officials as they were absconding in the first few weeks. Then they went to the high court. We could question them only after the court directed that they should cooperate with the investigation. But in the past few months, during questioning, the officials have doing nothing but pass the buck, saying they were not responsible for sanctioning plans. Some of them were questioned only once. Given the court order, we are not in a position to take them into custody and question them," said a senior officer with the BMTF.
 
 Even the departmental inquiry against the accused officials has not made any great headway as investigating officials are not able to gather any concrete evidence about the violations committed, said a source in the government.
 
 Asked about the official status of the case, BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad said investigation by the BMTF and special commissioner is still going on. “Officers facing allegations remain suspended from their jobs," he added.
 
 Another of ficial from the BMTF said some cases like this need intense questioning and investigation. “It will take time as we have to follow the rules. We can't make detentions unless it is absolutely necessary and also depends on the charges babus are facing. We've also found that a resurvey of the drains and properties in question need to be done to ascertain some information.W e can comment only after the chargesheet is filed," he added.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 Citizens gave a collective whoop of joy when BBMP engineers and officials were named in FIRs for their omissions and commissions, which led to encroachment of drains and eventual flooding in the city. Now, it appears the BMTF's bravura act has led to nothing. Not surprising. Two probes opened against the officials have made little headway. Ironically, it was house owners who were severely punished when their homes were demolished. As the legal process sputters along, the authorities should take the process forward and punish the officials instead of allowing them to go scot-free, and lose the faith of the people.
 
