PUNE: As many as 3,500 ongoing housing projects in the state were registered with the Maharashtra   Regulatory Authority ( ) on the last day on Monday, taking the total number of   to  ,033 till 10.30 pm. As many as 7,301   have also registered with the authority.

 With the state government giving no extension, developers who had shown initial reservations in getting their projects registered with the newly-formed MahaRERA made a last-minute rush to meet the deadline. However, they also sought an extension of another month from chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.
 
 Of the projects registered, 2,346 have been issued certificates while the remaining would get them within a fortnight, RERA officials said. Pune district tops with certificates having been granted to 836 projects followed by Mumbai suburban (445 projects), Thane (292) and Mumbai city (86).
 
 State housing minister Prakash Mehta told TOI that developers who have not registered with RERA would face action. ‘Till late evening, I got no request from any developers’ body for an extension and neither was there any discussion on the issue. The MahaRERA body is doing its work and there will be no extension,” he said.
 
 The registrations with RERA were a dismal three-digit figure till 15 days ago, but picked up in the last three days. “We are unable to understand why developers waited for last-minute registrations. They probably hoped for an extension,” said MahaRERA secretary Vasant Prabhu. 
 
 As per section 3 of the RERA Act, developers will not be able to advertise, market or offer projects for sale if they have not registered with the regulator. By August 15, the list of all projects registered under the Act will be made available. Citizens who come to know of any ongoing project devoid of the RERA registration number can lodge a complaint on a dedicated email id. The complainant need not be a buyer or a direct beneficiary.
 
 The trend on Monday was of developers in the main city areas registering their projects in large numbers while the registrations were dismal in many inside towns. Maharashtra CREDAI president Shantilal Kataria told TOI that there were some issues with online registration for small-town builders. “If the government gives developers another month, more registrations will happen,” he said.
 
 
