In a bid to give a boost to green constructions in the city,   has decided to build a new conference hall made fully of bamboo at its Zonal office in Khairatabad.   Central Zone Commissioner   told Hyderabad Times that it will be the first of its kind in the city. “We decided to go completely green by using bamboo for our new conference hall covering an area of 2400 sq ft. It would accommodate 200 people, and can last upto 15 years. This will be the largest such green construction initiated by GHMC in city. It is estimated to cost around Rs 10 lakh, which is only half of what a conventional brick and mortar construction would cost. It is value for money. It’s roof will be fitted with solar panels and LED lights. We are also planning to have furniture made of bamboo in the new structure,” said Dasari.
Adding that GHMC is confident that this new construction will pave way for more such green constructions in city, Dasari confirmed that the work has already started and the construction will be completed soon. The civic body is in talks with Bengaluru-based Indian Plywood Industries Research and Training Institute to replicate similar low-cost and eco-friendly structures in public places like parks and municipal offices, added Harichandana.
 City based couple Prashant and Aruna Lingam who have built 12   in the city have been roped in for this project.
 
 
 
 Bamboo homes are cheap and durable and don’t require permissions from municipal authorities to construct or dismantle.
 The cost of construction using conventional brick and mortar is around ` 1,200 for per sq feet, whereas bamboo costs only ` 500-600 per sq feet.
 Vara Prasad, a lecturer of  , who chose bamboo to build his Ameerpet residence, says the entire construction took only two months. “It makes use of bamboo boards, and it is tailored-made for your use. You can make changes whenever you want. I wanted a rustic look for my home as I am from an agriculture background. I decorated the structure with some terracotta and now i’m planning to start some roof-top vegetable cultivation soon.” The earthy bamboo structure gives your home a natural look, points out Kameshwar Rao from Kothapet, who constructed a bamboo home three months ago. “It is very cheap when compared to conventional homes, and gives a cool, rustic look. The bamboo panels can be fitted in a few weeks and are flexible for alterations later. Almost everyone who visits me is floored; many want to try it at their homes as well. It’s ideal for extensions, farm houses or roof-top constructions, as you don’t need permissions from authorities since they are considered temporary 
 constructions.”
 
