Bhopal: Those suffering from thalassemia, haemophilia, sickle cell disease, acid attack, Parkinson’s disease and other illness will now get benefits of all government schemes meant for disabled, including reservation in jobs, scholarship and pension. 

 Prior to it, benefits of state and central government schemes were extended to those suffering from blindness, low vision, leprosy-cured, hearing impairment, loco motor disability, mental retardation and mental illness. 
 
 But in a relief to those suffering from deadly diseases, number of illnesses covered under rights of person with   2016, which came into effect from April, has increased from 7 to 21. The rules are being framed and states would have to comply to it in a few months. 
 
 The state government will have to ensure ones suffering from newly-added disabilities get all benefits extended to those suffering from seven illnesses, which were covered in the old act. 
 
 However, identifying patients suffering from the freshly added disabilities, getting them registered in the respective categories and giving them benefits will not be an easy task for states.
 
 Social justice and disability welfare department is responsible for the task in MP. Department’s principal secretary Neelam Shami Rao said efforts would be made to ensure ones suffering from recently added illnesses get all possible assistance.
 
 The newly added illnesses include autism spectrum disorder, cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy, chronic neurological conditions, specific learning disabilities, multiple sclerosis, speech and language disability, thalassemia, haemophilia, sickle cell disease, multiple disabilities including deaf blindness, acid attack victims, mental illness and Parkinson’s disease.
 
 There are over 8 lakh disabled in the state, whose number will now go manifold with inclusion of other disabilities. Officials said as a set procedure they conduct medical tests of patients and based on the disability. extend the benefits. Of the total disabled in the state, 6.55 lakh people live in rural areas and the remaining ones are in urban areas.
 
 There are over 11 state and Union government-run welfare schemes in MP. Teaching, training, employment and rehabilitation programmes are conducted through voluntary and government organizations.
 
 Under the new Act, disability has been defined based on an evolving and dynamic concept and the government has the power to add more types of disabilities.
 
 
