NEW DELHI: An   and his associate were thrashed and handed over to the police for trying to   two   from   on Thursday evening.

 The girls, aged 8 and 10, said that the men, Praveen Kumar and Dheerpal, had been harassing them for the past one week and had tried to pull them inside the cab a couple of times earlier as well. However, they did not report the matter to their parents. The girls study in classes IV and V at a government school near Pandav Nagar.
 
 On Thursday, the two men tried to drag them inside Praveen’s cab while they were returning from school. However, one of the girls bit the hand of an accused and managed to free themselves. They then ran inside a temple nearby and hid behind the idol for a few hours. The girls narrated the incident to their mother after reaching home.
 
 “I told them that I would pick them up after they finish their tuition classes. However, the men caught hold of them before I could reach the tuition teacher’s house in Patparganj,” said their mother.
 
 While the mother was on her way, she heard her daughters screaming for help. A crowd had gathered hearing their calls for help. “I saw my younger daughter crying and the elder one holding her in her arms,” she said.
 
 The two men were thrashed by the crowd and handed over to the police. “We have charged them under POCSO Act and the IPC section of stalking on the statements of the girls,” said a police officer.
 
 In their statements given under CrPC Section 164, the girls said that the men had earlier asked them their names and address and even offered to drop them home, but they refused. Later, they started becoming insistent and threatened to harm them if they did not relent.
 
 Praveen works for an app-based cab service, while Dheerpal owns a private taxi. They were questioned and sent to judicial custody for 14 days. Police have seized their mobile phones to find out whether they had filmed the children. Probe is on to ascertain if they had assaulted other girls in the locality.
 
