LUCKNOW: Students of schools across the district will from Monday onward be informed and taught about ways to be safe against dengue spreading mosquitoes, right after morning prayers at the  . The decision to this effect was taken by the   (TFC) that was formed under the high court's order in October 2016, after the state health department and government was pulled up by the court for its failure to tackle dengue menace. 

 Directions were on Thursday given to the   (DIOS) and the Basic Education Officer to put the order in place. Within this, students will be informed about wearing clothes that cover the full body including arms and legs, drain out any stagnant water found in and around their homes that acts as breeding ground for mosquitoes and about the use of protective mosquito nets at night, informed chief medical officer (CMO), Dr GS Bajpai.
 
 As per government records, a total of 1020 people had been affected by dengue in the district last year and 18 people died of the same.
 
 The eleven member committee constituted under the district magistrate and to be assisted by the deputy CMO (vector borne) in each district also decided that a uniform rate card for the card test for dengue and dissemination of blood platelets will also be put into place, to keep a check on private players. "The card test though not very reliable is still the first step for finding out the mosquito borne disease. At the government level the test costs around Rs 153 but the private laboratories had charged people between Rs 600-Rs 2,000 last year depending on the rush on patients. We will fix the rates soon in the next meeting," informed  , deputy CMO (vector borne diseases). 
 
 As a first step, it has also been decided that each of the 498 Gram Sabhas in the district, a sum of Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 from the Village Health Sanitation and Nutrition Committee (VHSNC) will be kept aside for purchase of spray pumps to be used for anti-larval spray at the Gram Sabha level. "We will start this within a week's time, something which was not done before. Any villager struggling with the problem of water logging leading to mosquito breeding, could then contact the Gram Sabha and get the spray done. The medical superintendent at the CHC (community health centre) has been made responsible for this," added Dr Rawat. The high risk areas for dengue mosquito penetration and water logging have also to be identified by June 1. 
 
