CHENNAI: On the eve of  , the state forest department can be glad it has helped in a major conservation effort in the Nilgiris. A joint effort with the district administration and   has helped breathe fresh life into the  , one of the oldest in the region. 

 As a culmination of the exercise, water from the Sandinullah dam began flowing into the river since February 16. Advocate and wildlife conservationist M Santhanaraman, who played a key role in kick-staring the effort, said it was once a perennial water body in water-starved Sigur, north of the Nilgiri mountains.
 
 In his book 'Cheetal Walk', noted naturalist E R C Davidar writes of how it had once teemed with fish. Then, after the   dam was built in the 1970s, it turned dry.
 
 Now that it has got a second lease of life, the river should not be allowed to go dry again, Santhanaram said. Collector P Shankar, who on Sunday took a stroll along a seven km stretch of the river, said water had to be released only during the dry season.
 
 The administration plans to regulate drawing of water by people in the area as the wildlife is totally dependent on the river. A few check dams have to be revived and a couple of percolation ponds created, he said.
 
 Principal chief conservator of forests N Krishnakumar said rivers flowing through forests had to be maintained in a coordinated effort among various agencies to help people living there and the wildlife. Ensuring water for wildlife will will help reduce incidents of man-animal conflict to an extent, he added.
 
 Just a month after water began flowing into the river, Nilgiris-based environmentalist Jean Philippe Puyravaud said the valley had once again gone green with regeneration of trees and bamboos, and wildlife had stopped using artificial waterholes and cattle had started spreading.
 
 S Ragu, TNEB superintending engineer, told Puyravaud that there would be no problem in releasing excess from the dam in the dry season to maintain the "environmental flow". In this instance, there is no dilemma about choosing between environment and development, he added.
 
 
