PANAJIi: It’s been quite a journey for goalkeeper  , not just from the beautiful village of Nuvem in Goa to Aizawl in Mizoram.
 The 23-yeard-old Goan goalkeeper emerged from nowhere, just like his club  , to grab India’s attention as the Mizoram club won the   title against all odds. Along the way, Albino learnt a lot; more importantly to adapt and lead from the back, a lesson that transformed him from a talented youngster at   to a champion with Aizawl FC.
 
  “This was my first I-league season and it feels great to be a champion of India. I got to play all the matches in the league by God’s grace and we won the title. It feels really good to be part of a fairytale journey,” said Albino.
  Albino surely has plenty to cherish as he decided to leave the comfort of his home in Goa to ply his trade for an outstation club in the I-League for the first time.
  It was not the first time that Albino played outside Goa. He started it all with Mumbai City FC in the Indian Super League, and although this season his appearances were restricted to just four, he put up a decent show, inviting offers from Goa’s lone team in the I-League, Churchill Brothers, and Mumbai FC.
  The choice was tough but coach Khalid Jamil’s appointment as coach at Aizawl made it easy for him.
  “I just wanted to play this season and Khalid sir showed a lot of interest in me, so I thought it will be good for me to join Aizawl. It turned out to be the right decision,” said Albino.
  It was a decision that helped Albino. He went on to make 18 appearances under AIFF Coach-of-the-Year Khalid Jamil and succeeded in keeping eight clean sheets with one Player of the Match award against Bengaluru FC; a match where he got noticed after blocking his Mumbai City teammate Sunil Chhetri’s spot kick. It was, not surprisingly, his “best moment.”
 
  His impressive performances meant he came within touching distance of finishing as the best goalkeeper in the I-League, losing narrowly to Debjit Majumder of Mohun Bagan. Aizawl and Albino’s focus is now the   at Cuttack and there will be plenty more to win.
  Albino joined the successful Salgaocar youth set-up with the under-13 side and kept improving with each passing year. After spending five seasons with the senior team, Albino only parted ways with the club after the Vasco-based side pulled out of the I-League along with Goa’s other biggies, Sporting Clube de Goa and five-time champions Dempo.
 
  The impressive goalkeeper has already played for the India Under-16 and U-19 teams. More recently, he was part of the Under-23 squad that the played AFC Championship Qualifiers against Uzbekistan. His remarkable journey this season can now open new doors; may be one that leads to the national team.
