Days after filing nomination from Jaswantnagar in Etawah on Tuesday, 
  is in a pensive mood. Not very long ago, the No.2 in SP, he no longer figures in the party’s list of star campaigners. His statement on ‘forming a party after March 11’ has created a flutter. In an interview with 
 , he calls his struggle a fiSght for “righteousness and justice”. “Yeh dharma yuddha hai”. 
 

 
 
 It’s a war against some of my own who have perpetrated injustice, conspired to eliminate me politically. I’m not scared of the result, but have appealed to people to stand by me, otherwise the party will be in the hands of those with vested interests and those who have captured power in Lucknow and government contracts. Those shouting slogans against   and me have never faced lathis and bullets.
 
 
 
 
 There’s a conspiracy to fi nish those who’ve built the party through years of struggle. Where was this youth team when Mulayam Singh and I were jailed? When Mulayam was in prison, I built the outfi t. In those days, we didn’t even have money to stay in hotels. ‘Humne jhande ka takia laga kar sadak ke kinare soya hai’ (We slept on the roadside). What has this youth brigade done? Unfortunately, they have captured the party.
 
 
 
 
 I want   to be the CM. But the way my people and I are being hunted down, sidelined and targeted, what option do I have? I want to be with those who are fi ghters. I can’t be with land-grabbers and contractors.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t know. Despite my speech at the party’s silver jubilee when I said I was not in the race for CM, this perception continued. I’m being targeted for no fault of mine.
 
 
 
 
 No. The youth has done well. But I do question why those who attacked Netaji are getting protection. Why has nobody asked them to explain why they humiliated Mulayam Singh publicly. Does the person (Mulayam) who struggled for the party and almost sacrifi ced his life, not deserve respect and dignity? Even political rivals respect him, but he is being humiliated by a handful of people and they are being pampered. My fi ght is certainly against them.
 
 
 
 
 To repeat what Netaji said, what will be the fate of the workers in 105 constituencies being surrendered to the  ? I will follow whatever Netaji decided.
 
 
 
 
 I’m being forced to. My priority is to strengthen the SP and Mulayam Singh’s hands. But if vendetta against me and my men continues, what option do I have? Wait till March 11.
 
 
