GURUGRAM: The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued a notice of contempt to the Gurgaon deputy commissioner, for non-compliance of its order on December 18, 2016, in which it had directed the officer to hold MCG   within three months. The   has been asked to file a reply on May 16.

 The three-month period ended on March 18, yet there is no clarity on when MCG elections, which were due for May 2016 when the term of the House got over, will be held.
 
 Last year, while hearing a case filed by activist Rajesh Yadav, the high court, in a verbal order on December 8, 2016, had asked the Haryana government to compete the process of delimiting wards within the next two months, and thereafter hold the MCG elections within a month. However, the government has failed to do so and nobody seems to know when it will eventually be held.
 
 The activist had alleged the BJP government was deliberately delaying and derailing the election process. “As per the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, the ad-hoc committee for ward delimitation can’t have more than five members. Yet, the ad-hoc committee formed on September 2, 2016 by the then-Gurgaon deputy commissioner T L Satyaprakash had six members. This was deliberately done so that at a later stage, the government could ask somebody to challenge the way this committee was formed in court, so that the process gets delayed,” said Yadav.
 
 “According to plan, while there was no objection raised for the next five months, at the very fag end of the period, in January this year, when the ward delimitation was almost finalised, it was challenged by a councillor’s husband, on the exact grounds I was apprehensive of, and managed to get a stay from the court. Thus, as planned, the entire process got delayed. It is indeed very strange and unbelievable that the deputy commissioner did not know there can’t be more than five members in the committee. Obviously, he was acting on the orders of the state government,” he said.
 
 The six members in the ad-hoc committee are Gurgaon MLA Umesh Aggarwal, Haryana dairy development cooperative federation chairman G L Sharma, ex-mayor Vimal Yadav, ex-municipal councillors Dalip Sahni and Gargi Kakker, and BJP functionary Anil Yadav. Interestingly, all six members belong to BJP, and it is alleged each one demarcated wards according to what suited them best, to increase their chances of winning the MCG election. Barring Aggarwal and Sharma, the rest four have expressed their intentions of contesting the elections.
 
 When TOI contacted the present deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh, he said he was not aware of any contempt notice issued to him. “This is news to me. Let me check with the attorney general’s office and MCG about such notice,” he said.
 
 
