CHENNAI: The   officers of the Delhi police have flown back to the   with AIADMK (Amma) deputy general secretary   to question him further in the   bribery case. 

 Delhi CCB officers said they had additional information about Delhi-based hawala broker Naresh Jain, who helped Dhinakaran's middleman Sukesh Chandrashekhar transfer money from Chennai to Delhi.
 
 Earlier, the police team had searched for another suspect in the   Narendra Jain of Sowcarpet, who allegedly played a key role in transferring 10 crore to Sukesh. The officers also searched for another suspect on Madurai Samy Madam Street in Perambur. They later searched the Adambakkam residence of Mohanarangam, a retired government official, as well as the residence of a relative of Dhinakaran. 
 
 Dhinakaran, who is in the custody of the Delhi CCB for five days, will be produced before the court on Monday.
 
 On Thursday, a Delhi CCB team led by assistant commissioner   brought him to Chennai. Investigators questioned him at Rajaji Bhavan in Besant Nagar before raiding his Adyar residence. 
 
 The CCB team took a few documents from the house and got Dhinakaran's signatures on them.
 
 The officers refused to divulge information about the seizure and outcome of the raids at Dhinakaran's house and in other places. Sources said the Delhi CCB team had reliable information and evidence to prove Dhinakaran had been in touch with Sukesh earlier. 
 
 Delhi CCB officers have also issued summons to Mohanarangam, a lawyer named Gopinath of Sundarakottipuram near Thiruverkadu and Philips Daniel of Kolapakkam near Vandalur to appear before them for an inquiry. They also plan to summon two state ministers in connection with the case.
 
 Police had arrested Sukesh on April 17 on charges of attempting to bribe an Election Commission official to get the two leaves symbol for the AIADMK (Amma) faction led by Dhinakaran. The Delhi CCB then registered a case against Dhinakaran and arrested him on April 25 after several rounds of detailed investigation. Meanwhile, police also arrested a middleman Naresh on April 27 for assisting in transferring Rs10 crore money to Sukesh Chandrasekar.
 
