NEW DELHI: The   will start implementing a stringent set of new rules from June to cut down on obesity in the ranks, with a ban on  , foreign postings and distinguished awards for soldiers not found to be in shape.
 
  Getting on with its action plan on 'Reducing Obesity in the Indian Army’, instructions have been issued by HQ to all units across the country to maintain records of soldiers and officers who are found to be over 10 per cent of their ideal body weight.
  
  Senior officers have been asked to conduct spot checks, surprise visits and scrutinize records “if the individual appears to be obese”. The detailed set of instructions accessed by ET also require the army to now maintain photographs of soldiers in their annual appraisal reports that will have a ‘side profile’ for visual records.
  
  Soldiers not meeting the ideal weight criteria will not be allowed to go for any foreign postings, including to the much coveted   peacekeeping forces and, according to the new rules, any plum posting will not be given to the identified individuals.
  
  Officers and soldiers will also need to cut flab to pick up promotions that they would have otherwise qualified for. “If an individual is found more than 10% beyond ideal body weight, records office will not issue promotion order till such time as the individual comes within laid down weight parameters,” the instructions state.
  
  The rules are also applicable to other non combat streams of the army including the army medical corps, defence security corps and the Territorial Army, empowering ‘commanders in the chain’ to conduct random checks to identify obese personnel. The only exception to the rules is for soldiers who have received wounds in combat and individuals certified as having heavy muscle or bone density.
  
  Obese soldiers will also no longer be visible at public functions and events like awards ceremonies.
  
  While gallantry award winners would be allowed, any other awardees or escorts deemed to be obese would not be permitted to take part in the prestigious investiture ceremonies.
  
