PUNE: It may not be all that easy for many   in the country to be a part of prime minister Narendra Modi’s ambitious programme to build 20 world-class universities, which will now be referred to as institutions of eminence. 

 To be considered an  , said former University Grants Chairman Ved Prakash, any private university must have a trust or society with a net worth of at least Rs5,000 crore. What’s more, at least one member of the trust must have a net worth of Rs1,000 crore. 
 
 Speaking at the round-table conference on “Building World-class Universities” at Symbiosis International University on Saturday, Prakash acknowledging that the requirements might change in the future. 
 
 “We have come up with regulations and guidelines,” Prakash said, “As a commission, we have forwarded the proposal to the government, which has yet to clear it for the purpose of notification; it is [still] in the pipeline.”
 
 “There will be different criteria for existing institutions, and greenfield institutions. A letter of intent will be issued and within a specific period, you will have to come up with a blueprint and set up an institution. The trust should have assets worth Rs5,000 crore, and one board member should have assets worth Rs1,000 crore. A 3-5 member expert committee, formed by the   as per the HRD ministry’s recommendations, will issue the letter of intent. This will be followed by the final approval,” said Prakash, who had retired as UGC chairman earlier this week.
 
 “Where the regulations are concerned, the present dispensation wants to deregulate performing institutions. The regulations proposed by UGC and almost accepted by the government would not be imposed on institutions of eminence. These IEs will be absolutely free,” said Prakash.
 
 Reacting to this, Philip Altbatch, director of Center for International  , Boston College (USA), said, “I think these guidelines and rules ... make it impossible. It’s too complicated.”
 
 “If a private individual wishes to set up a university, s/he can access public resources for research projects. Right now, private universities don’t get research grants. But these world-class universities will receive a research grant from us,” Prakash added.
 
