PATNA: The state cabinet on Tuesday sanctioned Rs42.93 lakh for a detailed study on siltation in the Ganga between Farakka in West Bengal and Buxar in Bihar over a period of six months. Apart from assessment of silt load in the river, the study would also focus on the impact of operation of Farakka barrage. Drones would also be used to assess the silt load at various points in the river.   Dr Rajiv Sinha, professor at the department of earth sciences at IIT Kanpur, has been hired as consultant for the study. Sinha has received accolades in the field of environment and river management, including National Mineral Award in 2002, Alexander von Humboldt Fellowship for post-doctoral research in Germany in 2000 and Career Award for Young Teachers by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) in 1998.    “The study will primarily focus on assessment and mapping of historical changes in the morphology of the Ganga, identification of major siltation points and their mapping by drones, the evaluation of silt load in the river in Bihar and suggesting ways to resolve the problem. A brief assessment will also be done on the impact of operation of Farakka barrage on Bihar,” cabinet secretariat department principal secretary Brijesh Mehrotra said.    CM Nitish Kumar has time and again raised the issue of excessive siltation in the Ganga, which is also considered to be one of the causes of recurrent floods in many parts of the state. The CM, on August 21 last year, had asked the Centre to remove the Farakka dam or come out with a silt management policy.    The cabinet also cleared a industries department proposal for private investment worth Rs68.48 crore for maize crushing starch plant to be set up at Thakurganj in Kishanganj district by Kolkata-based Regaal Resources Private Limited.    It was also decided to create 144 posts for administrative officials and staff for the upcoming Patliputra University, Purnia University and Munger University. Sources said search committees would also be constituted soon for appointment of vice- chancellors and pro vice-chancellors in three upcoming universities.    The cabinet also revised estimated project cost for a proposed interstate bus terminal (ISBT) on Patna-Gaya road from Rs302.34 crore to Rs331.61 crore. The state government would fund the project against the earlier decision of taking a loan from Housing and Urban Development Corporation (Hudco).