BHUBANESWAR: Considered to be mother of all chit fund scams, Rose Valley Group allegedly cheated depositors of nearly  ,000 crore, at least four times more than the Saradha Group. But, different   so far detected and attached the company’s assets to the tune of nearly Rs 373 crore while the details regarding remaining amount of about Rs 14,000 crore remains sketchy. 

 TOI inquiry reveals the   (EOW) of state Crime Branch had in June 2014 proposed to the state finance department to attach Rose Valley properties worth nearly Rs 78 crore. The attached properties included Rs 51 crore frozen deposits in different banks, Rs 47 lakh cash, 15 acre land in Bhubaneswar and Balasore, four sprawling commercial flats in a plush apartment on city outskirts and another office building in Kharvela Nagar area here.
 
 In what is described as the biggest attachment of money in the country, the   (ED) on November 27, 2014 attached Rose Valley’s bank balance worth Rs 295 crore in 2,807 accounts across the country. 
 
 Now, the big question is where is the rest of the money. “In our preliminary chargesheet filed in the CBI court here on January 7 last year, we mentioned that the company collected nearly Rs 17,000 crore from depositors across the country. Our aim was not to attach the company’s properties. Our prime focus was to arrest the accused and bust the conspiracy,” said a CBI officer.
 
 CBI said it is responsibility of the EOW and ED to trace the company’s assets. EOW and ED took the company’s different accused, including managing director Gautam Kundu, on custodial remand in different phases in the past to know about his modus operandi and properties. 
 
 “We asked him a lot. But we managed to locate his properties to the tune of nearly Rs 295 crore. Our efforts are on to trace his more properties. We suspect he owned several benami properties and might have stashed money in undisclosed locations,” an ED officer said. 
 
 CBI sources said Kundu led a flashy lifestyle and owned properties worth hundreds of crores of rupees. “He has over 5000 acres spread across 12 states, 23 hotels, 150-odd luxurious cars, 900 branch offices and 3,078 bank accounts,” another CBI officer said. Kundu rubbed shoulders with the who is who of the Bollywood, Tollywood and corporate world as he invested heavily in films and IPL team Kolkata Knight Riders during seasons 5 and 6, CBI said.
 EOW, which interrogated Kundu in its custody for last eight days, failed to elicit any information about his properties. “He did not divulge anything about properties other than we attached in 2014,” an EOW officer told TOI. “We think Kundu is acting smart. He very well knows he would be convicted for maximum seven to eight years in the cheating case. He already spent nearly two years in judicial custody. After ending the conviction period, he can enjoy the staggering unattached money,” said lawyer Sidharth Das.
 
