VADODARA: Former India skipper   isn’t happy about   matches being played at neutral venues. 

 Kapil said during his visit to the city on Tuesday that any crowd would like to see the local cricketer in action. “I personally feel that the crowd would like to watch local cricketers. A cricketer too would like to play in his home town. If I am not allowed to play in front of my home crowd it won’t be fun,” Kapil said when asked about the BCCI’s decision to play Ranji matches at neutral venues to improve the quality of cricket. 
 
 “Hardik Pandya is from Vadodara. How would people feel if he doesn’t play here?” Kapil added. He was in the city to attend a meet organized by a major battery manufacturer of which he is a brand ambassador. The all-rounder, who led India to its first World Cup victory in 1983, felt that the standard of cricket has improved immensely in last 20 years. 
 
 Praising the Indian Premier League (IPL), Kapil said that it has given a good platform to players to display their talent. He went on to add that T20 has also helped improve the quality of cricket in India. “Our batting, fielding, bowling and running between the wickets has improved a lot in last 20 years. Something which didn’t happen in the earlier 50 years,” Kapil said. “Earlier if we drew a test match, people used to be happy. But now everyone wants cricketers to go for a win,” he added. 
 
 When asked about stand-off between   and   over revenue sharing, Kapil ducked the issue and said that he is no one to comment about it. “I don’t have any knowledge about the issue so I can’t comment on it. I would like to enjoy cricket like everyone else. And it doesn’t matter much as Indian cricket is doing well,” he said. 
 
 Kapil left the audience in splits when asked about the game being tilted heavily in favour of batsmen. “Cricket has always been in the favour of batsmen. I have always said that a bowler is like a labourer and batsman is like officer,” Kapil quipped. 
 
 Talking about the burnout due to continuous cricket, Kapil said that cricketers these days play the sport full time and it is their job. “In our times, cricketers used to work in banks, railways or other places. Nowadays they play it like professionals and hence the cricketers have to decide when to take a break,” he added. 
 
 
