Bringing  , a group of activists have come up the unique idea of using ‘seed balls’ to increase the city’s   and  . The Society for Science, Environment and People will take the help of warkaris passing through the city during Palkhi.

 The group has appealed to citizens to send seeds of native plants to its volunteers, who will then prepare the seed balls, using mud, cow dung and cow urine. These will then be distributed to the warkaris during this year’s wari procession and they will be asked to scatter them on the ancient wari route (Alandi to Pandharpur) which is facing deforestation.
 
 During the monsoon, once these seed balls get sufficient rain, the seeds inside will start germinating. The covering of soil and cow dung save the seeds from birds, worms and ants, thus yielding maximum results. These will also distributed to trekkers and nature lovers to be planted near highways, barren lands, forts, etc.
 
 Volunteers have asked for seeds to be donated on the May 20 and May 27 at the centre near New English School on Tilak Road.
 
 Speaking to Mirror, Abhijit Ghorpade, part of the group and founder of the Bhavtal movement, said, “During a group discussion, we found that a similar idea had met with success in Bangalore. We want to create awareness about the environment and thus decided to go ahead with the plan. We have also asked people to join the seed ball preparation workshop to be held next week.”
 
 “We are using seeds of plants as well as trees, including neem, peepal, gulmohar, badam, tamarind, jamun, babool, etc. These are all strong species, native to the area and ideal to be grown along the highway,” Ghorpade added.
 
 Elaborating on why they chose the warkaris as allies, Ghorpade said, “Warkaris are very well aware about the changing nature of the wari route and how the green cover has been lost in the last two decades. Tourists and trekkers will also be included in this initiative.”
 
 Iravati Barsode, another volunteer from Sinhgad Road, said, “This is not done much in the city because the flora that can be made into seed balls is limited and areas for planting are scarce. With the participation of citizens, it will be more successful. We will also teach children to be part of this conservation initiative.”
 
 Amar Shinde, a volunteer, from Hadapsar agreed, saying, “There are many groups opposing deforestation, but what is needed is more afforestation. Taking the warkaris’ help will also affirm our devotion to lord Vitthala.”
 
