KOLKATA: Debasish Banerjee, an IT head of a company, used to drive an Alto to his  . Soumitra Bose used to go to his Sector V office in a   Priyadarshi Saha relied on app-cabs for commuting to office and back. But that was prior to August 2014. Since then, they have all been travelling in a bus. 

 The AC   on AC43 route which does 33km between Golf Green and Airport has not only inspired many car owners to opt for public transport, it has also knit together a community of office-goers who didn't even know of each other's existence till they met on the bus. 
 
 The daily commuters of this route have created a whatsapp group that gives minute-by-minute update on the bus's location to help other commuters in the group. This way, people are able to leave their homes just in time to reach the stop and catch the bus. "This a wonderful model which should be replicated in every route. By shifting to bus, they have reduced their carbon footprint. They also contribute to the process of decongestion of the city. This has made the route immensely successful. Round the year, the route remains one of the top draws," said WBTC managing director Narayan Swarup Nigam. 
 
 Banerjee, Bose, Saha and others who avail the service are convinced thousands of others would do so if they had a convenient and comfortable commute alternative. "Driving to office was stressful and boring. We would often be stuck for long periods in traffic snarl with no one to speak to. Then there was the hassle of finding a parking slot. Those who didn't own cars were at the mercy of cabbies who behaved as though they are doing a favour," said Bose, an IT professional whom commuters have given the monicker 'captain' because he steers the WhatsApp group.
 
 The commuters bond as a community and care for others' well-being during the journey. Sudipto Bhattacharyya, a visually challenged youth, gets a dozens of helping hands till he reaches his seat reserved by fellow passengers.
 
 "We have stringent work ethics in the group. We're aware that everyone goes to each respective work place. So, the group's running commentary stops after the last bus goes past Sector V. Then we move to club, which is kind of a closed sub-group of this route that looks into issues with passengers," said Debasish Banerjee, a core-committee member. 
 
 When the bus met with a minor accident the day TOI travelled with the group, Banerjee swung into action. He got in touch with respective police officer so that bus was not unduly detained.
 
 "It is a rediscovery of fellow-feeling for many of us. I felt like a mobile island when I had to travel a few days in app-cabs due to some change of timing in my office schedule. I got relieved, when I returned to my normal schedule. We look forward to this trip to our workplaces together," said Rathin Dasgupta.
 
 The bus has united two long-lost friends. Debasish Banerjee and Saikat Roy both studied in an  , same batch. Both ended up staying in Golf Green. "After we started travelling in the bus, we came to know that we were staying in the same area," said Roy. There are stories of "lost and always found". The tiffin boxes or valuables left in bus will reach the rightful claimants after it's notified in the whatsapp group.
 
 
