HYDERABAD: The   toll climbed to eight on Monday with a 50-year-old woman succumbing to the virus in the state-run Gandhi hospital. With 100   cases within a week of February and 25 fresh cases reported on Monday, the medical fraternity pressed the panic buttons and warned the virus maybe mutating into a more deadly strain that may make it resistant to  . The swine flu count this year has risen to an alarming 235.

 Worried doctors said they are administering most patients with flu-like symptoms with antiviral agent oseltamivir (Tamiflu). They said if more patients test positive, there could be a shortage of the antiviral agent in the city, making people more vulnerable.
 
 “Patients can take vaccines as a precautionary measure as a new strain could have hit us this year. Or it could be just more cases detected due to increased awareness,” said a senior health department official.
 
 “Every year, there’s a new strain of virus and the vaccine too changes. Children below the age of two are in the high-risk group. So, it is a good idea to get them vaccinated. If a child has high fever, cold and cough for more than three days, it’s better to visit a doctor and undergo H1N1 test,” said Dr  , consultant pediatrician, Candy Children’s Hospital. An emergency specialist at Apollo Hospital, Jubilee Hills, also said there’s a distinct possibility of a new virus strain.
 
 As children are in the high-risk group, schools in Hyderabad have also gone into the precautionary mode and asked students to take series of measures so that they don’t contact the virus.
 
 From using hand sanitizers to having nutritious food, schools are encouraging students to get vaccinated.
 
 “We are not ringing the alarm bells, but are just asking students to be safe. Posters have been put up across the school building and even teachers are leading the awareness campaign. We are basically asking students to be hygienic,” said Anjali Razdan, principal, P  .
 
 “We have also exempted students suffering from high fever from attending internal exams,” she said. Not just private schools, even department of school education has sent out an oral message to head masters and science teachers of government schools to educate children on swine flu and precautions.
 
 “We will send out a circular to all schools. We want teachers to encourage students to use handkerchiefs and sanitizers,” said Ramesh Babu, district education officer, Hyderabad.
 
 In 2016, only 173 swine flu cases were registered in Hyderabad and in the preceding year it was 3,000, an all-time high.
 
 H1N1 is a contagious virus that spreads from one person to another through tiny droplets released into the air when a flu-infected person coughs or sneezes. Based on symptoms and severity, H1N1 status and treatment have been categorised under A, B1, B2 and C as per guidelines of the Union ministry of health and family welfare.
 
 Despite being brought under Aarogyasri through a circular dating back to January 2015, no corporate hospital is providing free treatment to poor H1N1 patients with BPL cards.
 
