PUNE: For all of its magnificent façade, the   (CoEP), a grade ‘A’ heritage structure, cannot be admired. Its view will be hampered to a large extent when the last remaining arm of the adjacent flyover opens later this year.

 “The flyover is necessary to ease the traffic flow in this area. But when it is already a heritage complex, the aesthetics will be very badly affected, especially if you look at the building towards the river bank, as that wing is older and more grand from an architectural viewpoint,” Richa Singh, who travels to her office in Baner from Kalyaninagar daily, said.
 
 From the  , to the  , and the local civic bodies, all have provisions to ensure that large-scale infrastructure projects do not come up within a certain distance, generally a few hundred metres, of the structure. The laws cite architectural harmony of the given area, and the structural stability of the monuments.
 
 But these authorities and courts have given waivers to transit projects because of the public interest clauses which are part of the laws.
 
 Plans for the CoEP flyover were staunchly opposed by conservationists and some alumni of the college, fearing for the stability of the heritage structure due to vibrations and the cacophony from the traffic expected on the flyover. They also complained that the wing towards Sancheti hospital was too close to some classrooms.
 
 In Camp, the building spree before the late 1980s brought a number of British-era buildings to the ground for newer ones, and the newer, commercial structures blocked out the views of the colonial structures .
 
 A new byelaw was drafted by the   (MoD) to help preserve older structures by looking at the issue of architectural harmony. That clause would have prevented any structure from being built which would block the view or be not in sync with the architecture of older structures in a given area. Till now, however, the PCB has recommended that clause to be deleted from the draft, saying “it is not needed”.
 
 Conservation architects say town planners do not look at the larger picture before going for infrastructure projects or urban renewal.
 
 “ Authorities have not often looked at the surroundings before planning and executing such infrastructure, so as to not brutalise the architecture around with concrete structures. For example, the students at the CoEP might just be the most unfortunate in town, as they are sandwiched between the railway tracks on one side, the river on the other, and a flyover and highway with heavy traffic in the middle,” says Kiran Kalamdani, an urban conservationist.
 
 Heritage can cover historical values, the way of life in the past and present, and even the way a given structure was built, architect Niranjan Garde said.
 
 “Before accepting all of the modern ways and technology, the heritage of the given area should be taken into account. Another thought by the town planner should be the need for these structures in consideration of these factors. Will a flyover, with its traffic load and architecture, solve the movement of vehicles in a given area? That is a question town planners need to answer, and citizens can play their part on pushing the authorities for answers,” he added.
 
