THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The technical committee of the   project has recommended the extension of a proposed   at   to  .

 The flyover at the busy Pattom junction is part of the light metro project that also envisages similar passages at Sreekaryam, Ulloor and Thampanoor.
 
 The designs of all flyovers, barring the Thampanoor one, have got the administrative sanction.
 
 If the technical committee’s recommendation is accepted, the flyover at Pattom will span about a kilometre, saving the shops that flank the   stretch. Else, those buildings would be demolished to facilitate the widening of the road.
 
 The original plan for the flyover was suggested by the   (DMRC), the project consultant.
 
 Besides suggesting the extension of the Pattom flyover, the tech panel—comprising PWD engineers (NH and bridges wings) and Natpac director—has also recommended the widening of the planned one at Thampanoor.
 
 The National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (Natpac) had, based on a suggestion by the Kerala Rapid Transit Corporation Ltd (KRTL), conducted a study of the vehicular traffic at Thampanoor and suggested the widening of the existing two-lane flyover into four lanes.
 
 The light metro project has proposed a new flyover—in addition to the existing one—connecting RMS Junction with Chenthitta.
 
 The DMRC, meanwhile, has begun demarcating land for acquisition for the planned flyover at Sreekaryam, after issuing the notification in December last. The revenue department had a month ago issued the order for acquiring 10.13 acres through negotiated purchase.
 
 Incidentally, though the government had issued administrative sanction for widening the crucial 9.5-km Kazhakkooottam-Kesavadasapuram stretch a year ago, lack of clarity on the requisition authority and mode of funding has stalled further progress.
 
 The government might entrust KRTL the task of widening the stretch.
 
 Meanwhile, the central government was yet to approve the detailed project report of the light metro projects in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode, though it was submitted in October 2015.
 
 
