HYDERABAD: Despite several stretches in the city turning into death traps, the   ( ) has continued to turn a blind eye to the need for a comprehensive and scientific Road Safety Audit (RSA) of the city's roads, rue experts. 

 Though a proposal for RSA was mooted some years ago, it was never taken up. Instead, the civic body has been focusing more on ad hoc corrective measures like widening roads and putting up dividers.
 
 This despite a string of fatal accidents snuffing out lives on deadly stretches in areas like Jubilee Hills, Banjara Hills and near the old airport (which falls under the R&B department) and the traffic police department handing over a list of 85 accident prone spots to the civic body and asking it to take steps to make the roads safer.
 
 GHMC's engineering wing officials admit that unlike some planned cities like Chandigarh and Bhubaneswar, Greater Hyderabad is not a planned, due to which road geometries are not in tune with road safety in many places.
 
 Many major roads have sharp and steep curves and some stretches are uneven as the civic body has been re-carpeting roads resulting in the height of some roads rising abnormally over a period of time.
 
 "RSA is an important exercise for safe roads and is generally taken up on highways. The city typically does not require such a study as vehicle speeds are not supposed to exceed 20 to 40 kmph in the city. But with over speeding increasing, the city also requires RSA," public health wing engineer-in-chief, R Dhan Singh, who headed the engineering wing of GHMC earlier, told TOI. 
 
 Incidentally, a few months ago the   (HMDA) got RSA done for the   (ORR) after a series of road accidents. The Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), which conducted the study, suggested remedial measures such as providing crash barriers, signages and reflective stickers.
 
 Civic officials, too, recall that a few years ago GHMC had done 'camber corrections' on NTR Marg after a series of road accidents on   near NTR Gardens.
 
 However, former director of CRRI, PS Reddy, feels that Greater Hyderabad requires more than just RSA. "Hyderabad requires both RSA and Road Safety Review (RSR). Generally, RSA is done to assess the possibility of accidents at various stretches and spots, while RSR is taken up at locations where more number of accidents are taking place," Reddy said.
 
 Municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department officials said the newly formed special purpose vehicle Road Development Corporation (RDC) will take care of all these issues apart from developing the roads. Initially, the corporation, which has been allowed by the government to raise loans for road re-development, is being given about 250 km of main roads. GHMC has 9,000 km roads running through its jurisdiction, of which main road stretches cover 400 km.
 
 "The first meeting of the RDC was held recently. It will also look into the safety aspect by appointing a consultant," said a senior official of the MA&UD department.
 
 In the meantime, GHMC officials said they have already started correction measures at the identified 85 spots such as   and the area near the passport office at Secunderabad.
 
