NAGPUR: There’s no dearth of inspiring athletes in the city. Some run small distances, some full marathons and some compete in the Ironman athletic contests. However, there aren't many ultra-marathoners in the region - those who are up for the challenge of above 50km races.

 Atul Choukse has filled the void. The Chhindwara-born Choukse, who is based in the city since the last five years, made his presence felt at the Highest Ultra   in the World. Choukse not only completed the 72-km run at the 17,617ft-high Khardung La pass, the 30-year-old also finished the 42.1-km Ladakh full marathon a day after overcoming the  .
 
 “After finishing the 72-km run my entire body was in pain. I had juices, dry fruits and protein and it took four hours for me to cool down. Once I was back to normal it was sheer will power that gave me the confidence to run the full marathon,” Choukse said about how he motivated himself in tough conditions.
 
 “Running is like meditation to me,” said Atul who strictly follows a vegetarian diet. He goes to bed before 9pm, wakes up at 3am to do what he likes most, running.
 
 The Khardung La Challenge involves a distance of 72km starting from Khardung village which is located at 3,975 meters above sea level. The race route involves a steady climb to the top of Khardung La (5,370 meters), one of the highest motorable passes in the world. From there it is downhill all the way to Leh town (3,524 meters).
 
 Around 117 participants from 29 countries including Germany, Italy and Poland among others, took up the challenge and only 63 were able to finish the race. Choukse completed the race in about 11 hours and 13 minutes to finish among the top 50 (official timings are yet to be declared).
 
 On the next day, Choukse competed in the 42km Ladakh full marathon and clocked 5.19:20 hours. Of the 146 finishers, he stood 66th. The computer instructor, a resident of Mohan Nagar, ran 114 kms in around 16 hours inside two days.
 
 The 72km Khardung La challenge is among the toughest and ultimate challenging endurance race for the serious runners. Participants have to run approximately 60km of the race at above 4000m. At 5,370 meters the race route is even six meters above the Everest marathon (5,364m).
 
 Choukse revealed that he felt like it was all over for him once he reached the Khardung La top (18,380ft). “In about 5.5 hours, I reached the top and was in extreme pain. It felt like someone has sucked the life out of me. Still, I decided to carry on. At that time I met an army man who was about to quit the race. We motivated each other and finished the race with more than 2 hours and 45 minutes left for the cut-off.”
 
 City's first athlete to complete RAAM (Race across America),   congratulated Choukse. “It’s an amazing achievement. I hope it will inspire more people to run and improve their fitness.”
 
 Now, Choukse is gearing up for the Kutch desert run with an aim to prepare for ‘dream run’ - the   marathon.
 
