Nagpur: An expert from the cyber complaint cell (C3), attached to city police crime branch, have suggested citizens to approach the unit as soon as possible after they have been targeted. 

 Given the growing challenges of smart cyber frauds and technology being adopted to dupe a victim online, cops feel that longer is the delay to report a crime, lesser are the chances to redeem it. The cops underlined the fact that the cyber frauds mostly withdraw the cash from e-wallets as soon as the intermediary transfers the   to their account. 
 
 According to a senior cop, the cyber frauds can be thwarted if the unit manages to alert the intermediary agency that a cheating has taken place which warrants a stoppage of further processing of concerned funds. “If we are able to contact the intermediary agency on time then the siphoned off funds can be reversed to the victim’s account,” he said. The officer also pointed out that on many occasions the intermediary agency has failed to reverse the funds as it had been already processed and sent to the accountants of the fraudsters who would immediately withdraw it. 
 
 “Once the fund is being transferred to the account of the fraudster and he has withdrawn it then cops would have to resort to traditional methods of tracing him or her out through identifying the person and his or her location,” said the officer. 
 
 The C3 unit has so far helped several citizens to get back their amounts or saved them from being cheated. More than around Rs12 lakhs have been reversed to the account of the   who were on the verge of losing the sums after being cheated by frauds. The unit, opened in May earlier this year with the efforts of CP K Venkatesh, has been flooded with the complaints of cyber frauds and online cheating cases among others. 
 
 A senior C3 unit officer said they had been contacting several service providers and also Directorate of telecommunications to take necessary actions and also blacklist certain mobile phone numbers and the SIM retailers as a preventive measure. 
 
 
