The three-day long weekend last month turned out to be a nightmare for Ashok Salunkhe, a clerk in a city college. Three transactions of `20,000 each were made from his debit card during that period. He couldn’t even block his card as it was a bank holiday. “All my savings have gone for a toss. I don’t even know how to go online and block my card. I’ve registered a complaint and am following the procedure as directed by the bank. I hope I get my money back,” says a harrowed Ashok.
He is not alone; the number of people who have fallen victim to this crime has gone up in recent months. Officials at the   confirm that crimes related to bank accounts are on the rise. The most common complaint they receive is that of phishing where customers are called by the scammers and asked for their card data under some pretext. Says a senior official, “Most victims are usually middle-class people who get phone calls at odd hours. They are told that their card is being cancelled or that there is some criminal activity on their card and if they don’t part with information like the CVV details and the OTP, they may lose their money. People don’t understand what’s happening and share details. The scammer then withdraws or transfers money.”
 In this case, the police say they cannot do much because it’s tough to track the caller as they use bogus identities while making the transactions. Says the official, “In cases of phishing, even the banks refuse to refund because they have asked customers to not share their details with anyone in the first place.” The incidents of  , on the other hand, have decreased in Mumbai after they tracked several such cases and caught the offenders, say officials. 
 
 With majority of bank transactions getting digitised, electronic frauds related to card transactions have also gone up. It’s not uncommon to hear of a colleague or friend getting swindled of their money. While most times people are notified by their banks, it’s important to act on it before one loses time. Mumbai-based cyber security expert   explains that several ways are being employed by fraudsters to siphon money from people’s accounts. Here are a few of them that one needs to be aware of…
 
 
 
 Scammers often wait at ATM booths to ‘assist’ elderly people or those unaware of how a card works at the cash point. Once they complete the transaction, they swap the card with a similar looking card. Says Ritesh, “These scammers have a bunch of bogus cards. They get these with the help of a trick called ‘dumpster diving’, where scammers dig through trash. They also tie up with ragpickers, who sell them discarded debit cards at cheap rates. There are other ways, where scammers visit banks and open an account just to collect debit cards. Once they have them, they close their account.” In countries like the US and UK, dumpster diving is forbidden by law.
 
 
 
 With this trick, the fraudster places a small matchstick under the machine’s ‘Enter’ key. Explaining how it works, Ritesh elaborates, “Once you insert the card, you’re asked to enter the pin. But when the ‘Enter’ key does not work, the fraudsters around put psychological pressure on you by giving bogus reasons, like they want to get urgent medical aid or some such thing. When you leave the machine, all they have to do is remove the match with a small pin. They can then access your account as you’ve entered the pin before you left the machine halfway.”
 
 
 
 One of the oldest and most common ATM scams, an entire group of waiters were caught running this scam at an upscale Bandra eatery recently. An instrument called a card skimmer, easily available online, is used to copy the entire data on the card with a single swipe. And when you share your pin with the person who gets you your bill, they can easily duplicate your card and withdraw money at any cash point in the country. Varsha Trivedi, a media professional had one such experience. “I received a call from my bank in the afternoon telling me that someone has used my card to withdraw `20,000 from my account. I’ve never been to that side of the city and thankfully, the bank made a note of this. While the amount was reverted to my account within 15 days. I’m extra cautious of where I use my card now. I feel it’s better to keep cash handy.”
 Elaborating on card skimming, an officer at the cyber police cell said, “There are two types of modus operandi used by people who steal card data. At times, the scamster has waiters as accomplices in hotels, who clone the cards by swiping in small, compact skimmers. They observe the pin and memorise it. The mastermind then makes a duplicate card and withdraws money. Another is when these skimmers are installed at ATM machine card slots. There is a tiny camera installed somewhere near the machines, which records the pin number. With this modus operandi, the scammers mostly pass details to their accomplices in other countries who withdraw money or make online transactions. People should not reveal their pin to anyone and report the loss to the cyber cell as soon as they get any intimation of 
 suspicious activity.”
 
 
 
 This is when criminals directly call a customer at odd hours, claiming their debit card is blocked and take sensitive information like card details, personal information or their last few transactions. For Tina Shetty, it was an early morning disaster, when she received a call from her bank’s customer care branch in Chennai at 4.30 am. “I ignored the first call, but I received another call immediately. When I answered, the person at the other end said that someone had used my card in Bali (she’d visited Bali a month back). Baffled, I asked him to first block my card. Later, he checked my last three transactions, which I confirmed. The final nail in the coffin was when he asked me for my DOB. I received a message immediately saying that around `9,000 had been debited from my account.”
 But then again, it’s tough to differentiate between real and fake calls. “He sounded like a thorough bank official, helping me with how I should go about with registering my complaint. Even when the real bank branch was investigating my case, they asked me for similar details — like my last transaction, address, DOB. I refused to share the same with them. Banks use this trick as a part of their investigation,” she adds.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
