Cuncolkars are famous for their fighting spirit and among these brave warriors are the Chitari family residing at Demani-Cuncolim in South Goa, and who, in this modern era are still struggling to keep alive an unique tradition passed on to them by their forefathers.
 
  Sexagenarian Ramesh Chitari and his 48-year-old nephew Dinesh, are busy toiling to complete the adolli (a low wooden stool used to grate coconuts) before starting work on the paaths (another low stool used mostly by Hindu households for religious rituals) and other wooden items that they sell at the various feast fairs (zatras).
  
  “We do brisk business after Gokulastami, especially for Ganesh Chaturthi,” says 63-year-old Ramesh proudly, displaying some wooden fruits and children’s toys, as he points out to the fatteios and turis being prepared by   for the upcoming Shigmo festival in the state.
  
  In the midst of supervising the polishing of   by his worker, Daya Chari, Dinesh says that the peak season for them is during the tulsi lagn, when the orders come in for these wooden items. These prized items are given by parents to brides-to-be as part of their vojem to be taken to their marital homes. He says that they have work through the year, preparing various items from orders they receive from regular clients, as well as work to sell finished products at various zatras and feast fairs around Goa.
  
  At his workshop, ‘Suresh Handicrafts Arts’ (founded in 1995) is 41-year-old Durgesh Chitari who is busy spray-painting the adollis. He has been in this profession since Class IX.
  
  The Chitaris say that they were taught this unique craft of making traditional wooden items by their forefathers, and that this tradition has been passed on from one generation to the next, prior to even Goa’s Liberation from the Portuguese rulers. However, they are saddened that youngsters are not keen to learn this craft since it requires strenuous work, besides the business is not very lucrative.
  
  Ramesh says that his youngest son, Prasad, 33, used to assist him till he expired two years back, whereas his eldest son,   (currently working in Qatar), has no interest in continuing this family business. He says that many individuals are fascinated by his work and have photographed and even filmed him while at work. He rues the fact that there is no financial assistance provided by the government authorities to help preserve this cultural heritage.
  
  Ramesh says that his expenditure is approximately Rs 1 lakh annually, as he has to procure wood from the Balsare sawmill, since the wood is not easily available in Goa.
  
  On the other hand, Durgesh says that his expenditure amounts to approximately Rs 2,000 daily, which includes wages, material, maintenance of the equipment, polish, etc. “Wood of the hedi tree is very expensive, whereas that of the mango tree is very cheap and jackfruit tree slightly expensive,” says Durgesh as he informs a customer that rates for the adollis vary between Rs 500-Rs1,400 depending upon their size.
  
  Durgesh has a quaint little devaro and chavay for sale. While the Hindu deity is placed on the devaro, the chavay is mostly used for the idol of Lord Ganesh, he says as he displays his other items such as the dai (or ladle used for cooking), the latfalle (a wooden board and rolling pin used to prepare chapattis/rotis) and the dafan or kutumbo or vainni (another cooking item mainly used to strain water from cooked rice).
  
  Ramesh clarifies that there is no religious significance to the red, white and green colours of the parrot motif painted on the paaths, other than it’s popularity with the public.
