ATTARI: A contingent of BSF-IAF Joint   Camel Expedition- 2017 reached at Attari international border on Monday after covering a total distance of around 1368 Kilometers and passing through various border villages and towns of Gujara, Rajasthan, and Punjab.

 BSF’s deputy inspector general RS   informed that the aim of expedition was to promote awareness regarding the campaign “Beti Bachao Beti Padhao”, “Gender Equality” and “Women Empowerment” among border population who were relatively backward and conservative.
 
 The expedition was flagged-off from IAF station Uttarlai (Barmer-Raj) on August 15th .
 
 The expedition was comprised of total 20 women representatives of both BSF and IAF. The 11 members contingent of BSF was led by Tanushree Pareek, the first lady officer in BSF, whereas SQN LDR Anioushka Lomas was leading the 9 Members of IAF contingent.
 
 The Joint BSF-IAF Camel Expedition- 2017 entered in Punjab on September 23rd , 2017 at Border Out Post Nejeke, Abohar. Further, this Joint BSF - IAF Camel Expedition- 2017 covered around 316 kilometers and passed through border areas as well as towns of sector Abohar, Ferozepur and Amritsar before culminating at Attari on October 2nd where a gala closing ceremony was organized.
 
 Nirmal Milkha Singh, former captain, Indian women’s volleyball team ,  , Arjuna Awardee and Ronak Pandit, Indian sports shooters , BSF, Inspector General, Punjab frontier Mukul Goyal were among others who were present on the occasion .
 
 Kataria informed that the expedition's other aims were to build the positive image of BSF and to promote the spirit of adventure and enterprise among the population particularly youth and women in India. “It will motivate and inspire Indian youth particularly the women folks towards adventurous events being women expedition which has passed through the borders” said he adding that the same would also promote spirit of national Integration, adventure and patriotism amongst the Indian women population. 
 
