Pune: Four-time   corporator Mukta Shailesh Tilak, married to the great grandson of freedom fighter Lokmanya Tilak, was elected as the mayor of Pune on Tuesday.

 She defeated NCP’s Nanda Lonkar to become the BJP’s first mayor in the 67-year history of the Pune Municipal Corporation ( ).
 
 Republican Party of India (RPI)’s leader Navnath Kamble (fought election on BJP’s ticket) became the deputy mayor. He defeated Lata Rajguru of the  .
 
 The withdrawal of Shiv Sena’s Sangita Thosar and Vishal Dhanwade, who were in the fray for the posts of mayor and deputy mayor, respectively, before the votes were cast turned the triangular fight straight.
 
 Tilak bagged 98 votes with the support of RPI corporators, who contested elections on the BJP’s symbol. The NCP’s mayoral candidate, Lonkar, received support from the Congress members. She bagged 52 votes, including three from Independents as well as an   corporator.
 
 The Shiv Sena decided not to vote for anybody and as many as 10 of its corporators remained in the back seat. The two members of the MNS did not cast vote either.
 
 Addressing the elected members after her victory, Tilak said, “Our focus will be on development issues rather than on political mudslinging. Apart from completing the pending projects, the party will also work on new initiatives. One environment programme in each ward will be organized on monthly basis.”
 
 Tilak, having a master’s degree in psychology, also learnt German from the Savitribai Phule Pune University. Besides being an MBA in marketing, she has studied journalism.
 
 Speaking at the general body meeting, the Congress and the NCP urged that the BJP should take other parties into confidence while taking decisions about civic issues.
 
 “There is a need for collective decision-making in the civic administration. The state and the Union governments have made several promises to citizens. They all should be fulfilled,” said Chetan Tupe, the leader of opposition.
 
 For Tilak, the ninth woman mayor of Pune, this election was a cakewalk because the BJP gained clear majority in the municipal polls. 
 
 Deputy mayor Kamble said after his election, “Though we have contested election on the BJP’s symbol and technically are a part of it now, we shall make sure that we create our own identity in the coming time. Our fight for members of the downtrodden society will continue.”
 
 
