KOLKATA/MUMBAI: In a major overhaul, the RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group is set to unveil a four-way split of CESC, the conglomerate’s holding company. Goenka plans to demerge   into stand-alone listed entities focused on four business verticals — retail,  , power generation & transmission and power distribution. Industry players said this de-consolidation is aimed at unlocking better value for distinct businesses that suffer currently from ‘conglomerate discount’ (the lower valuation that companies from different industries together get under a single entity than when they are listed separately). The announcement is expected on Thursday. 

 It is learnt that   (P) Ltd, the holding company of listed  , will also be listed along with the group’s retail arm Spencer’s and two power businesses. Spen Liq holds 54.8% of First Source and and is a wholly owned subsidiary of CESC. Also, there are indications that the Kolkata-based group’s real estate business may not be part of the retail firm. “It is likely to be part of either of the power companies,” a source from the industry circle said. The group’s chairman   could not be contacted for his comments on the rejig that is being planned.
 
 Sources close to the development told TOI that the exercise would help the group to achieve the chairman’s target to reach revenues of over Rs 33,000 crore by 2022 from about Rs 16,000 crore now. “In the next five years, the focus of the group would be on bottom line where this restructuring would come in handy,” added another source. 
 
 Currently, in the group’s total revenue, CESC had a consolidated revenue of Rs 12,118 crore in 2015-16 while First Source had a top line of close to Rs 1,000 crore and  , the group’s heavy engineering arm, clocked a revenue of close to Rs 2,000 crore. Saregama India, another listed entity that has the greatest repertoire of Indian music, had a revenue of Rs 214 crore last fiscal while Harrisons Malayalam, also a listed entity, reported a turnover of close to Rs 300 crore. 
 
 The group has presence in power, engineering, education, entertainment, IT, retail, FMCG, plantations and foods. “This was a long-pending restructuring to unlock value of the group flagship, CESC. Although it is predominantly a power utility, but except for a few companies within the group, most of the businesses are under CESC,” a source added. Currently, the power utility has 35 subsidiaries and associate companies across sectors which include power, retail, foods, real estate and BPO. Besides, in the era of unbundling of power utilities, CESC is among the very few power utilities in the country which has generation, transmission and distribution within one entity. Incidentally, CESC now has distribution licence beyond Kolkata, in some other districts of West Bengal. It has recently started distribution in Kota and Bharatpur in Rajasthan and in Noida. 
 
 In the stock market, CESC stock has gained a little over 16% to its current close at Rs 977 on BSE. Market players are positive about the development in the group and the company. “There would be value unlocking post the re-organisation of the businesses. We have seen several instances where the sum of the parts, when taken separately, give a value that is greater than when they are taken within a consolidated structure,” said Arun Kejriwal, director, KRIS, an investment advisory firm. Marketmen also expect those who hold CESC shares now and are expected to get shares of each of the businesses, would also reorganise their shareholding post the de-merger and listing of these businesses. Currently, CESC has a market capitalisation of Rs 12,211 crore.
 
 
