AURANGABAD: A 23-year-old woman was repeatedly raped by a man at different places in the district during the last week. The suspect, who is on the run, raped the woman on the pretext of getting her a job. 

 The Harsul police on Monday registered a case against seven people, including the sister of the suspect, for abetting the crime. They have also managed to arrest the suspect's brother. 
 
 The victim is pursuing her Master of Arts and was looking for a job. She knew the main accused - a resident of village   in Vaijapur tehsil - since her college days. Police inspector   said the woman is a resident of a colony failing under the jurisdiction of Harsul police. "She came in contact with the suspect when she was pursuing her college education. He then increased his intimacy with her on the promise of giving her a job first in a private coaching class and then in his school, which he was going to start for her," he said.
 
 "On February 20, the suspect invited the woman to   area for an interview. He also asked the victim to get her educational certificates along. The accused, instead of conducting the interview, took her to his sister's house in   and raped her," he added.
 
 Later, the victim was forced to marry his brother, who is a divorcee. Accordingly, she got married to him at a temple in the neighbouring Jalna district on February 24.
 
 However, even after her marriage, the accused did not stop. "The day after her marriage, he took the victim to his uncle's farm and raped her. The next day (Sunday) he took her to a lodge near the Baba Petrol pump and raped her again. The accused then asked the victim to go to her parent's house," said an officer.
 
 The victim's parents, who had lodged a missing complaint, were shocked to know about what their daughter had been through.
 
 After initial hesitation, the family reached out to the police station and lodged a formal rape complaint against the main accused and six others. The case has been registered and is being investigated by sub-inspector Dadarao Bankar.
 
