NAGPUR: A ten million dollar note of Zimbabwe, antique Russian and Germany notes, an array of   coins used during the rule of princely kings, erroneously  , numbers on notes which coincide with birth dates of our past prime ministers — all were placed in framed glass boxes for visitors to give a flight to their imagination and delve into the past. 

 This was not all. Notes printed by India for UAE and Pakistan, the first currency note of India, round holed coins of all countries and more such were also displayed for visitors. Nagmoney 2017, a numismatic exhibition held at Mor Bhavan, Buldi, showcased some of the oldest coins and currency, not only of India but the world. Organized by Numismatic Research Institute, the All India Competitive Numismatic Exhibition will continue till Sunday.
 
 The exhibition was inaugurated at the hands of Hansraj Ahir, union minister of state for home affairs. Treasures of The Gupta Empire, a book by Sanjeev Kumar, was released by Ahir. The minister also conferred numismatist Jagdish Agrawal with lifetime achievement award for his contribution to the field.
 
 The competitive exhibition showcased coins and banknotes based on nine categories — ancient and medieval India, Sultanate and Mughal India, Indian princely states, British India and presidency, India republic, world coins and paper money, Indian paper money, tokens and medals and fantasy. Over 35 collectors have come together to display their collections this year, and 48 dealers have set up stalls to either trade or sell collectibles.
 
 This is the ninth year of the exhibition, said  , one of the organizers. “History evolves from these things. When the government printed erroneous notes after demonetisation, people would have got more money if they had given them to collectors, instead of banks. All such things have value,” he said. The non-profit institute aims at preserving ancient heritage, culture and history through the medium of coins and its study. 
 
 Three participants will be awarded with prizes for their contribution, to be judged by a jury. Senior numismatist Girish Veera will be presiding over the valedictory function to be held at 4pm on Saturday. 
 
 
