It's been a tough three months for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) which were left struggling to survive, courtesy demonetization. Dependent on cash transactions, many have been finding it difficult to stay afloat.

 Sectors like tea, jute, handloom, jewellery and beedi have been the worst hit. The reduction of corporate tax from 30 to 25 per cent on income of up to Rs 50 crore could indeed be a lifeline for the ailing MSME sector, many feel.
 
 The sector will also benefit from the Minimum Alternative Tax (MAT) which can now be carried forward for 15 years instead of the existing 10. The MAT extension will boost micro, small and medium industries with lower earnings.
 
 However, the benefit of the tax reduction could be neutralized by the prohibition of cash transactions above Rs 3 lakh, small units apprehended. Smarajit Mitra, senior partner at small enterprise Smarajit Mit ra & Associates Consultancy Services, believes it could have a negative impact. “While the reduction in tax is a positive move, a portion of the benefit will be lost since now we must forego cash transactions above Rs 3 lakh. Small units have to pay sub-contractors in cash, which is often more than Rs 3 lakh. So, it might take some more time for the MSMEs to limp back to normalcy,“ said Mitra.
 
 The tax relief could also breathe life into the steel sector, feels TV Narendran, managing director of Tata Steel. “The government's decision to give the MSMEs a boost is a welcome decision. From the steel industry perspective, betterment of MSMEs will indirectly help us since nearly 40 per cent of India's steel industry consumption is from the MSMEs,“ said Narendran, at a press conference on budget organized by  .
 
 Biswanath Bhattacharya, president, Federation of Small & Medium Industries (FOSMI) thinks the tax relief has come at the right time. “But we had expected more from the government since the MSME sector recruits the highest number of people in the country . The finance minister hinted at the reduction of bank taxes. It would be of great benefit once that happens.“
 
