Mumbai: A Dombivli woman delivered a child at the gate of KEM Hospital in Parel on Wednesday, which was the third day of the resident doctors’ strike that ended on Saturday morning. The family said that the doctors manning the emergency services in the hospital did check her and facilitate diagnosis, but brushed aside her labour pain as a “routine discomfort”.

 The baby emerged just when the mother was alighting the taxi outside the emergency area of the hospital. As she screamed in pain and horror, the father grabbed his baby boy’s tiny head that could have hit the manhole lid under his feet. The hospital staffers and nurses came running with a stretcher on hearing the commotion and rushed the mother and baby to the emergency room.
 
 The father, Dinesh Shah, said they had reached the Parel hospital around 2pm for a check-up on Wednesday. Unaware that the doctors have been on a strike since Monday, the couple wanted to see a gynaecologist as Anita, the mother, was diagnosed with a cystic tumour. “We were told a c-section would be a safe approach to deliver the baby. We wanted to see a doctor and even register for delivery here,” he said, adding that when they set out in the morning on a train she had no complaints of acute pain.
 
 This is the couple’s second child. Dinesh said they only met junior doctors at the emergency ward, who made a call to a senior gynaecologist. “Since Anita was not in labour, they asked us to come back later. But when we insisted, they asked us to get a sonography done. We went to two private centres who declined to do the tests without the doctor’s registration number and certain forms from the KEM hospital,” said Dinesh, who runs a nursery in Dombivli. When he returned to the hospital for the required papers, the doctors told them it can’t be issued as no senior doctors were around.
 
 However, the radiology department at KEM finally carried out the sonography in the evening. “The doctors studied the report and asked us to come back later when the strike was over. When we told them she was very close to her due date of the first week of April, the doctors told us to come back when she was in labour. She only had mild pain at this time which the doctors said was normal at this stage of pregnancy,” said Dinesh. The couple decided to head back and started walking towards Parel station, when she started experiencing excruciating pain. “I immediately hired a cab and dashed to KEM hospital, but the baby started coming out even before we could reach the door of the casualty area,” the father said.
 
 Dean Dr Avinash Supe said the woman was admitted in minutes and taken care of immediately. She is likely to undergo a surgery on Monday for the tumour. Dinesh said she underwent an x-ray, a CT scan and blood tests on Saturday. 
 
 “The doctors must not make patients suffer when their fight is with the government. I could have lost my son,” he said.
 
 
