SURAT: There were no police officers holding important posts in Katargam when the city was recently rocked by   which had resulted in the  . In-charge officers were holding charge then and even now on majority of the posts. The situation is similar in other parts of the city too as vacancies arising out of retirement and transfers of officers have not been filled as yet, sources said.

  was without a regular police inspector after promotion and transfer of P K Diyora in the first week of January. H S Purani, who was police inspector of Amroli police station then, was in-charge of Katargam police station too. Katargam police station got P B Sapra as regular police inspector after the hooch tragedy. Of the four police sub-inspectors (PSI) in Katargam police station, two were on bandobast duty at Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit (VGGS) in Gandhinagar when the   happened. What's more, Amroli police station has three PSIs and when the events were unfolding, one was on sick leave and two were at Gandhinagar on VGGS duty. 
 
 Katargam police station comes under D-division, but it did not have a regular assistant commissioner of police (ACP). M N Kanzariya, ACP C-division, was holding its charge then. Similarly, the post of deputy commissioner of police (DCP) zone III to whom this ACP reports, is also without an incumbent. R P Barot, DCP zone I, was holding charge for zone III.
 
 Many important posts are still vacant in the city and these include that of joint commissioner of police (JCP) crime and traffic, DCP zone II and DCP headquarters. Police inspectors in detection of crime branch, prevention of crime branch and special operations group are considered key posts, but they too remain vacant. Likewise, there are vacancies for the posts of police inspectors in many police stations with their responsibilities now falling upon the in-charges of the neighbouring police stations. 
 
 “Many posts of police officers are vacant, but we are hopeful that the appointments will be made soon. However, we are ensuring that the law and order situation remain normal in the city,” city police commissioner Satish Sharma said.
 
