Nagpur: Around 3,000 CCTV cameras at over 650 locations across the city are likely to become operational for security, traffic and civic management after Diwali. Under the Rs520-crore Smart City Solutions Project, the city operation centre (COC) has become functional at the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) new administrative building. The hi-tech centre comprises a video wall with 24 screens. Live feeds of all the CCTVs installed or to be installed across the city will be recorded at the COC. Besides, the NMC team as well as police can also control and handle all the CCTVs sitting at the COC. Ramnath Sonawane, chief executive officer of Smart City’s special purpose vehicle, Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Ltd, told TOI that the city was way behind than other cities under the central government’s Smart City Mission. “It has been possible only due to the vision of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis who ensured planning and commencement of works even before the city was selected for Smart City Mission. The state’s directorate of information technology (DIT) gave good shape to the project and also ensured its implementation,” he said. Sonawane added that the team from NMC and police, under technical assistance of L&T which is executing works of the project, will begin utilizing the CCTVs and other Smart City solutions from October. “All the operations will be done from CoC. Construction of the Command and Control Centre (CCC) on the premises of CP office will begin soon. Thereafter, NMC will operate from COC and police from CCC,” he said. Altogether 3,841 CCTVs are supposed to be installed at 700 locations in and around the city. L&T has completed installation of 2,689 CCTVs at around 650 places. Feeds from over 100 locations are reaching COC, of which recording being done of 21 places at present. NMC or police are not making use of the feeds right now. But the feeds are being utilized on an experimental basis by the L&T team. Installation of CCTVs at remaining 50 locations is likely to be delayed due to construction of Metro rail and flyovers across the city. CCTVs consists of normal cameras with a range of 50m and pan tilt zoom (PTZ) cameras having a 150m range. All the CCTVs, COC and CCC will be connected with optical fibre cable network of 1,200km. L&T has successfully completed laying of 950km optical fibre cable within 10 months. The remaining work is expected to be completed in the next one month. Also, L&T has started installing adaptive traffic management system to monitor signal jumping and automatic number plate detection at 25 locations. With this system, signals will function as per traffic load on the roads in an automatic manner. Status of Other Smart Solutions * 710 of 790 Wi-Fi access points made available * Of the 25 locations, adaptive traffic management system to monitor signal jumping and automatic number plate detection made available at Laxmi Nagar and Shankar Nagar squares * 400 smart lights installed under the Smart Streetlight system on the strip between Khamla Square and Japanese Garden Square * Public announcement systems — IP-based speakers, environment censors and display boards — erected at ten of the total 50 locations * 15 of the total 158 Smart Bus Stops developed * Smart Solutions installed in 185 of 239 city buses * Construction of Smart Parking with 85 slots commenced * 10 drones that can be in air for 60 minutes at a time and fly up to 100m as well as mobile surveillance vehicle likely by December