NEW DELHI: In a surprise move, attorney general   told the   on Wednesday that   leader and former UP minister Azam Khan’s statement alleging that the Meerut gang rape case could be a conspiracy to malign the then   government would fall within the purview of   guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a).

 The SC had taken umbrage at Khan’s statement and entertained a petition filed by the victim’s father who said the minister’s remark would vitiate the investigation and sought transfer of the case outside UP. The apex court also wanted to examine whether a minister could make such a statement, especially in a sexual assault case. Khan subsequently tendered an unconditional apology and the apex court dropped proceedings against him.
 
 Appearing before a bench of Justices Dipak Misra and A M Khanwilkar, the AG said Khan’s statement would fall within the free speech category and if anyone was aggrieved by it, he/she could take the SP leader to court by filing civil/criminal defamation case.
 
 “Reading in more restrictions on free speech to give it a restrictive meaning, in addition to the restrictions imposed by the Constitution under Article 19(2), would harm the right to freedom of speech and expression and seriously stifle express of opinion by politicians, noted personalities and journalists,” Rohatgi said. But the bench is examining whether right to free speech could be impacted by right to dignity and privacy, both included in right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, of a person, especially in sexual assault cases.
 
 “Do not forget that women suffer the worst assault on their dignity and identity through sexual assaults,” the bench told the AG.
 
 Amicus curiae Fali S Nariman said he had not examined right to free speech from the aspect of another preferred right under Article 21.
 
 He sought two weeks to examine the issue from this perspective and suggest possible means to strike a balance between the two rights.
 
 The bench said, “The core issue, as is projected before us, is whether the right conferred under Article 19(1)(a) is to be controlled singularly by the language employed under Article 19(2) or also the other fundamental right, that is the right under Article 21 would have any impact on it.”
 
 The court accepted senior advocate Harish Salve’s offer to assist the court in the issue. Salve said Article 19(2) might be the only provision that imposes restrictions on free speech but the right under Article 19(1)(a) had its own contours and “it is not boundless”. The court posted the matter for further hearing on April 20.
 
 
