NEW DELHI: A 57-year-old   died after he fell into a  , through a missing slab at the pavement, near a  's Mayur Vihar Phase III. Though the man was pulled out of the drain, he   and was declared dead on arrival at Noida's Metro hospital.

 The victim, Anil Gupta, was returning from an evening walk in the park around 4pm on Sunday . A preliminary probe suggests he started walking on the pavement, where several slabs were missing, to avoid a puddle on the road. Eyewitnesses said he lost his balance and fell into the drain. The pavement is maintained by PWD, whose officials suspect foul play. They said Gupta could have been pushed. Police have launched a probe into the allegation. Hearing Gupta's calls for help, a passerby alerted the guards at the park and they pulled him out of the drain. Since he felt breathlessness, Gupta was taken to a private hospital and his family informed about the accident.
 
 The family said Gupta had a car accessories shop in Mayur Vihar which was being run by his nephew. He lived with his wife and daughter-in-law in pocket V, Mayur Vihar phase III. His elder son is a businessman in London while his younger son works in a private company in Berlin. Gupta's daughter lives in Kanpur.
 
 Gupta's nephew, Deepak, who helps him run the accessories business, reached the local hospital and found him unconscious. He was referred to Metro hospital in Noida, but he died on the way, Deepak said.
 
 “He never suffered from a heart ailment or any other condition that could lead to him falling unconscious. He had been going for his evening walk for the past 10 years.The stretch outside the park remains flooded through the monsoon and my uncle had said that the foul-smelling water often nauseated him,“ said Deepak.
 
 “This is purely the negligence of PWD, which left the drain open,“ he added.
 
 PWD officials said as one of the three slabs covering the drain had not been kept properly. “There are miscreants who remove slabs to steal reinforcement iron rods etc. We don't know who had removed the slab. Though the drain is four-five feet deep, it didn't have much water. The water level would have been just one to 1.5 feet. A person can't drown in it. The opening was covered on Monday morning, within hours of the accident,“ an official said.
 
 People in the area said they did not see anyone pushing Gupta, arguing with him or fleeing the place.
 
 Meanwhile, opposition parties slammed the AAP government for PWD's “callousness“. Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said, “Callous and corrupt working of the Arvind Kejriwal government is responsible for death of Anil Gupta. Action should be initiated against all officials including PWD minister Satyendar Jain."
 
 Police said they have sent Gupta's body for an autopsy .A case would be registered after this. The CCTV footage from the area is being scanned to verify the allegations by PWD officials.
 
 Times View
 
 When people die or suffer injury due to the negligence of civic authorities, the civic agency concerned must compensate the family of the victim. In this case, for instance, the compensation must be based on a calculation of the current value of the victim's earning potential over the remainder of his working life and a punitive component of not less than Rs 10 lakh. The agency in turn must fix individual responsibility for this negligence and make the person concerned pay a portion, say 10%, of the compensation amount. This must be made the norm in all such cases. Only when individual officials are held responsible and made to shell out a part of the compensation will we see civic authorities taking safety norms seriously and ensuring that their negligence does not lead to such wanton loss of life or avoidable injuries.
 
