It is that time of the year again. Time to sit together, shell peanuts, indulge in season's comfort food – gajak, til, puffed rice, revri and chikki, have delightful conversations, sitting huddled around a cozy bonfire. The festival of   is culturally significant as it celebrates the winter solstice – the longest night, and the shortest day of the year. The Hindu God of fire, Lord Agni is worshipped on this day and it’s also associated with the harvest of rabi crops. The folklore of Dulla Bhatti is sung with much fervour, with dhol beats adding to the enthusiasm. This bonfire festival, although observed in other parts of the country, is especially celebrated with great pomp and show in Punjab. Followed by Makar Sakranti or Maghi, which is the first day of the month of Magha, according to the Punjabi calendar. But in India, this occasion is also associated with commemorating the birth of a newborn, particularly a baby boy.
 
  This is how the bonfire festival has always been for me, and for many belonging to my generation. However, this year, Lohri has been a revelation. We were invited for two grand Lohri celebrations – both by the parents of a newborn baby girl.
  
  Besides the scrumptious feast for the guests, there were tireless beats of dholki, which ensured everyone danced and reveled in the festivities. Songs were sung with full vigour, and the legend of Dulla Bhattiwas reminisced again. He had been the saviour of several Punjabi women, who were abducted and sold for slavery during the medieval times. He would rescue them, and get them married off to young men in the village and the women went on to live a life of honour and respect. Two of those women - Sundri and Mundri got married on the day of Lohri, and hence, the folklore was immortalized.
  
  'Sundar Mundariye ho
  Tera kaun vichara ho,
  Dulla Bhatti wali ho ....'
  (Beautiful girl,
  Who will think about you,
  Dulla of the Bhatti clan will....)
  
  As the family and friends continued to sing in the background, I thought of Dulla Bhatti, the legendary Robin Hood of Punjab. The festival that began as a celebration of freedom of girls was transformed into a mere jollification and merrymaking of a boy's birth. However today, watching these families welcome the girl child and celebrate her first Lohri, he must be surely smiling from up somewhere.
  
  That was essentially the essence of Lohri – to mark the end of gloomy days, of both winters and girls. It is time to let the holy fire burn away negativity, resentment and smallness in thought.
  
    everyone!
  
  
  
