KOCHI:   Limited(Cial) invited   (RFP) from global players for the development, operation and running of the duty-free stores at the new international terminal, T3, which is set to open in second week of March.

 The new duty-free store will be more than twice the size of the present one at Cial's terminal (T1). The store at T3 has the combined area of 33,000 sq ft, with 25,000 sq ft allocated at arrival and 8,000 sq ft at the departure. Currently, the store, which is run and managed by Cial at T1 arrival is 10, 000 sq ft at arrival and 4,000 sq ft at departure.
 
 "As per the proposal we have received, outsourcing the management of our duty-free stores seems to be more profitable for us. It will also reduce our expenditure," said  , airport director.
 
 The duty-free stores to be set up at the new terminal will share a minimum 40% of their revenue with Cial. They are strategically located so that all passengers arriving or departing must pass through the store in order to access the boarding gates or the airport exits, respectively. Nearly 90% of the sale is achieved from the duty-free stores located at the arrivals.
 
 During 2015 -16, Cial recorded revenue of Rs 212.49 crore from their duty-free sales, which was 28.5% higher than their previous year.
 The revenue from duty-free sales accounted for 40.51%of Cial's total revenue during 2015 -16. In March 2016, Cial transferred their  , which amassed a revenue of Rs 5.6 crores , under a new subsidiary company named Cial Duty-free and Retail Services Limited (CDRSL) for more operational focus and for tapping growth opportunities as duty-free operations do not comprise Cial's core activity.
 
 "The new duty is much larger. A section in our departure store will be exclusively dedicated to for Indian souvenirs and cultural items," said Jacob T Abraham, assistant general manager (retail business). He said the duty-free will relocate to the new terminal on March 11. As per the tender requirements, the operator awarded the tender is expected to start operating the store before September 2017.
 
 The tender applicants are expected to have operated duty-free service for at least five continuous years and have a presence in three international airports, from which at least two of the airport handled a minimum of five million international passengers in the past three years.
 T1, which is much smaller than T3, handled the movement of 4.63 million passengers in 2015 - 16.
 
