By Vinay Dalvi

 The   have arrested a 48-year-old man who duped 700   to the tune of Rs 18 crores through a fake job portal. Hemant Ramdev Suri, a resident of   had started a   -  , claiming it to be a subsidiary of another popular employment website.
 
 According to the police, Suri would procure personal details of job aspirants and call them claiming to be a recruiter from the popular portal. He would tell them he had job opportunities for them at higher positions with big multinational companies. If interested, the victims were then asked to pay certain ‘fees’ for various purposes in order to secure the job; this also included payments for international diploma courses that were allegedly a ‘prerequisite’ by certain multinational companies.
 
 The cops said Suri, who initially ran an inverter business, has been cheating and swindling since 2015. The main complainant in the case -Sudhanshu Patnaik, who works in a car showroom, met Suri about a month ago when the latter promised him a higher post and double pay in another car showroom. Patnaik paid him more than Rs 3 lakhs in total for various trainings and courses, after which Suri switched off his phone and cut all communication. Acting on his complaint, Sion police had initiated investigation into the scam.
 
 “He would call the people and tell them that a company needed a sincere candidate like him but to start the process the candidate first needed to get registered with the portal by paying a sum of Rs 20,000 as registration,” said Santosh Gaikwad, API, Sion police station.
 
 After registration, the accused then directed the victim to upload his/her resume on nownaukri.com , and then pay an additional Rs 10,000 for updating their resume. “He would then call the candidate and tell them that the company had liked the candidates profile but the company wanted them to take a small refresher or training course on a particular subject. And for the course, they were asked to pay Rs 50,000 which would be held in a foreign country,” said senior police inspector, Mrudula Lad.
 
 “There are several online complaints on consumer websites against his company. All deposits were made online. When we asked information from PayUmoney - a payment gateway, they said they have made around 700 payments to the accused’s bank account,” said Gaikwad.
 
