GHAZIABAD: A 22-year-old youth and his five accomplices were arrested on Tuesday for the murder of his uncle, the head priest of the Shiv temple at  . Police claimed they have solved the case 10 days after the priest was found dead inside the temple. 

 The prime accused,  , was arrested from Bahraich on Tuesday, where he had fled after committing the crime. According to police, Pappu wanted to take control of the temple from his uncle, Mahant Nasik Giri, and hatched a conspiracy to kill him along with his friends. 
 
 Akash Tomar, SP (city), said, “Following the murder of Mahant Nasik Giri, we suspected his nephew Pappu Rajbhar who was a frequent visitor to the temple.” He further said, “During the course of investigation, we found Pappu was in the city before the murder took place, but after the death, he was untraceable. When we investigated his whereabouts, we traced him to Bahraich and dispatched a team which arrested him from his residence.”
 
 During questioning, Pappu confesed to his crime. “Pappu was under the impression that the temple received donations in lakhs of rupees from devotees, and his uncle kept the money in a trunk within the temple premises,” said Tomar. “During his earlier visit, he was caught by his uncle tampering with a trunk. His uncle rebuked him and asked him to leave, following which Pappu decided to hatch a plan to eliminate his uncle,” added Tomar.
 
 Pappu roped in five of his friends to commit the crime. “Midnight on April 28, when the priest was asleep, the six youths entered the premises and tied up the priest’s legs and hands, strangled him to death, and fled, without stealing anything,” said Tomar. 
 
 His body was discovered the next day by devotees, who informed the police. Thereafter, an FIR was lodged with Sihani Gate police station. 
 
 Following his arrest, Pappu spilled the beans, which led to the arrest of Deepak Mishra, Avadhram Mishra, Ashok Puri, Tribhuvan alias Mohan Giri and Dinesh Pasi. “All five have been arrested from Bahraich and Sharavasti border, after Pappu revealed their whereabouts,” said Tomar.
 
