BAREILLY: With the city reeling under near  ,   here have expressed concerns about increased aggression in those already affected with   According to doctors at the  , there has been a rise in 10% (approximately 30 cases every day) in the number of patients visiting the facility in the past fortnight. Temperatures in large swathes of UP have been hovering around and above 40 degrees centigrade, with the city recording a high of 44 degrees Celsius till date. This, experts said, has led to an increase in cases of frayed nerves and subsequent acts of violence.
 
  “There has been a spike in the number of mentally-ill people visiting our hospital in the last couple of weeks. Those already stressed or suffering from anxiety-related disorders become restless and aggressive. For instance, people already vulnerable might see themselves getting involved in brawls. They may throw items at other people standing nearby or even abuse them physically,” said Dr C P Mall, director of the mental hospital.
  
  For those already admitted in the facility, Dr Mall said medicines were given to control physiological changes in their behavior. In the past couple of weeks, the hospital’s out-patient department (OPD) has seen a footfall of 300 patients every day. Of these, nearly 10% have complained of aggression starting from the month of May as a sweltering heatwave has swept across the state.
  
  People belonging to various parts of Western Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Nepal visit the Bareilly mental hospital for treatment. Director Mall believes that the number of cases may go up substantially as sensitivity to heat and consequent aggressive behaviour see a steep rise in patients.
  
  Elderly people and those with a family history of mental illness are the most vulnerable, said experts. “There are chances that people inherit mental illness. The symptoms should be detected and treatment should start as soon as possible,” added Mall.
  
  Asked about the precautionary measures that should be taken to avoid stress and violent behavior during summer, he said, “People should avoid going out of their houses during noon when temperatures are at their peak.”
  
  He also explained how winter brings about an opposite reaction in people. “The same patients who show aggressiveness during summer months will tend to withdraw into themselves, avoid routine work and prefer not to talk to anyone,” he said.
  
  Meanwhile, Dr Ashish Kumar, psychiatrist at the district hospital said, “During extreme weather conditions, the purines (organic compounds that play an essential role in the synthesis of DNA and RNA and substances that can be broken down to form uric acid in our bodies) increase in our bodies which leads to aggressive behavior. Besides, elderly and people suffering from stress, who do not take medication, are likely to suffer more from violent behavior.”
  
  Talking about precautionary measures, Kumar said, “If there is less body fluid, the medicines can become toxic. People should drink at least three to four litres of water daily to maintain the body’s water balance. People should also cover themselves as much as possible to before stepping out in the Sun.”
