NAGPUR: After raising several issues at city level, the   (AAP) has decided not to contest any civic election including that of   (NMC), this year. However, a section of AAP workers led by Jammu Anand have decided to throw their hats into the ring under the banner of Aam Aadmi Shahar Vikas Manch (AASVM). This initiative is not supported by the party leaders.

 Preeti Sharma Menon, national executive member of AAP, had recently issued a press communique stating that the party was not contesting any local body elections in Maharashtra, scheduled in February 2017. “We are not supporting any party, panel or individual candidate either. In the absence of a state body,   volunteers in every district are fighting corruption head on and are engaged in a number of social and political causes and serving the people of Maharashtra,” she told TOI on Monday.
 
 Commenting on AAVSM, Menon said that it was not clear whether Anand was even a member of AAP. “He was earlier a member of the party but had quit. Even if he is a member, we don’t support any of his election related activities. He has no right to use the party’s name for civic polls. He is free to contest polls as an independent,” she added.
 
 Another AAP national executive member Devendra Wankhade also confirmed that the party was not supporting AAVSM or any other panel or party in any way.
 
 Anand has however, claimed that AAP leaders had allowed its members to contest the election as independent candidates, he claimed. Anand said the decision was taken after assessing the local political situation wherein it was observed that people need another alternative than the BJP and  . “The 10 years of BJP rule in the city will be remembered as most corrupt, scandalous and which had allowed the perpetrators to scot free. The latest ‘pothole and bitumen’ scandal is still fresh in the minds of citizens and the anger is visible,” Anand said, adding “People are looking for an alternative to the traditional parties like the BJP and Congress.” He also alleged that BJP has privatized almost every municipal service and introduced a new regime of consultants.
 
 On opposition party in the NMC, Anand claimed that the Congress is daydreaming that it could capitalize on the failure of BJP. But, the people are not interested in Congress either, he said. “In this scenario, AASVM is the only citizen-centric alternative choice and hence we have appealed to citizens, especially youth and professionals having clean image to come forward and contest the polls on manch platform.
 
 AAP had burst into the city’s political scene in 2014 when its former state president Anjali Damania had decided to contest parliamentary elections with the sole objective of defeating BJP candidate Nitin Gadkari. While she polled 69,081 votes against Gadkari’s 5,87,767, she hogged a lot of limelight before polls due to several allegations of corruption against Gadkari. 
 
 After the parliamentary election, the party could not maintain the momentum it had generated in the first quarter of 2014. It did not contest assembly elections held in October 2014. However, then the city activists raised several issues related to the city.
 
