MUMBAI: The city’s vehicular population is bursting at the seams. Over the past five years alone, the number of vehicles has grown from two million to three million, an increase of 50%, said sources.
 
  However, the road length in Mumbai, at around 2,000km, has not changed significantly during the period. Vehicle density has thus increased to approximately 1,500 vehicles per km, from 935 between 2011-12 and 2015-16.
  
  The number of private cars and SUVs on the road has also crossed the 9 lakh mark—a 45% increase over five years, sources added. As for two-wheelers, the population now stands at over 17 lakh—with the bike density up to 855 two-wheelers per km from 565.
  
  With the burgeoning vehicular population and the almost unchanged road length, transport experts have demanded strengthening of the public transport system and dissuading citizens from bringing private cars on roads. They fear that the increase in vehicles can lead to more congestion and pollution this year.
  
  State transport commissioner   said that this year his department would encourage use of public transport and provide last-mile connectivity to commuters. “The objective will be to minimize the use of private cars and two-wheelers in a bid to reduce congestion, traffic snarls and daily pollution,” he said. Some of the measures could include adding more share autorickshaw and taxi services on feeder routes, outside railway snd metro stations and availability of CNG-run fleetcabs, taxis and aggregator cabs round the clock.
  
  BEST general manager   said carving out dedicated bus corridors in the island city and suburbs and plying buses at a frequency of around 80 buses per hour on a stretch (ferrying 4,000 commuters) can be a good solution. Each bus can replace at least eight private cars.
  
  Transport experts fear the rise in vehicles will lead to parking woes. “There is an urgent need for a proper parking policy and imposing congestion tax in business hubs. Arterial roads should be kept free of any parking (on both sides of the road) during peak hours. It will free up road space and allow movement of 50% more vehicles, especially buses,” said A V Shenoy of Mumbai Vikas Samiti.
  
  Transport expert   said that there was a dearth of good AC buses, which can be the only solution to keep private cars at bay. Deputy RTO Sanjay Sasane said the floating population of vehicles from Thane, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan to Mumbai was also a cause for concern. “Also, there is a need for multi-tier parking space at mass transportation stations,” he added.
  
  
  
