HYDERABAD: A stolen car was used by culprits in the failed robbery bid at Muthoot Finance, Mylardevpally , but Cyberabad police are racking their brains to find out why their Gujarat counterparts did not register a case for three months when the getaway Tavera was stolen from Valsad.

 Tavera's actual owner Vinod Purohit had parked his vehicle outside his residence and later discovered that it was stolen. Though the vehicle owner approached police immediately , the local Valsad police did not register a case for three months. Had the Gujarat police acted immediately on the complaint, the gang's evil designs could have been nipped in the bud itself.
 
 Till date, police have failed to get any leads in the robbery bid. The investigators dealing with the case were waiting for information from others states to identify the accused, whose act was caught on CCTV on the day of the robbery attempt. Cyberabad police commissioner   wrote letters to police units of 14 states to help them identify the culprits involved in the   One of the reasons for delay in identifying the accused could be that many of the states in North India and Maharashtra were still following manual procedure to verify records of the accused available with them.
 
 “Initially, we had doubts over the vehicle owner as a case was not registered after his vehicle was stolen. However, when we verified, we found that he did approach police, but the local unit did not register a case for three months. The Valsad police wanted to rule out the angle of any financier taking away the vehicle as the stolen Tavera was still under hypothication,'' a senior Cyberabad police officer told TOI.
 
 Based on available information like   recovered at the Patancheru ORR toll plaza and other locations, the officials now suspect that on the day of the offence, the robbers did not have any pilot vehicle ahead of the Tavera. After abandoning the vehicle at Happy Homes Apartment at Upparpally in Rajendranagar after the failed bid, the six culprits might have split into smaller groups, took different modes of transport and fled the location.
 
 The investigators discovered that the toll gate staff, while entering the vehicle registration number, made a wrong entry . Instead of 3711, had he entered it as 5711while issuing the payment receipt.However, it was a fake   plate with TS code.
 
 In all probability. the culprits might have abandoned the arms in their   fleeing Hyderabad as checking was intensified by police after the offence.
 
