New Delhi: Two men were killed and five others were injured when their   rammed a jugaad (a three-wheeled cart powered by a scooter engine) and then overturned after hitting a divider on the Najafgarh-Bahadurgarh road in southwest   on Saturday night. The men travelling in the Nissan Terrano were heading to Gurgaon to attend a wedding. The driver and car owner sitting in the front seat were killed on the spot.

 Around 11.35pm, the owner of the vehicle, Shiv Raj, was on his way to Gurgaon with his neighbours from Julana village in Jind. When the vehicle reached an empty stretch near Essar petrol pump, the driver Ajay started speeding to reach the venue early. When the jugaad came in front of him, he took a sharp turn to avoid hitting it and lost control of the vehicle.
 
 The SUV first rammed the vegetable cart and then hit a footpath. The vehicle skidded for about 100 metres before ramming a tree due to which the front portion of the car was completely damaged. The vehicle overturned after that. The rear seat of the vehicle somehow came off and was pushed out of the door during the impact, which saved the others.
 
 Shiv Raj and Ajay suffered severe injuries on their head and face due to the  . The cart driver had a narrow escape as he landed on a pile of dust after getting hit by the SUV.
 
 Locals informed the police and fire brigade. The vehicle was cut open with gas cutters to remove the bodies by the firemen. Three of the five other occupants have been identified as Narender, Vivekanand and Anil. All seven men were taken to Rao Tula Ram hospital where Shiv Raj and Ajay were declared dead on arrival.
 
 The cart driver was also admitted to a hospital with injuries but was released after treatment. Five occupants of the SUV were later shifted to Safdarjung hospital. The condition of two of them is serious. Doctors told the police that they would be kept under observation before their statements are recorded to determine what led to the  .
 
 The family   of the deceased and injured have been informed about the accident. Shiv Raj was a former sarpanch of his village and owned brick kilns.
 
 A case under IPC sections of causing death due to negligence and rash and negligent driving has been registered. Police suspect that the SUV driver had dozed off. A few bottles of country-made liquor have been recovered from the SUV, but it has not yet been confirmed whether the driver was drunk.
 
 
