BHOPAL: The state government is evidently betting big on its  . So long a city with just one  ,   is getting three more at a go — nothing short of a bumper draw.

 While the historic Minto Hall — which once housed the Vidhan Sabha — is being converted into one these luxury hotels, the familiar Hotel Lake View Ashok is getting an upgrade from three stars to five. The location for the third hotel is the picturesque Kotra Sultanabad area near MANIT, say sources. Minto Hall overlooks the quaint Lower Lake and Hotel Lake View Ashok offers breathtaking views of Upper Lake. 
 
 Though the city is let down by poor air connectivity, the tourism department has big hopes of its plans to attract high-end tourists. For a decade, Bhopal has had only one 5-star hotel — the imposing 101-room Marriott at Arera Hills. And it sorely lacks three- and four-star hotels as well, say officials. The windfall is expected to break the drought in hospitality industry.
 
 “There is a dearth of good hotels in Bhopal. We expect at least three 5-star hotels in the state capital,” said   tourism commissioner and secretary Hari Ranjan Rao. The tourism board got cracking on April 10 and there will be more focused effort in terms of inviting investments in the state, he added.
 
 The Madhya Pradesh State Tourism Development Corporation (MPSTDC) is setting up all three on Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode. Two of the locations — Minto Hall and Kotra Sultanabad — have been bid out to private parties, say sources.
 
 At Kotra Sultanabad, MPSTDC has already given 4.5 acres of land to a private party to build a hotel according to norms set by the tourism ministry. “We are in the process of acquiring Indian Tourism Development Corporation’s Hotel Lake View Ashok, which will be the third asset to be converted into a five-star property,” said Jaimon Mathew, GM-operations MPSTDC. Officials said Lake View Ashok is a joint venture of ITDC and MPSTDC. The shifting of the entire venture to MPSTDC is at its final stages as ITDC has agreed to offload its 51% share to the state. 
 
 The flow of tourists to Madhya Pradesh — the heart of Incredible India — has kept increasing despite there being very few good places to stay, barring in Indore and Ujjain, say officials. “Bhopal needs at least five 5-star hotels. Not only tourists, delegates attending international conferences at Bhopal have to face a tough time getting proper accommodation,” said an official, adding that if 3-star properties are coming up in Bhopal, it is an indicator that there is a rising need for rooms in the luxury segment. Officials believe that rise in 5-star properties in Bhopal will see a change in profile of visitors, with more quality tourists coming in. And this, in turn, will make a case for better air connectivity, they hope.
 
 
