SHIMLA: At a time heavy snowfall has thrown normal life out of gear and intense cold has forced people to remain indoors, tribal residents of remote   in   district of Himachal Pradesh, currently witnessing temperature several degrees below normal, will celebrate the birth of a girl child by organising “Gochi or Gotsi” festival on January 23. While in rest of   of tribal district, Gochi is held to celebrate the birth of a baby boy, residents of Peukar also celebrate the arrival of baby girl in their family.

 These days, minimum temperature of Lahaul-Spiti is being recorded around 12 degrees below normal. In the month of February, villages located in Bhaga valley or Gahar valley between Keylong and Satingri celebrate Gochi in the houses where a son was born during the preceding year. But in Peukar having 20 houses along with son the birth of daughter too is celebrated. After the worship of the village deity is over, people move in to group and visit all their houses where children are born. Drinking and dancing go together along with archery competition, sometimes all through the night.
 
 Chhering Tashi Chherzipa a resident of Peukar said this time village would be celebrating the birth of   born in October last year. Dolma’s parents- Sonam Wangyal and Tenzin- would be making all arrangements for the festival. “People in our village never differentiate between girl and boy and treat them equally and this   is testimony to this,” he added.
 
 Another villager Sonam Chhering said that at time when girl child sex ratio is dwindling in rest of country and government is forced to launch campaigns like “Beti Hai Anmol” to save the girl child, residents of Peukar are showing the light to rest of country to treat the girls equal to boys.
 A resident of Billing village, where Gochi is also celebrated but only for the baby boy, Kunga Bodh Anuji said by celebrating festival for girl child Peukar villagers have set an example to others. He said taking inspiration from Peukar residents, Gochi festival should be celebrated for girl child rest of valley too.
 
 Himachal Pradesh has fixed the target of improving girl child sex ratio in the age group of 0-6 years from 909 as per 2011 census to 940 by 2022. As per 2011 census, child sex ratio (0-6 yr) of the state is 909 which is not satisfactory. Lahaul-Spiti district with child sex ratio of 1033 girls per 1000 boys was not only best in the state but also in the entire nation.
 
