Singer, VJ, performer and an actress,  , who was in the city for a performance recently, talks about everything she loves about Hyderabad.

 
 
 I keep coming to Hyderabad very often. I was here was for Keshav Reddy’s wedding last month as well. I just love being here, it’s one of my favourite cities in India. Whether it’s the city’s history, culture or the welcoming people there is plenty to love about Hyderabad. And I never miss to have the Hyderabadi biryani with mirchi ka salan whenever I’m here.
  
 
 I’m somebody who’s not persuasive, I cannot go out asking for work or have a manager to get me work, I always react to what I get. Likewise, I did Mahesh Babu’s 1:   when I was offered it. I have been getting offers from Tollywood, but I want to do something bigger and better than Nenokkadine. So yes, I’m waiting for Tollywood to call me again and I’m game for singing, dancing or acting as well. 
 
 
 
 A lot of people tell me I’ve a thing for ‘special appearances’ or ‘special item numbers’, well yes, I love being part of special things (laughs). See, I’m a performer — I sing, I dance and do live shows every other month in different parts of India as well as the world. 
 I had released my album Sajan Main Nachungi a couple of months back which was well received and I’m working on another one right now. Soon I’ll be singing for a couple of Bollywood films as well.
 
 
 
 Seven years back, when I was a VJ turned singer and later got into acting, I was criticised for not choosing one profession. But today, when actresses like Alia, Shraddha or Sonakshi sing while acting in films, it is said that they are multitaskers. Well, I believe I was a little ahead of my time, which I am always and will be. 
 
 
 
 There are lot of assumptions about my relationship status. Well, as of now I’m single! I’m a one man woman who can be into pure relationship, plus I’m definitely a diehard romantic.... For me it’s love like La La Land... you know (laughs). I guess probably because of my glamourous image, I’ve never been into major link ups. So a lot of people are left wondering what’s happening in her personal life. 
 
 
