Pune: Indian universities and colleges have the potential to host almost five lakh   a year on their campuses. However, they are able to attract only 32,000 students annually, according to the   (AIU).

 The AIU revealed this during the inauguration of a three-day international conference on the changing landscape of internationalisation of higher education conducted by Symbiosis International University in association with AIU at its Lavale campus on Sunday. 
 
 Union minister of human resource and development   was the chief guest. He said institutions must strategize policies in such a way that intake of foreign students is utilised to full capacity.
 
 Furqan Qamar, secretary general of AIU, said that Indian universities can enrol up to 15% of foreign students as against their total intake capacity. “So considering all campuses within the country, there is potential for about 4.8 lakh foreign students to enrol in Indian universities annually. However, only about 32,000 students register yearly, which is way below the capacity.”
 
 In Pune, approximately 3,000 foreign students from 85 countries enrol for higher education annually, while close to 2,000 students have enrolled at colleges affiliated to the   (SPPU).
 
 Javadekar said, “It is time for universities in the country to make optimum use of the intake capacity for foreign students and strategize their policies accordingly. There is a need to transform mundane policies and extend its boundaries in the context of enrolling more foreign students.”
 
 He added that this could be achieved by developing a strategy for building world class universities and also by initializing internationalisation of higher education.
 
 According to Vijay Khare, director of the the international students center at SPPU, Pune is leading in the country for enrolment of foreign students in higher education. 
 
 Khare said, “Pune is a pioneer in enrolment of foreign students, and although the exact figures are unknown as there are several deemed universities in the city, the number is high. Besides taking up degree courses, hundreds of foreign students also undertake short-term certificate courses, which is not documented in higher education enrolment.”
 
