Kolkata: The CPM Central Committee’s decision to keep Sitaram   out of Rajya Sabha has paved the way for Mamata Banerjee to take Congress out of the Left’s clutches.

 The CC didn’t just reject the West Bengal unit’s proposal to field Yechury for yet another term with Congress support, it also refused to back a Congress candidate from West Bengal.
 
 Not only that, the CC made it clear CPM wouldn’t support a consensus candidate either. “An Independent candidate by the opposition parties in West Bengal may be fielded, failing which the West Bengal Left Front may consider contesting,” the CC resolution states, leaving West Bengal Congress leaders in the lurch.
 
 Going by the CPM resolution, the party isn’t going to support a candidate even acceptable to Congress, Trinamool and the Left — which Mamata Banerjee had hinted at on Tuesday when asked about Meira Kumar.
 
 CPM’s response has left state Congress leaders fuming. Calling it a “blunder,” a senior Congress leader said: “The Left won’t ever learn from its mistakes. They have dug the grave for themselves and also put us in a piquant position.”
 
 The Congress high command is now thinking of fielding its own candidate in the Rajya Sabha polls, knowing well it doesn’t have the adequate first preferential votes to get its candidate through from West Bengal.
 
 Even as it is not clear how the drama will unfold in the coming days, the repeated rejections by the Left will definitely dent the opposition understanding, if not an alliance, in West Bengal. The tell-tale signs of this gravitational shift became all too apparent on Wednesday when Banerjee’s party fielded five candidates for the August 8 Rajya Sabha polls, leaving choices open for the sixth seat.
 
 “Frankly speaking, we don’t have the numbers to get the sixth candidate through on our own,” Trinamool Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien said on Wednesday.
 
 Yet, the tell-tale signs of Banerjee’s bid to curry favour with Congress became all too apparent when the Trinamool chief asked O’Brien in public in Delhi on Tuesday to get in touch with Congress and convey her proposal for a candidate acceptable to both Trinamool and Congress.
 
 Banerjee pledged her support for a consensus candidate in advance, possibly to keep CPM at bay. In a house of 294 MLAs, a candidate has to get at least 43 first preferential votes to make it to Rajya Sabha. Going by the numbers, Trinamool doesn’t officially have adequate numbers to get all the five candidates — O’Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, Dola Sen, Manas Bhuiyan and Shanta Chhetri — through.
 
 Trinamool, according to the official tally, has 211 MLAs, four short of the 215 required votes to send all five to the Upper House. Yet, Trinamool senior and state parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee is confident that all five will make it to Rajya Sabha and “strengthen Mamata Banerjee’s voice in favour of the people”. The reason could be that Trinamool has in store an additional 8-10 votes that it will get from MLAs officially belonging to other parties, mainly Congress.
 
 The Left could have used the 31 first preferential votes they have to get an upper hand in the bargain for a consensus candidate. But with the CPM CC putting such a possibility to rest, the Left and Congress may field party candidates and waste their strength fighting independently, sealing the prospects of adding another opposition voice in Rajya Sabha.
 
 
