PUNE: Two weather stations in  's Vidarbha region recorded the highest day temperature in the country on Thursday. Chandrapur was the hottest city in the country with the day temperature soaring to 44.2 degrees C, followed by Bramhapuri which recorded 43.3 degrees C. 

 The met department has forecast a likely increase in temperature in some parts of Maharashtra, including Pune, after April 10. The mercury could rise to a 41 degrees C by April 11.
 
 As summer picks up, most weather stations in central Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha have been recording high day temperatures, though heat wave conditions have abated considerably during the last few days. 
 
 Chandrapur was the hottest place in India on Wednesday too, with a day temperature of 43.2 degrees C. Many stations in central India's Marathwada, Vidarbha, east  , west Madhya Pradesh, among others, have been recording day temperatures above 40 degrees C. On the other hand, regions in the north and northeast India have been recording maximum temperatures well below the 40 degrees C mark.
 
 Though other parts of the country have been registering instances of pre-monsoon rain, Maharashtra continues to remain dry. Met department officials told TOI on Thursday that the state has no chance of getting such showers at least for the next five days.
 
 An India Meteorological Department (IMD) official told TOI that temperatures in Maharashtra, except parts of Vidarbha, are currently near normal. "However, day temperatures in the south central peninsula, some parts of Vidarbha and east MP are on the higher side. No major change is expected in temperatures in Maharashtra at least during the next five days," he said.
 
 The official said there was no likelihood of pre-monsoon showers in the state till April 11. "There might be some increase in temperatures after five days, in line with the hot weather season picking up," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Pune's day temperature on Thursday stood at 37.7 degrees C, while its night temperature was 17.6 degrees C. At least eight weather stations in central Maharashtra recorded below normal minimum temperatures on Thursday, with Ahmednagar's being the lowest at 16.2 degrees C followed by Pune.
 
 Skymet Weather Services officials meanwhile said that heat wave conditions have finally lessened in parts of India. They said that though day temperatures have dropped considerably in the north  , high temperatures may continue to prevail in isolated parts of east MP, parts of Vidarbha and Marathwada.
 
