, who joined BJP just before the   election in 2016, was appointed convener of   (NEDA) soon after the party’s victory. In charge of finance, health, education, tourism, planning and development, Sarma presented the full-budget of the BJP government in the state. He spoke to TOI about the initiatives taken by   as BJP looks to expand its footprints in the   region. Excerpts:

 
 
 I am humbled and honoured at the opportunity given to me by the party. I have been entrusted with serious responsibilities which allow me to continue working for the people.
 
 
 
 Health and education are key to the well-being of people. We have kick-started a series of measures aimed at ensuring holistic growth of the state through well-designed programmes. Our focus is strengthening the health infrastructures and curbing inefficiencies and corruption. We have also been working on enhancing the quality of education at all levels through recruitment of teachers, setting up new institutions and incentivising good performance.
 
 
 
 We have allocated Rs 667 crore for upgrading 31 professional colleges and universities, plans are afoot to start eight women colleges in minority-dominated areas, three government degree colleges, three polytechnics, 20 BEd colleges and 33 skill development centres. We have also approved 116 model hospitals. 
 
 
 
 Collectively, North East represents a wonderful collage of culture, heritage, talent and diversity. I have been working closely with various political groups to ensure a massive development push in the region. People are yearning for change and NEDA is an ideal platform to bring together all progressive groups to chart out a new course.
 
 
 
 BJP is set to register an impressive win in the upcoming assembly elections.
 
 
 
 We have addressed the aspirations of all strata of society in this PPP — pro-poor, propeople and pro-progress — budget. We continue to pursue a new model of governance — pure politics and public service — designed on personal integrity, political inclusiveness and people participation. We also wish to change the political discourse of Assam for the better and forever. Among the highlights of the budget are twowheeler programme for girl toppers in Class XII exams, programmes for tea garden workers, provision of 1 lakh self-help groups with financial support to the tune of Rs 5 lakh, provision of eggs for all children twice a week under mid-day meal programme and zero interest crop loans to farmers.
 
 
 
 I strongly believe Assam, with its beauty and bounty of natural advantages, is ideally suited for tourism. Our ‘Awesome Assam’ campaign has been received well. We are setting up of a 3-star resort in  , world’s largest river island, Rural Home Stay programme — ‘Amor Alohi’ — to help tourists experience rural life among other things.
 
