KOLKATA: Police commission   and US Consul General Craig Hall laid wreaths at the memorial service in honor of the five Kolkata Police personnel who lost their lives during an attack 15 years ago at the   on January 22, 2002. Family members of the slain policemen were also honored for their sacrifices on Sunday morning. 

 Coming barely four months after the 9/11 attacks in the US, the terror strike at American Center in Kolkata made headlines worldwide. All four policemen killed - Pijush Sarker, Ujjal Burman, Suresh Hembram and Anup Mondal -belonged to the 5th battalion of  . A private security guard had also died in the attack at dawn.
 
 Speaking to TOI on the attack 15 years ago, US consul general Craig Hall said: "Indians and Americans alike, because we are free peoples, living in open societies based on respect for our constitutions and the rule of law, owe our law enforcement colleagues a debt of gratitude for their service and sacrifice in protecting us against the enemies of freedom and civility. We cannot repay the debt we owe them, but we honor their memory by recommitting ourselves to honoring our laws, nurturing our families, strengthening our communities, and protecting the vulnerable among us."
 
 The attack that had happpened during the change of shift when cops had let their guard down for a few crucial moments. Two motorcycle-borne assailants draped in shawls rode down Chowringhee around 6.15am, dodged the checkpoint and sprayed bullets at the police from an AK-47 assault rifle. Later, two groups claimed responsibility for the attack - Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami (HUJI) member Farhan Malik alias Aftab Ansari who claimed the attack was in protest against "the evil empire of America" and   who said he was a member of Asif Raza Commandos. While Ansari was arrested in Dubai later that year, deported to India and sentenced to death along with Jamiluddin Nasir, the capital punishment was later commuted by the Supreme Court and the duo is now serving the prison term.
 
 Hassan, who had evaded arrest for 14 years, was finally nabbed by officers of Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad from Bihar's Aurangabad last year.
 
 
