Bengaluru: The JD(S), which has been trying to push an image of being a secular regional party over the years, is unable to shun the tag of being a Vokkaliga and appa-makkalu (father-sons) party.

 As is its wont in election season this past decade, the JD(S) first family is hogging headlines with the recent spat between national president and former PM H D Deve   and his grandson and political greenhorn Prajwal Revanna.
 
 On Sunday, Gowda said Prajwal had apologized for his remarks of the JD(S) encouraging “suitcase” politics, and said he will continue as an ordinary party worker. But the race is still wide open, with at least five members of the family likely to contest the upcoming 2018 assembly elections and 2019 parliamentary polls. Here’s taking a look at contenders from the Gowda clan: 
 
 H D Kumaraswamy: At 57, the former chief minister and incumbent state president of JD(S) is known to be the face of the JD(S). The youngest son of Deve Gowda, with a bachelor’s degree in science and a film producer and distributor, Kumaraswamy is three-time MLA from Ramanagara and two-term MP from Bengaluru Rural/Kanakapura constituency. As the party’s de-facto CM candidate, Kumaraswamy is likely to contest from Ramanagara for a third term and try to salvage his party’s future.
 
 H D Revanna: The second son of Gowda, H D Revanna, 59, has always been a behind-the-scenes man, and pegged to succeed his father as the most likely candidate for the   seat. The Class 10 pass, seasoned politician has been MLA for four consecutive terms from Holenarsipura in Hassan. He is also certain to contest the 2018 polls from his fiefdom for the fifth time.
 
 Anitha Kumaraswamy: Wife of Kumaraswamy and software engineer, Anitha is one-time MLA from Channapatna. She lost the second time in 2013 and also unsuccessfully contested from   constituency, losing to D K Suresh, brother of energy minister D K Shiva Kumar. Anitha, who almost faded away after the party’s dismal performance in 2014, has revived herself by holding meetings with local JD(S) party workers and community leaders in Channapatna over the past few months. While she faces a stiff challenge from incumbent   C P Yogeshwar, Kumaraswamy has hinted that she may contest for the third time this year.
 
 Bhavani Revanna: Claimed to be more “pro-active” than Anitha in political circles, Bhavani Revanna finally realized her ambition of entering politics earlier last year, albeit in a small role. Elected to Hassan ZP from Halekote in Holenarispura, which is controlled by her husband, Bhavani was pegged to be ZP president. However, she missed the bus after the Congress ensured that its candidate got the seat. While her nascent ambition of contesting an MLA seat continues, the entry of her son Prajwal Revanna may tilt the odds.
 
 Prajwal Revanna: Having nurtured the dream of a political debut ever since he turned 21, Prajwal, the Gowda family’s third generation and son of H D Revanna and Bhavani Revanna, has been hogging the limelight for the wrong reasons. The engineering graduate’s hope of contesting from Belur constituency was shot down by his grandfather. Prajwal, 25, faced a double whammy with his uncle Kumaraswamy unofficially declaring Adaguru H Vishwanath, who recently joined JD(S) from the Congress, as the likely candidate from Hunsur.
 
 Prajwal’s comments of the party encouraging “suitcase” politics further estranged him from the family to secure a 2018 assembly ticket. However, depending on the party’s fortunes, Prajwal may get an outside chance to contest from Hassan LS seat, at present represented by his grandfather. Party patriarch Deve Gowda, 84, has said he will not contest the 2019 parliamentary election.
 
 Nikhil Gowda: A recent entrant into filmdom, the 27-year-old has a chance to contest the 2018 or 2019 polls, if called upon. Son of Kumaraswamy and Anitha, Nikhil has been insulated from politics for a long time and is not active in the JD(S).
 
