BHUBANESWAR: Even as the   is struggling hard to collect pending holding tax from the people, what has come as a surprise is the profile of the big defaulters. Most of them are relatives of a corporator. 

 Information available from the  's tax section revealed that around Rs 10 lakh is pending against Prithiraj Jena, Bijayraj Jena and Adhiraj Jena. While Bijayraj is the husband of the ward-3 corporator Jayanti Jena, the other two are her brothers-in-law. A red letter notice, which is treated as a final warning to habitual offenders, was served to the trio. But, the notice was returned as no one was there at the addresses to which the mail was sent. 
 
 The property, for which the holding tax dues has been pending for the last two years, belongs to the trio. Sources at BMC said the property is located at plot no 442/3998/4322, Patia. Holding tax, a major revenue generating source for the civic body, is collected from all holdings such as residential buildings, commercial buildings, state and central government offices, public sector undertakings, shopping malls and private offices on the basis of plinth area. There are different slabs of tax for different types of holdings. 
 
 Although since the issue of the first phase of the notice, the BMC has been able to collect Rs 2.5 crore, the corporator's relatives seem to be resisting the notice. The BMC, on its part, has also not been able to take punitive action. The BMC, in the first phase, served notices to 192 habitual defaulters on January 25. In the second phase, it will serve notices to 219 more people. "I am not aware of the holding tax dues. I will ask my husband and brothers regarding the matter," the corporator told TOI. Notably, the BMC has set a target of Rs 42 crore for generating tax revenue in the current fiscal. Till February end, it has collected Rs 18 crore. The city has currently around one lakh holdings. Every year, there are about 10% (10,000) defaulters. 
 
 On January 9, the urban body decided to take punitive action against the evaders by obtaining a special permission from the Revenue Division Commissioner (central division), who designated three deputy commissioners of the BMC as certificate officers. 
 
