PATNA: At least 48 PGDM (Post Graduate Diploma in Management) students of the 2015-17 batch will receive their degrees at the annual convocation function of Chandragupt Institute of Management Patna ( ), to be held on March 17. 

 K Sivakumar, faculty of Marketing at   (USA) will be the chief guest at the convocation at which CIMP director V Mukunda Das will present the institute’s annual report and this year’s placement records.
 
 Physics exam: The   (CBSE) conducted physics paper examination for Class XII examinees on Wednesday.
 
 This was the second major exam since the exam process kicked off last week with the English paper. According to the examinees, the questions were tricky, but not tough. 
 
 Navin Kumar, who teaches physics at Notre Dame Academy, said, “There were several direct questions. The numerical sets were easy and the derivation questions were straightforward.” 
 
 Class XII examinees of commerce stream will appear for their Business Studies paper on Thursday.
 
 BIHAR RESEARCH TEAM SYNTHESIZES BARRIUM FERRITE NANO PARTICLES
 
 A team of research scientists from Bihar, led by former Patna University pro-vice-chancellor Ranjit Kumar Verma, has evolved a convenient and efficient method of synthesizing barium ferrite nano particles which have dimensions in the range of 30-40 nano metres (nm). These nano particles are extensively used for making permanent magnets, media storage devices, microwave filters and similar equipment.
 
 Nano particles of barium ferrite are very difficult to synthesize as the cumbersome multi-step process usually requires high temperature and lots of pressure. However, this team has heated the precursor material to barely 500 degrees Celsius followed by temperature quenching. The nano particles thus prepared have improved electrical, magnetic and optical properties for which Barium Ferrite nano particles are known. This breakthrough is being published in the forthcoming issue of the prestigious European research journal, the   and Calorimetry. Its e-edition was published on Wednesday.
 
 Other members of the research team include Amarendra Narayan of Patna University’s Physics department, Rakesh Singh and Abhay Aman of the Nano Science Centre of Aryabhatta Knowledge University, Lata Verma, Amrendra Singh, Anit Kumar and   of Magadh University’s Chemistry department.
 
