JAIPUR:   presidential candidate Meira Kumar getting 34 votes from Rajasthan assembly that has just 24 Congress MLAs and two BSP MLAs, has led the opposition to claim cross-voting in favour of its candidate.

 Congress state president Sachin Pilot said the cross-voting in favour of Kumar indicated resentment in the state BJP ranks. “I thank the BJP MLAs who listened to their conscience and voted in favour of UPA candidate,” Pilot told reporters. He added, “BJP candidates voting for the opposition candidate has proved that the ruling party’s elected representatives were not satisfied with the government’s functioning. The chief minster (Vasundhara Raje) should introspect over it.”
 
 Addressing press conference chief minister Raje said, “This historic support (for   candidate Ram Nath  ) was because of the way the Prime Minister and the BJP national president worked to unite the country. The same way, we all in Rajasthan have voted for Ram Nath ji. On this day, I neither want to count nor want to say who voted (for Kovind) and who did not, or why someone voted and why someone did not. All I want to say is thank you to all who voted.”
 
 The BJP state leaders were tight lipped about the cross-voting but insisted that none from their ranks voted for the UPA candidate. “MLAs from our allies like   (NPP) or National Unionist Zamindara Party (NUZP) or Independents might have voted for the UPA candidate. None from the 161 BJP MLAs in the house have indulged in cross-voting,” said a senior BJP leader. Sources, nevertheless, said at least two BJP MLAs were under scrutiny for cross-voting.
 
 The state assembly has 200-members. On the polling day, the BJP leaders, including party state president Ashok Parnami, claimed support of at least 171 MLAs. This included four MLAs of NPP, two of NUZP and four Independents, besides the 161 BJP MLAs. The ruling alliance, however, fell five short of its claims when the results were declared on Thursday.
 
 Besides its 24 MLAs, the state Congress had claimed support of two BSP MLAs and Independent MLA Rajkumar Sharma. The UPA candidate, however, got seven more than the Congress claim. The party leaders believe that Independent MLAs Hanuman Beniwal, Nandkishore Maharia and Anju Dhanka also voted for the opposition candidate.
 
