GUWAHATI: Even as the flood situation showed slight improvement, one body was recovered on Saturday taking the toll to 24. 

 Dharitri Deka (21) was electrocuted in North Lakhimpur of Lakhimpur district, where nearly 80,000 people are still hit by the deluge. At least six people, including the one on Saturday, have been electrocuted during the current spate of flood across the state, triggering anger among the public against the power department.
 
 The   (ASDMA) said the number of flood-affected districts has come down to 16 on Saturday from 17 on Friday. Also, the number of affected people has also slightly come down to 3.84 lakh from 4.26 lakh.
 
 About 30,000 hectare of croplands continued to be under water as the deluge left swathe of agricultural land damaged. Over 2,000 livestock have been washed away in the current spate of flood. Also 1.36 lakh livestock were affected by the deluge.
 
 Karimganj district in south Assam continues to be the worst hit with 1.4 lakh people still affected by the deluge, that took its worse turn since last month.
 
 As on Saturday, 188 relief camps with 16,705 inmates have been set up in different affected districts.
 
 The Brahmaputra at   in Jorhat, Tezpur in Sonitpur, Goalpara and Dhubri continued to flow above the danger level on Saturday. Its tributaries - Dhansiri in Golaghat and Jia Bharali in Sonitpur - are also in spate and flowing above danger mark. The Kushiyara in Karimganj is also flowing above the danger mark.
 
 On the other hand, 200 families in at least 10 villages - Major Chapori, Eri Chapori, Molual Miri, Molapindha, Natun Mohorichuk, Borgaon, Barun Citadar Chuk, Ujani Jakaibua, Namoni Jakiabua and Monika Pathar - have been affected by floods in Majuli on Saturday. Reports said nine houses and a school building at Misamora village have been eroded by the swelling Brahmaputra on Saturday morning. An SDRF team has reached the erosion-hit areas to carry out rescue operations.
 
 Roads, bridges and flood-protection embankments were severely damaged, disrupting connectivity in many parts of the flood-affected districts. 
 
 A landslide in Dima Hasao district has blocked movement of vehicles at Jatinga under the Haflong revenue circle. A primarily school and houses belonging to nine families were washed away by the Brahmaputra in Majuli district on Saturday.
 
 Many flood-affected people have been complaining of not receiving enough relief material, including food items.
 
 ASDMA officials, however, ruled out any shortage of relief materials distributed among the flood-hit population. According to the ASDMA, 1,039.3 quintal rice, 200.3 quintal pulse and 45.77 quintal salts were distributed besides other food items.
 
 On Friday, revenue minister Pallab Lochan Das had said that district administrations have been provided with sufficient funds to tide over relief and rescue operations. 
 
 
