Ambika* has had a failed marriage with Suresh* and her plans to start afresh are held up. After an inordinate delay over a reunion petition, she filed for a divorce by mutual consent. But her case documents went missing and since she did not get her divorce decree on time, Ambika had to call off her marriage.

 “While she was all set to get married, staff crunch in the court was such that the case bundle got lost amid the pile of docu ments. After tracing the bundle, the staff said the relevant documents had gone missing,“ said senior advocate V Kannadasan, joint counsel for the couple.
 
 Ambika is not the only one.The cumbersome course to justice finds no better manifestation than in the city's subordinate courts which grapple with judicial and staff vacancies. “Because of staff crunch, there is delay in proceedings and delivery of justice. Even high court orders like transfer of papers from one court to another are not followed,“ said Kannadasan.
 
 There are vacancies for judges and staff in the court of small causes, sessions court (both civil and criminal) and metropolitan magistrate and other courts. According to advocate V S  , in the small causes court, there are three courts without judges.While two have acting judges, the other has a judge who has gone on medical leave. There is a severe crunch at the level of other court staff like typist, photocopier, bench, clerks, bailiffs, aminas and assistant bench clerk.
 
 Underscoring the procedural delay in appointing judges, advocate   said vacancies did not come like flash floods.“Retirement dates of sitting judges are a matter of public record. Plans can be made ahead so that vacancies are filled on time. There is no dearth of talent.The pause in handing over the baton of justice is avoidable and must be obviated to tackle the docket explosion and backlog.“
 
 While there are rules to appoint judges, the process of recruiting court staff needs to be streamlined, say jurists. Justice (retired) K Chandru said after the Madras high court barred   from conducting the recruitment process of court staff, the induction process was stalled. “It's a simple recruitment process in the face of ever expanding courts. Why is there no continuous recruitment process?“ he said.
 
 Justice Chandru said when there was a vacant judge's position, another judge was forced to assume additional responsibility for the headless court resulting in delays. Highlighting the scarcity of “qualified court staff “ typists and stenographers, he said there were systemic flaws like the existing funnel structure for court staff (like one superintendent heading two assistant superintendents, who in turn head more junior superintendents). This had to be replaced with a system where there were more middle-level staff, he said.
 
 (*Names changed)
 
