MUMBAI:   will soon launch a revenue-generating job   engine for its students and alumni. While students will be able to look up for jobs,   can post job advertisements and reach out to students. The database of seven lakh students will be available online in the first year. Employers can also make use data of alumni, who have their profiles on LinkedIn – a professional social networking portal – for hiring.

 Neeraj Hatekar, director, Department of Economics, who is spearheading the project, said a prototype of the portal is ready and a dry run will start soon. “While employers can access students’ data on the portal, they will have to approach the university’s placement officers to get in touch with them. Similar job search engines work on the commission of 8% for such services. We are also looking at a similar revenue-generating model. The revenue will be shared between the university and the college. Affiliated colleges will get incentives to offer job-oriented courses,” said Hatekar.
 
 The portal will have information on the candidates’ academic records, their aptitude and other information that they share with the university during enrolment. Students will be able to look up for job opportunities and updates from time-to-time. “Students, especially in rural areas, will be able to reach out to employers. Employers, who usually do not visit smaller colleges for placements, can pick up talented candidates from remote places too,” said Hatekar. Alumni profiles on LinkedIn, with the keyword ‘Mumbai University’ will also be available and can be used by prospective employers, increasing the database of potential employees. 
 
 Among other advantages, the portal will help alumni look up for batch mates, organize meets and other events. Each student will be charged Rs100 as a one-time fee. A professional developer is helping the university set up the site, which will go live before the next academic year. A principal said though it was a great idea, they will have to wait and see if it yields desired results. “Handling such a huge database through a university placement service could be quite challenging,” said the principal.
 
 
