HYDERABAD: Two migrant workers from Bihar died after a retaining wall of an under-construction building of T-Hub Phase II collapsed on them at Gachibowli late on Monday night.

 The victims - Ziyaul Ansari alias Sonu, 22, and Dilip Kumar Yadav, 40, - used to reside at a temporary shelter at the construction site. Ansari was a native of Baina village, while Dilip was from Garara village, both from Katihar district in Bihar.
 
 “The incident occurred when the labourers were working at the   construction site,“ Raidurgam sub-inspector (SI) A Muralidhar said. During preliminary probe, police found that at 7.30 pm, the retaining wall constructed around the cellar had collapsed on the two victims. Police said there were about 10 workers at the spot when the mishap occurred, but debris fell on the duo.
 
 Fellow workers rushed the duo to a nearby private hospital, where Ansari was declared brought dead and Dilip succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment at 2 am on Tuesday. Eyewitnesses told police that the mishap occurred after the rear wheel of an earthmover rammed the retaining wall.
 
 Based on a complaint lodged by fellow worker Manoj Yadav, police have registered a case against KPC Project Ltd officials as well as the earth mover operator under section 304-A of IPC.
 
 The bodies were shifted for post-mortem and the family members of the victims were informed about the incident.
 
 Though officials are yet to ascertain the cause of the mishap, this is not the first such incident occurred in the area due to deep excavation. In December, an under-construction multistoried building collapsed in  .
 
 Experts from the   said constructions in rocky terrain must be taken up with utmost caution.“Since it is a rocky terrain, the builder assumes the foundation is on firm ground. Only after they begin excavating soil for cellars or pillars, the loose soil collapses,“ Institute of Town Planners India regional head V Sathyanarayana told TOI.
 
 However,   (IALA), Nanakramguda, zonal manager C Vinod Kumar, in whose jurisdiction the building falls, claimed the workers died after steel rods fell on them.
 
