PATNA: A day after chief minister   scrapped the   (BSSC)’s four-phase examinations for filling up 13,000-odd clerical vacancies, police on Thursday arrested six more people, taking the number of arrests in connection with a question leak scam to 16. BSSC secretary   and computer operator Avinash Kumar were arrested on Wednesday.
 
  The job scam is being probed by the Patna police’s   (special investigation team), which was formed at Nitish’s behest. Those arrested by the SIT on Thursday included AVN School director Ramashish Singh, manager Ramsumer Singh, Random Classes coaching institute’s proprietor Rameshwar Kumar and Verma ITI coaching institute head Nitin Kumar besides Alok Ranjan and Kaushal Kumar.
  
  Kaushal, a student, and Alok, a loco pilot of railways, worked as middlemen who would lure job aspirants, police said and added they were looking for one Atul Rai, a government school teacher in Aurangabad, who was absconding.
  
  Patna SSP   said it was at the BSSC’s AVN school examination centre that the question paper was leaked an hour before the examinations on January 29. The accused have confessed to also having access to the questions that were asked in the February 5 examination and were to be asked in the February 12 and 19 examinations.
  
  “The AVN director and manager allowed Atul to click a photo of the question paper after unsealing it. Our probe suggests the AVN director had links with BSSC secretary Ram,” Maharaaj said, adding the middlemen would finalise the deal with job aspirants for Rs 6 lakh each.
  
  The amount was to be paid in instalments till the final selection was done. “The middlemen would keep the aspirant’s original certificates as security,” the SSP told newsmen.
  
  According to police, Rameshwar taught physics to Class IX and X students at Random, but had himself flunked matric examination. AVN director Ramashish is a clerk in the science and technology department, already being probed by the vigilance and CBI for allegedly possessing disproportionate assets.
  
  Sources said the CBSE cancelled AVN’s affiliation two years back. The question that remains unanswered is, why and how did the BSSC made its examination centre at AVN then.
