GURUGRAM: Haryana will get 11,000 more police personnel, of which 1,000, including 67 women sub-inspectors will be deployed in the city, police chief BS Sandhu announced on Tuesday.

 Considering the traffic problem in the city, which has become acute of late with monsoon, and several ongoing construction projects at key intersections of the city, the   said 550 traffic cops will also be infused into the city’s existing strength. The city currently has around 350 traffic cops.
 
 The Haryana Police, according to the data collected by TOI in May 2017, has a total sanctioned strength of 61,000 personnel, of which only 42,300 positions have been filled. In  , there are 4,800 sanctioned posts in the police department, of which only 3,900 posts have been filled, leaving 900 vacancies.
 
 DGP also announced that Gurgaon would soon get its second all-women police station and an anti-drug squad.
 
 He said the second all-women police station will be set up in old Gurgaon to make it convenient for women living in that part of the city to register cases. The city’s first all-women police station was launched in August 2015 in Sector 51 as part of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s plan to open at least one such police station in each district.
 
 “The security of women is a top priority for Haryana Police, and Operation Durga, a campaign to curb sexual harassment of women on the streets, is also a step in this direction,” the DGP said, while addressing a function at the NCR Media Club in Gurgaon.
 
 Police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar told TOI the proposal for the new all-women police station was sent to the state government for its approval around two weeks ago. “Once we get a nod, it could take up to two months to get the police station to work,” he said.
 
 According to Khirwar, the current all-women police station is located in the west district. “But cases of marital discord, rape and sexual harassment continue to be registered in other police stations of the city as well. The setting up of the new police station in old Gurgaon will benefit aggrieved women living in that part of the city,” he said.
 
 The DGP also said a special task force to tackle drug menace and speed up probe will also be set up in the state. “A team will specially be set up for Gurgaon district,” he said. Sources said the team would be led by an IG-rank officer, along with two SPs and two DSPs.
 
 The DGP also said a cyber police station, which has been on the pipeline, will be initiated in the city as soon as possible. Khirwar said the notification of the cyber police station could take up to a month depending on the state government’s decision.
 
 A proposal to make a central control room for the entire state is also on the anvil, which is proposed to be set up in Panchkula. This is supposed to have a common toll-free number, which would redirect complaints to the designated police stations for smoother response to emergency calls.
 
 
