French DJ  's show in Mumbai on Friday night was nixed after the organisers failed to promptly pay the city administration Rs 10 lakh for an earlier event, and couldn't give the police enough time to inspect the venue.

 The cancellation, which came a day after Guetta's concert in Bangalore was called off, disappointed thousands of fans of the Grammy Award-winning artist, many of whom landed in Mumbai specifically for the   event. But unlike before when authorities were accused of unfairly holding back permissions for high-profile entertainment programmes, this time bad planning by the organisers, Percept Live, contributed to the cancellation: they failed to get timely clearances from the  , the MMRDA, the police and the collectorate, city officials told Mirror.
 
  
  
 "They had not paid the BMC Rs 10 lakh for a previous function. When they approached us for organising the concert at the Mahalaxmi Race Course this time, we told them they would have to pay in advance. Now they have cleared the dues," municipal commissioner   told Mirror on Friday.
 
 But the payment came too late.The BMC had already issued a public notice on Thursday asking people not to buy tickets for an 'unauthorised' event. Guetta was initially supposed to perform at the Race Course, but late on Thursday the organisers announced on Facebook that the event had been moved to   in Bandra-Kurla Complex. The sudden change, prompted by the BMC's notice, presented a big headache to the police as they had very little time to conduct mandatory checks at the venue in the wake of heightened security concerns across the city.
 
 "We cannot compromise on the city's security. One cannot come to the Mumbai police four and a half hours before the event. We have to conduct a security audit and an anti-sabotage check. These require time," said  , joint police commissioner (law and order). He added, 'We also refused to grant permission because they did not submit any security plan. There were other mandatory requirements which were not complied with.'
 
 Another senior officer said the organisers didn't even approach the traffic police for a nod, while additional collector Kumar Khaire said the suburban collectorate refused to give its permission because of missing clearances from other authorities. The BKC venue fell under the MMRDA's jurisdiction, but the development authority didn't give an all-clear because of the police's stand. "We would have given them our ground had the organisers obtained requisite permissions," an MMRDA official said.
 
 A senior BMC official said the organisers didn't clear the Rs 10 lakh payment for months despite reminders. "When they applied permission for Friday's concert, we brought the issue to their notice. They then paid the amount and the BMC granted nod on Friday," the official said.
 
 Karan Singh, CEO of Sunburn, said, "Due to unforeseen circumstances, Sunburn Arena with David Guetta in Mumbai has been cancelled for today. Please wait for a few hours for further updates regarding the show." Late on Friday night, Harindra Singh, managing director and chairman of Percept Ltd, said the show had been rescheduled for Sunday at the BKC ground.
 
 By then, many fans had expressed their disappointment. "It would have been the first time my husband and I would have watched Guetta perform live. We went through his entire discography ahead of the show," Byculla resident Khushnaz Turner. NRI Harveen Singh said he came to Mumbai for Guetta's performances. "I was visiting Bangalore when I heard the show there got cancelled.So I thought it would be best to catch Guetta in Mumbai and make a weekend out of it. I spent nearly Rs 25,000 on booking a hotel room for three days in the city and Rs 10,000 for two VIP tickets," Singh said. "Some of my friends from Delhi had also flown down for the show."
 
 Show rescheduled
 
 Percept Limited MD Harindra Singh said: "We have succeeded to reschedule the event for Sunday between 11 am and 4 pm at the same venue, Jio Gardens, BKC. The current tickets will be valid for the rescheduled show on Sunday." Karan Singh, CEO, Sunburn, said, "The David Guetta Sunburn Arena show in New Delhi on the 15th and in Hyderabad on the 14th will take place as originally planned, at   Stadium and  , respectively."
 
 The official Twitter handle of Hyderabad police posted, "Welcome to Hyderabad David Guetta. Look forward to hosting you tomorrow. @ cyberabadpolice committed to ensure a glitch free event as always."
 
 
  
  
