Chennai: The beleaguered General Motors India may stop domestic sales from next month and may run the plant only to cater to export markets. 

 According to sources , GM India may make a formal announcement of cessation of domestic in May. 
 
 The decision could be the first signs that GM may be thinking of winding up its India operation.
 
 By end April all production at GM India’s Halol plant will come to a halt. Halol stopped Cruze, (a sedan) production last week and Tavera (utility vehicle) will stop by April 28, 2017. 
 
 As for GM India’s other plant in Talegaon, sources say production of right hand drive vehicles — suitable for sale in India — has stopped and the only product currently being made there is the left hand drive Beat (hatchback), meant for export to Mexico. 
 
 A GM India spokesperson said in an emailed response : “Few weeks back, we advised our employees, stakeholders and media that General Motors will cease production of all vehicles at the Halol plant on April 28. This includes the Tavera and Cruze. Our launches for 2017 are progressing to plan. These commenced with the production of the Chevrolet Beat for the Mexico market in March. (As for ceasing domestic sales from May) we do not respond to speculation. We are currently evaluating our future product portfolio. Our product launches are progressing to plan and we continue to implement our consolidation of manufacturing at our Talegaon plant.”
 
 GM’s Chinese partner SAIC is learnt to be in negotiations for the Halol plant — which it wants without any encumbrances.
 
 Sources say General Motors India is likely to take a soft approach to winding up operations in India given the interests of its dealers and its current consumer base in India. 
 
 The company, officially maintains that it is reviewing its India plans even though global investments have been frozen and production of most models have stopped.
 
 “General Motors India continues to focus on consolidating our manufacturing at our Talegaon plant,” said the spokesperson.
 
 “General Motors continues to believe in the growth potential of the Indian market and we will continue to closely monitor the market and evolve our product strategy accordingly. We announced that global investments in India product programs are on hold as we conduct complete review of our portfolio. It continues to remain on hold,” she added.
 
 
