New Delhi: In the wake of the arrest of Sunil Rastogi, who had allegedly sexually abused hundreds of children over a period of 12 years, legal   have stressed the need for a sex offenders’ registry. The matter was discussed even in Parliament almost a year ago, but its implementation has hit roadblocks due to differences among various agencies.

 Lawyers claim that unlike countries such as the US, India lacks a database of   besides a mechanism to reform such criminals. Gender rights lawyer Flavia Agnes said that the registry would be useful for the police to track sexual offenders. “The government has been discussing the matter for a long a time, but has not implemented it. Cases of child sexual abuse are on the rise. There could be a paedophile within a family or in child shelter homes. We do not realise that such offenders need psychiatric help. There is a need to recognise this fact,” she said.
 
 Minister of state (home) Haribhai Parathibhai Chaudhary had on May 10 last year informed the Lok Sabha that the registry was being prepared in consultation with relevant ministries, after which it could be discussed with the state governments.
 
 Agnes, who has worked extensively in this field, said that in India, a provision of rehabilitating or treating such criminals was absent. “In the US, there is a such a provision in the law,” she added.
 
 Senior human rights lawyer Colin Gonsalves saw no reason why the registry could not be set up. “India is a country where sexual offences are on the rise.   did a study and found out that children were being abused by family members. The government has categorically said it in the Lok Sabha that there would be a list of such offenders.” He said the registry would “very important” for the police in keeping an eye on sexual offenders.
 
 The proposed draft guidelines discussed by the minister will have detailed information of the offender—primary or given name, nicknames, pseudonyms, addresses, telephone numbers, employment information, professional licences, school/college/institute information, date of birth, criminal history, current photograph, fingerprints and palm prints, DNA sample, PAN card number, among others.
 
 Even a senior public prosecutor who has handled several rape cases in Delhi said that it was an irony that not everything in the current era was computerised. “We have records but not in the digital form. It was not taken seriously earlier. If the investigating officer is vigilant, then several offenders can land behind bars. If the investigating agency wants, it can get the background information of the offender, but they are not doing it in 90% of the cases,” said the prosecutor on condition of anonymity.
 
 On court’s order, lawyer and child rights activist Anant Kumar Ashthana’s PIL had resulted in getting the preventive guidelines for children sexual abuse notified by the then lieutenant governor in 2013. But sadly, there is “zero” implementation, he regretted.
 
