Bengaluru: The sudden decision to scrap the controversial Rs 2,100-crore steel flyover project by chief minister Siddaramaiah on Thursday took many unawares. But Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Chandrashekhar has, in an open letter to the CM, said the move raised many unanswered questions, including the reason why the project was taken up in the first place and “reinforced the widely held perception that the reason for this project was not to solve the city’s traffic jams but other reasons”. “I thank CM Siddaramaiah for his belated decision to cancel the steel flyover -- even if it took several citizen protests, months and cases filed in NGT and the high court -- for him to realize that people really didn’t like this strange idea of his government to solve the city’s pressing traffic problems with one steel flyover. But important questions remain about why this project was attempted to be pushed through in a hurry without true public consultation with citizens and a true environment impact assessment study for the impact of the felling of hundreds of trees. The allegations of corruption and a Congress MLC’s diary entries still remain unaddressed – further reinforcing the widely held perception that the reason for this project was not to solve the city’s traffic jams, but other reasons,” he said in the letter, a copy of which is available with TOI. “If this decision of CM was to put these kind of questionable decisions behind and to start afresh and be responsive to what citizens want and do so without allegations of impropriety and corruption, the CM should immediately start the process of creating a multi-year plan for our Bengaluru – that creates citywide solutions for traffic, water, garbage, public health, child and women safety, environment and lakes, heritage, etc. This plan should be developed by real experts and then discussed openly and transparently with citizens of the city. I urge him to act on this now,” he also wrote. “BDA’s efforts on Revised Master Plan 2031 must not be a way to give additional FSI to certain builders and real estate companies. The RMP must go through the mandatory public consultation as per the clearly laid out guidelines of the Supreme Court. Citizens must be given an opportunity to comment. All citizens’ comments should be documented in the public domain with a reason for accepting or rejecting them,” he added. Chandrashekhar also criticized Bengaluru development minister (K J George) who he says is incapable of solving the many problems of Bengaluru, and seems to be extraordinarily obsessed with big, expensive projects like the flyovers, for reasons best known to him and the CM. “In a press briefing recently, he seems to have suggested that I be given the job of looking at Bengaluru’s traffic problems. This admission that we have a minister incapable of doing his job means that as CM you put a more capable minister who can address the problems of our city and its people,” he wrote.