“Age is just a number” was among the few placards displayed by spectators at the recently-concluded 75th edition of the ARAE-FEARA Regatta held at the Madras Boat Club (MBC). The message couldn’t have been more apt considering the loud cheer and backing that rowers in the Masters and Super Masters category of the regatta received as they made their way past finish line. The grit and courage showcased by these rowers could serve as an encouragement for the younger lot.

 Unlike most disciplines where your best phase arrives in your 20 or 30s,   is a sport where one tends to get better with age.  , who bagged top honours at the Masters Women double sculls teaming up with   and came second in the Super Masters event along with  , took to rowing only at the age of 40. “Seeing my daughter row, I took up this sport and haven’t stopped since. It is a sport that is extremely liberating and is quite addictive. It’s a sport you can pursue till you die,” says the 45-year-old, who works as an adviser at the United States-India Education Foundation. For the uninitiated, the Masters category requires the average age of the boat (combined age of the rowers), especially in Double Sculls and Fours event to be 40 with the minimum rower age being 37. However, in the Super Masters category, the minimum age is 50 and the average age on the boat must be 54.
 
 While Aparna may have embraced rowing recently, Arun Krishnan — India’s oldest Iron Man — got introduced to it early in life. “My first rowing experience was back in 1969 when I was in college. When I became a member of MBC in 1973, I took it up seriously,” said the 67-year-old. Arun had a good outing at the Regatta, finishing third in two events — Super Masters Fours and at the double sculls. Interestingly, Arun revealed how rowing came to his rescue each time he was injured. “It strengthens each member of the body, be it the hands, knees, back and core muscles. Rowing is an all-encompassing passion for me,” he pointed out.
 
 Over the years, there have been numerous moments at the MBC that are etched in Arun’s memory. “When we began rowing, fishes on the Adyar River would jump into the boat. If you leave the blades, there was a chance of your boat capsizing. There is also a tradition at the MBC wherein if your boat capsizes, you have to order a plate of finger-chips for your mates at the club,” he said.
 
 Despite their pressing schedules, rowers in the Masters and Super Masters category ensure they have adequate practice before any event. “I wake up by 4, take care of my dogs, make breakfast for my husband, come here (at MBC) and row. Even in the evenings after office, I end up rowing. It is highly addictive and if you love it, you would do it,” she said.
 
 Their age notwithstanding, the sport has kept rowers in peak physical shape and in good spirits. It was no surprise when 79-year-old Dr Sridhar Acharya — the senior-most in the competition — took to the waters and the audience was treated to some splendid rowing. “A few in Master categories may have retired, but they definitely aren’t tired yet,” said one of the onlookers. 
 
