LUCKNOW:
  Reversing the verdict of special CBI court, the Lucknow bench of the   on Wednesday acquitted six policemen who were convicted in an  , in which deputy superintendent of police   was also killed. The incident took place in   on March 13, 1982.

 Of the six acquitted, three had been awarded life imprisonment by a special CBI court. 
 
 KP Singh was the father of UP cadre IAS officer Kinjal Singh.
 
 Passing the order, a bench of Justice Prashant Kumar and Justice Mahendra Dayal observed that the trial court wrongly concluded that the encounter was fake. “From the materials available on record, we find that the encounter was  ,” the court said.
 
 Those acquitted were RB Saroj, Ram Naik Pandey, Ram Karan Singh, Naseem Ahmad, Rajendra Prasad Singh and Pervez Hussain. 
 
 The incident took place on March 13, 1982 in Katra Bazar police circle of village Madnapur in Gonda. The police were tipped-off that some dacoits would come to attend the last rites of one Mata Prasad. A police party, led by KP Singh, raided Prasad’s house and in the ensuing firing 12 alleged dacoits and DySP KP Singh, were killed. 
 
 But KP Singh’s wife Vibha alleged that then Gonda SP got her husband eliminated because the SP suspected that KP Singh was having affair with his wife. 
 
 On Vibha’s plea, the Supreme Court in June 1984 directed the CBI to probe the case. 
 
 CBI concluded it was a fake encounter. It found that KP Singh had made adverse entries against two cops -- RB Saroj and TR Pal in the case diaries and hence they had conspired to kill him with the help of a villag pradhan Nankau. Nankau was at loggerheads with the family of Mata Prasad. CBI added that false information was given to then SP Gonda that a gang of dacoits would attend the cremation of Mata Prasad. On SP’s directive, KP Singh had raided the village with police party but he was killed along with 12 innocent villagers in the police firing. The CBI filed a chargesheet against 19 cops, nine of whom died during trial.
 
 The special CBI court on March 29, 2013, awarded death penalty to RB Saroj, Ram Naik Pandey and Ram Karan Singh besides punishing six others with life imprisonment. The court acquitted one cop, Prem Singh.
 
 Six convicts challenged the verdict in the high court and were acquitted on Wednesday. 
 
