PATNA: Students of   paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversaries on Monday. Students and staff of the school also took a pledge to end two social evils – child marriage and dowry. Principal Meenakshi Jha said the foundation of the school was laid by social activist late  , sister of Lal Bahadur Shastri, in 1963. She also urged the students to follow in the footsteps of great leaders and learn from their teachings.

 Students performed on bhajans like ‘Vaishnava jan’ and ‘Raghupati Raghav’. The programme was conducted by Karuna Singh. Other teachers who attended the programme included Sobha Kumari Upadhyay, Shakuntala Kumari, Chitra Prasad, Dr Kavita Sinha, Mridula Saran, Urmila Kumari, Arjun Prasad, Abhishek Kumar, Gautam Kumar and Arvind Kumar.
 
 Special assembly: A special assembly was organized at D A V Public School BSEB on Monday to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The assembly was followed by a prayer session in which students and school staff participated. Children were told how Gandhi led the nation in freedom struggle and sacrificed his life for social equality. School principal Ojha suggested the students to lead a simple and noble life. The students also pledged to keep their surroundings clean and fight against the twin menace of child marriage and dowry.
 
 Dr D Y Patil Pushpalata Patil Int’l School: Teachers and staff of Dr D Y Patil Pushpalata Patil International School took a pledge to spread the message of cleanliness and sanitation at a function organised to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on the school campus on Monday. School director Dr C B Singh asked teachers, staff and students not to attend child marriage functions and boycott the marriage of dowry takers to give a strong message in the society.
 
 Dr G L Dutta D A V Public School: Dr G L Dutta D A V Public School organised a function to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on Monday. Students and teachers of the school also participated in a cleanliness drive under the guidance of principal H K Singh.
 
 
