Ludhiana: The fifth MC house ended on Wednesday where the outgoing mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria inaugurated the construction of a road in his ward number 70. The outgoing councillors have also started gearing up for the next elections. Most of the outgoing councillors claimed that they will continue interacting with the public.

 Gohalwaria said that he tried to perform his best. He revealed that he inaugurated the road work in his ward on the last day and will continue working for ther people even not being the mayor. He said that he has already started preparation for the next MC elections. 
 
 Meanwhile outgoing BJP councillor from ward number 18 Inder Aggarwal said that would keep a watch on his ward, because many leaders have their eyes set on this ward. On the future, he said that he will check the status of ward delimitation and in case his ward comes under the reserved category, he will try from adjoining wards. 
 
 An outgoing SAD councillor Tanvir Dhaliwal however said that he has already started preparations for the elections with a paint in his office from where he will start public meetings. He said that he is also going to organise the camps in the ward for works related to Aadhar cards, voter cards and PAN cards for public convenience. 
 
 Outgoing Congress councillor Balkar Singh said that he will continue working for the public though he will not be able to use the powers of a councillor but he can take support from Congress MP and MLAs for the development of his ward. He said he would now focus on the development of the areas in his wards because in the past five years, wards of Congress councillors remained neglected. 
 
 However another outgoing Congress councillor Rakesh Prashar said that he had got a visa for Canada and is not sure about the dates of MC elections. So, he is waiting for the formal announcement after which he will move to Canada for a vacation. 
 
 Sources revealed that outgoing SAD BJP councillors are worried about the effect of ward delimitation on their respective wards and are preparing even their wives/mothers for polls in case their wards are declared reserved for female candidates. They are seeking support from Congress MLAs so that their wards are not declared reserved. In case it happens then they should get chance from some other ward. 
 
 Moreover the former Congress councillors and aspirants are now pushing the Congress MLAs for various developmental works in their respective wards because when the MC Commissioner is the administrator, then ruling MLAs will have the authority to get any work done. 
 
 
