COIMBATORE: If you find a garbage bin in front of a  , be ensured that it has defaulted on   for years together. And it’s the way the civic body punishes the defaulters.

 The civic body has so far placed   at the gates of nearly 10 commercial establishments, which had reportedly defaulted on property tax for several years. On Thursday, a bin was placed in front of an apartment at Nava India near Avinashi Road. 
 
 The civic body has set a target of Rs 139 crore in property taxes and it has so far collected 85℅ of it. 
 
 When it comes to  , the civic body mostly disconnect water  . So far, it has disconnected water connections of nearly 100 residences. 
 
 “We disconnect at least 20-30 water connections daily. Most times, when our plumbers reach the spot the defaulters promise to pay the tax. A few connections were disconnected as the residents didn’t take any initiative to settle their arrears,” said Ravikumar, assistant commissioner of revenue department.
 
 “On Thursday, we disconnected six water connections for non-payment of taxes,” said another official and added that some shopping malls and hotels were also on the list. “They have promised to pay soon. But if they fail to do so, we will place garbage bins in front of their gates,” Ravikumar said. 
 
 As per the available data, the civic body has to collect another Rs 5crore from the central zone alone in property taxes. Pointing out that the maximum number of shops were located in the central zone, corporation officials said, “As such, the amount due in taxes is huge as there are several defaulters.”
 
 Central zone assistant revenue officer Mahesh said most of the major defaulters, including five-star hotels, have paid their taxes. “A few other commercial establishments, such as shopping complexes and shops in the older part of the city, including Oppanakara Street, Raja Street, Race Course and Sukarwarpet, are yet to pay the taxes. On Wednesday, we had placed garbage bins in front of two shops. We are hopeful of collecting more than 90% of property tax by March-end,” Mahesh said.
 
 The civic body has to now collect nearly Rs 22 crore, excluding arrears which would come around Rs 40 crore, in property taxes for this financial year. 
 
 Revenus officers said they had been doing their bit to force the defaulters to clear their arrears by way of public announcement system. “Many usually wait till March last week to pay the taxes. We are hopeful that collection will improve. As of now, we collect nearly Rs 40 lakh a day,” said one of the officers. He said now the focus was on small shops and residences, as major establishments come forward to clear the taxes. 
 
