BENGALURU/BELAGAVI: The political feud between the influential sugar barons of Belagavi district, the Jarkiholi brothers, has reached the Congress high command, with former minister   L Jarkiholi meeting party vice-president   in New Delhi on Tuesday. 

 The meeting comes a day after Satish and his minister-brother  , along with other district party functionaries, met   and Karnataka in-charge   in Bengaluru on Monday. During the meeting, Venugopal is reported to have told the brothers to sort out their political differences.
 
  Satish, a one-time confidant of chief minister Siddaramaiah, was dropped from the cabinet in June 2016. He was replaced by brother Ramesh, who is now minister for small-scale industries and also in charge of Belagavi district. 
 
  Miffed by this, Satish is reportedly exploring the possibilities of quitting Congress. As minister for excise, he had once resigned in 2015, reportedly upset with the CM for not recognizing his work for the Valmiki (ST) community and uniting the SCs and STs in the state, a vote bloc that has moved away from the Congress. 
 
 Party sources told TOI that the Congress does not want to lose Satish, considering the BJP has its party MP B Sriramulu, who also hails from the Valmiki community, and is building a base. 
 
 It's learnt that Venugopal suggested that Satish meet Rahul and apprise him of the entire issue before taking a call on quitting the party. "If the message from the high command is not to let Satish go, the CM will do something about it," the sources added.
 
 Satish and Ramesh's youngest brother Lakhan is said to be keen on contesting the 2018 polls from Yamakanamaradi in Belagavi district, now represented by Satish. Lakhan's ambitions are being supported by Ramesh and KPCC women's wing president Laxmi Hebbalkar. 
 
 The family's infighting has come out in public with Satish charging his brothers and Hebbalkar with ganging up against him. Satish offered to support Lakhan, if he was interested in contesting from Belagavi (rural) which Hebbalkar is eyeing. She lost from this constituency by a small margin in 2013.
 
