NOIDA:   (DCM) Noida conducted a safety/evacuation drill at  , sector 91, on Monday from 9:00 am onwards where more than 400 students and 25 faculty members participated in the drill. This was the 10th school evacuation drill carried out by   in the Gautam Budh Nagar district in association with Shuttl. A similar drill in 101 schools across the district will be held from third and fourth week of April.

 According Dr Kumar Raka, planning specialist and head of department, DCM Noida, the seismic hazard map of Gautam Budh Nagar district - Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway (NGY) areas - have been identified in seismic zone IV. "This means that the area falls under 'high damage risk zone' where earthquake of intensity VIII (eight) on the Richter scale may occur," said Dr Raka.
 
 Further, given the speed at which Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway (NGY) are developing, what with plethora of multi-storey buildings and also highly populated urban villages, it makes the area very vulnerable and prone to earthquake and fire disasters said Dr Raka.
 
 Hence, with the inherent risk factor, DCM Noida had earlier, (last year) carried out sustained evacuation drills and trained about 8000 students and 125 faculty in the district because it was felt that school is a place where hundreds/ thousands of children of all age groups come for education on a daily basis and stay there for 6-8 hours.
 
 As a result, the need for all schools to have a sound Emergency Response Mechanism (ERM) in order to deal effectively with the natural and human induced disasters such as earthquake, fire, stampedes, terror attacks and gas leaks etc.
 
 Encouraged with the response and success of previous school safety programmes/drills, DCM Noida is now planning a mega evacuation drill across 101 schools on same day/date and same time in the district in the third and fourth week of April whereby a training programme will entail simulating an earthquake of Richter 6.5 scale or above, and how to safely evacuate the classrooms. "This would be unique, first of its kind School Evacuation Drill (SED) to be conducted in the country and on such a large scale," said Dr Raka who added that Monday's programme at Panchsheel Balak Inter College, sector 91, was a replica of the planned mega SED that is to be conducted in April.
 
 The programme which was presided by N P Singh district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, also included other officials such as Saumya Srivastava DCEO, Noida Authority, Keshav Kumar ADM (F/R), Rajesh Kumar SDM (Sadar), Anurag Bhargav chief medical officer (CMO), Deepak Kapoor president CREDAI, Asha Prabhakar president district association of CBSE schools, Rajesh Kumar RTO G B Nagar, Dr Meena Singh education officer Noida and Greater Noida, Veer Singh, vice-president Shuttl and more.
 
