NAGPUR : Noted builder-cum-film distributor Appu Wadhwani, so-called   and some others have been booked for cheating and forgery at   on Thursday. Wadhwani, whose office at Sadar was searched, was questioned for seven hours by the   (SIT) formed to probe 15 land grabbing and other charges related to Gwalbanshi under property cell of crime branch.

 The case was registered on a   regarding a fake sale deed of a 14-acre plot at Yerla in Nagpur district. The transaction was shown to have taken place in 1993. Mishra claimed Wadhwani, Gwalbanshi and others submitted fake documents at the sub-registrar office to transfer his plot.
 
 Intriguingly, this case had not been revealed to the media by the cops, unlike other offences against Gwalbanshi. However, Senior PI Vazeer Shaikh of property cell, who is also SIT member, and Sadar police station in-charge Manoj Sidam confirmed to TOI that an offence was registered against Wadhwani, Gwalbanshi and others. Shaikh also confirmed having questioned Wadhwani at length pertaining to the offence and scrutinized his documents.
 
 PI Shaikh expressed reluctance to speak on the issue, but tried to give Wadhwani a clean chit in the matter. “Wadhwani’s documents were checked by us but there were no discrepancies. It seemed the complainant had made misleading claims,” he said. Shaikh, however, refused to state whether a closure report would be sent to the court instead of charge sheet, just saying that this would be decided after investigations.
 
 Wadhwani too said the police department has properly checked all the documents related to the case and realized that there was no lacuna in them. “The complainant did not provide all the relevant information,” he said.
 
 This is the second time Wadhwani’s name has been dragged into the land grabbing matters of Gwalbanshi. His name was also mentioned in an FIR over extortion, threatening and other charges against Gwalbanshi and his accomplices registered at Gittikhadan police station on May 6 by Charandas Jaiswal. The complainant had claimed Gwalbanshi threatened him to give up claim on his plot at Khwaja Garib Nawaz Nagar Society since it had to be transferred to his ‘elder brother’ Wadhwani.
 
 Talking to TOI, Jaiswal claimed he used to often hear the surname ‘Wadhwani’ from the Gwalbanshi gang whenever he tried to regain possession of his land.
 
 Last year, Wadhwani was also quizzed by the crime branch during the investigation of undetected murder of 71-year-old Eknath Nimgade. The case is now being probed by the CBI on high court orders. Wadhwani’s name had come to fore after prime suspect Maqsood Ali Siddiqui named him as one of the builders he had approached to sell the disputed property that is said to have led to the senior citizen’s murder in September last year.
 
