HYDERABAD: Justice A Ramalingeswara Rao of the   has ordered demolition of five unauthorised floors in two buildings located in a housing board colony at  . The judge passed the order after hearing a contempt plea filed by   and others, residents of the colony . They contended they were adversely affected by illegal structures. The two buil dings have ground plus six floors though owners obtained permission for ground plus first floors.. The judge unearthed curious facts. The guilty in the case included not only owners of buildings, but officials of city planning wing of the GHMC.The judge recorded whole sequence of events in judgement.The representations given to the   officials by the neighbours about illegal structures in April, May and June 2016 did not evoke any response. The aggrieved parties even enclosed photos of the unauthorised floors to drive their point home. But to no avail. Then they uploaded the same on the GHMC website. When even legal notices issued to the GHMC officials drew a blank, the neighbours knocked court doors.

 Though an order was passed by the HC on 22 December, 2016, asking the GHMC officials to see that no further floors were raised, the building owners ignored this. When a contempt case was filed against officials, an assistant city planner then filed a counter affidavit stating that their inspections revealed that no further constructions took place. After noticing that the court was delving into the details, he filed a second affidavit in which he said that the owners commenced construction without notifying them. He also said that they issued showcause notices to the errant owners. “By the time we wanted to take further action, the owners approached the city civil court and obtained a status quo or der,“ the official said. What he failed to explain was that the owners raised more floors after the status quo order also.
 
 The assistant city planner said they roped in the police too because the owners were raising structures during night time. But the police said they would interfere in a civil dispute only when there is a specific direction from the court.
 
 Describing these efforts as evasive, judge asked GHMC officials to demolish unauthorised floors within three months.
 
