SECUNDERABAD: Defence authorities have set their eyes on a 1,000-acre state government land in  , around 70 km away from the city, in lieu of nearly 100 acre parcel of land they may have to give up for construction of two skyways and new alternate roads near   in Secunderabad.

 Apart from Vikarabad, the state government has identified land parcels in other districts, including Nizamabad, Nalgonda, Miryalaguda and  , to show the defence authorities. Based on a letter received from the Telangana government on land identified in a few districts, a team from the ministry of defence (MoD) Delhi, Defence Estate Office (DEO), Telangana, Southern Command, Pune, and the state revenue department visited Vikarabad recently.
 
 The visit became significant after the state government speeded up efforts to acquire nearly 100-acre defence land to construct two skyways and lay alternate roads once certain stretches around AOC Centre might be closed for civilian traffic. 
 
 The local civic body (Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation) is busy preparing a detailed project report (DPR) to acquire defence land to lay alternate roads due to closure of the roads. The   has extended the move to close Gough Road till May 30. 
 
 “We inspected the government land at Vikarabad and collected details on the nature of land. Of the 1,000-acre land, nearly 300-acre land is patta land. Though inspection is over, a decision on using the land either for a firing range or construction of defence/army institutions has not yet been decided. However, a report the land with map and images has been sent to the MoD a couple of days ago” defence sources told TOI.
 
 Once we get to know the MoD decision, then the land acquisition wing would deal with land compensation and environmental clearance. The land compensation has to be cleared by the MoD, based on government mentioned land rates as per market value. In case, the MoD decides to set up a firing range there, then major issues like identifying habitations abutting the parcel of land and shift people. “We may get clarity only after a month or two,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the state government has again started making efforts to seek Parade Ground, Secunderabad for construction of a new secretariat. “However, we have not received any letter either from the state government or MoD seeking report on Parade Ground. The Parade Ground is under the management of local army and DEO is maintaining it,” the sources said.
 
