NAGPUR: Twenty-four hours after a massive fire broke at the city’s dumping yard in Bhandewadi on Monday, Nagpur   ( ) officials claimed that 50% of the major fire was doused. 

 However, a TOI photographer who visited the spot, felt that the fire was still raging and had even spread to other parts of the area where garbage is illegally piling up. Even on the second day, a thick layer of the smoke could be seen 2-3 kms from the area.
 
 NMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI that it was difficult to ascertain if the fire was “natural or man-made”.
 
 The civic chief said that the workers at the site are trying to contain the fire by making barriers between the windrows (garbage piled up in different heaps). “We are turning the waste upside down using JCBs to minimize the air contact. As the waste is completely dry, we are also dumping wet soil on it to stop the fire from spreading,” said Hardikar.
 
 This is the second time that the dumping ground is in flames in less than 25 days. Fearing more fire outbreaks, the NMC is now trying to speed up the tendering process for bio-mining. As reported by TOI earlier, the civic body plans to clear around 6-7 acres of land currently over-flowing with illegally dumped municipal solid waste.
 
 Following TOI’s report on Tuesday on the large-scale emission of toxic gases from the site, city activist Ankita Shah has filed a complaint with state chief minister  , Maharashtra Pollution Control Board’s member secretary P Anbalagan, Ministry of Environment and Forests and other concerned authorities. Another complaint has been filed with the  .
 
 In her complaint, Shah has also mentioned about the fire on March 21 which saw around 30 windrows affected. A sizeable part of the 12,000 MT waste got burnt. The fire over the last two days is likely to have affected around 200 windrows, burning a sizeable part of 80,000 MT waste, informed NMC sources.
 
 Shah wrote that as per rule no. 16 of the   Rules, 2016, “it is MPCB’s duty to enforce these rules in the state through local bodies and review their implementation at least twice a year”.
 
 The frequent fires are not only spiking air pollution but releasing toxic substances like dioxins and furans, which according to experts can cause cancer, impotence, asthma, growth defects and other serious health ailments.
 
 Stating that public life is in danger, Shah demanded stringent action in the case. “The fire incidents have not claimed any lives till now. But due to the negligent attitude of civic authorities, a serious mishap can take place,” she said, adding that an FIR should be registered after proper investigation.
 
 
