Wild animals have taken over  , but instead of panicking, the passengers are actually quite pleased. Animals, in the form of jazzy art installations, adorn the walls of the station – both inside and outside – as part of an art project called Celebration Of Nature. The project is an undertaking of Delhi-based NGO St+art   as a part of their Art Stations project. It is being supported by the   Rail Corporation, the Singapore High Commission in India, and the Singapore Tourism Board.

  
  PEEK-A-BOO: Artists paint inside the metro station
 
 
  Arjan Garh is a station on the yellow line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) of the Delhi Metro, situated close to the Delhi-Gurgaon border. Before urbanization hit the place, the area used to be home to many birds and animals. The project kicked off about two weeks ago with artists from Mexico and Singapore taking charge of the walls, painting around the theme of birds. Mexican artist Senoke, who also worked on the outer walls, says,"Our effort was to mix urban elements and the birds with the artwork, so that it feels natural."
 
  
  DID YOU MISS ME: A painting of a sparrow rests on the wall of the Metro station
 
 
  While birds chirp on the outer walls of the station, the interiors are being taken over by other animals. The walls adjacent to each of the four staircases leading to the platforms are being painted with murals of four commonly found animals – monkey, peacock, nilgai, and deer. Nilesh Kharade, the artist who is painting the interiors of the station, says, "Before the Metro station had been built in this place, it used to be a part of the adjoining forest and these animals called it home. Considering that it's the natural habitat of these animals, we decided to bring that element into the station through wall art." The artists say that even though the project is not complete, it is already receiving good response from the commuters with many stopping to ask about its relevance and even clicking selfies. The organizers hope that the station will serve as an open art gallery for commuters once the project finishes.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Manoj Kumar)
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Manoj Kumar)
 
 
 
