NEW DELHI: As Turkish President Recep Tayyip   lands in Delhi, India and Turkey will attempt to put an economic-business overlay to a fairly distant political relationship. Erdogan will hold talks with PM Narendra Modi and other leaders on his first visit to India as president. 

 The two countries are expected to discuss regional security and terrorism, but both sides remain far apart on many of these issues. Erdogan takes an India-unfriendly approach particularly on Kashmir. Questioned about his views on Kashmir in an interview by a TV channel on the eve of his visit, Erdogan said, “We should not allow more casualties to occur. By strengthening multilateral dialogue, we can be involved, and through multilateral dialogue, I think we have to seek out ways to settle this question once and for all, which will benefit both countries.” 
 
 His senior foreign policy adviser, Ilnur Cevik, took a more balanced view, saying, “We feel the Kashmir situation is something for India and Pakistan to solve through negotiations and through peaceful means. Whoever is using force is doing a wrong thing. And we feel that it is a problem that the two countries have to face and bring about some practical solutions, or else there isn’t much that we can say. Regarding our support in OIC, everybody supports. In those international organisations, everybody goes along with everyone else. India went along with others in the Non-Aligned Movement and rapped Turkey on Cyprus.” 
 
 Turkey is keen to establish its companies in the building industry. Turkish companies are regarded as the best in the world, often rivalling Chinese companies. They had earlier tried to break into the Indian market but found the real estate and construction sectors to be very difficult to negotiate. This time, they are hoping Modi’s efforts to streamline business will yield dividends. 
 
 Several agreements are in the pipeline, but a defence framework agreement will be closely watched, specially given Turkey’s close ties with Pakistan. Erdogan is also expected to ask the Indian government to remove all influences of Fethullah Gulen, who he says is responsible for the failed coup against him in 2016. 
 
 "I want a win-win situation and a favourable trade balance. We opened consulates at Mumbai in 2011 and Hyderabad in 2013, so it confirms the importance Turkey attaches to India. Turkey can take greater steps to export to India. A 150-strong business delegation will accompany me to India. Maybe Turkish and Indian companies can invest in third countries,” Erdogan told the TV channel. 
 
 Issues relating to regional security, counter-terrorism and intelligence sharing situation in the Middle East, particularly Syria’s refugee problem, are likely to figure during talks between Modi and Erdogan. Cevik said, “We feel that we are also interested in nuclear cooperation with India and all other peaceful countries that seek peaceful use of nuclear technology.” Turkey has supported both Indian and Pakistani membership of Nuclear Suppliers Group, which India regards as “unhelpful.”
 
