AURANGABAD: Almost the entire state cabinet, led by chief minister  , descended upon the city for the   of  , son of state  . The bride is the daughter of well-known musician-composer  .

 The guests for the ostentatious affair ranged from an unprecedented number of VVIPs to bureaucrats and commoners from Aurangabad and Jalna. Among the politicians who turned up were two Shiv Sena ministers of state, opposition leaders and MLAs cutting across party lines.
 
 “Over 30,000 guests attended the marriage ceremony ,“ said state  . “This is not unusual as lots of people love Raosaheb Danve, who has been in public life for almost four decades.“ A structure resembling a huge medieval palace was set up on the sprawling Jabinda Estate on the outskirts of the city , where the marriage was conducted. The entrance to the estate was brightly lit with chandeliers hanging from the ceiling while a red carpet rolled from here to the stage where the couple was seated.
 
 The police kept a watch on the proceedings through drone cameras that hovered over the venue at regular intervals.
 
 The ceremony was reminiscent, though on a smaller scale, of the marriage function of Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari's daughter in Nagpur in December last year.At least ten chartered or special flights carrying VIPs were flown in to the city for the ceremony . Among the VVIPs were Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Fadnavis, Mohan Bhagwat, Maneka Gandhi and Baba Ramdev.
 
 It may be mentioned here that a bill in the Lok Sabha seeks to put a limit on the number of guests to be invited and dishes to be served at weddings to check the “show of wealth“.The bill also wants those spending above Rs 5 lakh to contribute towards the marriage of girls from the poorer sections of society.
 
 Public sentiment about the lavishness of Danve's son's marriage wasn't exactly complimentary. Many felt the celebrations could have been toned down given that the entire Marathwada region had reeled under severe drought for years, with several farmers ending their lives out of desperation.
 
 The commoners who attended the wedding were upset that the dinner fare was not standard for all guests. While they were served chapatis, puris, dal, rice and vegetables, the spread for the VVIPs included several Maharashtrian, South Indian, North Indian and Chinese dishes. In addition, the VVIPs were served five or six types of sweets.
 
 Office-goers staying in the Beed bypass area were particularly inconvenienced because of the marriage. The administration had shut the major flyover linking the Beed bypass localities to the general public and two-wheelers. Only VVIPs travelling in cars were allowed to take the flyover to reach the marriage venue. Office-goers complained of having had to take a longer route to reach home as the police had blocked the flyover much ahead of the wedding ceremony that began at 7pm.
 
 Though the ceremony went off smoothly, roads were again shut to the general public later to ensure that VVIPs had an easy exit.
 
 Sena minister of state Arjun Khotkar, who belongs to Jalna district, addressed the gathering and said he was extending his best wishes to the Danves on behalf of the citizens of Jalna. Others who extended the their wishes included Fadnavis, former chief minister Narayan Rane, opposition leader Dhananjay Munde and BJP MP Sambhajiraje Bhosle.
 
