CHENNAI: The budget session of the assembly will end on Wednesday with the house having recorded some healthy debates. DMK was at the forefront of the opposition attack against the government with health minister C   the main target. DMK deployed several first-time MLAs to take on the government on law and order, commercial taxes, home and industry. But the party failed to counter the government on allegations of milk adulteration against private firms and on the spate of ‘honour’ killings in the state. 

 The session started on June 14 with the Times Now expose on cash for vote. But, DMK MLAs present in the house were evicted and they sat on   in protest. While DMK members led by its leader   made several attempts to raise the issue, speaker P Dhanapal was firm that what had appeared in the media could not be raised in the assembly. 
 
 DMK also raised the issue of alleged payment of bribes to a minister and police officials on the sale of gutka. The ‘scam’ figured during a debate on home department’s demand for grants, raised by Stalin and deputy leader of the house S Duraimurugan. But, chief minister   defused the situation, pleading that the matter was being probed by DVAC. The house for the first time in several years saw discussions on law and order. 
 
 Speeches by DMK MLAs M Ramachandran (on law and order), V G Rajendran (housing), J L Eswarappan, E Ramar (commercial taxes-GST), S Austin (power), R T Arasu (adi dravida) and J Anbazhagan (law and order) were cheered not only by their party colleagues but also by AIADMK ministers sitting in the front row, who conveyed their appreciation by way of gestures. 
 
 The session saw healthy debates on time-tested issues like the disputed Katchchatheevu islet with both the Dravidian parties accusing each other for the current situation faced by Tamil Nadu fishermen. 
 
 DMK took on the government on issues like flight of investors from Tamil Nadu, patchy industrial growth and the state ranking low on ease of doing business. The government finally requested the opposition not to spoil the name of the state and its government and chase away investors with their alarmist statements.
 
