LUCKNOW: After analysing for 20 days evidence collected in the mysterious death of  , Forensic Science Lab (FSL) experts of the state police have failed to reach any definite conclusion. The experts who were asked to possibility of murder, in their report stated "We cannot exclude suicide or accidental death". They also said that they did not material for `Gun Shot Residue' (GSR) test which could have indicated if it was a case of "tandom shot" 

 Dr Sircar’s body was found lying in a pool of blood on the terrace of his house in  , on February 2, with with licensed gun was lying on the side. The post mortem report found two gun-shot injuries at a notable distance from each other and a third injury at the back of the skull. 
 
 Cops who had earlier concluded it to a suicide than started probing murder angle and roped in FSL which shared its findings with TOI on Friday.
 
 Reports stated that total six bullets of a .32 bore revolver were recovered from the site. Two were used, while four were live cartridges. The bullets were shot from the same gun as entry size of both were 1 cm. The distance between two wounds was 8cm. The explanation in the report was that with the impact of the first shot in which the   hit the   though middle of the forehead, another shot was triggered as a reflex and the bullet this time made an exit through the right ear.
 
 In forensic parlance, these are termed as tandem bullet shots. Due to dissimilarity in the velocity of the two bullets after being shot, one got stuck in the brain cavity and another got the exit.
 
 The contusion at the back of the skull was said to have been caused probably by his falling on the ground.
 
 The ballistic experts said the findings were based on samples collected from scene recreation. They added that had cops collected GSR from the body, clothes, floor, walls taken soon after the incident, it would have given a more clear picture of the case. Now all depends on the handwriting examination of the suicide note being done by FSL. 
 
 SSP Lucknow Manzil Saini said if handwriting proves to be of Dr Sircar, it will be considered a rare case of accidental suicide.
 
