KOZHIKODE: A key evidence, which pointed to the role of   in the murder of NDF (now PDF) leader   had surfaced, thanks to the internal strife within the   in Thalassery. 

 It has been learnt that Parivar activists themselves handed over the audio clip of a conversation between RSS worker Subeesh and another party worker to the police. In the audio clip, Subeesh speaks of the entire operation which culminated in the murder of Fazal in 2006. He repeated it in his confession later to the police when he was arrested in a case related the murder of a CPM worker a few months ago.
 
 The CPM has been maintaining that the party had no role in the NDF leader's murder. However, the police arrested a few party workers and later when the CBI took over the case it filed a chargesheet naming CPM leader Karayi Rajan and Karayi Chandrasekharan, among others.
 
 Even before Subeesh's revelation, the Crime Branch had received an anonymous letter stating the role of the Sangh Parivar in the case. Later it became known that it was written by a Sangh Parivar leader from Kannur.
 
 The inside story of Fazal's murder had begun to spread in Thalassery about one year ago. Sources told TOI that Subeesh was summoned by a senior RSS leader and warned him against divulging the murder details. Subeesh, who has been involved in many murder cases, was frantically in search of a revolver for self-defence. He contacted some of his friends in the organisation to procure the weapon. This conversation was recorded and it became a turning point in the case. 
 
 In the conversation, Subeesh said that a day before the murder the RSS and the NDF workers had clashed in Thalassery and Fazal was killed in the violence that followed. Fazal was on a bicycle and the RSS workers, including Subeesh, waylaid him near the temple gate, he had said. The PFI state leadership has so not reacted to the development so far though its district leaders have rejected Subeesh's revelations. The Sangh Parivar too has vehemently denied any role in the murder. 
 
