AHMEDABAD: Relatives and local residents of   area staged a protest at Ellisbridge police station on Friday morning demanding action against the electricity company that had recently started work to lay new electricity line and installation of new meters.

 On Thursday, Shantaben Rathod, 39, held an iron gate to get support while wading through water-logged area near her residence at about 5.30pm. She got electrocuted as electricity current was passing through the gate.  , 45, her neighbour saw her and rushed to help and she also got electrocuted. The duo died while undergoing treatment at the VS Hospital.
 
 After intervention of senior police officials including  , a case under IPC Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), was registered. After the FIR was registered bodies of the victims were taken from the VS Hospital morgue for last rites on Friday afternoon. 
 
 Senior city police officials said that the further probe was handed over to ACP (SC/ST cell), as the victims belong to dalit community and the section applied has provision for imprisonment of 10 years or more if the charges are proven.
 
 On Thursday, Shantaben Rathod, 39, held an iron gate to get support while wading through water-logged area near her residence at about 5.30pm. She got electrocuted as electricity current was passing through the gate. Ratan Maheshwari, 45, her neighbour saw her and rushed to help and she also got electrocuted. The duo died while undergoing treatment at the VS Hospital.
 
 Amit Rathod, a local resident, said that the electricity company had started the work of laying new line and installation of new meters about two months ago. “Despite start of the monsoon, the work was not completed and many of the wires are still jutting out risking peoples’ lives at risk. We came to demand justice for the victims’ families,” he said. While Rathod is survived by her husband and three children, Maheshwari had mother-in-law, husband and two children. 
 
 AS Patel, inspector of Ellisbridge police station said that Rathod’s husband Ashwin has registered a complaint against   personnel. “Apart from forensic experts, we will also seek independent opinion of the government electricity company officials to ascertain what led to the incident,” he said.
 
 The local residents also alleged that after the incident the electricity supply of the area was disconnected for over 12 hours in the area. 
 
