KOCHI:   are a rarity. Women tour guides who are multilingual are even more of a rarity. But Kochi, which figures among the most favoured destinations for globetrotters, has the unique distinction of being the home to all five female tour guides in the state escorting both desi and foreign tourists to exotic locations, right from the northern to southern tip of the state.

 The five women tour guides are especially in huge demand in tourist circles, fluent as they are in foreign languages besides English.
 
 “Guides, who are well versed in foreign languages such as Italian and German, besides English have an even higher demand during the European tourist season,“ says Ajith Kumar, an official with The   (Toak).
 
 Tour guides with registered licenses are generally very expensive, charg ing around Rs 3,000-5,000 rupees per day.
 
 “Only high profile tourists or big tour groups afford to have a tour guide with them throughout the trips, which means we can safely rule out security concerns,“ he says. But it is also a fact that not many women want to take up this profession, which is still largely maledominated. In fact, when TOI tried to speak Giree to a few of them only one of them wanted to be quoted in the newspaper.
 
 Of the total number of 1,200 government approved tourist guides with the  , there are 64 female guides in the northern region, 31 in the south region, 23 in the east and just one guide operating in the western region. “There might be a slur on the female tour guides as they have to spend days and nights with their guests while travelling with them, besides being out of station for a major chunk of time. Be cause of all these, there might be re strictions on fe male guides from families and friends which re sult in the fewer number of wom en in the on-field tourism industry,“ sh says Sylvia Henry, a lady guide based in Kochi. lady guide based in Kochi. The lack of stability in the job might be another reason for fewer number of woman professionals in the field, remarked another woman guide.
 
 “It is a very seasonal job and doesn't promise any stable employ ment,“ she says. However, Sylvia said the seasonal character of the job itself is what makes the profession very woman-friendly.
 
 “You are your own boss. There are no hassles for leaves or off days. If you do not want to work on a particular day, you don't take clients. In such way, you get to take time off for your family or for personal needs,“ Sylvia says.
 
 However, she happily adds that female guides are in good demand these days. What works in their favour is that women guides are more patient with most kinds of tourist activities that normally bugs the guides like long hours of shopping, or the countless questions about local cuisine recipes and the like.
 
 “Women groups who come to tour the state specially request for woman tour guides. Otherwise also, the tourists seems enthused when they are given a female guide as they hardly expect one in a state like ours, where there are much apprehensions about women's safety ,“ she said.
 
