

 For nearly two decades,   industry imbibed word by word this law of the jungle passed on to wolf cubs in the popular children's classic Jungle Book. Every new entrant in the industry has sworn by this vow lest they perish until dissonant voices from women and a handful of young actors threatened to break the code recently .
 
 In an industry that feeds on image, ouster of   from positions of power is just a face saver. Industry sources say that Malayalam cinema, which has revolved around select faces for past two decades, requires much more than cosmetic exercises in future. Four directors who ushered in a new wave are already mulling launch of a new organisation so that they could make films and show it freely. Amal Neerad and Anwar Rasheed had recently protested openly after they faced a ban on their movies because they had refused to co-operate with a strike call that came unannounced.
 
 “What our industry needs is a democratic set up. At present there is no space for dialogue, the moment you speak against something, you are banned and it would be unofficial,'' said a director who did not want to be named.
 
 The fall began after Malayalam cinema ceased to be known by banners or makers and began to be controlled by star power. “With the onset of caravan culture, actors disappeared after a shot and would be busy discussing business. The practice of some actors deciding other actors and even technicians has never been good to Malayalam cinema,'' said Sasi Ayyanchira, former gen secretary, producers' association. With a year left for the completion of tenure of executive committee of AMMA, a sudden change at the helm seems less probable; however, sources said a change will be forced because of several factors. From 1994 to 2015, the 17-member executive committee of AMMA had only five women members and none of them has ever made it to the top six positions. Except in 1994 and 1997, the names of office bearers have mostly remained the same ­ the sole change being a juggle of positions. Mohanlal had been vice president and general secy thrice; Innocent has not been shifted as president since 2000. K B Ganesh Kumar has been vice president four times. “When an organization is formed for the welfare of all members, you can't have a system which is run by more or less the same team for two decades. How do you expect such an organisation to act justly?'' asks an actor.
 
 AMMA has never tolerated dissonance and such voices were either nipped or forced to apologise. With the formation of women's collective and new demands on composition of executive committee popping up, a change would be inevitable, according to industry sources.
 
 
 
 
 Manikandan, the third accused in the actor rape case, has approached the high court seeking bail. He is one of the three persons accused of direct involvement in executing the `quotation'.
 
 Manikandan has contended before the court that there is no need of further detention as police has completed the investigation and has filed a chargesheet before the concerned court.
 
 However, the bail plea was stiffly opposed by the state government when it came up. In addition to pointing out the seriousness of the offences, prosecution submitted that actor Dileep has been arrested in connection with the conspiracy of the same case.
 
