BHOPAL: A 35-year-old Vyapam accused, Praveen Yadav, was found dead in his home in MP’s Morena on Tuesdaynight — a day before he was to appear before a CBI special court in Jabalpur.

 Over 45 people related to the infamous scam have either committed suicide or died under mysterious circumstances over the last decade. Many of them are from Morena.
 
 Yadav, who lived in Morena’s Maharajapur area, was a student of the 2008 batch at Jabalpur Medical College. His admission was scrapped after his name surfaced in the scam. Yadav was booked by   in 2012. He is survived by his wife and two children, aged 2 and 3 years.
 
 Family members said he was under severe depression for the past five years. The youngster, who once dreamed of being a doctor, was earning his livelihood at an oil mill. Sources say he was worried about his court hearing in Jabalpuron Thursday.
 
 He was found hanging in his house around 7am on Tuesday. Police said no suicide note was found in the room.
 
 CBI has expedited investigations into the scam after Supreme Court on Friday ordered the chargesheet to be filed by October in the trial court, along with the CFSL report on electronic evidence collected during the Vyapam investigation.
 
 The intelligence wing of   police had conducted a parallel investigation into 40 Vyapam-related deaths before the case was handed over to CBI. The probe team has ruled out any conspiracy behind the deaths. The report was submitted to the court-monitored special investigation team (SIT).
 
 CBI has not found anything different so far. MP police’s 47-page investigation report comprises briefs and findings on 40 scam-related deaths, including that of TV journalist Akshay Singh.
 
 The first case in MP police’s report is that of the death of three students of Sagar Medical College of the 2009 batch a car accident in Raisen district on June 14, 2010 — Anuj Uikey, 22, Anshul Sachan, 24, and Shyamveer Yadav, 24.
 
 The MP police report states Anuj’s father was a police inspector and he doesn’t suspect foul play. “Anuj’s name surfaced as a middleman in three Vyapam cases after his death, so it cannot be related to the scam,” says the report. Anuj was a resident of Maharajpura Mandla.
 
 The report says that while Anshul was named ‘middleman’ in four Vyapam cases, Shyamveer was named in three. Their names surfaced after their death and family members have no doubt, it says.
 
 Next, Anand Singh Yadav, a resident of Fatehpur (UP), died in a road accident in UP on October 9, 2013. The report says that Yadav, who studied in  , was named as ‘middleman’ in five Vyapam cases after his death. The family members harbor no suspicion, it adds.
 
 The next to die was Aditya Chaudhary alias Ravi Pippal, 24, a resident of Morena and student of 2004 batch of MGM Medical College, Indore. His body was found hanging from the ceiling of his hotel room on October 25, 2010. He was named middleman by an accused, who was arrested on June 29, 2014. “He died two years before his name surfaced, so his death cannot be linked to the scam,” the report says.
 
 Another alleged middleman in three cases, 23-year-old Vikas Thakur, died of suspected poisoning on November 21. A resident of Barwani, he was a student of Mhow Veterinary College. Again, all three cases were registered five years after his death.
 
 The report mentions similar findings in all the other deaths, including the most sensational ‘Namrata Damor murder case’. Namrata was a 2010-batch student of  , who was found dead on railway tracks on January 7, 2012. MP police reported that her admission was cancelled on suspicion of using unfair means. Her name was linked to Vyapam on May 06, 2014 — two years and four months after her death. So this case cannot be linked to Vyapam scam, said the police report.
 
 TV journalist Akshay Singh died under mysterious circumstances while trying to investigate links between Damor and the Vyapam scam.
 
 Despite having questioned more than 40 people, CBI has not been able to conclude the case.
 
