MUMBAI: The   department of Maharashtra has recently launched a brave and relentless campaign against overcharging and dual MRP practices by   and business entities. The department attributes the success of the move to alert citizens who are keenly aware of their rights and are proactively coming forward to file complaints.

 In fact the department is receiving such a flood of requests over its helpline and WhatsApp numbers that it is not activating its Twitter handle until it can generate the manpower and infrastructure to handle so many cases.
 
 Amitabh Gupta, additional DG and controller of legal metrology, says, "Consumers are now fighting aggressively against injustice. Companies also, after the initial resistance, are mostly willing to comply. In the past year my department has filed cases against Flipkart, Amazon, Pepsi, Coke, Monginis and LPG dealers. We have instructed  . (MIAL), Board of Control for Cricket in India and   (MCA) to curb overcharging by vendors and they have agreed to comply. And the change is slowly visible.''
 
 "Do you know that some manufacturers actually devise two separate MRPs for the same product? A bottle of water that is labelled Rs 20 in general stores will be labelled Rs 60 at premier locations like airports, and to top it all, the vendor will sell it for Rs 100-150. The `m' in MRP means maximum. How can you have two maximums? We have firmly instructed the airport authorities to stop these malpractices and they have agreed. We have even sent notices to manufacturers Pepsi and Coke to rein in this unscrupulous practice of devising two MRPs,'' said Gupta.
 
 The department had 259 pending appeals in 2016 but by January 2017, 244 have been cleared. Only 15 are pending. Moreover the LMO has voluntarily come under the Right to  , 2011, which ensures timebound redressal within 30 days in government offices.
 
 However, the LMO is unable to function to its optimal capacity given the shortage of infrastructure, vehicles and manpower. "There has been a manifold increase in Mumbai's population as well as commercial enterprises and hawkers, but we have 900 staff members where we require 1,400. We have also requested the government for computers and office space.'' The department currently works out of an old-world government barrack along Free Press Marg in Nariman Point but may soon shift to the MTNL building at Kala Ghoda.
 
 Not all campaigns have achieved their target, though. The LMO fought a bitter battle to enforce MRP on milk packets but vendors continue to overcharge to this day. `"Well, but we got the manufacturers to reprint their packs clearly stating that the MRP includes cooling and transportation charges. Earlier consumers would pay more out of sympathy or believing that vendors did in fact incur cost overheads. Now at least they know this is not so and they can complain if they are overcharged,'' says Gupta.
 
