KOCHI: The   (MCI) has denied approval for the PG courses Government Medical College, Ernakulam, leaving students in the lurch. The first student who successfully completed his PG course from the college a few months ago is yet to receive his certificate as the MCI rejected approval for the course citing various lapses. They are shortage of faculty , equipment and other facilities. The remaining  , who are to appear for exams in May June, are likely to face the same situation in the next few months.

 Though MCI had given approval for starting PG courses, college authorities or the government couldn't procure adequate equipment like MRI scanner, appoint enough faculty and provide a proper library for the students to acquire experience. “Before conducting examinations, MCI team would conduct its inspections. They have identified some issues which we have to rectify immediately ,“ said principal of the medical college Dr  . “Last week, the director of medical education had visited the college.Then, we had brought up the issue befo re her. We have taken up the issue with the state government as well. We expect the government to address these problems before the MCI team's next visit,“ she said.
 
 In  , the go vernment has not even created the post of professor. In pathology department, there is shortage of associate professors. In paediatrics department, there is shortage of assistant professors.There are three PG seats in medicine, while paediatrics, pathology and psychiatry departments have two seats each.
 
 The shortage of equipment and facilities are more important as it would affect all departments. “The faculty shortage would affect the prospects of only the students concerned. But, shortage of equipment like MRI scanner would cause difficulty for all students.Such things may lead to the denial of approval to all PG courses. Even the library at the medical college doesn't ha ve the much required medical magazines,“ said a doctor with the medical college. Though there is a CT scanner at the medical college, it is run by a private agency . “We will have to start specialty clinics (like paediatrics cardiology) as well to secure MCI recognition for PG courses,“ he said.
 
 The issue of faculty shortage and facility is huge problem for MBBS students too. In many departments like biochemistry, there is a shortage of faculty. In biochemistry, the post of associate professor remains vacant while there is a vacancy for assistant professor in paediatrics.
 
 As per MCI norms, there should be at least four surgery units for 100 MBBS seats. But the college has only two surgery units. In surgery department, posts of one associate professor and four assistant professors are vacant. If authorities don't take urgent steps to rectify these issue, students will be at the receiving end.
 
