UDAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau ( ) has lodged criminal complaint against 9 persons including top authorities of the Vardhman   (VMOU), popularly known as  .

 The complaint has been lodged in Jaipur, however, the investigation would be carried out in Kota, authorities said. Besides, the ACB has also asked the state government to initiate departmental action against Ashok Sharma, the vice-chancellor of the university to assess his role in the scam. The letter would be sent to the governor who is the chancellor of all universities. The ACB had in February held a sudden raid at the stationery printing and distribution cell of VMOU and exposed a scam related to supply of substandard material during year 2015.
 
 “There had been a complaint of norms violation in a tender for stationery supplies during the said year. We raided the varsity godown and seized bulk of stationery, books, forms etc which were found to be of lower quality than the set parameters of supply,” said Thakur Chandrasheel, additional SP (ACB), Kota.
 
 He added, “A detailed inquiry was held and we sent a report to the headquarters which after verification of the allegations, decided to take up the case.” An FIR has been lodged against the university’s finance officer Suresh Chandra Sharma, director of the publications department Prof Karan Singh, registrar D K Singh, program officer Abhishek Nagar, additional director-publication department Subodh Kumar Agnihotri, co-ordinator Leelaram Gurjar, Patanjali Mishra, Arun Kumar and the proprietor of the printing press firm Amit Aggrawal.
 
 The scam is estimated to be around Rs 5 crore. In the course of investigation, an FSL examination of the stationery would be done to assess the paper quality. The ACB had received a complaint in February related to irregularities in sanctioning of a tender for stationery supplies for the year 2015. A work order of Rs 10 crore was released to a firm called   which did not qualify the bidding eligibility, the complaint said.
 
 The work order included printing complete course material for students registered for various graduate and post graduate courses covered under distant education, prospectus, admission and examination forms etc. The firm had allegedly used C-class paper instead of A-class and had delivered stapled material instead of the binding ones, thus cutting the cost price radically.
 
 This benefitted the supplier firm largely and caused great loss to the state exchequer. The university charges fees from its students who enrol for various graduate and post graduate courses in humanities, commerce, library science, informatics under distant education scheme. The university has regional centers at Ajmer, Bikaner, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Udaipur and Bharatpur. 
 
 
