NAGPUR: You have to attempt all questions no matter what. And you can only answer all questions if you are thorough with the chapters from the textbook.

 During the allotted reading time, carefully read the question paper. Make sure that 1-mark questions are not answered extremely briefly. They should have at least have two sentences. For long answer questions, elaborate properly on each point.
 
 Also, you have to ensure that the order of points is from most important to least important. That is because if you happen to exceed the word limit, your important points might be left out by the examiner. So, you have to be very sure about the order of points.
 
 You should have good and comprehensible writing skills. Time management is also very important. Your   should be over fifteen minutes before so that revision can be done. Practice well for some of the math calculations.
 
 Make sure that your answers are not vague. We know that you have lengthy answers to write in   exam but you need to have clarity and good content. Even if you are writing two pages for a 5-mark question, you should have valid points.
 
 Solve sample and previous years’ papers. While you are doing that, set a timer so you can determine your speed. Throughout the academic year, you are focusing on maths and science, but for social science, you prefer to study just before the exam. That is the incorrect way.
 
 One more very important thing is learning through writing. It is actually the correct way of studying. It ensures perfect memorization. You have to develop a habit of checking your paper properly. Do not worry. Be fast and efficient. You should also get proper sleep before the exam. Do not stay up all night cramming the topics. Prepare a time table and follow it religiously. Keep cool while writing the exam.
 
 The writer is a teacher at Modern School, Koradi
 
 Paper format:
 
 Subject: Social science (CBSE, X)
 
 Exam date: April 8
 
 Exam time: 10.30am-1.30pm 
 
 Marks: 90
 
 Expert tips
 
 Be thorough with the chapters
 
 Solve previous years’ question papers
 
 Write answers with clarity
 
 Last-minute revision tips
 
 Go through key points of every chapter
 
 Retain those points in your head
 
 Keep cool while revising
 
 
