NEW DELHI: India asked Beijing on Wednesday to be sensitive to its sovereignty and said its rise should not be seen as a threat by China.

 Addressing the  , foreign secretary   said Beijing had so far refused to show any consideration for India's sovereignty . “China is a country which is very sensitive on matters concerning its sovereignty . So we would expect that they would have some understanding of other people's sensitivity on their sovereignty ,“ he said, adding India would focus a lot more on diplomacy with China in 2017.
 
 “With China, the overall broadening of ties, especially in business and people-to-people contacts, has been overshadowed by differences on certain political issues. But it is important for the two countries not to lose sight of the strategic nature of their engagement, or falter in their conviction that their rise can be mutually supportive,“ he said. On  , he said India stands for freedom of navigation and respect for international laws.
 
 Calling terrorism the most “pervasive and serious“ threat to global security,   rued lack of coherence in dealing with the menace, stressing on the need to reform the UN so that it could deal with major challenges effectively , an oblique hint at India's disappointment over China blocking the sanctioning of JeM chief Masood Azhar. Jaishankar said dealing with the threat of terrorism is the major focus of India's diplomacy .
 
 Accusing Pakistan of holding Saarc hostage, Jaishankar acknowledged that India is using sub groupings like BBIN and BIMSTEC to get around Islamabad's obduracy .“We hoped to partially remedy this (Pakistan's obstruction) through the BBIN (Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal) sub-regional grouping. It is also our expectation that the current level of enthusiasm among members of BIMSTEC can be channelled towards more far-reaching initiatives,“ he said.
 
 Exasperated with the UN, Jaishankar described the body as an “absurdity“. “The absurdity of the main multilateral decision-making body being more than 70 years old -and due for retirement anywhere in the world -is obvious to all except those with a vested interest. “ he said.
 
 He said relations with the US, Russia and Japan have been on an upswing. Jaishankar said, “We established early contact with the Trump transition team and see a strong convergence of interests and concerns.“ This was the first time India acknowledged officially that there was a similar outlook between the Trump administration and New Delhi. Also for the first time, India openly approved of the outreach to Russia by US president-elect  .Jaishankar stated, “ An improvement in US-Russia ties is not against Indian interests.“ 
 
 
