PANAJI: Very few   manage to relish the   of local chicken, which agro scientists say has the flavour of game meat, but all this may change soon due to the fluctuating conditions for the  

 The demand for desi chicken is growing, as people are becoming more health conscious and desi meat is far tastier than the broiler variety. Local birds and their eggs fetch double the price than the commercial variety of poultry.
 
 “A shift from commercial poultry to backyard poultry farming (BPF) is likely, as animal welfare activists have challenged the caged farming concept on ethical grounds and sheer cruelty to animals,” R S Rajkumar, scientist (poultry science) ICAR, Old Goa, said. In comparison, backyard poultry farming has a host of advantages for people’s health, economy and the environment. “Eggs and meat from birds reared under free range conditions have low cholesterol concentration. The meat is tastier due to their free movement and fat is not accumulated superficially under the skin like broilers,” Rajkumar said. 
 
 The Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Old Goa, has been chosen as one of the centres for the ICAR poultry seed project to boost the eco-friendly poultry sector. Local chicken feed on insects and agro waste and a dozen of them can produce more than a kilograme of manure per day, which integrates with agricultural operations.
 
 Promotion of BPF is one of the key components of the Prime Minister’s scheme to double the farmers income by 2022. The Supreme Court is hearing a petition urging it to impose a ban on keeping poultry animals in suffocating cages. 
 
 ICAR-directorate of poultry research, Hyderabad, has developed four improved strains of backyard poultry Gramapriya, Vanaraja, Srinidhi and Krishibro to maximize egg and meat production. “Under this project, parent stock of these chicken varieties will be maintained and propagated for distribution to Goan farmers,” Eknath Chakurkar, director, ICAR, Old Goa said.
 
 Goa had about 90 commercial poultry projects, but due to   of feed and labour, pests among birds and other problems, hardly 10 have survived. Farmers are slowly taking up BPF with more disease-resistant birds that adapt better to varying climactic conditions. 
 
