PUNE: The recent cases of violence against medical practitioners have once again highlighted the crucial issue of effective doctor-patient communication.

 Most senior medical experts believe that the doctors need to be supported by soft skills to be successful with their patients. Public healthcare expert Rajiv Yeravdekar said doctors can no longer behave in a paternalistic manner and expect their patients to respect them. “They need to make special efforts to develop a good rapport with their patients. For this to happen, the doctors require good communication skills,” Yeravdekar, who is dean of the   at   (SIU), said.
 
 Yeravdekar said the communication skills are as much a discipline as any medical field and require as much serious attention of all healthcare professionals.
 
 In the introduction to the soon-to-be published book ‘Communication Skills for Patient Care’ by Abhijit Deshpande, noted cardiologist senior physician H V Sardesai has stated that the patient community consists not only of the ailing person, but also his/her relatives, friends and well-wishers.
 
 In the prefatory comments to the book, senior educationist S B Mujumdar, founder of Symbiosis, said appointing guards and bouncers to protect the doctors might even worsen the relationship between the doctors and their patients.
 
 “Medicine, like teaching, is an area where complete trust is necessary between the person who provides a service and the person who receives the service. What is needed here is a symbiosis between the medical community and the patient community and the most effective tool to achieve this is good communication,” Mujumdar said.
 
 A book on  , titled ‘Communication, Care, Cure- A Guide to Healthcare Communication’, indicates the importance of communication in healthcare and its benefits to the stakeholders including the patients. 
 
 “Studies conducted during the past three decades show that the clinician’s ability to explain, listen and empathize can have a profound effect on biological and functional health outcomes as well as patient satisfaction and experience of care,” healthcare expert  , consultant, National Health Scheme, UK, said.
 
