PATNA: Denizens of the state capital can quench their thirst even with   (palm nectar) that is now available at three locations in the city to begin with. 

 The three sale counters are situated near   (Income Tax roundabout), Udyog Bhawan (Gandhi Maidan) and main gate of Patna zoo. The counters open by 9am and the stock exhausts generally within two hours. One glass (200ml) of neera costs Rs10, and there are people who consume up to five glasses. 
 
 “The response that we have so far from the public is amazing. Every day the distributors are provided 40 to 45 litres,” said Anil Kumar Yadav, project manager at Jeevika. 
 
 “We have over 286 counters in Gaya, Nalanda, Nawada, Banka, Bhagalpur, Samastipur, Aurangabad, Muzaffarpur, Vaishali, Saran, Jehanabad and Patna districts. There are nearly 16 counters in Patna district alone,” said Yadav, adding that the response is very good at all places. 
 
 To ensure daily availability of neera, Jeevika has roped in around 31,000 toddy tappers. “We give two-day extensive training to toddy tappers on how to tap good quality of neera and how to keep it hygienic and increase its shelf life,” he said.
 
 Talking about future plans, he said sugar-free neera peda would be launched soon. There are plans to open four more neera outlets this month near Gandhi Maidan, Sri Krishna Puri park (Boring Road), Patna Junction and Meethapur bus stand. 
 
 “We are working on the idea of producing flavoured neera and neera ice cream,” Kumar said. 
 
 Jay Prakash, who trains the tappers, said more than 500 groups have already been trained by Jeevika and producing quality product like peda, ice cream,” he said. 
 
 Deputy director (industries department)   said 26,343 out of 3,18,400 trained tappers have been given licences. “Apart from the 12 priority districts, Bihar Agricultural University is training tappers from 26 other districts and we also plan to make jaggery,” he said.
 
 Bihar State Milk Cooperative Federation, also known as Comfed, has tied up with Jeevika for packaging of neera in bottles. “The process is under experiments and sampling and we expect it will be soon available in the market,” said Singh.
 
 Sanjay Kumar manning Jeevika’s neera counter near Vidyut Bhawan said that usually his stock exhausts between two-three hours at max. “We open the stall by 9am and to our surprise many people even consume five glasses in one go,” said Sanjay.
 
 Neeraj Kumar, a resident of Nageshwar colony, said he consumes neera every morning. “I feel it is better than any artificial cold drink,” he said. 
 
 Archana Tiwari of Mandiri road also wants government to increase neera sale as it has many medicinal properties. “It is beneficial for liver, among other things. Once you drink it, you will feel coolness seeping through your body. Perfect for this hot summer,” she said.
 
 Sexagenarian Baldeo Singh, a morning walker at Gandhi Maidan, was disappointed on Wednesday as the neera stall near Udyog Bhawan had shut down earlier than other days. 
 
