GURUGRAM: Dreaded gangster Surender Geong was   by police in an “encounter” in Karnal’s Rahra village on Saturday. 

 He was wanted by Gurgaon police in connection with the murders of gangster Mahesh alias Attack and Manish Gujjar, the elder brother of jailed gangster and former councillor Binder Gujjar, last year.
 
 A close aide of slain gangster Sandeep Gadoli, Kaithal boy Geong had been missing since May 23 last year after he got out on parole from Jhajjar jail. Some 10 days ago, a crime branch team of Gurgaon police had come close to nabbing him, but he managed to escape.
 
 Police sources said after Gadoli’s death, Geong had joined hands with gangster Kaushal to eliminate their rivals and expand their gambling and illicit liquor businesses in Gurgaon. Both of them were involved in Attack’s murder in September last year and Manish’s killing a month later. Manish’s brother Binder was Gadoli’s rival.
 
 According to sources, Geong and Kaushal’s role in Attack’s murder came to the fore after the gang’s shooter Vikas was arrested on October 10 last year. Since then, Gurgaon police had launched a manhunt to nab the duo.
 
 “Some 10 days ago, we were almost on the verge of nabbing Geong who was going towards Sonipat in a Tata Sumo, along with his two accomplices — Rohit and Rajesh. Based on a tip-off, we followed their vehicle, but they managed to give us the slip in Sonipat,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Geong, who ran an extortion racket in Kaithal, had escaped to South Africa after killing a plywood dealer, Narinder Arora, in March 2006. In 2008, he was extradited to India with the help of Interpol. In a trial that followed, Geong and his aides — Baljeet and Jogender — were sentenced to life in jail in 2014 before he jumped the one-month parole in May 2016.
 
 In September last year, a special investigation team was formed by Haryana police to nab Geong after a petition by   spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala at the Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
 Kaushal, a resident of Naharpur Rupa village, is also a parole jumper from Faridabad jail and is wanted in more than a dozen cases of murder, robbery and theft.
 
 “Geong has been killed in an  . Our teams have now launched a manhunt to nab Kaushal. We hope he will be arrested soon,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), Gurgaon.
 
 
