PATNA: A year after the enforcement of total   across the state, the   government has decided to focus on  , the two social ills still plaguing the society.
 
  “We will soon begin a comprehensive campaign against dowry and child marriage like the one we did against liquor,” Bihar   announced on Monday while addressing the inaugural function of the two-day national conclave on Gandhi organized to mark the beginning of the centenary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi’s  .
  
  It was on April 10, 1917 when Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi had arrived in Patna by train on way to Champaran to see the plight of Indigo farmers. “Earlier, people used to discuss dowry-like issue in a hush-hush tone. But, nowadays, they are openly demanding dowry. The way dowry demand has increased is worrisome. We have decided to launch a big campaign involving all the stakeholders against the dowry system and child marriage,” CM said.
  
  Reasserting his commitment to the Gandhian thoughts, Nitish said he was inspired by the Mahatma to launch the campaign against social evils like liquor, dowry and child marriage.
  
  He also announced a separate campaign to take the ideology of Mahatma Gandhi to each home in the state. “We will knock each door to convey the thoughts of Gandhi ji. The government will soon make a film on the Gandhi’s ideals. The film will be screened in all the villages even up to a population of 100 people. Schoolchildren will also be informed about the works and ideals of Gandhi after the morning prayers every day,” Nitish said.
  
  He said even if 10% of the new generation is convinced about the ideals of Gandhi, the society would be positively changed in the next 10 to 15 years.
  
  Prominent Gandhian thinkers like former West Bengal governor Gopal Krishna Gandhi, social activist Medha Patkar, Justice (retd) Chandrashekhar Dharmadhikari, Justice (retd) Rajinder Sachar, prominent Gandhian S N Subbarao and some other speakers lauded Nitish for his decision to implement liquor ban in Bihar. Medha and Subbarao said other states must follow the Bihar model of liquor ban to give a befitting tribute to Gandhi in the centenary year of his Champaran Satyagrah.
