NAGPUR: “With the rising volume of packaging waste, we are drowning in plastic”, said Milind Pagare during an expert talk on ‘Plastic Waste Management’ on Friday at India Peace Centre (IPC), Civil Lines.

 Core committee member Sulabha Chakravarty took this initiative as ‘Environment, Disarmament and Human Rights’ are the key concerns of IPC. Dr Yugal Rayulu said that this is IPCs little effort to contribute towards enivornment. During the speech as chief guest, DCP Deepali Masirkar said, “We are widely dependant on   and leading life without it is a tough challenge. Even though we know the hazards of plastic, we don’t cut down on its use as it is convenient.”
 
 Pagare said that things made of plastic are cheap. They save time and energy in daily routine at the cost of health and  . To meet the demands of growing population, more plastic is being generated. “From mineral water bottles, pens, plates to cigarette lighters. Plastic is everywhere. Cosmetic and toothpastes have an element called microbeads that adversely effects human health”, he exclaimed.
 
 A slide show was presented to acquaint the audience with the ill effects of plastic occurring in today’s world. The slides explained how microbeadsabsorb toxins in water which are eaten by marine life. They can make their way up the food chain all the way to our dinner plates.It also showed that throwing thrash on streets is a destructive human behaviour. Animals and birds unintentionally consume these plastic particles and die. Many species are on the verge of extinction. Solutions were suggested by Pagare to overcome with the crisis. He insisted on adding another ‘R’ to the ‘Reuse, Reduce and Recyle’ Mantra. That is ‘Refuse’, which implies to living an absolutely plastic free life.
 
 He explained the importance of waste management. He said, “Solid and liquid waste should be segregated efficiently to prevent damaging the earth’s ecosystem and maintain a high quality of life.”
 
 Dr. John Menachery, Dr. Vikas Jambhulkar, Shalini Arora, NG Alvinson Bernard, Simran Thakur and Vilas Shende prominently helped in the smooth execution of the programme. Vote of thanks was proposed by Adv Laxmi Malewar.
 
 
