Mumbai: A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Wednesday granted bail to controversial   preacher Zakir Naik’s alleged confidant, Aamir  . 

 Gazdar was arrested in February in a money-laundering case connected to Naik’s Islamic Research Foundation ( ). The court granted the relief on a bond of Rs 5 lakh. 
 
 Gazdar’s advocates, Mubin Solkar, Taraq Sayyed and Abad Ponda, denied that he could be held liable for any offences under the Act. They submitted that he was not the office-bearer or member of IRF and has been in custody for five months.
 
 The court, while imposing conditions on the release, said he was to leave the country without court permission and had to surrender his passport to the Enforcement Directorate office. “He shall not directly or indirectly make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the court or to any officer of the ED, or tamper with evidence,” the court said. Gazdar was also directed to visit the   office every fortnight.
 
 The ED initiated an investigation under PMLA by recording a case against Naik and others, including Gazdar, on December 22, 2016. The case against Gazdar was that he was appointed director on almost six firms started by Naik, where funds were laundered. The ED said the foundation was illegal and against the interest of the country and social and communal harmony, and funds it received from India and abroad were tainted. Gazdar was arrested on February 16.
 
 IRF was declared unlawful as per a notification on November 17, 2016. NIA’s Mumbai branch booked Naik and others under Section 18 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), that relates to terror conspiracy, Section 10 and 13 of UAPA, which deal with being a member of an unlawful association, and punishment for unlawful activities respectively, and Section 153A of IPC (inciting communal hatred).
 
 The court pointed that it was clear that there were no allegations or evidence indicating the accused laundered money through Harmony Media, Naik’s alleged company in which Gazdar had been director, after November 17, 2016. “Till filing of the FIR dated November 18, 2016, from the date of notification, there are no allegations against present accused for commission of offences under sections 15 and 16 of UAPA. Events can be said to have committed only after the notification issued becomes effective,” the court said.
 
