TOI Sports bring to you the all the updates from the Superstar shake-up from Monday Night  

 
 
 
 The Superstar Shake-up week started with a bang as  's music hit on Monday Night RAW much to the dismay and delight of the   crowd. But it was not the Cenation leader nor Nikki Bella who came out, in fact it was the A-Lister The Miz and his wife Maryse dressed as Cena and Bella who came out thus reaffirming their switch from   Live to Monday Night RAW.
 
 However, roughly two minutes in to The Miz's promo, the former Intercontinental Champion was interrupted by the current Intercontinental Champion, Dean Ambrose - the third Superstar who switched from the Blue brand to the Red Brand and he made his arrival clear by putting down The Miz with the Dirty Deeds.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 After withering the early storm by the New Day, Revival went on to isolate Xavier Woods with their trademark tag manoeuvres before Woods tagged in Big E with a reversal on the backdrop followed by a straight elbow to the face of Scott Dawson. Big E got his big moves in, and set up Dawson for the midnight hour, but the Revival turned the tables with Wilder pushing Big E to the corner and a leaping Woods ate a spectacular Shatter Machine.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Perkins went on the offensive early on against Aries with Cruiserweight champion Neville on the Commentary Box. A mistimed pendulum drop kick allowed Aries to fightback but it did not take Nevillie long to interfere and distract Aries allowing Perkins to surprise Aires with a small package. After the match Perkins attacked Aries and turned heel.
 
  confirmed Seth Rollins will be on Monday Night RAW despite RAW Commissioner Stephanie McMahon stating the she wants Rollins out of RAW.. Samoa Joe then attacked Rollins, but the plan backfired as Rollins retaliated well to push Joe outside the ring and stood tall.
 
 
 
 
 Jax dominated the early proceedings with Charlotte making some sporadic attacks. The former Women's champion managed a Natural selection but Jax powered out. Jax went on to drop Charlotte straight on her head after evading a chop. However, Charlotte was unfazed and built momentum after Jax crashed in to the steel post. A moonsault outside the ring was followed by a 10-count break. Charlotte went for the figure eight, but Jax countered throwing Charlotte in to the turnbuckle and then proceeded for the Samoan drop to pick up the victory.
 
 
 
 
 On his first singles competition since returning from injury, Balor ate a stiff elbow from Mahal but finishing off the Indo-canadian wrestler with a coup de grace. But the demon king was in for a huge surprise as he was confronted by none other than the Eater of the Worlds Bray Wyatt, making him the fourth Smackdown Live superstar to be moved to Monday Night RAW.
 
 Smackdown Live's Apollo Crews joined Monday Night RAW along with Lucha Sensation Kalisto and tag team division's Rhyno and Heath Slater
 
 
 
 
 End to end action with Zayn countering most of Miz's offense. Maryse made her presence felt by blocking Zayn from going over the top and then helping her husband evade the Helluva kick. Maryse grabbed on to Zayn's leg to distract him, but The Miz's skull crushing finale was countered by Zayn with a roll through and the Undrdog from the Underground picked up an unlikely victory.
 
 Braun Strowman interrupted Michael Cole's interview with Roman Reigns backstage, beating Reigns all through the area and then while stretching him out, Strowman threw Reigns with the stretcher. Once in the ambulance, the former strongman flipped over the Ambulance with Reigns in it.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Spots for the Hardy's throughout with Matt putting one half of the Shining Star through the Twist of Fate before Jeff finished it off with Swanton Bomb
 
 
 
 
 Two-time Smackdown Live champion   interrupted RAW women's champion Bailey and Sasha Banks and made her presence felt loud and clear in Long Island. However, Bliss was also interrupted by her former aid Mickey James. Nia Jax finished off the segment dismantling James, Sasha and Bailey.
 
  
  
 Intercontinental Champion Dean Ambrose pins United States Champion Kevin Owens
 
 After planting Owens with the Dirty Deeds, Ambrose won the main event but   made a surprise appearance and punished Owens further to close out the show.
 
  
  
 
