NEW DELHI: The JNU administration on Thursday won a major relief from the Delhi high   when it dismissed a   by students challenging its latest admission   of putting a cap on number of students per professor for MPhil and PhD courses.

 Justice V K Rao said that the varsity’s   norms have to follow the University Grants Commission (UGC) notification of last year and it cannot deviate from these norms.
 
 HC observed that “the binding nature of the said regulations is not dependent upon it being adopted or accepted by the respondent university or any other university in the country. In other words, the regulations are binding on the university by operation of law, i.e., UGC Act of 1956.”
 
 The students had claimed that proper procedure was not followed by JNU while adopting the UGC notification but the court rejected this argument and reminded the students that the UGC Act, under which the regulation was issued, has been enacted by Parliament and prevails over any individual rules or Act framed by the university laying down procedure of admission.
 
 The students had submitted that the regulation only sets out minimum standards to be followed and it was for JNU to decide how to implement them.
 
 But HC noted that “The UGC having framed the regulations, vide the notification of 2016, the varsity is required to follow the same. It is legally impermissible for JNU to formulate its own admission policy in violation of UGC Act and the regulations,” it said.
 
 HC, however, agreed that JNU’s decision to change the weightage, for admission to the two courses, in the ratio of 80:20 of written and viva voce, was a deviation from the regulations and could not have been allowed, a stand that was later accepted by the administration during arguments.
 
 JNU had maintained in court that the UGC Notification (Regulations) shall apply to every university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, a Provincial Act or a State Act etc, and is binding and is mandatorily to be followed by all universities including JNU.
 
