PUNE: Sub-inspector Jaisingh Kadam’s pleas and attempts to stop Pravin Dwarkadas Bansal (42), a resident of Yerawada, from entering a wada in Shukrawar Peth that was gutted in a fire at 3am on Wednesday were of no use. 

 The wada which is over a 100 years old is in Tambaku Ali, separating Budhwar and Shukrawar Peths. 
 
 Despite repeated warnings, Bansal, who owns two shops in the wada, went in to check the damage. Just then one of the walls crumbled trapping Bansal under the debris. He sustained serious injuries and was pulled out by the fire brigade staff who took him to Sassoon General Hospital where doctors declared him dead. Four   who took part in the operation also sustained minor injuries in the wall collapse. 
 
 Fire brigade officials said since the entire wada was gutted, they are unable to pinpoint the cause of the fire. Two adjacent unoccupied wadas too suffered partial damage in the fire. The wada has no residents and is deserted in the night. It houses two shops, both owned by Bansal and his relatives. An old temple, Shri Harihar Mandir, located in the backyard of the wada escaped the blaze.
 
 It took an hour for 10 fire tenders and a few water tankers to control the fire. Local residents, including Ganesh Sonawane, helped the firemen in the operation. Bansal’s   in the wada stocked carpets, floor cleaners, pooja items such as cotton, thread, camphor and other household articles some of which are inflammable, the fire brigade officials said.
 
 Sonawane said two persons sitting near the wada noticed smoke coming out and immediately raised an alarm. Others informed the police.
 
  “I stay in the neighbouring wada which is also built of wood and bricks. I have known this wada for more than three decades. It was a single-storeyed structure with two big shops in the front. There were a few rooms in the back portion but nobody lives there,” he said. 
 
 After receiving an emergency call, fire brigade officials and the night round staff of the Faraskhana police, including Kadam, reached the spot. The fire tenders arrived despite the narrow lanes.
 
 A resident called Bansal, who arrived at 4.30am, when the fire had been put out and the cooling procedure was on.
 
 Kadam was monitoring the proceedings at the spot when he saw Bansal running around looking for an opening to enter the wada. “Kadam grabbed him and told him not to enter the wada,” senior police inspector Rekha Salunkhe of the Faraskhana police station said.
 
 After a while, Bansal once again made an attempt to enter the wada when Kadam stopped him and explained in detail the risks involved in entering the damaged wada. 
 
 Ignoring the advice, Bansal stepped into the wada around 6.20am while two firemen were still spraying water on the portion gutted in the fire. As soon as Bansal entered, an old wall crumbled trapping him under the debris. 
 
 Some of it fell on four firemen – Sachin Javanjale, Jitendra Sapate, Mahesh Gargote and Nilesh Vitthal Karne – causing injuries on their legs, divisional fire officer Sunil Gilbile said.
 
