KOLKATA: A British man walked 2,500km along the east coast in less than six months to raise funds for an  .

  (63) set out from Kanyakumari on October 3, 2016, and crossed four states and over three dozen towns and cities to reach the office of NGO   in Kolkata on February 24.
 
 Baddeley had been to India before and it was that exposure to the weather and the food that gave him courage to undertake this journey. In fact, he had been toying with the idea of embarking on a road trip in memory of his daughter Katie. Hence the name ‘K Walk’.
 
 Baddeley has been visiting India since the early 1970s, when he was in college. “Before I embarked on the mission, I had some idea about the weather, food and people. My knowledge worked to my advantage,” he said. 
 
 Baddeley chose Future Hope as the beneficiary of the funds collected since he was impressed with the children the NGO was supporting and also the way it provided them with an “atmosphere of love and security”.
 
 Baddeley walked through Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Bengal, along the east coast, for over six hours a day. “Initially, it was very hot so I would wake up early and start walking. By the time the sun was at its peak, I would be through with my walking. My Man Friday and chauffer Dhirendra Singh would then pick me up in the car provided by Voler Cars,” said Patrick.
 
 So did he switch to a particular diet to keep himself nourished and avoid the spicy Indian food? Not really.
 
 “I relied on the local food, eating from roadside eateries. Thankfully, everything agreed with my digestive system and was very tasty.”
 
 He recalled several interactions he had throughout his walk. “People were cordial everywhere. Once I was walking down a road in Andhra Pradesh when a biker passing by offered me a lift. I told him that I was there to walk and have promised people I will raise money by walking. He did not understand Hindi and kept insisting. I had a trying time explaining my mission. In Kanyakumari, a samosa seller insisted that I take a bagful of samosas from him. Many heard my story and pooled in money for the  .” 
 
 Every day was a learning experience for him, especially when it came to language, said Baddeley. “In Andhra, locals taught me words over a cup of tea at a dhaba. The same happened in Kerala and Tamil Nadu.”
 
 
