CHENNAI: Little Mysa Arumugam vaguely remembers the night death claimed her father. Arumugham, an autorickshaw driver, was killed on September 19 last year when 22-year-old racer  's Porsche car ploughed into a row of autorickshaws parked on   in the city. Vikash was found to be drunk. 

 Less than a year after Mysa's world came crashing down, Vikash, who is out on bail, is winning accolades in the racing circuit. But an orphaned Mysa, who is being brought up by her grandmother in Tiruttani, is yet to receive any compensation. Her mother had committed suicide over a family issue a few months before she lost her father.
 
 Mysa's family members are not aware of Vikash's release from prison. The child, who is studying in Class I, is yet to get the relief fund Vikash had deposited to get bail.
 
 Said Arumugam's brother Muthu: "The child is being taken care of by our family members. Last month we got a call from the Adyar traffic investigation wing police. A policeman wanted to know Mysa's Aadhaar card details and her bank account number. When I asked him the reason, he said the girl will soon receive the compensation amount through the court."
 
 Muthu said when he asked the policemen if anyone should come to the police station, the police informed him that was not necessary. "We had no idea if we will get the compensation," he said
 
 When contacted, Vikash's counsel Prabhakaran, a former president of the Madras High Court Advocates Association, said: "We paid the compensation as directed by the court and submitted the receipt before the court to bail out my client Vikash."
 
 "It is surprising that Arumugam's family members got a call only last month to get the bank and Aadhaar details of Mysa," said Prabhakaran. 
 
 A police officer at the Adyar traffic investigation wing denied that they contacted Arumugam's relative to get Mysa's bank and Aadhaar details. "The money will be disbursed through the court, why would we approach his family members," he asked.
 
 Meanwhile, F1600 category racer Vikash, who returned to the sport after an 18-month hiatus, recently won two races at the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Racing Championship . The victories also earned him a scholarship in the USA and participation in the   to   
 
