Annie Joy, 62, sheds tears of joy while posing for a picture, holding her first metro ride ticket. “This is like heaven for me. I was born and brought up in Kochi and have seen the growth of this city. But I never thought I would go on such a wonderful trip through the sky before I leave this world,” she says. Annie always wanted to take a ride in the metro but was afraid. However, with the new stretch till Maharaja’s College getting inaugurated on Tuesday morning, she couldn't resist it, and went for it. “I am getting down at Kaloor Church to offer my gratitude to Him. It is a Tuesday and with the usual traffic, it might have taken me more than an hour to reach Kaloor from Padma Junction. But now I am travelling comfortably for just `20,” she says, while clearing her doubts regarding the QR code and tickets with a passenger.

 In its third trip since the inauguration of the new stretch - Palarivattom to Maharajas Ground, the Metro is almost full, with some passengers left standing. Many are engaged in clicking selfies and updating them on social media while checking out the facilities in the metro — from mobile charging point to reserved seats for the elderly.
 
 Income tax officials Suresh Kumar CB and Jojo Scaria, whose office is adjacent to the Maharaja’s College metro station, are as excited as kids as they travel along with four other colleagues. They have been walking across the train from one end to the other, taking videos and enjoying the aerial view. “I am travelling in the Metro for the first time as Palarivattom is too far for me. I had decided that I will travel when the service extends till Maharaja’s. We checked the time; it took hardly 27 minutes for us to reach Aluva. We are taking the next Metro to return to office. It is convenient and economical,” says Jojo. Echoing his views, Suresh says he will opt only for the Metro hereafter.
 
 As she tries to spot her friend’s house in Kaloor through the window, Class 3 student Fahima Kabir animatedly tells her father, “Vapachi... We should always travel in the Metro hereafter. It is so beautiful.” Ask her what she liked best and she says, “The top view of the green trees, the mall and the stadium.” Her father adds, “From morning she has been all excited about the Metro and so I thought of taking her for a joyride.” With a child-like smile he confesses, “Even I wanted to go for one.”
 
 Newbies in the city are equally fascinated to travel by the latest commutation service. Vipul Sahbu and his mom Alka from Punjab had to stay in Aluva on Monday as their delayed flight landed in Kochi only by midnight. When Vipul checked for transport services, he came across the Metro. However, he was unaware of the fact that he and his mom were part of history and were part of the first-day ride. He goes effusive while comparing it with the Delhi Metro. “It is so clean and the passengers maintain etiquette and dignity. I loved the colour combination and the facilities provided. I found that taxi charges come to nearly `400. And here we are, in an air-conditioned coach, travelling from Aluva to Kochi in just half an hour for `50,” he exclaims.
 
 In the afternoon too, the stations fill up with people, happiness written on their faces. “It’s truly a hope train for us. Goodbye to the endless arguments with auto drivers, the chaos, the traffic blocks, the soaring heat and surge prices,” says Devika Raj, an office-goer from Aluva.
 
