GURUGRAM: A 49-year-old resident of  , a condominium in upscale   in Sector 50, was badly beaten up by 10 to 15 people after a “pervert” he chased down to a nearby market place misled them. 

 The accused had been allegedly performing obscene acts in front of the society’s children. The victim, Vivek Bali, has been hospitalised with vertebral fractures.
 
 The incident took place on Thursday night. Around 8 pm, when two girls, aged 10 and 13, were going down to the play area situated in the basement of Close North, they saw the accused standing there trying to flash lights on his private parts and do some obscene acts. 
 
 The girls ran out and told Bali what they had just witnessed. Bali came out and saw the man zipping his pants back on.
 
 Bali told cops he caught the accused and took him to the security control room of the complex, and asked the guards to keep a watch on him while he dialled the police control room. 
 
 However, the man, who is believed to be a driver, managed to flee.
 
 Bali, who had already informed another resident, Major Ajay Randhawa (retired), ran after him along with a few security guards. 
 
 On reaching the business zone, a market located outside the complex, the accused told some drivers and other people who were sitting there that Bali had been trying to attack him, police said.
 
 An argument followed. By the time, Randhawa had also reached the spot. 
 
 When the other people were told by Bali and Randhawa about the obscenity incident, they allegedly did not believe them and started beating them up. While Randhawa managed to ran away, Bali was caught by the mob and thrashed.
 
 Cops said they have identified the accused as Pradeep, a resident of Tigra village, who is currently on the run. Pradeep, aged around 25 years, did not work in Close North, but visited it often as one of his cousins work there.
 
 An FIR has been lodged at Sadar police station against the accused under Section 12 of   Act (  of child) and under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC. 
 
 “We have verified the sexual harassment complaints and have registered the FIR. We will also investigate the role of others who were also involved in violence against Bali,” said Vijay Kumar, SHO of Sadar police station. 
 
 Residents say they are concerned over the security situation within and outside Nirvana Country. Sanu Kapila, the president of the Nirvana RWA, told TOI, “Whad a meeting with the ACP and DCP four months back and offered to donate a PCR van for patrolling in the area, if the police were facing a resource crunch, but not much was done in this regard either.”
 
 
