Nagpur: In a warning to hundreds of colleges offering   and MEd courses, the Nagpur University (NU) made a statement that it would be discontinue affiliation of those who weren’t following National Council For Teachers Education’s (NCTE) norms.

 It further informed the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday that it would later send a report on action taken against such erring colleges.
 
 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Rohit Deo then directed the university to submit an affidavit in this regard within a week.
 
 The directives came while hearing a PIL filed by four BEd teachers through counsel Bhanudas Kulkarni praying for closure of colleges operating without teachers and infrastructure. They strongly contended that a majority of over 100 BEd, MEd and DEd colleges under NU were operating without full-time teachers, and 38 of them don’t even have a single one.
 
 Citing NCTE’s stringent norms, Sandhya Makde, Ravindra Bhende, Manjushree Ghotekar and Archana Aloni pointed out that there should be eight teachers for every batch of 100 students for BEd colleges. Similarly, there should be five teachers behind 25 students for  .
 
 During one of the hearings, NU made a startling disclosure on affidavit that about 90% of over 100 BEd, MEd and DEd colleges are operating without following norms laid by NCTE. It added that the biggest problem with these colleges is that majority of them were conducting courses without regular teachers, while some of them are operating without a single one.
 
 NU stressed on need to fill up all vacant posts of teachers as per NTCE norms, but expressed concern over shortage of NET/SET qualified teachers that leads to huge vacancy.
 
 The university also mentioned its July 24, 2014, notification that had made mandatory for the colleges over five years old to appoint at least 50% regular teachers. For those below five years, only one regular teacher was need to be appointed.
 
 NU warned of disaffiliating those which failed to adhere to this notification that was issued in the aftermath of huge controversy over ‘250 banned colleges’ operating without a single teacher or infrastructure. Some of these BEd and MEd colleges were part of these banned colleges which brought disgrace to the entire institution and forced then vice chancellor Vilas Sapkal to resign.
 
 The petitioners argued that over 50% of education faculty colleges are operating with just one or two teachers and all these factors are adversely affecting the quality of education and also bringing bad name to the noble sector.
 
 Despite NCTE’s norms being brazenly flouted, no action is taken against such erring colleges till date by NU as majority of them belonged to local politicians or influential persons.
 
 The petitioners added that they are working in colleges which strictly adhere to NCTE’s norms, still they are not getting full admissions, whereas those operating without a single teacher are getting full quota of students. They prayed for prohibiting such erring colleges from admitting students.
 
 
