PUNE: Sneha Dadhibal Singh from Cygnet Public Middle School, Pune, has emerged the city champion of Classmate Spell Bee Season 9.

 This week, the online semi-finals of Classmate Spell Bee Season 9, India’s largest spelling competition, were conducted for Pune. Classmate and Radio Mirchi 98.3 FM launched season 9 of Classmate Spell Bee three months back. Classmate, India’s No.1 Notebook Brand by ITC, believes that each child is unique. Inspired by this belief, the theme for this year ‘Every child is unique and so is every word’ has been built around Classmate’s brand philosophy of celebrating uniqueness.
 
 This year, some of the most talented spellers participated in the third level of the competition in an online test and Sneha Dadhibal Singh from Cygent Public Middle school, Pune, emerged the winner. Sneha will now be in contention to compete in the national finals of the competition. However, a city winner does not automatically qualify for the national finals. Only 16 students with the top 16 scores across India qualify (purely on a score merit).
 
 The initial round of the competition received an outstanding response. Pune is one of the 30 cities where the semi-finals were conducted. In the initial phase, an on-ground exercise was conducted across 45 schools in Pune where children were given spelling tests. Top 15 scorers from each school then competed in the city finals round. The top performers from the city finals then competed in the semi-final stage of the competition.
 
 The culmination of Classmate Spell Bee Season 9 will see a gruelling competition between the top 16 scorers of India to win the title of Classmate Spell Bee Season 9’s National Champion. The top 16 participants of the competition will compete in the National Finals of the competition to be telecast on national television on Discovery Channel,   and Discovery Tamil.
 
 Commenting on the event, Shailendra Tyagi, chief executive, ITC’s Education and Stationery Products Business, said, “Classmate Spell Bee season 9 builds on the scale we achieved last year with the aim of reaching out to an even larger number of students across schools and cities in India, through a school contact programme coupled with a novel mobile app and a dedicated website to engage students.”
 
 Sumit Aggarwal, senior vice-president and national head Activations, Entertainment Network (India) Limited, said, “Spell Bee has grown beyond being a just a competition for school children and today it is proud to celebrate its ninth season with its makers – the children themselves. The next few stages of the competition, including the televised National Finals, promise to be extremely exciting as we will see only the best students from Indian schools going head to head”.
 
 Abhishek Anand, marketing manager, Classmate, and the marketing team at ITC’s ESPB have customised this multi-layered engagement platform to drive student outreach and participation. Season 9 saw Classmate Spell Bee actively engaged with its consumers through a dedicated website. Specialised content was created for students through learning modules, tests, interactive blogs and contests. The focus this year is to create a holistic educative experience for participants using a versatile mobile app and web-based learning and practice solutions.
 
 The National Champion of Classmate Spell Bee Season 9 will win a grand prize of Rs 2 Lakh apart from the opportunity to witness the prestigious Scripps National Spelling Bee with a parent in Washington DC, the US, in an all-expense paid trip. The four semi-finalists will win a cash prize of Rs 50,000 each. The grand prize for the winner of Classmate Spell Bee Season 9 and those for the semi-finalists have been specifically designed and sponsored by Classmate to help encourage and enable students to follow their hearts true calling.
 
 The competition this year is powered by The Times of India. Times NIE is the education partner, Discovery Kids is the television partner and Victor Tango is the event partner for the property.
 
