In a house break-in incident which took place in Nagamalai Pudukottai police station limits, the house belonging to one K Alexander, 50, was found burgled. Jewellery and cash worth Rs 1.10 lakh were looted. The matter came to light when the house owner who was away at a relative’s place in Tirunelveli returned on Monday. A case was registered and investigation was carried out by the NP Kottai police station. 

 Frequent house break-ins reported in the Madurai district police limit have been keeping the police on their toes. Apart from the NP Kottai incident, eight more incidents were reported in a span of just 10 days between July 12 and 22. Going by data, the total number of burglaries that took place till June this year was just 75, or roughly 12 burglaries a month.
 
 Even though city police have witnessed frequent house break-ins in recent months, such incidents are not the norm in Madurai district police limits. Not many burglary cases were reported from the rural police unit during the recent vacation time. This despite the fact that there are more than twice the number of police stations in rural limits than the city police. 
 
 The sudden series of burglaries has rattled the police. The only relief was the fact that apart from one incident, none of the others was a bigger burglary. In all eight incidents reported, the total worth of articles lost was less than Rs 2 lakh. 
 
 A couple of incidents were reported in NP Kottai and Silaiman police limits in between. Apart from that, single incidents were reported from Usilampatti, Kottampatti, Tirumangalam Town, Melur, Alananallur and Silaiman police stations.
 
 A police inspector said that mostly the houses found locked for consecutive days are generally targeted. Although police keep on insisting that the residents inform the local police stations before moving out of the district on vacation or on emergency travel, rarely is it followed. In such cases, police would plan their rounds in such a way that they reached there once, which will deter the criminals in the locality. 
 
 When contacted, superintendent of police N Manivannan said that going by the data the number of house break-ins was not higher in the district now. 
 
 
