Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday observed that the land belonging to Gwal Pahari village in Gurgaon is shamlat and asked the state to make all endeavour to restore it with the municipal corporation Gurgaon (MCG). The civic body was entrusted with the land in 2010 from village panchayat.

 “Everyone is in loot of shamlat land. Admittedly, the land belongs to shamlat land (category). Even proceedings under Section 408 of the municipal act need to be initiated by the authorities to remove encroachment from the land and high court would monitor it,” the court observed. 
 
 These oral observations from the HC came during the resumed hearing of a plea seeking CBI probe into the alleged irregularities in the ownership of 464-acre worth around Rs 3,000 crore of Gwal Pahari area of Gurgaon.
 
 The HC division bench headed by Justice S S Saron also directed the Haryana government to furnish an affidavit to inform how much land is under illegal occupation and the steps taken by the state to restore it back to the MCG.
 
 During the hearing of the case, the state government counsel told the HC that MCG had take possession of around 164 acre   and around 300 notices issued to those in illegal possession of land. The counsel added that 139 cases were pending before different courts, in some of which stay has also been granted.
 
 During the hearing of the case, a team of revenue officials of Gurgaon headed by district revenue officer Hariom Atri was also present in the court along with the entire record pertaining to mutation No. 610 comprising 3,717 kanal 1 marla (around 464 acre), which is under dispute.
 
 After going through the land record, the court advised the state authorities to go with the legal provisions rather than making the matter more complicated by initiating multiple inquiries. HC was responding to state’s assertions that they are ready to conduct probe into the transfer of ownership of the land.
 
 Meanwhile during the hearing of the case, senior advocate D S Patwalia appeared on behalf of some private parties and submitted that 25% of the land area is not shamlat and around 20 decrees by various courts have been passed in favour of private persons regarding its ownership. He requested the court to give time to file affidavit regarding his contentions, which the court has accepted.
 
 The case would now come up for hearing on May 23.
 
 Mutation No. 3112
 
 The matter has reached before the HC in the wake of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Harinder Dhingra, a resident of Gurgaon seeking directions to hand over the matter to CBI for investigations. The petitioner has sought directions to hand over the investigations in the matter of sanction of mutation No. 3112 in respect of the said land, which earlier vested with Gwal Pahari gram panchayat since 1940-41 and now with MCG, since March 2010.
 
 
