ZIRAKPUR: Residents wonder how they never come to know about the inspection of housing societies but builders never miss it. They see no other explanation but a nexus between   and the municipal council employees.

 “The builders are fully informed by the MC never includes us in inspection,” a resident at the TOI roundtable conference said. “The municipal council has issued completion certificates to many builders, even though much of the work is unfinished.” Interacting with legislator   and MC president Kulwinder Singh Sohi during the interaction session organised by Times of India on Sunday, residents of Zirakpur came down heavily on the two and the working of the MC employees.
 
 Sushma Elite Housing Society president R K Sharma and residents Umesh Thakur, Chandra Kant,  , Ritesh Gupta, and others condemned the MC’s habit of not including the residents in inspection. “But you take along the builder. Residents alone can give you the true picture of the living conditions,” R K Sharma said.
 
 “Mostly the inspection is so secretive that we come to know only when the inspection team is about to leave. Many completion certificates to builders can be questioned,” he said. Ritesh Gupta of Maya Gardens apartments said: “The MC inspections are mere eyewash. They do not include residents to hide the true picture. We need to break this nexus between the MC officials and builders.”
 
 Reacting to the allegations, MC president Kulwinder Sohi said: “I will get this verified and direct the MC employees to inform the RWAs before every inspection and include the views of residents also in the inspection report.” Subhash Ahuja of South City enclave raised the problem of illegal construction and slaughterhouses. He said: “The builders even sell the land under illegal occupation. Illegal meat shops have also come up.”
 
 Sohi tried to wriggle out by saying he will get it checked. “If any completion certificate was issued in contravention of the rules, I will take action,” he said.   of Silver City and Gurpreet Kaur of Badal Colony said the paver tiles fixed in their housing societies are slippery, and often cause two-wheeler to skid. N K Sharma said Badal Colony came up before the MC “but I promise a solution”. 
 
