ALAPPUZHA: The district seems to be moving towards a drought-like situation with wells, ponds and tube wells drying up following a drastic drop in rainfall.

 Alappuzha municipality and surrounding grama panchayats are reeling under an acute shortage of drinking water. “All areas of Alappuzha, especially Kuttanad and coastal areas, are facing acute shortage of water. Wells, ponds and bore wells are now unable to meet the needs of people. The shortage of monsoon made all these water bodies dry,“ said Fr Thomas Peelianickal, executive director, Kuttanad vikasana samithy.
 
 The flow of water in backwaters and canals has been affected because of spread of water weeds and the downing of the shutters of the Than neermukkom bund, he said.“There is also threat of epidemics. Though local bodies and the district administration are supplying drinking water, it's not enough," said Fr Thomas.A senior official with the   said people of Kutiyathodu, Pattanakad, Kadakkarapally, Cherthala South and Mararikkulam South are bearing the brunt of drinking  . The coastal belt in Cherthala is yet to benefit from the Rs 491-crore   funded by   ( ) inaugurated in January, 2012.Under this project only 51,188 water connections could be established within five years in 18 grama panchayats and Cherthala municipality .
 
 “Alappuzha municipality has 22 tube wells for supplying drinking water after reverse osmosis. However, these tube wells cannot be operated due to shortage of groundwater. Unless the Alappuzha drinking water is commissioned in March this year, Alappuzha will witness a severe drought,'' said the KWA officer.
 
 The Alappuzha drinking water project is being implemented with Central assistance under the Urban Infrastructure Development Scheme for Small and Medium Towns (UIDSSMT). The project envisages supply of water from Kadapra in Pathanamthitta after treatment at Karumadi near Ambalapuzha. The water will be supplied to Alappuzha municipality and nine surrounding panchayats of Purackad, Alappuzha South, Alappuzha North, Punnapra South, Punnapra North, Aryad, Mararikulam South, Thakazhi and Mannancherry. 
 
