KOLKATA: By making a clear distinction between the assaulted scribes and protesters, police on Tuesday indicated that senior officers, who had reportedly ordered the assault on media persons, will be relieved of active law and order duties till the departmental probe on whether they exceeded their brief is over. 

 Police also released video grabs of a stone-pelting youth CPM leader and bleeding on-duty cops to counter the protesters' claims of police excesses.
 
 Kolkata Police commissioner Rajeev Kumar, who met a five-member delegation of scribes in the evening, assured them that the promised departmental proceedings have been started. Police will record statements of 15 injured scribes and also the on-duty officers who had reportedly ordered the unprovoked lathicharge. Kumar also indicated that some instigators shielding themselves behind the scribes had triggered the chaos. He also asked the scribes to don a press gear to help cops distinguish them from agitators when caught in such a melee. The CP, however, assured of a complete probe to ascertain facts.
 
 In a series of tweets, Kolkata Police also said how their officers were attacked. While a footage showed how CPM youth leader   was throwing stones at cops, another shows a lady officer falling senseless after being attacked.Ghosh was unavailable for comments. Sixty-nine cops were injured on Monday . “Brutal assault on police in the name of peaceful protest, we are identifying all such criminals and every guilty person will be booked,“ a tweet said. “We have responded only after we were subjected to uncalled for violence,“ Supratim Sarkar, additional CP (III) said.
 
 While DC (STF)  , who was present on  , refused comment, ADCP (south) Aparijita Rai only said she was not aware of social media campaigns against her. Those present with her claimed before their Lalbazar seniors that she had not ordered a lathicharge on the media persons. Rai, who has been posted from Arambagh barely two months back, is handling a number of important cases, including model   accident case.
 
