DOHA: How deep is the serve? Where exactly are you positioned when approaching the net? Why are you being passed on your backhand side? Data analysis is throwing up some compelling answers that's changing not just how players approach matches but also how coaches are doing their jobs.

 It's not all about statistics to be sure, though numbers can tell the tale. While there are a lot of players who swear by data, namely - world No.1   and 12-time Grand Slam champion  , who clashed in Saturday's final at the Qatar ExxonMobil Open - others like Spaniard   rely on experience.
 
 Murray, who took over the top-ranking from the Serb in the ATP Tour's last clash of 2016, said, the key lay in knowing what to use. "You have to know what you're looking for. You can find a lot of stats, a lot of data over many tennis matches, but if you don't know how to use it then it can make things more confusing when you go out on the court."
 
 Murray, who is coached by Czech-born American   and Briton  , said a lot depends on how coaches crunch numbers. "I don't have the time to be doing it myself. It's up to the coaches to kind of produce that stuff. Mine, I feel, do a good job of that." 
 
 Djokovic, whose match preparation can be data driven, said, "It enables you access to certain kinds of perspectives. It tells you about your own game, and the matchup." The world No.2, who has invested in PlaySight, an interactive tennis technology that aids practice and preparation, said data usage varies from player to player. "Everybody is different, some players feel less information is better, because they feel like this overcomplicates things. Then there are others who use a lot of it. I'm somewhere in-between. I like to pick the right things and focus on that."
 
 On the WTA Tour, where on-court coaching has caught on in a big way, coaches can turn to apps for data. "I think that's a positive thing in tennis," Murray said. "There are certain stats that I get my team to look at during my matches, and a lot of it is done live as the match is happening."
 
 The 29-year-old Scot said data was still largely a new feature in tennis. "It's sort of something that's a bit underused in comparison to other sports. A lot of ex-players that are coaching now didn't have that when they were playing, so some of them maybe don't think it's that great or useful."
 
 Spanish veteran Verdasco said data wasn't his thing. "I have been on the tour for 14 years. I know my opponents normally pretty well. I play against them for many times," he said.
 
 "It's a little bit tougher when you play against a player that's maybe new on the tour and you don't know him that well and you never play him. That's the ones that you really have to look at videos to see how he plays."
 
 "Almost all the matches on the Tour are very even," Verdasco said, sidestepping the point that data could give a player an edge in an evenly matched contest. "You have to be focused from the first point to the last point. In the end if you're not like that, you can lose with everybody. I like to watch tennis. Many times when I'm just in my house I put on the TV and I watch tennis. It helps me to see how other players play and study them."
 
