PUNE: Rattled by repeated cases of alleged track sabotages, the Pune division of the   has stepped up its “night foot plate inspection” besides taking other precautions to ensure the safety of train passengers.

 A railway official said, “We are taking all steps to ensure safety of passengers following the spurt in alleged sabotage attempts off late. The night foot plate inspections would be more frequent now. This kind of inspection involves a group of trained railway officials and technicians travelling in an engine with the loco pilot. The team checks all the aspects of security and safety. The night foot plate inspections were carried out earlier too, but it has now been made more frequent.”
 
 The initiative was communicated to the reporters a day after some villagers at Mansi in Khagaria district of Bihar alerted the railway officials about a track sabotage incident just before the   was to pass through the place.
 
 Several things, including the alertness of loco pilots, if they are in close coordination with the ground staff at the station and headquarters, and with the crew of other trains passing them, are critical to avert accidents. “The loco pilot can spot foul play on the rail tracks first if he/she is alert,” the railway official told TOI.
 
 “The patrolling along the track to spot removal of fish plates or a crack in the rail track has been intensified. The railway officials on patrolling duty minutely check the tracks. The supervisions and inspections on the railway tracks has been doubled up,” the official pointed out.
 
 The railway authorities have put additional stress on concrete and effective night patrolling on tracks, too.
 
 “The dangers double up during the night and early morning hours. So, special care is being taken. Instructions have been sent specifically to the teams to communicate with the nearest railway station and the control room immediately if they spot any fault on the tracks. The   personnel, too, have been told to stay on alert and patrol trains to look out for suspicious things,” the official said.
 
 Escalator out of order 
 
 Passengers are peeved with the defunct escalator on the Pune station premises despite it being among the 23 stations selected for the Indian Railway’s station redevelopment scheme.
 
 “It has been a week since the escalator is not working. People with luggage, especially senior citizens and women, are facing a lot of problems. Issues like these should be addressed without any delay. But it is a week now and nothing has been done,”  , a regular passenger, told TOI.
 
 When contacted, a railway official said the escalator had developed a snag and a team had gone to Kolkata to bring some parts to fix it. “We expect the escalator to be functional soon,” the official said.
 
