We told you earlier that model and reality show star   was in Jaipur to shoot for a magazine cover and that   was also part of it. While the shoot was strictly guarded, we finally caught a glimpse of Kendall at the   on Friday evening, when she was leaving the city. When she spotted photographers at the airport, she tried to hide her face with her jersey, but we did manage to get a picture of the surprised model.

  After spending two days in Jaipur for the shoot of a magazine cover, Kendall Jenner flew to Delhi by a chartered flight on Friday evening. According to sources, the reality TV star and international photographer   were at Samode Palace for an elaborate shoot for a fashion magazine, in which   Rajput also makes an appearance. While the shoot was strictly guarded, we spotted both Jenner and Sushant at the Jaipur airport, leaving for different destinations. Sushant left for Mumbai in the afternoon.
 
  
  Kendall Jenner (R) enters Jaipur airport
 
 
  
 Kendall was accompanied by her manager and staff who tried their best to ensure that she wasn't clicked by anyone. Dressed in a sweatshirt and black jeggings, she looked a little hassled when she saw a few photographers at the airport. She waited in the car while her staff got her documents checked at the entrance, and covered her face with a jacket as she stepped out. The security staff at the airport, sensing that there was a celebrity around, got inquisitive. Pushpa Jat from the CISF, who was at the entrance gate, told us, 'Humein toh laga itni badi celebrity hain shayad, isiliye shakal nahi dikha rahi hain. Jab tak baahar thi toh muh dhak kar rakha tha. Phir andar aake hata diya. Humein toh sirf identity proof aur ticket dekhna hota hai. Aur unki toh chartered flight hai Delhi ke liye.'
 
  
  Sushant Singh Rajput
 
 
  
 While Kendall had brought her own security to dodge the cameras, Sushant had come to the airport with SHO Shankar Sharma and a few other policemen. The actor was recently in the news for temporarily dropping his surname as a mark of protest against   members who had attacked   and vandalized the sets of 'Padmavati' in Jaipur. Shankar Sharma said, 'We were on regular patrolling outside the airport area and got a request to accompany the actor till the departure area. There is no reason as such.' But if sources to be believed, Sushant, who was apprehensive about protests against him by the Rajput community for dropping his surname, had asked for police security.
 
 
