After a two-year delay, a mandatory marketing code for the pharmaceutical industry to stop the bribing of doctors and health professionals may soon come into force. The pharmaceuticals department (DoP) earlier this week sent the draft Essential Commodities (Control of  ) Order 2017 to the law ministry for final clearance. 

 "Since the draft has already been vetted by the law ministry earlier in the process, we anticipate this won't take time," a senior DoP official told TOI. 
 
 Asked whether the usual 45-day period of the draft being put in the public domain for comments would be waived, the official said, "In this case, all stakeholders have already been consulted extensively, so that may not be needed". The draft specifies July 1 as the date for the order to come into force, a deadline already missed.
 
 In response to Indian   asking to be brought under the   Practices (UCPMP), the DoP had issued a notification in March 2015 extending the UCPMP to cover medical devices. But the newly proposed order states that it will not apply to medical devices, an industry worth over Rs 25,000 crore per year. This is because a separate code is being drafted for the medical device industry. That code will be voluntary for six months though the government admits that voluntary codes do not work.
 
 The draft order on controlling unethical marketing practices in pharma prohibits companies from offering cash, gifts and sponsorship or providing travel facility or paid vacations for doctors, chemists and pharmacists. However, it allows the sponsorship of academic conferences organised by medical associations and screening camps or awareness campaigns to be organised in government-owned healthcare facilities, while stipulating that these cannot be used as surrogate advertising. 
 
  All complaints regarding violations are to be looked into by "an officer not below the rank of joint secretary" appointed by the government as the ethics compliance officer. However, it is not clear whether the pharma company itself or its agent would be held liable for violations. Where a company is found liable, the penalty extends from suspension of marketing for a period of three months to one year depending on the seriousness of the violation. 
 
  Suspension of marketing would apply to the brand of drug of the violating company with the "highest moving annual turnover for the preceding 12 months" or the highest selling brand of the company. Or, the companies could apply to commute the marketing suspension by paying a penalty ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. The appellate authority will be the DoP secretary, after which the company could go to court. 
 
  Experts TOI spoke to pointed out that giving companies the option of paying their way out of a marketing suspension could convert the penalty system into just another cost of doing business. This could dent the deterrence value of the regulation. 
 
 
