VISAKHAPATNAM: The state’s first multi modal logistics park (MMLP) being promoted by   (Concor) started its operations here on Saturday.

 The Union government had committed Rs 500 crore to set up an MMLP in the port city after bifurcation to enhance the container cargo handling capacity.
 
 Situated close to   along the national highway, the MMLP was inaugurated by East Coast Railway’s Waltair divisional railway manager Chandralekha Mukherjee on Saturday. 
 
 The DRM said the railways would extend all support to the MMLP for hassle-free movement of containers on railway lines to various destinations across the country from here.
 
 “Two container cargo trains were operated on a trial basis in the past three weeks. Now, a train carrying empty containers has successfully left for Vedanta Alumina plant at Brundamal in Odisha from the MMLP here on Saturday. The railways is committed to promoting container traffic. I urge the industries to use the railways from the MMLP to reduce their logistics and inventory costs,” Chandralekha Mukherjee said.
 
 “Also, travelling by rail is six times energy efficient and two to three times economical than road transport,” Chandralekha Mukherjee said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, MM  , general manager (engineering) of Concor and head of the MMLP Visakhapatnam, said Concor earlier used the Vizag Port and Visakha Container Terminal Pvt Ltd with their available warehouse space of nearly 20,000 square feet. Now, Concor has developed the MMLP on 105 acres of land for Rs 500 crore. 
 
 “We have so far invested Rs 300 crore to develop the MMLP and we will invest the balance Rs 200 crore in the next phase. We have so far built a container freight station and a warehouse with 50,000 square feet space. We are planning to handle 50 to 60 rakes (trains) in a month to various parts of the country from here. It will be of great use to the small, medium and large scale industrial units in the city and its neighbouring districts,” Yadav said. The administrative office of Concor is currently located near the   close to Vizag Port and it will be shifted to the MMLP soon, Yadav said.
 
