CHENNAI: The city is expected to receive more rains in the coming days as the   has   that "rain or   are likely to occur in some areas." The minimum temperature is expected to be 25 degree celsius on Monday. In the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, the city received 1cm to 3cm while suburbs received 5cm.

 In Chennai,   received 25.3mm rainfall from 8.30am on Saturday till 8.30 am on Sunday. The city received heavy rain between 3.30 am and 5 am on Sunday, met officials said.
 
 After the rains on Saturday night, several areas in the city saw flooding much to the chagrin of residents who say that no lessons were learnt from the 2015 floods or 2016’s Vardah.
 
 Part of the six-lane   in Sathiyamoorthi Nagar in Thiruvottriyur was heavily waterlogged till 11am on Sunday morning.
 
 An irked resident V Kannadasan said recent digging work carried out by Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited for laying pipelines had worsened the condition of the road and no care was taken to warn commuters and pedestrians of the work being undertaken.
 
 "It is an important road that connects this area to Koyambedu, North Madras, Padi and with such light rain, it was badly flooded. Being Sunday, there were not many users on the road else given the potholes and bad maintenance, mishaps were likely to have occurred," he said.
 
 Several areas of the city like Meenambakkam,  , Mahalingapuram and Kolathur were badly flooded after the rain last night.
 
 In Chennai airport, two flights were diverted and 14 flights, including nine international flights, delayed due to heavy rain and poor visibility in the early hours of Sunday.
 
 The rain also led to four arrivals and 10 departures being delayed from half an hour to two hours. The scheduled arrivals between 2 am and 3.50 am and scheduled departures between 1 am and 6.45 am were delayed.
 
 Airport sources said a British Airways flight from London and an Etihad Airways flight from Abu Dhabi, scheduled to arrive around 3.50am, were diverted to Hyderabad.
 
