LONDON:  ' top guns ­   and   ­ blew hot and cold on the US Open's move to test coaching from the stands in the qualifying competition of the last major of the year.

 The on-court coaching innovation -mooted with the other majors, including the   -will allow players to speak to their coaches when on the same side and use sign language when at the far end. A 25-second timer be used to cap time between points.
 
 The rule change is another move in the ongoing bid to reach out to younger fans. Federer, 35, said he had heard of the game's newest experiment only vaguely. “I'm not all for it. I find it cool that in tennis you're sort of on your own out there,” the 18-time major winner said, before pointing out, “Not everybody has the same amount of resources for coaching. So, I'm not sure if it's that beneficial.”
 
 Federer, soon-to-be 36, said that while on-court coaching might spice things up for the paying spectator, it's hardly new in tennis where communication between player and coach is as old as the travelling guru. “I know that in some parts of the world coaching at junior level is totally normal, coaches and players speak,” Federer said. “I'm sure it's not going to make that much of a difference because there's hand signs going on as we speak. It's not rocket science out there. We tell maybe `play more to the backhand side'. It doesn't take much to understand that message.”
 
 He said that while he didn't favour on-court coaching it made sense to legalize it because too many players had `gone over the limit' already.
 
 Djokovic, electric on the court, who doesn't waste time between points, said the new rule was worth a try, but it was imperative that umpires kept an eye on the clock.
 
 “It has to be within acceptable time,” Djokovic said. “The server dictates time between points. It's on the chair umpire basically to judge whether it's too long or too short. Around seven-to-ten seconds is an acceptable average to have between points.”
 
 Djokovic added, “when you have your player on your side, it's fine. As long as it's within that time limit, respecting the other player, the rhythm of the server.“
 
 He, however, wasn't quite convinced about how sign language would work when the player was at the far end.
 
 The WTA introduced on-court coaching in 2009. “Many   players were not really positive about it at that time. I thought it was a good move for the sport,” Djokovic said. “In certain situations it can disrupt the flow of opponent. But in general if you have a coach, why not try to use him during the match itself? We're probably one of the only, maybe only global sport, that doesn't use coaching during play. Even in golf, an individual sport, you have caddies communicating with players on the course.”
 
 
