AHMEDABAD: Investigations into allegations of   and   against a Rajkot-based   have taken a new turn, with   high court directing police to verify an audio recording of alleged extortion calls made by the woman.

    ordered so after the accused, 75-year-old Anantprasad Bhatt, placed transcripts of a telephonic conversation with the 33-year-old woman, who accused him of ravishing her over the last eight years, on the pretext of curing her son’s ailments.
 
 This came after Bhatt moved the HC to quash the FIR and claimed that the allegations were baseless and the relationship was with mutual consent. He supplied transcripts of his conversation with the woman, in which the alleged victim demanded Rs 1 crore to settle the dispute. Bhatt’s advocates also highlighted that allegations of him blackmailing the woman were false, because if the victim’s claim in the FIR is to be believed, she had visuals of their intimate moments since 2009. The woman could have filed the complaint much earlier.
 
 After hearing the case, the judge said, “If I go by what has been stated in the FIR, then the victim should be in possession of the CD. So far as the telephonic conversation is concerned, the CD is in possession of the applicant herein (Bhatt). If I accept or believe as true what has been stated in the transcript i.e. the telephonic conversation between the applicant and the victim, then the submission of the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the applicant gets fortified.”
 
 The HC ordered the investigating officer to collect a CD containing audio recording of the conversations and have its genuineness verified by sending it to the FSL and to get voice spectrography of the parties involved done. The HC also asked the IO to trace the CD, on basis of which the astrologer was allegedly blackmailing her.
 
 The HC, however, refused to quash the FIR on the grounds that the investigation is at a nascent stage and if the accused person’s claims prove to be true, the picture would become abundantly clear.
 
