HYDERABAD: Dragged out of her bedroom by police and society members without a knock on the door in a gated colony in Kukatpally for supposedly possessing ganja, IBM engineer   is in acute trauma. It was just not the ignominy of police questioning, but also the defamation of her pictures going viral on Internet and branded a druggie that has rubbed salt in wounds of the 22-year-old. Ekta Negi has been accused of possessing 20gm weed, which was kept in a corner of the dining table of her flat, which she shares with two others. 

 The IBM engineer said she had nothing to do with ganja seized from her flat at Malaysian Township on July 21. The techie, who came to TOI office on Thursday explained how the 'Gestapo' mentality of members of Malaysian Township residential association and the 'name and shame' pogrom of city police was ruining lives of young professionals even as the narcotics mafia in the state remained untouched.
 
 On July 21, KPHB police arrested Ekta, resident of flat number 103, block number 17, Malaysian Township, along with her flat mate, Gopi Sadhana, and seized 20gm of ganja from their flat. Based on the confession of Ekta, police also raided flat number 304, block number 27 of Malaysian Township and arrested Sadhna's friends, M Nithin Sai, D Uday and Abhilash M, in possession of 40 grams of ganja.
 
 Talking to TOI, Ekta said she barely knew her flatmate, Sadhana, who moved into the flat three weeks ago. "I came in contact with her through a Facebook group, Flats and Flatmates, when she was looking to share a room," said Ekta.
 
 Police mentioned in the FIR, a copy of which Ekta is yet to receive, that the women procured ganja from an unknown peddler whose number she secured from a friend, Basheer. The three men arrested have procured ganja from their friend, Robin, the FIR stated. Both Basheer and Robin are also named accused. However, Ekta said since past one-and-half months she has been using a friend's SIM card as she lost her card.
 
 Talking to TOI, Ekta said it was not police, but members of Malaysian Township Residential Association who barged into her bedroom at 3.30pm when she was in deep sleep after night shift. "Women association members entered my room and dragged me out. I also saw my flatmate and three men, who are her friends in the hall. Among scattered items on the table in the shared hall, the women pointed to a small box and forced us to open it. And there was ganja in it. Then police were called and they took me and my flatmate to   at 4.30pm," said Ekta.
 
 According to Ekta, after she reached the police station, police seized their phones and did not allow them to call family members. "They took my photograph, saying it won't be circulated. The next day, I saw them online in news portals everywhere. How can they do that? Also, there was a virulent anti-North Indian bias among police, who accused me of procuring drugs from my native Uttarakhand," said Ekta.
 
 ''Police also forced me to sign on a paper, which was in Telugu text, which I could not read. All I could read was my name, address and work details written in English. Rest of the content was in Telugu and they hurried me to sign on it. With no one to consult and desperate to leave the police station, I signed on it and only then I was let off," said Ekta. 
 
 KPHB inspector Ch Kushalkar, who is also the complainant in suo motu case, told TOI that the raid was carried out in the presence of eye-witnesses after receiving a confidential information from society members. Documents furnished before the 19 Metropolitan Magistrate Court of Kukatpally by police state the raid was carried out by them in presence of tehsildar Kukatpally and two official 'panchas'. 
 
 "Ekta gave her statement orally in Hindi and the same was written in Telugu by our police team. Entire process had been done in presence of witnesses," the inspector said.
 
 While police alleged the accused, including Ekta have confessed to purchase and consumption of ganja, Ekta clearly said she had never procured or consumed the drug.
 
 Police said photographs of all accused were shared with media as it is done with every case. "Unless accused is a minor or the victim of a sexual crime, we do share details with media. This is a NDPS Act case and the accused are not minors. We have also not singled out any one of the accused," the inspector said.
 
