MUMBAI: 108, the popular free ambulance-on-call service that claims to have changed the way emergencies are handled, has run into rough weather again.

 Three years after its launch, questions are being raised about the terms of the contract. Additionally, the state finance department is growing uncomfortable with its high operational cost—it pays Rs 245 crore to the contractor of the service annually.
 
 Acting on a detailed anonymous complaint received by the chief minister’s office last August, a fresh inquiry is likely to be ordered into the clauses of the contract that was awarded to   (BVG) India Ltd during the Congress-NCP regime in 2014. TOI has learned that senior bureaucrats are also considering a CAG audit.
 
 “We have received a complaint about the contract clauses for the 108 ambulance scheme. We are investigating the complaint and re-looking at the tender conditions,” confirmed additional chief secretary Vijay Satbir Singh.
 
 The 108 service, touted as the world’s largest, was started as part of the   under the National Health Mission. 
 
  BVG provided 937 ambulances, of which 233 are equipped with advanced life-support (ALS) systems. BVG claims to have attended to over 14 lakh emergency cases and carried out nearly 14,000 child deliveries inside the ambulances since 2014. 
 
 Senior officials claimed the contract is riddled with flaws. “BVG didn’t consult AIIMS in Delhi while purchasing the ambulances, despite it being one of the main conditions. The letter to the CMO claimed that the ambulances were purchased at a higher cost,” said a senior official, adding that the letter was forwarded to the public health department for action. “The contract was awarded to the company despite it being the sole bidder. It’s also one of the most expensive deals in the country.”
 
 Incidentally, the issue of tendering had reached the Supreme Court after a rival company had alleged that BVG had bagged the bid using forged documents. A court order then had paved the way for the service provider to be finalized.
 
 In the contract agreement, it was decided that the contractor would be given Rs 2.15 lakh per month for each ALS ambulance and Rs 1.95 lakh for a basic life support ambulance. On an average, 2,000km per month is covered under these charges. If an ambulance is used for over 2,000 km/month, an additional Rs 6 per km is applicable. The operation cost too is revised annually by 8%.
 
 A senior official said the letter also pointed out that like Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat have executed a similar scheme at a much cheaper rate.
 
 Dr Satish Pawar, head of Directorate of Health Services, said the department has been asked to look into ways to bring down the operational cost. “The payment scheme was supposed to be 60:40, with the Centre paying the bigger share. But somehow the state has been bearing the entire cost,” he added.
 
 A Mantralaya source confirmed that the state has received only Rs 15 crore from the Centre in the last one year.
 
 While the complaint letter stated that the cost per ambulance was exceptionally high, Pawar explained that the salaries of doctors and paramedics, cost of medicines, consumables and logistics of running a call centre are factored into the operational cost of every ambulance. “This could be why they appear to be higher than other states,” he said.
 
 He added that Maharashtra is the only state to employ doctors, though it is under discussion whether they can be replaced by technicians in basic life support ambulances.
 
 Redistribution of ambulances is also on the cards as the utility is suboptimal in cities like Mumbai, where the largest number of ambulances is parked.
 
 
