BENGALURU: The Karnataka government on Thursday scrapped the 
   . Bengaluru development minister   announced the cancellation of the 
  , that has been mired in controversy from the day it was conceived.

 The move comes amidst 
  to the Congress high command and chief minister  's family. 
 
 Briefing reporters, KJ George said, "We have cancelled the project as we have been forced to prove our sincerity. There are corruption charges being levelled against us when not a single rupee has been taken as kickback by us."
 
 "We do not want to take the blame for something that we have not done, so we are dropping the project. The steel bridge project had become a pain point for us as the media has been speaking on a daily-basis about corruption in it," he said.
 
 Several Congress legislators including Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president Dinesh Gundu Rao had mounted pressure on Bengaluru in-charge minister to drop the controversial steel bridge project as it was tarnishing the image of the government.
 
 "The proposed steel bridge is being portrayed as a monument of Congress corruption by the opposition parties. Why should we take the blame when our intention is to improve Bengaluru?" Dinesh Gundu Rao said.
 
 Joining him, Shantinagar MLA NA Haris said, "We are tired of explaining to the people about the project. A decision should be taken on the project before more damage is caused to the party." 
 
 MLAs C Muniratna and Somashekar had also asked the government to put an end to the steel project by cancelling it.
 
 The 6.9-km steel flyover was to connect Basaveshwara Circle to Hebbal with an extension on Sankey Road up to LRDE complex. 
 
 The Rs 2100 crore project was going to be implemented by BDA to decongest Ballari road leading to Kempegowda International Airport. The detailed project report showed the flyover starts from near Maharani's college on Palace road till the expressway near Kempapura junction beyond Hebbal interchange. 
 
 The project drew flak from citizens and green activists as it required axing of trees and was also termed as an unsustainable solution to reduce city's traffic woes.
 
 The bridge to be built through the greenest parts of the city would have required cutting of 812 trees.
 
 The proposed steel bridge has been mired in controversy from the time it was mentioned in the 2013 budget, which was Siddaramaiah's first budget as the chief minister.
 
 The latest controversy surrounding the bridge was the DonationGate scandal, in which a diary entry said Rs 65 crore was received for awarding the contract for the steel bridge.
  
 The project cost of the steel flyover was pegged initially at Rs 1,130 crore. A couple of months later, BDA floated a tender and the project cost had become Rs 1,350 crore. Finally , when the tender was awarded to L&T and  , the project cost had touched Rs 1,791 crore.
 
 Citizens formed massive human chain along the proposed route in October 2016, but the  , especially Bengaluru development minister KJ George, dug in its heels and said it would persist with the project.
 
