TRICHY: In the wake of the explosion of a   of a   killing one person and injuring three people at a scrap unit in   in June this year, a special team from Pune will search for misfired shells and defuse them at the shooting range in   near Manapparai on Friday. 

 Citing the one-day drive, the district administration has asked the people not to cross the shooting range on the day. 
 
 “A special team will conduct a search from 9 am to 5 pm on September 29 for the live shells misfired by the personnel of the para-military forces during the training in the range. The identified shells will be defused by the team,” said district collector   in a statement. 
 
 Sources said that the ‘demolition’ team of experts from Pune will take up the task. Since the process involved some risk, the residents have been asked not to visit the place on Friday. 
 
 The drive was necessitated following the blast of a live shell at a scrap shop in Manapparai on June 29. Mariappan, 50 from   was killed after a shell made of brass injured him when he tried to break it by using a sledgehammer at the scrap shop. 
 
 The accident left the owner of the scrap godown Arulanandam, 47 from Pothamettupatti, Kanagaraj, 43 from the same area and a worker at a puncture shop, Balasubramanian, 17 from Nallampillai injured. 
 
 The accident happened following the training conducted by Bangalore 2 Para (SF) from June 24 to June 27. The police and para-military forces had carried out investigations to check the involvement of the para-military personnel in selling spent shells to scrap merchants. Investigations revealed that residents in the area had a practice of collecting the misfired shells and selling them to the scrap shop. 
 
 To their shock, some of the personnel also collected and sold them. The search conducted earlier by the police and para-military police unearthed several spent bullets from the spot. 
 
 The special team will carry out the drive on Friday in order to completely sanitise the area. 
 
 District collector Rajamani had also convened a meeting attended by police officials recently and instructed the para-military personnel to remove all the shells from the range soon after training. 
 
 Henceforth, the personnel have also been asked to submit the data of fired and unfired shells during their training.
 
