Nagpur: Taking cognizance of allegations of massive irregularities in the purchase of furniture in Nagpur Zilla Parishad, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has ordered an enquiry into the issue. The court directed ZP chief executive officer (CEO) to enquire and prepare proper report in three months. “If the authorities are not satisfied with compliance, they have the power to proceed further under Bombay Local Fund Audit Act, 1930. In this situation, as we find that a case for an enquiry is made out, we initially direct CEO to look into the matter and prepare a proper report,” a division bench of Justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Arun Upadhye said before disposing of the plea. While asking the CEO to supply copy of report to petitioner Mohan Karemore before March 31 next year, the judges granted liberty to latter to re-approach the court in case the directives were not complied with. In a previous hearing, the petitioner was told to deposit a fine of Rs50,000 by the court to prove his bona fides as neither his counsel nor him appeared for several hearings. He deposited Rs20,000 and requested the court to grant him time to engage a new lawyer. While disposing of the petition, the court told registry to refund Karemore’s amount. Citing audit objections of 2014-15 obtained under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, the petitioner claimed the work was sub-divided and awarded to different contractors, while three offers were procured from from unauthorized suppliers. The court noted that since objections were raised in the audit report, the concerned office bearers of Zilla Parishad were supposed to submit appropriate reply to it. The petitioner made state rural development department secretary, Public Works Department (PWD) principal secretary and executive engineer, besides ZP CEO as respondents in the PIL, while seeking a thorough probe into alleged irregularities in furniture purchase. Earlier, appearing for PWD engineer and ZP CEO, counsel Manoj Sable sought time for placing on record objections raised in audit report but the court declined and disposed of the case.