NAGPUR: The importance of reading on sevens senses of body was the hallmark of ‘Katha Mehfil,’ a programme of  , organized at Vinoba Vichar Kendra,  , on Sunday.

 The event, organized as part of the 40th Foundation Day celebrations of Abhivyakti Vaidarbhiya Lekhika Sanstha, took the listeners to a level in which they related themselves to the stories and went down memory lane. 
 
 Anjali Durugkar and Shraddha Bharadwaj, announcers at  , narrated the stories of writers who have a place of respect in the hearts of readers. Before reading stories, Bharadwaj said, “Nowadays, women are hooked to serials. In doing so, only eyes work while the mind does not function to its optimum level. On the contrary, when we read a book, our eyes, mind, heart and every sense develop the feeling of attachment.”
 
 Bharadwaj narrated “Kitaabein jhankti hain band almari ke sheesho se, bhari hasrat se takti hain maheenon, ab mulaqaatain nahi hoti…,” a composition of acclaimed writer Gulzar, much to the delight of the audience.
 
 Bharadwaj then presented ‘Chhammak Chhallo’, written by famous author Amrita Pritam. The story was about a poor girl who lives with her crippled father and mother. She sells baskets for survival. Once her father urges her to sell all the baskets so that they can buy meat. But she fails to do it. At this time, a rich but sleazy man arrives and says that he will buy everything from her. The story then takes a dramatic turn as the man rapes and leaves her with Rs 10.
 
 Devastated, the girl comes home with the meat her father wanted to eat. His eyes turn moist on seeing her with meat. The story moved the audience as the girl fulfils the desire of her father, but her teary eyes do not tell her father the mental agony she is going through. The storytelling was excellent and left a lasting impact. 
 
 Durugkar presented ‘Banatala ‘na’ mhan’, written by Supriya Iyer. The story was about a reckless child who never used to study much and nobody ever thought that he will become successful in life. He fights odds with discipline and dedication and becomes a doctor. 
 
 A donation of Rs1.2 lakh was given to the organization by major  
 
 
