AHMEDABAD: The error factory that is the   (GSSTB) has churned out yet another shocker. The class IV Hindi (first-language) textbook prescribed for Hindi-medium students defines Roza as “Ek chaatak aur sankramak rog jisme dast aur kai aati hai” (an infectious disease that causes diarrhoea and vomiting). Roza is the fast Muslims keep in the  .

 This error is found in the definitions section of chapter 3 of the textbook titled ‘Eidgah’, a story by the legendary Hindi author, Premchand. Recently, another ‘error’ caused outrage among the Christian community in Gujarat. A class IX textbook of Hindi (second language) used ‘haivaan’ (demon) to describe Jesus. Calling the mistake a “typographical error”, the board issued a clarification in its monthly magazine and directed all Hindi schoolteachers to replace ‘haivaan’ with ‘bhagwaan’ (Lord).
 
  Executive director of  , who is under fire for the error-riddled textbooks, said: “It is a grave mistake. The word ‘roza’ has been confused with ‘haija’ or infectious cholera.” He said an emergency review of all textbooks will be made to stop such blunders from reaching students. He said that prima facie, it appeared that the error crept into the textbook at the data entry level.
 
 Mufti Shabbir Alam of the city-based   said that the blunder had hurt religious sentiments. “Earlier, they painted Jesus Christ as demon and now they have committed this mistake,” he said. “We will discuss this in our community and take action,” he said.
 
 Pethani insisted that the mistakes were typos and there was no intention to hurt sentiments of any religion. Education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said, “I had the textbook checked and I admit that it is a serious mistakeWe will institute an inquiry to determine how this error occurred.” He said thatthe culprit — be it the writer, proof-reader, or data entry operator — will be punished by making the name public. the culprit’s remuneration will be withheld and he or she will be barred from textbook work.Curiously, the error has been rectified in the web version of the textbook and does not appear in the same chapter in the class VIII textbook of the Hindi (second language) subject for Gujarati-medium students.
 
