AHMEDABAD: In an attempt to solve problems that soldiers face while protecting the country’s borders, two students and a faculty member of the Indian Institute of Technology,   (IIT-Gn), visited army camps in Rajasthan and Gujarat between February 4 and 8.

 Proffessor Shivkumar Jolad, assistant professor of physics in IIT-Gn, along with two students Parth Upadhyay, who is pursuing a PhD in electrical engineering and Hemant K Verma, an MTech (Electrical Engineering) student, visited   base camps in Jaisalmer, Longewala, Barmer and Kutch to understand the problems soldier face, especially in extreme weather conditions.
 
 The team was exposed to various problems related to equipment and living conditions in the extreme temperatures of the desert and the peculiar climate of the Rann of Kutch. The Indian Army, under their “Make Project” under the “Make in India” umbrella, conducted a familiarization visit for academia and industry to the border areas of the desert and the Rann of Kutch. This aimed to expose academia and industry to their problems at the ground level, a statement from IIT-Gn said.
 
 Jolad said that the institute is exploring solutions for problems like the heavy uniform, poor quality night-vision cameras and tanks often getting stuck in marshy terrain.
 
 “The visit to the army camps at border areas gave us insights to their problems and we are excited to contribute solutions,” he said.
 
 “We visited camps in Jaisalmer, Longewala, Barmer in Rajasthan and Kutch in Gujarat. We were mainly hosted by the Army but also visited border outposts of the BSF. Our main objective was to understand the problems soldiers face in extreme weather as the temperature at many places hits the 50°C (in summer) and dips below 0°C (in winter),” Jolad said.
 
 “They have to perform their duty for some 72 hours without a break in such extreme conditions. Their uniform is also not particularly suited to the environment. Beside this, vehicles get stuck in marshy terrain. These are some of the problems that need technological solutions,” added Jolad.
 
 He also said that some IIT-Gn faculty members are already looking for solutions to problems faced by soldiers.
 
 
