BASIRHAT/BADURIA: Basirhat remained on the edge with political parties on Friday expected to make a beeline to the troubled zones.
Chief minister   appealed to all political parties to stay away from Basirhat and help the administration's efforts to enforce peace.
 
 After Congress president Adhir Chowdhury said he would lead a party delegation, the Left Front said a party legislative team will also go to the trouble spots. Not to be left behind, the state   is expected to send a delegation led by MP Roopa Ganguly to the home of a victim who was brought dead to RG Kar hospital on Wednesday night.
 
 It's unlikely the state will allow the political parties to step in the zone where prohibitory orders are in force. While Baduria, where communal strife had erup ted on Sunday, attempted to limp back to normalcy, fresh trouble was reported in Basirhat sub-division, nearly 18km away.
 
 “We have not witnessed anything like this in three decades that we've lived here. The fear and panic is evident. But it is also affecting our livelihood. We are closeted to our homes for the last four days. If this continues we will soon run out of food,“ claimed Bappa Das, who's constantly shuttling between his Burma Colony home and Basirhat police station.Baduria homemaker Nuzrat Parveen said, “For the last two days I have been unable to go to the Raghunathpur primary health centre for the booster dose of my 18-month old son. This is turning from bad to worse.“
 
 “We had nothing to do with the Facebook post. We condemned the people involved in posting such material. Still, our shops and establishments were attacked on Monday. Those involved were mostly outsiders,“ said the owner of a shop near the Jatadhari petrol pump in Basirhat.
 
 The state's attempts to forge peace parleys between different communities appeared frustrated with sporadic trouble erupting since Wednesday evening.The strain is also showing on the beleaguered police forces. Cops had to burst tear gas shells to disperse mobs off the Basirhat railway station.
 
 “What were we to do? Armed with a lathi and a helmet, I was asked to stand guard at a location where a mob of nearly 200 people had gathered on Wednesday evening,“ an assistant SI said.
 
 
 
 
 Trinamool Congress's Basirhat (south) MLA and footballer Dipendu Biswas, who returned from Germany on Wednesday, claimed on Thursday that his home has been ransacked and he had sought police help.
 
 “My parents are scared,“ he said.Biswas also said that 10-12 Trinamool party offices in the area have been damaged.
 
