NEW DELHI: Going back to the pre-2011 days, the   ( ) has announced ‘remodelled assessment structure’ for Class X   to be effective from 2017-18 academic year. 

 The first batch will take the board exams on March 2018. While the exams will be based only on Class X syllabus, the evaluation scheme has been divided into two components — board examination and internal assessment, where students have to score 33% in each category to qualify the exam.
 
 As reported by TOI earlier, the   from 2018 will comprise of 80 marks of written test to be conducted by the CBSE and 20 marks of internal assessment, which has been further divided into three components of 10, 5 and 5 marks respectively. Although there will be no school-based exam henceforth, students will have to clear both the board test, as well as the school-based internal assessment separately, scoring at least 33%.
 
 In fact, internal assessment has retained some of the Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) features in its evaluation but in an abridged form, as the CBSE had clearly defined the marking scheme for 20 marks.
 
 The schools have to evaluate the students throughout the year for the 20 marks, which also includes three mandatory periodic written tests. For the internal assessment the schools will also assess the students on their “notebook submission” -- regularity, completion and neatness. Apart from laboratory works, even speaking and listening skills of the students will be assessed, which carries five marks in the internal assessment scheme.
 
 “The whole idea is that in languages listening and speaking skills are very important and there should be some focus on this. As far as the other criteria are concerned, classroom behaviour and regularity of the child are the main area. The period tests are to see the learning progress of the child over the year,” said Ashok Pandey, principal of   in Mayur Vihar.
 
 However, not all schools are happy with the complete undoing of the CCE scheme. “We hoped that the board will retain at least 40% to 30% of the CCE component while making board-based exam mandatory. There was nothing wrong with the idea, which was not implemented properly in many schools. But a large number of schools were doing well. It’s not good to kill an idea completely,” said the principal of a private school in south Delhi.
 
 The education board has also instructed schools to conduct three periodic written tests in the entire academic year and the average of the best two will be taken. Though schools are allowed to make their own schedule for the tests, CBSE has asked them to conduct one at the mid-term and the rest as pre-mid and post-mid term tests.
 
 
