KOHIMA: Protesting against the  's decision to reserve 33% of seats in   (ULBs) for women, a   (JCC) comprising Ao, Lotha, Sumi,   has threatened to call an   in Nagaland from January 27. 

 Election to the ULBs will be held on February 1.
 
 The JCC, in a memorandum signed by its convener Supu Jamir and secretary W Rainbow Ngullie, and submitted to chief minister T R Zeliang, urged the state government to defer the civic body polls or face 'untoward incidents'.
 
 The memorandum explained that opposition to the ULB election was not aimed at suppressing women's rights but was a protest against the state government's 'haste' in pushing through the election without having amended the Nagaland Municipal Act. 
 
 The JCC said 33% reservation for women was a direct infringement on Naga customary laws and traditional practices and Article 371-A of the Constitution.
 
 "The Nagas stand committed to safeguarding our vital inalienable rights of natural resources, customary and traditional rights. The state government is forcefully trying to conduct the ULB election despite strong protests from the people. This is in direct confrontation with the will and aspirations of the Naga people."
 
 Meanwhile, the Joint Action Committee on Women's Reservation said the "real grudge" of those opposing the ULB polls "was a question of empowering their women through reserved seats in these municipals and town councils."
 
 In a statement, the committee said the ULB polls "was not a hasty decision of the government" but the directive of an interim relief order given by the Supreme Court on April 5, 2016. 
 
 It expressed concern that Naga women's right to participate in the electoral process had been "violated by bandhs, threats and use of force in towns where candidates, including women, were unable to file their nominations or were forced to withdraw their papers."
 
 It also urged tribe organisations to "allow the democratic right of each citizen to elect good, capable leaders who will bring about proper development in towns in various parts of the state." 
 
 
