VISAKHAPATNAM: The   (VPT) is expected to launch full-fledged container cargo movement between the port city and the landlocked country of Nepal by the end of April or early May. At the same time,   is looking at handling break-bulk and dry bulk cargo in the coming days for Nepal subsequent to clearances from the central government.

 VPT officials said subsequent to discussions with a Nepal delegation, the first batch of around 80 containers are likely to move from Vizag to Nepal by the end of this month.
 
 At a meeting with a delegation from Nepal led by consul general   and Consul of Nepal Mohan Niraula on Friday, VPT deputy chairman PL Haranadh said Nepal trade would benefit by using VPT as it is secure, transparent and is also an e-Port. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Haranadh said, "We have requested Nepal delegation to open a branch office in the port premises and we have given three options for their office. All the cargo going to Nepal has to get clearance from the   General's office. As it is not located here, the permissions have to be taken from New Delhi. This will be an inconvenience for traders also, so they have agreed to open a branch office in the next two months." 
 
 Pointing out that congestion in Kolkata for rail traffic is one of the reasons for Nepal looking at VPT as an alternative port, Haranadh said, "Starting operations from VPT will give them the advantage of cheaper ocean freight as they can bring in larger vessels. The haulage charges for railway movement from Vizag to Nepal will be offset by the cheaper ocean freight."
 
 He said the container traffic to Nepal is around 5,000 TEUs (twenty foot equivalent units) per month and VPT is initially aiming for around 30 per cent of the container traffic. "We are also asking them to look at break-bulk cargo such as coal, fertiliser, steel to be routed by VPT. So hopefully, once container cargo operations start, we can also look at break-bulk in the coming days."
 
 During the visit, Consul General of   said the Nepal government is keen on movement of cargo from VPT and is also looking at establishing a small unit in Vizag to look after logistic arrangements for cargo movement.
 
 
