NEW DELHI: Chief minister   wrote to lieutenant governor   on Thursday, saying that he was totally unaware that the LG had taken up the matter of traffic congestion in Delhi and was working with bureaucrats to address the situation.

 On Tuesday, Kejriwal had written to the chief secretary, asking for directions to be issued to the transport commissioner to identify traffic bottlenecks and their solutions. A day later, Baijal wrote to the CM, saying that he had already taken up the issue and that work had started to decongest various stretches.
 
 In his response to the LG’s letter, Kejriwal has offered full support to Baijal on this issue. However, the CM added that had he been aware that the LG had already issued orders to officials on this matter, he would not have interfered.
 
 “I was pleasantly surprised to read your letter in which you have said that you have formed six task force units to work on improving the traffic situation in Delhi, which has been working for the past few months. You have written that they have also completed a significant amount of work. Neither I nor my ministers had any information about this. If we did, we would not have given directions separately to the transport commissioner. The people of Delhi are fed up with the traffic situation and I am extremely happy that you have started working in this direction along with officers,” the CM’s letter read.
 
 The reference to the LG working with officials while keeping the cabinet out of the loop is difficult to miss in the letter. While the acrimonious tussles between the government and the previous LG are missing with Baijal, the CM has often said that he and his ministers are being bypassed in several matters. While the LG has jurisdiction over traffic police, municipal corporations and  ,   and transport department are under the Delhi government.
 
 In Thursday’s letter, Kejriwal further said that officials alone would not be able to provide all the solutions to the problem as “only the wearer knows where the shoe pinches”. “The traffic situation in Delhi is highly complicated...we should involve the public in identifying remedies for this. The solution to this problem will not come just from officers. I will cooperate with you fully in this matter,” he said.
 
 
