LUCKNOW: A chain of restaurants dotting the skyline of mini-metros, like Lucknow, Dehradun, and Chandigarh. That’s the dream of Lucknow girl and Indian School of Business topper   – the first girl student to win the   Chairman’s Award (Gold Medal) at the Hyderabad-based premier institute.

 Deepansha was felicitated with two awards – Young Leaders Award and ISB Chairman’s Award for excellence in leadership, all-round performance and significant contribution to campus activities - at the institute’s Graduation Day ceremony held this week. The awards were given away by industrialist Rahul Bajaj.
 
 She had joined the ISB for an MBA programme in April 2016 after completing graduation from  .
 
 Deepansha’s resume could be the envy of any graduate: a meritorious student, economics graduate from Delhi University, Young India fellowship, and now an ISB topper. She did her high school from CMS, Gomtinagar and intermediate from DPS RK Puram, Delhi. She got a prized placement at Google, but took a calculated risk in joining the ISB. “I chose ISB as it ensured exposure to the best of the minds in the industry and I learnt the ropes in the process,” Deepansha told TOI.
 
 For now, Deepansha wants to go back to digi-tech sector and already has offers lined up. Meanwhile, during her visits to Lucknow and other developing cities she has spotted a business opportunity just like a true-blue entrepreneur. “I have noticed that even in the mini-metros, people have started dining out and experimenting. The foodies are willing to go beyond Chinese and North Indian platters. As food is something I am passionate about, I would love to explore this field in the long-term,” Deepansha told TOI. Besides, it would be her way of contributing to the progress of small towns. “I would like to give back to India and as I love travelling also I would like to explore more cities and towns across the country. I am definitely not moving abroad in the next 5 to 10 years,” Deepansha emphasized. Perhaps, this is what sets her apart from her counterparts – staying true to her roots.
 
 As for her parents, UP’s   officer Deepak Trivedi and Neelima, the pride in their voices as they talk about their daughter’s achievement is unmistakable. “Deepansha is free to pursue her dreams and we will support her in all decisions,” said her mother Neelima. 
 
 
