His election was one that the world will not forget in a long time, as perhaps no other president was greeted was as much flak and protests just 24 hours into his win. And it is expected that controversial President-elect Donald Trump’s official swearing-in ceremony tomorrow is going to cause just as much furore. As he takes oath as America’s 45th president, the glamour-packed event promises pomp and circumstance in the US capital like none other.
 
 
  
  
 The run-up to what will be one of the most watched events in recent times has seen a flurry of preparations — from top-of-the-art robust sound systems to stages, lighting, security screeners, warming tents, halls for the ball, draperies, floral arrangements and more. The celebrations are being organised around the theme ‘Make America Great Again’, which Trump used in his campaign. The show will kick off with the wreath-laying ceremony by Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence at the Arlington National Cemetery. Artists are set to perform on the footsteps of the Lincoln Memorial. Trump is also holding three inaugural balls (Obama had 10 of them at his first inaugural). His team also hopes to keep its parade to 90 minutes. The longest parade, with 73 bands and 59 floats, lasted more than four hours, at Dwight Eisenhower’s first  , in 1953.
 
 As per reports, Trump will be sworn-in as the 45th US President on January 20 using two Bibles, one that former President Abraham Lincoln used at his first inauguration. The other is his own, which dates back to his childhood, which his mother presented to him upon his graduation from Sunday Church Primary School at First Presbyterian Church, on Children’s Day on June 12, 1955.
 
 
 
  
  
 The inauguration is clearly not going to be an average affair by any means, but one with as much glamour and hoopla that can be imagined. A report says Trump has raised a record $90 million to cover its astronomical costs, far more than President Barack Obama’s two inaugural committees.
 
 
 
 
 
 A sizeable chunk of the who’s who is not going to be seen at the inauguration. As per reports, key performers have stayed away, allegedly for their own reasons or from fear of a backlash from fans.   has declined. “He will not be performing,” affirmed his publicist. Just a month ago, John said in an interview that the prospect of a Trump presidency made him “fear for the world.” Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli is also not performing. County singer Garth Brooks affirmed he won’t be there as “scheduling conflict kept him from performing”. David Foster, producer and 16-time Grammy winner, says he “politely and respectfully declined,” too. Welsh singer-songwriter Charlotte Church says she was invited to perform, but she responded on Twitter to Trump, saying. “A simple Internet search would show I think you’re a tyrant.”
 
 
  
  
 Massive protests are being organised all over the country against Trump. In New York,  , Alec Baldwin and Michael Moore have organised a guys’ march.  , Julianne Moore,  , Debra Messing, Frances McDormand and Amy Schumer are expected to be in a women’s march. Reports say tens of thousands are also readying to hit the streets of   DC during his inaugural week, to show their opposition to the newly-elected president.
 
 
 As per a menu released by the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies, the traditional luncheon — for  , Mike Pence, their families, congressional leadership, members of the Supreme Court and future Cabinet secretaries — will be a three-course meal of lobster and shrimp with a saffron sauce and peanut crumble, a second course of meat with dark chocolate, juniper jus and potato gratin, chocolate soufflé and cherry vanilla ice cream.
 
 
  
  
 Trump inauguration souvenirs are being sold in the run-up to the big day. Stores in Washington are cashing in on the drama and selling everything from Trump-chocolate bars, to baseball hats, buttons, mugs, calendars and more.
 
 
 
 He may now hold the majority vote, but Donald Trump is said to have one big lesson to learn from outgoing US President  . British behavioural expert Judi James says Trump needs to learn to cry so as to show a warmer side to him. “If he could squeeze one tear out during his inauguration on Friday, people will turn around quite quickly their feelings towards him. Clearly, he is going to go swanning out there with his alpha male feathers strutting, but if at the right moment he could squeeze out a tear it would have an amazing effect on people,” said the author. Obama has shown his emotional side over numerous occasions and has wept at least 10 times on camera.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The Inauguration ceremony will begin on the west front of the Capitol with musical performances. Sixteen-year-old soprano Jackie Evancho will be singing the 
 national anthem. The Rockettes dance troupe will also perform.
 
 
 Opening remarks, followed by religious leaders offering the invocation and readings. Pence will be sworn in by Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas.
 
 
 Trump will recite the oath of office using Abraham Lincoln’s inauguration Bible, as well as the one that his mother gave to him at his Sunday School graduation. He will then deliver his inaugural address.
 
 
 Ceremony ends. As per tradition, Trump and Pence will attend the Congressional Lunch in the Capitol.
 
 
 Inaugural parade. The new President and Vice-President make their way 1.5 miles (2.4 kilometres) along Pennsylvania Avenue from the Capitol to the  , with bands, members of all US military branches, etc.
 
 
 Trump, Pence and their wives will make appearances at three official inaugural balls, two of which will be held at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center and the other, at the National Building Museum.
 
 
 
 
