For the promotions of ' ',   and the film's crew made their way to Delhi by August Kranti Express train. It departed from Mumbai Central station on Monday evening, and played host to media persons. Sunny Leone, film's director  , and producer   were also on board.

 Shah Rukh played the perfect host and answered questions ranging from his views on modern romance and relationships, his experience of shooting ' ' on top of a train to his decision to back female-driven films.
 
  
  
 When asked if he finds the time to watch his own films, he said, "I haven't really sat through an entire film. I don't remember which is the last film I watched. I don't know if I even saw 'Chennai Express'. I haven't seen any film I guess. During 'Jab Tak Hai Jaan' I remember we had a grand premiere but again I left that halfway through because something came up. I haven't watched a film in a theatre with the audience and just relaxed while watching the film in a long time now."
 
 The 'Dear Zindagi' actor said that he finds trains to be "utterly romantic". "I never had a romance in train, never had the opportunity. But having read books, poetry (involving trains), I find the rhythm of a train very romantic. I think it's the most romantic place. In movies it is time bound, we are moving from one place to another, or either the train is stationary. You can do it with a green screen but I really feel it can be utterly romantic to be on a train. I find it very romantic and peaceful. This is the only place in the world where I can go to sleep calmly. I just get into the zone. I get down to write in train journeys."
 
 
 
 
 SRK, who is often called the King of Romance, commented on how the dynamics in modern relationships have changed, and that reflects in the cinema that is being made in India too. "I think the times have changed a lot in terms of the language. Romance hasn't changed. I think people have less time. I also find this whole rightly-so push for equality creates more of a buddy-feel between men and women. When you are buddies, you can't romance. There is a whole wave which I notice with youngsters, because I have kids and some young actors and actresses talk to each other very differently. Romance has to have a little formality. Whether it's tehzeeb, or going down on your knees. Whether it is saying couplets in praise of a girl, I am from that school and I still believe in it. I think romance has to be a little formal. 'Aur phir kya kar rahi hai?' It can't work like that, even if there is equality."
 
 
  
  
 "It can't be that you're in beach shorts and say 'chal ek chakkar laga ke aate hai bro' (Let's go take a walk by the beach, bro). It can't work like that. I think somebody will find the language. I think I am too old for a romantic film now, of that genre. May be the youngsters will have to find language which has formality but still end up being relevant. May be in  's film it might be there because I am playing a character closer to my real age, the lady of course,  , is younger than me. There I have this formality because he belongs to that world, but the language is very Imtiaz. He has a very modern thinking and has a different take on romance. I think it should be a mix of the old and the new, I am not too sure. But youngsters should do films with a balance of ease, formality and the language still being new."
 
 On being a constant advocate for equality for women, he said, "I may not be able to convince you with my life's story at my age and stage that I have reached but I come from a different world. I work with new directors but I don't understand the beauty of it. To be honest, I understand the essence, I understand the empowerment of women, I understand the issues about young women and their issues. I didn't understand 'Dear Zindagi'. But it is very essential to make films on these things. It is important for me also to participate in films like this, even if I don't understand them. At least, I am a part of it. I am taking a side which is understandable."
 
 The actor recalled his memories of shooting 'Chaiyya Chaiyaa' on top of a train. He mentioned that all the other dancers were tied to the train, except for him, and that is why he could do the jumps. "The dancers were all tied down that's why it was very difficult. The train was slow, but many times, those overhead bridges use to come and there was no communication like how you have those speakers now. I remember   and the rest of the crew carried a white cloth. Every time they put it up it meant stop the song and just bend down. It was very scary. Because even when you lie down it was like you could literally feel the bridge pass over you. That song was shot guerrilla style. The train would stop and suddenly start. It was very difficult to shoot the song. It was fun but not without its difficulties."
 
 The rail ride will end on Tuesday morning, when the train reaches Delhi. The actor and his crew will then proceed for further promotional activities in the city.
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
