British electronic group Clean Bandit, comprising  , Luke Patterson and Grace Chatto, has come a long way from Cambridge University, where they first formed their band. From bagging a Grammy Award to topping UK charts with their smash hit 'Rockabye',   is taking the international music scene by storm. The Time Of India caught up with Jack Patterson, one of the founding members of the band, for a quick chat. 
 
 
 
 No, not at all. It was a big surprise for all of us. It was very cool that so many people liked it. We were very surprised that it was Christmas number 1, because 'Rockabye' is not a Christmas song. My family and I were all sitting and watching 'Top Of the Pops' on Christmas Day and when the song appeared, we all started dancing around the table.
  
 
 
 We wrote this song with Ina Wroldsen; we have written a lot of music with her in the past. She was the one who came up with the story of a single mother. We just thought it was a very cool narrative and it's a story that isn't told very often. We were really excited to write the music with this story in mind.
  
  
  
 
 
 
 Yeah, working with him was amazing. We wanted to work with him for many, many years. I remember, we went to one of his concerts in London about four-five years ago and we gave him our CD. He said he would listen to it and later on, he told us that he liked it. It was only last year that we got together and worked on this song.
  
 
 
 We all met in Cambridge University where we were studying. And believe it or not, none of us was studying music (laughs). We set up the band as a kind of project ' it was initially just a string quartet. Then we started adding drum beats and bass, and worked with Love Ssega who was our first vocalist. Then gradually, we started working with other singers. Certain songs became more popular than others and then, one day, we suddenly found ourselves thrown into the world in 2015 (laughs).
  
  
  
 
 
 
 It's really sad that Neil decided to leave. I had a dream last night that he came into my house and left the oven on. I don't know what that dream means (laughs). It's obviously a big deal when one of the founding members of the band leaves. But at the same time, we work with so many people all the time ' we are constantly collaborating with different people and when we tour, there are like seven people on the stage. So although technically, a quarter of the band has gone, in a way, it makes less impact in our daily lives. But obviously, we miss him a lot.
  
 
 
 That has to be 'How deep is your love' by Bee Gees. Every time I listen to it, I think it's one of the best songs ever written. I love it.
  
  
  
 
 
 I am not too clued in to any Indian musician currently. But the interesting thing is, my father was a sound engineer. And believe it or not, he did the sound for a show when Ravi Shankar had come to perform at his university. That's a story he often told me.
 
