CHENNAI: A week after 18 rebel MLAs of the   were disqualified by the   assembly speaker P Dhanapal,   whip R Sakkrapani has approached the Madras high court seeking a direction to the speaker to begin disqualification proceedings against O   and 10 other MLAs who voted against the confidence motion moved by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on February 18.

 Noting that the inaction of speaker against the 11 MLAs is deliberate and mala fide, Sakkrapani said, "The speaker has not even issued a notice on the petition for disqualification filed on March 20 against O Panneerselvam and 10 other MLAs of the AIADMK in accordance with provisions of the tenth schedule of the Constitution and the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly (Disqualification on ground of Defection) Rules 1986 for defying the party-line whip issued by the chief government whip S Rajendran."
 
 O Panneerselvam, Aarukutty, Shanmuganathan, Manickam, Manoharan, K Pandiarajan, Manoranjitham, Saravanan, Semmalai, Chinnaraj and R Natraj were the 11 MLAs who voted against the government. Arunkumar, the legislator of Pollachi constituency, abstained from voting without the permission of the party, he added. 
 
 He submitted that the said act of 11 MLAs of voting against the whip had not been condoned, within 15 days of voting, by the political party (AIADMK) to which they belong. "Despite lapse of more than six months, even the notices were not issued showing complete mala fide and partisan behaviour of the speaker. I humbly submit that under para 2 (1) (b) of the 10th schedule, if a member of the house votes against the whip and such conduct in not condoned within 15 days then such member is disqualified for being member of the house on the ground of defection."
 
 The petitioner also claimed that corruption in the present government is evident from the fact the chief minister, by using the inaction of speaker, has made O Panneerselvam the deputy chief minister and K Pandirajan a minister. This is a clear act of corruption and quid pro quo for supporting a minority government, he said in his petition. 
 
 As the high court has been closed for Dussehra vacation till October 2, the plea filed on Monday is likely to be taken up for hearing by a vacation judge during the scheduled vacation hearing on Wednesday.
 
 
