For the spate of incidents of cruelty against (especially) street animals being reported, there’s an equal number of examples, if not more, of people in the city working for their adoption and welfare. Case in point, the number of clay pots that have been lining streets in areas like   (KP), Kalyani Nagar, Boat Club Road and Shivajinagar, among others, of late. Replenished with drinking water regularly, these have been lovingly placed by a growing group of animal lovers – a mix of NGO members, volunteers, restaurateurs, societies and even watchmen, in a bid to make the harsh summer a bit easier for Pune’s strays to get by.
 
  
 
 People doing their bit for animals in summer isn’t new, but this is a revolution of sorts. Explaining why, Mojdeh Farashahi, one of the volunteers spearheading the drive, says, “There’s a lot you can do when people come together. Many were feeding strays in their vicinities, but we decided to team up this time to also implore more people to join in.” They’ve named the cause  .
 
 The pledge is simple, Mojdeh says. “You have to just be willing to place a bowl of water, also agreeing to clean and replenish it daily.” And many seem to have warmed up to the idea. Restaurateurs including those of Prem’s, Euriska, The Yogi Tree,  , The Flour Works and The Little Next Door have adopted or taken the responsibility to feed dogs from nearby. 
 
 But it isn’t just restaurateurs. Commercial set-ups (like Sabby’s Tattoo Studio, Anand Opticians, Royal Medicals), NGOs and shelters (People For 
 Animals, Bodhisattva, Petforce), housing societies (Nityanand Society on Boat Club Road), expats as well as security guards have taken up the cause, which is evident by the many heart-warming posts that Mojdeh puts up on Facebook every time someone pledges. “There’s great power in social media. Seeing these 
 people leading the way, many others have been inspired to join in,” says Mojdeh.
 
 Anuja Alevoor, who tends to over 40 dogs in Kalyani Nagar, believes that such initiatives create awareness among the masses. “As volunteers, we face a lot of harassment from residents. A movement like this can make people aware of the fact that if these animals are taken care of regularly, it will only help reduce human-animal conflict and improve co-existence.”
  
  
 
 
 Over 100 earthen pots have been placed across the city, with 50 in KP alone. Mojdeh says. “To join in, one could either ask us for pots, sponsor some, or source some themselves.” Or, you could get innovative, like Mangaldas Road resident Manish Dholepatil. “After our neighbours renovated their bathroom, I made their old washbasin a feeding bowl,” says Manish. Installed outside Wellness Medicals on Dhole Patil Road, it has benefited strays and birds alike. 
 
 After the institute shifted elsewhere, the dogs here were left to fend for themselves. I’m very attached to them, so I continue feeding them. This initiative will help me continue tending to these animals. — Raju Gaikwad, caretaker of the Mundhwa property previously rented out by FAD International
 
 I wasn’t used to seeing dogs on the streets; it was distressing. So, I decided to help the eight dogs in our vicinity in the best way possible. We replenish their water bowls and feed them chicken and rice every day. It’s very gratifying! — Clementina Borsani, Italian expatriate from Naragi Baug Road Similar initiatives across India.
 
 
 
 
 
 To spread awareness about the plight of stray dogs and that they aren’t harmful, student Eden Dias started this Facebook page last year. After uploading selfies with homeless dogs, she’s started getting submissions too, hence furthering the message.
 
  
 Five students from LSR started this community to look after the feeding, sterilisation, and adoption of campus strays, thereby greatly reducing chances for human-animal conflict in colleges.
 
  
 For several years now, Anjali Sharma has been feeding homeless animals (at Harrington Road) out of a van. Restaurants have been helping out by providing leftover food.
 
