HUBBALLI: Rural students of North Karnataka and the entire state will have an opportunity to upgrade their science knowledge by interacting with renowned scientist Bharat Ratna Prof C N R Rao and other scientists, through practical knowledge and experiments.

 The initiative was taken by Chandan School of Laxmeshwar in Gadag district, to encourage science among high school and college students of rural areas.
 
 In a first of its kind in the state, the  , aimed at improving the knowledge of science among rural students, will be held for three days from January 20. Prof   is jointly organizing this programme with Chandan School.
 
 On these three days, Prof Rao, Indumati Rao and 10 other scientists will focus on fundamental science and enlighten them on the basics.
 
 T Ishwar, founder of Chandan Education Society, Laxmeshwar, said many parents and students are still opting for only medical and engineering courses and most of them are ignoring science due to a lack of awareness. We want to change that view by drawing their attention towards science, he said. 
 
 He said their school has already caught the attention of renowned scientists like Rao for the students’ achievements in scientific work. "The artificial rocket launching ‘Chandrayaan’ project of our school brought a great deal of name and fame to our school, which was appreciated by many scientists of the state,” said Ishwar.
 
 “We are proud that the Prof C N R Rao Foundation has chosen our school to conduct the outreach programme. We want to popularize fundamental science which needs to be discussed in every household to put an end to blind belief, and develop a scientific temper in society,” he said.
 
 While the programme is basically meant for rural students, it has also been extended to urban students. During the programme, scientists will throw light on the fundamentals of physics, chemistry and biology, clear their doubts, carry out experiments and have projects for the students. A quiz on science, and cultural and other events related to fundamental science will also be held.
 
 Students from other districts will have to write an entrance test to take part in the programme. The test is based on   for high school and PU students. More than 500 students will participate in the event. Free food and accommodation will be given to the students.
 
 
