CHANDIGARH: The   and Haryana   on Tuesday issued notice to the state of Punjab, Punjab Electricity Regulatory Commission and the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), in a plea seeking abolition of agricultural pump set subsidy to rich farmers in the state of Punjab.

 Division bench comprising Justice A K Mittal and Justice Amit Rawal have issued the notices after taking cognizance of public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate H C Arora.
 
 Petitioner has stated that the state of Punjab has been providing free electricity for tube wells to farmers for the past several years. Such subsidy, which is reimbursed to PSPCL by the state government, has touched the figure of Rs. 6113 crores during 2016-2017. 
 
 Informing that the rich farmers are also availing this subsidy, the petitioner told the HC that some of the richest farmers availing the facility include former Punjab CM,  , former deputy CM, Sukhbir Singh Badal, state Finance minister,  , Punjab CM, Captain   himself and MLA  . 
 “They all are enjoying the concession of free electric power for the tube wells installed for irrigating farm land. Only one such rich farmer, Sukhpal Singh Khaira has surrendered such subsidy of his own will, and no other MLA has given up subsidy, despite an appeal made by Captain Amrinder Singh, CM, Punjab, who himself has not given up subsidy so far”, argued the petitioner.
 
 The PIL has pleaded that rich farmers do not deserve such concessions, and that they should be excluded from the purview of this scheme. The amount so saved can be utilized for redressal of legitimate grievances of small farmers who are committing suicides due to burden of debt. He also demanded that all IAS/IPS officers, MLAs/MPs/Industrialists who have farm lands also, should be excluded from the benefits of this scheme. 
 
 According to the petitioner, the Punjab government is facing a financial crunch, and does not have funds to make timely payment of salaries to its employees. Thus, the Punjab government should not be permitted to indulge into such wasteful expenditure.
 
 The petitioner has pleaded that just as some rich and prosperous persons are excluded from the benefit of OBC Reservations, as “creamy layer”, such a creamy layer should be carved out from amongst farmers also, by determining some criteria, so that rich farmers are not allowed to avail such subsidy.
 
 The petitioner has also pleaded that method of giving benefit of subsidy being full of loop holes, some system to measure consumption of electric power should be evolved, and small farmers should be extended benefit of free electric power on the basis of optimum consumption of such power per acre, so that electric energy may not be wasted. Excessive use of tube wells is resulting into lowering of water table, which is not in the interest of the state.
 
