   was a rank outsider for the BJP parivar in the 2012 assembly elections, stemming resentment among the RSS cadre over his nomination as the party candidate from  . But, the saffron party quickly moved into damage control mode and succeeded in quelling any hint of rebellion over his nomination. The RSS cadre strongly rallied behind Cabral to ensure his victory over Congress candidate  .
 
  Five years later, the ideological battle within the   over the   (MoI) issue is being played out quite pronouncedly in Curchorem.
  
  Ironically for the “parivar”, the protagonists of the battle are once again Cabral and Satardekar, both contesting on tickets of the parties which belong to the Hindutva family. While Cabral is the BJP nominee, Satardekar has been fielded by the Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) as the GSM-MGP-Shiv-Sena alliance candidate. The dilemma among the supporters of the saffron ideology is, therefore, quite palpable in this constituency, as a large section of the RSS cadre has thrown its weight behind Satardekar, this time.
  
  “That remains the only cause of concern for the BJP in Curchorem, as otherwise Cabral is on safe ground,” a political commentator remarked.
  
  What lends a touch of drama to the irony is that Cabral was once a close confidante of Satardekar, and had put his heart and soul in Satardekar’s election campaign during the 2007 assembly elections. And when Satardekar - who had contested on the Congress ticket - got the people’s mandate, it looked as though the brothers-in-arms were running the political show in Curchorem, just as they did in managing their mining transportation business. However, Cabral later fell out of favour with Satardekar over some business-related issues, resulting in both being pitted against each other in the 2012 polls.
  
  While Satardekar slipped into near-oblivion over the last five years, since his defeat, he resurfaced on the political horizon only weeks ahead of the polls to be declared the GSM candidate.
  
  Though differences over MoI issue caused a rift in the Sangh Parivar, the GSM has joined forces with Cabral’s detractors, who are trying to garner opposition to Fomento’s proposed Rail Freight Terminal at Assolda, and the proposed garbage treatment plant at Cacora. What’s worrisome for Cabral is the fact that among those who have joined the opposition brigade are the ones who were, until recently, staunch BJP workers, including a couple of past councillors of the Curchorem Cacora Muncipal Council.
  
  This has apparently forced Cabral on the back foot, even as he terms the opposition to the proposed project as “political mispropaganda”.
  
  “It was I who had supported the Assolda panchayat to move the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the proposed Rail Freight Terminal by Fomento. Where’s the question of me supporting the project?” says Cabral. The 45-year-old mining engineer, however, avers that he isn’t averse to shifting the location of the proposed garbage treatment plant if people object, but firmly bats for the “technology-driven” plant.
  
  Cabral also faces the threat of a probable division of Catholic votes, which had largely gone in his favour in the last elections. Cabral was among the six Catholic candidates fielded by the BJP in the 2012 polls, all of whom had made it to the state legislative assembly. The Catholic community comprises of nearly 7,000 votes out of a total of over 25,000-strong electorate.
  
  Political commentators are of the view that the Aam Aadmi Party’ (AAP) entry in the fray will eat into a large chunk of the traditional Catholic votes from this constituency. AAP has fielded James Fernandes, a teacher by profession, who is also an RTI activist. The “common man’s” party has made both the controversial projects – the Rail Freight Terminal and the garbage treatment plant – its election plank. AAP has also promised to complete the mining bypass road from Uguem to Guddemol if it comes to power. Fernandes was among those who led the mining bypass agitation at Tilamol before he joined the AAP and was appointed its convenor for the constituency last year.
  
  The Congress, however, failed to field any formidable candidate to take on the might of the right-wing parties. Rosario Fernandes’ vote-pulling ability is unlikely to transcend Assolda and Xeldem panchayat areas, and therefore, unlikely to make any significant dent into either Cabral’s or Satardekar’s votes.
  
  Poll observers say, though Cabral enjoys a clear edge at the moment, one cannot discount the strength of the RSS cadre, who are working overtime to defeat the BJP. Will Curchorem side with leader of the rebel RSS faction in Goa Subhash Velingkar or defence minister Manohar Parrikar? The knives are out, and it’s anybody’s guess at the moment.
