GURGAON: One more employee of a pub in Cyber Hub, where an   and his two friends were thrashed by  , was arrested for his alleged role in the brawl, police said. A sommelier of the bar had been arrested earlier for allegedly roughing up the guests in the early hours of Tuesday. The duo — Sumit and Roopak — were produced in the court, which sent granted them bail on Friday.

 Police said the three bouncers, who are on the run, were identified with the help of CCTV footage and would be nabbed soon. They said the names of the bouncers would be revealed only after their  .
 
 According to police, Rahul Laxman, who lives in the UK, and his two friends — Ishant Aggarwal and Sidharth — went to   in Cyber Hub, along with a woman, to spend an evening together. The woman left the pub after a few hours, but the trio stayed on.
 
 Around 1.30 am, when the bartender asked customers to leave, Rahul, Ishant and Sidharth insisted on having some more drinks. The pub manager objected to their demand, saying that they were closing for the day. This led to an altercation between the trio and the pub employees. Soon, bouncers, who were called in, allegedly thrashed the guests.
 
 Rahul alleged that the bouncers attacked them even though they were trying to solve the issue, they were “beaten up with baseball bats”.
 
 Acting on the complaint of Rahul, an FIR was registered against the bar employees and bouncers under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (unlawful assembly), 323 (causing hurt), 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapon), 325 (for voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC at DLF-II police station. While Roopak was arrested on Wednesday, Sumit was arrested on Friday, police said. “Raids are on to nab the bouncers. We have identified them,” said inspector Sudeep Kumar, SHO, DLF-II police station.
 
 A statement issued by The Wine Company claimed that the NRI and his friends misbehaved with its staffers. “Our wine sommelier Roopak intervened when an altercation broke out, but was brutally assaulted and dragged across the restaurant with his neck being choked,” it stated. The Wine Company, statement further stated it “has only two bouncers who later intervened and escorted the guests out of the restaurant”. 
 
 
