HYDERABAD: Herbal cure for white patches or leucoderma is fast picking up in the city with thousands of people benefiting from the ancient   system of medicine.

 The Central government's recognition to Unani cure for leucoderma by awarding Padma Shri, country's fourth highest civilian honour, to Unani researcher Dr MA Waheed in January has made the unique herbal formulation popular across India. Scores of people from across the country suffering from leucoderma or vitiligo now queue up daily for the Unani formulation developed by Dr Waheed and his team at the   (CRIUM), apremier research body of the Union ministry of AYUSH.
 
 Dr Waheed retired as the officiating director of CRIUM in the city. Unani (Arabic for Greek) is a Greco-Indian system of medicine. It has its foundations in the ancient Greek, Roman, Persian, and Indian systems of medicine.   had the first major Unani hospital (Darusshifa built about 400 years ago) in India.
 
 Leucoderma has no cure in modern medicine and the only remedy available is skin graft or injection of melanin pigment into the skin. But Dr Waheed's team at the CRIUM had successfully tested the herbal formulation on thousands of people suffering from leucoderma. The herbal medicine has emerged a new hope for thousands of patients. “The results are highly successful. Re-pigmentation occurs within weeks of taking the medicine. It depends on the place where white patches are located and their pattern. First, the Unani formulation stabilises the condition by controlling the spread,“ Dr Waheed told TOI. He said he had improved upon the formulation for better results.
 
 Leucoderma is an auto-immune problem. It is not hereditary. It does not spread to others. At worst it is a cosmetic problem rather than a health condition or disease. According to Dr Waheed, the incidence of leucoderma is 0.5 to one per cent worldwide. But in India it varies from 0.4 per cent to 2.5 per cent from place to place. “Gujarat and Rajasthan have the highest prevalence in terms of patients seeking treatment. But if the patients, who do not seek medical attention, are also included then the incidence of leucoderma is very high in the coastal areas of Kerala,  , Andhra Pradesh,   and Gujarat. In Hyderabad the incidence is 1.2 per cent of the population,“ Dr Waheed said.
 
 He said it is a dermatological, social, psychological, metabolic and not always a genetic problem. It is not clear how the problem surfaces. The problem occurs when the melanocytes (cells containing the body pigment melanin) are destroyed by the body's immune system for some reason not yet known.
 
 “It is a cosmetic problem but hits the psyche of the patient as he or she finds it difficult to find a match. There many instances of girls with leucoderma remaining spinster due to the socio-psychological stigma though medically it is not a serious problem. It is necessary to make an assessment of the disease activity prior to initiating treatment,“ he added.
 
 Dr Waheed said Unani compound formulations (oral and external application) have been inducing cosmetically acceptable re-pigmentation. There are different treatments modalities developed by the CRIUM) to overcome the resistance created because of prolong treatments, to control further spread of the disease and to induce re-pigmentation.
 
