VISAKHAPATNAM: With just one promoter making a bid for the development of a minor port at   in   district, the state government has to now take a decision on the revenue share being offered to it by the private developer for the project to move ahead. 

 According to senior   officials, the   has emerged as the only developer for  . However, while officials declined to reveal details on the revenue share offered to the government, sources said it is lower than what was expected by the AP government. 
 
 "The bid for the Bhavanapadu Port was opened, evaluated and subsequently submitted to the government. The government has to take a decision on whether it is satisfied with the revenue share offered by the developer," said a senior AP official. He added, "The environmental impact assessment study and social impact assessment studies are over and the land acquisition process is underway."
 
 “The revenue share offered by the   as it was the single bidder is quite low,” according to another government official, who added that there may be negotiations in future to increase the revenue share. At the same time, sources said the ministry of home affairs has given its consent for the project. “The home ministry has communicated its go ahead for the project,” the official added.
 
 The Bhavanapadu Port was initially estimated to be spread over 5,000 acre, but subsequently it was revised to around 2,050 acre. According to Srikakulam district officials, the notification for the acquisition of land was issued last year, but the process is yet to start. 
 
 "We are holding meetings with the local people on a regular basis, but the financial package for relief and rehabilitation has to be finalised. Once that is completed and the state government provides the funds, we can start the acquisition process," said a revenue official in Srikakulam. He said, "Out of the total 2,050 acre, around 517 acre belongs to the government and the remaining has to be acquired."
 
 The proposed port is expected to have a capacity of around 30 million tonnes with 14 berths. While the first phase will witness development of five berths, the second phase will involve construction of nine berths. The estimated cost is around Rs 3,725 crore in addition to the Rs 650 crore required for land acquisition, sources said. 
 
 
