BENGALURU: Doctors working with the health and family welfare department are upset with a government ultimatum that seeks to link their salaries with its drive to ensure patients are provided only generic drugs available at pharmacies in hospitals run by it. The department has asked the doctors to give, by July 31, a written undertaking that they'd not ask their patients to purchase drugs from outside government hospitals if they wanted their salary for the month. The doctors' association, on the other hand, has asked them not to abide by the ultimatum. Barring Chitradurga, Vijayapura and   districts, where all doctors have fallen in line, no statistics on such undertakings elsewhere in the state were available till late Monday evening.

 The health department's ultimatum is part of its move to ensure drugs are bought only from Jan Aushadhis (generic drug stores) at government hospitals.
 
 “While the government has banned the practice of doctors giving prescriptions to patients to buy medicines from outside government hospitals, it has been noticed that some are still writing such prescriptions and forcing patients to procure drugs from other places, say ing the same aren't available at the hospital pharmacy . The chief administrator and the district health officers have been instructed to issue the salary of July only after all doctors submit their declaration certificates,“ said Shalini Rajneesh, principal secretary , health and family welfare department.
 
 On June 6, the government issued a circular asking government doctors to submit a self-declaration letter, stating they wouldn't prescribe patients drugs from outside.
 
 In early July, the government dismissed two doctors working with a Koratagere hospital for giving prescriptions to patients to buy drugs from pharmacies outside the hospital. It was alleged that the doctors did so even though the medicines were available at the hospital pharmacy.
 
 Doctors point to lapses in system
 
 The ultimatum, though, has made the   Medical Officers' Association (KGMOA) angry.
 
 The association, which says salary is doctors' basic right and that they are public servants, shot off a letter to the health minister and the government demanding a high-level committee be formed to look into the matter.
 
 There are over 4,500 doctors working in the health and family welfare department, who are members of KGMOA and most of them haven't signed the declaration, said a KGOA spokesperson. “We won't sign such a declaration because in crucial circumstances patients may have to be asked to procure drugs from elsewhere and that has to be left to their discretion. If we sign a declaration now, we'd be in trouble later and it may be considered an offence,“ the spokesperson said.
 
