The   in Kothrud are quite distinctive. They stand apart from others in the neighbourhood as they reside within what seems like the carcass of a   — in sharp juxtaposition to a mammoth structure being constructed next to it. The family is not daunted by it or its  . This is simply their address.

 Hemant Sharma leads us through the under-construction site and points at the half-broken building at the back — his abode is on the second floor, which is just about holding its own. All the walls have been sliced off, the slabs punctured and the staircase leading up full of rubble. Theirs is the only flat in the broken down structure which is intact, although cracks on their walls and beams are a clear indication of the ruthless manner in which other houses were torn down.
 
 The Sharmas — Hemant (42), Deepali (40) and their son Venkatesh (18) — reside in what once used to be  , home to 40 families.
 
 That is before a developer took the building over for redevelopment, promising all the residents larger flats. While 39 families vacated and moved away in 2013, the Sharmas stayed on as they were bound by a court order.
 
 
  
 Theirs is a tale of an obdurate struggle, now entering its fourth year. The family, which survives on Hemant’s not-too-profitable printing business, rented houses in the building for over a decade. In 2007, when one of the owners wanted to sell the flat, the Sharmas pounced at the opportunity as they were comfortable here. However, they did not have the funds to buy the house, priced at Rs 5.5 lakh. So, they approached near and dear ones for a loan.
 
 If Deepali Sharma is to be believed, her brother- in-law Naresh Late, offered to help them, provided the sale agreement was in his name. “It was decided that once we square off the loan, the flat would get transferred in my name. Till then, we would be able to live in the house,” said Deepali, who helps her husband in his business that largely involves getting orders to print stationery and cards.
 
 All was well, till in 2011, when Late allegedly started telling them to vacate the house. This resulted in the two sides trading allegations on one another, with both parties being summoned to the local police station ever so often. Late claimed that the Sharmas were given the house on leave and licence basis and refusing to vacate after their term was over. The Sharmas on the other alleged that Late was merely a relative who had helped them with a loan to buy the house and was now getting greedy as real estate prices had shot up. During one of these visits to Kothrud police station, where almost every cop knows about the case, the two sides were told to reach a settlement. The Sharmas claim that Late agreed to transfer the house to them by 2012 provided they paid him in full and the agreement was notarised. A copy was submitted to the police station. Months later, the ‘agreement’ was not honoured, leading to fresh round of allegations and counter allegations.
 
 In 2013, Late moved the small causes court in Pune seeking his house back. He told the court that the house was given to the Sharmas on rent and that they were refusing to vacate it. He appealed to the court to help him get his house back. The Sharmas retaliated and filed a case in the Pune Civil Court, Senior Division, claiming that Late should be told to transfer the flat in their name. They alleged that Late had taken a large part of the loan back and yet was not honouring his word. Both the cases are still pending in courts. However, the civil court, in April 2014, ordered that the Sharmas cannot be evicted from the house. “The defendants (Naresh Late) and their agents are hereby temporarily restrained from obstructing the plaintiff’s (Deepali Sharma) possession in the suit property with due process of law till final decision of the suit,” civil judge S S Nagur ordered on April 10, 2014.
 
 This order has ensured that the Sharmas continue to live in their house, despite the demolition. Ever since the litigations began, the family has witnessed 20 flats in one of the wings of the housing society being demolished, making way for a new structure. Nineteen flats in their wing, too , have been taken down. All that remains is the skeletal structure that just about holds their house.
 
 In the last three years, the family claims to have survived death threats, assaults from the developer’s men and incessant stomping on the floor above, among other disturbances. But, they are not willing to give up just yet. In their battle, they have taken on IRIS Construction, the developer, and filed multiple complaints with the   (PMC). Most officials at PMC easily recognise the family, thanks to their frequent visits here, with complaints against sanctioning plans and the ongoing redevelopment. The family has alleged that the developers got plans sanctioned from PMC without revealing that one of the flats could not be disturbed, owing to a civil court order. The civic body has issued stop work notices twice, the latest being in September 2016. On both the occasions, the developers have been able to get the notices stayed from courts.
 
 Through the duel between the Sharmas and Late, the 39 families who used to reside in the building have tried stepping in by approaching the civil court, arguing that through this dispute the redevelopment was getting severely affected. Till the Sharmas do not vacate, the second wing cannot be brought down and construction of the new building cannot proceed as planned. The court, however, found no merit in their claim. The residents then approached Bombay High Court, which also dismissed their petition.
 
 With the litigations raging, all the concerned parties can do nothing but wait for a final decision. “Only teh courts can decide our fate. We have been through a lot in the last three years, but have decided not to give up, come what may. It can’t get worse than this,” said Hemant Sharma, pointing at his verandah which resembles a wartorn structure.
 
 When Mirror contacted Rajendra Dixit, of Iris Construction, he said, “As far as we are concerned, the Sharmas are living on leave and licence basis in the building which has been taken over for redevelopment. We had offered them a flat in another area when the construction started at the site, which they refused. The matter is now in court and we are waiting for the final orders. Theirs is the last flat remaining in the building and till it stands there, we cannot complete the project. The Sharmas have been filing complaints against us with PMC and misguiding the civic officials. Despite two stop-work notices, both of which have been set aside, we have continued work on the project.”
 
 
  
 
 PMC’s additional municipal commissioner Rajendra Jagtap, said, “I am aware of this case and had tried to settle the matter, which has been going on for the last two years, when both the parties arrived at the PMC Lokshahi Din. Some months back, we had issued the developers a stop-work notice.”
 
 When queried on the matter, senior police inspector Raghunath Phuge, at Kothrud police station, said, “This case is an old one and there are cross complaints from both parties lodged at the Kothrud police station. We have not made any arrests yet as the court has yet to table a conclusive report.”
 
 Only courts can decide our fate. We have been through a lot in the last three years but have decided not to give up, come what may. It can’t get worse than this
 
 — Hemant Sharma
 
