SILIGURI: The fissures are deepening. Even as chief minister Mamata Banerjee held the second round of talks with the Hills parties on Tuesday, the most dominant pro-Gorkhaland force in Darjeeling spoke in two voices.
GJM president Bimal Gurung released an audio message, on predictable lines, disagreeing with the 17-point charter of demands handed over to the CM. Gurung insisted that the indefinite strike would continue till tripartite talks are held. He also indicated that he was keeping in touch with the Centre.
 
 But his own party leaders, GJM MLAs   and Sarita Rai along with Kalimpong Municipality chairperson Subhro Pradhan, chose to sit alongside expelled leader Binay  's seven-member delegation at Tuesday's meeting at Uttarkanya. GJM central committee member R B Bhujel, too, attended the meeting. The rival faction claimed him to be their own representative.
 
 Tamang -who had been ousted by Bimal Gurung from the party a couple of weeks ago -signed the charter of demands on Tuesday as the GJM chief coordinator.Speaking to reporters, he named the MLAs and Gurung faction leaders -along with his own -as part of the GJM delegation.
 
 Rai, interestingly, had airdashed to the meeting from Kolkata early this mor ning even after insisting on a formal invite by the Mamata Banerjee government till the night before. The formal invite never came.
 
 Asked by reporters on the fissures within the party, Rai said, "Have you seen a family in which the father doesn't have differences with his son? Or a brother disagreeing with a brother? This is all within the family and will be sorted out accordingly."
 
 Tamang refused to speak on the issue.
 
 According to sources, the GJM chief appears to be speaking -and acting -alone."On the run fearing arrest, he is finding it hard to coordinate with party leaders. He apprehends his cell phone is being tracked and is using only close confidants to send out sporadic audio-taped messages to the media. This is creating a void when the party is grappling to find a way forward to continue the agitation which is creating enormous hardships to the people," a leader said, requesting anonymity.
 
 Tamang, aware of this predicament, has been repeatedly asking Gurung to appear in public and lead the agitation. At the same time, he has been adopting a hardline pro-Gorkhaland stance.
 
 "It is now very clear that the Centre is reluctant to step into the Darjeeling muddle due to its internal and national compulsions.The CM on Tuesday made it clear that GTA, which held the three stakeholders together, was non-existent now. It is completely on the state to call for the tripartite meeting. This he (Gurung) fails to understand. And this is the reason why the fissures are deepening," said another senior GJM leader, refusing to be quoted.
 
