NAGPUR: The annual art   at   was inaugurated at the college campus by Nago Ganar, MLC, on Thursday. The exhibition showcases works of all 300 students of the college from four departments and attracts footfalls with patrons of art, parents and corporates visiting it.

 This year in exhibition are 2,000 art works which have been selected from all the work done by students. “There are various mediums like acrylic, water colours and oil used as these are part of the submissions made by students,” said faculty member Kishor Ingle. Most of the paintings depict the thoughts and expressions of students. The college runs four separate departments which include painting, applied arts, photography and art teachers’ diploma. The sculpture department of the college was shut down last year. “This exhibition gives a glimpse of the talent of students and many of the works are sold too,” Ingle said.
 
 Excited by the prospects of their work being seen and judged by people, the students themselves display their art imaginatively. “We wait for the entire year for this exhibition as the best of the works are shown here,” said Priya Ronghe, a first year student of  . “It is a very enriching experience for us as people come and discuss these works and provide us with insights. There are many buyers too and that’s encouraging,” adds Samruddhi Chepe.
 
 The exhibition is part of the display done to train students in putting up exhibitions of art work. “Fine arts as a career has increasingly become very promising as there are loads of opportunities in fields like advertising, photography and art,” said Rajashri Pophle, a final year BFA student.
 
  “There are more patrons of art now as the trend is again reversing from digital paintings to handmade ones,” said Vishal Peshne, another art student. “Art reflects the trends in the society and here we learn much more about life. This is a preferred stream now as people have begun to appreciate art,” he added.
 
 Awards were given to top three students in each stream besides five certificates and sponsor prizes.
 
 
