GORAKHPUR: 
    on Sunday urged the people help him 
  and hinted at strong measures to ensure law and order.

 "For the past few years   has been defined as a state from whose boundaries begins darkness, from where the pot-holed roads begin and the place from where the women start to feel insecure. I was to break this mindset," he said, and added that he wants to make UP a place, where women feel safe and secure.
 
 Adityanath said, "I would like to assure that in the next two months, people would come to know how a state government should work. I have got an opportunity to clean-up the mess (kachdaa saaf karne kaa maukaa milaa hai), and I will do it."
 
 The UP chief minister gave out a stern message to the anti-social elements and criminals in the state.
 
 "There is no place for those who give patronage to the goonda elements, mafia, criminal and other rogue elements. They have the option of leaving UP or else they would land in places designated for them (jails)," he said, while hinting at massive revamping of law and order.
 
 Underscoring 
  , the   also said people who were prepared to work for 18-20 hours a day are "most welcome" to join him, the rest are free to leave.
 
 "Time has come that we should work 18-20 hours a day. There no time for any entertainment (mauj masti)," he said.
 
 The   also advised his ministers that they should be accessible to the public. "The doors of your house and office must remain open to the public. This would ensure that the government is able to reach to the last person of the society. No one would go to bed empty stomach and money would not be a constraint in marriage of any girl," he said.
 
 Referring to the acid attack on a woman from Rae Bareli, the UP CM said, "The officials are working on 'puraanaa dharraa' (old style). I went to KGMU to inquire about the well-being of the woman and gave them ultimatum that everything must be done in the next couple of hours."
 
 CM Adityanath also talked about people committing electricity theft facing the music. "The situation has already improved in Gorakhpur and it would soon improve in the state as well," he said.
 
 "If you find any discrepancy or anomaly, just message me the relevant details. I will ensure action," he said.
 
