BENGALURU: In a move that could increase visibility of the ruling Congress at grass-roots level in the run-up to the 2018  ,   have been given power to select beneficiaries for the  . Under this scheme,   is given to people for purchasing cows and other cattle. 

 Chief minister Siddaramaiah decided to tweak the execution part of the scheme as legislators have been complaining that they have ceased to be the central characters in the populist programmes. The move could help them overcome the identity crisis they face in their respective constituencies. 
 
 "MLAs have been demanding power to identify beneficiaries and the issue also figured in the last Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting. Committees headed by legislators will be formed," animal husbandry minister A Manju said.
 
 The Pashu Bhagya scheme, which was rolled out in 2015-16, had benefitted 15,748 people from across the state. While 10,111 persons were given funds to buy cows and buffaloes, 4,784 got to procure sheep and goats and 853 were allotted funds to start piggeries. The scheme became popular in rural areas and in Bengaluru as there's transparency in identifying beneficiaries. 
 
 While the government gives 25% subsidy to the general category, it is 50 % to Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST). The beneficiaries were identified by committees headed by respective deputy commissioners in the districts. 
 
 "We want people to come to us seeking financial assistance under Pashu Bhagya instead of going to officials. This programme will help us connect with the beneficiaries and consolidate our votebanks. This was communicated to the CM," a Congress MLA said. 
 
 In fact, pressure from the MLAs had delayed implementation of the programme in 2016-17. "This year, we had decided to roll out the programme to 22,129 beneficiaries and Rs 49.38 crore had been earmarked for distribution. But MLAs want the selection and distribution rights as they see electoral gains. They would favour their aides," sources in the animal husbandry department said.
 
 Sources feared that the Pashu Bhagya scheme might end up like the Ashraya Scheme of the 1990s when MLAs became powerful as they were given powers to distribute houses for the poor.
 
 Manju said steps will be taken to curb corruption and favouritism in the implementation of the project. The committee headed by the MLA will also have five other members from different communities, the minister added.
 
 
 
