Her crusade for  , especially for  , has won 14-year-old   from Bengaluru the  . The award was given away last week by  , Duke of Cambridge and Prince Harry at the St Jame's Palace, UK.

 In December 2015, Nikhiya realized there are many children who do not have access to basic school supplies.Often entire classrooms of children share a single textbook, and many walk barefoot to school. While more children were attending school, she heard stories of bright young students dropping out because of poor educational foundation.
 
 Yearn to Learn, the project spearheaded by Nikhiya, has, so far, set up 15 science laboratories which are benefiting 3,500 students from various schools. Nikhiya started her e-commerce website ­ http:www.knicnacs.com -to raise funds for her laboratory projects. Recently , she also funded the education of 25 blind children.
 
 Inspired by Diana's words -“Carry out a random act of kindness, with no expectation of reward, safe in the knowledge that one day someone might do the same for you“ ­ the award, which marks 20 years since her death, recognizes young students who have socially impacted people through their actions. The award identified 20 winners as legacies of the princess.
 
 Nikhiya was the only Indian among 20 winners rep resenting countries like the United Arab Emirates, UK, US, Canada, Belize, among others. This year, 12,000 social changemakers were nominated for the award. “The award has strengthened my believe in my project, giving me the confidence that I am doing the right thing,“ said Nikhiya.“The benefit of this recognition is that a lot more people would now be interested and serious about the cause I'm working towards.“
 
 Asked why she was so keen on bringing about a change in the education space, the teen said: “Because it is the single most important solution to all our issues.“ Meeting the royal family was a unique experience for Nikhiya, who wasn't quite expecting the award.
 
 “The royal family was extremely encouraging and gave us the confidence that we were doing the right thing and keeping alive Princess Diana's tradition,“ she said, adding, “None of this would have been possible without the support of my parents and my school (Greenwood High).“
 
 Her father Dr Shahid Shamsher, a trichologist, said: “We want her to follow the path she desires. She has this innate sense of responsibility and always keeps herself occupied and we know that she'll go a long way.“
 
 Added Niru Agarwal, trustee, Greenwood High: “At a tender age like hers, to think about the welfare and education of the downtrodden and selflessly work for it is noteworthy . She is a role model to her peers. Her qualities of kindness, compassion and service are truly admirable.“
 
 In addition to the Diana Legacy Award, Nikhiya's photo with information on her projects and services have been hosted at an exhibition at Althorp House, the final resting place of Princess Diana. Bengaluru
 
 THE GLOBAL INCLUSION AWARD
 
 Nikhiya was the sole winner from India at the Global Inclusion Awards, held in Berlin on May 3. She was chosen from among other contenders for the Global Winner of the Outstanding Youth Economic Citizenship Award 2017. The event was hosted by Germany's G20 Presidency and Child and Youth Finance International, Germany.
 
