KOLHAPUR: Traders who fail to attend hearings called by the   to assess the local body tax (LBT) paid between 2011-15 will be facing strict action, warned municipal commissioner P   on Friday.

 The civic administration issued notices to traders stating that the deadline for assessment of the tax paid or unpaid for the year 2011 ends in March this year. Owing to the opposition to the tax system, many traders didn't pay the tax in the initial period of its implementation. The government has asked civic bodies to assess the tax paid and evaded by traders during the implementation period of 2011-15 and recover the dues. 
 
 The LBT was one of the major sources of revenue for the civic bodies and officials say that the civic body cannot afford to write this tax off. 
 
 Ram Katkar, LBT officer of   said, “We have called traders for hearings in which the assessment is done in front of them and documents are demanded to prove claims. Many are reluctant to pay the dues and therefore do not want to provide these documents. If the traders fail to turn up for the hearings the civic chief has the authority to decide the due amount and notices will be directly issued to pay to them and thereafter no negotiations will be held to lower the amount that is due.”
 
 The KMC has categorised the traders based on their annual turnover and accordingly the officials are appointed to conduct hearings of over 20,000 traders. For instance the hearings of the traders with over a turnover of Rs 1 crore will have to depose before the municipal commissioner who has now delegated the powers related to hearings to the assistant commissioner,  . 
 
 The civic body lost over Rs 100 crore due to traders’ fierce opposition to the tax during 2011-13. 
 
 "The government has launched an Abhay Scheme. If the traders apply for the scheme he or she gets a concession over the due amount. However, since the assessment is slowed down after the traders are not turning up for the hearings, they may lose the chance to benefit from this scheme," said Katkar. 
 
