NEW DELHI/TRICHY/MADURAI: The month-long protest of Tamil Nadu   in Delhi reached its peak on Monday with three farmers protesting naked outside the prime minister’s office in south block. The farmers, Saravanakumar Vasudevan, 32 from Srirangapuram in Theni, Ramalingam, 38 from Veerapur in Trichy and Palanivel, 59 from Kulithalai in Karur, protested in the nude after jumping off a police vehicle outside   in the afternoon.

 Delhi police arrested the three and released them in the evening. The protest was the result of farmers being denied permission to meet either the prime minister or higher officials in the PMO which they have been demanding. “As the officials had assured us, nine farmers including me went to the PMO to submit our petition this morning. However, the security personnel denied permission to all except one person. After we entered the office, we were also told to give the petition to a lower level officer instead of higher officials. The frustration forced three of our farmers to strip themselves and protest naked,” farmer leader P Ayyakannu told TOI over phone.
 
 Jantar Mantar in Delhi had turned out to be the hotspot of a series of protests by Ayyakannu and 150 farmers from the state for the past 28 days. They have been pressing for demands like Rs 40,000 crore drought relief from the Union government to Tamil Nadu and waiver of crop loan to all farmers due to the continuous drought in the state. 
 
 The farmers’ protest in the capital had gained national attention with support pouring from political leaders of all hues including   vice-resident Rahul Gandhi who met them to extended his support. Yet, there was no reaction from Prime Minister Narendra Modi which the farmers have been seeking. “The prime minister should listen to our demand and rid the farmers in Tamil Nadu of their troubles. Our protest will continue until then,” said Ayyakannu.
 
 Meanwhile, leaders lashed out at the Centre and the prime minister for forcing the farmers to protest in the nude. “The farmers were forced to protest naked after the prime minister refused to meet them.   strongly condemns the refusal of the Union government and prime minister to listen to their demands,” said CPM state secretary G Ramakrishnan. 
 
  of India also condemned the alleged neglect of the farmers’ protest in Delhi by the prime minister. Former state secretary of the party D Pandian said, “The farmers are losing considerable cultivable land due to various reasons including drought. Agriculture is their livelihood. They want to represent their grievances to the government and get them solved. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is not heeding it, which is condemnable,” Pandian said.
 
