KOLKATA: The   (NGT) order that has banned dumping of garbage within half a kilometre of Ganga is most relevant for Kolkata and Howrah, say green activists and river experts, as untreated municipal waste discharged into the Hooghly makes it the most polluted stretch in its course.

 The river that is visibly cleaner at Farakka in Malda, aro ner at Farakka in und 560km upstream of   where it drains into the  , turns murky gray around   and impervious when it flows by Kidderpore.
 
 Activist Subhas Datta, who was a member of the Calcutta high court-appointed Hooghly water monitoring committee and currently has multiple petitions on the river at the NGT's eastern bench, says that while the pollution mostly happens after Nabadwip, canals that open out in North and South 24 Parganas, Kolkata and Howrah make the river toxic with high concentration of coliform bacteria and low levels of oxygen saturation.
 
 The HC panel had proposed a 100-metre no-plastic zone on either side of the river and urged civic bodies to implement it. But there were no takers. "The NGT order talks of Rs 50,000 fine on pollutors. The provision of fine was there earlier too. But no civic body was willing to implement it. In fact, several municipalities, including KMC and HMC, are themselves offenders as they dump untreated waste into the river," said former environment department law officer  , who was also a member of the panel.
 
 The state government's cold shoulder to the Nirmal Bharat project due to its ongoing feud with Narendra Modi at the Centre hasn't helped matters. While municipalities in other states have used central funds to set up toilets, open defecation along the banks of Hooghly continues to be a major source of pollution. An estimated 20% of Kolkata and Howrah's population defecate on the banks. Add to that open defecation by five lakh brick kiln and jute mill workers.
 
 At its worst in Bengal, the river contains 1,60,000 faecalcoli form bacteria per 100ml, a clear sign of human excreta (WHO puts the safe limit at 1,000 per 100ml). The worst stretch is between Dakshineshwar and Diamond Harbour where the le velofcoliform bacteria is over 100,000 per 100ml.
 
 "Untreated sewerage is the biggest problem," said Kalyan Rudra, river expert and chairman of  . "It accounts for about 85% of the pollution with industrial heavy metals, pesticides from agriculture, solid waste and carcasses contributing the rest," he said.
 
 Rudra also admitted that non-point sources like pesticide, open defecation and burning ghat waste that NGT had talked about in its order was yet to be estimated in Bengal. "Of the 54 nullahs that are there, 20 carry 85-90% of the load. The PCB monitors them. But there are many other sources from where pollutants flow unhindered into the river," said Rudra.
 
 As the river flows through Murshidabad, Nadia, Burdwan, Hooghly , North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Kolkata and South 24 Parganas, the 41civic bodies dump huge quantities of sewage into the river. In most municipalities, the sewage treatment plant does not function properly. "At no place does the STP machine function at 30% capacity. Of course, in most places, there are still no sewage lines, " he says.
 
 
 
 
 Every government agency should implement the NGT order in both letter and spirit.The Ganges has been polluted, some would say beyond redemption, but we need to make a start somewhere. And Thursday's NGT directives seem a good enough point to start.
 
