BENGALURU: Chief minister  's strategy of sewing up a rainbow coalition by wooing major caste Lingayats, is seen by political observers as one of the biggest attempts at social engineering in recent years in Karnataka.
Shedding his long-standing image as an Ahinda (Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits) leader, Siddaramaiah is now looking to emerge as the ALhinda (Kannada acronym for minorities, Lingayats, backward classes and Dalits) champion, ahead of the 2018 assembly poll.
 
 Siddaramaiah's announcement that he is ready to recommend to the Centre to grant independent religion status to Lingayats, provided they petition him, seems to have caught the attention of a sizable section of the community, and has gone in his favour for the moment.
 
 In fact, the Congress' gain is the BJP's loss. The   had emerged the champion of the community after prominent Lingayat chief minister Veerendra Patil of the   was sacked by former PM Rajiv Gandhi in 1990. The BJP itself has been using social engineering effectively in the past two decades, and seen a meteoric rise ­ from winning two   seats in Karnataka in 1991 to taking the reins of power in 2008.
 
 This caste consolidation was further strengthened when in the 1994 assembly election, H D Deve Gowda, a Vokkaliga, S R Bommai, a Lingayat, and Ramakrishna Hegde, a Brahmin, fought unitedly and came to power as the Janata Dal, when the BJP also secured 40 assembly seats.
 
 The Lingayat factor was exploited by B S Yeddyurappa, who became Karnataka's first BJP chief minister in 2008, flourishing on the sentiment that the Janata Dal (S), which he had allied with to form the government, had ditched the community leader.
 
 
 
 
 The Congress, which successfully rode the BMW (Backwards, Muslim and Weaker sections) vote in the state for a long time till 2004, failed in its later attempts till Siddaramaiah, a newcomer to the party, set off a social churning with the Ahinda agenda ahead of the 2013 assembly poll, taking a cue from his 'political guru' D Devaraj Urs.
 
 The JD(S), however, has not been able to tweak the caste calculus to its advantage and work beyond its staunch support group of Vokkaligas.
 
 "Siddaramaiah's renewed strategy has come in the backdrop of growing apprehension among Congress leaders that it is difficult to retain power without the support of the major community of Lingayats or Vokkaligas, in the face of strong anti-incumbency ahead of the 2018 poll,'' said Harish Ramaswamy, a political analyst.
 
 While Siddaramaiah's move is being hailed as a masterstroke, political observers feel he will not be able to convert the emotive religious issue into votes in substantial numbers, especially in North Karnataka, and that his strategy is doomed, going by the community's voting pattern in the past two-and-half decades.
 
 “The Congress would need to do much more to woo the community,'' said political analyst Sandeep Shastri, indicating that Siddaramaiah had ignored the community for four years. Going by recent history , Lingayats have accepted Brahmins as leaders, but none from the other communities.
 
 Agreeing with him, a prominent Lingayat legislator, who is part of the All India Veerashaiva Mahasabha, added that several factors may not work in the party's favour.They include disillusionment of the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community towards the grand old party , and the community losing a sense of belonging with the Congress since the party has done more damage than good, he added.
 
 "There is genuine aspiration among the sub-sects of Banajiga and Hugar among others, as they have been victims of social discrimination within the community for decades. But politically, the community is well-informed and is not likely to get carried away by Siddaramaiah's rhetoric on religion. They know how to make a distinction between religion and politics," he claimed.
 
 
 
 
 Some researchers point out that the demand for a separate religion may not hold much water since the community is strongly influenced by Panchapeeta -a set of five prominent Lingayat monasteries including Balehonnur and Ujjini in Karnataka, Kedar in Uttarakhand, Srisailam in  , Kashi or Banaras in Uttar Pradesh. They have been strong proponents of Veerashaivism and nearly 40%-50% of people from the community, including those from the creamy layer, are their followers.
 
 These mutts are also seen as custodians of the Veerashaiva-Lingayat religion as they run a large number of educational institutions and hospitals, besides daily dasoha (free meals) for the poor.
 
 The followers of 12th century social reformer Basavanna, who are now demanding a separate faith tag for Lingayats, are relatively backward and may not be able to keep the movement going on their own, though they now have the backing of relatively weak mutts including Moorusavira mutt in Hubballi and Tontadarya math in Gadag, called the Virakta mutts. The Constitution and judiciary also do not provide legal sanctity to the Lingayats' demand.
 
 Apparently, there seems to be a split between Veerashaivas and Lingayats for the first time with the latter claiming they are different, Veerashaivas worship Shiva as god and follow Vedic principles, while Lingayats worship Ishtalinga which is his formless state, as advocated by Basavanna.
 
 "Earlier, several religious leaders had raised the issue with the government through the Akhila Bharatiya Veerashaiva Mahasabha seeking religion tag for the Veerashaiva-Lingayat combine but now Lingayats might get isolated over political reasons," said Vinay Patil, a research student on saint-philosophers at Karnataka University, Dharwad.
 
 Prof. Chidananda Murthy , a historian from Karnataka, argues that there is no difference between Veerashaivas and Lingayats, and that Basavanna himself had said he was proud to be a Shaivite. Sri Tontadarya mutt seer of Gadag, a proponent of a separate religion for Lingayats, said the sects follow different philosophies. "Veerashaivas don't accept Basavanna as their guru, but Lingayats do," he added.
 
