PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The construction of the   project will begin next week on the   route. 

 Brijesh Dixit, managing director of MahaMetro, said the work order for the metro project was issued last week. 
 
 “The work will begin near Nashik Phata chowk on Pune-Mumbai highway. Later, work will start at four places. These are near Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation ( ) main building, near Dapodi where the metro crosses the Mula river, a little ahead where it will cross the railway tracks and in  .”
 
 “We will take clearances from the traffic police this week. We will also discuss it with the civic body,” Dixit said. The metro had written to PCMC in January 2017 seeking permission to erect pillars for the metro near the footpath of Pune-Mumbai highway. 
 
 But the PCMC suggested that the pillars be constructed on the two-metre wide divider/ median between the concrete lanes and Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) lane of the highway. Mahametro had agreed to this suggestion in April and PCMC was to give a formal approval to it later.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Ramnath Subramaniam, executive director strategic planning, MahaMetro said, “We had invited the bids for this project in February 2017 and finalized the contractor now. The work on the stretch of 10.3 km from PCMC main office building in Pimpri to Range Hills depot near   in Shivajinagar will be conducted in the first phase at a cost of Rs 500 crore. We need only 2.5m wide area of the road for constructing the pillars over which the metro will run.”
 
 He said work will be conducted in a 2km stretch at one time. “We will need 4.5m width on both sides of the actual metro corridor of 2.5m width when we are doing the construction work. So vehicular traffic on around 9m width of the road will be affected for this particular stretch. Once the work is completed we will free up the 4.5m wide area on both sides for vehicular traffic. The segments will be prepared at the casting yard which will be located in an area around 4 to 5km away from the metro route. The segments will be transported and put on the pillars with the help of cranes. The average distance between two pillars will be 23m.”
 
