BENGALURU: With the   (CBSE) and the Indian School Certificate (ISC) boards rescheduling their annual examinations this year due to upcoming elections in five states, Class 12 students are the worst hit. Entrance tests for professional courses are very close to the board examinations, leaving little time for preparation.

 The offline test for the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE Main) is on April 2 and the online test is on April 8 and 9.CBSE Class 12 and ISC students appearing for JEE will continue writing their boards even after the JEE is over. While the last examination under CBSE for Class 12 is April 29, the ISC examinations conclude on April 26.
 
 “All my science papers will be over a few days before the JEE, but it's still cutting it fine,“ said Arushi Mano har, who is appearing for ISC exams this year.
 
 Then there is the Common Entrance Test for admission to engineering colleges in Karnataka on May 2 and 3, the   (NATA) on April 16, the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for medical courses on May 7 and the   (CLAT) on May 14. G Sridhar, managing director, Deeksha Network, said, “Entrance tests should follow the end-of-April schedule. Now that the board exams have been rescheduled, it's a bit worrisome as they are, in essence, complete opposites. The entrance test will not be anything like the board exams.“ Subham V has devised a plan. “I've been preparing for NEET since last year and am quite confident about cracking it.The schedule is quite unrealistic, especially for those who are appearing for the JEE. But we'll have to figure it out,“ he said.
 
 The computer science exam for CBSE students is on March 27, the last exam in that schedule if it is an optional subject. In this case, students are left with five days to rush through a final revision for the IIT JEE Main.Those who opted for biology will have to answer that paper on April 5,“ said P Srinivasa Sastry , head of department, academics, BASE.
 
 “Students have to take the   during the CBSE exams. In both cases, a JEE candidate will be stressed out because the exams are so close,“ he added. However, PU students will have the shortest board exams as they begin on March 9 and end on March 27.
 
