Ahmedabad: With the cash-starved days post demonetization over, prices of vegetables are again shooting up, and the brief reprieve citizens had from high vegetable prices are at an end. In the last 15 days, prices of many vegetables have more than doubled barring that of potato and onion.

 In retail markets and shops in Satellite area, except potatoes and onions, no other vegetable is available at rates below Rs 50 per kg. While in Agriculture Produce Market Committee, (APMC), Ahmedabad, brinjal is selling somewhere between Rs8-Rs16 per kg in wholesale, the same is selling in retail at Rs 60 per kg in city localities.
 
 The prices of vegetables at APMC have gone up by around 15%, while in retail the prices have almost doubled. Officials from APMC said that all vegetables, except potatoes and onions, are in short supply.
 
 According to Gujarat agriculture department, the sowing of vegetables, which was normally done across 1.24 lakh hectares was done only across 82,000 hectares. The department however claims that the sowing of vegetable was around 9,000 hectares more than that in last year.
 
 Prices of several vegetables had crossed the Rs 100 mark in retail market in 2016, but had eased after demonetization.
 
 Agriculture minister, Chiman Sapariya, however, said, “The shortfall in sowing has no relation with demonetization. The sowing was delayed because there was less rainfall in 2016, and hence farmers moved away from vegetable to crops that needed less water.”
 
 “We hope that prices will likely come down within the next fortnight when the summer crop starts to arrive. The prices are generally on the higher side during this period,” said D M Patel, secretary, APMC, Ahmedabad. 
 
 Patel said, “During demonetization, bulk buyers were away from the market. As a result, farmers were forced to sell their produce at throwaway prices. But now the market has stabilized.”
 
 APMC officials said that supply of potato to the APMC each day was 370 kg more than what is normal at this time of the year, and the supply of onion is 415 kg more than expected, daily.
 
 
