LUCKNOW: Twelve days after taking over as UP  ,   inducted the first bureaucrat to his secretariat on Friday.  , a 2003 batch civil servant who served as special   to former CM  , returned to the CMO as special secretary to the chief minister. 

 Samphael has also been appointed additional chief project officer to the World Bank Tourism projects and additional managing director at State Innovations in Family Planing Services Agency (SIFPSA), an affiliate organization under the department of health. 
 
 In the previous SP and BSP regimes in UP, the bureaucracy has typically been the first to face the heat following a change in the political guard. In the Mulayam Singh Yadav government in 2004, officers believed to be close to BSP chief Mayawati were moved to less significant posts. Mayawati returned the favour when she came to power in 2007, placing under suspension officers like Sanjiv Saran and Rakesh Bahadur, who wielded clout in the Mulayam government. When Akhilesh came to power in 2012, the trend continued when bureaucrats like Kunwer Fateh Bahadur and Vijay Shankar Pandey, once among the most powerful in the previous BSP government, were given punishment postings.
 
 Samphael’s return to the CMO on Friday, however, suggests that the incumbent CM is willing to buck the trend his predecessors created. The appointment also came hours after the CM said his government was committed to acting against corruption. On Friday, a government spokesperson said the CM had advised his ministers to appoint honest and hard working officers at proper places to provide a corruption free and transparent administration.
 
 In his previous stint in the Akhilesh secretariat, Samphael was primarily responsible for rolling out the government’s mSehat programme, a health initiative under which frontline health workers were provided hand-held mobile devices to collect health data instead of maintaining manual records. Samphael was also in charge of disbursals from the CM’s discretionary funds.
 
 
