A popular saying goes, ‘in life of all the paths and   you take, make sure a few of them are ‘dirt’. Well, Mumbaiites are taking that a notch further with a little history, adventure, food and sport rolled into it, too. In a growing trend, people are embarking on special themed trails and   after their favourite hobbies. Do you love history? There’s a 17th century walk for you! Food aficionado? Grab the forks and embark on an East Indian or Parsi food adventure. These activities may also be just the answer if you’re fed up of the usual weekend movie or dinner–on–the block. Here’s what’s folks are trying...

 Mumbai has seen a host of interesting walks in and around its quaint roads and nooks. And there’s a whole lot of learning, too! Asks tour founder Bharat Gothoskar, “Did you know there is a place called Queen’s Way in Parel, which has monuments from the 5th century? In Gamdevi, there is a ‘second’ Gateway of India, a smaller stone replica of the original; it was after this was made that they erected the main monument. Not many know that there is a 2.5 acre vegetable farm right in the midst of the city. We see it on the Lalbaug walk. And in Byculla, you can see a 66 million-year-old solidified lava flow!” For those on the go, there is an open jeep ‘urban safari’ that covers more area and gives a bird’s eye-view from a jeep.
  The Queen of the Suburbs also has a walk dedicated to her. Says organiser Regan Rodricks, “Bandra is not just about Bollywood, there is so much more to it, when it comes to art and culture.” The tour here starts at the fort and moves to   and towards the gauthan (village) area where the East Indian heritage lies.
  City-based art and history aficionado Aadil Desai has done a  , very popular with foreigners. “It starts from Teen Batti, Walkeshwar, and goes through the perimeter of the tank area that has so many temples around it. People walk around, soak in the ambience and stop to admire the tall deepstambhs or pillars at the edge, which look beautiful,” he says.
 
 
  
  
 Increasing awareness of cycling as a way to a fitter lifestyle is prompting folks to get onto a bike and go pedal-pushing. Nita Vikashi who has been going on an Aarey cycle ride every Sunday morning for three years, says, “The area is a green belt and has no traffic on Sunday morning. We ride past the 
 or little hamlets, lakeside and it’s lanes and its just gorgeous.” 
  And midnight is not just for snacking as nocturnal cycling trails are big, too. Amit Bhadoria who started such a ride says, “We do this every weekend. The city is so different at night — for one it’s less crowded and people like the timing as they have more time once they are done with dinner.” The group starts from Regal Cinema, towards  , Worli Sea Face and   and finally ends at Bandstand with a half an hour and some cutting chai in between. “You’ll be surprised at how many take part, right from the age 9 to 70 years,” he says, adding, “This weekend, a senior citizens group is 
 coming up, so it’s age no bar,” he smiles.
 
 
  
  
 
 Day-long trails in and around Matheran and night treks near Kothligad and Garbett plateau (near Matheran) are popular on the agenda. “We leave late on Saturday night and are back on Sunday afternoon,” says Bhadoria. “Not just this, there are also butterfly spotting treks, moonlight treks with a campfire and more. Says Ritish Mehta, “I had been on a trek to Bhivpuri Falls from Karjat and it was most picturesque.” The adventurous-minded can embark on a trek to Lohagad Fort close to a small village called Malawali, off Lonavala. There are also treks to Mahuli Fort that start from near Asangaon and the national park. 
 
 
  
  
 Let your appetite and feet take you into green Neral for this one. A ‘village fishing experience’ lets Mumbaiites try fishing, rural style. “We do this with bamboo rods, strings and hooks in the little ponds there; it’s a load of fun,” says Rodericks. “You walk about a farm and then sit down to enjoy traditional Maharashtrian 
 , rice, fried fish and 
 .” 
 
 
  
  
 It’s said that the best way to get to know a city is through its palate. And if you’ve got your ear to the ground you will read about the various interesting food walks that have been on the rise in Mumbai. Says Mohit Balachandran, “These food tours do everything — from bringing fellow-foodies together, introducing them to home fare and dining at culinary treasure nooks in the city.” This is one way of seeing Mumbai, especially for someone who likes food. You also get to meet others it gives a feel of the city’s dynamics.” And they are as interesting as it gets. Says  , foodie and someone who has written about these trails, “I am doing a ‘Working man’s food walk’ on Monday, which aims to show how the restaurant culture in Fort area has come up to feed the people who worked there. It also reflects regionality of its immigrants.” He also recently did a Parsi food walk at Dadar. “The idea was to go beyond the usual restaurants on our trail. We went to a few home chefs and punchayat-run places to have 
 , 
 , 
 , 
 and kulfi,” he informs.
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 - Heritage tour
 - Midnight cycle ride
 - Themed food walk
 - Moonlight trek
 - Village fishing experience
 - Aarey village trail
 
 
 
 
