HYDERABAD: Telangana and Andhra Pradesh Inc hailed the   as reformative with focus on rural economy and infrastructure development. While Telangana Inc said it expected the youngest state in the country to benefit from budget allocations, AP Inc felt the budget's push on coastal region connectivity and capital gains tax relief for Amaravati farmers would prove beneficial.

 The Federation of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTAPCCI), the apex trade and industry body for the two states, said the budget's push to stimulate demand in rural ar eas was commendable. However, the industry body rued the lack of clarity on how a cashless economy would get a push in rural areas, where connectivity is still a major challenge that needs solving.
 
 FICCI Telangana state council chairman Devendra Surana said allocation to states and to rural sectors had been increased by 20-25 per cent, which was a positive move.Hailing higher public expenditure, CII Telangana vice-chairman and TCS regional head and vice-president V Rajanna said that the Budget tried to continue the country's growth momentum at a time when the global economy was facing increasing uncertainty .
 
 CII Telangana chairman and Pennar Industries chairman Nrupender Rao said that reduction in corporate income tax rates for medium and small enterprises (with revenues less than `50 crore) from 30% to 25 per cent would boost employment and entrepreneurship in the state.
 
 Natco vice-chairman and CEO Rajeev Nannapaneni said abolition of Foreign Invest ment Promotion Board (FIPB) and MAT credit extension from 10 to 15 years were steps in the right direction.
 
 On the impact on healthcare sector, DRL chairman Satish Reddy said he felt that the Budget lacked specifics.“There is no strong thrust to bolster the sector, apart from a mention about improving rural health infrastructure with 1.5 lakh sub-centres being upgraded to health and wellness centers and the setting up of two AIIMS. Some amendments have been proposed on the Drugs & Cosmetics Act to give fillip to generic medicines, but details still need to emerge.One hoped for more decisive announcements, which did not happen,“ he said. Apollo Hospitals Group joint MD Sangita Reddy said the industry would have to wait and watch how duty reductions would help reduce cost of imports of medical equipment.
 
 Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association's (HYSEA) president Ranga Pothula said that budget did not offer much to the IT sector. “On the corporate tax front, there was no relief. The budget did not provide any incentive for R&D and innovation, which are crucial in our sector,“ he said.
 
 Pegasystems India MD Suman Reddy said, “For the startup community , we were expecting more tax incentives and provisions for easier setting up or closure of business.“
 
