CHENNAI: The state government, which had pitched for special coaching for class 12 government school students writing competitive exams, seems to have gone back on its decision. In November, TOI reported that the government was planning to coach medical and engineering aspirants, especially those appearing for NEET ( ) and JEE ( ).

 The proposal announced by then school education minister   was to enable a digital tutoring platform for students of government and government-aided schools.
 
 This was to benefit as many as 10,000 students across select schools in the state. But when asked about the status of the plan, officials in the school education department stated that no such plans have taken off. “There has been no such coaching provided for NEET,“ clarified D Sabitha, principal secretary to the school education department.
 
 According to experts in the education sector, a coaching programme for students was viewed as a conflict of interest with the state government which is strongly against allocating medical college seats through NEET.“After batting for the counselling process which was in place, there was opposition to bringing any initiative that could be seen as pro-NEET. But since the   has clearly given exemption only for one year and as the exam is going to be conducted as scheduled, it will be a very big loss for the students,“ they said.
 
 Given that the medical entrance test is viewed as an inevitable predicament for students, this rollback will impact many who could have benefited from it. Several teachers from corporation schools in the city do not have the means to prepare students for NEET which is mandatory for securing a medical college seat now as it draws heavily from the   syllabus.
 
 “The students can't afford enrolling into private coaching centres. Teachers are doing what they can from their end to help prepare students by staying late and having revisions.They will need more support if they are to ready students for these competitive exams which are new for them as well,“ said the headmistress of a corporation school in the city.
 
