BENGALURU: The city may get its first two   with a capacity of generating about 80MW of power in two years. The BBMP has floated tenders for the units; companies have come forward to set up one plant in Kannahalli and the other in Mavallipura.

 The plants will be commissioned in 18 to 24 months and each will convert 500 tonnes of   into 40MW of energy. As per experts calculations, about 100 tonnes of municipal waste can generate 7-8MW.
 
 The Palike plans to set up one plant in Mavallipura, spread over 10 acres. Dumping of waste stopped in Mavallipura years ago on orders from the pollution control board, following protests by villagers in August 2012.
 
 BBMP is also mulling setting up a third waste-to-energy plant, tenders for which are yet to be floated. The waste-to-energy plants will be a win-win situation for BBMP as it needn’t spend a paisa on disposing of municipal waste and can do so without having to set up landfills.
 
 
 
 
 Sarfaraz Khan, joint commissioner of BBMP (health and solid waste management), said, “The government has also signed MoUs with three companies to set up waste-to-energy plants. But the problem we face is opposition from locals, who refuse to allow trash to be treated in their backyard. We had floated tenders for such plants a number of times but received no bids. Companies refused to sell power at Rs 7.90 per unit but that is the tariff fixed by KERC, and we have to go by the commission’s tariff limits.”
 
 Essel Group will set up a plant in Mavallipura. “Two plants will come up in the 20-acre landfill, each occupying about 10 acres — one run by us and the other by Essel Group. But the only problem is the locals,” Khan added. While Sataram will set up a plant at Turur near Magadi, Nexus Novus will establish one in Yelahanka. But residents living in the vicinity are against the projects.
 
 Power generated by these plants will be connected to the grid and supplied through the   (KPTCL). “We are willing to offer the companies a little more than the tariff allowed by KERC to keep them interested in investing. The final rates have not been discussed yet,” Khan said. 
 
 
 
 Environmentalists and solid waste management experts have expressed opposition to waste-to-energy plants. When the Centre backed the idea of establishing these plants in Indian cities in the 2013 budget, environmentalist Almitra H Patel had said the move would not encourage segregation of waste at source. She had also remarked that these units are not environment-friendly as they release fly ash.
 
 
 
 
 The BBMP expert committee on solid waste management has not been kept in the loop. NS Ramakanth, member of the committee, said, “As per court orders, every move must be first approved by the panel. Unfortunately, we have not been informed of the decision to set up waste-to-energy plants. We don’t know what technology they will adopt, and moreover, most such plants across India have failed. Even technologies borrowed from European countries have not sustained, mainly because the heat required to produce steam and generate power is too much as our waste is largely wet and organic. The companies would have to spend more on producing energy and as per the KERC order, BBMP can pay them only Rs7.90 per unit”. 
 
 He added the three plants which were approved earlier are still on paper. “We approved two plants that would convert waste to biogas. One would treat leachate and the sludge generated from it would be biomethanized. But the plans have not taken shape,” he told TOI.
 
 
 
 
 For a city battling a gargantuan garbage problem, waste-to-energy plants seem like a viable solution to ease the burden on existing processing units. For years, many such projects have remained non-starters. That the BBMP has finally been able to make some progress is good news. Though the plants promise a dual benefit -getting rid of Bengaluru's junk and generating electricity -BBMP must not act in haste, given that incineration plants have faced stiff resistance from locals in the past and continue to do so. Pollution concerns raised by environmentalists and residents shouldn't be overlooked. Though the project is far from reality, the civic agency must ensure the best technology is employed to reduce adverse effects on the environment and localities.
 
