JAIPUR: The Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) of Rajasthan Police on Friday arrested   (42), the alleged kingpin of an  , involved in duping candidates appearing for the National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test ( ) by selling them fake question papers.

 A team of ATS nabbed Gupta from New Delhi on Friday evening, and recovered marksheets of over a dozen students, computers and several cheques from his room. Gupta ran an ‘education consultancy’ company in Delhi. 
 
 ATS said, Gupta is the main ringleader of the gang which was busted by the ATS a few days ago after it arrested five accused Vikram Sinha (40) Vikas Sinha (41), Ashok Gupta (40) Bhupendra Sharma (48) and Dishank Malik (31).
 
 Gupta has been accused of providing fake NEET question papers to student against Rs 5 lakh, while the question papers provided to students were later found out to be fake; the sleuths of ATS are probing if the gang was expecting real question papers from somebody.
 
 Vikas Kumar, superintendent of police, ATS told TOI that Gupta is a habitual offender, “In 2006 he was booked by Shimla police in a paper leak scam, late in 2015, Telengana police booked him for a similar case of educational fraud,” Kumar told TOI.
 
 The primary investigation suggests the Gupta ran Edu guides and consultancy firm in New Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar area. “Under the banner of an education consultancy firm, the accused ran a widespread racket of paper leak and promising wealthy students seats at medical colleges under management quota,” Kumar said.
 
 The officials within ATS said that investigation into the paper leak scam could fetch them crucial details about the wrongdoings of the Gupta’s gang. “We suspect that Gupta took money from parents and fielded imposters in the medical examinations. These dummy candidates appeared on behalf of real candidate and wrote answers,” a senior ATS official told TOI, adding that a special team of ATS is currently probing to check if indeed Gupta had connection, resources and manpower to tamper with admission cards and filed his dummy candidates.
 
 Gupta’s network was spread across Jaipur, New Delhi and Bihar.
 
