Superstar 
  may be Bollywood’s Mr Perfectionst, a great producer, businessman and philanthropist, but one thing he is not – is a hands-on father, admits the actor. Aamir, who turned 52 on Tuesday, opened up about his film, family, future projects and a lot more to Filmfare magazine. While he was at it, the actor also opened up about being a dad to three children- Junaid, Ira and Azad. 

 When asked about becoming a father to Azad, Aamir said it was a different experience as compared to his first son Junaid. Aamir said, “Yeah, it was different. The first child gets the most attention. When it’s your first child, you’re nervous, you’re extra cautious, extra involved. When Junaid was born in 1993 I shot only for 36 days that year. For 328 days I was with him. That excitement, that nervousness wasn’t there with Ira nor with Azad. Haan theekh hai ro raha hai, roney do (Yeah, okay. He is crying let him cry). With the first child it’s arrey roh raha hai, kya hogaya (He is crying? What happened?)”
 
 Aamir also admitted that he is not a “hands-on father” and gave all credit to ex-wife Reena and wife Kiran for raising the children. He said, “Also, I’ve to admit I’m not someone who’s fully there mentally most of the time. Kiran is a hands-on mother. Reena was also a hands-on mother. I was not such a hands-on father except for Junaid during that first one year.”
 
 He added, “Hands-on is when you’re sharing equal responsibilities with your partner in bringing up the child. Honestly, I’m not sharing that. I’m afraid I’m a self-obsessed person. Self-obsessed means I’m more in my work, in my own world. And I’m more excited about the things I’m doing, the world that I’m in. You can give it a fancy word but the bottom line is that I’m obsessed with my own life."
 
 When asked if he is making a conscious decision to keep his children out of the film industry, he said that he is neither trying to get them in nor keep them out. Aamir revealed that his older son is learning theatre while his daughter has begun working as an assistant director with an advertising company.
 
 
