KOLHAPUR: Superintendent of Police MB Tambde convened a meeting of Maratha organisations on Monday and appealed them to maintain law and order situation during their proposed agitation scheduled on Tuesday.

 Two teams of rapid action force along with more than 1,500 police personnel from the district will be made available to maintain law and order in the district. Tambde also said the police have not given any permission to   and will take action against protesters as per the law.
 
 Addressing reporters, after meeting leaders of Maratha organisations, he said, “We have told them that they are not allowed to conduct agitations as the prohibition orders have been issued by district collector and more than 5 persons cannot assemble together. We have appealed the leaders to not create unnecessary tension in the city. We will take stern action against violators.”
 
 He added, “Two teams of rapid action force have been added to the existing police force and all the police force will be on duty on Tuesday to ensure law and order is maintained. Weekly of and leaves of all the policemen have been cancelled which will also add up to our strength on Tuesday.”
 
 The Maratha organisations will be agitating at 35 places, including at all the entry points of the city. They will be blocking these points for at least an hour and organise Chakka Jam (road blockade). Over 40 Maratha organisations will participate in the agitation to press for their demands including reservation for the community.
 
 Meanwhile, members of the   were also denied permission for Chakka Jam by the Aurangabad police on Monday.
 
 It all started with members of  , an umbrella organization of several Maratha groups, on Monday reaching out to a local newspaper’s office on   to protest against an advertisement published on its front page.
 
 The idea of holding a Chakka Jaam on Tuesday across the state was criticised in the appeal made though an advertisement that appeared on Monday. The advertisement said that holding Chakka Jaam agitation will only divert peaceful agitation and innocent youths will be taken on record for being part of this agitation that may get violent.
 
 The advertisement also criticised self-proclaimed leaders of the community and blamed them for not working in accordance to the things that have been finalised in the meeting held at Mumbai.
 
 Members of the community claimed the advertisement was published given by a public prosecutor from Pune. According to Morcha’s 38-year-old state coordinator Ravindra Kale-Patil, the advertisement has been intentionally published by the government to create a rift between the members.
 
 “By publishing such advertisement, the government has played a dirty trick to divide the community that for the first time has come together. The move is aimed at diverting the agitation’s attention which is getting severe with each passing day,” he said. 
 
