GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat has become the first state in the country to roll out a cashless system for fair price (ration) shops much before the target date of March 31. Union food minister   on Wednesday said beneficiaries under the national food security scheme will now need to carry only Aadhaar cards for getting their foodgrains in Gujarat.

 “This will help in establishing the identity of beneficiaries, stop leakages of grains at the shop level and, above all, eradicate corruption in the  ,” Paswan said
 
 The Gujarat government (GoG) has started providing around 30 new e-services at Public Distribution System (PDS) shops across the state, to promote cashless transactions. These services include mobile recharge, booking of rail, bus or air tickets, payment of   premiums and even banking service.
 
 Payment for these services can be made through Aadhar Enabled Payment (AEP) system. The state government has linked its 17,250 PDS shops by the AEP system and is now linking other services too. This has started bringing even those people to these shops who don’t even take PDS ration.
 
 Sources said the Gujarat government is urging the use of AEP at PDS shops for making payments to promote cashless transactions. It is also convincing PDS shop owners to provide other public services using AEP as it will give them additional income.
 
 Amrut Prajapati, 62, PDS shop-owner at Jaspur village in Kalol taluka of Gandhinagar district has adopted the AEP system and is providing various services in addition to selling ration, kerosene and sugar to BPL and APL (above poverty line) families.
 
 Prajapati also leads the district association of PDS shops-owners. He said that after demonetization was announced, his customers and he were facing problems due to cash shortage.
 
 “But after AEP was introduced, it has become very easy not only to sell PDS items but I have also learnt how to use AEP for a number of other purposes,” Prajapati said. “I have started booking bus and rail tickets, recharging mobile phones and paying for DTH services. I can also pay customers in cash by transferring money to their bank accounts through AEP.”
 
 Prajapati recalled that he had provided money from his centre to many customers who had failed to get cash from ATMs.
 
 “Since January 8, I have paid around Rs 1 lakh in cash using AEP. My village has a population of only 3,000 but I am getting a lot more customers. Even those who do not take PDS ration have started visiting my shop,” Prajapati said.
 
 He further said that so far, he had got commission only for DTH services but he expects good commission later for other services.
 
 “I expect AEP transactions to generate an additional income of Rs15,000 to Rs20,000 per month. If the state government increases commission on AEP-based services, it will be useful for us as well as the people,” Prajapati said.
 
 Manoj Das, principal secretary, food and civil supply and consumer affairs department, is anchoring the project. He said that the state government has taken a number of steps to promote cashless transactions.
 
 “We have a network of 17,250 PDS shops,” Das said. “They are equipped with computers and internet devices and are doing transactions after biometric authentication.”
 
 He further said that the state government had gone for AEP as it is easy and does not require any commission or rental from customers or shopkeepers.
 
 “The customer just has to give his Aadhaar number, select his bank’s name and give his thumb impression,” Das said. “The customer is thus autheniticated and the desired amount is transferred from his account for payments.”
 
 Gujarat has partnered with common service centres (CSC), a special purpose vehicle of the ministry of electronics and IT to offer these services. Das said that to transfer money, CSC’s software, DIGIPay, is being used. There is no need for any card or PIN number.
 
 Das further said that in Gujarat, almost 80 lakh out of 120 lakh families will benefit from AEP system every month. “It has generated very good response from the people,” he said. 
 
 
