BENGALURU: As you stroll down the streets of Vijayanagar, you instantly realize you are in Kannadiga heartland. From 1960s till the 1990s, this locality was where people from neighbouring districts of Karnataka came and settled down in search of livelihood. 

 Shakila Shetty, 61, who came to Bengaluru for her first job in   in Vijayanagar in 1977, recalls, "I just had a bag. My uncle stayed in Hosahalli and I lived with his family for three years until I moved to Mumbai after marriage. There were big old houses with small courtyards or gardens... and only row houses. The shops and markets were far. There were a lot of open spaces and the streets were covered with green canopies; temples, parks and lakes were all around us," she adds. Impressed, Shakila moved back to settle in Vijayanagar in 2000.
 
 B Veeresh's story is almost the same. His first job in Bengaluru was in the police department and later he moved to  . "During the 1990s, the rent in Indiranagar and Jayanagar areas was very high because of the IT boom. Many who got jobs in software companies from north Karnataka, Mysuru and other towns stayed in west Bengaluru because land was abundant and rentals were cheap there. On weekends, they would go home and Mysuru Road bus terminal was their main access point. Even the City railway station was close by," he says.
 
 In fact, Vijayanagar was earlier known as Hosahalli, literally meaning a new village. It was Kannada author M Chidananda Murthy who proposed the name after the Vijayanagar empire that was established during the 15th and 16th centuries.
 
 The area abutting Vijayanagar is   (RPC) Layout as the railway lines towards Mysuru went through this locality. On Murthy's suggestion, BBMP renamed this area Hampi Nagar. Hampi was the capital of the Vijayanagar empire and is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the state.
 
 However, like other parts of the city, west Bengaluru's skyline too reflects unplanned rapid growth, eating into the green quotient. A few lakes around have vanished and open spaces are a rarity.
 
 Veeresh points out how the revenue land parcels around Moodalpalya, Marutinagar, Byraveshwaranagar, Pattegarapalya and Nagarbhavi village were sold out by the erstwhile BDA ( ) to form private layouts, of which   became the fastest urbanized part of west Bengaluru.
 
 "Many senior citizens living in very big houses sold their properties and migrated to foreign countries with their children and private builders built smaller apartments," Shakila recalls.
 
 Today, the settlers of Vijayanagar are trying to protect the area's cultural ethos from the ill-effects of rapid urbanization. 
 
 The Bunt Sangha, Adi Chunchunagiri mutt, Maruti Mandir, Gavi Gangadhareshwara temple, Jain temple and a few other religious and community centres are holding aloft the Kannada culture in the locality. 
 
 Residents are active too. Almost 16 resident welfare associations of smaller colonies in the area have come under the Vijayanagar Vijaya Viveka Pratisthana to celebrate with fervour the Mangaluru festival and Uttara Kannada food and cultural festivals annually. 
 
