NEW DELHI: How will Delhi’s draft   policy, which aims to restrict parking spaces and encourage paid parking, even in colonies, benefit residents? And how will the Delhi government garner peoples’ support for such a policy? Experts say this can be done by ploughing back revenue generated from parking into infrastructure development in the neighbourhood. The recently released draft policy suggests creation of a “special benefit” area to overcome local resistance to the parking policy. 

 The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) had directed the city government to come out with a parking policy to combat severe air pollution and congestion in the capital.
 
 Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) held a meeting with officials of the Delhi government, municipal corporations, urban planning experts and residents on Monday to discuss as to how the draft policy could be fine-tuned for its effective implementation. 
 
 The draft policy, which recommends an incremental hike in the road tax rate for those with multiple cars, no parking on footpaths, paid parking inside colonies, among other features, is probably not going to be accepted by residents. 
 
 RWA members who attended the meeting on Monday sought to know as to how revenues from such schemes would benefit them. 
 
 “Many of these are punitive measures. How do we know whether the revenue collected will be adequately used? Public will be cynical because most schemes are not enforced on ground. What the government sees as public land within a colony, the residents see as their common land. We need an accountability framework to ensure such policy is implemented equitably,” said Asutosh Dikshit, CEO of United Residents Joint Action (URJA). 
 
 CSE researchers said the “special benefit area” clause, under which parking revenue will be used to develop footpaths and other infrastructure in residential areas, could be communicated effectively to garner support. It will also prevent encroachment of space and ensure equitable sharing of space among residents with one or multiple cars.
 
 “Whenever there is a conflict of interest, it affects the implementation of such a policy. If residents own a number of cars, they will resist it. We have a timeline for the implementation of this policy and we have received few objections or suggestions to the draft,” said K K Dahiya, special commissioner (transport). 
 
 Dikshit and other RWA members said they would not mind if the government was coercive provided policies were implemented equitably. Calling it a progressive parking policy, Shreya Gadepalli, director (South Asia) at Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP), said, “It should not be seen as a punitive measure; it is not a tool to beat up someone, but to make space available.” 
 
 A representative from Uber sought to know whether such a policy could be implemented in entire NCR and if taxation on commercial vehicles like taxis and buses can be reduced. “The idea is to encourage public transport. But both buses and taxis have to pay just to cross the border from Gurgaon or Noida. How will car ownership be disincentivised?” 
 
 There was a detailed discussion on how parking charges would be determined. Gadepalli added that parking price should be based on demand or it can be left to the market forces. 
 
 South corporation officials said multi-level parking lots were lying unused and that there was no support from RWAs. “We even started a monthly package system for Rs 1,500, but people still park on the roadside,” said one of the officials. 
 
 There are 15 multi-level parking lots in the city, but they are hardly used. Officials said only 80-90 cars are parked in the Hauz Khas facility. Residents complain these multi-level parking lots are dingy, cumbersome and poorly designed.
 
  According to experts, civic bodies should consider the utility of these lots before investing money in other expensive projects. The Sarojini Naar parking lot cost Rs 80 crore. “It’s foolish to expect people to park for a fee in a multi-level parking when on-street parking is free or far cheaper,” said Gadepalli.
 
 
