HYDERABAD: The much-vaunted  , which is proposed to come up at Mucherla on the city's outskirts, seems to be inching closer to reality with the Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) gearing up to hold a   next month to kick off the process of securing   from the   (MoEF). 

 While the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the Hyderabad Pharma City's first phase, to be spread over 6,000 acres, has already been conducted by the Environmental Protection Training and Research Institute (EPTRI), the master plan for the entire 12,500 acres has been prepared by renowned Singapore-based Surbana Jurong Private Ltd.
 
 "The public hearing for the Pharma City will be held next month. The Telangana Pollution Control Board will give 30 days for filing objections and suggestions before the hearing. The EIA has already been conducted taking all factors into consideration," TSIIC managing director EV Narasimha Reddy told TOI on Tuesday. 
 
 TSIIC officials said that once the environmental clearances are granted, the allotment of land will be taken up. Nearly 350 pharma players, including 150 biggies like Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Dr Reddy's Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Mylan and Aurobindo have evinced interest in setting up shop in Pharma City.
 
 While some players have expressed interest through associations such as the Bulk Drug Manufacturers Association (BDMA), others have approached industries minister K T Rama Rao directly, it is learnt.
 
 "Companies have sought land parcels ranging from 10 acres to 200 acres. Most of them are small and medium units that require between 10 to 50 acres. Since pharma firms come under the Red category on account of high pollution generation levels, 33% of the allotted land will have to be earmarked for greenery by each player," said a senior TSIIC official.
 
 "The land allotment will be done by a committee headed by the senior officials of TSIIC, industries department, industry representatives as well as project consultants. The committee will assess the requirement of land to be allocated to each firm," the official added.
 
 If everything goes as per schedule, the Hyderabad Pharma City could well become a reality in a year-and-half, sources added.
 
 
