AHMEDABAD: Bhuj-based dentist couple   and   Joshi remember doctors telling them that the chance of their twins — a boy and a girl — surviving was extremely slim. The reason was that they were born extremely premature at 23 weeks. 

 However, the Joshi couple refused to give up. “We grabbed at the chance to give them life and the faith has paid off,” said Dr Rishi. The couple recently went back to   with their twins, hale and hearty, and neatly tucked in baby bassinets.
 
 Ahmedabad doctors claim that the twins are the most premature babies to survive in the country.
 
 “The twins were born at 23 weeks of gestation. They are the most premature babies to survive in India. There is no reference of any twins born premature at 23 weeks and surviving,” said leading neo-natologist Dr  . 
 
 The twins’ case will be discussed as an index case at the National Neo-Natal Forum on World Prematurity Day on November 17. 
 
 He said that even in western countries, statistics reveal that only one in 10 babies born at 23 weeks had survived with all brain functions intact.
 
 “The American Association of Paediatrics mentions that babies born after spending less than 23 weeks in the mother’s womb are not considered “viable”. In other words, they can have high mortality (death rate) and morbidity (handicap),” Dr Mehta said.
 
 The twins, delivered on December 16, 2016 at Mayflower Hospital in the city, weighed 600 gm each. The boy and the girl spent 107 and 92 days in the NICU respectively. When they were discharged in April last week, their weight had increased to 3 kg each.
 
 Doctors had to overcome several challenges to save the twins. “The first was to prevent brain hemmorhage as, in infants so young, the blood-brain barrier is yet to develop. Due to this, even pressure exerted by an injection or extra fluid can lead to bleeding in the brain,” said Dr Mehta, who along with a team of five doctors, attended to the twins.
 
 “We would do a brain sonography every second day to check for brain hemorrhage. A hemorrhage can debilitate the child,” the doctor said. 
 
 “Secondly, these babies had grown only one layer of skin and it would tear under the gentlest of pressures. For this reason, prevention of infections was a major challege. The children were also kept on ventilators till their lungs could develop enough to breathe for themselves,” said Dr Mehta. 
 
 The Joshi couple has reached home and created a separate environment to protect their twins from infections. They said it was an arduous but fulfilling journey. 
 
 "We have immense faith in Morari Bapu who told us only one thing — keep the faith. We are waiting for him to bless our twins and name them as they are really special,” Dr Jalpa said. 
 
