NEW DELHI: As many as 33,744 children enrolled in municipal   in the capital have dropped out after the primary level in the past two years, said Justice   of the Delhi high court on Tuesday. Justice Gupta, who is on the   of the HC, said the data was provided by the chief secretary of Delhi. 

 She was speaking at the release of the “Standard Operating Procedures for Care and Protection of Children in Street Situations”, an initiative of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights. NGO Save the Children is a partner organisation. 
 
 Justice Gupta stressed the need to bridge the information gap and create interlinkages to reach out to the most vulnerable children. She also highlighted the need to focus on rehabilitation as mentioned in the SOP manual. NCPCR chairperson Stuti Kaicker said, “The SOP aims at streamlining the interventions within the current legal and policy framework. The purpose of the SOP is to identify processes that should be set in motion once a child on the street has been identified as a child in need.” 
 
 The commission also sees the SOP as an attempt to empower both the common man and the practitioners with a step-by-step procedure, which may be adopted to ensure safety, rescue, rehabilitation and social reintegration of a child on the street. 
 
 A chapter in the SOP titled, “Children in street situations in India”, states that two in every third street children are out of school and the proportion of children working but not studying is high. The SOP also emphasises the need to make an objective assessment of the child’s family conditions before reintegration so that he/she does not return to the street again. The document also talks of counselling and linking the family to social welfare schemes to ensure a better life for the child. 
 
 In this backdrop, Union minister   has asked NCPCR to make Delhi a pilot stage for implementation for the SOP. A key component of the SOP is to give every child an identity by way of an Aadhaar card and make the area postman and post office the nodal link at the local level for a child on the street. The idea of an “agent of change” is introduced wherein like the postman, a certified insurance agent will identify and link children to health insurance. 
 
 The NCPCR will need to discuss the SOP with the Delhi government and Delhi Police before executing the plan in the districts in pilot mode. 
 
 Children rescued from streets were also consulted at a programme organised by NCPCR. An earlier study by the NGO had found around 50,000 children on the streets of Delhi alone. 
 
 
