MANGALURU: With an eye on the ensuing assembly polls in 2018,   District   Committee (DCC) is gearing up to strengthen the party in the coastal district by bifurcating   into two units.

 Congress, which bagged seven assembly constituencies out of eight in 2013 election, also has a majority in the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) and many other local bodies. Plans are on the anvil before the party to bifurcate Dakshina Kannada DCC into DK Urban DCC and DK Rural DCC.
 
 Congress leader and former mayor Shashidhar Hegde told TOI that the four assembly constituencies falling within the Mangaluru city police commissionerate limits, including areas that come under 60 wards of MCC, will be carved out to form DK Urban DCC. Meanwhile, he said, areas under the remaining five rural constituencies will be brought under DK Rural DCC.
 
 Accordingly, Mangaluru, Mangaluru city South, Mangaluru city North and Mulky-Moodbidri will be brought under DK Urban DCC unit. 
 
 At the same time, rural constituencies like Bantwal, Belthangady, Puttur and Sullia will be brought under DK Rural DCC unit. 
 
 Preliminary round of discussions were held to bifurcate DK DCC, Hegde said adding, “A final decision in this effect will be taken only after obtaining nod from the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee.”
 
 DCC president B Ramanath Rai, who is also the district in-charge minister for Dakshina Kannada, said there is a proposal before the party to form two DCC units for the district and thereby strengthen its base. 
 
 “We are discussing about forming two units for the party in the district. A final decision will be taken after taking all aspects into consideration,” he added.
 
 Once bifurcated, constituencies represented by minister for food, civil supplies and consumer affairs U T Khader (Mangaluru), J R Lobo (Mangaluru city South), B A Mohiuddin Bava (Mangaluru city North) and former minister   (Mulky-Moodbidri) will be under DK Urban DCC. Meanwhile, constituencies represented by minister for forest, environment and ecology B Ramanath Rai (Bantwal), K Vasanth Bangera (Belthangady), T Shakunthala Shetty (Puttur) and S Angara (Sullia) will be under DK Rural DCC. Only S Angara was elected from BJP in the district in 2013 Assembly election. 
 
