BHOPAL: Seven cities from Madhya Pradesh have made it to the top 25 rank of Swachh Sarvekshan 2017, a ranking exercise taken up by the Union government to assess the level of cleanliness. 

 Overall, 23 cities from MP are in the top 100 list - the most for any state in the country. The improvement of Madhya Pradesh is no flash in the pan. It was the result of concerted efforts by the urban administration and environment department (UAED). "It began with holding joint conferences of towns and cities backed by excellent team work. It brought about structural change in the system and our focus was on cleanliness and adopting modern practises," said UAED commissioner Vivek Aggarwal.
 
 A total of 34 cities and towns of Madhya Pradesh were reviewed on the basis of their sanitation and cleanliness index. MP's efforts got a significant boost from 22 of these cities being notified as open defecation free (ODF). Along with promises of investment, a cluster-based approach led to tendering of major solid waste management proposals for all locations. "We maintained a centralised command and coordinated approach. The work was supported by city mayors and elected representatives. The result is for everyone to see," said UAED principal secretary Malay Shrivastava. UAED task began right after the criticism of ranking of MP cities in Swachh Bharat rankings declared in August 2015. Bringing about structural change was meant to shift from focus on infrastructure to involving consultants to chalk out a winning strategy. The same approach was a success when four of MP's cities were selected in first 20 cities for smart city project of the Union government.
 
 Swachh Sarvekshan-2017 witnessed 34 of MP cities making it to top 100 cleanest cities in India. Besides Indore and  , top performers included Ujjain, Rewa and Sehore. Quality Council of India (QCI) conducted the survey during January-February this year by deploying 421 assessors for on the site inspection of cleanliness in 434 cities and towns and another 55 for real time monitoring of progress of survey and field inspections. Field inspectors used geo-tagged devices for collecting evidence in real time of their inspection at 17,500 locations.
 
