VELLORE: A group of   members on Friday filed a missing complaint to trace Ambur legislator R  , who has been away from the constituency for over a month.

 AIADMK members, led by the party’s Ambur town secretary M Madhiazhagan, filed the complaint on behalf of people in the constituency.
 
 They said Balasubramani, a loyalist of the ‘sacked’ AIADMK deputy general secretary T T V Dhinakaran, has been missing from the constituency since August 16. It was the duty of the MLA to address problems faced by the people, they said.
 
 The complaint said officials had removed shops in Ambur Bazaar area in the name of evicting encroachments. However, the MLA was not present in the constituency to redress people’s grievances. Hence, they requested police to trace the legislator and bring him back to the constituency to address people’s grievances.
 
 Balasubramani and other legislators who support Dhinakaran, including Gudiyattam legislator Jayanthi Padmanaban and Sholinghur legislator N G Parthiban, have been staying in a resort in Coorg in Karnataka after staying for a while in a resort in Puducherry, following the merger of the factions led by Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam.
 
 Calling the complaint ‘politically motivated’,   told TOI over phone that he was staying with a few other MLAs in Coorg for the sake of the party due to the political turmoil. However, he was available over the phone and was tracking the developments and issues in the constituency.
 
 “The complaint has been filed by a section of our party workers who are instigated by the minister (K C Veeramani) as I am functioning against his wish. People of the constituency do not have any issue with me. I am tracking the developments in the constituency. I am available over phone and people contact me and air their issues,” said Balasubramani, who was appointed the   district (west) party secretary by Dhinakaran after ‘removing’ K C Veeramani from the post.
 
 It may be recalled that an AIADMK member from Gudiyattam had filed a petition before a judicial magistrate court, pleading the court to direct police to trace the Gudiyattam legislator Jayanthi Padmanaban, who was then staying in a resort in Puducherry. A section of the party workers locked the Gudiyattam her office to register their protest against her failure to be in the constituency.
 
