NAGPUR: The sixty-strong Congress delegation camping in Delhi is believed to have conveyed its total disappointment to Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee president   on Tuesday over the way the city unit of the party is being run. More importantly, the dozen Congress corporators who were in the delegation also threatened to resign en masse if the NMC leader of the opposition was not changed by April 20.

 On that day the decision on co-opted members is likely in the city corporation if a general body meeting is called. The Congress corporators who met Chavan also opposed any move to nominate city Congress president Vikas Thakre as a co-opted member of the NMC. They are upset that even after losing election, Thakre’s back-door entry would send a wrong signal to the party workers. The delegation openly alleged that   and Thakre were instrumental in getting Sanjay Mahakalkar nominated as leader as opposition. With a weak LoP, Thakre could continue to have his say the civic affairs. “No Mahakalkar and no Thakre,” is the ultimatum that they gave Chavan.
 
 When contacted, Chavan told TOI that he had very meaningful discussions with party workers and leaders from Nagpur. “Such healthy deliberations are good for the party organization,” he said. Downplaying the ultimatum by corporators led by Praful Gudadhe, he said he would look into the issues raised by them which were ‘nothing serious’ and more of routine affair of the party.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the city delegation was upbeat about the meeting with party Vice-President  , as well as the MPCC president and very hopeful that changes would take place and heads start rolling in the city Congress unit. “Rahulji patiently heard us and admitted that some seniors in the party were not amenable to changes and giving chance to the younger generation. He said this was creating serious problem in strengthening the party. But he advised them not to lose hope and wait patiently for better days that were sure to come for the party,” said the corporator.
 
 Meanwhile Chavan will be reaching city on Wednesday and spend few hours here before leaving for a four-day campaign tour of Chandrapur, Parbhani and   where civic elections are scheduled on April 19.
 
