MUMBAI: The   ( ) has issued notices to BJP MP from North Mumbai   saying trusts associated with him have illegally occupied two public open spaces and a plot meant for women's welfare in the Kandivli Borivli stretch. It has asked him to explain occupation of the plots, failing which it will take back their possession.

 The BMC notices came in the wake of a complaint by a local activist, Reji Abraham, to the Lokayukta accusing Shetty of encroaching upon several open spaces --including the three plots -and exploiting them commercially .
 
 Shetty denied the allegations, saying he was neither directly nor indirectly associated with the three premises.“I am not associated with any of these properties. Let BMC take possession of these plots without any delay ,“ he said.
 
 The notices have been sent to three trusts ­ the  ,   and Kirti Mahila Utkarsh Mandal ­ with copies marked to Shetty .
 
 The Mahila Adhar Bhavan, which is built on the land occupied by Kirti Mahila Utkarsh Mandal, has construc ted a structure on the plot “for women's empowerment.“
 
 Civic officials stated that there is no agreement between the   (to whom the plots belong) and the trusts associated with Shetty , so their possession of the plots and the structures constructed on them are illegal.
 
 Officials stated that when the possession of the plots itself is illegal, all structures built on it and the activities going on there too will be deemed illegal.
 
 “We have issued showcause notices asking them to explain their occupation. We will hear them before initiating any further action,“ said Kishore Gandhi, assistant municipal commissioner, RCentral ward.
 
 One of the notices sent to the MP reads, “You are directed to show cause why this property shall not be taken in possession of BMC from you within 7 days. If you fail to prove that your occupation of the structure is legal, the BMC will forcibly take possession of the premises.“
 
 “This is part of a regular attempt to take over public grounds and other open spaces by elected representatives through proxy associates, by exploiting policy loopholes and with the support of senior civic corporation officials,“ said Reji Abraham, who is president of the United Association for Social Education and Public Welfare Trust.
 
 
