MUMBAI: Once Asia's largest slum, the soil of Dharavi has also spawned a fair number of lotus blossoms, figuratively speaking. These will be gathered into a bouquet of speakers at an inspiring event Sunday.

 TEDxDharavi, a gathering of NGOs, artistes and businessmen at  , will see them narrate stories of courage and achievement. Some are from Dharavi, others from outside.
 
 There is activist Jockin Arputham, president of the National Slum Dwellers Federation, Dr R Vasudevan, who transforms waste plastic into roads and Avi Malik, who trained a blind youth named Divyanshu to become India's first blind paraglider.
 
 Slumgods, an international hip hop troupe from Dharavi, will retrace the struggles of growing up in the slum. Its founder Akash Dhangar also organises guided tours of the locality.
 
 Eighty-year-old Bhau Korde, a former school principal, was a young lad when saw the expansive fishing village of Dharavi become occupied by Tamil immigrants and later transform into a multicultural society. He will share his views as well. Korde advocates Dharavi as a prime example of communal harmony.
 
 Avi Malik, who was a fighter pilot with the Indian Air Force for 27 years, told TOI how a blind youth named Divyanshu approached his paragliding school in Kamshet to attempt the sport. "I was startled I must admit, but once I was sure he wanted to do so for the right reasons, not to prove a point to anybody, I accepted the challenge. We designed tactile modes of learning, simulators and achieved the feat. Both Divyanshu and I will relate our experiences Sunday," he said.
 
 Participants range from alumni of top B-schools like IIM, IIFT and ISB to entrepreneur networks and social ventures like Dasra, Rang De and Teach for India. A highlight is an offbeat Bharatanatyam performance by Charles Bharatnatyam.
 
 Organiser Raghuveer Surupa said, "Each of these stories of grit and determination has gone global. A young girl named Roshni Shaikh of Dharavi Diaries will speak about the value of education, technology and modern skills towards empowerment. An architect named Makarand Bhoot from Manhattan will say how he started his career in Dharavi. His Dharavi model of housing involving small spaces for families to live and work simultaneously, became replicated elsewhere."
 
