KOLKATA: One nation, one league. That's the target as the   looks to step in and clear the air over Indian football's messy domestic structure.

 The   (AIFF) has decided to run the I-League and Indian Super League (ISL) concurrently this season, while deliberating on the medium and long-term roadmap of Indian football. While I-League will remain the country's premier league, with the winners eligible to take part in the AFC Champions League qualifiers play-off, the ISL has also got official recognition with the champions being granted an AFC Cup slot.
 
 However, both AFC and   want India to put in place a one-league structure "as soon as possible". To expedite this process, an AFC delegation will visit the country to meet all concerned stakeholders in mid-August. The AFC team will return to India during the under-17 World Cup in October for another series of meetings at all six match venues, involving stakeholders from the specific regions. Top FIFA officials, who will be in India at that time, are also likely to attend those meetings in a move to give shape to the future path of Indian football.
 
 There is good news for I-League clubs as well.
 
 In its latest communication with the AIFF, the continental parent body has suggested that the one-league structure should "ideally" involve teams from both ISL and I-League.
 
 "The AIFF's decision to run I-League and ISL concurrently is a purely stop-gap arrangement. But AFC can't allow this arrangement to run for long. This is why they have decided to take a fresh initiative to end the logjam as soon as possible," a source told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 When the U-17 World Cup's draw ceremony was held in Mumbai last Friday, AFC officials — in the presence of FIFA representatives — urged AIFF to introduce a one-league structure at the earliest (read: 2018-19 season).
 
 "AFC has its reservations about recognizing and continuing with two leagues in a country. There has to be only one league which will be officially recognized by AFC. And it may happen next season itself," said a source.
 
 According to another source, with the knowledge of this development, the new league may be expanded to at least 18 teams. "Our understanding is that AFC wants I-League clubs to be part of this one-league structure. The initial proposal is an 18-team league. However, given that both ISL and I-League will have 10 teams each, it may also be a 20-team league," he said.
 
 While two-time champions   became the only I-League club to join the ISL bandwagon, both East Bengal and   decided to stay with the I-League even after picking up ISL bid documents.
 
 "AFC, in consultation with FIFA and the local stakeholders, will be ready with its suggestions about Indian football's roadmap during the under-17 World Cup. It will then be forwarded to AIFF executive committee for taking a final call," the source pointed out.
 
 
