Bengaluru: Tasleema Bhanu, Rukhiya Nehruddin and Sabaha Banu, all residents of 2nd Cross, Vinayakanagar, are thanking their lucky stars for their children’s safety. Since the madrassa was closed for Friday prayers, their kids escaped the deadly blaze, say the mothers. 

 On any usual day, about 80 children are present in the madrassa. It’s not clear what the maulvi, Mohammed Hafizullah, was doing in the madrassa on the holiday, locals said.
 
 Tasleema, a homemaker, said her 12-year-old son spends at least two hours in the madrassa every day. “Schools are closed and and we are sending our kids to the madrassa so they don’t waste time. At least 80 students aged 6-15 would have been there had it not been a holiday. Since it was a Friday, classes were suspended for prayers,” said the relieved mother.
 
 Ishtiaq Ahmed, resident of Vinayakanagar and owner of an automobile shop on SP Road, saw the news of the fire on TV. “Running a foam chair unit inside a residential building is too risky. But what to do? Most houses in Old Guddadahalli are into similar businesses and no one listens to me. I have warned many of them against storing such highly inflammable material inside the house,” he said.
 
 A fire brigade official said Friday’s fire could be a warning to every other building in the area where commercial activities take place. He claimed highly inflammable products like foam and wood were not stored in a safe way in the factory. “At places like this, even a small spark can lead to a massive fire, and that is what happened today. Luckily, fire tenders reached the spot in time. Otherwise, it could have led to a bigger tragedy,” he said.
 
 BOX: Foam fuelled blaze: Officials
 
 The stench of the burning factory material could be smelt at least one km away. The foam caused the blaze to spread rapidly, said fire personnel. Initially, three vehicles were dispatched to the spot and the fire was controlled by 2.30pm. “But smouldering embers of the foam led to smaller fires. Due to the heat, the water used to douse the flames started flowing down, scalding our feet,” a fire official said. 
 
 Hanumesh, a firefighter, sustained injuries on the head when materials thrown from the fourth floor hit him. He was taken to a nearby private hospital and his condition is stable. 
 
 
