It won’t be wrong to say that   is pretty self-explanatory and is one of the most anticipated days of the Valentine's Week as lovers make the most of this mushy day to seal their love with a kiss. Celebrated on 13th February every year, the day marks the beginning of all the anticipation for Valentine’s Day.

 No prizes for guessing that kissing is the easiest way to tell your partner how you feel about them. The sweet old, unhurried peck not only makes you feel good, but it has a surprising number of health benefits too. And if you are somebody who is slightly more passionate, then you can always make the most of   Day by being a little adventurous in kissing the love of your life. If you’re wondering how are going to express your love with a kiss today, here is some help:
 
 What does your kiss mean?
 
 
 This is to soothe frayed nerves and boost your confidence.
 
 This may not involve any physical attraction but still can transmit affection, love and support.
 On the collarbone: A very suggestive and seductive gesture, it means one is ready to get intimate,
 
  Most of the times this is a passionate kiss involving all the energy of play and mischief.
 
 Besides love, this tender gesture denotes admiration or thanking someone.
 
  Definitely implies passion, and also sends messages of love and wanting to date.
 
 This is a full body contact which suggests that both the partners are ready to go to the next level.
 
 Well, still looking for a reason to kiss? Then here are some benefits of locking lips:
 
 Not only kissing boosts bonding in a couple, when one kisses, one produces a hormone called oxytocin which causes a couple to bond.
 
 Kissing also releases endophins and endorphins that can make one happy. So, if you are depressed, kissing seems to be a better medication than going to a psychologist or popping pills.
 
 During a heated kissing session, your body releases adrenaline which is said to reduce the feeling of pain. Try pairing locking lips with physical intimacy when you have a headache and see whether it works wonders on your ache.
 
 So, have a  , all you guys and girls!
 
 
