BHOPAL: The free-for-all for hawkers is going to end.   is rolling out new laws that will confine hawkers to particular zones and, at the end of day, force them to move out — bag, baggage and cart. 

 Hawkers will be tracked via GPS to ensure that they stick to their allotted area and do not leave their goods behind after they are done for the day.
 
 The BMC council passed the resolution to adopt the new hawkers’ policy on Tuesday. While it holds out the promise to transform the city, the crackdown is a political minefield. Will the administration have the guts to implement it with election round the corner? The biggest challenge is from the thousands of   since BMC has identified only 3,200 of 5,219 registered vendors for ID cards.
 
 The policy allows for only one hawker zone per ward and bars them from encroaching public places. This will end the practice of ‘subletting’ of space by hawkers, which costs BMC Rs 50 crore per year, say urban development experts. “There will be a smart hawker corner in each of the 85 wards. We have allocated Rs 15 lakh for each ward for this initiative,” said mayor Alok Sharma. 
 
 Hawker shops will be monitored through biometric identification and GPS to ensure they make timely payments and move out every night. One of the key aspects is that a hawker space can be passed down from father to son. “A street vendor would be asked to name a nominee to ensure continuity,” said BMC deputy commissioner Vinod Singh.
 
 It’s going to be a tough ask. “We pay BMC Rs 20 per day. I am not aware of on the effect of hawkers’ policy,” said  , a street vendor. Singh said a new survey will be carried out for the entire city. “Model hawkers zone are planned at No. 6 Market, Shahpura and MP Nagar,” he said.
 
 Businessmen welcome the move. “Hawkers obstruct movement. Crowded markets and clogged roads are further narrowed by vendors and their carts,” said  , a businessman. The move is likely to trigger a political storm as it will affect local netas who cashed in on lack of regulation.
 
 
