CHENNAI: All eyes will be on home boy A   when his team   take on   in the opening match of the   league here at the Nehru Indoor Stadium on Thursday. It will be a nine-match affair of three games each and the team winning more games will be adjudged the winner. Each game shall have players competing to score 11 points first -if scores are level at 10-all then the 11th point will be a golden point and will decide the winner.

 "I am very excited as I have not played in front of my home crowd for more than a decade. The format is quite fast-paced and interesting and we obviously look forward to start on a winning note," said Sharath.
 
 Some of the world's best paddlers will be in action and it will be a battle of equals on Day 1. While the Falcons boast of women's world No.11 Wu Yang, apart from Indians like Sanil Shetty, Arjun Ghosh, Priyadarshini Das, Sutirtha Mukherjee, Mavericks will be heavily banking on the experience of Sharath Kamal. Mavericks, under the guidance of Sachin Shetty and German Peter Engel, features Birdie Boro, rising stars Archana Kamath and S Amruthapushpak while their overseas recruits Tiago Apolonia, Stefan Fegerl, Sabine Winter and Sofia Polcanova form a deadly combination.
 
 "The lead-up to the UTT has been an enriching experience as most of us got to interact with our idols in the sport and even play a couple of practice matches here in Chennai.
 
 We are all set for the first match and I can assure you it will be top-class entertainment," said Sanil of Falcons TTC.
 
 
 Former world champion Viswanathan Anand will unveil the winner's trophy of UTT along with league promoters Vita Dani and Niraj Bajaj.
 
 Along with the chess ace, Indian TT legends and Arjuna Awardees G Jagannath, V Chandrashekhar, S Raman will also be present on the inaugural day of the league. Former national champions MS Mythili and NR Indu will also grace the occasion. Recipient of both Arjuna and Dronacharya Awards -volleyball legend GE Sridharan will also be present at the occasion. 
 
