NAGPUR: All set to present the fourth edition of  , the organizers are this year too carrying forward the theme of providing a right mix of music, dance,   to the audience. A fine line up of artists from the city, state and country are set to entertain   from Feb 23 to 26.

 Spread over four days and three venues, Anubhooti will feature Mahesh Elkunchwar’s play Magna Talyakathi. “This will be the first show in the city. It has been staged in Pune and Mumbai last year in May,” said Dr. Manjusha Mardikar, one of the founder of this festival. “Elkunchwar’s works are famous and he has a dedicated fan following in the city. The festival will also feature a documentary on his life and works made by Mohit Takalkar. The screening of the documentary will be followed by a chat with the filmmaker where Chandrakant Kulkarni, director of   will be in conversation with him,” Dr. Mardikar informed.
 
 The event will open with a flute recital by imminent flautist Pt. Ronu Mazumdar. On Feb 24 which is Mahashivratri, the festival will aptly feature a vocal performance by Drupad artist Uday Bhawalkar. The second session of the day will feature Hindustani classical vocalist Pt Ulhas Kashalkar. “Pt. Kashalkar has performed in each of the editions of Anubhooti so far and we hope to have him with us each year,” explained Dr. Harshvardhan Mardikar a co-organizer. “Both Mahesh Elkunchwar and Pt Kashalkar have a rich repertoire of work and are among the few artists from Nagpur who have made it big at national level. So we want to give them this honour. Just as Vidushi Prabha Atre performs on the closing night of Sawai Gandharva Bhimsen festival in Pune, we want Pt. Kashalkar to be a sustaining image of this event,” he explained.
 
 The festival will once again have a dance and instrumental performance at the Balaji Temple, Civil Lines by Kathak dancer Sharveri Jamenis and sarod artist Debsmita Bhattacharya. “Every year it's the upcoming artists who get to perform at the temple which is a perfect setting,” felt Dr. Manjusha.
 
 Anubhooti was started by a group of professionals which includes besides the Mardikars, architect Smita and Habib Khan, Dr. Archana Deshpande and Dr. Anjali Bhandarkar. “We started the festival at a time when the art and cultural scenario in the city was at its lowest ebb,” says Dr. Harshvardhan and adds that cultural events in the city had got confined to film music concerts, arangetram in the name of dance performances and commercial theatre. “Today with the help of other organizations like SCZCC and the district administration the city has a very vibrant cultural calendar and we are proud to have contributed to it,” he said.
 
 The festival will have a free access on a first come first served basis.
 
