AURANGABAD: The   (pigeon pea) procurement process has started witnessing   from  , along with other parts of Maharashtra.

 Long queues of tractors were seen outside the state-run purchase centres with angry farmers protesting the abrupt winding up of the process. Farmers from Majalgaon carried out a road blockade on Saturday while other intense protests were also reported from different parts of Marathwada.
 
 While speaking with TOI on Sunday, a section of affected farmers said they have token numbers with them that were issued few weeks ago. Badri Shinde, a farmer from Paithan taluka, was part of over 150 such farmers who were forced to stay in vehicles and brave the scorching heat to sell their produce.
 
 “My brother is getting engaged on Monday, but I cannot go home as I could miss my turn in case the state-run tur dal procurement process resumes. I was taken aback to know the process has been winded up as I was given a token on April 22,” said Shinde.
 
 Dnyaneshwar Daund, another farmer from Aurangabad district, said he has a token dated February 8. “Farmers suspect that some manipulation has been taking place while purchasing tur dal from farmers. Several farmers who were in dire need of money had sold their produce to traders at lower prices and these traders are selling it back to the government,” he alleged.
 
 The state-run run tur dal procurement, according to concerned officials, was already extended by a week up to Saturday. Authorities said over 3 lakh quintal tur dal was procured from nearly 15 state-run procurement centres that were operating in Jalna and Aurangabad districts.
 
 The government had offered minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 5,050 per quintal for purchase of tur dal through National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED).
 
 Farmer leader Jayaji Suryawanshi said tur dal running into thousands of quintals was still piled with farmers owing to the bumper crop during the last season.
 
 “The state-run tur dal procurement process was shut for half of the scheduled time due to public holidays and other reasons. It is unjust on part of the government to wind up the facility as farmers are still having loads of produce with them. The government should extend working of state-run tur dal procurement process, failing to which could even lead to incidents of suicides,” he said. 
 
