Nagpur: For the first time, the research centre in department of cosmetic technology at LAD College has received grant of Rs30 lakh for women scientist from the Department of Science and Technology (DST), government of India. This fellowship is given to encourage women scientists who have had a break in their career. It is meant to develop products which are of societal use. The college principal Shyamla Nair told TOI that it was matter of real pride for the college and would go a long way in empowering women. “There are many women who don’t get jobs immediately after their studies. These women can sustain themselves with such fellowships. In this case, Sonal Sanjay Dhabekar, who would be doing her post-doctoral work with the research centre, would be getting Rs19,80,000 which works out to be Rs55,000 per month. This is a good sum for fellowship,” said Nair. The head of the cosmetic technology department Prof Sheela Kulkarni says that the research centre in her department, the first in the subject in the country in 2004, has already produced ten doctorates with five PhD guides. The emphasis in the research so far has been on developing innovative cosmetic products from materials of natural origin. “The fellowship has come under the women scientists’ B scheme in which the researcher is expected to work on developing products which are of societal use. The three-year project under the scheme is aimed at developing range of mosquito repellents using orange peel and certain similar natural raw materials,” said Kulkarni. Dhabekar said that she is planning to develop mosquito repellent coils, liquidators, fresheners, gel, fast cards including repellent clothes. Charita Patil, associate professor in department of chemistry will guide the research. “I had presented the project at the Indian National Science Academy and was selected by the judges. This fellowship is given to only women scientists who would use the research for the benefit of the society. Projects related to science and technology interventions for societal benefit are only selected under the scheme. I am purposely using an environment friendly material for developing the mosquito repellent,” said Dhabekar. In her doctorate research, Dhabekar, who got PhD this May, had worked on encapsulizaton of sprouted wheat and its incorporation in the cosmetic gels. “I used sprouted and dried wheat powder as a natural material for use on skin as a moisturizer, on hair for improving the texture and on nails for smoothening them. I used the wax generated as a by-product from rice bran oil. I mixed the powder into a gel. I got excellent results and I also won a prize on the project in the interuniversity competition of research projects,” said Dhabekar. This projected was guided by Jaishree Hazare, associate professor of cosmetic technology.