CHANDIGARH: Did sharks help the most decorated Olympian of all time Michael Phelps net all those 28 Games medals in the pool? What was pigeon's role in  ' aviation discovery?
If you ask Professor Navin Kumar and his students at IIT-Ropar these questions, they will give you a lecture on Biomimetics, a rela tively new discipline in engineer ing, which is being explored in the institute's laboratory .The professor says Phelps, who will inspire swimmers as long as there is water on earth, wore a swimsuit that mimicked the movement of a shark. The Wright Brothers also spent a great deal of time observing birds' flight be fore designing the world's first plane.
 
 “Not just swim suit, which was in spired by the shark fins, there are a lot of other things in nature which offer beautiful designs for engineering. There are not more than 3-4 groups in India who are working in this interdisciplinary field now,“ said   of the School of Mechanical, Mate rials and Energy Engineering, IIT-Ropar.
 
 The professor and his students start their morning classes, chasing dragonflies and spiders. The team is collaborating with Bharat Bhushan, Ohio Eminent Scholar and   professor in the department of mechanical and aerospace engineering at The Ohio State University. “We have three projects with   who is well experienced in the field,“ said Navin Kumar.
 
 What has caught the attention of these engineers is how does the spider web withstand high humidity, stormy and windy conditions? The thin silky threads which appear so delicate can combat against the high kinetic energy of the flying prey without getting deformed. A study on this by the group has already been published recently in the Journal of the Mechanical Behavior of Biomedical Materials, Elsevier.“The architecture and behaviour of the spider web are very inspiring to artificially mimetic this structure with suitable geometry which could be used as a protective bullet-proof w ear in military applications and surgical sutures for doctors. The silk thread, which is a very smart protein material, can be used in tissue engineering applications,“ said the professor.
 
 In addition, this   group is also experimenting on dragonfly flight. The dragonflies are capable of maneuverable flying and gliding up to 30 second without any notable change of altitude. “The in-depth knowledge about its biomechanical properties of wings can provide significant input for bio mimetic design of Micro Air Vehicle (MAV). The MAV works in numerous important military and civil applications through sensing and gathering information, such as surveillance, rescue, environment monitoring etc,“ said Bhushan. Even wasps find a place in the team's study , which examines the stings that can be used for painless micro needles. “These sting ers are hard and tough, two qualities which can't co-exist usually. Also the venom gets pumped into the wasp's micro channels and then it enters the prey's skin with the stinger.What is this natural pumping system, we want to understand this,“ said Bhushan.
 
 At present, Bhushan and his group in Ohio are working on a skin for aircraft which are also fashioned on Phelps's shark-inspired swimsuit.
 
 “It can reduce drag force and enable the planes to move with greater speed,“ said Navin Kumar.
 
