BHUBANESWAR: Good news for the  , those who are staying in deprived conditions without access to shelter and basic amenities in the city, as the state government will build three   for them. Total 400 beds will be available for them. They can stay here by paying considerably low amount of rent.

 It will come up at three locations- Kharavel Nagar, Sampur and Chandrasekharpur at around four acres of land. Kharavel Nagar will have 200-bed project on one acre of land at an estimated cost of Rs 4.5 crore. The other two will have 100-bed each at an estimated cost of Rs 5.5 crore on 2.6 acres of land.
 
 Chief minister   will lay foundation stone of these projects on the occasion of   on Monday. Besides construction of these projects in the city, the state will build 18 more rental housing projects at nine more urban centres of the state in phase wise, said Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers' Welfare Board ( ) chairman Subash Singh.
 
 Each selected urban centre will have two such projects. The state government has selected four municipal corporations- Cuttack, Berhampur, Rourkela and Sambalpur- for 100-bed housing projects and five municipalities like Jharsuguda, Angul, Dhenkanal, Vyasanagar and Paradip for 50-bed housing complexes.
 OBOCWWB will provide funds for the project, while housing and urban development department will implement the project under the   ( ) scheme.
 
 Singh said most of the labourers migrate from rural areas and work privately in the peripheral area of towns and cities. They either squat on government land or stay in slums with dismal amenities. "Total 21 projects will come up across the state at an estimated cost of around Rs 50 crore. It will solve their housing problems," he added.
 
 He said all basic necessities like drinking water, sanitation, electricity, connectivity and other amenities will be available on shared basis at affordable rent. There will be separate facility for single men, single women and families on dormitory pattern, he added.
 
