AHMEDABAD: The president of  , Bimal Patel, on Saturday wrote a letter to the police, stating that the 14 students caught at an alleged booze party, are among the best in the country and keeping them away from classes would adversely affect their studies. 

 “Cept University is among the best institutions of the   in the country. Most of our students, including these 14, are among the best in the country and have potential to be good future citizens of this country. These students are young, all under the age of 25, and like many young people they are prone to impetuous and carefree behaviour sometimes. This is no excuse to condone breaking the law and if they are indeed guilty of breaking the law, justice should be served appropriately,” said a letter written by Patel to the   (IO) of the case.
 
 “At this stage I wish to bring to your notice that the students have upcoming exams and need to return to their academic precincts. Considering their young age and otherwise high potential for being good citizens their spending too much time away from classes would adversely affect their studies,” added the letter.
 
 However, M U Mashi, inspector of Satellite police, denied having received a written request from Cept University, adding that the students are in judicial custody now.
 
 Sources at the police station said officials from the varsity had visited the police station on Saturday for a copy of the FIR. “University representatives said they needed information to take action against the students at the institution level and wanted the details of the case. We asked them to come with a request on a letterhead,” said a senior official. 
 
 Meanwhile, a metropolitan court granted bail to the five girls who were among the 14 caught at the alleged   in Satellite area on Friday morning. Metropolitan magistrate H N Desai granted bail to the girls but sent the boys to judicial custody. The bail pleas filed by the boys were rejected after the prosecutor argued that with the recent amendment making prohibition more stringent, the provision for punishment is a 10-year jail term in such cases.
 
