THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Teachers have to play the role of new-gen psychologists to ease the pain and stress that students and staff undergo in today’s education system, said chief consultant psychologist and performance coach at   and   Rejuvenation Studio, Vipin V Roldant. He was speaking on the theme application of positive psychology in Classroom at Times   at   in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday.

 The 100-odd teachers, who attended the session, recalled their school days. They were divided into students and teachers to get a taste of the whole process with activities to understand the best methods of moulding students. The approaches were applying positive psychology, cognitive behavioural therapy, empathising with children, introducing strategies that motivate and inspire and introspective moments.
 
 Roldant conducted a gratitude mediation wherein teachers were asked to form mandala mudra, close their eyes and thank all parents, teachers, friends, well-wishers and even those were rude for they helped in one to grow strong. Teachers were made to greet one another ‘athma namasthe’ to spread positive energy.
 
 “Appreciating others and oneself can be uplifting. Rewarding children, pointing out weaknesses after praising their strengths can work wonders. All experience moments of worthlessness and despair. At such moments, active distraction, doing enthusiastic action will come handy. Happiness, love and gratitude trigger optimism by enhancing chemicals in the brain, help one face challenges and increase productivity,” he said
 
 With straws, balloons and thread, Roldant demonstrated how one should engage and connect with others to get better results. “Fears and setbacks have to be overcome. The school curriculum should have ‘well-being’ to boost mental health, prevent depression, promote creativity and foster learning,” he added.
 
  “The session was very enriching and we can apply new strategies to create a stress-free atmosphere,” said a teacher. The event was inaugurated by TOI RMD head, Karnataka, Kerala, Rahul Arora.
 
 
