Nagpur: The telecast of Hindi feature film ‘MIKE’ on Doordarshan on June 9 created a big buzz in the city not just for its quality or content but more for the fact that it was a local production. “The film got a TRP of 6.1 lakh pan India which is quite decent,” says Piyush Pande, the film’s writer producer and director. The film could also generate an advertisement revenue of Rs16 lakh and Pande will be getting a share of that too. “I have been receiving so many calls as other filmmakers are curious to know how the film got selected for national television,” he says.

 It is only recently that this culture of film production has gained ground in Nagpur and Vidarbha with many committed filmmakers dabbling in this medium. “There are many technicians and creative persons from Nagpur who are working in Mumbai film industry and this exposure to cinema comes from there,” says Pande, who studied filmmaking. Terming the new scenario as one where geographical location is not important anymore, Pande says, “All I need is a good script and it can be shot anywhere. People want good stories and if they are hooked to it, the actors become insignificant.”
 
 The local filmmakers are also working around marketing strategies to ensure that their production reaches out. “It is important to select a story which has a pan India appeal,” says writer director Subodh Nagdeve, who is finally getting recognition for his latest production ‘India Bole Jai Bhim’. “The title of my film was such that people in the Hindi belt too got interested,” says Nagdeve, who dubbed it in Hindi and released it on April 14 this year.
 
 “Any subject related to Babasaheb Ambedkar gets popular throughout India. But I targeted small groups who could have an influence on others through word by mouth publicity,” says Nagdeve whose film was got 30 screens across the state. “Four students from JNU came to watch it in Nagpur. They asked me to hold a special screening which I did last month for four universities in Delhi,” he says. Getting calls from Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and even Uttrakhand to hold special screenings, Nagdeve is selecting areas to show his film. “My film got a decent sized audience at Aashirwad and Kamal talkies even when Bahubali 2 was released,” he says.
 
 But lack of experience and understanding of various aspects of filmmaking can be their undoing, feels Dr. Sharayu Pazare, whose film Taatva made in Chandrapur and released in May tanked at the box office. “My film was a tribute to Babasaheb Ambedkar and was dedicated to his statement that, “one who is educated is never afraid to debate.”
 
 Pazare conveyed the message of educational equality through the film. “I have seen how the Wadar community, who are into carving stones have got marginalized over the years. This film aimed to draw focus on them.” But Pazare says that her inexperience in filmmaking made her budget shoot up too. “I did not get the right advice due to which there were technical glitches in the audio quality of my film,” she rues.
 
 Terming these efforts as ones which would lay the foundation for a thriving film industry in the city, Aditya Buty, whose maiden film Shatkone will release in August this year, says, “There is a lot of creativity here, the technical support too is available now. All we need is financial support if corporates and production houses back filmmaking here. Once that begins to happen, many ancillary units will spring up giving a much needed push to the economic activity in this region.”
 
 
