HIMMATNAGAR: Every house in this   rehabilitation colony, ironically named as Mohajir Nagar, near Lalpur village has got   facility. This is not a sign of prosperity, but a result of restrictions imposed by the organizers!

  Khadim Lalpuri, who established the colony and looks after its affairs, doesn’t allow   to 144 houses here. He believes that this would give the residents an easy excess to obscene films and ‘un-Islamic material’. “This is against the sharia,” he said.
 
 This obstinate approach by Lalpuri led the residents to go for DTH connections. 
 
 Muslims from remote villages of Sabarkantha district are settled in five colonies near Himmatnagar. Mohajir Nagar is one of them, 7km from the town. Ironically, once hounded by Hindus, those rehabilitated find life in Mohajir Nagar stifling, this time at the hands of their own community men. There is also restriction on playing music during weddings. 
 
 They belong to the Barelvi or Sufi fold of Islam, whereas Lalpuri and his supporters follow the puritanical school, subscribed by the Deobandis, Wahabis, Ahl-e-Hadees etc.
 
 Niyanmatben Sindhi said that they have to leave for Himmatnagar to observe their traditions on days like Eid-e-Milad, Muharram etc. Sabirkhan Pathan said, “It was just a short-lived problems with the Hindus (in 2002), but now here is a permanent one for us.”
 
 When questioned, Lalpuri said, “I have settled this colony and taught children the religion. I cannot allow the sermons of Sufi sect maulvis to become a common practice here.”
 
 Similar conflict of faiths can be witnessed at many of the 83 rehabilitation colonies in the state. At a colony built by Muslim Relief Organization in   near Palej of Bharuch district, one of its trustees, Idrisbhai Vohra, said that here too people were not allowed to have a television set initially. “Forty-two families have left the colony. Criminal complaints and court litigations have become common because of the conflict,” he said.
 
 Mirkhan Pathan, convener of  , formed to redress issues of rehabilitated people, said, “In some colonies, residents came to terms with their camp managers but the issue lingers on in certain colonies in Bharuch, Anand and Mehsana districts.” In Kifayat Nagar, another colony near Himmatnagar, camp organizers and residents parted ways by building separate mosques.
 
 Shakeel Ahmed Ansari, associated with the Islamic Relief Committee which constructed most of the colonies, said, “If a person has taken so much effort to settle people, it is obvious that he would invite residents to his fold.”
 
