By
 

 At least BBMP’s apathy shows no bias. Whether you are in a posh area or a not-so well-off one, you will have to go through the trials that everybody in a poorly-managed city has to go through.
 
  near Hennur Cross is a luxury living area. But just a few metres away from here  ,   More than 100 people living inside this complex have been repeatedly suffering from diseases such as   And despite the people in the apartment bringing this to the attention of the authorities, little has been done to clean up the area.
 
 Of the 60 houses inside the 9-acre site of the complex, in 40 houses at least two people are suffering from these diseases. Some have been struck by viral arthritis once, while some continue to suffer from dengue despite being treated in hospitals for 2-3 weeks.
 
 Bharathi R Sathyamurthy lives in one of the first houses in the complex. Her husband is recovering from viral arthritis and still has joint pains. Her daughter Anisha just recovered from chikungunya.
 
 A few steps away from Bharathi’s house, lives Sunitha Saiju. Sunitha has been suffering from viral arthritis for well over a month. “I could not even walk for over a month. I have recovered, but still have joint pain,” she said. In Sunitha’s house, she is the only one that fell ill. But Herbert and his son Alleon Herbert, who live just opposite Sunitha’s house, both were down with dengue. “The mosquito problem is tremendous here. We are finding ways to protect ourselves, but could not. Just a few days after I went to hospital for dengue, I had to rush my son to the hospital for the same,” he said.
 
 Charlotte, Herbert’s sister, has been suffering from viral arthritis for one-and-a-half months now.
 
 Next to Herbert lives David Arthur, who had taken his 75-year-old mother Leelamma to the hospital for treatment of dengue. The very next day David was in hospital, down with dengue. He showed BM both his mother’s and his medical reports.
 
 When BM visited the next road, Mr PP Avasthi was not at home. Subramanian Rajappa, a neighbour, said one of his family members was in the hospital too.
 
 AB Subbaiah, former Indian Hockey Team captain, who lives there, too was struck by viral arthritis twice. His daughter Rhea too had got viral arthritis and had to undergo treatment for almost 20 days. Rhea brought out her medical report too for BM to see.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Subbaiah recovered and has since been able to travel. But everybody in his family got at least one bout of viral arthritis. His wife Preeta Subbaiah too fell ill a few days after him.
 
 Charulatha, Secretary, Yash Classic Enclave Residents Association, too is suffering from viral arthritis. “Everyone in my family is suffering from viral arthritis. If you walk up to the next house, you will see my mother in-law and grandmother, who too are unwell,” she said. Subramanian Rajappa, a resident, explains why the cloud of illness is refusing to lift from over the area. Just in front of the residential area is a pile of garbage.
 
 “Do you see this huge pile of garbage? This is the reason behind the mess. This has been the scene here for a few months. This is the shelter for mosquitoes. When the residents wrote to N Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP Commissioner requesting him to attend to the issue, he replied with a cookie-cutter mail. “Your Mail has been received. It has been forwarded to (22975591) jcswmbbmp@gmail.com Jchealth/jcswm.” But so far, no official has attended to the issue.
 
 The KSHRC recently booked a suo motu case against the Commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), seeking a report on the garbage pile up at an empty plot in front of Yash Classic Enclave, Maganahalli, Kalyan Nagar, near the Hennur Cross. The commission had initiated action following Bangalore Mirror’s report ‘Not in my ward’ published on July 18, 2017.
 
