Kolkata: The state government has finally included trams in its ‘Safe Drive Save Life’ mission. A slew of measures has been chalked out in an effort to make   rides safer, including stops at every traffic light and a textured platforms that will make boarding easier for commuters.

 The decision comes in the wake of the death of a hearing-and-speech impaired woman. Jyoti Singh was caught between two trams and run over on Rashbehari Avenue when she was escorting her daughter to the tuition centre on January 17. 
 
 After the accident, the state transport department constituted an expert committee, led by HRBC officials, to look into the matter. A survey was carried out at Rashbehari Avenue, Deshapran Sansmal Road, Ashutosh Mukherjee Road and Diamond Harbour Road. The committee has suggested a two-inch sloping platform for getting on and off the tram. This thickness will earmark an area of 3X3.5m length and 1.5X2m width as the disembarking point when a tram stops at the traffic signals. 
 
 Kolkata’s tram system, run by the Calcutta Tramways Company (CTC) before it was merged with other transport agencies to form the West Bengal Transport Corporation, is India’s only operating tram network and Asia’s oldest. But trams, plagued by several operational issues, continue to be in crisis. For instance, access is difficult for many passengers. Moreover, city’s infrastructural development — building of flyovers — and traffic congestion dealt a body blow to several routes. Though tram speed continued to nosedive, frequent accidents impacted the efficacy of the whole system. Statistics show trams kill or injure over 50 people per year.
 
 “Accessing trams is inconvenient, potentially hazardous, difficult for many and impossible for the disabled. Passengers wait on the pavements and cross the road through a moving traffic when a tram arrives. Once integrated with traffic signals, pedestrian movement can be controlled and there will be better synchronization of different modes of transport,” HRBC chairman Sadhan Bandopadhyay said.
 
 Pilot projects will be implemented at Deshapriya Park and Rashbehari Avenue. “Instead of having tram stops every 200m, the government intends to have stops at the traffic signals,” a senior transport official said.
 
 
