CHANDIGARH: After the struggle for college admission, students at PU have to brace for the struggle for hostel admissions, which is no mean feat. With a total of 1,619 seats available for fresh admissions this year, there are 759 seats for students in girls hostels and 770 seats in boys hostels. The international hostel, which is co-educational, has around 90 seats available for new students. 

 Work on girls hostel number 10 will be completed by August, PU authorities said. This will increase the number of seats for women students in  . They also said no admission will be made in hostels on guest basis. Earlier, students were given admission in hostels on payment of guest charges, to be paid on a daily basis, for their stay. The practice will be discontinued from the 2017-18 session. 
 
 "After work is completed at girls' hostel number 10, which is the Sector 25 campus of the University, we will get an additional 350 seats. There is more demand of accommodation for girls," said dean, student welfare (DSW) Prof Emanual Nahar. 
 
 From the 2017-18 academic session, administrative staff will be able to apply online for hostel allocation. However, students won't be able to do so. They will follow the same procedure of submitting a hostel form in their respective departments. 
 
 After this, staff at the department will login to the portal using the login id password made for the  . The staff member will look for hostel availability and tell students immediately about the   
 
 The University has also submitted a proposal to the ministry of   and empowerment to get grants for construction of one block each in girls hostel number 5 and boys hostel number 9. The varsity has sought Rs 4 crore for construction of one block in the girls hostel and Rs 17 crore for the construction of a boys hostel. Grants have been sought under Babu Jagjivan Ram Chattrawas Yojana of the ministry of social justice and empowerment. 
 
 The University has also sought grants to increase the accommodation for   and weaker sections of society. At present, there are 1,860 boys in PU hostels who have sought admission under the category of SC/ST and other weaker sections and 1,490 girls in PU hostels belonging to the same category.
 
