AHMEDABAD: A year after four patients were permanently blinded in botched cataract surgeries at LG Hospital, things continue to move in circles as the Food and Drugs laboratory in Vadodara stands by their certification of the disinfectant used in the surgeries as being of ‘standard quality’, while   authorities, who tested the disinfectant claim it carried gram negative bacteria. The report has now raised more questions than providing answers for this unusual occurrence.

 A yearlong probe, involving biochemists, doctors and medical practitioners into the LG hospital blinding cases in March last year summarized the incident before the standing committee this Thursday. For the victims who lost their eyesights forever, owing to the bacterial infection this is nothing more than a cruel joke.
 
 Strangely, the potent disinfectant used world over, Chlorhexidine solution, according to BJ medical college biochemists, had infected the surgical instruments used for the cataract surgeries!
 
 Learning this is no consolation for the victims  , 41, Kulsum Momin, 75,  , 84, and  , 62, who have lost their vision. 
 
 Documents available with TOI show that on June 15 last year, certified government analyst B V Mistry of the Food and Drugs laboratory in Vadodara held the disinfectant “is of standard quality as defined in the drugs and cosmetics Act 1940.” Mistry further states that the disinfectant had 98.8% Chlorhexidine Gluconate and 103.93% of another ingredient called Cetirimide.
 
 But the following month, on July 25, 2016, the head of the department of microbiology at BJ Medical college conducted tests on the solution and in its report to the AMC’s NHL medical college claimed that “there were gram negative bacteria in the disinfectant.” The report mentioned the presence of Achromobacter species of bacteria.
 
 Chlorhexidine solution is normally used for temporarily dipping surgical instruments soon after autoclave -- to be safe from last minute infections before surgery.
 
 Contrary to the team findings, all over the world Chlorhexidine is known to deactivate micro-organisms over a broader spectrum than other antimicrobials, and has a quicker kill rate than common antimicrobials like Povidone-iodine. Chlorhexidine kills by disrupting the cell membranes of bacteria. 
 
 Upon application Chlorhexidine can kill nearly 100% of gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria within 30 seconds! But strangely , LG Hospital's Chlorhexidine failed to act on the contaminants--called Pseudomonas bacteria - gram-negative bacteria that caused the blinding.
 
