TRICHY: The city corporation plans to use oil balls to curb the   menace. Soaked in crude oil, the balls made of jute bags, are dropped in stagnant water, which is a breeding ground for mosquitoes. The move has come in the wake of complaints from residents of  , especially those living on either side of the  . 

 Oil balls are made after stuffing saw dust into jute bags. It is further soaked in waste crude oil for nearly a week. These balls are then dropped on the target location to form a layer of oil. 
 
 Trichy corporation commissioner N Ravichandran said that the measure has proven effective to check breeding of mosquitoes as they are eliminated in the larva stage itself. By forming a layer over water, oxygen supply is barred for larva floating in the water. 
 
 “We have identified about 1600 places across the city. Most of them are in   where there is stagnation of water,” said a city corporation sanitary inspector.
 
 While the river is dry, whatever flows into it now is nothing but sewage let out by residents living on either side. The river is subjected to gross pollution in its 12km stretch in the city but the worst affected stretch is from   till Ariyamangalam.
 
 Residents let their sewage directly into the canal due to the absence of an underground drainage channel. However, the water level has increased in recent days following brief spells of rain.
 
 Mosquito menace has been reported in places like Ramalinga Nagar, Srinivasa Nagar, Renga Nagar and areas surrounding Retta Vaikal. This is despite the high temperature when breeding activity is usually low.
 
 “Massive drive against Prosopis Julifllora (seemai karuvelam) in the recent days has emptied unoccupied plots. But due to rain, many of these plots have stagnant water. 
 
 “More than 1000 oil ball have been kept ready for use,” said the sanitary inspector.
 
 While mosquito larvicidal oil (MLO) is available in the market, it costs a bomb. Therefore, the corporation has decided to utilize waste oil generated in the vehicle shed of the civic body. Further, crude oil is also available locally in mechanic shops. This is a much cheaper option to curtail mosquito menace.
 
