MEERUT: In a major relief to patients suffering from chronic kidney diseases, a 14-bedded new   was inaugurated on Thursday at the   district hospital. The initiative, that cost Rs 1.5 crore to the private player,  , has come in the backdrop of the government's plan to start dialysis units at state-run hospitals on public-private-partnership model. 

  UP has a severe shortage of dialysis facility It is a life-saving process for patients suffering from kidney failure. As per estimates available with the health department, there are 1.83 lakh patients in need of dialysis in UP but only 150 machines are available and a majority of them is in the private sector. 
 
  As per rules, there should be 120 dialysis machines per 1,000 patients, which mean UP requires nearly 20,000 machines to help its patients suffering from kidney ailments. The project cost Rs1.5 crore and not only uses ultra-modern machinery but also video conferencing sessions with the patients who need a doctor's advice. 
 
  Giving details, Dr PK Bansal, superintendent-in-chief, PL Sharma hospital, said, "This dialysis unit not only uses the latest machines but also has the latest Reverse Osmosis (RO) process in place of the water used for dialysis, so much so that it can be used for IV (intravenous) drips. The initiative will help the poor who otherwise have to spend over Rs 2,500 for the procedure in a private hospital." 
 
  The hospital already had a small four-bedded dialysis unit in place but with older technology and machinery. The patients in this unit were charged Rs 400 for every dialysis. Now, use of the new dialysis unit will be free of cost for patients. The government will, in fact, pay the private partner, Heritage Hospitals, a sum of Rs 1,050 per dialysis. "We use pex (cross-linked polyethylene) piping for RO system in a manner that the pipes are not inclined at right angle so not much friction is produced at the ends, thereby leading to less chances of bacteria formation and hence there is good quality of water for the process," said Dr DK Sinha, medical director, Heritage Hospitals. The dialysis unit already had seven patients at the time of its inauguration by Meerut divisional commissioner  , since registrations were being invited since March. The new dialysis unit has 10 machines in place. 
 
