AHMEDABAD: Numbers are a deciding factor everywhere and Amdavadis pride in their personalised number plates. But an “offensive” number plate that isn’t an “honest reflection of its owner” has played havoc in their lives and left them visibly embarrassed. Following complaints from uneasy and self-conscious Amdavadis stuck with their ‘420’ number plates,  , Ahmedabad, is planning to scrap the number ‘0420’ from its system, making it the first RTO in the country to do so, an RTO official claimed. The number 420 is considered “nasty” because of its association with   (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property).

 Around 350 two-wheelers and four-wheelers in the city sport the number ‘0420’. According to D H Yadav, assistant regional transport officer, Ahmedabad, “We have been receiving the maximum complaints and inquiries relating to vehicle registration number ‘420’. Since Section 420 of IPC deals with cheating, people don’t want to be associated with that number, but we also have some instances of people paying additional amount to avail of the number.” There are two series of number plates that people have to pay extra to avail of — Golden and Silver, Yadav said.
 
 Golden series contains one number like 999, 9999, 1111 and Silver has numbers like 1234, 3366. But 420 does not fall in any series and will be given in the normal course of allotment. ‘We dread to take it out’ It’s been over three years that senior citizen Rashmikant Doshi (62) has bought an i10 car, but to this day Doshi or his son Nirav find it discomfiting to take it out. Everybody was elated in the family that a new car is coming home. But the euphoria did not last long. “After my son received a text message from the RTO that GJ-1RC-0420 is our vehicle registration number, the joy of owning a new vehicle suddenly crash-landed.
 
 We became the not-so-proud owners of the car,” Doshi said. In the initial months, the Doshis were not ready to take their car out. Now, over three years later, they are still to come to terms with it. “Whenever we take the car to a function, people would glance at our car number and then stare at us. Some would even pass comments. It becomes very embarrassing,” the 62-year-old said. Doshi believes ‘420’ is bad omen, and even hotels remove that number from their rooms, he says. “If the RTO is thinking of doing away with that number, then they are on the right track and should expedite it.”
 
 Mahesh Thakkar (32) of Parasmani Apartments in Ghatlodia has been riding his motorcycle without a number plate for the past four months. The reason: He is mortified to display GJ-01 LY 0420 that he received through SMS on October 25, last year. For 15 days, the number was a matter of discussion at home. Thakkar, who owns an electrical shop, had bought a Bajaj Vikrant bike in October last year. Desperate to get the registration number changed, he approached an agent who misguided him saying it can be changed if he shelled out money.
 
 But then he visited the RTO office and found out that once a number is allotted it cannot be changed. Troubled that someone will see the number and make fun of him, he has not got the number plate made for the past four months. Thakkar has been stopped thrice by the police and he has paid Rs 1,000 in fines. “Finally, I have decided to get number plate made,” he said. Then there are others who consider the number lucky because it adds up to 6. Businessman Afroz Shah (35) spent Rs 3,000 to get the number ‘0420’ for his Fiat Punto. Shah who owns a Scorpio realised it the hard way that “what may be lucky for me, might not be for others”.
 
 The businessman found that he was unable to sell his Scorpio, which also has the number plate ‘0420’. “It’s good if the RTO is planning to do away with the number plate ‘420’. But if people prefer to buy it, they should be given,” he said. How agents fool the system Agents know the functioning at the RTO and keep their customers informed how to skip certain numbers. An agent on condition of anonymity said, “When a new series opens, we inquire if the number ‘420’ has been picked up by someone or has been allotted.
 
 If not, then we alert our customers to wait for some days till the unlucky number has been passed on to some unsuspecting person.” Before they remove ‘420’ from their software, the RTO will take into consideration the opinion of the customers and the general public. “Once we receive their views, we will zero in on the decision.   will become the first RTO in the country to decide to omit ‘420’ from its system,” claimed Yadav.
 
