 might not have vision is his right eye and his left eye has only partial vision. But, that hasn’t deterred the 13-year-old from inspiring others with his motivational speeches. A popular orator in the city, the 9th standard student from Sri Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya has been giving encouraging talks.

 Sabari hails from an agricultural family from Vadakkakadu in Pollachi. After his birth, his father K Srinivas and his mother S Neelaveni shifted base to Coimbatore. “We shifted to the city to take care of Sabari. He was always a bright child. When he was a small kid, he took part in a Swami Vivekananda competition. He became popular after the contest where he impressed the audience and judges with his knowledge of the spiritual leader. He considers Swami Vivekananda and the late president APJ Abdul Kalam as his role models,” says Srinivas.
 
 “I was six years old then,” pitches in Sabari. “As I learnt about Swami Vivekananda, I tried to understand the meaning of the verses as well. I soon started giving motivational speeches. I have given more than 150 speeches across Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry. My speeches mainly revolve around self-confidence and are always interactive & jovial. My audience has always been co-operative. Sometimes, when I finish my speech, people come and ask me about boosting one’s self esteem, especially school children. I also address certain issues plaguing the society. In fact, I enjoy talking about them.”
 
 Sabari’s dream is to become a civil servant when he grows up. “I want our country to become the leading nation. I can do that if I become an IAS officer. If not, I will become a journalist and write to create a better society,” says the teenager. Interestingly, Prime Minister   had met Sabari last year when he was enroute Palakkad for his election campaign. “I requested him to give me few tips on good administration and asked how I could become like him. He said he would guide me and that I need not worry about it.”
 
 In school, Sabari friends have words of praise for him. “They see my stories on newspapers and appreciate me. I don’t tell them about all my speeches but when they come to know about it, they feel happy.” Sabari was recognised with the ‘Creative Child with Disabilities’ award by the   in 2015.
 
