MADURAI: As many as 49 people were injured, seven of them severely, in the   held at Palamedu on Thursday after a gap of two years. Egged on by a vociferous crowd, 354 bulls and 1,525 tamers set the arena on fire as the village celebrated the return of the traditional sport.

 An enthusiastic crowd thronged both sides of the barricades leading from the vadivasal as the best bull tamers and bulls were identified and rewarded by the event committee. These bull tamers were selected based on the number of bulls they tamed adhering to the rules and regulations laid down by the state government. A whopping 850 bulls registered to take part in the event though only 354 could finally make it to the arena. Many bulls returned due to time constraints as the event was stopped by 4 pm. Among the registered bulls, only 415 were screened by the medical team out of which 61 were declared unfit. Similarly, out of the 1,673 registered bull tamers, only 1,525 were declared qualified. All the tamers declared as fit were given opportunity to take part in the event on shift basis. 
 
 It was the real pongal for villagers of Palamedu and surrounding villages which wore a festive look. The jallikattu organising committee did not forget the part played by students and the men and women who hit the road and staged protest for holding the event. Apart from the poster thanking them, committee members expressed their gratitude through announcements. 
 
 Although arrangements were made adhering to the rules of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2017, a few things did go haywire. In many areas, barricades weakened as the tamers clung to them to escape from the bull attack. Police personnel failed to follow the orders of their higher-ups strictly as they freely allowed the public to climb onto media gallery leading to its collapse twice. 
 
 What stood apart in this year’s jallikattu was the dream prize of Royal Enfield bullet bike for the tamers. Two people were handed over the bike at the end of the competition. While it is usual for the bull tamers to risk their life to prove their mettle, this year the competition was even stiffer as they targeted the two-wheeler prizes. 
 
 R Karuppanan from Arittapatti was adjudged the best tamer at the event. He was followed by   from Mudalaikulam, P Senthil from Manampatti, V Prabakaran from Melur and K Silambarasan from Chinna Oorseri. Bulls belong to P Rajasekar, Anbu from Sikkandarchavady, Ayyadurai from Boothakudi, Selvan from   and Karuppusamy from Uthukudi were adjudged the best five.
 
 
