CHANDIGARH: Exulting after the 77-seat landslide victory in the assembly elections, Punjab chief minister Captain   on Saturday still looked in no mood to prattle off his party’s triumph.

 Amarinder and his council of ministers went with a populist move to remove red beacons from all official vehicles. However, the vehicle ferrying the Punjab CM and the chief justice and judges of the Punjab and Haryana high court would still be fitted with the red beacon.
 
 After taking oath as Delhi chief minister in 2013 and 2015, Aam Aadmi Party ( ) supremo   had announced that neither he nor his ministers would sport any beacon on their official vehicles.
 
 A Punjab cabinet note on Saturday said, “Red beacon light on all vehicles in Punjab, except emergency hospital, ambulance, fire brigade vehicles, the vehicles of CM, the chief justice and judges of Punjab and Haryana high court would be abolished.”
 
 “It was a decision taken by me and Manpreet Singh Badal when we proposed this idea for the manifesto. We are glad it has been accepted,” said Charanjit Singh Channi, Chamkaur Sahib MLA and technical education minister.
 
 Embattled with a debt-ridden state, Amarinder has also announced to ban foreign travel for all ministers, MLAs and officials at the state government expense for two years, with a rider of “tours of bilateral agreement.”
 
 The chief minister has also announced to make public the salary, allowances and monthly reimbursements received by all MLAs on the government website. “All MLAs and MPs would declare their immovable properties on January 1 every year and for the current year, they will declare it by July 1” said the cabinet note.
 
 The Congress government has also announced a new protocol on foundation stone-laying ceremony and inaugurations by legislators and ministers, saying “only the President, vice-president, union cabinet ministers, CM and state cabinet ministers can lay the stone.” This means that the MLAs can’t hold state functions on new buildings or complexes in Punjab.
 
 
