AHMEDABAD: The   (AMC) on Monday claimed that between June and July, 15 1,221 Amdavadis had suffered from malaria, but none succumbed to the infection. When TOI approached the city’s public hospitals — including the two government-run hospitals —   were revealed.

  Two deaths were reported at LG Hospital— where the victims were Amraiwadi residents. The third case was reported from VS   where the victim was from Vatva. If this is how Gujarat plans to be ‘Malaria free Gujarat by 2022 ” — by under-reporting malaria cases —there will be serious public health implications.
 
 A 25-year-old from Vatva, Anuradha Yadav, succumbed to a grade-3 malaria infection at VS Hospital on July 13. Yadav died of multiple organ dysfunction. Dr Maharshi Desai, a critical care specialist at a private hospital said, “In case of grade-3, the parasitic load on blood cells is extremely high which leads to a decline in the patient’s immunity making one more susceptible to other infections.”
 
  authorities confirmed the death of 45-year-old Chakradhar Shukla on June 23, from multiple organ dysfunction owing to malaria. Similarly, 55-year-old Asha Devidas, a resident of Amraiwadi, succumbed to pancytopenia caused by malaria on July 5.
 
 Bhavin  , medical officer of AMC’s health department, said, “There may be other reasons for the deaths of these patients or even migration history and other health complications. Hence, we do not consider them as valid malarial deaths.”
 
 City-based general practitioner, Dr Manoj Vithlani, said, “When malaria infection spreads extensively, platelet and white, red blood cell counts drop below normal, causing haemoglobin levels to drop significantly. In such cases, extreme complications such as pancytopenia — deficiency of all three cellular components in the blood — may occur.”
 
 In 2015, LG Hospital alone had reported 10 malaria deaths which has been reported in a research study conducted by observing 100 malaria patients. Nine died at the same hospital because of falciparum malaria, while one died from malaria caused by Plasmodium vivax. 
 
 The study was conducted by Hiren Pandya and Prashant Bhansali of the hospital’s department of medicine claimed that complications like organ dysfunction, anaemia, hypoglycaemia, coma, convulsions, lactic acidosis hyperparasitaemia, and leucocytosis were some of the factors that led to higher morbidity or mortality. The AMC in 2015, reported zero deaths.
 
