PUNE: Sweden has evinced keen interest in partnering with India in its smart cities   and suggested a common plan of action for utilising its   in promoting sustainable and   public   

 The European country’s suggested plan of action also covers the solid waste management sector for the   being developed. Pune is one of the smart cities selected by the Union government as part of its  . 
 
 A press statement issued by the Union urban development department has stated that Sweden’s Minister of European Union Affairs and Trade Ann Linde recently met urban development minister M Venkaiah Naidu and held detailed discussions on possible areas of cooperation in respect of development of smart cities. 
 
 Sweden and India had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) in 2015 to promote sustainable urban development and Smart City Mission.
 
 Sweden is a global leader in terms of waste management, urban mobility solutions, smart parking systems, air filtration, real time information systems and command and control systems. These are are integral to the smart city plans of the Indian cities. Swedish company SCANIA would soon be operating 55 buses run on ethanol in Nagpur.
 
 Stating that India’s Smart City Mission offered ample opportunities for investments to both Indian and foreign companies, Naidu said the selected smart cities would be happy to benefit from Swedish technologies and particularly, in areas of public transport and solid waste management. 
 
 He urged the visiting minister to advise Swedish companies to reach out to the respective cities for partnering in implementation of their smart city plans.
 
 The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is already preparing a concrete plan on garbage management that will be submitted to the state government. Sources in the civic body said the PMC might seejk help of international agencies and Sweden could provide necessary innovative technology.
 
 The PMC might also ask the Union government to help the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) to bolster the city’s transport system. The PMC officials have already sought help from Gadkari, who is working with the Sweedish company to improve public transport system in Nagpur. 
 
 As part of the Smart City Mission, the PMC is looking for sustainable solutions to problems related to garbage management and transport system. 
 
