GHAZIABAD: After launching the Rs 1 crore Nirmal   Kosh (Clean  ) in Meerut earlier this week, divisional commissioner Prabhat Kumar on Thursday set the ball rolling by discussing the modalities of a comprehensive plan to rejuvenate the river with some of the stakeholders.

 Kumar met top officials of the distritct administration, pollution board, the Ghaziabad Development Agency (GDA) and Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation (GMC) in a bid to get the agencies in Ghaziabad district on board. 
 
 “I have asked the development authorities of all six districts through which the Hindon passes to contribute to the Nirmal Hindon Kosh and to begin with a corpus amount of Rs 1 crore have been allocated to it. We are also in talks with officials from ‘Namami Gange’ project and have requested them to divert some money to this fund,” Kumar said.
 
 During the meeting, Kumar proposed the formation of committees for the purpose such as one for resource management which will take charge of manpower for the Hindon project. 
 
 “An attempt will be made to create awareness among the villagers who live on the banks of the Hindon and to encourage them to participate in the cleansing of the Hindon,” Kumar said.
 
 A massive plantation drive will be carried out on the Hindon banks along Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Baghpat and GB Nagar districts. “The district magistrates of these districts have been instructed to identify land for plantation and remove all encroachment on its bank,” Kumar said. “I have asked GDA to form separate Hindon plain anti-encroachment team to clear encroachments from its banks,” Kumar said.
 
 Hindon, which is also known as Harnandi, is the rain-fed river that originates from Saharanpur and flows through Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Baghpat and Ghaziabad, before emptying in the Yamuna in Gautam Budh Nagar district.
 
 Owing to the high level of pollution, the river had earned the status of ‘dead river’ and its water was declared ‘unfit’ even for bathing, according to a report by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) in 2015.
 
 Though environmentalists are upbeat about the administration’s new-found zest to cleanse the Hindon, they believe that unless polluting units on the   are shut down the situation will not improve. 
 
 “According to the report of the pollution board, there are about 265 polluting industrial units — fabrics, tannery, paper, sugar and distillery — which are major sources of pollution and unless stern action is taken against them things will not improve,” said Vikrant Sharma, from Jal Biradari.
 
 “Untreated sewage and municipal solid waste from the heavily populated cities on its banks, especially Ghaziabad and Noida, are being discharged into the river and this is another area the administration needs to focus on,” Sharma said.
 
 The river became a victim of pollution in the 1990s and within two decades it was termed a ‘dead river’. In a study submitted to the ministry of environment and forests in May 2016, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had identified the Yamuna and Hindon as the most polluted among 13 rivers in UP. The CPCB has identified polluted stretches in 13 rivers, affecting 37 towns and cities of the state.
 
 
