BENGALURU:   is a relatively   that affects one in 100 people, but is poorly understood and rarely discussed.  , a student of St Joseph's College of Arts and Science, who believes running away from endless stammer bouts is never an option, is on a mission to change the social set-up for those who suffer from this condition. As a person who's been fighting this problem since the age of seven, she had little inkling that a college project would turn into an inspiring social initiative.

 Along with her classmates, Arianne has launched an initiative to educate the public about persons who stammer (PWS). “The objective is not to put pressure on PWS to overcome stammering but to make them feel comfortable and relaxed in an environment they deserve. We don't force a physically disabled person to walk, hence we shouldn't pressure anyone to overcome their stammer,“ said Arianne. The campaign ­   ­ looks to highlight what PWS go through.
 
 It has reached over 2,000 on the social media, not only garnering interest from Bengalureans but also from other states. The campaign, which was incepted last November and launched on January 9, has been running in collaboration with Dr Preeja Balan of the Octave Hearing and Speech Therapy Centre.
 
 “Stammering is caused due to various reasons; trauma, neurogenic disorders, pressure during child development etc. PWS are mocked, ridiculed and basically not understood.This campaign wants to bring to light what PWS undergo, the battle that they have to fight every day. The aim is to empower PWS, show them that they aren't alone, and that they can own it,“ she said.
 
 “Stuttering lowers confidence and makes one stammer more. Stammering controlled me for a large part of my formative years. A platform like Be Patient could have helped me realize that I could actually control it (stammering),“ said Shreyas Koti, a strategist working for an American company.
 
 According to Febin Peter, a software engineer, the campaign made him realize, he was not alone. “It's a great initiative urging people to be patient with a person who stammers.“
 
 However, the initial days of the project was not so smooth.“This campaign has been such an emotional and empowering journey for me. This will go on, because there's never too much awareness. The second half of the campaign will feature a gallery of artworks on stammering. We had held a talk last month at the college where cinematographer Vikram Rai and speech pathologist Preesha Purushothaman were present,“ Arianne said.
 
