JAISALMR/JODHPUR: The   will present its reply in the court as per the law, said   DG KK Sharma. The DG was speaking in context to the petition filed by BSF constable Tej Bahadur Yadav’s wife   at the  , which agreed for an early hearing into the matter. 

 The petition follows alleged attempts by Tej Bahadur’s family that they have not been able to contact him for the past three days and that the BSF has not responded to two letters inquiring about him. Tej Bahadur came into limelight after he had posted a video on Facebook alleging that almost inedible food is served to soldiers at the frontline. 
 
 “We have a mechanism for registering the complaints or grievances with an assured redressal and jawans should strictly adhere to this mechanism instead of posting them on the social media platforms for public view,” said Sharma.
 
 According to Sharma, a court of inquiry is on against Bahadur who is currently with the BSF at Shambha area in Jammu.
 
 Over alleged irregularities in the BSF’s mess funds, Sharma said there have been reports of misuse and irregularities of the fund at few places and an investigation is being carried out. 
 
 Taking serious note of jawans putting their complaints on social media, he warned them not to do so and said if any jawan puts his complaint on any social media then strict action will be taken against him. “The BSF has a very strong Grievance Redressal System where all the problems are solved,” he said.
 
 Sharma added that Bahadur’s family has complete knowledge of him and that a court of inquiry is on. During a court of inquiry, any jawan is not permitted to go home. “His position is at Shambha and a reply to Bahadur’s wife petition will be given in the court,” he said.
 
 Sharma who had come to inaugurate national fire power competition at Jaisalmer’s Kishangarh said the BSF’s food is good and anybody can go to border post and taste the food. “If anybody does not get good food then he can complain to me,” he said. After Bahadur’s complaint a check was done for the food served at few places and it has come to light that mess funds are being misused or being used under other heads.
 
