NEW DELHI: Delhi’s AAP deputy chief minister   was in for a surprise when he visited a government school and interacted with students on the eve of National Girl Child Day.

 “Whom and what do we need to protect our daughters from?” asked Sisodia of a group of school children yesterday.
 
 “From orthodox and backward thinking,” they answered.
 
 
  
  
 
 It appears that Sisodia, who later tweeted about this interaction, was more than pleasantly surprised to hear the students’ answer. 
 
 “The children themselves said: To save girl children, its isn’t society or the country that needs to be transformed, it’s the thinking inside our homes that needs to be changed,” Sisodia narrated.
 
 The deputy chief minister marveled: “Today, all of these children went home taking with them a whole new way of thinking."
 
 
  
  
 
 “Now,” he said, “imagine if the 26 lakh children studying in Delhi’s schools currently develop this way of thinking toward the next generation of girls. That’s what I would call a successful education,” Sisodia tweeted.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 At his interaction with the school kids, Sisodia also heard students’ views on the previous, the future and the coming generation of girls and women. “It was an extremely interesting conversation,” Sisodia said.
 
 The deputy chief minister left the school, thrilled. He said his hope and wish is that these students think critically about issues to with girl children.
 
  “They should critically look and see how their own families have bettered the manner in which they treat girl children. They should also look to see what their own contribution toward this effort can be,” Sisodia concluded.
 
 
  
  
 National Girl Child Day will be celebrated today at a special event organized by the ministry of women and child development. 
 
  "With a commendable performance at the Olympics and Paralympics and a historic induction of the first female fighter pilots into the Indian Air Force, it has truly been a proud year for India," the ministry said in a pres statement.
 
 
 The ministry also released a short video with a message from Olympics medal winner  .
 
 
  
  
 
 The ministry released a similar message from wrestler  .
 
 
  
 
 
 PM Modi also tweeted his best wishes on the day.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
