CHENNAI: Two months since the announcement on demonetisation, the city may have turned weary queuing up outside ATMs and struggling to adapt to complex cashless transaction apps, but none of this grind should impact the finer pleasures of life, such as reading, believes  .

 Treasurer of The Book Sellers and Publishers Association of South India (BAPASI), which has been organising the Chennai Book Fair for 39 years, he says its latest and 40th edition starting January 6 has just been made many notches user-friendly.
 
 “Our first and immediate concern was the cash crunch resulting from demonetisation. So we introduced an internal token system in denominations of Rs 10, Rs 20, Rs 50 and Rs 100, which can be bought to purchase books and snacks,“ he says.
 
 “Also, since many stall owners have been unable to get their own point of sale (POS) machines in recent months, we have increased our own POS machines to 50 this year,“ he adds.
 
 This year, the book fair will be put up at St. George's School on Periyar EVR High Road and will go on till January 19. Of the 700 stalls, a major share, as always, will be taken up by Tamil publishers. The reason, says Gopalakrishnan, is that they form the majority members of BAPASI.
 
 “Tamil publishers are usually apprehensive about exploring contemporary platforms such as Kindle, and a fair like this one ends up offering tremendous scope for the audiences they target,“ he says.
 
 Tamil writer S Ramak rishnan, whose books will be a part of the fair this year, also believes that the option to digitise books -something authors across the world are increasingly transitioning to -must come from Tamil publishers.
 
 “Tamil publishers find it hard to understand the technology or the market it merits. Most small towns in the state do not have bookstores offering serious Tamil literature such as those by   or Jeyamohan,“ says Ramakrishnan “In Chennai, they're available only at select bookstores. This is what makes a book fair like this one highly sought after,“ he says.
 
 Additionally, Gopalak rishnan's publishing house, Emerald Publishers, has in troduced a novel way to lessen wastage and warehouse costs of non-selling books this year.
 
 “In short, I will print 12 copies of a book using the high-speed electrographic technology , as against 1,000 copies using offset printing.If the book sells out consistently, then I'll print more copies using offset printing,“ he says.
 
 In another upgrade, the stall area at the Chennai Book Fair will be divided into two units housing five entrances each, and a loungelike area for visitors to relax between shopping.
 
 Even the parking space has been extended on to the Pachaiyappa's College campus, from where vans will be deployed to take visitors to the fair area.
 
 “We want to address every problem and increase participation,“ says  .
 
