KANPUR: The father of terror suspect Saifullah, killed in a 12 hour operation in Lucknow on Wednes day, said his son was a traitor and refused to accept his body for last rites.   is suspected to be linked to Tuesday's   in which 10 people were injured.

 “I heard about the death of my son in the encounter,“ said Sartaj, who works at a tannery in Jajamau. “He brought infamy not only to us but to the entire nation. Jo kaam usne kiya ...hum usse naraaz hain. Aise deshdrohi ki laash hum nahin lenge (what he did has angered us. We won't accept the body of a traitor).“ Sartaj has two more sons -Khalid and Habeed who are married and live with him. Both work in private firms. Khalid told TOI, “I got a phone call from ATS who asked me to convince Saifullah to surrender but he did not listen. I wept on the phone and tried to tell him how much our father and family were suffering because of him, but in vain. Police said he won't surrender, he wanted `martyrdom'.“
 
 Khalid said everyone in the family and their neighbourhood was in a state of shock. “He was well-behaved, prayed five times a day . Nobody expected this from him,“ Khalid said.
 
 Saifullah was a commerce graduate from Manohar Lal Post-Graduate College in Jajmau and was preparing for an accounts course, said family members. He was suspected to have links to the IED blast in Bhopal-Ujjain train on Tuesday . “Two and a half months ago, Saif left home after I scolded him and even slapped him for not finding work,“ said Sartaj. “A few days ago, I got to know that he had left for Mumbai. He called on Monday and said he'd got a visa for Saudi Arabia. I told him if it's your wish, then go ahead,“ he said, recalling their last conversation on phone. Saifullah had said he wanted to work there as a driver.
 
 SP Somen Verma said they might convince Saiful lah's family members again to accept his body . Two of Saifullah's cousins, Faisal and Imran, who live in Tiwaripur Tadbagiya locality in Jajmau, were also arrested on Tuesday . Their father Naseem, a retired school teacher, said both were innocent. Police also arrested Shakeel, alias Asghar, from Rahmani market close to Talaq Mahal in Kanpur, but he escaped in the melee after some shopkeepers staged a protest. Police said they were trying to trace him. 
 
