Bhopal: The scathing CAG report on Vyapam has triggered another round of political slugfest in Madhya Pradesh, which is headed for election in about 18 months.

 The Opposition Congress, which has been raising the   repeatedly over the past five years, on Friday said it finally “saw light at the end of the dark tunnel”.
 
 Leader of opposition Ajay Singh said, “This is a very damning report. The Shivraj Singh Chouhan government now stands fully exposed.”
 
  president Arun Yadav said   central leadership has now got a taste of its own medicine. “We remember how after CAG report on coal block allocation, BJP did not let Parliament function and ferociously attacked the UPA government and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. It is now to be seen how BJP reacts to the CAG’s observations on Vyapam and its manipulations by the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government,” Yadav told TOI.
 
 State Congress chief spokesman KK Mishra added, “Congress has been constantly raising the issue of the Rs 9,000 crore Vyapam scam. To protect the politically influential, documents were destroyed and records tampered with. The CAG’s observations, proves the Congress party’s allegations on Vyapam and its connections with the government. CAG and its report have brought the entire scam in the open.
 
 The CAG’s Vyapam report could give the Opposition, mainly Congress, an opportunity to corner the government ahead of the assembly elections. In fact, the Vyapam scam that came to light in July 2013 has been tagged as one of the “most blatant and extensive rigging exercises” ever uncovered in the country.
 
 It was the last day of budget session when the CAG in a press conference, disclosed its observations about government’s control over the PEB, role of higher authorities in the Mantralaya and selection procedure of officials appointed in Vyapam.
 
 “I cannot comment on the CAG observations as yet. We have to see what the auditors have stated on what basis. But I must say that the government has done as per the law by providing transparency, excessive funds to run the board and helped in the image making process, which was very important,” said Sharad Jain, MoS medical education, who has been parrying questions on medical admissions.
 
 Jain refused to divulge the government stand on CAG’s allegations that auditors were denied access to records. Cabinet ministers, officials and spokepersons of the government refused to comment on this burning issue.
 
 “I cannot comment on Vyapam. This is a very serious matter and we have just done with the Budget session proceedings so cannot say anything,” said a senior cabinet minister.
 
 But BJP is ready to face the challenges. Party state spokesperson   defended government action. “What the government has done in Vyapam or PEB was as per legal procedure. The government is following the rules and there is no discrepancy,” said Vijayavargiya.
 
