NAGPUR: The third edition of two-day theatre festival was organized by The   in association with Insignia productions at   on Saturday and Sunday. Four plays with myriad themes, written and directed by students of the college, were staged before an audience that comprised students from Hislop.

 Day One saw two presentations, a 30-minute play ‘Anhonee’ based on WW Jacob’s story ‘Monkey’s Paw’ which was directed by Melwyn Kirath. 
 
 Dealing with the super-natural where a blue rose substitutes the paw, the plot played on the same lines as the original where a family is struck by death and devastation due to a wish made to the blue rose.
 
  The second presentation, ‘Such is Life’, was a slice of life story which had liberal doses of romance, heartbreak and deceit with all ending well. The 12 actors, including   who heads the Hislop Centre for Performing Arts, in delightful cameo of a Parsee father, livened up the stage. 
 
 Written and directed by Rahuldev Mukherjee and Harsh Mahatme, the play deftly dealt with different aspects of family life.
 
 ‘PropoJhol’ and ‘Vayjanti’ were the two plays presented on the second day of the festival on Sunday. An adaptation of Antov Chekov’s ‘The Marriage Proposal’, ‘PropoJhol’ was set in a Bengali family and had Rahuldev Mukherjee, Tamanna Dave and Roshan Gede. It was a story of an argumentative boy and girl which was carried to another level at this stage where, amid shrill shrieks and shouts the dialogues, became incoherent. But ‘Vayjanti’, written and directed by Rahuldev Mukherjee, was a matured attempt to focus on the plight of commercial sex workers. Mukherjee managed to create an emotional narrative and the environment of a brothel without the help of props.
 
  “As the language was rough and cuss words were liberally used, I had a tough time finding girls to act in it,” he told TOI.
 
 “Every aspect of the festival was handled by the students who rehearse for it round the year,” said Bhattacharya. 
 
 The presentations were mature, youth-centric and were supported by good acting. But the constant interruptions due to change in stage set-up led to the lights on stage being dimmed more than they were lit.
 
  “That’s because the stage did not have a front curtain,” said Bhattacharya, adding that the festival could not happen at the college auditorium as it is occupied by the centralized admission procedures.
 
 Quotes:
 
 The actors were totally into their characters and very realistic. ‘Propojhol’ had its lighter moments but it was ‘Vayjanti’ which stole the show with its sensitive handling of a difficult subject
 
 Aditi Kamdar | final year arts student
 
 The festival had a right blend of humour, emotion and thrill. Even a sensitive and emotional play like ‘Vayjanti’ had its lighter moments and could keep the audience engaged
 
 Cyril Daniel | member of an ngo
 
 The students practise hard for this event throughout the year and so could put up a very impressive show. Though quite a few of them were playing different characters in more than one play yet they did not falter
 
 Melwyn Kirath | theatre director
 
 
