HYDERABAD: Apart from the usual gifts that flood stores on special occasions, this Mother's Day , has a new trend catching up with revellers. That of gifting moms with vacations. In fact, there has been a 24 per cent hike in the number of holidays with mothers in the first two weeks of May , show data available with online travel agent Expedia.For those in Hyderabad, some of the favourite destinations this Mother's day ­ to be celebrated on May 14 -include the   island village in Kerala, Khammam, which is situated at a distance of 198 kilometres from Hyderabad, Hampi in Karnataka, Chirala Beach and Horsley Hills. “We have observed an uprise in the number of motherchildchildren vacations in the last couple of years. Capitalizing on limited work leaves that young professionals have in their kitty, many are today combining the pleasure of a vacation and motherly time. At Expedia, we have witnessed a surge of 24 per cent in the number of holidays with mothers in the first two weeks of May ,“ said Manmeet Ahluwalia, marketing head of Expedia, India. According to travel agents, those in Hyderabad are now also seen opting for and re questing packages for `staycations' instead, for that much-needed downtime with their mothers.

 `Staycations' mean taking a mini-vacation of sorts in your own city or nearby , during weekends or for a longer period.
 
 “Given the heat, the distances and limited work holidays, a trend that has recently surfaced and meets the expectations of both a relaxing holiday and time crunch is a `staycation'. This mother's day we observed that many children are moving towards gifting `staycations' to their mothers at comfortable re sorts that make for a perfect homeaway present. Close to Hyderabad, places such as Bidar, Warangal, Nagaarjunsagar amongst others are some popular destinations and resorts or hotels closeby have seen a 22-25 per cent upsurge in bookings between May 13 and 14 this year,“ said Manmeet Ahluwalia. “These `staycations' serve to be a great home away from home and give a break to the mothers from regular chores and office work. Within Hyderabad, Expedia is offering a 30 per cent off on hotels with spa facilities,“ added Manmeet Ahluwalia.
 
