CHENNAI: University of Madras has taken a strict view of attempts to start arts and   in Chennai, Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts without   

 In a report tabled at the syndicate meeting on April 21, the affiliation committee of the syndicate said 12   agencies had applied to the university to start arts, science and MBA/MCA colleges from the 2017-18 academic year. However, none of them had obtained the necessary Government Order (GO) that includes a no-objection certificate (NOC) and the syndicate declined permission.
 
 A copy of the report, which is with TOI, says colleges have till May 15 to get the GO.
 
 This is part of continued action by the university as directed by the higher education department, a member of the committee said. "Flouting all rules, colleges are started with minimum infrastructure and they come to syndicate for post-facto ratification, citing the fate of students. This is emotional blackmail," he said.
 
 In January, the university levied a hefty penalty amounting to the fee collected from students on such colleges. 
 
 In one case, the report shows, a Chennai-based college admitted 24 students in the 2016-17 year without the necessary permission.   in Design (B.Des) course, to which they were admitted, was not even instituted by the university, it was found. The permission from the government was taken only in the middle of the academic year.
 
 When the issue came up, the college's secretary pleaded with the university to transfer the B.Des students to the B.Sc (visual communication) course and allow them to write the exam, citing that their 'future would be affected.' The syndicate allowed this, but penalised the college 10,000 per student. This sum cannot be collected from the students, the syndicate had earlier ruled in a similar case. 
 
 In the same report, the   said that applications for affiliation for additional courses by colleges would be given only if they had shifted to permanent buildings on their own sites.
 
 "Many colleges start a new course in one building in the first year, but later they move it to a distant locality. This causes inconvenience to the students," a syndicate member said.
 
