On Friday,   launched `Let's Talk', a campaign around  .   spoke to a few gutsy people who have written about their  .

 Three months ago, 40-year-old Sandeep Gautam, a life coach and blogger based in Pune, revealed that he had a bipolar disorder, which is characterised by extreme mood swings. He was diagnosed 17 years ago while working with a private corporation in a demanding job. “I used to worry that if I told my boss about my illness, I may not get plum assignments anymore and get funny looks from my colleagues,“ admits Gautam.
 
 It took years before Gautam finally decided to open up on his blog because “if you don't talk about it, you can't fight the stigma“. Inspired by his courage, Gautam's close friend too admitted that he too was bipolar, while one of his readers, Tanvi Kale, revealed she had depression.
 
 Celebrities like   have done a lot to create awareness about mental health, much needed in a country where one in 20 suffers from depression, but now a lot of ordinary folks are also mustering up the courage to share their stories.
 
 In fact, the theme of this year's World Health Day (April 7) was `Depression, Let's Talk'. “Treatment and healing begins when the person opens up and tells someone they trust about their problems,“ says Dr Shekhar Saxena, director of the department of mental health and substance abuse, Geneva.
 
 Last November, 42 year-old   published her book  ' chronicling the most private details of living with and battling clinical depression. An officer with the Indian Revenue Service, Prakash recalls how some of her colleagues tried to portray her illness as an attempt to shirk work. “I got some weird reactions from people. 'What are you depressed about?', 'You have everything in life', 'Your generation cannot handle life', 'It's all in the mind',“ recalls Prakash.
 
 Akhileshwar Sahay, who suffers from bipolar disorder and works as a mental health advocate, says that fighting the stigma becomes more difficult than managing the disease. Sahay, 58, opened up about being bipolar during a mental health conference in Mumbai where he was a speaker. Now he runs a blog, Akhilvaani, where he encourages other patients and even caregivers to talk about their experiences.
 
 Jerry Pinto, whose semi-autobiographical account based on his relationship with his mother who suffered from bipolar won the Sahitya Akademi award, has done another collection of stories from people who recount their lives with loved ones who have had mental illnesses. In an interview to Mid-Day, Pinto says he didn't want to tell shocking stories. “I just wanted to say that right next door to you, there could be some body who is going through this, so be sympathetic the next time," he says.
 
 Amrit Bakhshy, a caregiver who details the struggles of caring for his schizophrenic daughter in a book, says that talking about mental illness is the best way to reduce stigma. “The government must start campaigns, the same way they have done for cleanliness and use of toilets," says Bakshy on Sahay's blog.
 
 Vijay Nallawala, 54, says penning his struggles in 'A Bipolar's Journey - From Torment to Fulfillment' was a cathartic journey. “Writing this book helped me heal,“ says Nallawala, who runs bipolarindia.com.
 
 In Prakash's case, the advice to write came from her psychotherapist who viewed it as a form of therapy. “I wanted to tell everyone that I have a mental disorder but I am not ashamed of it. I understand that something has gone wrong in my brain - just like things go wrong with our hearts, kidneys or livers. Do we ever feel ashamed of that?“ asks Prakash.
 
 
