

 This tells you in how much time your money will double. Divide 72 by the interest rate at which you are compounding your money, and you will arrive at the number of years it will take to double in value.
 
 
 
 
 Use this to estimate how long it will take to triple your money. It works the same way as the rule of 72. Divide 114 by interest rate to know in how many years Rs 10,000 will become Rs 30,000.
 
 
 
 
 Similarly, this tells you in how much time your   will quadruple in value. For instance, if interest rate is 12 per cent, Rs 10,000 becomes Rs 40,000 in 12 years.
 
 
 
 
 This is a useful rule for predicting your future buying power. Divide 70 by current   rate to know how fast the value of your investment will get reduced to half its present value. This is especially useful for retirement planning, as it affects the way you set up your monthly withdrawals. However, do remember that inflation rate varies from time to time.
 
 
 
 
 This is a neat little rule that states that you can expect returns of 10 per cent from  , 5 per cent from bonds and 3 per cent on liquid cash and cashlike accounts.
 
 
 
 
 Put away at least 3-6 months’ worth of expenses in a liquid savings account to ensure it is available at short notice.
 
 
 
 
 This rule is used for asset allocation. Subtract your age from 100 to find how much of your portfolio should be allocated to equities.
 
 
 
 
 
 Right from your first salary, put away a little for your retirement. Experts say 10 per cent of your   should go into this. It is important to increase the amount as your income rises over the years.
 
 
  
 
 
 How much should you withdraw after retirement? Use the 4 per cent rule to ensure that your corpus outlasts you. Here’s the calculation for a post-retirement monthly income of Rs 33,000 (Rs 4 lakh a year, or 4 per cent of the corpus) which increases 7 per cent every year to account for inflation.
 
 
 
 
 A rule-of-thumb formula used by Thomas J Stanley & William D Danko in ‘The Millionaire Next Door’, a book that studies self-made American millionaires, can help determine if you are one.
 
  Age x Pre-Tax Income
 __________________ =   
  10
 
 The logic behind the formula is that the older you are and the more money you make, the more net worth you should have. Indian financial experts argue that a divisor that’s closer to 20 would be more realistic in the Indian economy. According to them you should use a sliding scale linked to age. At age 40, someone earning Rs 7.5 lakh a year should have a net worth of Rs 15 lakh. For a 20-year-old, the divisor should be 25. Hence, a 20-year-old earning Rs 3 lakh a year should have a net worth of Rs 2.4 lakh.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
