Seething silently under the pressure of being the perfect mom and homemaker, Kalyani Pardeshi's post partum depression was left untreated for two long years. She managed her raging emotions with cookies, cakes and chips. However, fear gripped Kalyani when her dad who led a healthy lifestyle suffered a mild heart attack. It was that day she decided her kids deserved a better role model and she needed to start respecting her body. Here she shares her inspiring journey, from fat to fit...

 
 
  Kalyani Pardeshi
 
 
 
  78 kgs 
 
 
 
  28 kgs
 
 
 
  I silently battled severe postpartum depression. As an Indian mom, the natural expectation is to have "it altogether" and to be a supermom who can multi-task through the day, see to everyone's needs and be comfortable with putting herself last. I was anything but super efficient, I barely stayed afloat especially with my husband out of town for work a lot. It was almost unbearable trying to cope on my own. My depression had become so bad that I considered suicide for 2 long years. I constantly battled feelings of not being "good enough". To make matters worse, there were always people who criticised me on my home management skills, parenting skills, cooking skills - you name it. This aggravated my depression to the point that I felt my life had no purpose, no one needed me and if I ceased to exist, no one would notice. When I consulted a doctor about this, he felt my case wasn't severe enough to warrant medical treatment.
 
 
 The final breaking point came in August 2013, when my father suffered and survived a mild heart attack. My father is my role model, my hero and I grew up watching him eat reasonably healthy food and take daily walks for exercise. Fear gripped me - if this could happen to someone who actually takes care of himself, what could happen to me - someone who stifled her emotions down with cookies, cakes and chips, just to name a few unhealthy foods I used to consume.
 
 
 I knew something had to change, my kids deserved a happy mother, I deserved to respect who I was. I wanted to be around for my kids. These powerful reasons enabled me to embark on this life altering journey.
 
 
  
  1 bowl of hot oatmeal and 2 flour-less egg muffins
 
 
 
  Either zucchini noodles with homemade chicken meatballs and homemade marinara sauce or a grilled chicken salad. If I am eating vegetarian for the day then I have one wholewheat chapati, half a plate salad and a quarter plate of sprouts or low fat paneer/paneer bhurji/grilled tofu.
 
 
 
  Either grilled fish with half a plate of salad or a grilled chicken salad. Again if I am eating vegetarian for the day then I follow what I did at lunch time.
 
 
 
  Only one cup of tea in a day with half a teaspoon of sugar.
 
 
 
  I strength train at home 4 times a week and do cardio twice a week. Over the years I have collected a selection of weights/ dumbbells, a workout bench and a pull-up bar. I take an active recovery week after 6 to 8 weeks in which I just go for walks and don't lift any weights.
 
 
 
  I try to limit my carb intake to twice a day and consume no more than a quarter plate at each sitting. I consume sweet potato instead of potato, brown rice or quinoa instead of white rice. I always ensure to have half a plate of salad/steamed or stir fried vegetables for lunch and dinner.
 
 
 
    is 80 per cent nutrition and only 20 per cent exercise. You cannot expect results with unhealthy food choices. You can do anything you put your mind to. But unfortunately, many of us live with limited beliefs about ourselves simply because we have been told, constantly, over the years by friends and family that we can't do certain things. Many don't try to break those myths.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  I honestly don't believe in motivation. I firmly believe that we are a product of our decisions. I consciously make a decision, every single day, to be a healthier and fitter me. More often than not, people fear taking the decisions that can alter the direction of their lives. It is easier to say, "I am not motivated, I am lazy" than it is to say, "I am afraid of failing." It is not even really the fear of failure but more the fear of embarrassment and shame one feels when they are unsuccessful. However, Wayne Dyer puts it, "If you change the way you look at things, the things you look at change." It is never failure but a learning lesson, each "mistake" is an opportunity to learn.
 
 
 
  For me, the only way to stay focused is by being present in the moment, being consciously aware of the choices and decisions I make. I stay in tune with the way my body responds. If I happen to indulge in an unhealthy meal, I feel really bloated and groggy afterwards - that's my signal, I pay attention and change things up right away.
 
 
 Another tool I use is preparation and planning - a lot of my meals and snacks are well planned in advance. I cook some things in bulk and freeze them. I never cook any meal on an empty stomach. I have studied restaurants and "fast food" places that offer healthier meals so when we are out, I stay on track too.
 
 
  I battled feeling tired all the time and no amount of sleep would reduce the fatigue. I couldn't climb up a flight of stairs without feeling breathless. My kids would want me to play with them and I had zero energy. I would decline every time which made me feel like a bad mother which further made me believe those who criticised me on my parenting skills. 
 
 
 
  I see myself fitter than I am today and working to help others believe in themselves and in their abilities to achieve anything that they dream to succeed in.
 
 
 
  The biggest lifestyle change I made is learning to say no, even if it offended others. This is my body and I choose to respect it by being consciously aware of what I put into it. I got rid of all junk food and processed food from my home, replaced it with fresh fruit and vegetables. I avoid white rice, pasta, anything made from maida, fried food, chocolates, chips, cookies and other unhealthy snacks.
 
 
 
  For me, I hit rock bottom when a doctor declined to treat me for my depression stating my case was not severe enough. The one, independent source I trusted to help me, turned me down. Whatever I felt, whatever I was experiencing was belittled by his words, "You are a mother now, it is not about you and your problems any more. You have two children to think about." We all have a voice inside of us that needs to be heard so that we can be reassured that we matter. In that one moment, all hopes I had of being someone who matters, were shattered.
 
 
 
  I learnt so much about myself and about life through my weight loss journey:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
