CHANDIGARH: With UT administration notifying Chandigarh Building Rules (Urban) 2017, residents will now be able to construct commercial, residential and industrial sites without getting building plans cleared.

 In the new rules, self-certification has been made mandatory in commercial buildings – shop-cum-flats (SCF), shop-cum-offices (SCO), booths, service shops and bay shops — which are governed by architectural control sheets. However, in residential category the relaxation has been extended only to buildings up to the size of 500 square yards, while in case of industrial plots, the benefit of self-certification is available for plots up to 1,000 square yards.
 
 The administration had, initially, decided to introduce self-certification only for commercial buildings, but decided to include residential and industrial plots with riders, after representations from general public.
 
 Under new rules, building owners only need to submit a self-certification declaring that the construction adheres to building rules, including zoning and architectural control, and give a 15-day notice to authorities for granting approval, along with requisite fees. Owners can start construction after lapse of the 15-day notice period. But, if violations are spotted by enforcement staff at any stage of construction, the owner will be subjected to penal action.
 
 Lauding the efforts of administration, city-based architect and Chandigarh Beopar Mandal chairman (  committee) Vinod Joshi said, “Authorities have done well by giving relief to city residents.”
 
 
 
 Giving relief to residents in new rules, the UT administration has reduced maximum covered area for the backyards of plots up to 8 marlas from 1\4th to 1\3rd up. The decision has been taken to create additional space for construction of toilet\kitchen\store. This had been a long pending demand of residents. Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu said the administration should review bylaws regularly as the needs of residents keep changing with time.
 
 
 
 
 
 Administration has amended old architectural controls of shop-cum-flats (SCFs) to enable occupants to meet modern-day needs
 
 To create more space to park vehicles, residents have been allowed to remove the front boundary wall.
 
 Nod to club together two neighbouring commercial sites with multiple owners, albeit with a rider
 
 Housing projects and big buildings will not have to take environmental clearance, as eco conditions framed by Union ministry of environment and forests have been incorporate in building bylaws.
 
 Approval to enhancing floor-area ratio (FAR) of 1.5, the ratio of the total floor area of a building to the area of land it is built on, and ground coverage of 35% for the hotel site to 2% and 40%, respectively, to   (CHB) so that the land can be utilised optimally and also fetch good value. The CHB is coming up with a project at Rajiv Gandhi   on a land measuring 123 acre
 
 Spiral staircase allowed in commercial and residential buildings
 
 
 
 
 Administration has framed the new building bylaws on pattern of Haryana with an aim to simplify existing building bylaws and streamline building-plan approvals. Previous rules for commercial and residential buildings were too complex for residents to understand. Not only this, rules varied from sector to sector. The estate office is also working on reducing time taken in approving building plans.
 
 
 
 
 UT estate office is working on an ambitious project of starting an online service for building-plan approvals. A team, led by UT deputy commissioner  , is working on the project expected to be launched by September. The estate office has got software developed to scrutinise plans submitted for approval. 
 
