PUNE: The   are just around the corner and, notably, there has been a flurry of inaugurations or implementation of several infrastructure projects in various parts of the city. However, it’s an entirely different matter whether these projects are actually up and running.

 One such project is a garden at Salunke Vihar Road in Kondhwa, which was inaugurated by   chief Sharad Pawar but, 12 days later, the gates are still locked for the general public.
 
 The locked gate sports a banner that reads, “Due to construction of public toilets and lawn setting, the garden will remain closed for some more days. Inconvenience regretted.” As one peeps through the gate, the foundation stone is easily visible. The plaque includes many political names besides Pawar. Most people mentioned are NCP members. 
 
 “I fail to understand why the facility is closed if it has been inaugurated? It has taken a long time to construct the garden and after the  , I thought we will be able to come here on weekends with our children and relax for some time. Whenever I pass though this place, I don’t forget to take a look but the gate is always locked. I think that the authorities just wanted to inaugurate it is a hurry considering the upcoming elections and now it has been forgotten,” said Keshav Bharti, who lives in a residential society along Salunke Vihar Road.
 
 The garden, which boasts of quite a few recreational facilities, has been named after the late Anusaya Satba Lonkar, mother of social activist Narayan Lonkar. “They say that the construction of washrooms has not been completed and the lawn needs to set in. This clearly means that the facility was not ready when it was inaugurated,” said a senior citizen, who was asking the guard when the garden would be thrown open.
 
 A worker, who was found sitting inside the park nearly dozing off under the morning sun, provided some explanation. “If the facility is opened, the lawn area will become a mess. The grass has been set sometime back and the roots have to developed. It might very well take at least 20 to 25 days before things are set and all work is completed,” he pointed out.
 
 Nayaran Lonkar, who is the husband of Nanda Lonkar, the NIBM Road corporator, said, “Only some work is left and it will be opened to the public soon. There is no need to worry as we have toiled hard to make the project a reality.” 
 
 Sources said that not just this project, but two other facilities located in Katraj, which were inaugurated on January 4 by NCP leader Ajit Pawar, are still to start functioning. NCP is the ruling party in the civic body.
 
 “The projects, one a swimming pool located on the Katraj-Kondhwa Road and the other a park located at Sukhsagarnagar, were inaugurated but they are still to be opened for the general public. All these years, these works were pending and suddenly work started as the election neared. Now, with the inauguration done, they have not been opened to the public and no one can be seen around,” said Sunanda Kakade, a homemaker living in Katraj.
 
 Senior   city unit chief Yogesh Gogawale called it an old habit of the political fraternity. “It is a habit to gain political mileage before the model code of conduct comes into force. However, nowadays people have become smarter. They are more aware and know things,” he said.
 
 
