Roger Federer, the most decorated champion in men's tennis, is wearing the tag of 'underdog' with a smile that reflected the Melbourne summer sky. The 35-year-old, seeded 17th at the   starting Monday, saw his run of 65 consecutive main draw appearances in majors, dating back to January 2000, interrupted when he pulled out of the French Open last May. Federer lost most of last season to a knee injury, his ranking tumbling out of the top-10 and consequently his seeding a lowly 17.

 Federer, who also missed the US Open and the ATP Tour's season-ending championships, said after Wimbledon the race was to get fit for Australia. "If I would have kept everything short, it would have taken me four months to be back," he said. "That was pushing it. I would have had to take chances, test the knee earlier than what would have been good. But by giving myself six months, I had enough time."
 
 Federer, very much an artist at work, is sometimes portrayed in the light of an accidental warrior. "You do miss the matches," he said when asked what about the game he missed most in his time away from the Tour.
 
 The Swiss with the silken skills, who has been sweating it out in Dubai in the off-season, said he felt ready for the road. He opens on Monday against the left-handed Austrian qualifier  , who beat the 17-time Grand Slam champion in their last meeting on clay five years ago. Not that the encounter would have any bearing on the first round test to which the 35-year-old Melzer comes into primed for competition.
 
 "I felt   was great preparation. We'll see if it was perfect or not. But conditions felt virtually identical to me. Center court in Perth was sort of similar size. Court speed felt the same," he said. "Then practice was more about just managing, maintaining, not overtraining, played enough to get used to the conditions here. You just have to put down the hours, play the sets. I did that. It's just more quiet now, whereas in Dubai (offseason) I was really forcing the issue. I was training extremely hard. I don't have to do that anymore this week, so I feel like it's been a light week."
 
 Federer said he'll see how his body can handle the load as he goes on in the tournament.
 
 "I guess it's slightly the unknown," Federer said when asked of long four or five set affairs. The veteran will escape the wrath of the Melbourne sun, expected to be out in all its glory on the first two days of the competition, as he's playing the night match on Monday. "Long matches is the same for everybody. We don't play four-setters, five-setters every single week. You only play them in   now and in Grand Slam play," he said.
 
 At 35 it's more excursion than exercise for Federer, he's in it more for the joy of the journey. "I trained as hard as I possibly could, so I will be ready for it."
 
