BHOPAL: State transport department on Friday sought amendments to Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950 and proposed separate law to regulate   shops and consumption on highways before petitions committee of   on Friday in Bhopal. 

 The committee, which met at Jehanuma Palace in the city under the chairmanship of Rajya Sabha MP from the state, Prabhat Jha, took note of demands of the state government and other stakeholders.
 
 Based on petitions, the committee will make a report of demands, which would be presented before the RS. The meeting was held between transport department and delegations, including the Union government think tank to discuss ‘road rage’.
 
 Many issues came up during meeting, including a spike in road accidents, rash driving on highways, liquor consumption by drivers especially truck drivers and fake driving licences.
 
 Interacting with TOI on the sidelines of meeting, Jha said one of the petitions the committee received from the state was capital punishment for drunk drivers. “We have taken note of the petition and it will also be reported to the Union government. A petitioner from the state has sought capital punishment in case a driver in drunken state runs over a vehicle, resulting in death of person,” he said.
 
 He said the transport ministry has sought separate law for liquor vends at highways, which may regulate liquor consumption while driving. “Several amendments have been sought in the transport Act, which may help curb road rage incidents,” he informed.
 
 Meanwhile, the state government on Monday ratified a new excise policy with a clause that was previously disapproved by chief minister   more than once. 
 
 Notification has been issued that country liquor shops will now have the permission to sell foreign liquor. This proposal, which has been accepted by the state cabinet, was last year criticised by chief minister Chouhan, who had sent back the proposal to the department saying he wanted it dropped.
 
 However, this year government has decided to introduce foreign liquor in country liquor shops with the sole intention of raising more revenue for the state exchequer. Finance minister   defended the government move saying, “We need revenue for developmental works.”
 
 The Congress is not in favour of the government’s move. Speaking to TOI, state PCC chief spokesman KK Mishra countered, “This is not how a welfare state runs. If raising revenue is the priority of the government, then next they should start issuing licences for starting casinos.”
 
 Following the SC order to shift liquor shops beyond 500 metres from national highways, the state has decided to merge 1,427 hooch stores with neighbouring stores. After merger of shops to the next nearest outlet, excise duty rates and licence fee of both shops will be added for payment to government. Meanwhile, district committees will be assigned the job to decide which ‘desi’ liquor outlets can be upgraded to sell foreign liquor.
 
 
