TRICHY: Anti-PeTA slogans seem to be getting louder as the public joins hands with the agitating students fighting for the cause of  .

 The turnout of protesters on Friday outnumbered any political gathering in the history of Trichy with people from all walks of life joining the bandwagon on day three. The crowd gathered at the MGR statue has been growing with each passing day with more than 50,000 footfalls recorded on Friday. While on Thursday, the crowd was largely restricted to college students, on Friday, many mothers joined the protest with their children. “People across all ages are joining the protest. We will not relent until our goal is achieved,” said R Indumathi, 21, a college student. Residents showed their solidarity by raising slogans with students and holding placards.
 
 “It’s overwhelming to see youngsters stand firm for their cause on the third consecutive day,” said  , 37, who dissolved his three-year long association with the BJP to join the protest for jallikattu. Sathyabama, the former vice president of the BJP said there was no point in being associated with a party that does not respect  .
 
 Pradeep Manoj, 25, a native of Srirangam, said that this is the first time he has witnessed such a massive protest. “It is a collective outrage against the gradual and consistent attack on Tamils and our tradition,” he said.   has for the most part been left to fight its own battles he said, be it the issue of Sri Lankan Tamils, water sharing between states and now jallikattu.
 
 Support continue to pour in terms of food supply. “We have plenty of biscuits, juice, water sachets and food packets. It will last for another two days,” said B Anand, a college student.
 
 Silambattam was performed at the protest site. A dance programme was also organised. Awareness was created on the need to save the native breeds of cattle.
 
 Meanwhile, youngsters are doing their best to sustain the support coming from all directions. There is even a pray area marked for Muslims joining the protest. Students are also ensuring that the food supply is continuous.
 
