I Will Go Out, the nationwide campaign that started as a social media movement after a host of ‘attacks’ on women reported from Bengaluru during New Year’s Eve saw its reflection in Kerala as well. 

 Groups of women marched into the streets in Palayam, Trivandrum and in front of Kerala Sahitya Akademi, Thrissur on Saturday evening, screaming for the right to walk safely in the streets, even during the nights.
 
 Placards emphasising women’s rights, the freedom to dress the way they want, and to live without any fear were demonstrated at Trivandrum. A poem written by activist and poet Kamala Bhasin and translated into Malayalam was recited on the occasion.
 Ironically, what started out as a liberating movement turned out to be a reinforcement of what they were fighting against, for, when the clock struck 6.45 pm, a third of the protesting crowd comprising young girls suddenly got up and left! The reason? They had to be in their hostels before 7 pm! “This is exactly what we are fighting against. Be at home or hostel, a woman is expected to be in by sunset, a rule which is not applicable to boys however,” says KA Beena, a social activist. 
 
 
 
 “Instead of installing more CCTV cameras and stopping women from travelling, the authorities must ensure safety of women and not try to confine them to certain spaces in the name of protection. There should be gender sensitisation programmes for men as well. From a young age gender equality must be taught to children.”
 Aleyamma Vijayan, Sakhi Resource Centre for Women
 
 
 
 “Most Indian men are egoist and we cannot change the society in a single day. But we should start somewhere. I respect my female friends and I believe that whether you are a man or woman, you have to take care of yourself and don’t need anybody’s support to live.”
 Rushabh Mohan, first year student, 
 Mar Ivanious College
 
 
 
 “Stop rating a woman on the basis of what she wears. If she is bold and talented, she is often tagged as ‘over smart’. This shows the culture of male domination in our society. Once I was walking back home after a night shift when a biker groped me and sped away. So does it mean that being alone at night is an invitation from the girl for the men out there, that she is available for ‘entertainment’?”
 Ragini Shankar, freelance writer 
 
 
 
 More than 30 women from different age groups and from various women’s forums gathered for the same cause, shouting the slogan, I will go out. Advocate R K Asha Unnithan, convener of the Thrissur chapter says, “We all joined in for the cause along with those hundreds who protested for the same in around 30 cities across the country.” In Thrissur it was attended by several prominent personalities including Gargi, daughter of former naxalite Ajitha, and theatre activist Sreeja Arangottukara. “As a follow up we are planning to take the campaign to the rural parts of Thrissur as women are not safe in villages either. We will be holding a week long night out for women after 7 pm at Arangottukara, near Pattambi.” 
 
 
 
 Though the #IWillGoOut campaign saw takers in Trivandrum and Thrissur, Kochi people didn’t take part in the protest. When we checked with some of the women activists from the capital, they said, Kochi did not have active women groups who are keen to protest and also the city did not feature in the national plan. 
 
 
 
