LUDHIANA: Dr Ronald Heslegrave, head of Research at William Osler Health System in Brampton, Ontario (Canada) completed a two-day visit to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) under their Global Health Programme. The purpose of the visit was to develop high-level research collaboration between the two institutions.

 Dr Heslegrave met Prem   Gupta, secretary, DMCH Managing Society; and Dr GS Wander, head of Research and Development wing at DMCH. Both sides shared their research experience and ongoing projects with each other. Dr Heslegrave said Brampton was the largest hub of bio-medical technology in Canada, and the government of Canada had invested heavily to develop the city for medical services, education, and industrial opportunities. In the meeting, a core group was formed to identify and execute joint research projects between the two institutions.
 
 Elaborating further, DMCH principal Dr Sandeep Puri said the focus of research would be to improve patient care and assess patient satisfaction and feedback. Clinical applications of latest devices and medical technologies would also be studied. Dr Deepak Jain from the Department of Orthopaedics, DMCH — who is coordinating the visit — said the main target of this collaboration was to improve healthcare for residents of Punjab, as well as Punjabis settled in Canada.
 
 Dr Wander said the two sides agreed to share the latest medical technologies and developments with each other, as well as start a student exchange programme. Prem Gupta also said DMCH was in the process of setting up a joint medical care programme under ‘Care Beyond Borders’ programme with Osler group, wherein residents from Brampton visiting Punjab can get treated at DMCH. This project will start in the first week of October. The medical records of patients taking treatment in Canada will be shared with DMCH doctors, and once these patients come to India, specialists at DMCH will take care of them and share their reports with physicians at Canada.
 
