The experience of worshipping the shrine at Malayattoor has been altogether different this time, after the implementation of the  .
 Under the guidance of the Kochi District Collector, with the help of volunteers of the  , college students and Kudumbashree workers, the use of plastic has been strictly banned in the church premises. The plan, which kicked off on April 1, has come like a breather for the church authorities, who are left to deal with the enormous amount of waste along the mountain stretch once the season is over.
 
 As part of the enforcement, the group stamps green stickers that cost `10 on every plastic bottle taken by devotees. Says Siju Thomas, district coordinator of Suchitwa Mission, “The sum is later returned, only on condition that the pilgrims bring back the bottles they had taken along.” The devotees are allowed to use only steel glasses, and even the covers of candles, which are a means of invocation, are to be completely environment friendly, they say.
 
 Around six women from the team, and eight students from colleges such as St Teresa’s College, Kochi, and St Xavier’s, Aluva, work in shifts to ensure a seamless work flow. “However, as it is vacation time, not many students are available for the job, and we are now seeking volunteers from the Adi Shankara Institute of Engineering,” says Siju. 
 
  Manju Varghese, a devotee, and her family embarked on the pilgrimage recently, and were pleasantly surprised by the sight of the litter-free surroundings of the church. “I couldn’t find even a piece of paper along the path this time. Even the toilets were cleaner. Hats off to the volunteers for enforcing the litter-free rule,” she says.
 
 Fr. Xavier Thelakkatt,  , is quite happy with the enforcement of plastic regulation. “We are very pleased with the way things are progressing, and the stall owners have been very cooperative by not using any plastic items.”
 
 The District Collector Mohammed Y Safirulla is confident that the people behind the team are well equipped to tackle any problem they encounter. He says, “We have also entrusted a special squad to ensure that the rules are being followed without fail.” Fines may be imposed from `1000 to even `15,000, depending on the intensity of littering. “Things have been effective so far. However, it’s still not perfect. There are a few areas which have to be taken care of, as certain violations have been identified,” he says.
 
  Meanwhile, authorities from other places of worship, including temples and churches have expressed a keen interest to follow suit, says Fr. Xavier.
 
