VARANASI: Noted river scientist and retired professor of IIT-BHU   is one of the experts to probe into the alleged irregularities in Gomti Riverfront development in Lucknow during the regime of former chief minister  . 

 "I got a call from the chief minister's office regarding my consent," Choudhary said while talking to TOI on Thursday. "Things will be clear only when I take account of all aspects of the project but it is a scientific fact that the flood plane of a river and its dynamics and morphology should not be violated," he added.
 
 Adityanath government has constituted a judicial committee headed by a retired high court judge, Justice Alok Kumar Singh to probe into the alleged irregularities in the development of Gomti Riverfront project during the previous   government. The government has also included two experts, Choudhary and AK Garg from   in the report team. They will assist Justice Singh in investigating the time and cost in the dream project of Akhilesh Yadav. The main complaint against the project is that while funds to the tune of Rs 1,300 crore had been spent but even 60% of the work had not been completed.
 
 "I have not inspected Gomti Riverfront in Lucknow but I have come to know that a wall has been constructed, reducing the flood plane. I would like to say that one can not touch (disturb) the flood plane, which is the stomach of the river as it would change the very character of the river," he said. The cross-section of a river defines the anatomy-morphology and the management of the river system.
 
 According to him, the water requirement of human body varies according to the quality and quantity of food one consumes. Analogous is the case with the river system. The soil base of river defines the quality and dynamics of water. This further defines the change in oxygen content of the water as well as space and energy of the river. "Thus, the inter-relationship of the constituents and functioning of our body and river are same. The river is a living system," he said adding that the application of this concept provides an easy and sustainable solution to all river problems at a minimal cost. 
 
 The concept of river as living system was provided by sages in the Vedas, Puranas and other Indian epics. This needs to be applied in the field of science and technology, said Choudhary. Under the living concept, it is found that the constituents, organs, energies and working potentials of river systems are inter-related as they are in our body. Following this line, causes and remedies of the various problems could be achieved in an easy, sustainable and cost effective manner.
 
