Antara Das (top, L) was killed near her office on Dec 23, 2016. The accused in the case, Santosh Kumar (center) has been in jail since January 10, 2017. His father, Akhileshwar Prasad Gupta (top,right) was in the city recently to meet his son; (Centre) These stories related to the murder were published on January 7, 8 and 10, 2017, respectively; (Below) The spot in Talawade IT Park area where Antara Das was murdered
 
 Santosh Kumar’s lawyer has applied for his bail, arguing that he has been booked only as a conspirator in the crime
 
 More than two months since the incident, as cops have yet to make any headway in the case,  , the 24-yearold techie who has been behind bars for the murder of  , has told authorities that he wishes to undergo a   so that truth may prevail. Lodged in   since January 10, now, the Bengalurubased software engineer wrote a letter to his father, Akhileshwar Prasad Gupta, and brother, Ashish, on February 17, stating that a communication to this effect has been made to the cops.
 
 “I am going to request the court to let me undergo a narco test. This is a test wherein they make you unconscious and ask questions to know the truth. The only problem being that you don’t get permission for this quickly. But I will request it nonetheless,” the letter stated.
 
 Inspector Ram Jadhav, attached to Pune rural police, who is investigating the case affirmed this, saying, “Santosh has made an application for a narco test. We will now wait for orders from the court.” The officer added that they have not been able to make any major breakthrough in the past few days in the murder investigation.
 
 Akhileshwar Prasad, who was in Pune for couple of days, met his son in jail. He hoped that the narco test will be decisive in setting his son free. He said, “I sincerely hope that the court orders for it to be conducted. There is nothing more important to us now, other than proving our son’s innocence.”
 
 The father of the accused, who runs a smalltime business in Ara, Bihar, underscored the failure of the cops in unearthing evidence against his son and seeing the case to a logical end. “They have in no way been able to tie him to the crime and yet are keeping him behind bars. We are not denying that he was in love with Antara. But, when she told him that she was getting married, he stopped communicating with her. The cops need to try and probe other angles of the crime. We hope that the case is given to a higher authority as we no longer trust the cops that are handling it right now,” he said.
 
 In the 10-page-long letter to his family, Santosh also asks his brother to gather CCTV footage, and records that prove he was in Bengaluru at the time of the crime. He has asked his brother to procure call records from the network provider, briefly touching upon his past love for Antara and that his last communication with her was on November 23.
 
 Santosh Kumar has been booked for his involvement in Antara’s murder. She was killed on December 23, barely 500 meters from her office. The accused was brought from Bengaluru, where he used to work for a software company, and arrested on December 29. Back then Pune rural cops had claimed that as a jilted lover he was tormenting the victim. They were able to piece together that Santosh Kumar had called Antara from several numbers after she had blocked his number. He had allegedly sent her several messages, which tantamounts to harassment.
 
 Beyond this, the cops could not prove that he was indeed her attacker. Initially they floated a theory that he got one of his friends to kill her. They even detained and questioned few people. But over the past two months since his arrest, Pune rural police have not been able to link him directly to the murder and have charged him under section 120B of IPC for conspiracy. The cops grilled him for 14 days when he was in their custody. Since January 10, he has been in jail in magistrate custody.
 
 Advocate Anup Pande, representing Santosh Kumar, has also moved for his bail in Pune District Sessions Court. “I have applied for his bail on the grounds that my client has only been booked under section 120B for conspiracy. The cops are yet to catch the real killer. My question is that if my client is the conspirator why haven’t the cops been able to nab the killer? The matter is being heard in court and I am certain that we will get justice,” said Pande. Pande said that the narco test was sought by cops and Santosh Kumar had agreed to it. “We are now waiting for it to be done so that facts can come out,” he added.
 
 
