The   is best appreciated outdoors, for its ardour and verve are best embraced under the moon and the stars. 

 To those who might not have the time, or the inclination, to travel to the   of Hazrat   Auliya, this muse isn’t out of reach. 
 
 For, a devotee of the shrine’s qawwalis has, with a passion the   themselves would be proud of, sought to bring the spirit of the Dargah to Gurugram.
 
 Rathin Mathur is that aficionado, and on Saturday, his efforts to give the city an identity beyond corporates and cuisines bore fruit on a chilly February nigh.
 
 Fittingly, ‘The   of Nizamuddin’, the city’s very own season of qawwalis, debuted at   — New Gurgaon’s first condominium complex — as the brothers Sultan Niyazi Qawal and Usman Niyazi Qawal, and their band of musicians, performed with a soul and gusto that can only come from an immersion in the love and humanism of   Nizamuddin and Amir Khusro, of Baba Farid and Moinuddin Chishti. 
 
 Sultan and Usman are sons of Ghulam Husain Niyazi, a giant of the qawwal, and the spirit of their late father coursed through the evening. In front of an approving audience, the siblings embarked on a journey in search of the divine, their voices swelling like the waves that surge towards the shore at high tide (and, at times, as becalmed as the sea at low tide). 
 
 The wisdom and wonder of ‘Man kunto maula’ and ‘Tu bada gareeb nawaz’ transported the listener to a space that could only have been subliminal (as, indeed, the best music does, whether it is mystical or earthly), while the rhythmic flourishes of ‘Allah hoo’ and ‘Is karam ka karoon shukar kaise’ called on the life-force that was, unforgettably, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan. 
 
 ‘Ganj e shakar ke lal’, meanwhile, evoked the joyous inhibition of Holi, while the transcendent ‘Aaj rang hai’, Khusro’s heartfelt tribute to Nizamuddin Auliya, brought the curtain down on an evening that, it is hoped, will be the first of many. The ‘season’ now moves to Heritage City (March 5), on the way to culminating in a two-day celebration of the qawwali at the Aravali Biodiversity Park, in the second half of March.
 
 ‘All you need is love’, The Beatles once sang. But for many centuries, the qawwals of the Sufi tradition have been singing in praise of love. In a world where hope is often obscured, it’s a message that will never lose its tug. 
 
 
