Two months after pleading with VK Sasikala to take over the reins of the party,  , a founding member of the AIADMK, created ripples by joining hands with  . In an interview to Julie Mariappan, the veteran says that victory in the bypoll will help the OPS camp retrieve the two leaves symbol and unravel the 'mystery' behind Jayalalithaa's death. He also challenges TTV Dhinakaran to campaign with photographs of Sasikala. Excerpts: 

  
 
 
 We, the AIADMK ( ) faction, are ready to face any punishment, if proven guilty of charges. How can we bribe voters when we are unable to meet our daily expenses? (TTV) Dhinakaran and DMK indulge in such violations, and poor electorate fall in. We maintain a vigil and even caught red-handed the supporters of Dhinakaran while distributing several lakhs of rupees. Only the top-rung election officers are effective (and not the lower-rank).
 
  
 
 
 No, it is Dhinakaran's aim to see the elections countermanded due to fear of defeat. We are ready to face the polls projecting our leader O Panneerselvam. Do they have the guts to use photographs of Sasikala in the campaign? 
 
  
 
 
 We do not have any link with DMK, unlike them. They will even pursue business with the DMK, if the latter comes to power. But we do politics against DMK and got imprisoned several times for taking our rivals head-on. Allegations of these sorts are made to gain political mileage. I have to remind you that it was DMK chief M Karunanidhi who solemnized the marriage of V K Sasikala and M Natarajan. 
 
  
 
 
 Our prospects are bright, which is why our rivals keep pelting stones hurling charges at us. It is our dharma yudh, in which we hold a weapon given to us. After our win, OPS will retrieve the symbol. "They" are newcomers, but we saw our two leaves getting a resounding win in Dindigul bypoll (where AIADMK made its electoral debut). We are seeking votes to unravel the mystery shrouding the death of Jayalalithaa and convert her Poes Garden residence into a memorial. That is our prime objective followed by our election manifesto.
 
  
 
 
 It was I who replaced a level crossing with the famous Vaidyanathan bridge with the help of Amma. The locality lacked sewerage and road infrastructure, but the AIADMK government did wonders. Sodium vapour lamps lit the streets. We will find a solution to the Kodungaiyur dump yard after our win. We realize the growing aspirations of the people.
 
