CHARMINAR:  , one of the busiest in the city, has no basic facilities either for passengers or for   ( ) staff.

 The bus station lacks as basic a facility as drinking water and consequently bus drivers, conductors, controllers and passengers are left at the mercy of nearby hotels to quench their thirst after a hard day's work.   controllers strongly feel the need for a bus terminal equipped with all facilities at the busy area. The bus station has no proper seating or waiting facilities either. Although, some makeshift offices have been set up for   officials, commuters have to stand in the sweltering sun.
 
  and M Mahender, both controllers, said that more than 100 trips are made to the Charminar station by buses from various depots everyday.
 
 The drivers face hardship due to heavy rush of passengers during peak hours and they want the RTC management to make sure drinking water facility is available at the station. To meet the surge of passengers, they demand deployment of more controllers. "The drivers of the TSRTC will have to be more cautious while reversing or taking a 'U' turn at the alighting point. There should be more controllers to guide passengers and help drivers. When passengers ask for drinker water, we have no answers as we are not authorized to say anything over this issue," Khaja Moinuddin said. While admitting drinking water problems being faced by passengers and Road Transport Corporation employees at the bus station, they said they have brought the issue to the notice of the management several times. But no action has been taken, they said.
 
 "There are no taps to supply drinking water here and the thirsty passengers have no option but to suffer silently or rush to nearby hotels to plead for a glass of water. The elder ly passengers, children and women are the worst-hit during the hot summer. The TSRTC should take steps to provide drinking water," one of the commuters, Md Sharfu said.
 
 "The bus station is just an open space with no seating arrangements. It resembles a big parking lot for buses and passengers have to endure all sorts of problems there," another passenger, Md Farid, lamented.
 
 (Omer bin Taher I TNN)
 
