AHMEDABAD: Maharashtrian and Kashmiri communities in Ahmedabad ushered in their New Year on Tuesday, celebrating   and  . Maharashtrian families set up the ‘gudi’ (doll) at their homes to seek Lord Vishnu’s blessings. The Maharashtra Samaj of Bhadra held a special celebration by installing a hundred gudis near the  .

 A gudi is created with a bamboo stick, mango and neem leaves, and is adorned with a red garland. An inverted copper or silver pot is used to create the face and is decorated with green or red brocade. The gudi is draped with a silk cloth. Yellow and red symbolize fertility and well-being. 
 
 “The gudi is placed in the house or outside a window or door,” said Narayan Bhoite, the president of the Maharashtra Samaj of Bhadra. “Puran poli (a sweet flat bread) is prepared with other traditional Maharashtrian food. A cultural programme was held on Tuesday evening at which families of the community met.”
 
 The first day of Chaitra month also happens to mark the New Year of the Kashmiri pundit community. As part of tradition, a plate comprising rice, flowers, and panchang is usually prepared by the women of the family a night before the festival. The first thing one does in the morning of the New Year is to look at the plate.
 
 “The plate has unhusked rice, a small bowl of yoghurt, salt, a few walnuts or almonds, a silver coin, a pen, a mirror, some flowers and the almanac of the New Year,” said Girja Teng, a resident of South Bopal. “Apart from this, it is customary to cook pale yellow rice, ‘taher’, which is usually prepared on other auspicious occasions as well.”
 
 The beginning of Chaitra month also marks the beginning of Chaitra Navratri which is mostly observed in northern and western India. The celebration marks the start of the Hindu New Year according to the luni-solar calendar and people often observe a fast through all the nine days of the festival.
 
 Sindhis set for Cheti Chand festivities
 
 The Sindhi community in Ahmedabad is gearing up for its New Year, Cheti Chand, on Wednesday. Sindhis worship their Ishta Dev Jhulelal on this day. “A major celebration has been organized at the Juhlelal temple in  ,” said Jagdish Shadadpuri, the president of the Cheti Chand Sindhi Cultural Festival Committee. “A shobhayatra will be taken out from   to Sardarnagar.” Sindhis also perform a traditional ‘chopda poojan’, blessing their books of accounts to mark their New Year.
 
