MUMBAI: The year 2017 has seen the rise and rise for  . In January, the 17-year-old batting prodigy from Mum bai slammed a hundred on his first class debut in the   semi-finals against Tamil Nadu. In August, he led the India U-19 team in the one-dayers on the England tour. Last month, he hit a hundred on his Duleep Trophy debut, and on Monday , the youngster was picked for the first three one-dayers in the India A team which will play   in a fivegame series at Vizag (beginning on October 6), and in the Board President's XI team which will play against the visiting Kiwis in two warm-up games at Mumbai later October 17 and 19.

 Among those who congratulated Shaw was Team India coach  , who first met the young gun after the latter's world record knock of 546 in an inter-school game almost four years back, and has been tracking his progress since. “He congratulated me on my selection and told to keep focusing. Stay bindaas (confident), don't worry and play your natural game,” Shaw told TOI.
 
 Interestingly , the teenager learnt of the good news after indulging in a 27kilometre `bike expedition' which began at 6am on Monday morning. “I cycled from my home in Santa Cruz east to my native village in Narangi in Virar to the Arnala beach at Nalasopara, and then back from there to my home. I had left with a friend at 6am,” he said.”I love the challenge of facing better bowlers, which is increasing with every step in my career so far,” he added.
 
 The amazing transformation in the Mumbai opener's game in the last nine months is best summed up by Mumbai's batting stalwart  , who was commentating on TV during both his Ranji and Duleep hundreds.
 
 “I think I saw a distinctly different Prithvi during his Duleep ton, which was a top knock. He seemed far more solid, matured, and in control of his game than he looked on his debut. The ball was turning square. He's obviously a bright prospect,” observed Muzumdar.
 
 “As he goes on playing domestic cricket, he will learn to bat in different conditions, and will add more dimensions to his batting, rather than bat in only one tempo,” he added.
 
 Talking about his Duleep hundred, Prthvi said: “It was a challenge to play under lights with the pink ball for the first time. The attack was good too, since I was playing the likes of Ishant Sharma and Pankaj Singh. I was just looking to play my natural game.”
 
 Iyer set to miss Ranji opener?
 
 In an encouraging sign for the consistent Shreyas Iyer, the Mumbai batsman was named as the captain of both the India A and the BP XI teams against the Kiwis. Both Iyer and Shaw, however, are set to miss Mumbai's Ranji opener against Madhya Pradesh, which kicks off on October 14 in Indore.
 
 
