Coimbatore: With the increase in usage of cash among merchants and consumers during re-monetisation, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has urged the government to subsidise transaction charges for digital payments directly to banks. CAIT said that either the merchant or the consumer should be spared the liability of paying such charges.

 “Transaction charges are one of the major deterrents in adoption of digital payments in the country since neither the merchant nor the consumer is willing to pay transaction charges,” CAIT said. The recent proposal of Reserve Bank of India to subsidise charges on digital payments made for government revenue is not sufficient, it said.
 
 “All sorts of digital payments made either for personal expenditure or for business to business or for making payments of government revenue should be included in the proposal to ensure faster adoption of digital payments,” said B C Bhartia, national president and Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general, CAIT.
 
 “The government should levy a nominal surcharge on withdrawal of cash from ATM machines in order to curtail flow of cash,” they said. “A comprehensive incentive policy should be in place to help persons and business entities using any mode of digital payments,” Bhartia and Khandelwal said. The RBI’s proposal that prescribes different slabs of transaction charges will make the system more complicated and transaction charges as a whole should be subsidised by the government directly to banks, CAIT said.
 
 “Lack of structured planning, non- inclusion of stakeholders in digital payment initiative and ineffective role of National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) has brought a break on foresighted vision of Prime Minister,” it said.
 
 The government should hold ‘Digital Payment Camps’ in commercial markets across the country for promotion of digital payments, CAIT said. “Incentives to shopkeepers accepting payments in business transactions through digital payments will encourage traders to embrace e-payment system,” it said. 
 
 The trade leaders also suggested a separate body for regulating RuPay cards. NPCI should be made an independent regulator to regulate payments market of India, they said. “The government should form a ‘Digital Payment Promotion Board’ and representatives of trade and commerce may be included (in the board) besides officials,” CAIT stated.
 
 “Non-banking finance companies and micro finance institutions should also be brought under the landscape of digital payments to install white label PoS (point of sale) terminals by encouraging (adoption of) a scheme to subsidise POS terminals directly or indirectly across both urban and rural areas,” it said.
 
 “India is predominantly a cash-based economy, with less than 5% of ‘personal consumption expenditure’ (PCE) of Rs 70,000 crore transacted by electronic payments. Those cards are used almost entirely at ATMs rather than at the point of sale (a ratio of 10 cash transactions to 1 at the point of sale),” CAIT said.
 
 “The ratio of currency to GDP (gross domestic product) in India (12.2%) is higher than countries such as Russia (11.9%), Brazil (4.1%) and Mexico (5.7%). It is an admitted fact that true value of electronic transactions is maximised when cards are used at the point of sale, rather than as a transactional tool to withdraw cash,” it said.
 
 
