BHUBANESWAR: More than 1,800 traders operate out of the  , one of the   in the city. Sprawled on 17 acres of land, the market provides sustenance to thousands of people of the   and  . Yet the market is now grappling with a several civic problems that range from lack of toilets to waste water accumulation. 

 While the periphery of the market is connected with roads, the vegetable market that lies deeper inside has no proper roads leading to and out of it, creating a daily problem not just for sellers bearing heavy loads but also for shoppers. Another immediate problem threatening sellers is the lack of concrete floors. This means that small vendors who often have to sit on the ground face hard times when the rains start. 
 
 "During the rainy season, the vegetable market inside the area gets muddy due to waste water accumulation. Customers avoid the vegetable market at this time for the mud in the area, leading to losses for us," said Subal Jena, a vegetable vendor at Indradhanu. 
 
 Jena also complained that no efforts are taken by the BMC to disinfect the muddy ground. 
 
 Local corporator Pratima Routray said a work order of Rs 35 lakh has been issued for the construction of the floor of the vegetable market, but small vendors have protested the move. "We have planned to use tiles for construction of the floor so that rainwater will be soaked into the ground, but the vendors want concrete floor. We are trying to convince them so that construction work can be started," she added. Routray also said the issues have already been discussed with the BMC. 
 
 Besides, there are only two toilets in the market for almost 2,000 sellers and the daily flood of shoppers. "While the BMC did not make toilets, small traders collected money and built toilets for themselves. But it is not sufficient to cater to the needs of the traders and customers," said Anjan Nath, president of the Indradhanu Market Small Vendors' Association.
 
 Nath also listed a series of debilitating issues. "Garbage is not picked up daily, due to which the back of the market is stinking due to waste being dumped there. We often see people urinate and defecate in the open, behind the market, due to the lack of toilets," he added. 
 
 Sarat Chandra Das, another trader, said they have thrice staged demonstrations in the market demanding basic facilities, but no action has been taken yet.
 
 City mayor Ananta Narayan Jena said the BMC will construct more toilets in the market and provide it with a water connection. "We will build the left-out roads and clean the backyards of the market. We will hold discussions with traders to sort out other issues," he added. 
 
