NEW  : These multilevel underground   lots were meant to cater to vehicles during the  . That was seven years ago. Five of them will now be inaugurated by February 15. Four have been ready for use for the past year, but the time for throwing them open to the public was perhaps not right. That moment seems to have arrived, for municipal elections are just a couple of months away — and unveiling civic amenities always offers good returns. So much so, that one of the new facilities slated for inauguration is not even complete. 

 Subhash Arya, leader of the House in the  , has said that the parking facilities at  , Hauz Khas, Kalkaji, Munirka and Rajouri Garden will be opened by February 15. The last in the list, which falls in Arya’s ward, will actually take another year to be fully finished, say contractors.
 
 The civic body has drawn flak for the inordinate delay in opening up the facilities to the public, in the process aggravating parking chaos and causing wastage of tax-payers’ money. The Hauz Khas multilevel parking is a classic case of resource mismanagement. Built at a cost of Rs 35 crore, it was inaugurated by the then Rajya Sabha member   in 2012 and has been inaugurated multiple times since. 
 
 SDMC is set to inaugurate it once more, but TOI found just 25 vehicles parked in a facility with a capacity for over 350. 
 
 Sunil Kumar, the operator at the entrance, said, "Though the charge for surface parking in front of this parking is Rs 10 higher, people prefer paying that to entering this facility." Suresh Pal countered with, "SDMC has to first create an environment appealing to users for them to take their cars underground."
 
 At Kalkaji and New Friends Colony, the amenities have remained locked since their completion in June last year. 
 
 "Roads in New Friends Colony are clogged with parked vehicles, and the underground parking was our only hope. The local councillor even inaugurated it, but it was locked after two days," said BM Bakshi, president, New Friends Colony RWA.
 
 The service in Munirka, completed in January 2016, is currently on trial. But the 12 CCTV cameras, control room, lift and other services are non-functional and the staircase has become a public toilet. The locals also allege that anti-socials congregate in the building. Mukesh Singh, the caretaker, warily said, "SDMC hasn’t provided security guards to prevent unsavoury incidents."
 
 In other places, the pace of construction has been laughable. In Subhash Nagar, it has been more than five years since the baarat ghar near Gurudwara Singh Sabha was demolished to create a multilevel parking. Ashok Kapoor, who runs a shop near the site and suffers regular traffic jams, said, "We were promised a solution and in return we only got another problem."
 
 In Jangpura, work has ground to a halt with site officials saying no funds had been released since August last year. "In five years, the corporation managed only to get the civil work done," grumbled Kapil Kakkar, president, Jangpura Extension RWA. 
 
 Defending the civic body’s seeming lethargy, Arya said, "There were delays because no one was willing to run these facilities and take care of maintenance charges, such as for electricity and for operating the lifts. We have now decided to take care of such expense for one year."
 
 
