CHENNAI: Key suspects in the   ­   ­ first came under police radar after the injured   Krishna Bahadur Thapa vaguely remembered their faces.

 Krishna Bahadur is the only witness to the daring incursion of the gang to the high-security estate campus, as well as the murder of his colleague Om Bahadur Thapa.
 
 Police pieced together the information given by the injured guard and were convinced about the role of Kanagaraj and Sayan, who were closely connected with the estate administration, in the trespass and murder.
 
 K a n a g a r a j w a s J ay alalithaa's driver and sent to Kodanad from Chennai. A police officer said: “He was one of the trusted drivers and was in the good books of Jayalalithaa till last year.“
 
 Sayan, on the other hand, was not a direct employee of the   administration nor had anything to do with Jayalalithaa. But he was a valued assistant of Jayalalithaa's preferred carpenter Sajeevan. 
 
 Introduced to Jayalalithaa in 2011, Sajeevan impressed her with his good work and became first choice for all carpentry contracts at the estate. One of his staff was Sayan alias Shyam.
 
 Witnesses told police that Kanagaraj and Sayan were close friends and were often seen together during off-duty hours on the estate campus. As a trusted worker of Sajeevan, Sayan had unbridled access to `White Mansion House', where Jayalalithaa spent her time with her aide V K Sasikalaa dur ing their rare retreats. “While even senior police officers did not know the interiors of the mansion, Sayan was familiar with every nook and corner,“ said another officer.
 
 Though the Nilgris police officially maintained till Satur day evening that the intruders had taken a few watches and a crystal showpiece from the personal rooms of Jayalalithaa and Sasikala, besides a couple of phones belonging to the murdered Om Bahadur and injured Krishna Bahadur, a senior police officer, who visited the murder scene on Monday , said: “Three suitcases kept at the hall attached to the bedrooms, where Jayalalithaa and Sasikala stayed, were found lying open. 
 
 But no one knows about the details of missing valuables.“ The glass panes had been smashed before the window was unlatched from outside, providing easy entry for intruders into the hall and bedrooms, he said.
 
 Less than five hours after Kanagaraj died in an accident, Sayan's car was involved in an accident near Palakkad in Kerala. His wife and five-year -old daughter were found dead in the car. Sayan is critically injured, and that case is being probed by the Kerala police.
 
 Police are pursuing available leads to ascertain if the two accidents within a space of about five hours were an incredible coincidence, or a coldblooded murder and an attempt to murder.
 
