PUNE: Adrenaline junkies are increasingly making a beeline for Maharashtra. The western state has emerged among the top three states that attracted the highest number of adventure tourists in 2015, especially for its trekking and jeep and wildlife safaris, a recent   study has found.

 The survey, which studied adventure tourist flow to 28 states in the country in the calendar year 2015, found that Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra attracted the highest number of adventure tourists in India -- over 10 lakh, 5 lakh and 2.5 lakh respectively.
 
 States that provide   opportunities but attracted the least number of tourists included Haryana, Lakshadweep, Tripura, UP and Gujarat among others.
 
 The study found that wildlife and jeep safaris in the many national parks were the top land-based adventure activities, followed by trekking and camping. Among water-based adventure activities, water rafting was found to top the list, followed by boat safaris and houseboat stays. Parasailing and paragliding were the top two air-based adventure activities, as per the survey.
 
 The study found that over 31 lakh tourists—Indian as well as foreigners—participated in adventure tourist activities in the country in 2015, of which close to 4.58 lakh were foreigners who frequented states like Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Maharashtra in highest numbers.
 
 The country earned Rs 1,815 crore in revenue from domestic and international adventure tourist visits. Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh earned the highest at over Rs 400 crore followed by Jammu and Kashmir, Goa and Maharashtra. Maharashtra earned over 90 crore in 2015 from domestic and international adventure tourist visits.
 
 In Maharashtra, the study conducted by Nielsen (India) Pvt Ltd on behalf of the Ministry of Tourism evaluated adventure tourist inflow to destinations such as Chandrapur, Alibag (Kashid), Kolad, Tarkarli, Ganpatiphule, Kamshet, Punchgani, Malsheg Ghat, Karjat, Mahableshwar, Matheran, Panhala Fort, Chikhaldhara, and Rajmachi.
 
 Swadesh Kumar, president of the  , said that in Maharashtra, numerous corporates and software professionals undertake adventure tourism activities within the state to de-stress. “Maharashtra has over 350 forts, where tourists go for hiking, while Rishikesh in Uttarakhand is a popular river rafting destination. Positive government policies in Himachal Pradesh towards adventure tourism and a range of mountains in the state naturally make it a popular adventure tourist destination, along with Maharashtra and Uttarakhand,” said Kumar.
 
 Gour Kanjilal, executive director,   (IATO) said, “International adventure tourists prefer high altitude trekking in tourist spots like Shimla, Kufri, apart from visiting locations like Leh and Ladhak in Jammu and Kashmir and Garhwal   in Uttarakhand. Indians prefer soft trekking and undertake adventure tourism activities like trekking and water sports in locations such as Manali, Tadoba, Mahabaleshwar, Goa, among others.”
 
 Assessing adventure tourism infrastructure in 28 states, the study said that Maharashtra needs modern accident response education facilities, reduction in restrictions on communication device such as satellite phones and two-way radios, rescue teams in remote areas and customer awareness about safety as well as adequate risk assessment.
 
 In Madhya Pradesh, which has popular wildlife sanctuaries like Bandhavgarh, Kanha National Park, and Pench, the assessment found an absence of proper medical facilities near wildlife parks.
 
