NAGPUR: The disciples of musician   will be organizing a two-day   on March 17 and 18 in memory of their guru who was a renowned teacher and  . Organized under the banner of  , which was formed by Pt Deshkar, the cultural festival will feature vocal by Aniruddha Deshpande, on the first day along with a ballad based on the life of Bhakt Prahlad.

 “Since the Holi festival has just gone by, I decided to compose the ballad on the story of this mythological character,” Suchitra Katarkar, the writer, singer and composer of the Hindi dance drama said. The ballad will be presented by the students of Kathak exponent Swati Bhalerao. “We will be singing live during the performance,” Katarkar said.
 
 The second day of the festival will for the first time have a unique presentation featuring the poetic writings of five great poets of the city. “This is for the first time that the works of such big names Raja Bade, Suresh Bhatt, Poet Grace, Purshottam Dharvekar and Poet Anil will be presented on stage. Though each one of these poets deserve a special programme, but we are trying to present their works together for the benefit of their fans,” Katarkar said. Some of the most popular compositions which are mostly private and not from films will be presented by 10 city singers.
 
 Cultural organization Swar Sadhana was formed by Pt Deshkar but its activities dwindled after few years of formation. “It was after his demise that we decided to revive this and hold programmes under its banner which showcases the talent of our city,” Katarkar said. This will be the third edition of the event. “So many luminaries from the field of dance, drama and music are from Nagpur. This is an effort to recognize and laud them. That is why this two-day festival features only local artistes,” she said.
 
 The event will be held at Scientific Society Hall in Laxmi Nagar and the entry is free. Mayor Nanda Jichkar will inaugurate the festival and Kanchan Gadkari will be present for the Bhav Shraddhanjali event on the second day, which features the works of five city poets.
 
