Chennai: Demonetisation may have led to a reduction in consumption, but the lustre of the yellow metal does not seem to have gone. Gold demand for the quarter ending December stands at 244 tonnes, 3% higher than the same period in 2015, figures from World Gold Council show. Infact, the year recorded the highest Q4 demand since 2012, when the demand was 261.9 tonnes.

 Riding on the back of a muted demand last quarter at 194.8 tonnes, wedding and festival season purchases, pent up demand, Q4 also saw increased buying owing to an improved monsoon, says PR Somasundaram, MD, World Gold Council, India. “The prices softened during October, coinciding with the demand during Diwali/Dhanteras, which partially contributed to the increase in demand. There was a sporadic spurt in buying until a week post demonetisation, after which the cash crunch led to a reduction in purchases,” he added.
 
 Jewellers, on the other hand, note that the increase in Q4 demand was mainly due to the Dhanteras season and buying was muted until December. N Ananthapadmanabhan, MD, NAC Jewellers, said, “The October-December quarter, which traditionally sees demand during Diwali, wedding seasons and NRI purchases during December ( margazhi), saw business as usual only during October Overall, there was a 15% reduction.”
 
 The quarter ended December was probably the only quarter which saw an increase in the demand. The full year demand, however, fell 21.4% to 675.5 tonnes compared to 857.2 tonnes in 2015. For jewellery alone, the market ended 22% down, compared to the previous year. Last year (2016) was fraught with high gold prices, a month-long jewellers protest in Q1 and first half of Q2. The third quarter saw the lowest demand since 2008 and gold prices surged by 30.7%.
 
 With the same market conditions prevailing in 2017, the council put out a conservative demand outlook for this year at 650 -750 tonnes, lesser than the structural demand pegged at 850 tonnes. “The Indian market faces a challenging time in 2017. We anticipate many of the headwinds to continue this year. We are confident that the Government’s move towards a more transparent gold market will ensure that gold remains an important asset class for millions of people in India,” said Somasundaram. 
 
 
 
