In a country where cricket is equated to a religion, carving an identity in another sport and becoming a household name is no mean feat. And   has managed to do just that. The former ace shuttler is lauded not only as a sports icon but also as a coach par excellence who has produced Olympic champions for India. But how many people would be aware of the travails, the risks and the steely resolve that contributed to the making of this champ? Nearly three years after the idea was conceived, a biopic on   is about to become a reality now. 

 
 
 I met Sudheer towards the end of 2013 and it was his idea to make a biopic on Gopichand. In fact, he wanted to get launched in Tollywood with this film, but things didn’t materialise at that time. But we both agreed to work on the biopic and I did exhaustive research on Gopichand, his life and career, sourcing content from wherever possible. The research made me realise that each and every episode in his life was very 
 dramatic and actually apt for cinema. There are also two shades to him: on the court, he is very aggressive but off it, he is a very mellow person. I think his humility stems from the struggles he had to go through in life,” says  . 
 Why then did it take three years to get someone to bankroll the project? “Most producers are short-sighted and look only at the commercial aspects. Biopics are not everyone’s cup of tea. We were looking for a producer with both financial clout and the passion to take this concept to the people. When   won silver at the Rio Olympics, there was an influx of producers, but with umpteen conditions and again, only looking at the commercial appeal. Things have finally fallen in place and we should be going on floors in the next couple of months. We want this to be the Dangal of 2018,” says Praveen. 
 
 
 
 Considering that a biopic in the true sense of the word has hitherto not been attempted in Tollywood, how does Sudheer Babu foresee his chances with this flick? “What works in Hollywood filters down to Bollywood and from there to regional cinema. Proven success formats work here. I strongly believe there is a need for such biopics to inspire and motivate the younger generation.” But, does he get to play the lead role because the idea was his brainchild? “I’ve known Gopichand for the last 20 years. He was my senior and we trained together at the  . I’m not apprehensive or worried. If I had thought even for a single minute that I would not be able to do justice to the role, I’d have produced the film and asked someone else to play the lead. I’ve observed him from close quarters and a lot of preparation has gone into my role — the way he prepared for the Olympics, the way he looks, walks and talks, his behaviour etc. I’ve also shed weight for this role,” says Sudheer, and adds, “When I was practising with him, I never ever thought that I’d be playing his character on the silver screen, one day. So, it’s a dream come true in a sense.” 
 
 
 What does Gopichand himself think about the whole exercise? Is he for or against it? Is he comfortable with Sudheer in the lead and has he listened to the script? “A lot has happened in the last few years. It’s been a dream journey. But ideally, I’d like our children to know what the sport was like 20 to 30 years ago when I was playing and the hardships we had to go through. If the film helps 
 encourage more youngsters to take up the sport, then I’m all for it. As for Sudheer, he was a national badminton player himself, he was part of my team and my training partner. He knows me 
 better than most people, so I can say that my role is in safe hands,” says Gopichand, adding that he hasn’t listened to the script yet, but trusts Sudheer and Praveen to do a good job. His only concern is that the film stays true to his life and is able to inspire people to keep pushing themselves and not lose faith. “On a broader note, it’s not just about badminton,” says the master coach and adds, “There was a phase when we were really struggling. Funds were not coming in for the Academy, people would promise us things and not pick up the phone, we had to wait for hours for appointments in vain, a lot of things. But all through this, my family stood by me and that’s of paramount importance. I think this is something that all entrepreneurs, start-ups and many sportspersons go through. Therefore, the biopic would have a general appeal.” 
 And, who would he like to see play   and Sindhu, if their episodes are included in the film too? Pat comes the reply: “I’m not much of a movie buff and don’t know these things. I’d rather leave that to Praveen and Sudheer. But if I had to make a choice, then ideally, I think the girls should play themselves on screen.” 
 
