Chennai: Whether it is buying insurance,   or gold, RBI data shows that Tamil Nadu believes in playing it safe. The state is the highest purchaser of   in the country and has one of the lowest borrowings from pawn lenders and brokers. A majority of Tamil households prefer to borrow from banks by pawning   or mortgaging their house than dealing with unorganised lenders who charge usurious rates.

 “In states such as Tamil Nadu, households store a high fraction of their wealth in gold, and also have more than 40% of their total debt in the form of gold loans. This suggests that gold plays multiple roles in household balance sheets. Andhra Pradesh comes after Tamil Nadu when it comes to buying gold. These high gold holdings in southern Indian states suggest that strong cultural factors may also be at play in these cross-state patterns,” said the RBI report.
 
 Debt allocation is also an important indicator of a state’s well-being. While poor states such as Bihar have nearly all of their loans as unsecured debt and almost all of it originated from non-institutional sources, states such as Goa have only small amounts of unsecured loans. Borrowing from non-banks could trap people in debt as the rates are usurious and ungoverned. Tamil Nadu sources 42.1% of its loan from non-bank institutions.
 
 Even among the southern states, the gold expenditure pattern varies. While Keralites might be the highest consumers of gold, it is the Tamils who set aside more of their monthly income towards purchasing the yellow metal. RBI’s Report of the Household Finance Committee shows that there is a sub-text to World Gold Council’s data that brides in Kerala wear the most gold in India at 320g and Tamil Nadu brides an average of 300g. With Kerala’s per capita income being slightly higher than Tamil Nadu, Keralites have to set aside a comparatively lesser portion of their income for gold purchases. RBI data shows Keralites set aside only 13.1% of their income, compared to Tamil households setting aside as much as 28.3% - the highest in India. 
 
 The state also scores high when it comes to insurance — whether it is life, health or motor insurance. When it comes to life insurance penetration, Tamil Nadu has the highest participation rate in India at 22.51%, followed by Karnataka at 17.10%. Chhattisgarh has the lowest at 2.15%. The report also said "non-life insurance products, which hedge against common shocks such as accidents and poor rainfall have literally no take-up in states where we ex-ante believe that they will be most relevant. For example, despite historical levels of drought in Andhra Pradesh, non-life insurance levels are abysmally low. However, solutions are not completely straightforward. The appropriate use of financial services, in contrast with access, may be far more challenging than simply endowing every individual in the country with a suite of financial assets." 
 
 For purchase of general insurance covers such as liability against crop damage, motor accidents or health issues, Tamil Nadu’s ranking is second in the country at 15.28% penetration. Given the fact that less than 1% of the population in Jharkhand, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh buy general insurance, the state’s ranking is not bad considering the country’s average. The RBI report also pointed to the successful implementation of the chief minister’s comprehensive health insurance scheme as a reason behind the state’s high coverage.
 
 
