Ludhiana: Unidentified armed miscreants murdered an 85-year-old man and injured his grandson allegedly over a financial dispute at Seh village of Samrala early on Thursday morning.

 The deceased was identified as   of Khamano and the injured has been identified as   of Seh village, who is into the business of finance.
 
 Police said Tejwinder had a financial dispute with a few persons and that his grandfather had come to live with the family about six months ago.
 
 Police said around 4am on Thursday , two to three masked and armed miscreants knocked at the door of the house. They said Tejwinder's father   and his wife were sleeping on the first floor and his wife and child were in the adjoining room.His grandfather, who was on the ground floor, opened the door.
 
 Police said the miscreants asked Gurdev Singh about the whereabouts of his grandson but he refused to tell them as he saw the weapons. The infuriated miscreants stabbed the elderly person multiple times, killing him on the spot.
 
 Later, police said, the miscreants went to Tejwinder's room and attacked him. Tejwinder's parents woke up on hearing the cries and rushed to his room.
 
 They raised an alarm and the miscreants, fearing being caught by villagers, fled from the spot, leaving Tejwinder seriously injured. He was rushed to the civil hospital in Samrala, from where he was referred to PGI, Chandigarh. Police said the family members also informed Samrala police, who started investigations.
 
 SHO, Samrala inspector   said a case has been registered under sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) and they hope to crack the case soon. He also said preliminary investigation suggests the motive of the crime was a financial dispute.
 
 Tejwinder's condition is said to be stable and police got the postmortem of his grandfather done at the civil hospital. The report is awaited.
 
 SP, Investigations Khanna R P S Sandhu said Tejwinder is a proclaimed offender in a case of fraud dating back to June 2016 at Khanna police station. He also said there are no CCTV cameras installed at the crime spot.
 
