HUBBALLI: If everything goes according to plan, in another month,   city will have an exclusive area to stage protests, to avoid traffic congestion at   in Hubballi, as HDMC has now proposed to make a protest zone at the Glass House in the coming days. 

 The KC Circle connects roads going to Solapur, Gadag, Pune and Bengaluru, among others. Traffic gets hampered during protests at KC Circle. To avoid this, since many years, there has been a demand for an exclusive protest zone, on the lines of Freedom Park in Bengaluru. 
 
 Elected representatives, including corporators, urged the authorities several times, to set up a protest zone, after which the HDMC finally took a decision to create an exclusive protest zone. 
 
 During the tenure of senior IPS officer B A Padmanayan, as the Hubballi-Dharwad commissioner of police, he asked the HDMC to mark a protest zone, so that no protests take place at KC Circle. The HDMC later passed a resolution to mark a protest zone, and develop it on the lines of Freedom Park in Bengaluru. Earlier, the HDMC passed the resolution in the period of P Manivannan as commissioner, but it failed to take off. When C M Noor Mansur became the HDMC commissioner, he took up the proposal of marking the place as a protest zone, and finally decided to develop a protest zone at a place near the premises of Mahatma Gandhi park. A plan was chalked out to develop the area on the lines of Freedom Park in Bengaluru. But before it got implemented, he was transferred, and the initiative remained only on paper. Now corporators and organisations are demanding a place to stage protests.
 
  corporator Ganesh Tagargunti said there is a need to create a protest zone, and to develop it on the lines of Freedom Park. "Currently, people are cursing due to bad roads. Whenever protests are staged, the traffic gets hampered. The HDMC should hence mark an exclusive place for protests, where people can come freely, and the traffic doesn't get affected," he added. Sudhir Saraf of the   said there is a need for an exclusive area to stage protests in Hubballi city. "
 
 Whenever there is a protest in the city, the traffic gets hampered. To overcome this problem, there is need to set aside a separate area to stage protests, that too, in the heart of the city," he added.
 
 HDMC commissioner Siddalingayya Hiremath said land was marked to stage protests near the Glass House in the city. "The process was delayed due to some technical problem. A protest area will be set up within a month near the Glass House, with proper facilities. Before that, a meeting will be convened " he added. 
 
