NEW DELHI: Probe into the death of the 23-year-old woman from West  , who was found abandoned at  , has revealed startling details about a trafficking racket being run by the prime accused, Miriam, who was arrested on Thursday.

 It was found that Miriam used to contact former Army officers and bureaucrats to employ the girls she trafficked to Delhi and charged hefty amounts for it. Police have found a series of high-value transactions in her bank accounts.
 
 Miriam and her associates used to befriend women from the tribal areas of north Bengal and bring them to Delhi on the pretext of getting them jobs. 
 
 They had tie-ups with placement agencies and the girls would be employed at houses in Karol Bagh, Civil Lines and  . Posing as a relative of the girls, Miriam would ask the employers to transfer the wages electronically into her account.
 
 Sources said that most girls did not protest as they only spoke the local dialect or were threatened with dire consequences if they tried to escape. Some of them were made to believe that Miriam would sent the wages to their family.
 
 The army officer who had employed the 23-year-old victim had insisted on paying her salary in cash as he suspected foul play by Miriam. However, Miriam managed to threaten the girl and transfer Rs one lakh to her account. Later, she later took the girl away on the pretext of getting her married. The victim was then employed at a house in Mukherjee Nagar where she was beaten up for not being able to do her chores properly.
 
 Miriam and the owner of the placement agency, through which the girls were hired, have been sent to judicial custody and charged under sections of trafficking.
 
 The girl’s body has been kept at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) mortuary and an autopsy would be conducted by a board of doctors on Saturday.
 
  “We have requested AIIMS to speed up the formalities so that the body can be handed over to the girl’s family,” said   from NGO Shakti Vahini, which has been taking care of the girl’s mother.
 
 
