KOLKATA: A little over 12 hours after the   vandalism, violence erupted in another hospital barely a kilometer away. On Thursday midnight, the state-run   Hospital turned into a war zone as touts and hoodlums engaged in a pitched battle with junior doctors following an attack on a fellow doctor on duty. One of the attackers was arrested.

 It was the admission of a patient — Howrah resident   (71) suffering from acute dementia — that sparked trouble. Doctors on duty initially refused admission citing unavailability of bed. Within minutes, the patients’ kin came with a battery of men who the junior doctors alleged were touts. Sensing trouble, the doctors admitted the patient and made space on the floor of Mackenzie ward in the main block. Junior doctor Sayantan Sinha was trying to make a channel on the patient’s hand when he was allegedly slapped and heckled by the touts. Hearing Sinha’s protests, other doctors rushed in.
 
 “The touts then forcibly took the patient to the emergency. The patient was ultimately accomodated on a bed in the emergency observation wing,” said Dr  . It was later alleged that a tout, Bikki, had charged Rs 5,000 from Mukherjee’s family for admission there. 
 
 By then, news of the assault on the junior doctor had reached the boys’ hostel. Infuriated, the doctors rushed out. While some made their way straight to the emergency section to confront the touts, others called up the hospital administrators and informed them of the volatile situation.
 
 Shortly thereafter, the junior doctors alleged 20 motorcycle-borne rowdies carrying rods and hockey sticks raided the hospital campus. “They were all drunk,” said Dr  .
 
 A clash ensued in front of the boys’ hostel. A police team rushed in. Even as the raiders attempted to flee, the junior doctors managed to catch hold of one of them, Sambhu Mistry, and handed him to the cops. The accused is not a relative of the patient. 
 
 The junior doctors returned to agitate on Thursday and gheraoed the IPGMER director from noon to 3.30pm. They dispersed only after an assurance.
 
 “Some of our demands include immediate arrest of those involved in the assault, hauling up infrastructure, adequate security cover, ban on touts and a proper referral system,” said Dr   of Junior Doctor Unity Forum.
 
