PUNE: Main accused Yogesh Raut had made an extra-judicial confession to the accused-turned-approver,  , about having killed Nayana Pujari in Zarewadi forest on the intervening night of October 7 and 8, 2009, special public prosecutor Harshad Nimbalkar told the trial court on Friday.

 Nimbalkar was arguing on the point of the approver’s evidence as part of his final arguments in the trial before additional sessions judge L L Yenkar. Chaudhary was working as a security guard in the software company at Kharadi where Pujari was employed as an engineer. 
 
 In October 2010, Chaudhary recorded his confessional statement before a first class judicial magistrate after his plea to turn an approver was granted by the sessions court. He was also examined and cross-examined on the issue of confessional statement during the recording of evidence. 
 
 Chaudhary had joined Raut and the two other accused, Mahesh Thakur and Vishwas Kadam, in gang-raping the victim in the car they used for kidnapping her from the Kharadi bypass on the night of October 7, 2009. The gang-rape was committed at four different locations before they stopped at an eatery near Wadhu Phata on Pune-Ahmednagar Road for dinner, nearly an hour after midnight. Chaudhary then learnt that the victim belonged to the same company where he was working. 
 
 Nimbalkar said, “Raut and the other two accused told Chaudhary that they were planning to kill Pujari. However, Chaudhary did not want to be a part of the murder plan and parted ways with the three accused. The trio even threatened him against disclosing their acts to anyone. Around 10am on October 8, 2009, Raut called Chaudhary on the latter’s cellphone and informed that they had killed Pujari and thrown her body in the Zarewadi forest and that, he (Chaudhary) should no more worry about the matter.”
 
 Nimbalkar argued that Raut’s call informing Chaudhary about the murder amounted to an extra-judicial confession and the same ought to be weighed in with Chaudhary’s confessional statement, which was reliable as it was recorded on his own free will without any external pressure, threat or coercion. 
 
 The special public prosecutor also cited various   rulings where it has been held that in the case of an approver’s evidence, the court has to assess whether the approver was making true and correct disclosures. He submitted that Chaudhary’s confessional statement, which further stood corroborated during the recording of evidence, showed that he had made true and correct disclosure. When his evidence is corroborated then that itself is sufficient to result in conviction, Nimbalkar argued. 
 
 He said Chaudhary not only corroborated the other circumstances on record, but also disclosed several minute details that only he and the three accused could have been privy of. For instance, the language they used among each other for committing the offence, he said.
 
 The prosecution is likely to complete its final arguments on Saturday, following which defence lawyer B A Aloor will begin with his final arguments. Accused Raut, Thakur and Kadam are being tried for murder, gang-rape, robbery, attempt to destroy evidence and other offences. 
 
