Exactly two years after Bhopal Municipal Corporation ( ) pulled down the front façade of historic  , state archaeology is set to undertake restoration of the same. It comes with a rider— the archaeologists have not found a way to re-create the glories arch of Indo-French architecture.

 Directorate of archaeology, archives and museums current proposal will restore front road facing sections of Moti  , Sheesh Mahal and  . “The proposal has been approved and a tender bid has been allotted. Work should commence in the coming days,” said state archaeology’s deputy director (technical) KK Barai. The project would cost about Rs 17 lakh. Earlier in July 2015, BMC had pulled down the front façade of the 18th century palace citing threat to public safety on the BRTS corridor below. Conservationists had argued at that time that the move by BMC to pull down the front façade was not the only alternative available.
 
 In the last two years, conservationists claim that improper intervention by the BMC has made the structure even more dangerous. Heavy rains have not helped matters either and the decision to bring down the front wall of the palace is threatening the structure of the building,” said heritage conservationist SM Husain.
 
 In the quadrant Shaukat Mahal, the structure close to Sadar Manzil, was the first building in the city with a European influence. It also needs immediate attention. The palace a fusion of Italian, Gothic and Islamic architecture contains fountains made of iron and copper has walls and ceilings replete with carvings, coloured glass work, stucco work, and woodcarvings. Talks have been around for restoration of Shaukat Mahal but it has never turned into reality. There are 16 families who live in the complex that has over 53 rooms, a garden compound and hosts a restaurant, homoeopathic college and other commercial activities. The 187-year-old Shaukat Mahal was the residence of Nawab Sikandar Begum who ruled from 1816-1868.
 
 Sources said archaeology department officials are apprehensive if all the 16 families residing at Shaukat Mahal would come on the same page to permit the restoration work. A mediator for the families, said, “The officials had come and after inspection they have not returned. Our hopes are raised often over conservation efforts, but they need to be implemented. It is not for the first time that government has offered to carry out restoration work. We would do all that is possible to preserve history.”
 
 
