NEW DELHI: For fear of not having enough support in the   on May 7, two office bearers of the board - Amitabh Choudhary and Anirudh Chaudhary - conducted a teleconference with a selected few board members and decided to issues a notice to the International Cricket Council ( ) on Tuesday to rectify the Member Participation Agreement's (MPA) breach. A meeting that lasted nearly 20 minutes and attended by former   chief N Srinivasan from London along other 12 members took the call to issue the   termination notice. 

 Sources said that Vidharbha Cricket Association, from where ICC chairman   represented in BCCI, was surprisingly called on a half-an-hour notice and its president Anand Jasiwal protested against issuing such a termination notice. "If they don't agree with us, we also can't agree with them," a board functionary said.
 
 Apart from Tamil Nadu and Vidharbha, cricket associations' representatives from Jharkhand, Saurashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Kerala, Karnataka, Assam, Cricket Club of India, Baroda. Jammu & Kashmir and Railways attended the teleconference on Tuesday morning. 
 
 Chairman of the Committee of Administrator   was, however, not amused with such a move. "My advice to them was that MPA isn't an ordinary contract. It's a policy decision which covers eight years and it will bind future generation of office-bearers. I have advised them that major policy decision must be taken only by SGM,"   told TOI on Tuesday morning.
 
 Earlier, the board functionary had claimed that all are invited to attend the teleconference but the reality was different. With Rajasthan Cricket Association not being a suspended body and uncertainty over the Delhi & District Cricket Association's participation in the May 7 meeting, those opposing India's participation in the ICC events would need at least 15 votes to make a resolution.
 
 "We are not a financial institution that we have to talk about money all the time. Cricket should be our prime concern and nothing else. The BCCI is for cricket and our team playing in Champions Trophy should be the main concern of the SGM," a top functionary said while making it clear that the house is clearly divided.
 
 Acting BCCI president   said that the solution to the problem would only happen after the SGM. "It's very important and sensitive issue and we have to throughly analyse it from all angles before taking any final call on this subject," Khanna added.
 
 Earlier, it was also revealed that those also against the idea of India playing the Champions Trophy are in touch with the affiliated members of BCCI and trying to build a consensus and outvote the majority. There is also a section in BCCI who are apprehensive that if the SGM does clear the move to boycott the mini-World Cup in England, the CoA would be heading straight to the Supreme Court which won't be reflect well.
 
 Before SGM, the CoA's chairman Rai would also meet the BCCI members on May 5 and 6 and explain the pros and cons of the ICC's financial structure as well as talking about on how to implement the Lodha committee's reforms.
 
 "It doesn't look nice to be in a confrontational mood all the time. We have to ensure that it is a win-win situation for all the stakeholders," another BCCI sources said while adding that pulling out of the Champions Trophy isn't the only issue here. If India pulls out of the event, it would mean separating from ICC altogether. Because the India Under-19 World Cup is scheduled to be held in June. Even the 2017 Women's Cricket World Cup is supposed to be held from June 24 to July 23.
 
