NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to   and six states seeking their response on why self-styled 'gau rakshaks dal' be not banned for allegedly creating disharmony among various communities and castes and indulging in mob violence.

 A bench headed by Justice Dipak Misra asked the governments to file response within three weeks and posted the case for further hearing to May 3. It passed the order on a PIL filed by   leader Tehseen Poonawalla seeking ban on such groups.
 
 Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for the petitioner, told the court that people were being attacked by such vigilante groups and the court should intervene to direct the states not to give protection to them.
 
 The petition alleged that " 
  ", which have been active across the country and carrying on their illegal activity, were spreading violence and committing atrocities against dalits and minority communities and pleaded the court to direct the Centre and states to take action against them.
 
 "The petitioner humbly submits that the menace caused by the so called cow protection groups is spreading fast to every nook and corner of the country and is creating disharmony among various communities and castes. These vigilantes groups are operating beyond the realm of law and are known to take law in their hands," the petition said.
 
 Highlighting the menace of   groups, Poonawala, who claims to be a political analyst and social activist, referred an incident in 
  where seven dalits were thrashed for skinning a dead cow. He said that similar incidents had occurred in Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra and  .
 
 "In most of the cases the police and other law enforcement agencies are either complicit in such illegal actions or have merely been mute spectators against such evil. Therefore Centre and states should be directed to take immediate and necessary actions against such groups and also to ban them," he said.
 
 "The actions of cow protection groups infringe the personal liberty of the victim. The actions of public flogging, urinating on the victim forcing them to eat cow dung takes away the victims right to life and personal liberty and the court should intervene to protect people from such groups," the petition said.
 
 
 
 
