Bhopal: Saba Farooqui, one of the convicts in the Shehla Masood murder case, walked out of prison on bail after five years on Friday evening, and told TOI that she was falsely implicated to shield someone else.

 “Mujhe zabardasti fasaya gaya. kuch logon ko bachane ke liye... jinka naam iss case mey pehle se aa raha tha. Mujhe fasaya gaya (I was implicated to save some people whose names have been linked to the case from the very beginning),” Saba told TOI on Friday evening. She walked out of Ujjain jail around 6.30pm.
 
 Shehla Masood, an RTI activist, was found shot dead outside her Koh-e-Fiza home in Bhopal on August 16, 2011. On January 28, 2017, Saba, Zahida Pervez and two ‘shooters’ were convicted by a CBI court in Indore for the murder. Saba and Zahida appealed in high court against their conviction and got bail on Thursday.
 
 “Agar hum yaha se nikal jaate toh obviously un par ilzam aata (If we had got out of jail then obviously they would have been caught),” Saba told TOI on Friday. She wouldn’t take any names, though, saying: “I am still under duress and trauma.” 
 
 “I was accused of being a confidante of Zahida, but mere allegations do not work. They need to be established in court. I have full faith in high court and inshallah, I will get justice,” she said. 
 
 Saba’s counsel, advocate Ajay Gupta, said, “The evidence was weak and she was behind bars for more than five years. The first thing she said after stepping out of jail was that despite being innocent she was in jail for so long. She thanked me for helping her get justice.” 
 
 Saba, a resident of Ahata Rustam Khan area in Bhopal, was on her way home from Ujjain along with family members when this report was filed. 
 
 The Indore bench of high court, in its order dated July 6, 2017, noted that with regard to the murder, no direct role is attributed to Saba, except that she was a close friend of Zahida Parvez and was sharing certain facts with her. The court allowed her bail on a personal bond of Rs 40,000.
 
 
