SALIGAO: He may be the tourism minister and have in his side the advantage of being in power for the last five years, but, getting a seat in the state legislative assembly in the 2017 election is not going to be an easy task for   (BJP) Saligao   Dilip Parulekar.

 With approximately 25,928 voters, Saligao constituency comprises six village panchayats: Saligao, Verem-Reis Magos, Nerul, Pilerne, Sangolda and Guirim.
 
 This time, the constituency will see BJP’s incumbent MLA defending his seat against Goa Forward Party’s (GFP) Jayesh Salgaonkar, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Dattatraya ‘Pradeep’ Padgaonkar, Congress’ Agnelo Fernandes, Shiv Sena’s (SS) Rajesh Dabholkar and   of India’s (CPI) Gajanan Naik.
 
 Parulekar’s stint in power has been mired in controversy since 2012. Trajano D’Mello was a thorn in his side. D’Mello, who contested the Saligao seat on a Congress ticket as well as an independent candidate in the past, filed cases against Parulekar for allegedly grabbing Serula comunidade land and for failing to get the organizers of electronic dance music (EDM) festivals to pay their pending dues to the state government.
 
 In the Serula land grab case, the high court, in May 2016, directed the state government to stop the unauthorized occupation of the comunidade land and asked it to restore the property to its original state. The order was challenged before the Supreme Court, which upheld the high court order.
 
 In November 2016, the high court directed EDM festival organizers to pay their dues of the last five years, from 2011-2015, to various government departments, until which permissions to host the festival were not to be granted. The development saw the EDM festivals move out of the state.
 
 Parulekar’s actions also came under scrutiny after the opposition alleged corruption in the beach cleaning contracts, which they said were tendered at inflated costs, and pleaded that the matter be investigated by the Lokayukta.
 
 Among the works carried out by Parulekar, the beautification of the Saligao junction is one that stands out.
 
 Seeking re-election as MLA for the third consecutive time in the February 4 polls, Parulekar faces a tougher fight than in the 2012 assembly polls when he won by a margin of almost 6,000 votes against his nearest rival, independent candidate, Tulio de Souza.
 
 While Parulekar holds an edge in this poll too, Salgaonkar is likely to give him a run for his money. Both, Parulekar and Salgaonkar are from the Bhandari community, which comprises 60% of the 75% Hindu voter population in the constituency.
 
 Salgaonkar, a former North Goa zilla panchayat chief and former Congress youth leader, was a close aide of former Calangute MLA Fernandes, who is also contesting the Saligao seat. After a fallout between the two, Fernandes fielded his own candidate in the last ZP polls ensuring Salgaonkar’s ouster, putting Parulekar’s man at the post.
 
 Three village panchayats — Verem-Reis Magos, Pilerne and Nerul — which were part of the Calangute constituency, were included in the new Saligao constituency after the 2010 delimitation. Fernandes represented these areas as the Calangute MLA for two terms and is likely to still retain pockets of support in these villages.
 
 Salgaonkar’s campaign has been gaining ground over the last three weeks, and it seemed a tougher contest would be on the cards if the proposed Congress-GFP alliance had to materialize.
 
 “Before the Congress-GFP alliance was being talked about, an activist-cum-lawyer in the Congress was pushing Tulio’s name as the party candidate with the high command in Delhi. That stopped when the understanding was forged and Congress agreed to support the GFP candidate in the Saligao constituency. But, as soon as the understanding fell through, Fernandes’ connections with the AICC ( ) general secretary and Goa desk in-charge Digvijaya Singh got him the Congress ticket,” said a source.
 
 Fernandes surprised all when he agreed to contest in Saligao on the Congress ticket, having earlier refused to contest from the constituency, demanding instead that he be given the ticket to contest the Calangute seat.
 
 The revolt by 13 members of the Saligao Congress block against Fernandes’ candidature was another twist in the story. The development was a shot in the arm for Salgaonkar’s poll campaign with prospects of his victory turning brighter.
 
 Another area of concern for Parulekar is a section of his former supporters, who have fallen out of favour with him. The undercurrent against Parulekar in this section is strong, and it has flown towards the Salgaonkar camp.
 
 While SS candidate Dabholkar will cut into Salgaonkar’s votes in his native village of Verem-Reis Magos, AAP’s Padgaonkar is likely to get a sizeable vote share in Saligao and Guirim, among other areas.
 
 While Salgaonkar’s camp brushes off the threat that Fernandes’ candidature will eat into their vote share, the BJP and disgruntled Congress camps are very sure that he will cause damage, and ensure Parulekar’s victory.
 
 An analysis of Saligao constituency currently shows Salgaonkar and Parulekar almost running neck and neck. Expect more twists and turns in the days to come before the polls.
 
 
