Mumbai:   company,   has rationalised its R&D programme to focus on specialised research for discovery of   and  , in a move which led to the exit of 52-odd employees recently. Earlier this year, Cipla dropped its biologics plan due to over-competition, while Piramal Life Sciences shut its innovative research business a couple of years ago in a cost-cutting move. 

 The domestic pharmaceutical sector is facing stiff headwinds this year, with margins of most drug companies under pressure, bogged down by price erosion in US businesses and regulatory issues plaguing major companies. To compound troubles, their domestic businesses are also impacted by implementation of Goods and Services Act. 
 
 Companies restructure pipelines, slash R&D budgets and axe staff to tide over tough times, industry experts say. When contacted, a Lupin official confirmed the development, saying the rationalisation will not affect its R&D spending of Rs 500 crore per quarter this fiscal, and the move was not a cost-cutting exercise. The company invested 13.5% of its net sales in research in FY2017.
 
 Lupin has over 1,800 scientists working on R&D focused on complex generics (including areas like   and  ),  ,   and specialty. A majority of employees who were asked to leave, were serving junior functions, he said. 
 
 Lupin is not shutting down its R&D unit, he stated, adding, “We are rationalising the early-stage drug discovery programme to focus on other near-term and mid-term opportunities for Lupin — complex generics and specialty. This does not have any impact on our late stage developments — from our novel drug delivery system ( ) pipeline — which continue as such.”
 
 The first quarter numbers for the company were muted. While announcing the Q1 FY2018 results last month, Nilesh Gupta, company’s MD, said, “The results were below our own expectations on account of higher than anticipated price erosion in select products like  , disruption on count of   implementation in India and appreciation in the rupee. Our focus remains on building our complex generic pipeline, operational excellence, regulatory compliance and building a differentiated specialty business.” 
 
 The company said it will continue to focus on the late-stage developments from their   pipeline. “We currently have three compounds in Phase II clinical trials. We will continue to focus on select high-value early-stage NCE (new chemical entity) opportunities also”, he added. 
 
 
