PATNA: Four unidentified armed criminals looted Rs 7 lakh from one Pawan Kumar, a private firm employee, at Dr Gyanendra Gali under the Bakhtiyarpur police station area in Patna district on Wednesday.

 “Pawan was on his bike when the four criminals intercepted him. Two of them took him at gunpoint, snatched the bag he was carrying and walked away,” Bakhtiyarpur SHO Lalan Kumar said and added that some people had spotted the criminals fleeing and police were trying to ascertain their identity.
 
 “The criminals had not covered their faces and the   footage near the place of occurrence was being scanned,” the SHO said. 
 
 Six flats burgled: Unidentified thieves burgled six flats in a private building at   under   police station area in the city on Tuesday night. SHO Ranjan Kumar said neither the locks nor the doors were broken, giving rise to suspicion that someone residing inside the building was involved in the theft. He said forensic experts were called, but they did not get any clue. The SHO said all the flat occupants were tenants and had gone out on Holi vacation. He said three suspects had been detained for interrogation.
 
 Liquor seized from garbage dump: Gandhi Maidan police seized 28 cartons (336 bottles) of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) from a garbage dump at Bhattacharya Road on Wednesday. Gandhi Maidan SHO Priya Ranjan said three suspects had been detained.
 
 Seven arrested: Alamganj police arrested seven persons and seized three regular rifles and 33 live cartridges from their possession during a regular checking at Gandhi Setu Tuesday night. Alamganj SHO Om Prakash said though the arms were licensed, they were not being carried by authorised persons. He said they were returning to Barh from Vaishali after attending a marriage function.
 
 BELCHHI CASH LOOT: 10 DAYS ON, POLICE STILL GROPING IN DARK
 
 Even after 10 days of Belchhi cash van loot case, Patna police have no clue about the criminals involved in the incident.
 
 Bike-borne criminals had looted Rs60 lakh in front of the   (PNB) branch at Bagha Tila under Belchhi police station area in Patna district on March 6. Two private guards — Yogeshwar Das (50) and   (55) -- were shot dead while the SUV driver Anand Kumar succumbed to his bullet injuries received during the loot. 
 
 “Two suspects have been detained in Nalanda for interrogation,” Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj said, adding that investigation was on.
 
 A police officer said a team of experts in call detail record analysis and investigation on the tower dump data of the cellphones of the area have also failed to get any vital information about the loot or the movement of the suspects. “It’s a taal (waterlogged low lying area) and there was no eyewitness to tell which way the criminals escaped. We are sure they fled towards Nalanda after looting the cash,” said a police officer involved in the investigation.
 
 He also said the police interrogated the sweeper who had entered the bank on Sunday for cleaning the premises. “Disconnection of CCTV power during Sunday’s cleaning left no clue for police for identification of the criminals,” he said, adding that around 15 persons have been quizzed by police after the loot. He also said the bank employees also could not provide any clue to the police.
 
