BHOPAL: It was a little after 11pm on Thursday when the drill finally broke through, and there was an instant burst of stench — the unmistakable reek of rotting flesh.

 Among the cops standing around the homemade tomb, there was the grim realisation that the last sliver of hope was shut.  , who had run over all the way from Bengal to seek love, was dead. And the man she gave herself up for, prime suspect  , stood in a corner like stone, unmoved, watching his grisly handiwork unfold. From the ceiling, dangled a noose that he had tied for himself weeks ago — a macabre sign of the darkness that surrounds the house.
 
 The digging had been on for over three hours and it took three more hours to extract Akansha’s body. The concrete tomb had been built so strongly — allegedly by Udyan himself — that crowbars snapped in two and police had to use a mechanical drill. When Akansha left her home in Bankura, telling her parents she was going abroad to look for a job, she had no way of knowing she would end up in a 2x3-foot box.
 
 Her left hand was the first to show through the block of concrete. Like archaeologists at a dig, police carefully chiselled her body out of the cement, cautious not to damage any evidence that could show up in autopsy. As more of the body showed, the stench spread through the first floor of the MIG-62 bungalow in Saket Nagar. Policemen covered their noses with handkerchiefs. Udyan stood unmoved.
 
 When TOI visited the house during the dig and again on Friday, the room seemed like a dungeon, filthy, gloomy and eerie. Dirty plates (blackened by rotting leftover food), empty liquor bottles, endless cigarette butts, and grimy clothes lying all over the floor. They may well have lain like that for the last months — if Akansha was alive till December as Udyan initially claimed, it’s unlikely she would have left the house go to rot.
 
 Police say she first came in contact with Udyan Das when she was 16 years old and studying at the prestigious   in Jaipur. They met for the first time in 2007 when he visited her campus. Then, the friendship continued on the social networking site Orkut. They did not meet on Facebook last June, as Udyan had claimed on Thursday, say police.
 
 An officer of   police station, who is attached with the investigation, said, “According to his statement, the next time he met her in person was in Kolkata in 2014. The next year, they again met in Delhi and continued meeting each other. Over time, the girl got into a relationship with him.”
 
 An officer of Bankura police station, who had come over in search of Akansha, said, “The girl belongs to a very good family. They recently shifted from Patna. Akansha and Udyan were meeting regularly for the last two to three years. He told the girl that he was living in America but actually lived in Bhopal.”
 
 An investigating officer said that Udyan often asked her to meet him in Delhi after which he used to bring her to Bhopal. After spending some days here, they used to return to Delhi. “There he would tell her that that he was leaving for USA. He continued this process for three years,” added the Bankura officer.
 
 She even lured her with a promise of a job in USA. This is perhaps why she told her parents that she was leaving for a job in the States. In June last year, she came to Delhi with money and her passport to meet Udyan, who brought her to Bhopal instead. The lie quickly broke apart. Twenty days later, she was dead, say police.
 
