In the latest episode of  , Abhi ( ) is seen glaring into the eyes of Munni ( ) when he disappears in the crowd and he leaves the stage and goes to the green room. Purab (Vin Rana) comes looking for him and asks him the reason behind leaving the stage. He tells Purab that he saw Pragya aka Munni in the crowd and that she has finally returned on her birthday. He tells Purab that she was dressed weird in a lehenga choli and was trying to say something to him, but he couldn't understand.
 
  Purab isn't ready to believe what Abhi is saying and says that he would go out and look for her. Purab goes to the gate and shows the gaurds Pragya's pic asking if they have seen her at the concert. They say they might have but don't remember. Purab then asks them to seal the gates and not let anyone leave. Alia ( ) and Tanu ( ) also reach at the venue and split in different directions.
  
  Purab overhears two terrorists talking to each other, where one is seen telling the other to wear the jacket with bomb on it and pull the trigger when he is among the crowd at the concert. Puab goes in and walks past the crowd when he gets a glimpse of Munni, but she disappears soon after. Abhi comes face to face, but as they are looking at each other, a terrorist comes inside and pushes Munni aside by her arm.
  
  Backstage, Rishabh is seen telling Karan to stay at the concert for some more time as he has to go on the stage once, but he says that he has to leave as he has a date scheduled. Rishabh agrees and Karan thanks him for taking his side.
  
  
 
  
  A guard comes in and tells Rishabh that the terrorists have sneaked into the concert and are threatening to kill everyone in a bomb blast. Rishabh rushes outside and tries to explain him to not give up his life in this, rather save the people. Abhi comes up and explains the terrorist to not give up his life on something like this, instead look at the children and families around him who are going to suffer because of him. The terrorist throws away the jacket and on seeing this his partner shoots him and picks up the jacket. Purab pushes away the jacket when the terrorist tries to approach it.
  
  However, the terrorist picks up the jacket and is about to pull press the button when Karan picks up his bat and aims his ball at the terrorists' hand, who loses control of the jacket.
  
  Karan winks at Abhi and leaves.
  
  Keep watching this space for more updates. Kumkum Bhagya airs on Zee TV at 9 pm, Monday to Friday.
  
  
 
  
  
 
