HYDERABAD: Festive fervour hit a crescendo in the city on   eve as revellers cutting across communities poured onto the streets to soak in the festivities. Right from glitzy   nights venues to elaborate Durga puja pandals, enthusiastic Hyderabadis flocked in large numbers to make the most of the concluding day of  .

 And not even the intermittent spells of rainfall leaving their outfits drenched or preferred venues slushy with mud and roads gridlocked could dampen spirits.
 
 "We impatiently wait for Navratri so that we can dance away to our heart's content.Though this time the rains played spoilsport, it couldn't stop us from participating in   events," said Shriya Gupta of Secunderabad.
 
 Like Shriya, scores braved the inclement weather to participate in the festivities with friends and family. "The response has been overwhelming. We were forced to turn away some as the venue was packed," said Bharat Kumar, head (client relations) at Gleefie, that organised a Dandiya event in Hyderabad for the first time and was surprised at the average footfalls of 800. Old favourites like the Namdhari Gaurav Navratri Utsav, which entered its 17th year, too reported a massive rush at its venue, S S Convention Centre, Shamshabad.
 
 Scenes at Durga pandals dotting the city were much the same. Dressed in all their finery , revellers made their way through the muck and chaos to play audience to a cultural programme or sink their teeth into a plate of scrumptious food.
 
 The rush at Durga temples too hit a peak. "Footfalls were higher than regular days," said Ajit Singh, chairman of   in Kacheguda that was decked up with flowers.
 
 Traders at local markets, who were shivering at the prospect of rains pouring cold water on sales, were only too relieved to see buyers flooding stores on Friday evening to buy flowers, lanterns, lights and other gifts for Dasara.
 
 Preparations of another kind were underway at places such as Amberpet Municipal Grounds and Exhibition Grounds that organise Ramleela and Ravan Dahan on Dasara night, with organisers unfazed by the rains. "The stage area is covered and it isn't the first time that it's rained during the festive season. We are fully equipped to tackle any situation," said a confident   from the Ramayan Mela Organisation that conducts the event every year at Nampally.
 
