After the Pushkar-based show  , its sequel   is all set to show   culture on TV. Based on the life of a middle-class family , the show will take forward the story of Kanak Rathi, daughter of Sooraj-Sandhya (lead characters of the original show).
The star cast was recently in the Pink City for promotions, and indulged in Rajasthani food at a resort in the city .Neelu Vaghela, who plays Bhabho on the show and is also a popular Rajasthani actor, ensured that everyone had the traditional thali for lunch.
 
 
 
 
 There are no dearth of serials either based in Rajasthan or shot here, on TV. Commenting on the trend,  , who plays Kanak, says, “I am a Rajasthani. The state has something different to offer, and that is the reason why we see so many shows on television with stories based on Rajasthan.Its colourful culture and heritage attract people from all across the country. It offers a complete package for television stories. Owing to so many features, the first season became a hit, and now the onus is on us.“
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Neelu adds, “Audiences want wholesome entertainment with an ample dose of fun. The production houses are trying their best to present India in a beautiful manner. We get to see emotions, drama and culture on a single show, and that takes the show up on the popularity charts.“
 
 While Neelu appreciates Indian TV for portraying the state so beautifully on their shows, she is disappointed with the slow death of Rajasthani cinema.Neelu, who has done more than 50 Rajasthani films, adds, “TV is giving better quality of entertainment, but Rajasthani filmmakers fail to give a quality product and compromise on content and actors. You will have to strike a chord with the viewers to make regional films a hit.“
 
 
 
 
 The show Diya Aur Baati Hum aired on prime-time slot and had a huge fan following. The sequel will be aired during the afternoons. Neelu said, “It was completely the channel's and makers' call to begin the show this way . It's a risk to make a sequel in a time when sequels of superhit films don't do well and crash at the box office. The sequel, without Sooraj and Sandhya, being aired during the afternoons will be another struggle for the show. But we have crossed our fingers and are hoping for the best.“
 
 
 
  
 
