CHENNAI: After more than a dozen marathons, a triathlon, one half Ironman, and another much-celebrated Ironman -after all, at 67, he was the oldest Indian to become one -Arun   has begun the next leg of his fitness endeavour -that of starting a Triathlon Gym in the city.Seemingly the first-of-its-kind in India, the gym, with its underwater treadmill, endless pool, medical treadmill and stationary cycle, is geared toward helping the growing tribe of triathletes in the city inch toward their goal, injury-free and with perfected technique.A tribe, incidentally, that's growing in leaps and bounds, pace and pedal. Since 2012, when the first sprint triathlon was hosted in the city by the  , the numbers have grown to at least 1,000 triathletes, says city-based endurance coach  .

 “Half of that number is people who just want to try their hand at it, about 100 are people who are serious about triathlons.Of that, about 20 take part in races outside the city, and a handful try triathlons outside India. But every year you see more people having a go at it,“ adds the 29-yearold four-time Ironman, who started running in 2005. “Although nothing beats training outdoors, correcting technique is easier indoors, so a specialised gym would help in that regard,“ adds Shankaranarayanan, who is now training 55 endurance athletes in the city .
 
 “As one ages, one needs to pay more attention to technique than raw power because that's what keeps you going without injury in the long run,“ says Krishnan, adding that the studio will be up and running in October.
 
 “This gym is as different from the usual fitness centre as a homestay is from a hotel.The training is completely personalised to racing, rehabilitation and recovery,“ adds Krishnan. The land treadmill, for instance, is unlike the regular one, which has a bulky headboard, to make videography of gait possible, while the underwater treadmill takes the weight off the joints and is perfect for those recovering from injury .
 
 The endless pool offers currents of different magnitude generated to offer resistance to the swimmer who remains in one spot and can view the technique in the mirror fixed to the bottom of the pool.
 
 Consultant spine surgeon  , who admits to being hooked to triathlons since 2014, says in the last few years he has seen more endurance runners and cyclists hitting the road in hordes. “Clearly more people are seeing the direct benefits of getting into things that make them healthier,“ says 40-year-old, adding that since 2012, he has been participating in the triathlons in the city, of which there are around three or four a year.
 
 “I started with doing a bunch of half marathons and then began increasing the distance. When you keep running, you find that you are getting faster, stronger, fitter and that just makes you want to take the next step. In most cases, it's the triathlon.“
 
 And then, when you succeed, you just want to tri, tri again.
 
