PUNE: The civic administration is unlikely to meet its target of completing the laying of underground water pipeline from Parvati water works to Pune Cantonment water works before monsoon as only 50% work has been done so far.

 The administration's initial plan was to complete the work by May , but it now appears that the target will not be met.
 
 There is a plan to lay a 2,200mm wide and 6.4km long cast iron pipeline from Parvati water works up to Cantonment water works to reduce water loss in transportation, leakages, evaporation and to stop drawing water from the Mutha canal.
 
 The pipeline will run along the existing canal and go via   to Canton ment water works on  .
 
 The administration has so far completed laying of about 3km of pipeline. However, work in crucial patches, such as slum areas and   has not been completed yet.
 
 Officials said, at least six more months will be required to complete the project considering the slow down in work during rainy days and when water is released from the canal at maximum speed. Sources said, the delay could lead to cost escalation of the project to some extent.
 
 An official said, “Laying of pipes along the existing canal is not easy. About 4.9 kilometre stretch of this pipeline is planned along the ca nal. The work in these patches is challenging because the canal's wall is not very strong. The rock under the soil is another cause for worry.“
 
 Sources in the administration said, authorities were yet to tackle areas like Janata Vasahat, through where the pipeline has been routed.These are densely populated areas and authorities will have to work out a plan to ensure that the work does not get delayed because of opposition from local people.
 
 Presently , the team on duty is laying about five to six pipes every day and covering about 30 metres. The pipeline will cross the canal near Dhobi Ghat. 
 
 Authorities said, they will soon decide if the pipeline would go underground in this stretch. The location of the crossing would be finalized in the next few days, authorities said.
 
