SONARPUR: A 29-year-old dog lover fell victim to her neighbours’ rage at Sonarpur. Priyanka Bhattacharya, daughter of former police officer  , alleged that her neighbour, his wife and associates attacked her home and assaulted her for feeding strays in the neighbourhood. Bhattacharya has also accused them of killing a dog and taking away the carcass.

 Accused   denied having assaulted Bhattacharya at all and said there was nothing more than an altercation between them. However, Bhattacharya said she underwent medical examination twice and there was enough evidence of assault on her. She has lodged a complaint at Sonarpur police station against Pramanik, his wife Kanak and his unknown associates. 
 
 “I was feeding dogs in the afternoon when one of them barked at a mason who was passing by. He picked up and hurled a brick at the dog. I protested and an altercation broke out. He, however, left after a while,” Bhattacharya said.
 
 In the evening, the Pramanik couple and their associates visited Bhattacharya in her house. “They barged into my house, assaulted me and threatened me with dire consequences if I continued to feed dogs and jeopardize the peace of the locality. They did not want to listen to my logic.” Bhattacharya also alleged that they killed a dog and took the carcass away before she could protest. “They also injured a dog, which I shifted to a NGO for treatment.”
 
 Bhattacharya said she has been feeding street dogs for the past four years after her father retired and settled in Sonarpur. “Every morning and evening, I go out and feed strays along the 1km stretch of the road. Locals tried to discourage me by saying unkind words. They accuse of making the dogs aggressive. But on the contrary, I feed them and make them well behaved. I am held responsible if the dogs bark too much. The neighbours don’t understand how insecure our locality will become without the dogs,” Bhattacharya said.
 
    said, “It is a risk to walk on the road since the dogs often jump on us, thinking we have food. It is an unnecessary menace,” adding that Bhattacharya‘s complaint is false.
 
 Arko Banerjee, SDPO Baruipur, said: “We have received the complaint. We have completed preliminary inquiry and appropiate legal action will be taken soon.”
 
