AHMEDABAD: The   corridor has the second largest passenger density in the world, coming after Osaka-Tokyo in Japan, said Professor G Raghuram, director of Indian Institute of Management- Banaglore (IIMB), and author of the research study titled ‘Dedicated High Speed  : Issues in Development.’ Raghuram stressed that 80 trips of the   every day on this local route may turn the high speed rail (HSR) project economically feasible.

  Raghuram, who heads Public Policy Center in IIM-B also believes that economic viability should not be the only aspect of consideration for bullet train as the HSR network will lead to around 40% rise in travel by those not regualr commuters on Ahmedabad-Mumbai route.
 
 “We have proposed that 100 trips every day, even after 15 years, will have to be made for financial viability of the project. In my own judgement, 100 trips seem quite feasible as Ahmedabad-Mumbai is a high density corridor which is second probably only to   in the world,” added Raghuram.
 
 Raghuram said that apart from financial viability, the addvanced technology will push significant industrial development between Ahmedabad-Mumbai corridor when combined with efforts of industrious Gujarati people. “If you look at the economic viability, it can be achieved with fewer trips. Even 80 trips could suffice,” Raghuram told TOI.
 
 Raghuram stressed instead of analysing if bullet train is financially viable or not, time has come to adopt the high speed network which is operational in six to seven odd countries. “My main contention is that as long as the ticket is priced at affordable rates enabling the lower income groups like artisans, plumber, workers and salesmen to travel, their economic productivity will go up substantially,” he said.
 
 The high-speed train, which is expected to begin operating in 2022, will run at a maximum speed of 350 kmph and will cover the 508-km stretch in under three hours. The ambitious project will cost around Rs1.10 lakh crore. Japan is giving a loan of Rs88,000 crore for the project at a minimal interest of 0.1%. 
 
