AGRA: The SP-Congress alliance, on the ground, is still struggling with teething problems as workers of the two parties are reluctant to work together. In the entire Braj region, there is no coordination between the cadres of the two parties. Candidates of the alliance partners are pitted against each other in at least eight constituencies across the state, including Koil seat in Aligarh and Baldeo seat in Mathura.
 
  Though the last date of the withdrawal of candidates for the first phase polling ended on Friday,   candidates in Koil (Aligarh) and Baldeo (Mathura) refused to back out, despite these constituencies going to the SP’s share in the seat sharing agreement.
  
  In Koil, Congress candidate   did not withdraw his candidature as he got the nod from the Congress high command on Friday and seems all set to take on SP’s Ajju Ishaq. In Baldeo, Congress’s   is pitted against SP’s Ranveer Dhangar.
  
  Talking to TOI, SP district president   said he had received information that such confusion exists in at least eight seats. He said efforts were on to resolve the matter.
  
  Vivek Bansal, who is also the National spokesperson of Congress, said his seat was announced by the party high command and, hence, he was the official candidate. He said since the party had announced his candidature, SP cannot stake a claim to it.
  
  Talking about Baldeo seat, SP district president, Mathura, Tanveer Ahmad said Congress candidate Vinesh Sonwal had agreed to withdraw his nomination but somehow the latter could not reach on time to complete the formalities. He said the issue would be resolved soon.
  
  Teething troubles of co-ordination between the workers of the two alliance partners are adding to problem of the official candidates in several constituencies. Admitting that workers of the two parties are still reluctant to work for the other party, CLP leader Pradeep Mathur said a joint meeting of the two parties will be held, where senior party leaders, including AICC secretary Zubair Khan, senior leaders Pramod Tewari and Deepender Hooda, would be present. Mathur said various contentious issues would be resolved at the earliest to ensure that the alliance does not suffer.
  
  Congress district president of Agra, Dushyant Sharma, said party workers are being harassed by SP and its cadres and, perhaps, this is the reason why Congress workers don’t want to work with SP cadres. Sharma said senior Congress leaders were trying to resolve the issues and hoped that things would fall in place soon.
  
  SP's Agra in-charge Vipul Purohit said many ticket aspirants lost their chances to contest the polls due to the seat-sharing arrangement, and their supporters are now reluctant to work. He said the party would not tolerate indiscipline and everyone would have to fall in line and work for the victory of the official candidates of the alliance.
  
  A senior SP leader said the feud in the Yadav family created a wedge among cadres, and now Shivpal loyalists are creating problems. He said Shivpal loyalists would never work for the Congress candidates.
