AMRITSAR: Enraged over   government’s denial   lodged in its jail, activists of Independent Students Federation (ISF) removed the ‘chadar’ from the grave of the great grandfather of Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif at his native village Jati Umra near Amritsar on Monday.

 “We didn’t mean to show disrespect to a dead person but we are left with no other option than to attract the attention of the Pakistan government that has been continuously refusing the presence of Nanak in its prison for the past over three decades,” said ISF president Keshav Kohli while talking to TOI on Monday.
 
 About 24 activists of the ISF gathered at Jati Umra and raised slogans against the Pakistan government, before removing the ‘chadar’ from the grave of Mian Mohammad Baksh, great grandfather of Sharif. Keshav said that it was none other but the ISF that had offered ‘chadar’ at the grave on June 10, 2016, as a mark of respect and expecting that Nawaz Sharif would personally intervene to secure release of innocent Nanak.
 
 The ISF claims that Nanak is lodged in a Pakistani jail on the mistaken identity of Kakar Singh. Its claim is based on the list of Indian prisoners given to India by the Pakistan Rangers for verification. In the list, one person’s name is mentioned as Kakar Singh, son of Rattan Singh, resident of Kot Razda Bedi Chhina. “Name of the prisoner’s father and the village is same. It is just that Nanak’s name is written as Kakar,” said Keshav.
 
 Some local villagers reportedly prevented them from raising slogans against Pakistan and removing ‘chadar’ from the grave.
 
 At the age of 5, Nanak had strayed into Pakistan in 1985 while working in a field. After an appeal by the BSF, Pakistan Rangers demanded that a herd of cattle, which they believed had entered India, be returned. Since there was no cattle herd, Pakistan Rangers denied the presence of Nanak and reportedly handed him over to the police there.
 
 Nawaz Sharif’s brother Shahbaz Sharif had visited their family’s ancestral home at Jati Umra in 2013. A couple of residents of the village are still in touch with the Sharif family and had secured jobs for their kin in Sharifs’ businesses in the Gulf.
 
 
