KOLKATA: A   could initiate a dialogue with the victim families in   where   feared to tread. In what can be called a brainwave of   , Toha Siddique used his pirzada identity to enter the villages late in the night on Wednesday to pay tribute to the departed souls.

 Toha's appeal and his demand for solatium of the victim families showed the first signs of a meltdown in the Bhangar deadlock. His phone call to Roy triggered a chain of events following which the Trinamool leader along with South 24-Parganas district magistrate P B Saleem handed over a Rs 2-lakh solatium cheque to Alamgir Mollah's family in the Bhangar 2 block development officer's office.The cheque for the other victim, Mofizul Khan, was sent by a messenger. The state also promised jobs for next of kin of both the victims.
 
 As the bodies reached villages Swarupnagar and Khamarait amid outpouring grief, Toha entered the barricaded zones to provide the much-needed succour. His stature and non-political persona, sources said, made his outreach more potent in these predominantly minority zones. “I have nothing to do with politics. People were in pain. Two young men were shot down in broad daylight. I prayed for them. It was a little after 10pm, I called Mukul Roy from there. I told him if the government can compensate a hooch victim, what wrong these two young men have done,“ he told ToI. Ac cording to sources, Mukul immediately informed the chief minister. “The cheques were handed over on Thursday,“ said DM Saleem.
 
 Toha did more than this.He took the villagers in confidence and vented his anger against local party leaders -Arabul Islam and Rezzak Molla. The Furfura Sharif cleric also criticised Kolkata mayor and minister Sovan Chatterjee who is the party's South 24-Parganas pointsperson. Sources in Trinamool believed that Toha, while acting as a safety valve, created a space for Mukul Roy who scored some brownie points in the process. “Mukhyamantrir arale tnar badnam korchhe kichhu neta (some leaders are maligning the CM behind her back),“ Toha said.The minister kept hopping television studios labouring to explain why the Power Grid land purchases won't alter the land character. During this time Mukul Roy reached out to the party workers, but remained closeted with his once-close aide, Bidhannagar mayor Sabyasachi Dutta.A desperate Arabul, who apparently has no love lost for Roy , too joined. The presence of strongmen Gaffar Mollah (who was also accused in the Vedic Village arson case) and Shahnawaz Ali Mondal (Dumpy) at the meeting, sources said, led to speculation whether Trinamool was planning to force their way in. The party did just the opposite.
 
 A senior leader indicated that the CM was averse to any high-handed measure -be it the party or police. Preliminary reports indicated that further delay in breaking the deadlock would push the situation to a point of no return.For, this political -and administrative -vacuum tends to give a free-run to “outside elements who are working to utilise the general anguish and frustration (due to multiple non-linked factors) to spearhead a public protest“.
 
 “I speak my mind. I think it was Sovan Chatterjee who fuelled the anger first by his muscle-flexing. This was compounded by Rezzak Molla's hybrid son comments. I think Mamata Banerjee was unaware,“ Toha said. He left the spot with a caution: “But the danger remains.“
 
 (With inputs from Monotosh Chakrabarty)
 
