NEW DELHI: It was a harrowing day for commuters of Delhi Metro’s blue line on Wednesday as technical snags twice in the day disrupted services severely. To make matters worse, both disruptions occurred during peak hours, resulting in delayed trains, crowded stations and a waiting period that touched 45 minutes for some. While the morning disruption was due to a signalling issue, the evening chaos was due to a problem with the identification of trains, forcing manual identification.

 The morning snag occurred when the system kept missing the signal from the track circuit near Dwarka. DMRC spokesman Anuj Dayal said, “Train services on line 3 had a minor bunching effect from 9am to noon due to a signalling issue towards Dwarka coming from Noida/Vaishali.”
 
 The track circuit was normalised only at 12.10pm. The second disruption was at 5.14pm, as the evening rush began.   officials said they would check for faults on the line at the end of Wednesday’s operations.
 
 It was a harrowing day for commuters of  's blue line on Wednesday as technical snags twice in the day disrupted services severely. To make matters worse, both disruptions occurred during peak hours, resulting in delayed trains, crowded stations and a waiting period that touched 45 minutes for some. While the morning disruption was due to a signalling issue, the evening chaos was due to a problem with the identification of trains, forcing manual identification.
 
 The morning snag occurred when the system kept missing the signal from the track circuit near Dwarka. DMRC spokesman Anuj Dayal said, “Train services on line 3 had a minor bunching effect from 9am to noon due to a signalling issue towards Dwarka co ming from NoidaVaishali.“
 
 The track circuit was normalised only at 12.10pm. The second disruption was at 5.14pm, as the evening rush began.
 
 Metro officials said they would check for faults on the line at the end of Wednesday's operations. Train services on line 34 were affected from 5.14pm due to a signall ing identification issue of trains.“ The problem could be addressed only after all the trains were given new IDs manually , which could be done only by 6.15pm.
 
 The snags resulted in massive build-ups both in the morning and evening. Commuters complained of waiting at stations for over 40 minutes, and having to travel in crowded trains. “Usually , it takes me around 25 minutes to reach Rajiv Chowk from Mayur Vihar Phase I. Today , it took more than an hour to travel the same distance, that too in an overcrowded coach as it was rush hour,“ said Mahesh Kumar, a regular commuter who boarded the train at 10am.
 
 Rajni Khurana, another commuter taking the train from Shadipur at 5.40pm, said she arrived at the station to find that the wait time for Noida was close to an hour. “It was crazy , because I had already gone through a lot of trouble in the morning and assured myself it wouldn't happen again in the evening,“ Khurana said, adding that she was stuck since she couldn't find an autorickshaw either.
 
 It's not the first time that the blue line has faced technical snags in the past few weeks. On January 3, thousands of commuters were left stranded as services crawled for several hours on the corridor due to issues in overhead wiring between Pragati Maidan and Mandi House. According to Delhi Metro officials, being exposed to the elements, including heat, cold and rain, owing to its elevated structure, the blue line is more vulnerable to technical disruptions.
 
 With around five interchange stations along its length, around 30% of the total passenger volume, over 10 lakh commuters, travel on the blue line daily.
 
 
