LUCKNOW: Cautioning government officials against anomalies at the wheat purchase centres, chief minister Aditya Nath   said that after the purchase of wheat, payment must be made to farmers within 48 to 72 hours. Reviewing the presentation of department of food and civil supplies on Wednesday, Yogi directed the officials to monitor wheat purchase on daily basis and keep their record. 

 At the presentation of labour department, the   announced that a scholarship scheme would begin from the current academic session for imparting better education to the children of registered labourers. He said under this scheme, scholarship ranging between Rs 100 to Rs 5000 per month would be made available to children from class I to class XII. He directed the officials to extend the boarding school scheme in 20 more districts to help labourers’ children.
 
 While reviewing the presentation of minority welfare department, Yogi said that the government would solemnised the wedding of 100 girl from poor minority families. Besides two daughters of BPL families of the community would be given Rs 2,000 each. He also ordered to modernise over 19,000 madrassas in the state.
 
 At the presentation of food and civil supplies department late on Wednesday vening, the CM directing the officials to take back the power of suspension of ration quota shops from sub divisional magistrates (SDMs), saying that only DMs should have this power. He also asked the officials of the civil supplies department to make a list of the employees posted at one place for long so that they could be transferred. He also directed to formulate a policy for transferring grade three employees at the state level. 
 
 He also asked the officials to conduct a new survey of BPL families so that only the needy ones could be given the benefits under the Food Security Act-2013. He also said that kerosene should not be supplied to the families which have gas and electricity connections because the Centre has to give a subsidy of Rs 25 on one litre of kerosene.
 
 He said that under  , financial assistance of Rs 55,000 in same caste marriage and Rs 61,000 for inter-caste marriages would be given to two daughters of registered labourers. The CM said under Deendayal Suraksha Bima Yojana, a work plan would be chalked out to provide security insurance cover of Rs 2 lakh to unorganised labourers. 
 
