CHANDIGARH: A special team of Haryana chief minister’s   on Wednesday conducted raids at several places in the state to check manufacture of  ,  , and arrested those engaged in unauthorized acts. 

 An official of the chief minister’s office said a raiding team detected power theft of about Rs 37.50 lakh at   in Faridabad. Theft of power was also detected at two other factories and these cases are being further investigated.
 
  He said 23 people have been arrested in connection with recovery of about 1.30 lakh bottles of illicit liquor including Indian-made foreign liquor, country-made liquor and beer. As many as 20 cases in this regard have been registered at different police stations in the state. About Rs 43,000 was seized from those caught for gambling. Two factories manufacturing ghee were raided in Gurgaon district and samples sent for investigation. Following a complaint about sale of spurious ghee, samples were also collected from some shops. Besides, three factories manufacturing tarcoal in Kaithal and Karnal districts were raided and 13 people arrested from there.
 
  He said that in a drive to check menace of drugs, three persons have been arrested following recovery of a large quantity of “Sulpha” and “Ganja”. Also, one person was arrested with  . 
 
 Six unauthorized borewells and theft of power to run these was also detected. He said that a milk manufacturing unit was raided at Sohna in Gurgaon district and further investigation was going on. Three factories manufacturing spurious cold drinks and mineral water were raided in Gurgaon and a large quantity of raw material and wrappers were seized. 
 
 Also, 125 gas cylinders stocked in an unauthorised manner were recovered from Gurgaon and Karnal. 
 
 He said that in a raid conducted at Barwala, 125kg spurious cheese was detected and samples have been sent for investigation. Raids were also conducted at a chit fund company in Saffidon. He said that two quacks were arrested at Dabwali and Fatehabad as they were posing as qualified doctors. An FIR was lodged at Bahadurgarh as registration certificates of vehicles were being made on basis of fake NOCs.
 
 
