Gurgaon:   Phase-1 is facing a four-hour power shutdown owing to work being carried out on two new feeders,which   officials said, will help bifurcate the area and provide an equitable power supply. The move, according to Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), will help avert overloading that triggers frequent tripping.

 However, the crisis, a few   said , is really testing their patience as power demand reaches new heights owing to hot weather. Residents have already started using their air conditioners early this year as the temperature is already five degrees above normal in Gurgaon. 
 
 Suparna Baghat, a resident of Sushant Lok 1, said outages for long hours are hampering her daughter’s board exam preparation. “These days we face outages from 11 am to 3 pm, which is the hottest period of the day. My daughter, who is preparing for Class 12 board exams, is struggling to concentrate on studies owing to rising temperature. Besides this, I work from home and if the inverter shuts down, it causes trouble for me too,” she said, adding that she is ready to bear this for a week if the discom fixes the power woes once and for all.
 
 TOI reported on Wednesday that discom will enforce four-hour shutdowns daily till April 4 because of the ongoing installation work of new feeders. “Two new feeders, one from Sector 43 and another from Sector 52 will be installed to tackle the rising power demand in the area, but till then people have to bear with the shutdowns,” Kuldeep Nehra, subdivision officer, DHBVN, DLF City told TOI.
 
 According to the discom official, the areas affected for the next one week are D, D1 and E block of Sushant Lok 1. Sudhir Sachdeva, another resident of Sushant Lok 1, questioned why the maintenance work is being carried at this time of year.
 
 “Why are they doing this in summers when the temperature is rising?” he asked. “They should have done all maintenance and repair work in winter. It is not only the scheduled power cuts, we also have to deal with regular power cuts.”Meanwhile discom officials told TOI that they have scaled up the power supply across Gurgaon in the wake of rising temperature and increasing demand. “Since March 27, when the supply was around 160.83 lakh units per day, they have raised the supply all the way up to 176 lakh units of power per day,” an official said.
 
 
