The third and final day of  's Youth Festival saw a power-packed performance by Punjabi singer  , who reached the campus at 8.45pm in a white luxury car. Maintaining his style quotient, the singer took the stage dressed in a black blazer paired with black aviators and a gold chain. He started the performance with his popular song, 'Lage 440 Volt Chhoone Se Tere', and went on to sing 'Amity, lage 440 volt chhoone se tere!'. Addressing the students, he said, "Main aap sab ka shukraguzaar hoon. Mujhe bahut mazaa aata hai jab main youngsters ke liye perform karta hoon." Soon after his performance, the students started gathering around the stage to get a selfie with the singer.

  
  (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
 He then sang other tracks like ' ' and 'Ibn-e-Batuta', and dedicated them to all the teachers present at the venue. He said, "Yeh slow gaane main sabhi pyaari teachers ke liye gaa raha hoon." Belting out classics like 'Yeh Shaam Mastaani', 'Dil Deke Dekho', 'Pyaar Deewana Hota Hai' and ' ', he quipped, "Let me pay a tribute to these legends. Baki ek living legend toh main yahan par khada hoon!"
 
  
  Mika even played the drums during the fest
 
 
  
 After singing slow tracks, he asked the teachers, "Okay teachers, ab main sharaafat ka chola utaar dun kya?" After getting a nod from the elated crowd, he started singing tracks like 'Dekha Jo Tujhe Yaar', 'Aaj Ki Party Meri Taraf Se', 'Gandi Baat', 'Aaja Ni Aaja Billo', 'Mauja Hi Mauja', and even played the drums. Mika jumped, hopped on the floor, and even did some bhangra moves.
 
  
  Mika sang tracks like 'Heer Toh Badi Sad Hai' and 'Ibn-e-Batuta' (BCCL/Lokesh Kashyap)
 
  
 The singer said, Main bahut se shows karta aaya hoon, but aaj jo mazaa yahan perform kar ke aa raha hai, it's amazing. You guys are the best." While interacting with the students, he shared, "Life mein padhai thodi kam karo, lekin apni teachers ki respect karo. Main paanchvi fail hoon lekin teachers ki respect ki, aur aaj unki wajah se hi main yahan pahuncha hoon."
 
 
  
  Students dancing to Mika’s songs
 
 
 
