NOIDA: A day after the district administration asked the   protesting against the   by various private schools to submit complaints against them in the next three days, parents of students studying in five private schools in Gautam Budh Nagar on Wednesday handed in their complaints against these schools to the district inspector of schools (DIOS).

 The schools in question are The Khaitan School, Sector 40; Sapphire International School, Sector 70; Raghav Global School, Sector 122; DPS Greater Noida; and Modern Public School, Shahberi.
 
 Parents of students of three other schools — DPS 132, Cambridge School, Sector 27, and Somerville School, Sector 22 — have already handed in their complaints to the district administration earlier this year.
 
 However, the DIOS Bheem Singh said on Wednesday that those parents would have to submit their complaints afresh to his office.
 
 The  , B N Singh, told mediapersons on Wednesday that after studying the parents’ complaints and responses from the schools, he would recommend “suitable action under his jurisdiction” against the school concerned if any violation of state government or CBSE norms was found.
 
 When asked if the action would include recommendation of the cancellation of the NOC of the school concerned to the state government, he said, “It will be too early to draw a conclusion about any action. I will work under the mandate I have.”
 
 A delegation of five members of the All   Schools Parents Association (ANSPA) managed to meet Union minister for human resource development Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday evening but termed the meeting “unsatisfactory”. It was a rushed meeting in which the parents submitted their memorandum describing the “extortion by hiking of fees” by schools in NCR. However, the parents, who had been preparing for the meeting for months, said the minister gave no assurance on redressing the problem and only said that they have been taking steps to address the issue.“Possibly owing to lack of time, the minister referred our letter to principal secretary Anil Swarup, secretary, school education and literacy, instructing him to look into the issue. It was a very short meeting and not fruitful,” said a member of the delegation.
