TOKYO: Finance and defence minister   said foreign companies need to be incentivised to set up defence manufacturing bases in India, adding that policies have to be in sync with reality. Companies, he added, will establish manufacturing units only if there is a likelihood that they will get business. 

 The government has liberalised rules as far as investment is concerned and Indian companies, both in the public sector and the private sector, have already started entering into arrangements with international firms to establish manufacturing facilities in India, even “outside FDI limits”. 
 
 “In the context of defence, government is the only buyer and, therefore, people will establish units only if there is a likelihood of them getting business and, therefore, our policies have to be tuned to this reality,” he said in an interview. “Our policies have to be tuned so that we are able to incentivise people (so) that it is worthwhile to set up manufacturing bases in India... Some discussions are on,” he added, without disclosing details. 
 
 His statement assumes significance as defence ministry is set to decide on strategic partners in the private sector for equipment soon. 
 
 Jaitley, who met the Japanese defence minister on Monday, said Tokyo is looking at business-to-business ties and is keen to  . “They would like to be considered both for the purposes of India buying and any possibility of India domestically manufacturing with their technologies,” he said. 
 
 
 
 The government will look at consolidating public sector banks and reduce its stake in them to 52% once non-performing assets (NPAs) decline, Jaitley said. 
 
 “The equity can be brought down (to 52%) only at a time when the values are there. The stress period is hardly the best time to go to the market. So, let us improve their health and then we will do it. Once their health improves, as far as consolidation is concerned, in some cases, we are looking at the matter. I won’t give the details as yet,” he said. 
 
 A new ordinance gives the Reserve Bank of India increased powers to recover bad loans. He said   resolution will take time but the process has to be pushed by the banks. “RBI itself has come out with some guidelines. Some management changes have taken place. Now the next stage is that through the JLF (joint lenders’ forum) mechanism, the resolutions should start and we do expect the banks to cooperate in making the JLF mechanism a success,” he said. 
 
 
 Reiterating that the government is not in favour of taxing farm income, the minister said the   is in distress and it needs to be supported instead of getting further burdened. 
 
 “The (land) holdings are very small in size. The rich farmer is a very rare institution. It is not the norm. It is only a rare exception and, therefore, at a time when you need to support agriculture because of the distress, this is hardly the time to deflect the issue and start taxing agriculture,” the minister said. 
 
 While the Centre has no say in the matter, none of the states would do it either, he said. “In any case, the central government has no power,” he said. “It is the power of state governments and my own view is none of the states is going to do it.” 
 
 
 
 
