BHUBANESWAR: Ten young changemakers from across the state, who through their efforts have demonstrated their commitment towards the  , have been selected for a four-day   conducted by   and  , which started here on Sunday. 

 "Leadership comes from within and not necessarily from persons with high designations. Through this effort to build sanitation leaders in the state, we hope to tap into the potential of active, committed young citizens who will lead social change," said Unicef's Odisha chief Yumi Bae.
 
 According to the 2011 census, only 22 per cent of households in the state had toilets, of which 14.1 per cent were rural and 64.8 per cent were in urban areas. The coverage has increased to 42 per cent in 2016-17, sources said. 
 
 "However, much more effort is required to make the state open-defecation free, including mass awareness, mobilizing champions at every level and community mobilization," Bae said.
 
 The volunteers have been selected from districts like Mayurbhanj, Nabarangpur, Koraput and  . During the four-day workshop, they will be trained in the methods which can bring about behavioural change among communities and help them in adopting new habits. 
 
 "This is not just a workshop but the start of a leadership journey. At the end of the workshop, participants will share their own action plans for leading change in their communities.We will mentor the young champions till the end of the year, to help them lead the change they want to see," said Sujit Mahapatra, secretary of the Bakul Foundation.
 
 Volunteers working on sanitation issue face various hurdles. For instance, ending the practice poses particular challenges as construction of a toilet by itself is not enough to stop open defecation. It requires changing behaviours and community awareness.
 
 Mitu Swain, a volunteer from Kandigaon village in Ganjam district, which has been declared open-defecation free by the state government, said the construction of a toilet is not enough to stop open defecation. "It requires community awareness and it is difficult to change old habits of people. However, it's not impossible. We could make it possible in our village by taking both soft and hard stands like creating awareness as well as imposing fines on defaulters," said Swain.
 
 
