HYDERABAD: With retrenchments and lay-offs expected to continue, 2017 may not be a glorious year for those working in the Indian IT industry. Techies in Hyderabad are predictably worried about reports of massive lay-offs happening across the industry -the latest being rumours of IT solutions provider Cognizant letting as many as 6,000 employees go. Several IT professionals have already started hunting for job options, in other sectors.

 “The appraisal season is here and for the past two years here and for the past two years or so, layoffs have been happening across IT firms in Hyderabad. I have noticed that jobs in the IT industry are not secure anymore,“ said Prathibha Tri pathi, a techie, who in spite of a five-year long career in the IT industry , has decided to venture into teaching instead.
 
 While figures indicate that the IT workforce in Hyderabad has seen a year-on-year growth, since 2013, officials of the National association of software and services companies ( ) confirmed that the hiring season, in 2017, will be a `slow' one. According to estimates, the IT resources pool in Hyderabad that stood at 3.4 lakhs in 2013-14, grew to 3.6 lakhs in 2014-15. The number jumped to 4.2 lakhs in the next financial year.
 
 “The hiring season will be a slow one in IT industry , in comparison with the previous year.This is because organizations are now trying to see how they can automate various processes. It is basic coding jobs and other positions in the low-skilled category that will become obsolete with this move. Those employed in the IT industry presently will have to be ready to upskill or re-skill themselves in order to be relevant in a changing industry . If they are not ready to do this, their jobs are at stake,“ said  , regional Head,   ­   and  .
 
 The change in IT firms' `priority areas' is another reason why the hiring prospects will continue to remain `gloomy', said  , an industry expert with over 30 years of experience in the IT sector.“There will be a reduction in the number of hiring rounds, from IT companies in Hyderabad. IT firms are now investing heavily in emerging technologies such as big data and cloud computing. These, while they will do away with many mundane jobs, will create job opportunities for people with a niche skill set.Firms always look to cut costs on training recruits,“ he said.
 
