AHMEDABAD:   is a regular annual event in Gujarat's calendar. Yet Gujaratis always manage to introduce fresh flavours every year to the garba, the grand dance of the festival of nine nights (navratra). This year's freshness comes in the form of a fusion dance given the name 'salsagarba'. Usually performed by couples who dance in a circle, salsa-garba has taken traditional garba to another level of innovation. Further, it has also gone viral on social media as well as garba khelaiyas, so much so that specialized three day workshops and classes were conducted for it in the city and even in other parts of the state.

 Surat-based choreographer, Dhruv Doctor, said enthusiasts seek some innovation in garba every year. “This time I thought of fusing the traditional dodhiyu with salsa and it worked out very well. The move we could come up with has some 33 steps against the popular 22-step dodhiyu," Doctor said.
 
  in the city also hosted a workshop for salsa-garba last week.
 
 The dance form is popular among people of all age groups.
 
 “Garba has always fascinated me and, every year, I ensure that I celebrate all the nine days of Navratri with garba. I was excited when I heard about salsa-garba and instantly enrolled for a workshop along with a friend,“ said  , a 49-year-old resident of Judge's Bungalow road. “It is a little different from the traditional style and couples will genuinely enjoy this variation," Harkhani said.
 
 A host of new styles and steps such as Selfie Garba and   have also gained popularity. Enthusiasts dance these inno vations even to popular international tracks. Such dancing has become a hit in addition to the classical dodhiyu, panchiyu, and dasiyu, (one-and-a-half, five, and ten-step moves) along with popatiyu (reverse sequence) and hinch for youngsters. Dance academies and studios in the city are doing brisk business for the past two months. “Our classes usually begin some two months before Navratri and this time we began in July.So far some 60 people have joined and we're going to arrange a garba night for them too," said Himani Shah, who manages a dance studio near SP Stadium.
 
