GURGAON: A day after the   refused to revoke its order banning sale of liquor within 500 metres of the national and state highways, the district administration has initiated the process of forming two committees to ensure the implementation of the apex court’s order.

 According to the district administration and   officials on Saturday, the committees are being formed under the chairmanship of deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh and will have representatives from the National Highways Authority of India, MCG, Gurgaon Police and excise department, apart from the sub-divisional magistrates.
 
 Singh said, “We were briefed by the chief secretary (revenue) after the December 15 order to form committees for implementation of the order. The process, which had been put on hold, has been re-initiated on Saturday,” Singh said. He said that given the huge distance to be covered by the exercise, the city has been divided into two parts, on both sides of the highway and there will be two committees under the two SDMs.
 
 “The sub-divisional magistrates will take stock of the situation and then report to me on the ground status,” Singh said, adding that according to s per his orders, the process should be kicked off on Saturday itself.
 
 The committees will take charge of measurement of the distance of the outlets from the highways and later list all the relevant outlets. The listing has not been finalised so far, officials said.
 
 According to officials, no list has been finalised so far. “Our teams are on the field but it is also the responsibility of the outlet owners to follow the court’s order and not operate starting from Saturday, April 1,” an official said. 
 
 Both the committees will be given adequate police force for the enforcement of the court order. Meanwhile, the outlet owners are still awaiting more clarity from the government on the execution and as of Saturday all the outlets including those in Cyberhub,  , Sohna Road and Ambience mall were open and functioning.
 
 On their part, outlet owners said they were waiting for the excise department to start the measurement process. “We are waiting for the excise department to act first and begin measuring distances so that we can have further clarity on the impact of the order. As of now, it’s mere speculation and we cannot comment on the business and job loss,” said Rahul Singh, owner The Beer café chain.
 
