PATNA: State water resources department has asked National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) to pay for repair of damages in Ganga pump canal at Bateshwarsthan in Bhagalpur. The canal had breached a day before its inauguration by CM Nitish Kumar on September 20.   State water resources minister Rajiv Ranjan Singh on Tuesday said a third party inspection by three departments of the state government – road constriction, rural works and minor water resources – has established technical faults in an underpass constructed by NTPC, which led to breach in the canal. Singh did not rule out the possibility of government initiating legal action against the NTPC.    “Senior officials of our department and NTPC conducted a joint inspection of the site a day after the breach occurred. Though NTPC officials admitted faults in the underpass constructed by them during the inspection, they later refused to sign on the inspection report, following which a third party inspection was initiated. The third party inspection conducted by the road construction, minor irrigation and rural works departments on September 25 also found several technical faults in the underpass, which led to the breach during trial run of the project,’ Singh said told mediapersons here on Tuesday.    Singh also furnished the report of the third party inspection of the canal, which stated that a 4-inch bitumen layer over the top layer of underpass was missing. The layer could have prevented leakage. Similarly, a six-inch RCC wall with the top slab of the underpass was also missing, which could have provided stability to the structure. Also, seepage was seen through the ceiling and vertical walls of the underpass even during the inspection when the canal was closed.    “The damaged stretch of the canal has been sealed and restoration work is underway. The expenses will be recovered from NTPC. We intend to inaugurate the canal project after a month,” Singh said.    WRD officials said the project is a “lift irrigation project”, under which water from the Ganga is proposed to be brought to the canal using motor pumps. The water would then be released into the canal for irrigational purposes in Bhagalpur and adjoining Godda district of Jharkhand.    Slamming RJD chief Lalu Prasad who had alleged scam in execution of the project, Singh said majority part of the construction of the canal was undertaken between 1990-92 when Lalu was CM. “The scheme was approved by the Centre in 1977 and the canal was constructed between 1985 and 1992. The pump, on the other hand, was proposed to be developed between 2016 and 2018. Moreover, Rs 297.76 crore out of the total sanctioned project cost of Rs 389 crore was spent prior to March 2016,” Singh said.    Meanwhile, a team of senior NTPC engineers from New Delhi will visit Kahalgaon on Wednesday to assess the situation in the wake of the state government shifting the blame for canal breach on the corporation. “The underpass construction was taken up as per the design approved by water resources department with provisions of ring wall and retaining wall. The seepage at the underpass had occurred during rainy season in the past also and the state government was well aware of it. The allegations made against NTPC are baseless and far from reality,” a senior NTPC official said.