JODHPUR: Two former executive engineers of   ( ) along with the proprietor of a construction company were arrested by the   ( ) on Saturday for violation of the original administrative and financial sanction of a civil work.

 The arrested accused include former executive engineers (JDA) Mohan Lal Sharma and Himmat Singh Gehlot and proprietor of   Kamlesh Gehlot.
 
 SP (ACB) Ajay Pal Lamba said that the three accused along with former JDA chairman, former commissioner, some engineers and accounts officials are accused of tampering with the original tender conditions by shifting the work from the approved site to another one and inappropriately increasing the financial sanction. 
 
 Even the agreement drawn between JDA and the contractor company for the original work was found to be suspicious.
 
 In May last year, ACB had registered a case against the then JDA chairman, commissioner, some engineers and some accounts officers of JDA for shifting a civil work worth Rs 45 lakh from a shelter-home for elders to a funeral ground without any requisition of this change, demand of work or following any administrative procedure.
 
 “This was despite a civil work worth Rs 93 lakh was in progress at the funeral ground. Not only this, the original financial sanction of Rs 45 lakh for this switched work was also increased to Rs 1.19 crore inappropriately and illegally,” Lamba said.
 
 The ACB also found in its investigation that illegal sanctions were given through illegal documentation on many stages by the incompetent officials beyond their jurisdiction for the sake of extending undue advantage to their near and dear ones in this case. 
 
 With these three arrests, ACB has tightened the noose around all the accused including chairman Rajendra Singh Solanki, a confidant of the ex-chief minister Ashok Gehlot and a mining baron, who is out of ACB’s claws yet.
 
 “Despite repeated reminders and notices, Solanki has not turned up for interrogation and has not been cooperating in the investigation,” Lamba said, adding that more arrests would follow as the search for other accused was on.
 
 
