PHAGWARA: In her first election rally in Punjab, BSP supremo   alleged that BJP and RSS were aiming to end reservation while pretending that they were calling only for its review. She also targeted the  , along with BJP, for not properly implementing reservation in promotions during their tenures.

 Addressing a rally at Phagwara in Doaba region on Monday, the former UP CM also raised the issue of drugs in Punjab. She said that if BSP came to power in Punjab, the drug mafia would be thrown into jail. She also tried to sell achievements of her government in the past in UP and said that in Punjab also, her party would work on similar lines.
 
 Though it was in 1997 when BSP sent a last MLA to the state assembly, Mayawati told her supporters that the party would form the government in the state this time. The claim is consistent with her earlier statements, though several prominent BSP leaders have parted ways with the party after her decision to go solo in Punjab instead of forming a pre-poll alliance.
 
 On the issue of quota, she said several big government projects were being outsourced to private companies where people were being employed without caring for reservation and this was also harming the interests of the scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward classes (OBCs). She told the audience that the Congress or BJP-SAD should not be voted for at all as they were conspiring to end reservation.
 
 The BSP chief also said all the major projects and works of the private sector were being extended to the ‘dhanna seth’ (rich) due to which the poor, minorities and Dalits were suffering. She also attacked BJP for demonetisation saying that the move wrecked the economy and harmed not only the poor but middle class also.
 
 She said that BJP leaders were informed in advance about the demonetisation and they managed their unaccounted money.
 
 Except BSP state in charge  , all other party candidates were seated on a separate stage and Mayawati did not meet them. Like her past rallies before the elections, the turnout was good and enthusiastic. Yet some BSP workers present said that an alliance would have brightened the prospects of the party candidates several times. “As this time contests is multi-cornered, at the seats where we are strong we have chances of victory,” said a BSP leader.
 
