PUNE: The progressive move of allotting 50% of the seats in the   to women has made little progress towards empowering them. 

 A few sitting women corporators have “decided” to make way for their husbands or other male members of the family, while other women candidates are being fielded as proxies for their male relatives. 
 
 “We will see mothers or wives contesting (next month’s elections), rather than active party workers,” feels former mayor and five-time Congress corporator  , who will be running for her sixth term as a corporator next month.
 
 While political parties are yet to declare the list of their candidates, male relatives of the sitting women corporators have started campaigning in their respective areas. 
 
 A female candidate, who did not want to be named and will not be contesting these elections, said it was the party’s decision that her husband — a former corporator — would contest the elections. Even though the party has decided to field someone else in her place, she remains hopeful of getting a chance before the filing of nominations, beginning next week.
 
 As a result, many women corporators making a mark for themselves in the past five years, are having to make way for their husbands or male relatives. In other seats, male candidates are insisting that their wives be given nominations instead of more deserving candidates active in the area. 
 
 This was nothing new, said former mayor and sitting Nationalist Congress Party corporator Rajlakshmi Bhosale. “I have had to contest from three different areas because of reservations and party decisions. I have seen many sitting women corporators making way for their family members as per the party’s wishes,” she said.
 
 Some of the blame for this, she said, had to be directed towards the voters’ perception that “a male candidate gets more work done.”
 
 Vyavhare said she was the victim of such discrimination in 2014 when, despite being a senior party leader, she was overlooked for the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections. “The party gave opportunities to much younger male candidates. This was a clear case of injustice,” she told TOI. 
 
 This trend was corroborated by a recent study conducted by the Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics, wherein women confessed that they contested elections only because the seats were reserved. “The implication is that women candidates mostly enter politics to contest a reserved seat, while it is the male (family) member who takes the actual decisions,” said Manasi Phadke, who headed the study.
 
