RANCHI: The Ranchi Municipal Corporation’s (RMC) effort to drive people who urinate in the open to  , has got stuck in a mesh of government formalities. 

 The   had taken up the project of constructing 80 public toilets last year to dissuade citizens from urinating in public. RMC inaugurated the project this year and despite half the number of toilets already constructed, the civic bosy is still waiting for a private party to make them operational.
 
 As a result, citizens continue to urinate in the open. A tour of the city on Monday presented a clear picture of the situation. The toilet at Albert Ekka Chowk was bolted while the 200 litre overhead tanks of the toilet in   were damaged. The toilet at Harmu Road was littered and had no water supply.
 
 The toilet which costs Rs 1.5 lakh each, are supposed to be maintained by private companies. The maintenance will include manning and cleaning the toilets, refilling the overhead tanks and supply disinfectants and soaps for the users. 
 
 RMC invited fresh applicants in January this year after the first tender for running and maintaining the toilets failed in December last year. Though the second tender fetched interested companies, the civic body’s procurement committee chaired by mayor Asha Lakra, is yet to meet and finalize the work order rates. 
 
 “The procurement committee will fix the rates. The file has been moved to the committee which is yet to meet,” an officer in the RMC said. 
 
 “We have made few toilets operational on our own. But we need hired hands to ensure operation and maintenance of so many tanks,” said Prashant Kumar, RMC chief executive officer.
 
 While Lakra remained unavailable for comment, a senior officer in RMC said the functioning of the toilets had taken a back seat as the civic body started focusing on clearing encroachments in various parts of the city. “We had enforcement officers who caught and fined people urinating in the open. But that took a backs eat due to anti-encroachment drive. So we do not have much to do as far as   is concerned,” the officer said. 
 
 The reluctance towards public hygiene comes at a time when Ranchi, ranked 62nd in last year’s  , intends to improve its image as one of the cleaner cities in India.
 
