LUCKNOW: Former minister and senior   on Saturday called upon   to unite or they would be reduced to the status of refugee   in their own country. He also made a passionate appeal to leaders who had abandoned the   and joined other political outfits, to return to the party fold.

 The party’s Muslim face, known for making headlines with his controversial comments, said Muslims had contributed to the freedom struggle like any other Indian but today, the time had come when the community woke up to routine insults and discrimination every morning and went to bed fearing what would happen next. 
 
 “We will go by history that is factual and not by what the RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) wants us to believe as history,” Azam said, adding that everybody must unite to take on “fascist” forces. 
 
 “Sab ek ho jao... kaheen aane wala kal tumhare liye Rohingya Musalmano jaisa na ho (we all must unite before we are reduced to the status of Rohingya Muslims),” Azam said.
 
 Referring to the claim of the Aditya Nath Yogi-led BJP government in UP that not a single riot had taken place under the present regime, Azam said he was not surprised. 
 
 “It is you who trigger riots wherever and whenever you want to...Right from the mass massacre in Gujarat to the communal riots in Muzaffarnagar,” Azam said.
 
 He added that beggars today no longer seek alms in the name of Allah for fear of being lynched, suggesting that there was a growing mob mentality where people were singled out on the basis of religion, and killed. 
 
 “The time has come when you (BJP) should sit and talk about the situation, if not with us (Muslims) then at least with Akhilesh Yadav and find a solution to this problem,” he said, adding: “If the secular fabric of our country is facing any threat because of us, then tell us what we should do to improve the situation.”
 
 Pledging his loyalties towards Akhilesh Yadav, Azam—he is a founder member of SP—said if he had begun his journey in the party with Mulayam, he would end it beside Akhilesh. 
 
 “Now that my son is by your side, let me assure you that this association will continue for generations to come,” Azam said, referring to his son Abdullah, an SP MLA. 
 
 When the family feud within the Yadav clan was at its peak, Azam had maintained equal distance from both Mulayam and Akhilesh and even tried broker a truce between the two, but in vain.
 
 
