"It is official. Mr Nihalani put the final nail in my coffin,” that is how Malayalam film Ka Bodyscapes’ director   put it, after his film was refused a certificate by the Second Revising Committee of the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC). This refusal comes just a week after Alankrita Shrivastava’s Lipstick Under My Burkha being denied a certification. Jayan, who had moved the Kerala High Court after his film was refused by the First Revising Committee, said, “Mr Nihalani dragged me to the CBFC and asked me to screen the film on February 17. Later, he denied certifying the film on the grounds of explicit homosexual content, glorifying sexuality and paintings that show vital body parts of a human being. I am surprised that they have not even considered giving an Adult 
certificate to the film.”
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The letter that was sent to Cherian, said, ‘The second Revising Committee unanimously recommended ‘Refusal’ of certificate of the film. They felt that the film is glorifying the subject of gay and homosexual relationship, nudity, accentuating vital parts of male body (in paintings) in closed shots in the whole movie. The film is explicit of scene offending human sensibilities depicting vulgarity and obscenity through the movie.’
 
  and CBFC have been embroiled in an ugly spat since last year. In July, 2016, Cherian was refused a certification by A Prathibha, regional officer of the CBFC in Thiruvananthapuram, on grounds of highly-objectionable content. He later moved the Kerala High Court, which ordered the CBFC to revert to his film within 90 days. Cherian added, “Mr Nihalani told me that the film has been denigrating female characters. I have portrayed a real life incident where a girl in Kerala had put up a picture of her bloodied sanitary napkin on Facebook. The board did not like it and accused me of objectifying female characters. They also have a problem with me showing a penis.” An irked Jayan added, “They can certify misogynistic films which are being produced in the film industry every day. But the moment we try to portray reality, which also includes homosexuality and female desires, they are averse.”
 
 
 The axe has fallen on Cherian also because of “reference to Hindu gods. “I had also suggested blurring the scenes where a male body part is being shown. However, the board clearly refused to even look into it. They feel that I have accentuated a female or male body part. This comes at a time when item numbers are a part of mainstream cinema.”
 
 
 While Cherian’s film will not see the light of the day in the country, he feels it is a wake-up call for creative minds whose artistic expressions are questioned. “It is unfortunate how there is growing intolerance in the country. The board is trying to mute any dissenting opinion and artists have to pay the price. It is an embarrassing situation that the country is putting us into,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Veteran filmmaker Shyam Benegal, who approached the   of I&B after CBFC refused to certify Lipstick Under My Burkha, still has to hear from them. While he has been conveyed that they Ministry will respond to him with a note justifying the delay in feedback for the report, there is nothing concrete yet. “They require a change in the Cinematography Act of 1951. Since there is a legal process, it will take long for them to respond and revise the act. It may take a month or even longer for the executive order to be passed,” he said. Responding to the refusal to certify Ka Bodyscapes by the board, he said, “You cannot question the integrity of the film. One doesn’t know the situation of the report. It is a very confusing time.”
 
  
  
 
 
  Lipstick Under My Burkha was denied a certification last month quoting the plot to be “lady oriented and the presence of contanious sexual content”.
 
 
  Director Anurag Kashyap challenged the suggested 90- plus cuts for Udta Punjab by CBFC, recently. The board, which suggested the cuts, sighting obscenity, was challenged by Kashyap in court, where the ruling was in favour of the latter. The film was later released with one cut.
 
 
  
  
 
 In 2015, Dum Laga Ke Haisha had to face the wrath of the board, after which the word lesbian was muted in the film.
 
 
 Hansal Mehta’s Aligarh trailer received an ‘A’ certificate by the board because of the mention of homosexuality.
 
 
 Pahlaj Nihalani was slammed by Prakash Jha as Jai Gangaajal was denied an ‘U/A’ certificate because of the use of abusive language.
 
 
 The CBFC’s decision to chop off kissing scenes from the Bond film Spectre, made headlines.
 
 
 Baar Baar Dekho, starring Siddharth Malhotra and Katrina Kaif, was asked to delete shots of a bra and references to Savita Bhabhi.
  
 
