From her debut Malayalam serial, Sthree to the current project, Ammunte Amma,   has come a long way in the television industry. From appearing in small character roles to playing protagonists, the Kannadiga actress has shared screen space with iconic actors like Rajinikanth, Mohanlal and Akkineni Nagarjuna, to name a few. We caught up with the actress to know more about her role Padmaja in Ammunte Amma, her acting life and her new interest, direction:

 
 
 I was active in extracurricular activities from my school days. When I was a graduation student, I was part of amateur theatre productions, which my college in Uduppi was always supportive of. Thus I got a chance to perform the lead role, Savithri, in a tele-serial — A Turning Point in Life which was aired on DD Kannada. After that offers from both TV and movies started pouring in. After seeing my photo in the cover page of a Kannada weekly magazine, Sudha, a production controller from Kerala contacted me for the project Perunthachan. When I got to know the film was written by writer M T Vasudevan sir, I said yes as I was aware of the great writer through some of his English translations. Though I had difficulties with the language, it turned out to be a great lesson in acting. Later, I learnt Malayalam and was blessed to be part of Fazil sir’s Manichitrathazhu. The mega serial Sthree and more soaps made me a household name in Kerala.
 
 
 
 
 Manichithrathazhu is evergreen for me as I feel like I acted in it only one or two days back. Even after two decades, people recognise me for the role and Malayali audience rush to me asking Chempankott Sreedevi allae? (laughs). Each and every scene is still fresh in my mind. “Ammavano?Arude ammavan…” the dialogue by Innocent chettan and the portion when he runs when I call “Ammava…” are some of my favourite scenes. Initially, I was very sceptical of my role as it was only a supporting one. I raised my concern to Fazil sir, but he told me to wait and watch the impact of my role. The film gave me much fame and the audience here loves me as a valarthumakal of Malayalam industry.
 
 
 
 
 Ammunte Amma is my next serial after Balamani ended in 2015. My character Padmaja in Ammunte Amma, is a middle-aged mother and the serial conveys the story of human relations and bonding of three generations. Actress Malavika Wales and Baby Keziya play my daughters, Anupama and Ammu.
 Serials make an artiste more popular and a household name as families keep watching us on a daily basis. My role Indu in Sthree and its sequels also kept me close to Malayali hearts. 
 
 
 
 
 Earlier, we used to have healthy conversations on the sets. I still remember the days when KPAC Lalitha chechi, Kalpana, Urvashi, Sukumari chechi and I used to share our experiences, film updates, events and a lot more during the break time. It helped us exchange our views and thoughts with other artistes’ and good friendships were born, which continues till now.
 
 But now I have observed that 50 % of the young actors are so much into their mobile phones in between the shots. When the crew calls them for the respective scenes they will be either talking on phones or will be on social networking. I am not complaining about it. Reserving themselves in their ‘self-zone’ with mobile phones reduce the communication between the artistes with whom they share the screen.
 
 
 
 
 I am debuting as director in Kannada with the film Laxminarayanara Prapanchane Bere scripted by my husband, Jyothi Prakash Atre. I found the subject interesting and so decided to take it up as a challenge.
 
 
 
 
 Currently I have signed up Kamal’s Aami. There are two Kannada projects too. I am also busy with the shooting of Ammunte Amma. I have been approached for playing positive roles till date and I don’t like grey-shaded characters. I can’t think of doing negative roles even if it is for the screen. For an actor it is considered a demerit, but personally I don’t have the mind-set to involve myself with those kind of negative or evil performances.
 
