BENGALURU: The   is set to fix the minimum land requirement for the development of private residential layouts.

 Now on, a minimum of half-acre land is required for layout development. The move could be a telling blow on small land owners, who have been holding on to sizeable plots in prime localities, especially Bengaluru, to develop them into layouts and sites.
 
 The government is expected to bring in an amendment to the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act, 1961, during the budget session of the legislature. “We took this decision in the backdrop of the Karnataka high court giving its nod for the “Akrama Sakrama” scheme in urban centres. The government submitted an affidavit to the high court during the hearing recently , agreeing to take stern measures to ensure there is no further misuse of building plans,'' said urban development department secretary V Ponnuraj.
 
 In the affidavit submitted to the court, Ponnuraj said the government would take measures to plug illegalities.They include disallowing layout development in less than-half-acre land. “In layouts of under half acre, developers leave hardly any space between sites, forcing owners to build houses without setback area. This gives rise to violation of building bylaws,“ said the secretary. Real estate developers also exploit small landowners by randomly entering into agreements with them and developing layouts without adhering to bylaws. Even those who owned large parcels of land would contract their land to developers to earn more money , which often resulted in haphazard growth.
 
 According to real estate developers, as many as 36 sites measuring 1,200sqft (30ft x40ft) can be formed on an acre of land, but some manage to squeeze in 40 sites. Ponnuraj said the government will look to protect small land owners by buying their land for the purpose of development.
 
 Welcoming the move, marketing professional and brand analyst Prashant Sambargi said: “De velopment of a layout with mixed proportion of sites is feasible only on five acres or more. The move to ban development of layout on half acre will definitely check building plan violations."
 
 
 
 
 The state government's decision to prescribe a minimum dimension for layouts could prevent realtors from developing projects that are lacking in basic amenities. However, what remains to be seen is if the government succeeds in stopping builders from violating by-laws. The government's decision appears to be motivated by the idea to prevent builders from developing layouts wherein houses are cheek by jowl, besides protecting small land owners from the real estate lobby. Coming against the backdrop of the high court legitimizing illegal constructions in urban limits ­ the Akrama Sakrama scheme ­ the move could well be seen as an indication of the government's intent to nip violations in the bud.
 
