CHENNAI: After weeks of political turbulence involving the warring factions of the ruling party, the   assembly session is all set to be convened, probably in the first week of June to debate on demands for grants for various departments. The session, which comes after the budget presentation on March 16, is likely to begin on June 7 or 8 and continue for a month. 

 Government sources said chief minister   will hold review meetings with ministers and bureaucrats from Tuesday. He is likely to begin with the industries department as the opposition has been harping on exit of investments from the state. A sizeable number of 98 MoUs signed during the global investors meet is yet to take off. “Clearances from housing department, town and country planning, pollution control board and other service departments are difficult in coming. Unless, the government improves the ease of doing business, the   session will be only going through the motions,” said a senior officer.
 
 The   dispensation will strive hard to rid the perception that there is a complete paralysis of governance. Financial managers, however, point to the severe strain in finances, with a net outstanding debt of Rs 3.14 lakh crore being estimated this fiscal, and have raised doubts over implementing welfare schemes. “The state is unable to make payments to retired and serving transport workers and bought three months’ time to pay a paltry sum,” said a minister, on the sidelines of bus strike last week. 
 
 The state is grappling with the closure of 60% of Tasmac outlets along the highways and the growing resentment and protests against shifting of shops. A high court order against unapproved layouts last year affected real estate activity, one of the prime earners. A strong opposition is set to take on the government on various fronts. 
 
 “No action has been taken against ministers facing corruption charges. Our debates will set the house on fire,” DMK leader   said. He accused the government of failing to address basic needs like drinking water. DMK has strongly objected to the move to prorogue the House last week, since it had grand plans of celebrating party chief M Karunanidhi’s diamond jubilee in assembly and birthday on June 3.
 
