BENGALURU: Recently, Yathiraj Bhat, a techie, got a call from a blood bank seeking platelets. With no second thoughts, the 29-year-old headed to   blood bank. His prompt action saved the life a dengue patient in a private hospital in Jayanagar. That was the first time he donated platelet though he has been a regular blood donor.

 Bhat is one among the many voluntary platelet donors in the city who keep themselves fit to donate platelets to the needy. When the city witnessed nearly 5,000 dengue cases in August, platelet donors turned real saviours.
 
 Sankalp, a network of blood banks in the city, gets 7-8 platelet requests every day in July and August. “We have maintained a network of voluntary platelet donors. They are just a call away when the patients want. Year on year, the awareness on platelets has increased,” says Kumari Ankita, a volunteer. 
 
 “Out of every five patients who were admitted to ICU due to dengue, one needed Single donor Platelet Apheresis or SDP, as the platelet count would cross the danger levels of 10,000 as against 2 lakh and more,” says Dr Chetan Ginigeri, consultant, paediatrics, paediatric intensive care,   CMI Hospital. According to him, nearly 2,000 children with dengue-like illnesses were admitted to the hospital in the past three months. “For every 100 patients who recquire ICU care during dengue treatment, 25 need platelet transfusion,” he said.
 
 SDP is the method through which a patient is supplied with additional platelets from a donor. Through transfusion, the platelets are separated and given to the patient. 
 
 Chandrakanth Acharya, 49, a central government employee from Bengaluru has been a regular donor. From May 2017, he donated platelets 9 times. “I know how difficult it is to get platelets,” he said. 
 
 Another donor said he first heard about platelet donation when his wife had dengue last year. “Her platelets had come down to 24,000. But the doctor said it can be increased in one or two days and they tried to stabilize her condition. She recovered, but the stress I had gone through then made me learn about platelet donation. This year, I donated twice in two months,” said the 36-year-old bank professional from Hebbal.
 
 Dip in dengue cases? 
 
  “There has been a decline of dengue cases by about 5-10 per cent in the last one month,” said Dr B G Prakash Kumar, joint director, national vector-borne disease control, health and family welfare department. The department is yet to further analyse the reasons and the cases reported month wise from all districts. The number of cases in the state on August 21 was 8,977 and on September 21, it was 12, 215.
 
 The severity of cases seems to have come down, said S M Prasad, paediatrician, Dr B R  . “We used to see five out of seven paediatric ICU beds filled with dengue patients. Now there are not more than two patients,” he added.
 
 However, Jyosthna Krishnappa, senior consultant, internal medicine, Apollo Hospital, said the number of pateints visiting the hospital with dengue like symtoms hasn’t come down. “Out of every 10 patients we see in the out-patient department, 6-7 would be suffering with dengue like illness. There hasn’t been any significant change in two months. Over 60 per cent of the fever cases turn out to be dengue,” she added. 
 
 Who can be the donor?
 
 Any healthy person with 60 kg of weight and above 18-60 years are eligible. The donor has to maintain a hemoglobin level of 12.5 g/dl and above and a platelet count of minimum 1.5 lakh. A person can donate 24 times per year and each donation has to have a gap of 15 days. Platelets have no blood group. In SDP, platelets are collected from a single donor.   patients also require platelets. 
 
 
