MUMBAI: The   is not keen on a patch-up with the BJP for the Mumbai mayor's election. Instead, Matoshree is trying to explore new allies, such as the MNS and the Sharad Pawar-led NCP, it is reliably learnt. The BJP too is preparing to throw its hat in the ring in case its reconciliatory attempts vis-a-vis the Sena come to a nought. 

 Observers said the Sena may profit from a triangular contest, with the BJP and the Congress fielding their own nominees for the mayoral election. Mumbai will have a new mayor on March 8. However, chances of large-scale poaching prior to the prestigious election cannot be ruled out, the observers added.
 
 The BJP promptly sent feelers to Geeta Gawli, the Akhil Bharatiya Sena (ABS) corporator, after her talks with the Sena failed on Thursday. Gawli, the daughter of gangster Arun Gawli, is said to have demanded chairmanship of the public health committee in lieu of support to the Sena. The Sena rejected her demand. Within hours, the city BJP rang up the ABS corporator for talks. She is likely to meet CM Devendra Fadnavis on Friday, it is learnt. The CM is personally monitoring the BJP's moves for the mayoral election.
 
 Having bagged 84 seats in the 227-strong civic body as against the BJP's tally of 82, the Sena has since raised its strength to 89 after winning over a handful of Independents and party rebels who have been elected to the house. The Sena will have a smooth sailing if the Congress, Samajwadi Party and NCP decide to abstain from voting, said a BMC official.
 
 The Sena is likely to seek support from the MNS which has seven seats. There are reports that MNS is willing to back the Sena mayor. "Not Balasaheb Thackeray's Marathi manoos agenda, but strident anti-BJPism will bring the Thackeray cousins together," said a Sena veteran.
 
 Sena strategists are of the view that working out a power-sharing formula with the BJP for the next five years is going to be a tough task, given the stormy equations between the two parties after the  . The BJP will likely seek chairmanship of the standing committee for 2.5 years and deputy mayorship for a five-year term.
 
 The Sena is vehemently opposed to the idea as the standing committee controls the BMC's Rs.37,000-crore budget. The BJP has up its sleeve yet another formula whereby the two parties can hold the reins of the standing committee for two stints of 15 months each by turn. 
 
 This too is not acceptable to the Sena, which doesn't want the BJP to go anywhere near the standing panel, sources said.
 
 Matoshree thinks that inking post-poll pact with the BJP is fraught with risk as the latter may create hurdles for the Sena every second day while running the city government. "The BJP will keep playing the villain, raising the issue of transparency in the BMC administration. It is better we keep away from them," said a key Sena strategist.
 
 
