NEW DELHI: With none of the households with toilets or piped-water connections, Inderpuri Gas Godown Jhuggi looks like what it is: one of the city's most neglected settlements, what with its overflowing drains and broken roads giving testimony to years of apathy. 

 A surprise of sorts awaited the near-4,000 residents of this northwest   cluster, when BJP state chief   decided to usher in the new year by spending a night with them. Tiwari proposes to conduct more such "reality checks" ahead of the municipal polls to target CM  . 
 
 As the actor-turned-politician walked through the narrow lanes, he greeted people with a smile, warmly interacted and ate with them. He slept in one of the decrepit houses and used one of the 20 toilets (part of a public toilet complex) without water supply. 
 
 For these people - men and women alike - leaving their homes at the break of dawn with a container in hand in search of a secluded corner to relieve themselves is a practice as old as the 25-year-old settlement itself. Last year, AAP MLA   inaugurated a toilet complex, which, locals claim, has been without water for a month. The entire slum depends on three taps for water - any talk of the mission to make India open-defecation-free by 2019 is hardly music to their ears.
 
 Interestingly, Inderpuri is a part of the high-profile New Delhi constituency represented by BJP's Meenakshi Lekhi. Not surprisingly, when Tiwari tried to strike a chord with the people, toilets - or the lack of them - were the first thing that came up for discussion. 
 
 Manoj Ram's wife was immediately nervous and excited when asked to prepare a cup of tea. When Tiwari noticed that the couple were using a "refrigerator" without a door, he asked his aides to immediately do something for his "sister". An overwhelmed Tiwari told this reporter: "I used to live in a similar house in 1993. These are hardworking people. I will use my personal funds to get them toilets in one month." 
 
 The slum is mostly inhabited by drivers and labourers. Some of them have been residing here for more than two decades. Police accuse them of having encroached upon agricultural land. Different political parties see the area as a vote-bank. "There are two polling booths for this slum," claimed Sanjay Thakur, a BJP functionary. 
 
 In the times of demonetisation, Tiwari had some economics lesson too. Not everyone was pleased, though. "No politician will do us any favour. If we don't get toilets and drains, we won't vote," said Anjan Yadav, an auto driver.
 
  As Tiwari's aides gave a demonstration on how to use e-wallets, people exhorted him to sing instead. The BJP chief immediately obliged. There were others who were excited about his visit. "No leader of his stature has ever come to stay with us," said  , who contract labourer. After dinner, Tiwari spent three hours interacting with people. He went to sleep in one of the houses at 4am and woke up at 7am. He visited more houses in the morning and learnt that the nearby schools didn't have enough teachers and that the public distribution system had collapsed. 
 
 Tiwari left with loads of promises to fulfil: the slumdwellers are used to waiting.
 
 
