Casting can make or break a film or TV shows, and who knows this better than  . After casting big ticket actors in successful shows, including ' ', ' ' and ' ', he is now set his sights to turning director now. Says Gaurav, who recently did the casting for 'Sher-E-Punjab: Maharaja Ranjit Singh', “I was working on a different script in the beginning, but it did not work. It was a short film, which I could not finish due to budget issues. It's now a proper feature film that I plan to take to film festivals.”

 Surprisingly, the casting director did not do the casting for his own debut film. He says, “The producers chose the casting duo   and Romil Modi," reveals Gaurav, adding, "I had collaborated with them for the film titled Newton. It was actually a good decision as this is my debut as a director and there is enough responsibility on me already. I have to collect funds now --- half of it is in place."
 
 As a filmmaker now, Gaurav can see how tough the job is. He explains, "As a casting director, you cast only the actors, but as a director you have to deal with the entire crew. So that was quite a task and there was pressure, too. Still, it's going to be a little easy as the film is around my own subject.”
 
 One of the first step he took on turning a filmmaker was to quit casting, making an exception for friends and old associates. He reveals, “I have not cast for any project since four months as I knew that it will consume a lot of my time and and take away my focus from the script. And I would've found it tough to collect funds with a poor script. That also meant that the monthly income I was getting form casting stopped, but I wanted to take the risk to grow as a creative being.” 
 
 Sustaining himself wasn't a problem for a talented professional like Gaurav, who says, "I have not stopped working completely. I directed two commercials recently. And I had to do them to survive.”
 
 So, would he recommend another aspirant to follow in his footsteps to becoming a filmmaker? “You need to have a good script to become a director. I had that script, but I was not sure if the story was good. So I reached out to many well-known people in the industry. The response was positive. I decided to go ahead with my conviction and script. If   can be a director after working in the production aspect, why can't I be a director after a stint as a casting director? In the end, all you need is a good script, which I have,” he replies.
 
 
  
 
