MUMBAI: There was a lot of hue and cry after the Indian contingent failed to live up to expectations at the Rio Olympics last year. Had it not been for the late charge by shuttler PV Sindhu and wrestler  , the squad, which had returned with a creditable six medals from the London Games, would probably have come back empty-handed.

 Experts called for quick remedial measures so that a similar situation did not arise in Tokyo 2020, but, nearly a year down the line, the system is still battling the inertia that holds Indian sport back, and there is little sense of direction.
 
 "I help myself rather than look for help. So, I am in control of what I can do for myself, and I will speak for myself. My preparations (for Tokyo qualification) are on track," ace shooter   told TOI on Tuesday, when asked about the way things stand as of now.
 
 "I am training in Pune, but we recently had a camp in Slovenia, under multiple Olympic medallist  , and it was satisfactory," added the London Olympics bronze medallist.
 
 Over the past few years, Narang, 34, has worn multiple hats in the range, be it that of a competitor himself, mentor or coach. So how does he manage this, all at the same time?
 
 "There are only 2-3 things around which my life revolves. One is my own shooting, which takes up the majority of the time, say about 80%. Then mentoring takes up about 19% of my time. It's a great stress buster for me.
 
 "It kind of motivates me to see youngsters shoot and in the process, I even end up learning new things. The remaining 1% is taken up by photography which is my passion. Everybody knows that they either find me in the shooting range or they don't find me at all, because I may be away in the jungle," he said, laughing out loud.
 
 Recently, Narang's foundation,   (GNSPF) announced a long-term association with   for its ambitious programme,  , conceived to identify and train young shooting talent in the country. The first leg of the rifle camp, held at Balewadi, Pune, concluded earlier this week.
 
 "We have selected 23 young shooters (aged between 10-20) from different parts of the country out of a total of 57 shortlisted. Comprehensive and scientific selection trials involving physical, meta-cognitive and technical skills were evaluated before twelve kids in rifle and 11in pistol were selected. We intend to hold a total of six camps over the next one year for these shooters," explained Narang.
 
 "What attracted us to the project was the strong scientific processes and implementation plans put together by Gagan and his team and the long-term vision of the project which aligns with the OGQ Junior scholarship programme," Viren Rasquinha, the CEO of OGQ said.
 
 Narang also spoke about the challenges one faces when it comes to training youngsters. "Tapping into youngsters is not a challenge. Sustaining it over a period of time and taking care of the transition is the major challenge," he said. "What happens is if you get things too fast too soon, then it's not going to keep the hunger alive. So you need to give them the right support at the right time.
 
 "If you have observed, not many talented juniors go on to replicate the performance at the senior level. A strong junior programme is only as good as its implementation. Keeping youngsters hungry is the challenge. You need constant overview, probably three times more than what you give to seniors."
 
 
