It was an unusual sight for pedestrians and commuters in   when a group of residents was seen climbing up hoardings and boards, put up at various places in Greater Noida, to remove unauthorized posters from them. Taking their initiative a step further, the group, called the  , jotted down the numbers of the people who had put up these posters and later, inspired by Gandhigiri, went to their offices to give them flowers, urging them not to put them up again. 

  
 
  Harinder Bhati, a member of the Active Citizens Team and a resident of Beta 1, said, "We started this group three years back. The aim of our group is to make Greater Noida a beautiful and safe city. Our group has 150 volunteers who help the authorities in crime and civic issues."
 
  
  The Active Citizen Team removing the posters at  , Greater Noida
 
 
  He added, "We started the poster removal drive three weeks back. We first approached the city magistrate and the district magistrate to take steps to stop people from pasting posters at public places, and to remove the ones that have already been put up. But since they didn't do anything about it, we started removing them ourselves. Also, we give flowers to the people who have put up these posters to make them realize that they are flouting the rules."
 
  
  
 
  Bhati says people often ignore their efforts and put up the posters again, but this doesn’t deter them from cleaning the city. "Sometimes, we remove the posters from a particular place and the next day, we see that the same place is plastered with posters again. It is disappointing, but it doesn’t deter us from our mission to clean the city. We will continue to do this and we hope people will soon stop pasting posters," Bhati said.
 
  
 Alok Singh, a member of the group and a resident of Alpha 1, said, "We are not saying that the authorities aren't doing their job. We understand that they might be busy with other things. As responsible citizens, our duty is to bring this issue to their notice and since they failed to do anything about it, we cleaned it ourselves."
 
 
  
  Members of the group gave flowers to an Aadhar card centre owner who had put up posters promoting the centre at various unauthorized locations in Greater Noida
 
 
  JS Rawat, a senior citizen who is associated with the group, said, "I think our initiative will make the citizens of Greater Noida aware, and we're hoping more people will join our drive. The authorities might not do anything about unauthorized posters, but they can at least cooperate and support us in certain ways."
 
 
 At   and Knowledge Park, the group removed posters of a coaching centre that provides training for the IAS exam. They removed all the posters, and then went to the coaching centre and gave the person a bouquet after mildly berating him. Alok Yadav, the manager of the centre, said, "We have just started our coaching centre, and the cheapest way to advertise is by pasting posters, which is why we do so. I know the group is trying to clean the city, but we request them to guide us about what else can we do to promote our institute. I think they should tell us about the areas where we can put up posters so that we don't flout the rules."
 
  
 RRP Singh, senior manager, urban department, Greater Noida Authority, said, "The authority is also removing the posters on their own and as far as the Active Citizens Team is concerned, they are also doing a good job. By next week, notices will be sent to people who have put up advertisements on the walls and have defaced them. Work is in progress regarding this matter."
 
 
