CHENNAI: Although   lost the tag of being an ailment of the rich a decade ago, treatment continues to be geared more towards them than the poor. In an effort to make  ,   will participate in a   to discuss ways to cut  

 The programme, organised by Heart Failure Foundation of India and Apollo Hospitals, will see `heart teams' from across the world congregate.These teams comprise anaesthetists, intensivists, nephrologists, endocrinologists, immunologists and pulmonologists. Dr Sunder T, senior cardiothoracic and heart-lung transplant surgeon at Apollo Hospitals explained the reason for a multi-disciplinary approach to treating patients with heart failure. “A failing heart affects all other organs.Likewise, conditions like blood pressure, diabetes and kidney-related ailments affect the heart. Gone are the days when a single physician sufficed to mend a heart,“ he said. Postsurgery care and rehabilitation, including a proper diet regime, psychological counselling and a constant check on organ functions have also necessitated the need for more hands on board.
 
 This has also resulted in escalated medical bills. Treatment for heart failure, at present, can cost anywhere between `30,000 and `7 lakh. Although the medical expenses here, doctors say , is only one-third of the cost in the US, several poor people are deprived of treatment. Continuous advancements in treatment, surgical devices, drugs and newer cardiac transplantation methods have also resulted in options being more for those who can afford.
 
 Affordable care will be among the main themes at the annual conference on heart failure on February 4 and 5. The conference will bring together doctors from different specialties also including medical professionals like nurses, physiotherapists, nutritionists and transplant coordinators to share their experience and ideas in the field.
 
 Experts estimate the prevalence of heart failure in India to be around 4 to 5 million.According to Chennai corporation, 54% of deaths in the city are due to heart attacks and other cardiac related ailments.
 
 
