NEW DELHI: BJP's parliamentary board will meet on Sunday to select the CM candidates for   and   amid indications that party chief   will exercise oversight over the two state governments.

 The parliamentary board will hold deliberations even as speculation escalates over who might get the nod in UP. Besides state party chief Keshav Maurya, hardliner Gorakpur MP Yogi Adityanath and telecom minister Manoj Sinha, who have been speculated as strong candidates for the coveted job, Union home minister Rajnath Singh is also being discussed as a possibility.
 
 Sources close to Rajnath, however, insisted that he was not keen. Other party sources said no decision had been taken yet to send anyone from the Centre.
 
 There were indications that the 
  has expanded the scope for Prime Minister Modi and Shah to expand the pool to consider candidates capable of accelerating the implementation of development schemes through synergy with the Centre. "BJP's prospects in 2019 will be determined by its success in retaining the bulk of the 73 seats it won in the last Lok Sabha polls. Amitbhai is clear that the new chief minister should be someone who can hit the ground running," said a party source.
 
 For 
  , Satpal Maharaj, Devendra Rawat and Prakash Pant are seen as frontrunners after the defeat of Ajay Bhatt, leader of opposition in the outgoing assembly who was seen as a strong candidate. 
 
 BJP is also keen to form governments in 
  and 
  and the board will have to finalise its choices for the two states if the attempts to 
  succeed.
 
 BJP is in talks with Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and Goa Forward Party and is not averse to sending Manohar Parikkar, who was CM before he was brought to the capital as defence minister, back to Panaji to head the coalition government if potential partners agree.
 
 Keshav Maurya, who started off as a VHP activist and was mentored by legendary leader of the Ayodhya movement Ashok Singhal, became the face of BJP's outreach to non-Yadav backwards after Shah selected him to lead the party.
 
 He is well-regarded by the party president who as the man in charge for the LS campaign in UP had given him the ticket for Phoolpurseat in 2014 despite opposition from senior leaders.
 
 Manoj Sinha, an engineer by training and former president of BHU Students' Union, is liked by both Modi and Shah. Sources said Modi was pleased with the performance of the mild-mannered Sinha, a Bhumihar, as telecom minister. Sinha, who holds dual charge of minister of state for railways, is also popular among party MPs.
 
 Yogi Adityanath, head of Goraksh Peeth of Gorakhpur, is within both Shah and Modi’s zone of consideration because of his commitment to the Hindutva cause. A hardliner who was in huge demand during the campaign because of his aggressive rhetoric, he is the successor of Mahant Avaidyanath, one of the powerful leaders of the Ram Mandir campaign. 
 
 Interestingly, Shah, as a young member of ABVP, was chosen to be the personal aide of Mahant Avaidyanath when he visited Ahmedabad to attend a Dharma Sansad, a congregation of Hindu saints.
 
