NAGPUR: After several hiccups, the Tiger Conservation Plan of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve has been approved by the National Tiger Conservation Authority after pegging carrying capacity of vehicles at 125 a day.

 It would mean fewer vehicles entering Tadoba now. The 125 vehicles allowed will also include four Canters — two each at Kolara and Mohurli gates-- and a mini bus. If   formula of one Canter and bus equals to three Gypsys is considered, then 15 vehicles will be reduced from quota of 125 thus actually only 110 vehicles per day will be allowed.
 
 TOI has copy of   approval letter issued by NTCA on April 3 that asks the park management to strictly follow carrying capacity norm and also asks it to shut monsoon tourism and tourism in village rehabilitated sites.
 
 Wildlife spokesperson and DFO GK Vashishtha confirmed TCP had been approved and carrying capacity has been approved at 125 from all gates.
 
 “As per the TCP, there is no change in existing routes and routes that have been closed will remain as it is. Field director will decide how many vehicles will be allowed from each gate,” he said.
 
 TCP of Tadoba was first written in 2008 but was not approved owing to several changes. A major hurdle was carrying capacity which was never followed by TATR. 
 
 As per latest   reply, TATR’s carrying capacity from six gates in two shifts is 124. This included Mohurli (60), Kolara (32), Navegaon (12), Zari (6), Pangdi (6) and   (8). This did not include four canters and a minibus which should have been as per NTCA.
 
 TOI published several reports exposing how carrying capacity was being violated under the garb of VIP entry. These are top officials, their relatives, resort owners’ guests and businessmen. 
 
 “Despite SC directing tiger reserves to phase out tourism from core areas, there was no restraint in TATR, which exceed its capacity by allowing large number of VIP vehicles. We have asked them to follow SC guidelines,” NTCA officials said.
 
 “When TATR has already started tourism in buffer, which has huge potential, I don’t understand why core area is being overcrowded,” stated RTI activist Avinash Prabhune, who plans to file a contempt petition against Tadoba management for violating SC directions.
 
 Under the garb of providing employment, Tadoba remains open all year, even on Tuesdays, when it used to have a weekly off. Earlier, in June 2015, NTCA had asked Tadoba to keep the parks closed during monsoon, but these orders were never followed.
 
 The state government has now agreed to abide by NTCA and SC guidelines but whether it actually will do so remains to be seen.
 
