COIMBATORE: The   that was to be held in all grandeur at   (CODISSIA) ground on Sunday was sabotaged by protesters, who have been camping at VOC Park for the past six days.

 As scheduled, state rural development minister S P   inaugurated the event, which saw participation of three bullock carts. However, students gathered at the venue and they wanted to stop the event. Hundreds of people gathered there to watch the race also joined the students and staged a sit-in, claiming that the ordinance was just an eyewash.
 
 Radha, a home maker who had come to witness the rekla race, said the ruling party was trying to fool them. “We all hail from families with agricultural background. And we know the types of bulls used for rekla race. These bulls are not even moving. We will protest until a permanent solution is brought about,” she said.
 
 Expressing a similar view, A Kalimuthu Rajan of Rekla club of Tamil Nadu said, “Jallikattu is held by farmers in villages. How can politicians set up stage and organise it for them? This is a gimmick. It is the students who have been protesting for the past one week.”
 
 On Saturday night, it was announced that nearly 100 bullock carts would participate in the race. But, only five carts and 10 bulls were brought to the venue on Sunday. Most of the bullock carts belonged to party cadres, Kalimuthu alleged.
 
 At around 11.20pm, Velumani arrived at the spot and thanked the students for getting the ordinance passed at such a short notice. “In one single day, law ministry, environment ministry and other departments co-ordinated and passed our proposal. Generally, these take months to get passed. If we are victorious and are holding this race now, it is only because of the students and youngsters who protested for Jallikattu,” he said. The minister also thanked chief minister   and party general secretary V K   for their role in getting the ordinance passed. He insisted that this was a permanent solution and the rekla race was held to celebrate the students’ victory.
 
 But 10 minutes after the race begun, protesters gathered at the venue and urged politicians to leave. When police detained two youngsters, who requested to meet the minister, the crowd raised slogans against the government and political parties. The minister and   MLAs tried to pacify them but in vain. With no other choice left, they left the spot. The protesters then marched back to VOC Park.
 
 “We support AIADMK but this event cannot be accepted. This was students’ victory. Politicians should have held talks with them and organised it after a permanent solution was worked out,” Kalimuthu said. A Sivaraj, a photographer, also condemned the bid to hold rekla race. “The government should take steps to amend the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (PCA) Act,” he said.
 
 Gokurajan, a protester, said if a farmer, student or common man was asked to head the event, they would have allowed it. “We are not against rekla race. We want the government to come up with a permanent solution and give credit to the people of Tamil Nadu. They are trying to gain mileage by conducting a name-sake event,” he said.
 
 
