NEW DELHI: On a day when the government took the unusual step to let Major Leetul Gogoi give out his version of the circumstances under which he used a man as a human shield to save 17 people from a stone-pelting mob,   came out strongly in defence of the young army officer. Sources in the government said the decision, arguably the first of its kind, to let Gogoi speak was taken to counter the “vicious spin” by vested interests to cast him as the villain, while portraying the man whom he used as shield as an innocent bystander. 

 “We have found out that the man,  , has been a known National Conference worker. On that day, he cast his vote in favour of NC candidate Farooq Abdullah and then travelled several km to attack, along with others, a booth located in an area where PDP has a strong support base,” said a senior government source as he contradicted the narrative that Dar, a tailor by profession, happened to pass through the area when he was randomly picked up by Major Gogoi who tied him to a jeep to rescue 17 members of a polling party who had faced relentless pelting of stones. 
 
 On Tuesady, Gogoi, who has been awarded a commendation certificate by Army chief General  , called Dar the “ring leader” of the mob who was standing just 30 metres from him when he reached the trouble spot in response to an SOS message from the members of a polling party, who feared for their lives. While the honour for the Major has come under criticism from some opposition parties, BJP welcomed the move. “We must encourage the Army as it tries to defeat the designs of the enemy. Our armed forces are fighting for our safety and they should be encouraged by all means. Opposition parties should show sensitivity and refrain from politicising actions of the Army,” said  , BJP general secretary. 
 
 Party spokesperson Anil   spoke equally strongly. “He deserved it for the out-ofbox and courageous thinking he showed to save innocent persons, many of them locals, from the wrath of stone-pelters. He was dealing with a violent mob who, armed with petrol bombs and big stones, were bent upon harming 17 people. But for his initiative, many lives would have been lost,” said Baluni. Minister of State,   also welcomed the move. “It is a huge vindication for every patriotic Indian and also redemption for all of us at a time when it was being believed that certain perverted apologists were dominating the discourse,” said Singh. As minister in-charge of northeast states, Singh said he had been receiving calls from the home state ( ) of Gogoi that he executed the work heroically.
 
 
