NAGPUR: In the backdrop of half a dozen cases of serious stabbing by an unknown assailant, cops have launched an operation to nab the serial stabber, said State Director General of Police (DGP)   at CP office on Tuesday. Several teams of cops in plain clothes have been deployed across South Nagpur to nab the miscreant, said the DGP while addressing journalists.

 Answering TOI’s query about the steps being taken to restore the confidence of citizen, especially women, who are feeling threatened, CP K  , who too addressed press meet, replied that measures have been taken to alleviate the fear and to ensure security on roads.
 
 “The rumours spreading on WhatsApp swiftly are not in our control, but social media sites and media publications should not hype such messages,” said the DGP. He also said citizens need not take the law in their hands while tackling a goon, in case they grab anyone. “Some special instructions have been given to the search teams, which cannot be revealed at this time,” added Mathur.
 
 Journalists also questioned the top cops about Sharad Shelar, who is currently posted as Addl CP in Thane city, and is not joining ANO as directed after his promotion. “Due to his unavailability till date, an inquiry has been ordered and the related reports have been sent to take legal action against Shelar,” said the DGP.
 
 Mathur also said more transfers are in the offing in April and May. State home department has issued promotional transfers of PI and API level, which would be announced soon.
 
 While reacting to the police-VCA controversy, Mathur said the issue has been referred to the  . Hence, he could not comment on the same as it is a sub-judice matter. 
 
 Mathur also said, “Naxalites cannot stop anyone from voting during elections. Precautionary measures are being taken to curb Naxal activities.” The DGP also reviewed the police preparations for civic elections. In the coming days, meetings would be taken regarding bandobast too, added Mathur.
 
 Crime DCP  , who too was present, said, “In Dabba trading case, Supreme Court has issued notice to seven accused and also given two weeks to explain their say.” Cops, who had filed Special Leave Petition (SLP) in SC against an high court order, are now waiting for SC judgment, he added.
 
 
