NAGPUR: Nearly five years after TOI first exposed the revaluation-retotalling scam in   allegedly involving assistant registrar  , the report regarding her fate was submitted to vice chancellor SP Kane in a sealed envelope last week.

 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who was entrusted with the task of deciding punishment to be meted out to the accused based on a   (DE) report, submitted his recommendations to Kane, after studying the issue for a couple of weeks.
 
 Both top officials confirmed to TOI the development in the case, but refused to divulge any details. The VC informed that though Yeole handed over the document to him, he had granted all powers to the VC to take a decision. “You will come to know about her fate soon. May be even on Thursday, once the document is opened,” he said.
 
 Endorsing him, Yeole said there was nothing to hide and they would take a decision on Handa’s fate soon.
 
 TOI first exposed the scam on July 8, 2012, and noted that over 200 engineering students, including Chunodkar-Handa’s son, were beneficiaries of the scam. The DE was conducted by lawyer Yogesh Dharashivkar, who submitted a report to the VC on June 8, 2015, two-and-a-half-years after the probe started.
 
 However, the VC clarified that they had received only a complaint against her son for fraudulently increasing his marks in revaluation. He informed that NU hadn’t released mark-sheets and degree of her son till date, as they were waiting for the probe to end and action taken against her. The son was, however, allowed to appear in later NU exams as per directives from Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court.
 
 Kane had first lodged the complaint against Handa for the alleged malpractices and even appeared for cross examination before DAC, where he maintained that she was guilty. Handa was suspended on November 30, 2013, after an enquiry by   (DAC) indicted her for committing malpractices in exam work. Sources said though DE report also proved her role beyond confirmation, NU top brass was in no hurry to punish her due to political pressure.
 
 Besides precious time, NU also splurged lakhs on instituting probe panels and even taking legal opinion from advocate general Rohit Deo.
 
 Sources added that if she was indicted and police complaint was lodged, it would open a can of worms involving many other NU officials and college managements.
 
 
