MUMBAI: The Bombay   has granted relief to a man who was accused by his 30-year-old former lover of   when he refused to marry her after she obtained a divorce. Justice Mridula Bhatkar allowed Sangli resident Sandip Patil’s anticipatory   application and ordered that in case of   he should be released on a personal bond of Rs 15,000 and two sureties.

 “The FIR discloses that the complainant was nearly 26 to 27 years old when, as per her statement, the accused asked her to have sexual intercourse,” Justice Bhatkar said. “It appears that she was not only major but was a married lady. She told that she was forced to keep sexual relations with the accused. Considering the FIR, any force or inducement to obtain consent prima facie is not seen. Prima facie no offence of rape is made out.”
 
 The complainant, Seema, said she knew the accused, Sandeep, as he lived in the same neighbourhood and they had a love affair since July 2013. She said that as he was not ready to marry her, she married another man on May 1, 2014. In her complaint she said that Sandeep continued to send her text messages. She said that five days after her wedding, when she came to her parents home, Sandeep took her to a room and forcibly had sexual intercourse with her.
 
 She said that whenever she used to visit her parents Sandeep would threaten her and force her into sex. Seema obtained divorce from her husband in 2016. She claimed that Sandeep then refused to marry her and threatened her against disclosing their relationship.
 
 On December 22, Seema lodged an FIR of rape.
 
 The prosecution said Sandeep’s arrest was necessary as he had raped, threatened and tried to blackmail a woman. Sandeep’s lawyers contended that Seema had lodged a false complaint. They said he had never taken her photographs or tried to blackmail her.
 
 “On perusal of the complaint, it appears that physical relations took place out of love,” the court observed when it earlier granted Sandeep interim protection from arrest.
 
 (Names changed to protect couple’s identity)
 
