NAGPUR: The Nagpur university ( ) is yet to announce the name of candidate selected for the post of research officer under the Dr Ambedkar Chair.

 NU had advertised for the post on May 27, 2016, and conducted interviews of shortlisted candidates on January 11. Over three months on, some aspirants have alleged that the announcement is being deliberately delayed to favour the chair HoD Pradeep Aglave’s candidate. 
 
 Aglave, who is professor in the Ambdekar Thought department, is on lean period to the Ambedkar Chair department. He refused to comment on the issue.
 
 NU registrar Puran Meshram told   that the matter is under consideration as it is a co-terminus post. “Aglave’s lean period extension file was received on Wednesday. His lean period was getting over on April 30. Besides, he is due for retirement in two years.”
 
 “The delay also happened because of model code of conduct due to civic elections. If the appointment order is issued, the selected candidate will face trouble as he may be better placed right now. The research officer will have to resign if the head of the department resigns or retires,” Meshram said.
 
 On May 27, 2016, NU had invited applications for the post of research officer in open category. The advertisement stated that the post was to be filled on regular basis in Dr Ambedkar Chair and that it was sanctioned by Dr Ambedkar Foundation, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, New Delhi.
 
 The desired qualifications for the post was PhD, 55% in Master in Dr Ambedkar Thought and National Eligibility Test among others. The last date for applying was June 27, 2016. The interviews of shortlisted candidates were held on January 16, 2017.
 
 Some candidates recently approached TOI complaining that the announcement was being unnecessarily delayed. 
 
 “They want to appoint a specific candidate who is Aglave’s favourite. The selected candidate is not being given appointment letter because they want six months to pass. After that, the committee that conducted the interview will automatically dissolve. It is a full-time post and there is no question of the research officer getting only a limited service period,” they alleged.
 
 
