The   season has always been profitable for Delhi’s exhibitors, with film buffs lining up to watch the cinematic masterpieces nominated for the Academy Awards. Oscar-nominated films also boost the business of Delhi’s pirated films market. Every year, around December, when the Oscar buzz starts, films vying for nominations end up being leaked online. This spurt in film leaks even has a term – screener season. Screeners are advance copies of movies that are sent to critics and voters of awards shows, and they usually end up being leaked online. This year, however, things have been rather quiet on the screener front. Many of the Oscar-nominated films are not available online and the infamous Hive-CM8, which put out maximum screeners last year, said it would no longer release any films before their theatrical release.

  Since many of these critically acclaimed films are not released in India, the lack of pirated versions online has created a void, and film buffs are now searching for the movies in the local markets. Delhi’s movie piracy hubs – Kamla Nagar, Nehru Place and   – have been flooded with requests for the Oscar movies, but even the vendors here have not been able to get their hands on these films. 
 
  
  
 
  
 Every year around the Oscars, the demand for nominated films shoots up. A seller in   tells us, "Almost every new   film can now be found on the internet and downloaded for free as soon as it’s released. But for   films, one has to be dependent upon torrent sites. The precise figures of downloads will not be available because usually one person downloads the film and others make copies of it. We make a lot of money with it." He added, "Sab humse hi to lekar jate hain. We don’t go to the cinema hall to record a movie and then leak it, we only download and sell it. None of these are copies shot by people who have taken a camcorder into a theater. We only charge Rs 25-50 for Hollywood films while for Bollywood movies, it’s Rs 10-20."
 
  
  
 
  
 But even these pirates are unable to find many of the Oscar-nominated movies online this year and they are wondering why all the films are not leaked yet. They think it's because the alleged owner of KickassTorrents, the world’s largest torrent site, was arrested last year. While the site is up and running again, the arrest has made international pirates cautious. Also, many torrent sites were blocked in India last year.
 
  A seller in Nehru Place said, "A week before Oscar nominations are announced, HD versions are available for download. This happens pretty much every year around this time when screeners are leaked. This is the first time that even weeks after the Oscar nominations have been announced, not all films are available online for download. La La Land and Arrival were already released in Delhi and Lion will be available by end of February, but since it’s in news, many people came to our shop to check its availability. I am still unable to download it due to unknown technical error."
 
  
 The demand for these films gained momentum after the Golden Globes awards. A seller in   told us, "Har din kam se kam 10 log pooch kar jate hain, par film mil nahin rahi hai. Shayad jald hi tak market mein aa jaye. Abhi tak sabse zyada inquiry Lion ke liye hui hai."
 
  Another seller in Palika Bazaar said that pirated films have their own audience, "Last two weeks have been hell. Log baar-baar aakar poochte hai, humein film mil hi nahin rahi hai. We have also asked others. The demand is higher for those films which will not be released. Ab agar film yahan release nahin hogi toh log dekhenge kaise? Lekin jo release ho bhi rahi hai woh bhi lene ke liye log aate hain."
 
 
