KOCHI: Upset over their families’ objection to their  , a couple ended their life reportedly by jumping into the backwaters after tying up their wrists together with a shawl. 

 Fishermen came across their bodies on Sunday morning. The incident, as per a  , was the result of a love affair that was not accepted by the couple’s families. 
 
 The girl, police said, was warned by her family the night before she went missing. “There seems to be no injuries on the bodies as per the inquest report. There is no evidence to suspect another reason, except suicide, as of now. However, we are probing the cause of death and are awaiting the autopsy report,” said a police officer. The deceased have been identified as Sandeep (24), son of Jaya devan of Pallimuku and Nayana (18), daughter of  . Both of them were reported missing since Friday morning. 
 
 The bodies have begun to decompose and seem to have remained in the water for more than a couple of days, said police. 
 
 The youth, who had completed his Plus Two, never had a steady job. Both of them reportedly met during a short-term course they attended. 
 
 The fishermen, who found the bodies, alerted the costal police. A boat crew from the coastal police fished out the bodies and the case was later handed over to   police. 
 
 The bodies were identified after a mobile phone was recovered from the man’s body, said Fort Kochi police. The contact details recovered from the SIM card helped in identifying the man’s family. 
 
 Later on, cops came to know that the duo were reported missing since Friday. Man missing complaints had been logged in the Ernakulam town south and   police stations by the families. 
 
 Hill Palace police had, during the course of their probe into the man missing complaint, found Sandeep’s phone switched off by Friday afternoon. Though they found its location to be in Kochi, police couldn’t find them before they took the extreme step. 
 
 A case of unnatural death has been registered at the Fort Kochi police station. The bodies will be handed over to kin after autopsy.
