CHENNAI: Vishal Parmar, a student of  , pursued an internship with Scorp, a social networking company. “In one month, I learnt many aspects of video marketing and managing people. I am now on my second internship with another organisation,” said Parmar.

 Summer internships, which were earlier restricted to programming and sales, have now diversified into varied roles including design,  ,   and research.
 
 With corporates increasing focus on design and user experience of their website or app, internships in the area of graphic design, UI/UX development are being sought after. Knowledge of Photoshop, illustrator software and a flow of creative juices would land a student a design internship with a stipend that goes up to `20,000.
 
  Coupons and offers platform Nearbuy is looking to hire students in local areas for each of its offices. “It is better to have a student from Chennai to design campaigns for that area as he/she will have a pulse of what people in that area take to,” said Kapil Gera, marketing associate, Nearbuy. These interns come in with a fresh creative inputs, he adds. Those who wish to continue beyond the stipulated 2-3 months are offered virtual internships, where they work from home.
 
 Internshala has witnessed an eight-fold increase in the number of takers for design roles over the past two years. “Engineering students aspiring for a career in design take up such internships, as the academic course does entail such subjects. Students want to build a profile for their dream career as early as in their second year,” said Sarvesh Agrawal, founder, Internshala. The company also has takers from commerce, arts and allied streams take up design internships, even while the course does not attach credits to internships.
 
  For those with an aptitude for research, internships with global institutions and laboratories give them the platform to publish papers, work and deeply study a topic and even grab a seat into the PhD programme. This year, more than 77 students from SASTRA University are pursuing research in 32 institutions like Harvard Medical School, MIT and Georgia Tech. “We offer a separate scheme for fast learners, an accelerated course beginning with the fourth semester to ensure they complete their academics a semester in advance,” said Vaidhya Subramanian, dean, planning and development, SASTRA University. Several students have been selected under bilateral programmes like Khorana Programme in the US and MITACS in Canada. Some of these students are offered admission into the graduate and PhD programme at leading universities.
 
 While newer fields such as design and research are attracting students, app development remains one of the favourites. Rajoshi Ghosh, cofounder of Hasura, is excited about the remote internship plan his firm is going to launch in May. A list of potential app ideas will be shared with students one week ahead, which they have to build using the Hasura platform. After a month, there will be a webinar where technical mentors will answer queries. At the end of two months, there will be an evaluation and best apps will be featured by Hasura. All students who build an app will get a Hasura certificate. “The idea of managing the internship remotely is to reach out to a lot of people. Our IMAD (introduction to modern application development) course with IIT M saw over 57,000 people registering so we know there is substantial interest,” said Ghosh.
 
  Content writing and web development also have their fair share of the internship pie. With Google changing its search results to feature blogs and content marketing sites in the top, digital marketers and startups are gearing up to the change by hiring quality content writers that can connect to general searches users make. On the Lets Intern platform, marketing, content development and HR internships are in demand from Chennai, which ranks 8th in the list of cities offering the most number of internships.
 
 (With inputs from Ranjani Ayyar)
 
