THANE: Around 87 polling stations have been identified as   for the upcoming   (TMC) elections slated next week on Tuesday, February 21. 

 Based on the guidelines of the   commission, a survey was conducted by the returning officers along with the Thane   in the jurisdiction to check the polling booths across the lake city.
 
 After the survey, the police and the civic body have identified 87 polling stations under the zone-1 and zone-5 area of the Thane city police to be sensitive. Also, the police informed during this time, not even a single polling station has been marked as hyper-sensitive or critical. 
 
 “The identified polling stations are likely to be exposed to the malpractices considering the past incidents of law and order incidents reported,” informed a police officer. 
 
 According to the data, Zone-1 comprises of Thane Nagar, Naupada, Kalva, Mumbra, Daighar and Rabodi Police stations with a total of 40 sensitive polling stations, whereas the Zone-5 which comprises of six police stations viz. Srinagar, Vartak Nagar, Kasarwadavali, Kopri, Kapurbavdi, Chitalsar and Wagle Estate police stations has 57 sensitive polling station, informed a senior police officer. 
 
 The officer informed that the sensitive polling stations are drawn on the basis of various parameters like whether it has a history of violation of model code of conduct or a history of law, past records or complaints, clouts of criminal elements and other apprehension of clashes between rival political workers etc.
 
 Based on the history of the polling station, extra police staff will be deployed on the sensitive polling booths which will be a police officer and couple of constables.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Thane police commissioner said, “Elaborate security arrangements have been made at every   and the security has been beefed up at the identified vulnerable polling stations. Citizens should come out for voting without fear.”
 
 The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation which falls under the zone-4 has 30 sensitive polling stations, said the officer. 
 
 The civic authorities with the help of police officials are working towards maintaing law and order situation in city during the forthcoming elections in cityl. 
 
 
