CHANDRAPUR: Railway passengers and officials feel that the quantum leap in cleanliness and sanitation at both Ballarshah and   stations is the outcome of awareness among people after launch of Swatch Bharat Mission. Even as   (ZRUCC) members feel that there are some lapses, passengers appear quite satisfied with the cleanliness at the stations.

  and Chandrapur railway stations are close to the top in the cleanliness chart in Central Railway, Nagpur division. They were ranked 18th and 19th respectively in A-category stations among 332 stations across the country. Their overall ranking stands at 33rd and 38th in the country. Last year, Ballarshah was raked 251 and Chandrapur stood at 260th position in third party audit.
 
 “After Swatch Bharat Mission, people have developed a sense of cleanliness. They avoid throwing rubbish in open and ensure it is thrown in the dustbin,” says passenger Faiyyaz Khan as he ensured his children collected empty snacks packets in a polythene bag and put them into the dustbin while waiting at Chandrapur railway station.
 
 Student Ritika Kalwan, who is settled at Hyderabad, said Chandrapur railway station definitely appears much cleaner than it used to be. “I am a frequent traveller between Hyderabad and Chandrapur. Cleanliness has improved dramatically since some time. The toilets are clean, drinking water stands are cleaner, and of course entire platform and premises appear cleaner,” she said.
 
 Commercial inspector for both the station   informed that they have outsourced the cleanliness contract and officers keep close watch on contract workers. He said there is separate arrangement for disposal of pantry garbage at Ballarpur railway station. The sanitation workers are on duty throughout the day to maintain cleanliness on the platform and premises. People found defecating on the railway tracks or spitting kharra or pan are fined, he said. He also maintained that Swatch Bharat Mission has added to the cleanliness sense of passengers and railway officials have become more vigilant about sanitation.
 
 ZRUCC member Shriniwas Sunchuwar, however, was not impressed by the performance of two stations and complained about both cleanliness and passenger amenities. “Ballarshah junction has heavy passenger load, still there is only one toilet. One can imagine the situation. The sanitation workers are there only between 8am and 8pm, while passengers are present there through the day and night. If officials want to see the real situation, they need to visit the station in the wee hours. The condition of Chandrapur railway station is also not much different,” he charged.
 
 He maintained that cleanliness of railway stations in Telangana is much better than that at Ballarshah and Chandrapur.
 
 
