AHMEDABAD: The   is expected to double over the next two years amid   between the two. The trade is estimated to reach $100 billion by 2018, said Akinwumi Adesina, president,   (AfDB), in Ahmedabad on Saturday.

 "The trade between India and Africa reached $56.9 billion in 2015-16 from $11.7 billion in 2005-06. We expect the bilateral trade to exceed $100 billion by 2018. I think that is being helped with Prime Minister   and his push for  ," said Adesina ahead of AfDB 52nd annual general meeting to be held from May 22 to May 26 at Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar.
 
 Apart from $10 billion line of credit promised by India to accelerate investment in Africa, according to AfDB president, automobile, power, pharmaceuticals and information and communication technology (ICT) sectors will play important role in boosting the trade.
 
 Infrastructure, energy (especially renewable) and services are some of the sectors that Africa is looking to work with India. "The AfDB is investing heavily into infrastructure in Africa to link land locked countries to coastal nations. We are investing in ports and rails, and nobody makes better rails than India," he added. The bank is also infusing $12 billion in the electricity space over the next five years and investments of $34 billion are further likely to be pumped in by 2025-26. "And, we expect to leverage $45-50 billion of investments by private sector" he said.
 
 AfDB has already started a $500 million fund called Facility for Energy Inclusion to provide finances access to small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the off grid renewable energy sector. "That fund will invest anything ranging from $3 million to $30 million in companies taking up renewable energy projects, generally below 30MW of power projects," he added.
 
 Africa also wants to work closely with India in the field of value addition so that the continent does not end up with just exporting raw materials. With Africa's focus on promoting agriculture as business, the bank officials believe that Indian companies in seeds, agriculture technology and food processing can play a big role in Africa.
 
