CHENNAI: In the early 1970s,  , along with his two brothers, would walk 3km to his Tamil medium government school in a village called Mohanur in Namakkal, some 415km west of Chennai. When he drives into Bombay House to occupy the corner office on February 21, it will mark the arrival of a man, who believes in loyalty and hard work.

 Chandra, as he is called by his friends and family, is the youngest of three brothers and has three sisters. “His standout quality is his commitment,” says eldest brother N Srinivasan, group finance director at Murugappa Group. “He will invest commitment and time to achieve anything that he sets out to do.”
 
 TCS was his first employer. “He joined TCS more than 30 years ago (in 1987) in Chennai and lived with me here. He used to be the first to leave home for office, often by 7am, and the last to return, sometimes way past midnight,” says Srinivasan.
 
 The modest lifestyle of the three brothers involved sharing an apartment in Chennai and moving around on a scooter. “While all three of us have been religious, Chandra in particular learned Vedic hymns from a scholar,” recalls the brother.
 
 Corporate achievement, too, runs in the family. Another brother — N Ganapathy Subramaniam, elder to Chandra and younger to Srinivasan — was elevated as the COO of TCS on Thursday, soon after Chandra was named the   chairman. His sisters live in Erode, Bengaluru and Chennai.
 
 Their lawyer father S Natarajan returned to Mohanur to pursue farming. On hearing the news of Chandra’s elevation, his 85-year-old father said: “God has been very kind to us.” Natarajan’s wife Meenakshi, 82, was elated as they watched TV channels beam visuals of their sons, sitting in Seshasayee Boards quarters in Erode in western Tamil Nadu.
 
 Chandra completed his bachelor’s degree in applied sciences from Coimbatore Institute of Technology before doing his masters in computer science at Regional Engineering College, Trichy. He graduated in 1986.
 
 Srinivasan says his brother took up an assignment with TCS as a final year college student. “And TCS became his employer. Chandra was not academically brilliant, but was an above average performer who would put his mind and heart into his duty,” says Srinivasan.
 
 
