The past few days were spent in apprehension by filmmaker  , who received threat and extortion calls from a man late at night on February 26. The caller demanded Rs50 lakh from the filmmaker, and threatened to kill his daughter Alia and wife   if he failed to do so. Initially, Bhatt thought that the call was a prank, but soon got texts from someone who claimed to be a gang leader. "If you fail to do so, I will fire several rounds of bullets into your daughter Alia and wife Soni," he reportedly wrote in the messages. The caller also messaged Bhatt a Lucknow bank account number to deposit the money in.

  Worried about the safety of his family, Bhatt filed a case at the Juhu police station the next day. The case was registered under Section 387 of the IPC, (causing a person to fear death or grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion) and handed over to the anti-extortion cell of the Mumbai Police. Later, the matter was taken up by the Mumbai Crime Branch, who contacted the UP Police to help nab the culprit. 
 
  
   
 
  On Thursday morning, a UP STF team, led by Dr Arvind Chaturvedi, Additional SP, UP STF, nabbed 27-year-old Sandeep Sahu for making the threat call and sending messages to Bhatt. Sahu is a cloth merchant and has a shop in Aminabad, Lucknow. He is also a   aspirant who studied till Class VIII. He was arrested from his residence in Ashiana in Lucknow. 
 
  Upon learning of the caller’s arrest, Bhatt tweeted a message of thanks in praise of the Maharashtra and UP Police. 
 
  
  Soni Razdan 
 
 
 Amit Pathak, SSP, UP STF, who was part of the investigation, informs, "We had been contacted by the Mumbai Crime Branch about this FIR that had been lodged in Juhu police station by filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt against an unknown person who had threatened him through WhatsApp and phone calls. The Crime Branch told us that the caller may have a UP connection and since Mumbai Crime Branch and the UP STF have always been working closely on criminal cases, we immediately started our investigation. In less than a day, we had zeroed in on Sahu and caught him for threatening Mr Bhatt."
 
  According to Pathak, Sahu harboured ambitions to act in movies and TV shows. "Sahu was fascinated by Bollywood and wanted to be an actor. He used to keep visiting Mumbai and the Siddhivinayak temple there. In fact, he lived in Mumbai from October to December last year. During that time he met a few struggling actors and TV actors. He had tried getting in touch with a few directors but wasn't successful. He then got the number of Mr Mahesh Bhatt through one of these actors and made the extortion call. He told us that he was in dire need of money and that’s why he resorted to this as he thought Mr Bhatt might give in to his demands."
 
 
