Vadodara: A unique mobile application that will prepare hospitals handling disasters was launched in the city on Sunday. 

 The mobile application – ‘Hospital safety’ - for preparation of hospital disaster management plan was launched at the valedictory function of the four-day intensive modular training programme on ‘Hospital preparedness for emergencies (HOPE)’ organised by the Vadodara chapter of the Indian Medical Association in collaboration with the Asian Disaster Preparedness Centre, Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management and the Institution for Disaster, Emergency and Accidents (IDEA). 
 
 This first-of-its-kind application has been developed jointly by the disaster cell of the Indian Medical Association and IDEA. 
 
 “The important structural and non-structural components of hospital which keep them working during disasters have been taken into account for developing plan. With the help of this application, hospitals can prepare their disaster management plan and analyses the gaps to work upon,” said Neelay Shrivastava, director of IDEA, an organisation that works as consultant to WHO for doing hazard risk and vulnerability analysis for 11 South East Asian countries. 
 
 “The application explains various building block of hospital safety like triage, fire safety, chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive (CBRNE) preparedness, mock drills and how to avoid operational failures be it human or mechanical,” he said. 
 
 “The initiative can make a difference in making hospitals resilient and solve their purpose of providing aid without fail,” he said. 
 
 According to experts, lifeline buildings are increasingly becoming vulnerable. In recent times, 18 people died in Chennai during floods due to power failure. Similarly, a fire killed 22 people in a hospital in Bhubaneswar.
 
 “Our country has witnessed several incidents ranging from AMRI hospital fire, the 26/ 11 attacks on Kama hospital at Mumbai while the civil hospital in Ahmedabad had become victim of serial blasts. Hence, we need to boast up our preparedness,” he added. 
 
 HOPE, which is a regional programme standardized for Asian countries, was organised in the country after a gap of ten years with the aim to train to prepare the medical professions and hospitals to be ready to deal with any kind of natural and human-induced disaster. The facilitators for this programme included those from Philippines, Nepal and Thailand.
 
 “A total of 29 participants were meticulously selected from Gujarat for this training programme,” said Dr Paresh Majmudar.
 
 
