NEW DELHI: This is not the first time that the fate of a bout involving   has been decided by a head-butt. Thapa, seeded fourth, had battled into the lightweight (60kg) category's gold medal round in the   in Tashkent but second seed and local favourite   was the one who came out victorious. The bout came to an abrupt end when the referee called time with 20 seconds left on the clock as a head-butt from Abduraimov resulted in a cut above Thapa's right eye.

 "It was all going well till that incident. My opponent just moved in suddenly and his head caught me on the face which resulted in the cut. There was so little time left on the clock that the referee had no choice but to end the bout. I definitely had a good chance to win the gold," Shiva told TOI from Tashkent on Saturday.
 
 It was in the final 20 seconds of the opening round when Shiva sustained the cut, forcing a stoppage by the referee. This is not the first time that Thapa has been at the receiving end of a head-butt, having sustained a similar blow in the quarterfinals of the national championship in Guwahati last year. For Shiva, the silver was his third successive medal at the continental event after a gold in 2013 and a bronze in the 2015 edition. The 23-year-old has made a move up from the bantamweight (56) category into lightweight this year and this medal is his first at the international level in this category after early losses in Bulgaria and Thailand events.
 
 "I achieved both the targets that I had for myself from the Asian championships. It was a big decision for me to move up in the weight category and this medal has come at the right time. I am looking forward to competing in more serious international events to gain exposure before the World Championships in Germany," the Guwahati-born pugilist said.
 
 Joining Shiva with the silver medal in Tashkent was   in the 91kg heavyweight category. It was Sangwan's first medal in the international arena. He lost his final bout to Kazakhstan's top-seeded  . "It was a really close fight and my opponent was an experienced boxer. He is the Rio Olympic Games silver medallist. But I am pleased to have booked my ticket to the World Championships from here and win my first-ever international medal," the 24-year-old from Karnal said. 
 
