AHMEDABAD: The number of farmers in   by 15% from 2001 to 2016, but the numbers of large and medium farmers fell by 24% and 10% respectively. The number of marginal and small farmers — having land holdings of less than two hectares — increased by around 40% and 13%, respectively, in the same period.

 Data published in the   for 2016 shows that there are 48.88 lakh farmers in Gujarat. Of these, 11.55% were large and medium farmers, with holdings larger than two hectares. This figure was 16% according to the 2001 census.
 
  A senior official, on condition of anonymity, said that many large and small farmers sell off their land and move to cities. 
 
 They retain only small land parcels back in their villages, to keep their farmer status. This is a visible trend among large farmers on the outskirts of expanding urban areas.
 
 The   agriculture minister,  , said, “The land holdings of farmers remains the same but the number of small and marginalized farmers is going up due to fragmentation of families – from joint families to nuclear families.”
 
 R L Siyal, an agriculture economist, said, “Farmer families fragment due to various reasons. In many cases the families move out of villages to get their children married.
 
 Siyal said, “It is seen that girls who work in the fields want to leave their villages. 
 
 Even if their villages have all the facilities, the girls want to escape the drudgery of labouring on farms and prefer marrying a small shop owner in an urban area rather than staying in the village.”
 
 Secondly, Siyal said, the number of farmers is expected to decline as more agricultural land is diverted for industrial use and developmental projects. After selling their land, farmers settle in cities and find it difficult to reinvest in land, as prices go beyond their reach by the time they think of returning to agriculture.
 
 An agriculture officer said that if one looks at the area under cultivation from the government’s own data, the figure for cultivated land in Gujarat is now 86.80 lakh hectares, which was 98.98 lakh hectares earlier. 
 This shows a 13% decrease in cultivated agricultural land.
 
 Officials further said that between the 2005-06 and 2010-11 agriculture censuses, the number of marginalized farmers increased by 14.55%, while that of medium farmers fell by 11.95%. The number of large farmers declined by 28.05%. 
 
 The next agriculture census was done in 2015-16 and the report is expected to be published soon.
 
