By 
 

 For 36-year-old Sadhan Radhakrishnan, an employee of an e-commerce company in the city, gardening is a hobby. But what he does with his plants is different from what other gardeners do. He uses waste material like plastic bottles, coconut shells and thermocol used in packaging electronic products, as pots. The bottles are cut into half and the plants are planted in them.
 
 His idea is to build a   along the road that would not only put waste into good use, but also decorate the roadside trees.
 
 Sadhan has been doing this for two years, planting up to 250 such plants.
 
 “I usually pick these waste bottles and coconut shells from the road. I always wanted to do something creative out of the waste; hence I decided to use them for gardening,” he says.
 
 With an ironical shortage of space in ‘Garden City’ Bengaluru, bottles serve as perfect alternative as Sadhan hangs them on tree trunks and branches, bringing the concept of vertical gardening to life.
 
 “If one is short on space, the best option is vertical gardening,” he says. Herbs, ornamental plants and flowering plants are all present in his vertical garden along the road.
 
 “I have planted many kinds of plants that include Sadabahar, Button Lilies, Jasmines and Bougainvillea, and they are either inside a bottle or a coconut shell,” he says.
 
 After six-seven months of growing inside plastic bottles and coconut shells the plants are transferred to either pots or directly into the ground, while new saplings replace the old plants in those bottles.
 
 The plants undergo a process of soil change wherein a bottle with a plant is put in a bucket full of water and once the mud becomes clayey, cow dung and urea are added to it for the plant to become healthier.
 
 A concern remained, however: Will the plastics have any adverse effect on the plants?
 
 “I showed my garden to one of the environmentalists, and he was happy with the idea of plastic bottles. That ruled out any possibilities of ill effects on the plants,” Sadhan says.
 
 But while the idea seemed fine for normal herbs, flowering plants, when put inside plastic bottles, yielded flowers of much reduced size than normal. “If we put a ibiscus plant inside a one-litre bottle, the size of the flower will be smaller than what it generally should be,” Sadhan says.
 
 But that may not come in the way of the concept of vertical gardening coming alive to set a trend for a cramped Bengaluru to reclaim its fading sobriquet ‘Garden City’.
 
