Panaji: The state police complaint authority ( ) has ordered compensation to one Maria Zita D’Sa and her sister of Rs 20,000 and Rs 5,000, respectively, for failure on the part of assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Yeshwant Gawas to register an FIR upon their complaint, despite the alleged offence falling into a cognizable offence category.

 The SPCA chairman, justice R M S Khandeparkar, also set a timeframe of three months to compensate them by recovering the money from Gawas’ salary, but in a legally permissible manner. As per the order, Gawas will have to bear a reduction in time-scale of his pay by one stage for a period of one year effective from the date of imposition of the penalty. Also his increment will be stopped during this period.
 
 “We direct the DGP to submit us a compliance report within 15 days after the action is taken as recommended above,” SPCA observed.
 
 The complainant, on May 20, 2013, alleged that a person trespassed into her property and cut a guava tree. On being questioned, he used abusive words and flung the sickle used for cutting the tree at her. The complainant along with her sister filed a complaint at the Mapusa police station. The duo was sent for a medical check-up and subsequently, a non-cognizable offence was registered.
 
 Thereafter, on May 28, 2013, the accused damaged the soak pit drainage and iron fencing of the complainant’s property. She filed another complaint at the police station. As there was no action, she approached the Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC), who ordered registration of an attempt to murder case along with other IPC sections.
 
 In his reply, Gawas said he had registered the complaint as non-cognizable on the basis of complainant’s statement, which was later read out to them. He also said that based on the JMFC’s direction, an attempt to murder case was also registered and a chargesheet had been filed.
 
 After hearing both the parties, Khandeparkar observed that it was not only the failure on the part of Gawas to register an FIR that resulted in harassment to the complainant and her sister, but also failure to conduct a proper investigation.
 
 
