VIJAYAWADA:  , who has been released by the   after 2-3 days of interrogation, continues to plead innocence in the   and their seven-year-old son Anish Sai.

 Narrating his version, Rao said that everything was fine till last Thursday morning (March 23) after he dropped his son at the school at around 8 am. Later, he dropped Sasikala at her office at 9.15 am. After attending an office party, he returned home in Maple Shade township, New Jersey, late at 9 pm and called out for his son.
 
 When he did not get any response, he assumed that Anish must be playing with his iPad while his mother worked on her computer. When he entered the bedroom, he was shocked to see them lying in a pool of blood. Overcome by shock, he rushed out of his house and called for 911.
 
 His neighbour noticed him and helped converse with officials. Within minutes, cops arrived while he made calls to   and  ,  , his office colleagues, his wife's cousins living in the US and his parents and in-laws.
 
 Later, cops confiscated his phone and took him to the hospital where the autopsy was done. “I am unable to believe this has happened at my place and I am still in complete disbelief,“ Hanumantha Rao told TOI. When asked if he suspected anyone, he claimed, “I or my family don't have any enemies. We mind our own business.“
 
 When asked about the allegations made by his in-laws and his illicit affair with Deepa Ajit, he said: “Nothing to comment about it. I love my wife and son more than anyone can think and people who are close to me know this very well.“
 
 Meanwhile, Rao also spoke to Sasikala's maternal spoke to Sasikala's maternal uncle Kolli Prabhakar. When Prabhakar asked himwhy his parents did not contact Sasikala's kin till date, Rao said that they are “unwell“ and were too shocked on the incident and in no position to speak to anyone.
 
 Sasikala (38) worked in Cognizant Technology Solutions (CTS) and Sasikala's parents allege that Rao must have killed them as he has been harrasing their daughter for the past few years and even had an illicit affair with his colleague Deepa Ajit since 2012.
 
