Panaji: The swaying coconut palms that aptly characterize Goa do more than just add to the state’s beauty. They are, in fact, a vital part of Goanness, Goemkarponn and, most importantly, Goan cuisine. The coconut, be it freshly grated or dessicated or in its milk form, is a vital ingredient of numerous Goan dishes, both traditional and modern, as is the coconut toddy and the feni. Another important ingredient, especially to   cuisine is the coconut jaggery.
 
  Made from the sap of the coconut palm, this jaggery, also called madachem godd locally, is easily identified from its shape and colour. Ladies selling basketsful of the pyramid shaped (which is what it derives yet another name, pyramid jaggery) deep brown, verging on black jaggery are a common sight in every market. The pyramids are usually available in two size, the regular large size and a smaller size.
  
  Coconut jaggery is an essential ingredient for most Goan Catholic sweets such as dodol, pinagr, patoleo and alle-belle. Food blogger Sapna Sardessai says that though this jaggery, like the toddy vinegar, is not used in typical Hindu preparations, she, herself, likes it and uses it in preparations like patoleao and coconut-filled neuro. “Coconut jaggery is definitely tastier than the sugarcane one that is used abundantly is Hindu cuisine,” she says.
  
  While its use in sweet dishes is well-known and documented, this jaggery does not find much favour in savoury cooking. When asked about this, food researcher and writer   da   cites just one savoury dish in which the coconut jaggery is used, the samarachi koddi. “This curry is a blend of coconut milk, chillies and numerous spices. Aside from enhancing the taste, the addition of coconut jaggery helps balance the spice level of the curry,” she says.
  
  On the nutrient front, coconut jaggery boasts of numerous health benefits. “Being a rich source of magnesium and iron, and high in anti-oxidant properties, makes this jaggery a more nutritious alternative to the sugarcane jaggery and a healthier option as compared to refined white sugar,” says nutritionist and dietician  . Apart from the array of traditional Goan sweets, can this jaggery be used as a sweetening agent for beverages like tea and coffee? “Most definitely,”   says, though cautioning about the aftertaste. “Since we are accustomed to using sugar to sweeten our tea or coffee, initially one may find that jaggery-sweetened tea or coffee has a strange aftertaste. But once the habit forms, this will not be an issue.   patients too can consume this jaggery, provided they do so in a small, regulated quanity,” she says.
