KOCHI: The number of people who went to hospitals with acute   touched 92 on Monday alone in the district. 

 According to data with district medical office (DMO), on an average 60 people went to hospitals daily with complaint of acute diarrhoea in the district this month.
 
 This is probably the first sign of things to come in the next few days. 
 
 With unexpected heavy rains on Sunday, health authorities fear an   of waterborne diseases and leptospirosis in the city. 
 
 The DMO has already issued an alert and officials will be approaching schools and small eateries to create awareness on how to avoid contaminated food. Any person with fever will be tested first for water-borne diseases.
 
 From January to September 18, 2017, the district has seen 1,70,635 cases of fever. In September, there were 7,842 fever cases. So far, there have been 70 confirmed cases of leptospirosis, with maximum cases confirmed in May this year (17). There has been 95 confirmed cases of   with maximum being reported in May. So far no typhoid case has been reported in the district. 
 
 As many as 25,691 cases of acute diarrhoea has been reported in the district, with maximum cases being reported in July (4,403). Till September 18, 1,048 cases of acute diarrhoea was reported. All the hospitals have been asked to immediately inform the DMO if they come across any case of waterborne diseases. Any unusual reporting or outbreak need to be immediately reported by even private hospitals, the official added. 
 
 “We expect increase in complaints of viral fever and waterborne diseases in the coming days. So it has been decided that anyone who comes with fever will be investigated first for waterborne diseases,” said Ernakulum   RMO Dr Cyriac P J. 
 
 Meanwhile, private hospitals are already taking steps to handle any such cases. They are also asking patients and relatives visiting hospitals to take necessary care.
 
 “People should only drink boiled water, wash their feet properly and if they have fever, they should immediately consult a doctor,” said Dr Sachidananda Kamath, former president, Indian Academy of Paediatrics.
 
 Health authorities fear that if people in waterlogged areas don’t take precaution, then it may become a breeding ground for mosquitoes leading to outbreak of malaria and dengue.
 
 
