BENGALURU: Taking stock of policing in 2016, chief minister   on Monday emphasized the need to beef up night patrolling in residential localities. He was addressing the annual gathering of senior IPS officers at the DG-IGP’s office.

 “Happy that you have arrested six persons? But I would have been happier if your department could have avoided such incidents by increasing night patrolling,” he told senior police officers, after listening to the details of the  , where a woman was attacked by six men when she was returning home after ushering in the New Year.
 
 Siddaramaiah had earlier asked senior police officers to brief him on the   incident and the probe progress. “You knew it was a night of revelry and there should have been adequate police deployment till the wee hours,” he said.
 
 Further, Siddaramaiah directed the superintendents of police and their deputies to be alert about incidents of groups clashing over political issues. He was citing the Maddur incident where two workers of a political party were brutally hacked to death after a group clash. “Whenever such incidents takes place, precautionary measures like preventive arrests and issuing of Section 144 should be implemented,” he said. “Had they (local police) reacted promptly and deployed more personnel after the clash, the murders could have been prevented,” he added.
 
 Saying CID police are the state’s pride, the CM said: “The government has encouraged CID, its cyber crime cell in particular, by providing them an advanced cyber lab and sleuths should make the best use of it,” he said.
 
 Siddaramaiah launched an updated version of ‘POLICE IT’, a software connecting police officials across the state, and said cops should be public-friendly. “Due to the wide reach of electronic and social media, news on crimes is selling like hotcakes. Police should make sure the   is under control,” he said.
 
 Recalling the recent   molestation case where a man and his sister-in-law concocted a story for personal motives, the CM quipped: “Police have to deal with such things.” 
 
 No evidence of New Year incidents: Cops
 
 Siddaramaiah sought details about the multiple incidents of alleged molestation on MG Road and Brigade Road during New Year Eve celebrations. “Nijaana?” (Is it true?) he asked the senior police officers.
 
 The officers replied, saying they haven’t come across any evidence and no one had come forward to file a complaint of molestation. 
 
 
