LUCKNOW: Hours after Prime Minister  's jibe at the incomplete Metro rail project in Lucknow, ruling  's national president   turned the tables on the BJP led NDA government at the Centre holding it responsible for the delay.

 Modi took a dig at the 'Kaam Bolta Hai' campaign slogan of Akhilesh blaming him for inaugurating projects and leaving them incomplete while showcasing them as major achievements. “I am going to Lucknow. I invite Akhilesh Yadav for a ride on board Lucknow Metro. Let's see if it runs,“ said the PM, addressing a rally in Lakhimpur on Monday.
 
 Later in the evening, Akhi lesh got back at Modi accusing railway ministry for not releasing the no-objection certificate (NOC) for commercial cooperation of the Metro train in Lucknow. “People are saying that no one can enjoy a ride in metro train. But they should know that the railway ministry--which comes under Central government--has not given NOC to operate the train commercially,“ he said, addressing a public meeting in Lucknow. “If they give me the NOC tomorrow, the train will start operating the next day,“ he said.
 
 Akhilesh had inaugurated Lucknow Metro with much fanfare ahead of the Assembly elections recently. Modi said to take all credit for the metro project, Akhilesh didn't invite any Central leader, though the project had received funds from the Centre. Trashing Akhilesh's development claims, Modi said the SP government had inaugurated Medanta Hospital in Lucknow but the unit was far from operational. He asked Akhilesh to accompany him to the hospital and get their individual blood pressure checked. “Even that is not possible because the so called hospital has neither equipment nor doctors,“ Modi said.
 
 In response, Akhilesh said Modi wants a blood pressure check because he knows his party is losing badly in the first phase of polls held on February 11. “By the time a few more phases of elections are over, more BJP leaders will have to get their BP checked,“ he said. Akhilesh also targeted the BJP for making hue and cry over law and order in UP. “They always talk of law and order in UP but what they don't talk about is that despite being in government at the center, they have done nothing to assist the state government to improve the police machinery in the state,“ he said, adding that as UP CM, he launched Dial 100 po lice assistance which is showing results and promised to strengthen it further if voted to power.
 
 Addressing a public meeting at Tedhi Pulia near Ring Road in Jankipuram, Akhilesh asked people to support Congress candidate Anurag Bhadauria from Lucknow East and SP's sitting MLA from city North, Abhishek Misra.
 
