BENGALURU: A multicultural and peaceful atmosphere, wide range of courses and good job opportunities sums up why   flock to Bengaluru colleges for higher studies.

 Over 5,000 students from various countries study in the city’s different colleges and universities, making Bengaluru one of the most preferred cities to study in along with Hyderabad and Pune.
 
 Bengaluru’s climate, long considered a major pull for these foreign students, is not the only reason for them to come here to pursue graduate and postgraduate courses, besides doctorates. After management courses, students are more driven to opt for computer application courses in the Silicon City of India. Homely atmosphere and a healthy understanding between management and students are why some colleges are preferred over others.
 
 Mela James Lagos, general secretary of the Federation of International Students’ Association, Bengaluru (FISAB) said that colleges which have a mutual understanding with international students tend to attract more of them every year.
 
 “When colleges understand we have come from abroad and have no idea about the Indian education system, they go out of their way to make us feel comfortable. We share our experiences with friends back home who also aspire to come to Bengaluru and join colleges they have good feedback about,” said James.
 
 “We do take time to acclimatize to the rules and regulations here, but the reason some of the colleges are successful in attracting more foreign students is because they ease us into the process,” he added.
 
 The Acharya Group of Institutions has over 900 foreign students from 60 countries including Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, besides from the various African nations.
 
 “Most of these students pursue   and BBM, while some pursue BCA as Bengaluru is the country’s IT hub. Engineering and pharmacy come next while a good number of students also apply to visual arts programmes and law courses,” said an official from the institution’s international students’ cell.
 
 Kylie Achebe, a student from Zimbabwe at Acharya Institute of Management Studies, said, “The education system back home is good but it doesn’t give you enough exposure. Pursuing BCA in Bengaluru is a huge advantage.”
 
 “Besides, the college atmosphere is diverse and homely. Before coming here, I spoke to my friends back home who did their bachelors from here. They had given me a good feedback,” said another student.
 
 Established in 1993 by Majed AA Sabha, an Indian citizen born in Palestine who did engineering from Bengaluru, Brindavan College has over 300 foreign students on its rolls, constituting 60% of all its students. Foreign students here are from a host of countries including Angola, Bahrain, Gambia, Germany, Namibia, and Mongolia.
 
 “A global standard security system is in place on our campus which has hostel facilities for both male and female students,” said Naema Sultana, principal, Brindavan College.
 
 “To help students coming from non-english speaking countries, we conduct a three-month English language coaching before their respective courses begin,” Naema added.
 
 Institutions help them with accommodation, resident’s permit
 
 Christ University, which has over 600 students from 59 countries, has a specialized admission process in place for foreign students. Of these, 20% are pursuing different postgraduate programmes the university offers.
 
 “Karnataka accounts for at least one-third of India’s foreign students. Students are drawn to Bengaluru in particular as the city is the nation’s IT hub,” said Prof J W Lobo, director of international students’ office,  .
 
 “We have an active international students’ office. We help them obtain residents’ permits from the Foreigners’ Regional Registration Office (FRRO) and in other formalities as well. Through a comprehensive orientation process, we make them aware and help them adjust to the university norms regarding discipline and academics,” Lobo added.
 
 Regina Victoria, a second year student from Germany, said, “One of the primary reasons I decided to join Christ University was the feedback I received regarding students’ welfare on the campus. In a new country, I wouldn’t want to be lost between finding my way and taking care of academics.”
 
 Gangadharan Chandragiri, deputy director (international students relations),  , said that foreign students taking admission in the college are helped right from their pick-ups from the airport, in purchasing a local SIM card, opening bank account or searching for an accommodation in case they don’t want to stay on the campus.
 
 “We help them organize their cultural festivals, encourage them to participate in international events organized by government and private agencies. Those who seek, we provide them with hostel facilities of international standards, and as far as possible provide them food of their choice and bridge courses for various subjects and languages if they need,” he added.
 
 
