MYSURU: In an   of the   on Wednesday, members, including deans, raised objections against   director S Srikanta Swamy for not taking them and   into confidence the during   affiliated to the varsity. 

  After an assurance from Dayanand Mane, vice-chancellor (incharge), that it would not recur, Srikanta Swamy briefed the council about renewing affiliation of colleges for academic year 2017-18 and it permitted affiliation of 224 colleges, including 33 BEd colleges. 
 
  During Srikanta Swamy's briefing, Aisha M Sheriff, dean, Commerce and Management, UOM and Ningamma C Betsur, dean, department of education, Manasa Gangothri brought to the notice of council members that the committee during the renewal process had bypassed them. Mane, on behalf of CDC and the varsity, apologized both deans and assured them that such mistakes would not happen again. 
 
 The members renewed affiliation for 224 colleges which includes 179 degree colleges (nine colleges were approved subject to fulfillment of conditions), 33 BEd colleges and three new degree Om Srinikethana Trust at Srirangapatna, Malenadu Thanthrika Shikshana Samithi in Vidyanagar at Hassan and Sha Knowledge Foundation at Nazarbad in Mysuru which will be starting BCom and BBM courses from this academic year. Apart from this, affiliation to 102 colleges to conduct various post-graduation courses were also renewed. The council also gave its nod for SBRR Mahajana College to start MSc in Botany, Teresian College to start MSc in Psychology, Sharadavilas College in Mysuru and Government Arts College in Hassan to start MCom while granted permission to Government First Grade College in Holenarasipura to start PG courses in M Com, MA in Women Studies and Master in Library Science.
 
 Of the seven colleges which declined permission for additional intake in PG courses, six were government colleges, including Maharanis Science College which had requested increase in intake for MSc Botany and Physics from existing 21 to 26 and from 24 to 34 seats respectively. The committee cited lack of facilities. 
 
  The varsity sanctioned Rs 50,000 for Lingaraja Gandhi, director planning, monitoring and evaluation board and nodal officer for ranking and his team members involved in providing details to officials concerned which got UOM 36th rank in the national survey conducted by National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). Dayanand Mane also mentioned that the five-member University Review Commission committee led by former vice-chancellor NR Shetty will be in Mysuru on May 26 and 27 to review the varsity's performance in the past five years. The committee will hand over the reports to the governor. 
 
 The University of Mysore on Wednesday decided to enroll only those students who have passed SLET, NET or who have a PhD as guest faculty in the affiliated colleges. The council took a decision that those with just a Master's degree are not eligible for teaching. 
 
 
