CHENNAI: Reliance Industries (RIL), which posted biggest single day gain since May 19, 2009, propelled equity benchmarks to fresh five-month highs on Wednesday ahead of expiry of February derivative contracts on Thursday. The stock contributed 216 points to the gain in Sensex, which ended the day increasing 103.1 points or 0.36% higher to close at 28864.7 points.

 Market experts attributed the jump to the ‘Jio effect’—Reliance chairman Mukesh Ambani, who has called it the world’s largest start-up, announced on Tuesday that the company’s telecom venture has crossed 100 million subscribers in less than six months since its launch. Significantly, the company said that it would start charging users for data from April 1. The RIL scrip has gained 18.4% since Jio was launched on September 5.
 
 The market capitalisation (M-Cap) of RIL rose by Rs. 38729 crore during the day. Interestingly, the gain in M-Cap for RIL at its 52-week high price almost equaled the entire M-Cap of Idea Cellular, the third largest telecom operator in the country by subscribers in the country. The Reliance scrip, which touched a 52-week high of Rs. 1212, surged about 11% to close at Rs. 1207.65 on the BSE. The scrip soared nearly 11.2% to end the day at Rs. 1209.8 on the NSE.
 
 Jio’s free offers has taken the telecom market by storm pushing rivals to come up with cheaper plans. The move has also prompted Vodafone India, the second largest operator by subscribers and Idea Cellular, to explore a merger. The merged entity would become the largest operator by subscribers displacing Bharti Airtel from the top slot.
 
 “There was no clarity on pricing and tariff (for Jio) earlier. As a result, analysts were unable to project revenue and profit performance for Jio,” says Deven R Choksey, managing director (MD), KR Choksey Shares and Securities. The tariff plans announced now have the potential to generate revenues of nearly Rs. 60000 crore per year for Jio, he says.
 
 “The revenue model is now very clear for Jio,” says Kishor P Ostwal, MD, CNI Research, an equities research provider. But RIL will have to raise more money as it has already strained its balance sheet with huge investments in Jio, he says. “They would require a lot of money,” Ostwal says.
 
 RIL has invested about Rs. 1.5 lakh crore in Jio and Ambani has said that the company would invest a total of Rs. 2.5 lakh crore in the digital space. Though Jio has expanded at a furious pace, market experts say that the telecom venture would take some time to deliver returns. “Cash payback will take three years,” Choksey says.
 
 The RIL counter witnessed brisk activity during Wednesday’s trading. There was a jump in trades executed with 33.31 lakh shares of the company changing hands on the BSE against the two-week average of 2.18 lakh shares.
 
 
