HYDERABAD: It's not always that  , especially when it comes to driving. In a surprising revelation, it turns out that   account for  ,  , cars, autos and two-wheelers.

 A recent study by State Road Safety Authority and Transport Department revealed as many as 43 people died for every 100 accidents involving tractors compared to 42 fatalities involving trucks. On an average, 43 people died for every 100 accidents when tractors were involved during the last three years on roads in Telangana.
 
 In comparison, severity rate (deaths per100 accidents) was 30 when two-wheelers (bikes) were involved in accidents, 30 casualties in case of buses, 26 in case of cars and other light motor vehicles and 24 in case of autos.
 
 Traffic and transport safety experts said high death rate in tractor-accidents is because tractors are not designed to carry passengers and even a small jerk causes head injuries.
 
 “Farmers carry passengers in trailers attached to tractors in violation of rules. Trailers designed to carry agricultural produce. Passengers do not have seating facility nor grip even in a minor accident. Agricultural labourers, construction workers and families going to marriage parties are transported dangerously in these trailers,“ said Indian Federation of Road Safety Chief Functionary , Vinod Kumar Kanumala.
 
 Also, another major reason for tractors turning into killer vehicles is their slow movement and poor visibility .“As tractors work in agricultural fields, radium-strapped reflectors and tail lights and indicators get covered with dust and mud and are not visible from a distance for motorists coming at a high speed,“ said Vinod Kumar Kanumala.
 
 Engineering Staff College of India former director-gener al S Nagabhushan Rao blamed high tractor-related road fatalities on lack of enforcement by transport officials to book cases against farmers who transport passengers in trailers, lack of special training to drive tractors before issuing driving licence. Currently , heavy vehicle driving licence is sufficient to drive a tractor, which is inadequate, he said.
 
 Joint Transport Commissioner T Raghunath said lack of staff leads to inefficient enforcement. “There are no service roads and tractors take to the highways, be it state or a national highway , to go back to their village from the field. Often, they go on the wrong side too.Our officers cannot be there at every village to check these violations,“ he said.
 
