PUNE: A tunnel proposed in the draft budget of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) from   to   in Pashan has sent alarm bells ringing among the residents.
D N Mandalekar, member of the   Utkarsha Seva Sanstha, the resident's association, said, “We are not opposed to the tunnel. We just want it to be rerouted so that it causes minimum damage to the environment and maximum benefit to people.“
 
 Panchavati Society , located opposite  , is an oasis of greenery .Devoid of the cacophony of traffic, the residents here wake up to the cries of peacocks and take a walk in the morning through narrow pathways on hills.
 
 The society is also home to some of the famous scientists in Pune ­ Jayant Narlikar, Madhav Gadgil, Ajit Kembhavi, Vijay Bhatkar, Naresh Dadhich, among others.
 
 The residents had earlier protested against the plan to construct a tunnel, which was supposed to open near the society as they felt the narrow road in front of their society will lead to bottlenecks instead of easing the flow of traffic. But the surfacing of the plan once again in this year's PMC budget has worried them further.
 
 Mandalekar explained that if the tunnel opens at Panchavati, as proposed by PMC, the narrow road connecting the mouth of the tunnel to the main   will not be able to accommodate heavy traffic.Since the road is flanked on one side by the society , the other side will be used for widening.This will mean cutting the hill and destroying all its flora and fauna, which also boasts of a considerable peacock population. The road from the mouth of the tunnel to Pashan Road is not straight, instead it has two sharp turns which again isn't good for fast moving traffic, Mandalekar pointed out.
 
 The residents association had last year proposed that the tunnel be extended further and should open in front of Abhimanshree Society Road, which connects Baner Road on front, Pashan to the left and Universi ty circle to the right.
 
 “It was due to our sustained efforts a perimeter wall was constructed around the hill by PMC to protect the forest. A watchman was hired and water containers were built for watering the plants and trees,“ said  , a retired IAS officer, who is also the chairman of the hill development committee. He further said, “Our demand is simple. If you are studying the feasibility of one tunnel and road, also study the feasibility of the alternative we have suggested. We are sure experts on road and tunnel network as well as environmentalists will find the alternative route less disruptive and much better option for development.“
 
