 isn’t the first India-China military face-off on the unsettled boundary, and is unlikely to be the last. But what’s strikingly different this time is the aggressive Chinese effort to shape the narrative, if not own it — a behaviour way different from the usual strategy of cloaking intent and encouraging speculation.
 
  After all, when was the last time you had the political counsellor of the Chinese embassy in India put out an on-the-record video detailing their perspective on the ground situation in Doklam? Or, for that matter, China being candid enough to confirm that Kailash yatris had been stopped through the Nathu La route as a consequence of this stand-off ?
  
  
 
  This change is instructive because the usual Chinese way would have been to just go quiet and let the Indians figure out for themselves what was on Beijing’s mind when it blocked off two batches of Kailash pilgrims.
  
  A cottage industry of China watchers has flourished in India over many decades, earning their spurs on doing exactly this kind of deciphering and decoding.
  
  But, perhaps, for the first time, we have an in-your-face face-off where the central purpose, at least on the Chinese side, is to both loudly and effectively assert a new position, a new line that emphasises the start of a new normal.
  
  And, admittedly, that’s a response to the way India has also shifted gears, being more vocal with its concerns on Chinese support to  , its rejection of the One Belt, One Road initiative and blocking terror designations at the UN.
  
  So, surely, the new normal has been in the making for a while but the Doklam stand-off provides that definitive Chinese twist, because embedded in this one move are many reversals and achallenge. Let’s consider.
  
  First, it brings to question the validity of understandings reached through the Special Representative mechanism on resolving the boundary issue, set up in 2003 when former Prime Minister   visited China. In 2012, the SRs had agreed that the boundary settlement on Bhutan trijunction would be done through consultation among all three parties.
  
  India now feels that by framing this as an issue between China and Bhutan, where Indian troops have barged in without any locus standi, Beijing has directly questioned the sanctity of the politically mandated high-level SR process.
  
  Second, it raises uncertainty on China’s continuing recognition of Sikkim being part of India, a step again firmed up in Vajpayee’s 2003 visit.
  
  Beijing has created this doubt through its claims that the India-China boundary on the Sikkim section was settled when China recognised Sikkim as part of India. New Delhi says the recognition in no way meant that the state’s boundary with China was settled and that the entire border still remains disputed. Politically, this is a new articulation from China that has created doubts on whether the way is being paved for retracting from the 2003 understanding.
  
  Third, the decision to open Nathu La for Kailash pilgrims was a significant confidence building measure achieved during Chinese President Xi Jinping’s first visit to India after Prime Minister   came to power. In many ways, it symbolises a Modi-Xi friendship moment. But now that stands suspended at Chinese behest. A continuation of this suspension or a formal reversal of the decision may end up conveying a sense of distrust at the leadership level, which will require fresh attention.
  
  
 
  Along with these potential reversals is also a Chinese challenge on India’s special relationship with Bhutan, which includes a historical security understanding that New Delhi is bounden to honour. By raising the sovereignty question here, China has signalled that it wants to change this status quo, especially on the boundary question involving India and Bhutan.
  
  The Doklam situation, in other words, unsettles key fundamentals like the SR mechanism, the status of Sikkim, the Modi-Xi equation and, of course, India’s very special strategic relationship with Bhutan. Which is why the face-off, even if it’s managed now, will still strengthen the flavour of mutual distrust.
  
  In one of his recent meetings with the Chinese president, the PM had told him that both sides should not allow differences to become disputes. Clearly, the gap has still not closed, also because both leaders lead very nationalist polities today. Neither side can afford to appear losing ground, let alone make strategic concessions.
  
  So, retracting from past commitments, or reading different meanings into them, will indeed untie old knots that held many contradictions together. The challenge for New Delhi and Beijing is to examine whether this will allow them to knit a new weave at the earliest, say, a different story, even if less ambitious.   in 1989 got the first joint mechanism on the boundary that went defunct in over a decade.
  
  Then, in 2003, Vajpayee’s visit to China yielded the NSA-level SR-mechanism that is now under some stress.
  
  Is there now a need for fresh political direction, a new concord suited to present times? This question needs examination because what’s important to note is that with the start of a new normal, there also should begin the search for a new equilibrium. Eventually, that’s what distinguishes big, responsible powers from adventurous ones, where realignment of status quo is ultimately the function of politics, not the military.
  
