PUNE: The Pune unit   ( ) of the   (CBI) registered 16 “criminal misconduct” cases last year, the highest since 2010.

 Out of these cases, 11 relate to bank frauds alone, according to the CBI records obtained by TOI.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Superintendent of Police (SP), MR Kadole, CBI, ACB, Pune, said, “In 2016, we registered 16 cases of criminal misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Majority of these cases relate to banks frauds involving bank officials, which is an alarming trend. Investigations into these cases are on.”
 
 The statistics show that the CBI, Pune, branch had lodged 7 cases of criminal misconduct in 2010, nil in 2011, eight in 2012, five in 2013, nine in 2014, seven in 2015 and 16 in 2016.
 
 All central government offices and officers of central public sector enterprises in 10 districts of the state namely, Pune, Ahmednagar, Aurungabad, Jalna, Beed, Solapur, Osmanabad, Satara, Kolhapur and Sangli come under the jurisdiction of CBI, ACB.
 
 A senior CBI officer, who did not wish to be named, told TOI, “While investigating these cases we found that senior bank officials worked in hand-in-glove with the fraudsters, thereby causing loss worth crores of rupees to the respective banks. The officials get a cut in return from the fraudsters.”
 
 According to the investigators, since the senior bank officials are involved in such cases, it is difficult to get a whiff of them unless specific complaints are lodged either from the people or from bank insiders.
 
 The CBI sources said the maximum cases were registered on the allegations of bank fraud, wherein loans against property (LAP) were obtained in the name of fraudulent companies, which do not exist.
 
 Explaining the modus operandi of the cases involving loans against property, a CBI officer, who has investigated such cases, told TOI, “The bank officials would sanction loan against properties without verifying their credentials and values. Thereafter, the private parties would divert the loan for some other purposes. Then the fraudsters would not pay instalments on the loans and the accounts would become NPA (Non Performing Assets). An elaborate process is followed to dupe the banks by mortgaging properties whose values are less than the sanctioned loan amount.”
 
 On July 27 last year, the CBI had registered four separate cases of fraud to the tune of Rs 20 crore for allegedly diverting funds taken from the   (BoM) as loans for other purposes.
 
 “In this case, three businessmen had resorted to a similar trick and duped the bank. They were helped by bank officials and loans were sanctioned to them,” the CBI officer added.
 
 In another case, the CBI sources said that the fraudsters had managed to get home and vehicles loans worth more than Rs 3 crore from a bank by submitting forged documents.
 
 “The fraud came to light only when the instalments on the loans were defaulted. After verification of the submitted documents, the bank came to know that all the documents were forged. The sanctioned loan was actually siphoned off to another account, which was in the name of a person who had no role in it. In this case also, we found involvement of the bank officials,” the CBI sources explained.
 
