New Delhi: The government on Wednesday decided to give preference to domestically-produced iron and   in government purchases in a bid to buoy the industry that had been complaining of pressure from cheap imports from China. The decision came along with the   which seeks to boost demand. 

 The preference for local players comes after similar measures in telecom and solar power, decisions that have faced   scrutiny, and an increasing clamour for protectionism even in developed countries. The government has taken a series of steps to protect local players as China grapples with excess capacity, prompting it to push subsidised steel into markets such as India. 
 
 "Cheap imports" and depressed demand have also impacted the finances of several steel companies, which in turn are finding it difficult to repay loans although banks maintained that several of these   are overly-leveraged.
 
 The government sought to suggest that the purchase preference was part of PM  's 'Make in India' strategy. In fact, a policy is in the works for providing preference in government procurement for several other locally-manufactured goods.
 
 The policy will be applicable on all government tenders where price bids are yet to be opened, impacting several foreign players who are in the fray to bag contracts. It seeks a minimum value addition of 15% in notified steel products which will be covered under preferential procurement with the steel ministry given flexibility in tweaking the norms. 
 
 The government has opted for a system of self-certification by domestic manufacturers, which will have to declare that the iron and steel products are domestically manufactured. "It shall not normally be the responsibility of procuring agency to verify the correctness of the claim. In few cases, the onus of demonstrating the correctness-of the same shall be on the bidder when asked to do so," an official statement said. 
 
 It also talked about provisions for waivers to procurements, where specific grades of steel are not manufactured in the country, or the requirement cannot be met through domestic sources. 
 
 
