CHANDIGARH: Congress registered a decisive win in Punjab in a three-cornered fight on Saturday getting 77 seats even as the   of the party took a downslide as compared to the previous election. Congress has swept the seats across regions with 40 of the total 69 in Malwa, 15 out of 23 in Doaba and 22 out of 25 in Majha.

 “Congress did better than expected in Malwa, while it has virtually swept the Dalit stronghold of Doaba and the border region of Majha. Reasonable performance of SAD-BJP in Malwa ensured that AAP did not sweep the region,” said a Congress leader.
 
 This, despite speculations at one stage that AAP enjoyed more popularity in Malwa region going by the crowds at the public meetings of its star campaigner Bhagwant Mann.
 
 A strong state leadership under Captain Amarinder Singh, who managed to pacify infighting among the party leaders, and less interference of the high command, contrary to the practice in the past, also worked for Congress.
 
 Congress pulled off a surprise even though it garnered just 38.4% votes this time, which is over 2% less than the 40.90% it got in 2012. Even the party’s own leaders were expecting to get around 65 seats.
 
 However, in the previous election, the party had managed to win only 46 seats even though its vote share had gone up from 40.11% in 2007. Despite registering an increase in its vote share, Congress had failed to get majority due to the damage caused by People’s Party of Punjab (PPP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in 2012. Ironically, though they spoilt Congress’s fortunes, the two parties failed to win any seats themselves.
 
 “The Congress campaign was meticulously planned around party president Captain Amarinder Singh and in the last leg, the party tried hard to consolidate its presence in the Malwa region. Doaba and Majha had been its strength from the start. “Congress has never been short of vote share in any election,” said a party leader.
 
 SAD got 25.2% of votes and AAP managed to convince 23.8% of voters.
 
