The redevelopment that   has undertaken on the   plot where his bungalow stood not so long ago has rattled the residential society next door which has threatened the actor with legal action if he doesn't immediately put a stop to the construction that its residents claim is being carried out illegally.

 In a letter to Kapoor on March 2 which Mirror has accessed,  , located at the swish   in Bandra, has alleged that he took over part of the land registered under the society's name and “fraudulently“ showed himself to be its proprietor -when he is merely a stakeholder -to get official approvals to erect a tower in place of his bungalow.
 
 The society further claims that vibrations resulting from the excavation work are destabilising adjoining buildings, leaving their residents susceptible to collapse and therefore posing a threat to their life and property.
 
 A copy of the letter was seen marked to the `Executive Engineer', building proposals department,  .
 
 The letter states that according to a 1980 agreement between Kapoor, wife Neetu, and the promoters of the society, only part of the 5,035 square metre land housing the society building and Kapoor's bungalow was sold to him, but he has taken another portion of the land which the society jointly holds, without informing or consulting its members. The CTS number of the plot under dispute is 1335A, it states.
 
 “You merely hold membership in the society and have no right, or title in the land,“ the letter states, before alleging that Kapoor showed himself to be the owner of the whole property of which his bungalow was only a part. It alleges that “by such misrepresentation“, Kapoor got the civic authorities' nod to proceed with the redevelopment.
 
 The excavators employed for the work are also a source of disturbance to the society members, their letter states. They are concerned that heavy vibrations caused by earthmoving machinery could damage the retaining wall and weaken their building's foundation -laid on a hill -causing the structure to disintegrate. “Any such damage will be at your sole risk as to cost and consequences,“ the letter warns.
 
 It urges Kapoor to cease all activity or face legal action.
 
 When contacted, the actor responded via a message that all the charges levelled in the letter are speculative. “We are aware of a recent builder's interest in Daffodils. These are nothing but conjectures until proven.Lawyers will answer all that society needs,“ he wrote.
 
 An official from the proposals department said the plans were approved by the relevant authorities and the permissions were granted accordingly. “We are yet to receive a copy of the notice,“ he said.
 
 
