Cox’s Bazar in south-east Bangladesh is groaning under the pressure of   refugees, with over 4 lakh crossing over from Myanmar and taking shelter in hundreds of camps that have mushroomed between Shah Porir Dwip and Kutupalang. 

 According to government officials, this is the largest refugee migration since the partition of Bengal in 1947, when 15 lakh Muslims crossed over to East Pakistan from Bengal and Bihar. 
 
 But this isn’t the first time Bangladesh has had to deal with Rohingya refugees. Persecuted by Myanmar’s army, they’ve been arriving in Bangladesh for decades. 
 
 Meet 27-year-old Abdur Rashid, who came from Rakhine state to Bangladesh in 1992 following a spate of violence. He was barely 2 then. Penniless, his parents spent nights in the open before they got accommodated in a camp at Nayapara. 
 
 A quarter of a decade later, he still lives in the camp. The best memories he has of the place is the one when he attended community school. “School was the loveliest place. We got to study till Class V. Then our dreams ended. I wanted to study further, but there was no scope,” he said. 
 
 Rashid tried to get a job but could not due to restrictions imposed by the government. Eventually, he was hired as a United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees volunteer and now receives a stipend of around taka 1,500.
 
 Seeing the sea of refugees that have recently arrived in Bangladesh, Rashid wonders what their fate will be. Some of those who have arrived know it won’t be a bed of roses but they are relieved to have been rid of the crown of thorns. 
 
 Watching the columns of smoke rise across river Naf, Md Siddiqui, in his mid-30s, knows they are from villages that have recently been torched. The sight brings back horrid memories of the final days in Myanmar before he was forced to flee with his wife and children.
 
 “Living in squalid tents on a hillock is not easy. But I would rather die here than walk back to face the torture. We will return only if the Myanmar government treats us like human beings,” Siddiqui said. 
 
 The refugees are currently living on aid provided by the Bangladeshi government and NGOs. But as days roll by and the spotlight shifts to another exigency or calamity, the situation in the camps will become more difficult.
 
 That is what 30-something Md Ali, who migrated in the early 1990s, knows very well. “Once the spotlight shifts and aid dries up, the struggle to survive begins. I was tall and well-built when I arrived, a far cry from the wiry person you see now. I do odd jobs at the camp but it is barely enough for sustenance,” he said.
 
 For the likes of him and Rashid, who migrated here decades ago, the memories of Myanmar are so vague that it now appears like a foreign country. They speak and read the language of the country they’ve found shelter in.
 
 “Till international pressure forces a solution, there is no point in going back to Myanmar. Let them (the Myanmar government) treat Rohingyas as citizens first,” said Rashid. 
 
 But Bangladesh is already feeling the burden of migrants on its soil. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina wants Myanmar to take its people back. Some like Madhuram Pal, though, are unwilling to return even if the Myanmar government commits to their safety. “The sights I witnessed in Maungdaw village will haunt me forever. I don’t want to go back and reopen the wounds afresh,” he said.
 
 
