NEW DELHI: Your monthly home loan instalment or EMI for a new property will come down by around Rs 2,000 if you are buying your first home in a city or town under the PM Awas Yojna (PMAY) and if your annual household income is in the range of Rs 12-18 lakh.

 The government is offering an interest subsidy of 3-4% on borrowings of Rs 9 lakh to Rs 12 lakh even if the overall loan is higher. Loans availed from January are entitled for the subsidy announced by PM   as part of the post-demonetisation package.
 
 On Wednesday, 70 lending institutions including 45  , 15 scheduled banks, regional rural and cooperative banks signed MoUs with   for implementation of the scheme for the middle class in urban areas.
 
 Union housing and urban development minister M   said that middle income groups (MIGs) make substantial contribution to the economic growth of the country besides paying taxes and deserved support to fulfill the dream of owning a house which is a basic and genuine aspiration. He urged banks and other lending institution to adopt pro-active approach to deliver the benefits to people.
 
 The benefit will be extended to families as comprising of wife, husband and unmarried daughters and son. Moreover, unmarried and earning young adults buying their first house will be eligible to avail the benefit.
 
 Though PM Narendra Modi had announced these subsidies on December 31to meet the aspiration of owning a pucca house for the tax paying large middle class, the operational guidelines could not be notified because of election code of conduct. TOI on February 15 had first reported about the interest subsidy scheme kicking off from January 1.
 
 PM had announced interest subsidy of 4% on housing loans of up to Rs 9 lakh of those with annual income of Rs 12 lakh and of 3% on housing loans of up to Rs 12 lakh of those earning Rs 18 lakh per year.
 
 “Those who have been sanctioned housing loans and whose applications are under consideration since January first this year are also eligible for interest subsidy,” a housing ministry spokesperson said.
 
 As per the scheme, the tenure of loan has been stipulated to be 20 years or that preferred by the beneficiary, whichever is lower. The total interest subsidy accruing on these loan amounts will be paid to the beneficiaries upfront in one go thereby reducing the burden of EMI.
 
 Sriram Kalyanaraman, managing director and CEO of National Housing Bank said the interest subsidy of 4% will bring down EMI of beneficiaries by Rs 2,062 per month on a housing loan of Rs 9 lakh and interest subsidy of 3% will bring down EMI by Rs 2,019 on a loan of Rs 12 lakh, considering normal housing loan interest rate as 8.65%.
 
 He added said during 2015-16, against total new bookings of 28.9 lakh units with loans of up to Rs 10 lakhs each, public sector banks and housing finance banks advanced loans of Rs 9.5 lakh crore and accounted for 64% of total bookings.
 
 
