CHANDIGARH: With AAP having named most of its candidates for the upcoming Punjab elections, party supremo   has now taken the reins of the party’s campaign in Punjab. To begin with, he will be looking to mollify disgruntled volunteers. 

 The Delhi CM started his three-day stay in Chandigarh by holding brainstorming sessions with party leaders on Tuesday. Sources said Kejriwal, in his interactions with party leaders, said there wo;ld be no more changes in candidates and party cadres should be asked to sink their differences and contribute to victory of the official nominee. “He told the leaders that if there are any serious complaints pertaining to any criminal cases, corruption or the character of the candidate, the party would rather drop the candidate,” the source said.
 
 Kejriwal indicated that the party was likely to pick its chief ministerial candidate after the election process, contrary to speculations by some party leaders of the state unit that a CM face might be declared at an opportune time before the polls.
 
 AAP has already declared 104 of the total 117 candidates so far. Focus is now on ensuring that the chances of the party are not marred by discontent among party cadres, who may not be happy with the choice of the candidate, source said.
 
 Kejriwal held a meeting with volunteers from Patiala zone. Delegations of traders, NRIs, senior citizens and ex-servicemen from Patiala, Dera Bassi and other adjoining areas met Kejriwal at UT Guest House on Tuesday to discuss issues being faced by them and extend support to the party.
 
 In certain cases, party candidates will also be bringing along groups of volunteers or heads of communities and organisations that are willing to support AAP in case they get a reassurance from the AAP supremo.
 
 After the removal of its former state convener  , party leadership had been looking to consolidate its cadres and bring around fence-sitters. “In some cases, it is a case of satisfying egos of volunteers who only want to have a word with their party leader. The party has now conveyed it firmly to the cadres that there will be no more changes; it is in the interest of the party that everyone works together. Top leadership is willing to give a patient ear to any local problems of the volunteers and most of them are satisfied with the opportunity,” said another leader.
 
