Even though the standoff caught the imagination of generations of filmmakers and writers, the book by former Punjab Chief Min ister Capt   brings to fore the human element of the battle ­ from the heights of courage to bureaucratic blunders.

 The book talks about the little known 22nd man and others and how they held their ground against 8,000 Afridi Pashtun tribals, keeping them away from their communication post.
 
 Sweeper Dad, whose first name is unknown, fought and died with the 21 men of the then 36th Sikh regiment (now 4th) on September 12, 1897 at Saragarhi in the North-West Frontier Province (modern day Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in Pakistan). He died an unknown hero.
 
 Although Amarinder's book is ded icated to Dad, it also gives insights on the British commanders and 54 Sikhs who fought in and around Saragarhi.
 
 Dad, according to Amarinder, could be a Muslim, Hindu or Sikh. Interestingly, his caste and rank denied him the posthumous honour of 2 marabas (50 acres of land) and Rs 500 that year given to the families of the remaining 21 by  .
 
 “The British Parliament gave them a standing ovation. The only one left out was Sepoy Dad because he was a Non-combatant Enrolled (NCE) and was not allowed to use a weapon. He killed five pathans with his rifle or bayonet, but was refused an award a sign of bureaucratic stupidity at its worst.“ writes Amarinder.
 
 “So he died an unknown hero, nameless and with no reward for his gallantry, because of some outdated ridiculous order which prohibited a man of a lower caste or position from being recognised for his bravery,“ he adds.
 
 Saragarhi was actually a communication post built on the edge of a spur on  , which drops sharply into a 3,000-feet deep valley . It was located between   and Fort Gulistan.
 
 The book's research is largely based on gazetteers, extracts from regiment orders, brigade orders of Fort Gulistan commander Major Des Voeuzx and official letters of Colonel Haughton, the commandant of Fort Lockhart.
 
 Haughton's cryptic order, 'hold your position' set the tone for the six hours and 45 minutes the 22 Sikh men struggled against the heavily armed Afridi and Orakzai tribes.
 
 The heroes that day were Ishar Singh and signaler Gurumukh Singh.“At around 8am on the fateful day , the sentry on duty reported that a large lashkar of tribals under around dozen flags was marching towards the fort from the North. However, with thousands of pathans aiming at their loopholes with just 21 rifles, they were soon out-gunned and had to resort to snap shooting to avoid being hit through them.Nevertheless, their training and resilience came to the fore and very soon, the Pathans felt the heat as the Sikh fire continued unabated,“ says the book.
 
 Ishar's platoon was armed with single-shot loading .303 Martini Henry rifles, much lesser in firepower compared to pathans' long-barelled Jezails and Lee Metfords. Ishar inspired the platoon of Sahib Singh, Jiwan Singh and Daya Singh to not leave their loopholed defences. Gurmukh continued to communicate with Lokhart and cleverly went into the rear sleeping quarters to take up position and kill 20 pathans. Naik Lal Singh was seen firing from his sick bed.
 
 Taking out their knives, the pathans mercilessly removed mortar between lower stones from the base of the wall and used the ladder to climb to the wall, leaving no space for the 22 men to hide and fire.
 
 The new Saragarhi account also observes the stagnation of promotion and illiteracy seen in the Army in those days.
 
 “Even after 10 years of service in the 36th, Ishar Singh had been passed over for promotion and would have retired soon, being already 42 years old. While he will always be remembered for his gallant conduct at Saragarhi, within the regiment, they will also rue the loss of their best illicit liquor producer and a man who borrowed meat on hoof for his men when short of ra tion from a neighbouring unit,“ it says.
 
 For Gurmukh, it says, was the only literate soldier who could use his thumb impression. The book also says that all the 22 bodies of Indian soldiers were badly mutilated.
 
 “This was perhaps the Pathan venting frustration.
 
 The pathan sources put their Saragarhi casualty figures at 180-200 dead and around 600 wounded,“ the book says.
 
 Major (Retd) Muhammad Nawaz Khan, who lives in Peshawar, and visited Saragarhi on its 100th anniversary , said the formi dable Fort Lockhart still stands tall today with loose stones and the base wall intact.
 
 There is a memorial with about 21-feet high plaque fixed on one side, which gives details of the Saragarhi action.
 
