VARANASI: The BJP candidate from Mohammadabad in   district,  , slammed BSP chief   for patronizing ‘criminal elements’ like mafia-don-turned-politician  , who is also an accused in the murder of her husband Krishnanand Rai in 2005.

 “Mayawati is again repeating the act of patronizing criminal elements like Ansari. As Mukhtar is aware that he he is going to be convicted in the case, the Ansaris are looking for a safe haven in a political party and have been obliged by the BSP,” Alka said while talking to TOI from Mohammadabad on Saturday.
 
 “As BSP and SP patronized them in the past, they initially merged their Qaumi Ekta Dal (QED) with the SP. But, when their deal with SP fell apart, they took shelter in BSP,” said Alka. “However, I believe that none of these moves of the Ansari family are going to save them in this murder case,” she added.
 
 On January 26, the QED of Ansari brothers had merged with the BSP. After it, Mayawati had announced to field Mukhtar and his son Abbas Ansari from Mau and Ghosi assembly seats respectively in Mau district while don’s elder brother Shibgatullah Ansari was given ticket from Mohammadabad seat in Ghazipur district.
 
 After denying her ticket in 2012 Assembly poll when Virendra Kumar Rai had contested on BJP ticket but lost his deposit, the party has shown faith in Alka this year again. She will pose challenge to sitting MLA and Mukhtar’s elder brother Shibgatullah Ansari, who is all set to contest on a BSP ticket.
 
 Alka claimed, “The Ansaris are frustrated as failure of Mohammadabad’s sitting MLA Shibgatullah in ensuring development of the area has incensed the people.”
 
 Mukhtar’s elder brother and chief of QED Afzal Ansari had maintained monopoly on Mohammadabad seat from 1985 to 1996 by winning five Assembly elections on the ticket of CPI. In 2002 Assembly poll, BJP’s Krishnanand Rai broke Afzal’s monopoly when he contested on SP ticket. But in 2005, Krishnanand was murdered and sympathy votes enabled his widow Alka to win Assembly by-election from this seat in 2006. 
 
 However, in 2007 Afzal’s brother Shibgatullah emerged victorious from this seat by defeating Alka and retained the seat again in 2012 on a QED ticket.
 
 Though Mukhtar is contesting from Mau and his son Abbas Ansari is making his political debut from Ghosi seat on a BSP ticket, all eyes will be on Mohammadabad seat from where BJP is trying to challenge the monopoly of Ansari brothers. 
 
 Taking lessons from her defeat in 2007 Assembly poll and denial of ticket in 2012, Alka has made it clear that she is not going among people to get their votes as sympathy which had ensured her victory in 2006 assembly by-election. “People of this assembly area are looking for development and I am going among them on this issue only,” she said.
 
 
