Coimbatore: Former chief minister O Panneerselvam on Saturday requested the youths and students to extend their support to his fight for justice and form a stable government in the state. He also promised them a corruption free government led by AIADMK (Puratchi Thalaivi Amma), while ruling out any possibility of merger with the ruling faction.

 Addressing the party cadre at Codissia Grounds here, Panneerselvam said AIADMK (Amma) faction has 122 MLAs and 2,417 administrative leaders, but the 1.5 crore cadre were with his faction. “We will ultimately capture the power in the state,” he said, exuding confidence.
 
 Indirectly hinting that the ruling faction had provided cash to the 2,417AIADMK administrative leaders, OPS said there was no need for someone from outside to bring down the present government. “Their own (AIADMK-Amma) people will topple the government,” he said adding that most ministers in the cabinet were inefficient to hold their current portfolios.
 
 Panneerselvam, however, requested the media to take a neutral stand. “Some work with an agenda to spread wrong information about me and some tell the truth. So, people are confused. If democracy has to be saved, media should take a neutral stand and tell the truth to the people,” he said.
 
 The former CM also came down heavily on DMK working president M K Stalin and termed human chain protest against the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) a drama. OPS said his faction has requested the prime minister, Narendra Modi, to exempt the state from NEET. 
 
 “People of Tamil Nadu won’t forget the regime of DMK. It was a period of land grab and atrocities. They failed the state in the Mulla Periyar and Cauvery issues,” OPS said.
 
 Former AIADMK finance minister C Ponnaiyan, meanwhile, requested OPS to press the Centre to lift the ban on Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). “The LTTE fought for the rights of the Sri Lankan Tamil people. Now, European Union has lifted the ban on LTTE. OPS should press the Centre to lift the ban on LTTE,” he said.
 
 Former AIADMK agriculture minister S Damodaran said there was no need to merge with AIADMK (Amma). “If they want, they can approach us and join us,” he said.
 
 Over 10,000 cadre participated in the meeting.
 
 
