Panaji: The special investigation team (SIT) of Goa police arrested a businessman Imran Khan on Tuesday evening, who they said was running a mine in Sanguem as “a proxy” to former chief minister Digambar Kamat, in the Rs 35,000-crore illegal mining case. Rubbishing the charge, Kamat said he has absolutely nothing to do with Khan.  Khan, a power of attorney holder of a mining lease in Sanguem, is accused of having fabricated environmental clearance. After the Goa State Pollution Control Board found out about the fabrication, the mining operation in TC no. 65/51 belonging to Amelia Figueiredo was suspended, SP (crime branch) Karthik Kashyap told TOI. Kashyap said Khan allegedly extracted iron ore amounting to crores of rupees specifically for the period 2007-2012 “under the blessings and acting as a proxy to an influential politician from Salcete”. A source in SIT said 2 lakh tonnes of ore were extracted from the mine during the period, adding that the mine was shut till 2006. Khan also availed power of attorney to act in TC 65/51 from the legal heirs before the state government decided to transfer the lease in the name of the rightful heir, SIT officers said. “The state government in 2009 ensured that the lease transfer approval was given by the mines minister in the name of legal heirs, who had given the power of attorney to Imran Khan,” an SIT officer said. He said that Khan’s link to Kamat is being investigated.  As the legal heirs were old, Khan and an influential politician took advantage of the situation and extracted iron ore amounting to crores of rupees, police said Soon after he was arrested by the SIT at 6pm, Khan moved for bail before the sessions court. Arguments were heard by the district and sessions court at around 9pm. SIT police inspector Dattaguru Sawant, who argued before the sessions court against the bail in the absence of the special public prosecutor, said there was “deep rooted criminal conspiracy of theft in connivance with influential politicians”. He also said there was nexus between “highly influential politicians and Khan, as the case involves corruption by bureaucrats, traders, politicians etc”. He told the court that the SIT needed 24 hours for custodial interrogation. Sawant told TOI that Khan’s lawyer sought interim relief, which was rejected by the court. The arguments will be heard at 10.30am on Wednesday, he said. TOI had recently reported that the SIT investigations had revealed that 25 mines in Goa were operated by persons other than leaseholders. Investigations also revealed that certain persons under the pretext of getting permissions from government offices had taken power of attorney from some leaseholders and then used it for getting environment clearances from the Centre to operate the mines. After two traders were arrested, it was revealed during their interrogation that there were around 24 cases in which traders have illegally extracted iron ore.  On August 19, 2013, the crime branch had registered a FIR against politicians, bureaucrats, mine owners, mines department officials and others identified in the three reports. The SIT was constituted on August 26, 2013, to investigate into illegal mining cases and all illegal mining cases were transferred to SIT.