JAIPUR: Union minister Giriraj Singh has said that Chittor queen   was being trifled with because she was a Hindu, adding that Hindu gods and goddesses are fair game for filmmakers who wouldn’t dare to make a movie on Prophet Mohammed. 

 Without taking his name, Giriraj also justified the vigilante group Karni Sena’s attack on filmmaker   on the set of the movie. “The opposition over distortion of historical facts was right. The film is being made by those for whom Aurangzeb and such personalities are icons,” Giriraj said here. 
 
 No attempt to twist “historical facts” would be tolerated, Singh said. “All sorts of remarks are made on Hindu gods and goddesses and many films like ‘PK’, etc., are made on them. Has anyone dared to make a film on Mohammad sahab (Prophet)?” Giriraj said. He added that people would no longer tolerate insults to Hindu heroes and give a fitting reply to those who “misrepresent the country’s culture”. 
 
 “The way Padmavati has been portrayed (in the film), no one would have probably dared to do so if she were not a Hindu,” he told reporters at the Khasa Kothi in Jaipur. “Padmavati destroyed herself but did not surrender... So, public should definitely punish such people (who portray her wrongly),” the Union minister added. 
 
 Karni Sena members had manhandled Bhansali while he was shooting at   in Jaipur on Friday, drawing sharp reactions from the film industry with its members demanding action against the attackers. 
 
 Meanwhile, BJP MP from Barmer, Sona Ram Chaudhary, condemned the attack on Bhansali and asked the state government to act against the ‘goons’. Chaudhary did not take Karni Sena’s name but said whatever happened with Bhansali was incorrect. “As far as tampering with history is concerned, the country has many agencies like the censor board, government committees, departments, courts and police. But the way the filmmaker was assaulted in Rajasthan’s capital was absolutely wrong and condemnable. It sends a bad message in the country and abroad,” Chaudhary said. 
 
 Chaudhary said history belongs to the entire country and connecting it to a particular community was wrong. “Bhansali is a filmmaker of international repute; I condemn the attack on him. Such attacks have adverse impact on the state’s tourism and businesses,” Chaudhary said.
 
