CANACONA: Goa’s southern-most taluka, which sits cradled between the Western Ghats and the Arabian Sea, has a rich and varied folk culture, one it has inherited from both its tribal and non-tribal populace. Settlers from other parts of the state, who came to make the taluka their home at different times in history, have also left their imprint on its folk culture, especially visible in the dances, rituals and songs performed on the occasion of Shigmo.
 
  Ajit Paiguinkar, a folklorist from  , says, “We have a rich and varied Shigmo tradition, both tribal as well as non-tribal, which is deeply rooted in the soil of this land. Also, the folk dances of Canacona like the goff, tonayamel, talgadi and the ritualistic performances of tarangamel, veeramel, shisharanni have their own unique stamp.”
  
  While the varied ancestries have left distinctive marks, there are common traditions threaded in the culture that binds it inexorably to the Pernem, Quepem, Tiswadi and Bardez talukas, the areas from where many of their forefathers migrated.
  
  And one such tradition is that of the ‘maand’. Held sacred by agrarian community, the maand is a place designated by their ancestors to conduct all rituals and congregate to socialize.
  
  In this respect Canacona is no different. Come Shigmo, the maand is a hive of activity. Before the commencement of rituals, the place is cleaned and plastered with a fresh coat of cow dung and a lamp is lit. This is followed by an invocation of the gods in the folk style. It is only then that the folk dances commence.   is the first to be invoked followed by   and then various gods and goddesses in the vicinity of the place.
  
  Another interesting tradition involving the maand seen in Canacona is associated with the Velip community, that was once a forest dwelling community.
  
  In some parts of Canacona, on the ninth day of the first fortnight of Phalgun, the last month of the Hindu calendar, the Velip community visits its maand, which is located in a forested area. Here, at night, they perform the folkdance tonyamel to the beats of the ghumot, samel and kasale, all the while reciting folk songs based on nature and their socio-cultural heritage.
  
  Among its other interesting Shigmo traditions are the folk dances and other unique rituals.
  
  In the coastal villages of   and Khola, on the day of a full moon night, villagers first perform the various folk dances at their respective temples before putting up the same performance at every house in the village. Participation transcends economic and educational status.
  
  Mahendra Phaldesai, a folk artist from Canacona who has presented these folk songs to a receptive audience both in India and abroad, says, “Throughout Canacona, Shigmo performed on the sacred maand is the most colourful.”
  
  The Mallikarjun temples of   and Gaondongorim are famous for the ritualistic performance of the tarangamel.
  
  During celebrations, the insignias of the presiding deity along with those of affiliated deities are brought out in procession to the beat of drums by villagers dressed in the traditional costume. The umbrella-shaped insignias, called tarangas, are placed atop wooden staffs, and insignias of female deities are even dressed up in a saree. The people holding the tarangas, ‘gade’, are chosen. They are believed to enter into a trance inside the temple’s sabhamandap. At this point, much to the fascination of those gathered to watch the ritual, the taranga stands unsupported for a while. Devotees throng to the temples to seek the blessings from the tarangamel.
  
  The lamp fair or divja zatra is another highlight of the Shigmo festivities. At the fair, married women of non-tribal communities and women from the tribal community take part in a procession around the presiding deity holding a traditional lamp. In the days of yore, the women would carry an earthenware lamp, however, today, these have been replaced by lamps fashioned out of metals like brass and silver.
  
  In the tribal community, participation in the zatra is a must for unmarried girls, for only then are they eligible to get married. They participate in the zatra along with their maternal uncle. The married woman of the non-tribal community, however, seek the blessing of the presiding deity for a long life for her husband.
  
  The zatra has become an attraction of sorts and draws people interested in watching the proceeding, as also devotees in large numbers.
