TRICHY:   in the appointment of government nominee for vice chancellor search committee is holding back the appointment of vice-chancellor for  . 

 While the VC’s post has been lying vacant for the last four months, syndicate and senate nominees for the search committee were elected a couple of months back.
 
 However, the selection process is in a limbo owing to the delay in the appointment of the final nominee of the state government. It was decided that a two-member convener committee headed by the higher education secretary will manage the university affairs until a new vice-chancellor is selected. The director of technical education (DoTE) was appointed as the member of VC convener committee.
 
 Following the end of tenure of vice chancellor V M Muthu Kumar in May this year, a special syndicate meeting of Bharathidasan University (BDU) was called on June 8. Subsequently, BDU syndicate and senate members announced their nominees for the VC search panel. 
 
 While C Thiruchelvam, former registrar of BDU, and R  , a college administrator, were nominated, their appointment stood void following a state ordinance. 
 
 Following state government’s amendment in the sub section 12 of Bharathidasan University (BDU) Act 1981, the nominees lacked the specified qualification introduced as part of the amendment.
 
 A section of syndicate and senate members had boycotted the VC search committee election and also petitioned governor C H   Rao seeking fresh election alleging discrepancies. 
 
 While there has been no response from the governor, even after two months, the members are eagerly waiting for the upcoming syndicate meeting scheduled for October 6. 
 
 “We do not have any other option but to seek the court’s intervention if government nominee is appointed in the meeting without listening to our grievances,” said S Dhandapani, BDU syndicate member who boycotted the election. 
 
 Registrar in-charge of BDU R   said that the process is on to nominate a government nominee for the VC search committee. 
 
 “While the government is going through a tough phase dealing with sacked deputy general secretary TTV Dinakaran, the higher education minister seems to have no time to look into the matters of the university,” said a source from the BDU administration. 
 
 
