JAIPUR: A 55-year-old woman, who was living alone in her house in  , was found murdered in the   in   late on Wednesday evening.

 The victim, Neelam Kanwar, was found lying in a pool of blood by her tenant at 7.30 pm who informed the Mansarover police. Kanwar’s house was completely ransacked as cushions, cloths, and other items were strewn all over her house, raising suspicion that killer was scouting for a particular item, probably a document. 
 
 “It doesn’t seem to be a killing for loot as the gold chain was lying next to the body, Kanwar was probably acquainted with the killer as we have found two glasses of water on the table. The condition of the door was intact, therefore the killer didn’t break in,” said a senior police official.
 
 Dinesh Singh, son-in-law of the victim, said that Knwar was living alone after the death of her husband Bhagirath Singh in 2011. Her daughter was living with her husband in Jhotwara. “She was very particular about her as she never opened door for any stranger. She would pay bills to milkman and vegetable vendors from her window. Therefore, we suspect that she knew killer and opened the door,” said a senior police official.
 
 Senior police official of the Jaipur police rushed to the spot and to take stock of the situation, additional commissioner of police, Prafull Kumar, accompanied by Manish Agarwal (DCP South ) inspected the area and spoke to the deceased’s relatives.
 
 “We cannot rule out any possibility yet, it could be killing for loot or some personal enmity. The   teams have collected samples from the crime spot and our investigation has started,” Kumar told TOI.
 
 Deshraj Yadav, ACP, Mansarover said that police have registered a case and sent Knwar’s body for post mortem to Japuria hospital. 
 
 Knwar had given her two houses on rent to eight tenants; her son-in-law ran a pharmacy shop a few miles away from her house. Ratna Singh, Kanwar’s neighbour said that victim was very concerned about her security and always kept the doors locked from inside.
 
 “Her main door had multiple locks, and she never allowed anyone to walk into her house, she entrained guests through window and would call up her daughter if she spotted any suspicious person,” she added.
 
 The control room directed all 54 police stations that suspect may try to leave the city, and therefore suspicious vehicles and people should be quizzed. “There is stop and search operations launched across the city, PCRs, Chetak and Sigmas are hunting for the accused,” cops said.
 
 The incident comes in the wake of a high alert issued by the Rajasthan police ahead of the Republic Day. 
 
 
