MEERUT:   and   in a joint rally here on Tuesday said BJP and BSP both were being blown by the “SP-Congress storm” sweeping Uttar Pradesh. They said it would “finish” Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is “trying to bring Company Raj” in India.
 
  Addressing the rally at Meerut’s Nauchandi Grounds, the Congress vice-president remembered Meerut's role in the country’s first war of independence against the East India Company in 1857 and equated Modi’s style of functioning with Company Raj itself. “There was a time when people of Meerut rose against the East India Company in 1857, but now Modi is trying to bring the oppressive Company Raj back,” he said.
  
  The Congress leader said they will not allow BJP to “spread hatred” in Uttar Pradesh, a “state of peace and harmony”. Earlier this week, addressing a rally in Aligarh, PM Modi had attacked the newly-formed SP-Congress alliance, saying the BJP “storm” had forced Akhilesh Yadav "to desperately seek help of anything, even a pole”, to retain power.
  
  Hitting back at the PM over the “storm” remark, Akhilesh on Tuesday said if there is any “aandhi (storm)” in the state, it is there to make an SP-Congress alliance government. “We are Samajwadi people. Even if there is a storm, we will face it head on. We know how to paddle the ‘cycle’ (SP’s poll symbol) through a storm,” the UP CM said.
  
  Taking a dig at Modi’s 'SCAM' quip -- which the PM said stood for SP, Congress, Akhilesh, Mayawati -- Akhilesh said, "I can understand why Akhilesh, SP, Congress were included but why was my Buaji (Mayawati) included? She had celebrated rakshabandhan with BJP in the past.” The CM was referring to the BSP-BJP alliance of 1995.
  
  Akhilesh also attacked the BJP for “the path it is trading” and said it “posed a threat to brotherhood”. Urging voters not to elect the party, he added, “BJP has endangered the delicate fabric of brotherhood and is hell bent upon breaking it. The UP results will decide the future course of politics in the country.”
  
  Maintaining that the PM was favouring a few corporates, Rahul claimed the government had waived “Rs 1.1 lakh crore” owed by the “richest 50 families” but “didn’t give a penny” to the poor. He asked the gathering if “Rs 15 lakh” as promised by the BJP during the Lok Sabha poll campaign, had been deposited in their accounts and if the youth had been given jobs as promised by the NDA government.
  
  In the volatile Sardhana constituency, the UP CM indirectly attacked BJP candidate from this constituency Sangeet Som. “You have to defeat a person who was one of the main ones responsible for damaging Hindu-Muslim unity at the time of the (2013) Muzaffarnagar riots," he said. The SP has fielded Atul Pradhan from Sardhana.
