When it comes to wearing experimental clothing, women certainly have it easy. They are the ones pushing the fringes of fashion by stepping out in trends like ruffles, sheers, fringes and deconstructed drapes. In comparison, mens’ fashion operates within a much tighter framework. Most men are stuck in the rut with a few uniforms – a pair of well-fitted shirt and trousers for office, a pair of shorts or denims and tee when off-duty, and a three-piece suit or sherwani set for ‘special’ occasions. If you feel you are stuck in a style rut, here are six top trends that are bound to make a statement and drive away your fashion-related boredom... 

  
 
  Sheer fabrics are not just for female fashionistas, men can deploy it to show off their shaved and toned physiques. What you need to work this trend? Mesh shirts, light-weight jackets and sheer bombers. For festive occasions, pick transparent kurtas or sheer button-down shirts. Pair sheer, printed kurtas under military-inspired jackets. Add your tweaks to the runway looks. 
 
 
 
 
  For those leisurely days, go for conventional garments with a gypsy touch. Think fluid drapes but with a masculine flavour – oversized shirt teamed with loosely-fitted printed pants, or floor-length kurta teamed with a cowl neck jacket. Pick Indian textiles like khadi with block print or chikankari. Stick to an earthy palette. 
 
 
 
 
  Don’t underestimate the power of a minimal, clean, contemporary look. Think white overcoat, shirt and tailored trousers or a pair of crisp white kurta and cropped pants with white lace-up shoes. To keep your all-white look visually rich, think textures. Mix white pieces in fabrics like leather, nylon, cotton, etc. Or mix up shades like off-white, cream, eggshell. 
 
 
 
 
  How about investing in some chunky accessories to vamp up your look? The man’s version of the necklace is becoming popular on the runway. Try the bohemian 70s chains, nickel-free and lead-free metal pendants, necklaces with animal motifs and more. Leather accessories like bracelets are in. Just make sure you don’t overdo it. 
 
 
 
 
  Ditch the sober, traditional formal wear and give your structured separates a quick lift with multi-coloured stripes. Striped trousers or blazer is an effortless way to stand out from the crowd. Pick crisp cottons and light linens with stripes in a vivid colour palette, like pastels of the tropics – light olive, teal, military maroon and camouflage grey. 
 
 
 
 
  Stop being that average guy on the street who typically has one visible layer: shirt or T-shirt and trousers. Or maybe that predictable jacket on dressy occasions. Beyond its functional role of keeping you warm, layering enhances your look by adding a dash of individuality to it. Think colour combinations and textures while putting together different items. Pick anti-fits for an ‘interesting’ touch.
 
 
 
 Men can work the sheer trend with patches of mesh and solid fabrics. Or, add a blazer or jacket over a sheer shirt
 
  
 
 Break the stereotype for androgyny by mixing and matching styles
 
 
 
 For a successful single-colour look, create clear distinction between each piece. Pick innovative drapes 
 
 
 
 
 Your topmost layer should be long and loose enough to cover all the layers beneath – be it a shirt, T-shirt, or sweater
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
