Delhi University's   was in the news recently after a clash between students of different political parties turned violent. It all started when JNU student Umar Khalid, who was charged with sedition last year, was invited to speak at a seminar in Ramjas, a move that did not go down well with ABVP members. While the incident resulted in weeks of unrest, violent confrontations, marches and counter-marches in the university campus, Ramjas alumnus   feels that it has not, and should not, affected the college's reputation. The actor, who was in the city to promote his upcoming film 'Naam Shabana', tells us that though he did not take part in political rallies and protests during his college days, he has always been a keen observer of student politics. 

 
 Talking about the incident, Bajpayee says, "The ideals of students from different political parties had always clashed, even when I was in college. So for me, this news wasn't something I had not seen or read earlier. These things happen. It is a small campus, there are people with strong viewpoints contesting in elections and they want to have control over the campus, so I think clashes are inevitable. But I don't think this has affected the reputation of the college. Rather, it has put Ramjas in the limelight. It seems like Ramjas is the only college in the entire university right now. The reputation of the college is far bigger than any clash. It has great students, alumni and teachers. A college is made up of all the students studying there, and who have studied there before."
 
 "The college has earned its reputation with the sweat and blood of the teachers, it will not be ruined not an event that created a ruckus," says Manoj.
 
 
 Bajpayee thinks that not much has changed in students' politics from the time when he was in college, but he hopes that students fight only through debate and not violence. He says, "The students in campuses will always be the same – some will be aggressive and some subdued. But I don't want any campus to witness the death of a student because of clashes. Campus politics should not deteriorate to that level. They should fight logically, debate on a stage, rather than resort to physical violence."
 
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Bajpayee, who was actively involved in the DU theatre circuit during his college days, says that students experimenting with unconventional topics is a welcome change. "If college theatre societies are being aggressive in portraying certain subjects, then it also means that they are desperate to bring about change. Whether it women's rights or LGBTQ, if it is happening through theatre, no matter how aggressive or polite the depiction is, I feel that it works for me. It is about getting your message across, loud and clear," he says and adds that though it may work in theatre, not many filmmakers are ready to take up unconventional topics since the stakes are higher in films. "These topics are still unconventional in our society. That's the truth. It is still a taboo in our society. The presence of Section 377 says so much. At the end of the day, mainstream movies are still heavily dependent on the first three day’s box office collections. But there are some filmmakers, like   (who directed  ), who work to leave an impact on people's minds. Most filmmakers do not want to risk their success or image for a subject which they think the society will not welcome."
 
  
 
 
