NEW DELHI: A day after the budget, finance minister Arun Jaitley and his predecessor locked horns over the government's management of the fiscal situation. 

  Chidambaram accused the government of discarding fiscal prudence and of violating   (FRBM) law. "The government has discarded fiscal prudence. The fiscal deficit has been kept 3.2% (of GDP), when it should have been 3%. It is strange that the government refuses to do what is wise and right and persists in doing what is unwise and wrong," he said. 
 
 Jaitley responded by slamming Congress-led UPA for its "terrible record of fiscal deficit" and its quality. He said that during UPA regime, fiscal deficit had touched 5.7% and it was at 4.6% when it demitted office. "And we are now being given sermons on fiscal deficit... The tax refunds which were held back, the payments which were held over to the next year. The quality of fiscal deficit was indeed inadequate. And what is worse is that those red lines the phrase I repeated here, were all achieved not by collecting more taxes and spending more but by making cuts at the end of every year." the FM said, while defending his track record.
 
 Chidambaram hit out at the Union Budget on Thursday calling it a "damp squib" and accused the Modi government of not giving a roadmap to revive anaemic job growth and investment.
 
 He said the Budget has ignored the victims of demonetisation -wage earners, self employed and small enterprises -by not giving them any compensation, even as he termed the income tax cuts as "pitiful". In a left-handed compliment, he commended the finance minister for not doing anything "reckless" in the wake of the debacle of currency ban. Addressing reporters, the former finance minister said the Budget was littered with evidence that demonetisation has demoralised the government into "retreating from reforms".
 
 Listing the Budget failures, Chidambaram said the government had ignored any mention of 'minimum support price' despite the farm sector being in "acute distress". “There is absolutely nothing in the Budget that points to a change of strategy to create new jobs,” he said. He said the NDA had promised to create two crore jobs every year but its best was 1.5 lakh jobs in 2015-16.
 
 
