PUNE: The city’s   challan issuing system has become completely cashless and paperless — the first in the country to do so. 

 After the trial run of the   system in April with 200 e-challan machines, the traffic branch was issued around 300 new gadgets on Wednesday to replace the age-old receipt-book system — at the centre of many allegations of corruption. From now, traffic rule violators will have to pay the penalty on the spot using their debit/credit card on the machines.
 
 The receipt system has also gone paperless with the scrapping of the system of issuing paper receipts for the   paid. Now, the traffic rule violators will get an SMS after swiping the card.
 
 The additional infrastructure has made it possible for all the 28 divisions to do away with the receipt books entirely and simultaneously enforce traffic rules at multiple spots in their jurisdiction.
 
 Those failing to pay the penalty (willingly or otherwise) risk withholding of their driving licence by the traffic division. The same will be returned only after they furnish proof of cash payment of the penalty at the nearest Vodafone store, with whom the traffic police has tied up.
 
 The machines were handed over to all the divisions on Wednesday by police commissioner  . 
 
 “We all want our city to be green. This is the traffic branch’s contribution to it, as we are no longer going to issue paper receipts,” she said.
 
 Shukla also reminded the department to uphold the image of the police.
 
  “A citizen may never visit a police station, but they will always see the traffic police as it goes about its work. The traffic situation is the real face of an area. Where it is bad, people equate it to an inefficient police. The e-challan machines are a means to shrug off all allegations of bribery and corruptions, and it is up to each division to improve its image,” she said. 
 
 While joint commissioner of police   hailed the devices for their cashless feature, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ashok Morale appreciated them for the transparency they will accord to the process.
 
 Rajendra Kane, director of   — the technical team behind the new system — said, “This is the first step in the image building of a constable into a ‘smart cop’. 
 
 So far, Pune is the only city in India to have this facility, which leaves no scope for discrimination between a sedan and a bike.”
 
