PIMPRI CHICHWAD: Determined to shake off the inertia caused by the meagre three seats it won the last time around, the BJP appears to be firing on all cylinders to win over voters in the forthcoming  . 

 With the slogan, “Time for change, time for BJP in Pimpri Chinchwad”, the party had clear designs on taking over the reigns of the   Municipal Corporation, where the   has held sway since 2007. 
 
 In the 24 days before the code of conduct came into effect, the BJP had made several announcements, including the revival of Hindustan Antibiotics Limited, the sick public sector enterprise whose employees had not been paid for two years; a metro rail route between Pimpri and Swargate; inclusion of the twin township in the Smart City mission; empowering civic bodies on penalty tax on unauthorized constructions, and Tejaswini buses for working women, for both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad.
 
 The BJP has also been bolstering its ranks by poaching several leaders and corporators from the NCP. The latest such acquisition was former mayor and NCP president Azam Pansare, who came into the party fold in the presence of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis last Sunday. 
 
 The NCP, for its part, criticized the BJP, saying all these announcements were made just to win the elections. Recalling that Pimpri Chinchwad was not a part of the Smart City mission last year, NCP’s city unit president Sanjog Waghere said: “Last year, there were protests by citizens’ groups and other political parties that the twin township was not included in the Smart City mission. NCP chief Sharad Pawar had even met urban development minister Venkaiah Naidu last September in this regard.”
 
 The BJP, however, issued a rebuttal. 
 
 “The government at the centre and state is looking for the overall development of urban areas in the country. Municipal elections will come and go but these decisions will benefit future generations,” said Babu Nair, general secretary and spokesperson of BJP’s Pimpri Chinchwad unit.
 
