NEW DELHI: The three-member  , formed by the Narendra Modi government to reinvestigate some 1984   cases, has finalised its   in most of the 59 cases which were identified by it for re-examination and submitted a report in the Supreme Court.

 A bench of Justice Dipak Misra and Justice R Banumathi had last month asked for a comprehensive report from the SIT. 
 
 The report was submitted in the apex court a few days back giving details of investigations done so far, a senior government official without sharing the details. The official, however, said the probe has almost been finalised in most of the cases.
 
 Sources told TOI that two days ago, the home ministry extended by six months the term of the SIT, which is headed by IPS officer Anurag and has retired district judge Rakesh Kapoor and Delhi Police DCP Kumar Gyanesh as members.
 
 The SIT was formed in February, 2015 by the home ministry on the recommendations of a committee led by retired Supreme Court judge Justice GP Mathur. The SIT was given access to all the documents and case files by the government for a fair probe.
 
 During its two years’ probe, the SIT examined 650-odd cases registered by the Delhi Police 32 years back in connection with the riots. It found that of these 59 cases required re-investigation. It examined evidence, statements, charge-sheets and closure reports of both the Delhi Police and CBI. 
 
 The SIT also questioned Congress leader Sajjan Kumar thrice at its Lok Nayak Bhawan office and asked him questions about the allegations that he instigated a mob in Janakpuri on November 1, 1984, which led to the killing of two Sikhs - Sohan Singh and his son-in-law Avtar Singh. This particular case was earlier closed by CBI citing lack of evidence against Kumar.
 
 Apart from Sajjan Kumar, the SIT also examined several other persons, including some Delhi Police officers, who had handled the probe. 
 
 More than 3,000 people were killed in the   all over the country, out of which 2,733 deaths were reported in Delhi alone.
 
 
