MUMBAI: "You had a great bunch of cricketers," mumbled  , immediately after recounting his stint (from 2000 to 2005) as India's first foreign cricket coach during his speech at a Rotary Club of Bombay Midtown event on Wednesday. 

 The Kiwi especially has a soft corner for leg spin great  , who was a senior member of the Indian team which Wright coached at that time. "The current group of India players are so fortunate to have Kumble as their coach. He's an outstanding man of great integrity and great intelligence," complimented the 62-year-old.
 
 Wright felt that Team India will be a tough nut to crack in the   in England in June. "India's got a good team. Your pace attack is perhaps the most potent it's ever been. The Indian seamers were very good in India earlier, and if Anil Kumble (the current India coach) can ensure that they stay disciplined (in terms of line and length) in England, it would be tough to beat India. However, your batsmen need to adapt quickly to the conditions, because it'll be early summer in England, and the ball will seam around. In fact, the team which the quickest in adapting to the English conditions will win the tournament," Wright told TOI in a quick chat.
 
 Even as most of India's top batsmen are out of form, almost all the fast bowlers in the India squad for CT -  , Mohammad Shami, Jasprit Bumrah,  , and even seam-bowling all-rounder Hardik Pandya have been amongst wickets during the long home season which included Test series against three visiting teams and then the IPL.
 
 In fact, it was Wright who discovered Bumrah, when he was the   coach, before the 2013 IPL. The former MI coach now spends almost six months in a year in India these days, especially during the domestic season to hunt for potential players which his franchise can buy in the IPL auction.
 
 Analysing his team's defeat in the first playoff to Pune Supergiant at the Wankhede on Tuesday night, Wright said: "Last night's match was a great example of how momentum swings in Twenty20 cricket. We were in total control till the last two overs (of the Pune innings), and then (MS)   went crazy and played brilliantly, and we didn't execute our plans well. Then, they got a couple of early wickets, and all of a sudden things changed."
 
 Wright felt that it was time that referrals are allowed in the fast-paced world of T20 cricket, but the move must be aimed solely preventing the obvious howler. "  (MI captain) was unlucky last night. He has hit the ball. It changed the game. I like the review system, and I don't like it. I like it when it's so obviously not out, that the first replay says it's not out. We can all see it, can't we? If it's so obvious, and we can fix it up quickly, and it's fast and we can see an accurate decision, but if we've to wait and have one cup of tea after another (and yet the replays aren't conclusive), if it's going to take forever (then it's not ideal)," he felt.
 
 While India enjoyed quite a bit of success under him, Wright proved to be a good coach in T20 cricket too -- MI won their maiden IPL title in 2013, and then CLT20 with him in charge. Explaining his coaching mantra, Wright said: "I learnt about T20 cricket from football. I remember  , (who was a manager of Nottingham Forrest when they won two European Cups) had said: 'What's the point of scoring six, if you let in seven.' So, I firmly believe that you've got to have a good fielding and bowling unit in T20 cricket."
 
