MUMBAI: Railway minister   has sanctioned Rs 7 crore to upgrade infrastructure on the 20-km Neral-Matheran route with an aim to enhance safety of the toy train passengers.

 The operation of century-old toy train, which is popular among the tourists visiting the hill station, has been suspended after derailments on two Sundays in May 2016. 
 
 “The railway minster has approved the project funds so that the work on restoring services can be done at the earliest,” said Narendra Patil, chief public relations officer of Central Railway. 
 
 A 5,650m stretch will get an anti-crash barrier, while a 150 m retaining wall and 500 m gabion wall will be constructed. The project cost will be split equally between the state government and the Railways. “These protective features will ensure that the train does not fall in the valley even if there is a derailment,” Patil said,
 
 CR has also finalized plans to restart shuttle services on the 3km Aman Lodge-Matheran stretch at speed of 10 kmph. CR usually runs 24 shuttle services during the weekend between Aman Lodge and Matheran.
 
 “We have received the approval from the commissioner of railway safety to carry out trials, which can only happen after the ballast is changed to ensure that track is in good condition. The work on the 3 km stretch will be completed in couple of months,” a senior official said. 
 
 In December, CR had hinted at putting the Matheran toy train services back on track. The CR administration has brought two engines with an air brake systems to Neral station last month and has commenced the track-repairing work on the Neral Matheran line. Earlier, another engine prototype had been brought to Neral. CR divisional railway manager   had visited the hill station on December 23 to take stock of the project.
 
 “We have a 600 horsepower locomotive and 8 coaches that can run on air-braking system. We plan to run one rake on the 3km stretch between Aman Lodge and Matheran and not on the entire 20 km route beginning from Neral in the first phase,” a senior CR official said. 
 
 CR had been working on developing the locomotive, which is compatible with the air braking system. 
 
 The older locomotive had 300 horsepower, which was not sufficient to operate the air-brakes.
 
 
