Fields, mangroves destroyed to make way for monstrous roads, development designs that are uncharacteristic of region, private forests and public beaches bought by corporates at prices that are soaring beyond morality. “Is this Goa…really?” asks  .
 
  A drive to Alvares’ home in   gives you a glimpse of his idea of Goa. The narrow winding bylanes, green fields, temples sharing walls with colonial houses, clean neighbourhoods, and once you enter his compound — fresh organic gardens, cozy verandahs guarded by the house dog and red cemented floors. “As Goans, we have always been the hospitable kind, and because we were naturally accommodating, we had enough time to stop in our tracks and help those lost find their way. This is Goa — inclusive co-existence, the greenery, vast coastlines, roads lined by coconut trees and tiled-roof houses,” says the social activist, adding that Goa’s natural charm attracted the right kind of tourists and settlers.
  
  Originally hailing from Mangalore, Alvares grew up in Bombay and when everyone else was queuing to move to the port city, he decided to make Goa his home, not before marrying a fellow green warrior,  . “It was 1977,” he says. “We decided we wanted a fresh start to our lives and coming back to family and friends in Goa was the ideal choice, and we have never regretted the decision,” says Alvares, who completed his doctorate in social sciences in the  .
  
  The environmentalist, who founded the  , is positive that Goa can survive this path of self-destruction that it has travelled for the last two decades, where “strange actors have done stranger things”. For his NGO, every day is a field day at the  , as Alvares continuously shuttles between Pune, Delhi and Goa, passionately battling the cause for sustainable development.
  
  Alvares recently launched the ‘Goenchi Mati Movement’, aimed at reimbursing Goans with their rightful share of their forgotten stake in the mining industry.
  
  The former journalist, who wrote for the   from 1983 to 1993, believes Goa needs politicians who visit citizens’ homes not to dish out doles, but to understand their concerns and work with them according to their strengths. “The monetary and material offerings are dressed as welfare schemes, but are actually bribes,” says  . “It is unfortunate to see how money is being allocated and spent so irrationally and frivolously. Also, mining companies, the government and most of us forget that miners are only lease-holders of the land, not owners of the land. The mines and ore belong to the people of Goa. If mining companies make their profits, then the locals must benefit too. Hopefully, we will have a government that understands and acts on all these issues and more.”
  
  Asserting that Goan society is not dead yet, he firmly believes in the ‘power of the people’ in shaping their future, and whoever is elected to lead Goa must understand that “we are not a community meant to work in a factory system from 9 to 6. We don’t need the industry, so stop trying to attract it. Instead, allocate money for sports, music, arts. Fund academies, projects, events and education in these areas”.
  
  Alvares says he and his wife decided from the start that they wanted to live a simple, minimal lifestyle and nurtured their three sons with the same approach. “They all turned independent when they got to 18, searching their own career paths, burning their fingers, finding jobs that could sustain them. I myself try to help out in the kitchen. Norma and I have been making chapattis every morning for four decades now, and I believe that has kept the marriage rolling on, besides our morning run in the countryside,” says the sexagenarian, who has got his green fingers dirty in some organic gardening, as the family grows its own vegetables and fruits for dinner.
