NAGPUR: City bus services may by badly affected from March 1 after the NMC’s contract with   (VNIL) ends on February 28.

 With just a day left for VNIL to wind up its city bus transport service, employees of the firm have decided not to work for any of the four private bus operators on low wages. This was decided at a meeting of VNIL employees convened by  , addressed by state general secretary Varghese Chacko, here on Monday.
 
 Chacko claimed that the private agency entrusted to recruit drivers and conductors is not paying minimum wages. So, the Union will move the high court as well as labour and industrial courts. A union meeting will also be convened in Mumbai on February 28 to chalk out future course of action.
 
 The union’s another demand is that the NMC should be the principle employee and not the private contractor. For this too, the union will approach the court, Chacko told TOI.
 
 Up in arms against low wages, the drivers and conductors of VNIL will not ply buses for any of the three new bus operators on March 1. The NMC’s transport department claimed that the civic body is ensuring that employees appointed by the operators get minimum wages.
 
 However, the NMC’s transport department claimed that the bus service will not be affected as three red bus operators will start operating 187 buses from March 1. “By March end, the number of buses will cross 300,” said transport committee chairman Narendra Borkar.
 
 “Already three Red bus operators have taken possession of 69 defunct buses and 170 JNNURM (Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewable Mission) buses (already plying on roads), which the civic body received from the central government. Apart from this, the operators will ply their respective fleets,” he said.
 
 Presently, three new operators have brought only 34 new buses till date. He failed to reply how the department will ensure smooth city bus service from March 1.
 
 According to Borkar, 55 buses will be parked at Patwardhan ground, 72 at Khapri and 60 at Hingna Naka.
 
 To a query, Borkar said Green bus operator   (SCVIPL) will operate only five buses. The five Green buses were plying on five routes including Kalmeshwar, Hingna, Kamptee and Butibori.
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Union road transport minister   had launched the nation’s first fleet of Green buses in the city on December 6 last year. The civic body had planned to run 10 of the 55 Green buses from December 7. But till date, the foreign company could only ply only five buses.
 
 Borkar clarified that as per agreement, SCVIPL will have to ensure operation of all 55 buses within six months since signing of the agreement with the NMC and issuance of letter of intent.
 
 Meanwhile, the transport department has approached the state government to allow it to increase its services in Nagpur Metro Region.
 
 
