KOCHI: In a   at  , a   on Thursday afternoon after she was   for a few metres by a truck that rammed a scooter.

 The accident happened when the 65-year-old woman was travelling with a distant relative on his scooter. The scooter reached Vallom Junction near Perumbavoor from Kodanad while the truck came to the junction from Angamaly . Both the vehicles collided and the truck dragged the scooter along the road.
 
 The woman, Aishukutty , who was riding pillion, succumbed to her injuries while on the way to the hospital. Kunjaayi, the relative of the woman who was riding the scooter, was rushed to a private hospital with injuries. The driver of the truck fled the scene.The police have seized the vehicle.
 
 
 : The Tripunithura Excise team, on Thursday , arrested two private bus conductors who peddled ganja from Kottayam to Ernakulam.The team seized 80 packets of ganja from the duo.
 
 One of the arrested peddlers was identified as Aneesh Kunjikannan (35) from Kannur. Aneesh, working in a bus plying between Pala and Ernakulam, was arrested near the new railway overbridge in Eroor. The peddlers used to sell ganja from a fixed spot. Binu Joseph (36), a native of Kottayam was arrested from another such spot near Tripunithura Taluk hospital. "Two weeks ago, we had booked two bus conductors engaged in ganja sales. We got information about a strong ganja network running in the city . The racket used to connect students with suppliers," said the inspector.
 
 "We also traced several phone numbers of students who were regular customers of the racket," said excise inspector H S Hareesh.
 
 The conductors used to transport ganja in bulk. The large packets of ganja which they brought from wholesale dealers was later put it in small packets of 5g or 10g. A 5-10 gram ganja packet costs Rs 500 in the local market.Customers used to roll about 15 20 joints from a single packet.
 
 Excise officials issued notices to owners of the buses in which the peddlers were working. An FIR under the NDPS act has been lodged against the accused.
 
  
 
