Whether they are tucked in notebooks as markers, weaved into large hand fans seen in temples or used as an ingredient in Ayurveda medicine   feathers have ornamental and utility values alike. However, an alarming rise in their demand across the country has goaded wildlife crime prevention organization TRAFFIC, an arm of WWF-I, to take up a detailed study on their source, use and market. According to the study, Tamil Nadu is the third major source of peacock plumes in the country after Rajasthan and Gujarat.

 It took six teams nearly two years to collect the data after touring 20 states across the country. The TRAFFIC team recorded an aggregate of 25.71 crore bunches of   in godowns in Rajasthan, 3 crore in Gujarat and 2 lakhs in Tamil Nadu. Agra and Rajasthan are the major suppliers of peacock feathers to Tamil Nadu and West Bengal while Odisha is the biggest buyer of peacock feathers, the study found.
 
 Shekhar Kumar Niraj, who heads TRAFFIC however says that it was difficult for the team to ascertain whether the feathers were plucked from the bird or picked after the bird shed it.
 
 "Earlier it was easier to ascertain whether the feather was plucked or shed by examining its root tip under microscope. But now, the bottom portion of the feather is always found to be cut, which makes us difficult to find the way it was procured," said Shekhar Kumar Niraj, who heads TRAFFIC. 
 
 The feather-shedding season for peacocks begins towards the end of August, when the tail plumes begin to loosen. The season lasts till late October or early November. The rate of shedding of feathers steadily increases in the first three weeks and peaks around the fourth week before declining. Studies say an average a peafowl sheds 115 viable feathers of the upper tail covert.
 
 In TN, a large population of peafowls is found in Ramanathapuram, Madurai, Pudukkottai and Nilgiris districts. Villagers mostly sell the feathers for paltry sums to hawkers who trade them to businessmen in the city.
 
 Around 1.95 crore feathers are used in TN and Kerala together to be used in the Kaavadis induring the Thaipoosam and Panguni Uthram festivals. The feathers are also used in making fans, fancy peafowl dolls, earrings as well as making churnams by Ayurvedic medicine practitioners.
 
 Stressing that the increased demand for feathers domestically and internationally would put pressure on the species, Shekhar said no plan to conserve and protect the species will work until their population is estimated.
 
 
