HYDERABAD: Despite regular patrolling and blocking of access ways,   in the city limits continue to be high. While the number of people attempting to commit suicide was higher at   -220 in 2016 -   came a close second with - 105 in the same year. Of these 104 lost their lives, as rescue is close to impossible in these cases.

 In the first two months of 2017, 10 people have lost their lives by jumping in front of tracks, say officials. Going by figures available with the government railway police, the number of people losing their lives year on year in the Hyderabad, Secunderabad and   areas of the railways remains almost equal. Over the last five years nearly 100 people (each year) have committed suicides on railway tracks in and around the city.These numbers are exclusive of the accidental deaths recorded by cops. Accidental deaths occurs primarily due to carelessness while crossing tracks. While authorities are able to control the attempt at railway stations, the access to tracks remain largely uncontrolled along railway lines passing through city areas.“Unlike other suicide bids, a suicide attempt by jumping in front of a train at a station or by laying on tracks results in fatalities 99.9 percent of the times. Railway tracks at isolated areas cannot be monitored. Even at railway stations it is difficult to understand the intention of a person who is about to jump and intervene on time. We are regularly patrolling and our constables have averted a few attempts by nabbing people moving suspiciously at stations,“ said A Anjaneyulu, Secunderabad.
 
 As per psychologists, whether the move is a 'spur of the moment' decision or `meticulously planned', the certainty of death is what leads people to jump in front of a train. “Anger, sadness, depression, a feeling of guilt, hopelessness or desperation are among the reasons for a person resorting to the extreme step. In cases where victims have experienced something very shocking and railway tracks are in accessible distance, they could resort to the step,“ explained Dr. K Prashant, consultant clinical psychologist, Yashoda Hospital, Somajiguda.
 
