PUNE: Lieutenant  , who was murdered by militants in Kashmir’s   district on Wednesday, was an alumnus of the National Defence Academy ( ) here, having passed out in 2015.

 The bullet-riddled body of the 22-year-old Fayaz was found in Harmen area of Shopian, south Kashmir, on Wednesday morning, hours after he was abducted by terrorists from Batpura village where he had gone to attend his cousin’s wedding. Faculty and course mates at NDA remember a cheerful, agile young man who was extremely fond of sports. Authorities at the academy told TOI that the young officer was from the   of the 129th course.
 
 He was a member of the academy’s volleyball and hockey teams during training from 2012 to 2015. “Fayaz was active in both sports. He was calm by nature. His records at the academy were also good,” an NDA official said. Lt Gen Abhay Krishna, the Colonel of Rajputana Rifles, grew emotional while paying tribute to the lieutenant. “We have lost a very good officer. Lt Fayaz was extraordinarily tough and highly motivated. He was always ready to take on challenges and believed in leading from the front,” Lt Gen Krishna said.
 
 “He did three years with the NDA, one year with IMA, and then joined one of the best regiments. Speaks of his commitment to the country and the Army... You felt good when he was around,” the general said. Expressing horror, Lt Gen Krishna said, “They killed a young and promising boy who was on leave to attend the wedding of his cousin and was unarmed. How does killing a young local boy square with the alleged freedom struggle they claim to be waging? This only proves once again that they are just a bunch of criminals.” The killing, he said, must serve as a wake-up call.
 
 “People in Kashmir should think about the lives of promising kids that are being snuffed out. They should come out and take on terrorists and criminals for the sake of their own children,” he said. An officer under whom Fayaz trained at the NDA’s Army Training Team said, “Despite coming from a humble background, he was excellent in academics and managed to crack the tough NDA entrance. He was a hardworking cadet and would have had a successful career in the force.”
 
 After passing out from the NDA in November 2015, Fayaz completed one year of training at IMA, Dehradun, and was commissioned into the 2 Rajputana Rifles regiment of the Army on December 10 last year. Fayaz was popular among the troops and was likely to go to Mhow to attend a course for young officers, Army sources said.
 
