CHARMINAR: With the month of Ramzan around the corner,   have raised concerns over children being used as a means to   for  , some of which exist only on paper.

 Those in the know pointed out that in the past couple of years, people from other states have begun to arrive in the city with claims that they run madrassas. As the month of Ramzan sees tens of thousands of Muslims giving charity in various forms --including cash -these dubious individuals seek donations often using a minor as a `proof ' that they have students.
 
 Activists pointed out that there have been several such cases in which these individuals have used minors as front to gather funds from unsuspec ting donors. Explaining their  , they said that these people stand at the entrances of masjids and other places of worship seeking donations.
 
 “They use children so that the donor feels some empathy and gives them funds. The thing is that it is very difficult to ascertain whether their institutions exist. It is only when physical verification takes place that we will get to know,“ says activist Ilyas Shamsi. He adds that the government should step in to keep such individuals at bay.
 
 Others life Affan Qadri, from Meher Organisation, an NGO said, “It is because of these nefarious individuals who use young boys as a front that genuine madrassas, which are in need of funds, are getting affected. People who come from the northern states corner zakat funds, apart from other modes of charity like fitra, fidiya and sadaqah. It is important that the donors become aware of their devious ways.“
 
 The sentiment is echoed by religious scholar Mufti Mahmood Zubair who points out that using minors to seek funds is unacceptable. “This is 100 percent wrong and should be stopped at all costs,“ he says.
 
 When contacted, deputy commissioner of labour E Hanumanth Rao said that fund collection work that minors are asked to do is technically not child labour and that it is the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and the police which should look into the matter.
 
 As it turns out, the cops have these `organisers' of fund seeking rackets on their radar.“We are keeping a close eye on the people who are behind these rackets. We have taken a serious note of the matter and have decided to contain this menace this year,“ deputy commissioner of police (south zone) V Satyanarayana said.
 
