CHENNAI: A few years ago, when the Indian jackal population at the Guindy National (GNP) began increasing, conservationists were thrilled. When the number touched 100, they were overjoyed.

 Now, almost all of them look like their skin has peeled off, infected with  , a skin disease caused by parisitic mites.
 
 Worried park managers with the help of a veterinarian from the   in   have completed a nearly month-long treatment course for the affected animals.
 
 A senior wildlife department official told TOI that the infection may have been spread by a pack of stray   that entered the park sometime ago. 
 
 About six moths ago, another official said, a couple of   were seen with the sumproms typical of the disease. Slowly it spread until almost the entire jackal population was affected, he said.
 
 The park managers knew providing treatment to a wild animal is difficult and were racking their brains for a way out. A wildlife enthusiast then suggested that the medicines required to treat the disease be embedded in what the jackals ate. It would help the drugs get into the digestive system and provide the required relief.
 
 The course of medication began on February 15, with park officials identifying the various jackal burrows and leaving heaps of medicated chicken in the vicinity. “On Tuesday last, the 28-day treatment course was completed and, slowly, the animals are expected to begin returning their normal selves,” said the official.
 
 Veterinarian N Kalaivanan said mange did not cause death directly. It weakened the animal gradually, with the constant scatching and reduced feed. The high stress brought on by the infection can also leave the affected animal open to other fatal diseases, he said. 
 
 The skin and hair are the most important for any animals to maintain the thermo-regulatory mechanism. It is this system that the mange-causing mite destroys. The almost invisible insect enters the upper skin before slowly getting under it, leading to pus formation. With the skin and hair affected, the animal’s normal fitness is also affected badly, he said.
 
 The treatment course may have been completed, but the bigger challenge remains, warn veterinarians and conservationists. A comprehensive, scientific survey of the jackal population inside the GNP should be taken up again and concerted efforts taken to remove stray dogs. More importantly, steps should be taken to ensure that they don’t retutn, ever. The park managers should identify the points through which the dogs enter the park and seal them properly, they added.
 
 
