BENGALURU: Have you received a ticket for a   you didn’t commit? Consider yourself lucky; many others have been ticketed multiple times for as many violations.

 On Tuesday,   released a list of 500 offenders with multiple cases of traffic violations against them, who have failed to pay fines. A close look at the top 10 traffic offenders in the city raises doubts on the legitimacy of such challans.
 
 Here is a sample: Of 1,500 tickets, about 600 are for `No Parking’ fines on a single stretch in Yelahanka -- Hospital Road.
 
 Mahalakshmi M Santosh, Raju Gujar and Saleem Pasha, who are among the top 10 offenders, collectively got 600 challans for parking in the ‘No Parking’ zone.
 
 The other two roads which appear to have recorded the highest number of traffic offences are Begur Road near Bommanahalli, and Old Madras Road, again for parking offences. Despite generating so many challans for the same offence, it is even more baffling that traffic police failed to initiate action and waited for a year to release the list.
 
 DCP West (Traffic) Renuka K Sukumar cited an offhand reason, saying it was difficult to identify routine offenders since traffic police constables on duty keep changing. “If it was the same constable on all days, we could identify the offender within days or months as a repeat offender. But a constable has no powers to issue notices to offenders on the spot, he has to come back to the station and ask his higher-ups to initiate action,” Renuka said.
 
 She maintained that Yelahanka traffic station had generated the highest number of challans over the past few months and it was laudable that constables were doing their work diligently.
 
 However, additional commissioner of police (traffic) R Hitendra said there is more to it than meets the eye. “There appears to be something amiss, largely because of the disconnect between the inspectors and constables booking challans against the same vehicles so many times. Neither was there photographic evidence in most cases against the 500 offenders.”
 
 He said his office will issue notices to traffic police inspectors under whose jurisdiction more than 100 challans were issued against the same traffic offender, to ascertain facts.
 
 FINES POURING IN
 
 Jitendranath Kurel, ranked third on the list of top 500 traffic offenders, cleared all his dues on Tuesday. Addl CP (traffic) R Hitendra said the numbers have already come down to 440 in the past 12 hours after the list was made public. In several other cases, partial payments were made.
 
