PANAJI: It is turning out to be a battle royale for the prestigious Panaji constiutency as   (GSM), the breakaway   faction of Subhash Velingkar, decided to field Krishnaraj Sukerkar alias Raju against sitting   MLA and Union defence minister Manohar Parrikar’s ‘Man Friday’ Sidharth Kuncalienkar. The entry of Sukerkar, a one-time partner and confidante of Parrikar, has queered the pitch for BJP and sent them back to the drawing board. 

 With Taleigao strongman and St Cruz MLA Atanasio Monserrate alias Babush also having jumped into the fray from Panaji and AAP fielding Valmiki Naik, political observers reckon it is not going to be easy for BJP. 
 
 Panaji has been Parrikar’s turf, which he has been guarding fiercely from the time he first wrested it in 1994 from the Congress. 
 
 That the BJP has been stirred out of its comfort zone was visible when a day after Sukrekar was unofficially declared as the GSM candidate, Kuncalienkar started a door-to-door campaign. There have been rumblings in the saffron parivar, too, with a section undecided whether they should support the BJP’s candidate or pitch in for Sukerkar. 
 
 The GSM candidate is not new to the parivar, having been the sangchalak of RSS Goa prant (north), before joining hands with Velingkar to be part of the new party.
 
 What has taken the edge away from the BJP has been that all the three candidates--Kuncalienkar, Sukerkar and Naik--are from the Gaud Saraswat Brahmin (GSB) community and may divide the community votes among themselves. The GSB community has around 4,000 votes in Panaji.
 
 In the 2012 polls, Parrikar had won the seat for the fifth time by more than 6,000 votes while his nominee Kuncolienker won the bypoll by 5,300-odd votes.
 
 Though Sukerkar acknowledged that he continued to be a friend of Parrikar and owned joint property with the Parrikar family, he made it clear that politics and friendship should not be mixed. In fact, after hearing that Sukerkar was planning to contest from Panaji and take on Kuncalienkar, Parrikar visited Sukerkar and tried to convince him not to stand for the capital seat, sources said. Sukerkar admitted that Parrikar did visit him, but said it was for a “friendly advice”. “As is his wont, Parrikar gave me some advice,” Sukrekar said, without elaborating what advice was given by Parrikar.
 
 “Looking at the current political scenario, I am confident of winning the Panaji seat,” Sukrekar said. 
 
 The former RSS man was the front runner for the BJP ticket in Panaji when Parrikar was about to move to Delhi to take over as the defence minister in November 2014. But he dismissed rumours that it was the denial of ticket that made him join the GSM. “I was not hurt when BJP did not offer me ticket to contest the 2015 Panaji byelections, as they had already decided their candidate,” Sukerkar said.
 
 He also put to rest doubts whether his friendship with Parrikar would bother the GSM cadre. “GSM and all its supporters are fully convinced that I am only with them,” he said. 
 
 Sources in the ruling party said that BJP will put in all its resources to retain the Panaji seat. The defence minister has much at stake and it is to be seen what he does to retain his hold in the constituency, a political analyst said. BJP could be in the danger zone if Sukerkar could muster even 2,500 votes, the analyst said
 
 Meanwhile, GSM president Anand Shirodkar said they along with Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) will officially announce the pre-poll alliance on Tuesday and also list out the candidates’ names.
 
 
