BENGALURU: It’s been a fortnight since the   government implemented the   (RERA) acting the state but not a single project or real estate agent has registered so far. It’s not because builders or agents don’t want to register but because the state government has been grappling with the launch of a dedicated website to facilitate registration as required under the central Act.

 On Monday, the state government was giving final touches for the launch of the website ( www.rera.Karnataka.gov.in) and if everything goes well, it would be available for registration from Tuesday, official sources said. The RERA Act makes it mandatory for developers to register ongoing projects in 90 days from May 1 and registration has to be done through the website. The deadline for registration of ongoing projects is July 31 and failure to do so may invite hefty fines. “There are a few days available for registration but we’re hoping the Centre will extend the deadline under pressure from various states,’’ said a senior official of the state   department. 
 
 Home buyers have their doubts: But home buyers are sceptical. “As on today, not a single ongoing project has been registered under RERA for the lack of a website.   and residential sales have taken a hit across the state with developers trying to grapple with Karnataka RERA rules and registration,’’ said M S Shankar, convener, Fight for RERA, Karnataka chapter. Notwithstanding the delay and implementation of RERA Act, he alleged that builders have been advertising the sale of ongoing projects without registering with the regulatory authority. 
 
 Another rule that home buyers are expressing doubts about is on deposits. It says, after registration, builders or promoters have to deposit 70% of amounts realized from allottees in a separate bank account that have not been utilized for construction of the project or land cost. While this is part of the original RERA Act, Shankar said they have incorporated another rule that says if the deposited amount of the ongoing project is less than the estimated cost of balance construction, then the promoter shall deposit 100% of the amount to be realised in the separate account. “This dilution will find developers mounting pressure on home buyers to make payments and progress of work on remaining projects will be delayed if realisation does not happen from home buyers. This will again impact completion of ongoing projects on time,’’ he said. Housing secretary  , however, allayed all fears and said they have framed rules in sync with the original RERA Act of the Centre.
 
