For two years,   shuffled around a proposal to spruce up the seafront from   to  . Finally, they have taken the first steps towards drawing up a detailed plan that will centre on the construction of a  

 The state government’s public works department has offered to manage the beautification project, described as first of its kind in Mumbai, while the   will line up the funding.
 
 The project, estimated to cost Rs 100 crore, includes repairs for Mahim and Bandra forts and installation of ‘Geotubes’ at Dadar chowpatty to control erosion.
 
 “A series of meetings were held before the code of conduct [for the municipal elections] came into effect. The BMC has agreed to make the funding provision for the project in this year’s budget,” said Shiv Sena MP Rahul Shewale, who earlier served as the chairman of the civic body’s standing committee.
 
 The BMC and the Maritime Board discussed the beachfront makeover for two years without making much progress. The involvement of the public works department in the talks gave a major boost to the proposal.
 
 PWD minister Chandrakant Patil has expressed excitement about the plan, and its key aspects were recently explained to Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis during a weekly review meeting, an official in the Mantralaya said.
 
 “A promenade will be first constructed on the Dadar-Mahim seafront. The distance is 500 metres. Depending on the success of this pilot project, the promenade will be extended,” another state official said. “There are tetrapods at some places on the seafront. We will build the walkway above them. At other places where no tetrapods have been placed, the pathway will be on level with the beach.”
 
 A lot of garbage is currently dumped near the tetrapods. The entire space will be cleared up.
 
 The idea for seafront beautification was first pitched by ‘AXIGO’, a Dadar residents’ group that includes architects, structural engineers, and planners. The group had made presentations before Sitaram Kunte when he was the municipal commissioner.
 
 Two and a half months ago, the residents discussed the proposal with representatives from the state government, mostly PWD officials, said Rohit Shinkre, a professor at Rachna Sansad Academy of Architecture.
 
 The residents’ proposal will form a major part of the project blueprint that the civic body and PWD are working on.
 
 New amenities could be added to the gardens and other open spaces near the beach as part of the project to create a pedestrian plaza.
 
 At Dadar chowpatty, Geotubes will be placed to check erosion. The technology is already being used by the Navy in Malad, Shewale said. Geotubes are sediment-filled sleeves of geotextile fabric and are installed in a trench parallel to the shore. In the West, they are covered with sand and beach vegetation.
 
