BENGALURU:   TK Kurien is all set to hang up his boots after nearly two decades of straddling different roles in the $7.5-billion IT firm. He will leave ahead of the end of his current tenure, which ends in March. The announcement is expected to me made at the company’s third-quarter results on Wednesday.

 TK, as he is popularly called, served as   for five years before being elevated as its vice-chairman early last year. Kurien was to continue also as member of the board until March 31.
 
 What he plans to do next is not clear. He has invested in a few startups in the artificial intelligence (AI) space and in mobile payments startup ToneTag.
 
 Kurien had sought for an early exit last year, but the board asked him to stay with the firm for his full-term. He previously told TOI he had covered seven million air miles in his five years as CEO and lived out of a suitcase 220 days a year. 
 
 But despite the hard work and despite being the hard taskmaster that everybody in   said he was, Kurien struggled to make the company grow. Revenue growth was way short of those of its peers. He could never achieve his desire to demonstrate at least four successive quarters of 4%-4.5% sequential growth.
 
 Wipro’s high exposure to the oil & gas industry proved to be a handicap when oil prices slumped. And Kurien couldn’t get other sectors to make up for this loss. Meanwhile, automation and newer technologies like cloud, mobile and AI began to redefine the way IT services were being delivered. And Kurien had to restructure the company to deal with this.
 
 “Previous Wipro CEOs had come up through the system, whereas TK had come up in other companies and was viewed as an outsider,” said Peter-Bendor Samuel, CEO of outsourcing research firm  .
 
  “One of the big challenges which TK inherited was that the other industry leaders had already made the changes to focus on industry, and TK was constantly playing catch up, having lost the first mover advantage that TCS and Cognizant gained. His focus on moving quickly, and impatience to catch up created a backlash in the Wipro culture which he had to constantly deal with,” he said.
 
 Phil Fersht, CEO of IT advisory  , said Kurien injected a great deal of focus on automation, analytics and digital technologies, overseeing the early days of Holmes (AI platform) development and setting the seeds for the DesignIT investment (Danish design firm acquired for Rs 595 crore in 2015) and the smooth succession of Abid ( ) to CEO. “While he did achieve some great successes along these lines, Wipro is still suffering from too many siloed P&Ls,” he said.
 
 Jessie Paul, founder of marketing advisory firm Paul Writer and who was previously chief marketing officer at Wipro, said Kurien put in place processes and operational efficiency in what was seen as a happy-go-lucky business. “In some instances, people operated on exception and not by policy. Kurien was cut and dried in saying that exception to the policy cannot sustain long term and it stemmed inefficiency and increased costs,” she said.
 
 A chartered account by training, Kurien’s penchant for numbers, cleaning up balance sheets, and bringing the GE-approach to operational efficiency was evident during his time with Wipro. This and his aggressiveness would have been what made chairman Azim Premji pick Kurien for the CEO’s job.
 
 Kurien did bring in a good amount of aggression, he revved up the sales engine. Kurien’s mandate as soon as he took over as CEO was to add more $100 million clients and strengthen its position in the banking and financial services vertical. Wipro had only one $100 million client when he took over. In 2015-16, it had over nine of them. Under his leadership, Wipro struck the $400-million contract with Japanese pharmaceutical major Takeda, broke into the Bank of America IT vendor league, and set a direction for its play in newer technologies, including driving its cognitive solutions platform Holmes.
 
 But for all that, Wipro under Kurien failed to catch up with its peers. Even its closest rival,  , surged ahead under CEO Vishal Sikka .
 
