NAGPUR: The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI), Nagpur, had organized an interactive session with city’s   (CAs) at a city hotel on Friday to discuss various financing options for new and existing businesses to help boost micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Vidarbha region. 

 Deputy general manager of SIDBI’s Nagpur branch PK Nath, assistant general manager   and manager   were present during the discussion with the CAs. Around 20 CAs from the city participated.
 
 The bank specifically finances a project which is not more than Rs10 crore and qualifies as a medium-scale enterprise, said Nath. He said that the bank will provide finance up to 75% of the total project cost depending on evaluation of the company’s assets. 
 
 According to Nath, the interest rate of around 7% on loans for medium enterprises is lower than other private or nationalized banks and done through receivable finance scheme (RFS). He said, “We also provide loans to large corporations for their projects. These companies with healthy balance sheets are able to pay a slightly higher rate of interest. So, at the other end, MSMEs are able to maintain their liquidity.”
 
 Vice-chairman of Western Indian Regional Council (WIRC) of Institute of Chartered   (ICAI)   raised the question of the gap of funding in working capital which the bank does not cater to. Nath clarified that SIDBI does not provide stand-alone finance toward working capital but only a fraction of its amount can be covered along with the cost of capital goods.
 
 SIDBI also offers business loans for start-ups too. However, due to high risk involvement, the bank needs to be confident of the promoter’s prospects before lending. Nath said, “We do finance fresh entrepreneurs but the loan is only approved on the basis of the promoters’ experience in a particular sector and his educational qualification. Only if we are satisfied with these two aspects will the loan be approved.”
 
 Whether SIDBI can take over a loan of another bank or not was raised by another participant. Nath said, “SIDBI does not promote loan takeovers as there are strict guidelines by the   (RBI) which sometimes private banks choose not to follow because they have good liquidity. But we can take any bank’s loan provided the promoter has successfully completed three out of five years with his first bank.”
 
