CHENNAI: Narrating a long list of illegalities committed at retail liquor outlets managed by the state-run   shops and bars, a   petition has sought installation of   cameras in these places to curb the menace.

 The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice M Sundar, before which the petition filed by advocate  , president of Advocates Forum for Social Justice, came up for admission on Tuesday, directed the authorities to consider the representation submitted to them on November 23 in this regard.
 
 It is Balu’s contention that besides the 3,076 liquor bars attached with vending outlets, more than 3,000 illegal bars are functioning in  , which has a total of 6,181 liquor shops. He said liquor is sold to underage consumers and they are allowed to use the bar though the sales personnel are mandated by law not to allow sale or service of liquor to persons aged below 21.
 
 Such a serious violation goes totally unnoticed because there is no monitoring mechanism, he said seeking installation of internet-linked CCTV cameras. He also alleged that liquor is sold at a premium and either cheap drinks or plain water is mixed with bottled liquor by unscrupulous sales personnel.
 
 The bars are far from hygienic, he said, adding that only a CCTV-based supervision could hold persons responsible for maintaining hygiene in those places. Many a time, tipplers park their vehicles outside the bars and start driving immediately after having drinks. Such drunken driving could be curbed only if CCTV is installed, he said.
 
 The PIL also talked about the nuisance being suffered by people residing near Tasmac shops and bars, and said they should be insulated from the troubles of liquor sale and consumption. Balu said easy availability of liquor even to underage people in the state had been the cause of various criminal offences across Tamil Nadu, and added that internet-connected CCTV could deny liquor to students and underage consumers.
 
 It wanted a direction to the authorities that unless the licensed bars are able to maintain facilities such as proper building, wash room, toilets and other hygiene requirements at the place, they should be closed outright.
 
 
