PUNE: The   traffic department has started a new initiative called “Safe Street” on a trial basis by zeroing in on one road in each of the 28 traffic divisions in the city and in Pimpri Chinchwad.

 The main aim and objective of this move is to reduce traffic violation, thereby ensuring safety on streets. Top brass of the Pune Police along with traffic department officers chalked out the new plan recently.
 
 Confirming this development to TOI, Pune police commissioner   said, “Yes, we have started this new initiative on a trials basis. We are also chalking out further plans in this regard. We are awaiting initial results.” She said.
 
 The department has 28 traffic divisions spread across the city, including Pimpri Chinchwad.
 
 The senior officers have categorically told each of the division head (inspector rank officer in-charge) to implement the plan strictly.
 
 Deputy Commissioner of police (traffic)   told TOI, “Under this plan, every in-charge of the traffic division would select a prominent road from his or her division and focus on that road. Extra personnel would be deployed on that road to curb traffic violation. This will not only deter violators but also enhance safety.”
 
 Officials from the department are of the view that this move will certainly give some respite to commuters.
 
 “For example, if we concentrate on  , the commuters will not have to suffer from wrong side driving, signal jumping and illegal parking, among others,” an officer from the department said.
 
 Officials said that it is difficult to stop people from violating traffic rules on every road in the city.
 
 Validating the new concept, an inspector rank officer, said, “We have to think about practical and possible ways to tackle the menace of traffic violation. It is not possible to focus on each and every road falling under a particular division. This new concept has given clarity on curbing traffic violation, which will percolate down to lower rank personnel who actually work on the ground.”
 
 However, some officials felt that manpower crunch would be a hurdle in implementing the move.
 
 “There is rampant violation of traffic rules by people, particularly in the absence of traffic personnel on the roads. To counter this, we need to beef up police presence on roads, but again it is not possible due to shortage of manpower. In such a situation, how can we get the desired results?” an officer asked.
 
 Meanwhile, a senior officer from the department echoed similar sentiment and said that as many as 200 traffic personnel from the department have been roped in for bandobast duty during the ongoing recruitment drive.
 
 “All the personnel from 28 traffic divisions have been pulled out for bandobast duty. Now, we will have to work with less manpower,” the officer said.
 
