CHANDIGARH: A newlywed man allegedly tried to   his wife by burning her at a secluded stretch in   on Tuesday night after she declined to divorce him.

 Gurbinder, 28, who is on the run, doused his wife Amrita, 27, with petrol and then set her afire.   -- who suffered 45% burns on face, neck, shoulder, waist and legs -- was first admitted to government hospital in Sector 16 and later shifted to PGI. Amrita and Gurbinder got married 10 days back on September 11. According to the FIR registered at Manimajra police station on Wednesday, the incident happened around 11pm on Tuesday at a secluded stretch near DC Montessori School, which is barely 200 metres away from the residential complex where the victim lives.
 
 Amrita’s mother, Mahi, told the TOI, “I was unwell and when I told my daughter about it, she took me to a doctor. When we were coming back on a Scooty, two bike-borne men with their faces covered intercepted us. Before we could understand anything, the accused threw petrol on Amrita, lit a matchstick and set her afire”. Mahi said flames engulfed her daughter and she ran on the road, screaming in pain. The victim’s mother informed the PCR, which reached the spot and made efforts to put out the fire by covering Amrita with blankets. Before the PCR arrived, the accused had fled the spot. The cops took the woman to the government hospital. Sources said it looked like an act of vengeance, as Gurbinder was not happy with the marriage. He had started forcing Amrita for a divorce and when she refused, he tried to kill her, said sources in police. Amrita, a beautician, said, “I got married to Gurbinder at Mansa Devi Temple and since then he has been forcing me for a divorce. When I didn’t agree, he attacked me. He set me on fire. ”
 
 Police have lodged an attempt to murder FIR against Gurbinder, a resident of Basant Vihar in Dhakoli. Amrita said she had been in a relationship with the accused for the past one and a half years. Whenever she asked Gurbinder for marriage, he refused. Then on September 9, she informed Manimajra police station. When the police questioned him, he agreed to marry. Manimajra SHO Harmender Singh said, “The woman had informed us that Gurbinder was refusing to marry her. She, however, did not give a written complaint.” 
 
