Rajkot: Saurashtra’s financial hub Rajkot took its first step towards becoming a Smart City with launch of the pan city   project — Rajkot Eye Way — to improve public safety, surveillance,  ,  ,  ,  ,   

 The first phase of the Rs 69 crore project was dedicated to the people by chief minister Vijay Rupani on Friday. The second phase is likely to be over in next one month. The project is joint venture of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) and Rajkot city police.
 
 With this launch, Rajkot becomes the first city in the state to integrate public services, traffic management and other services using technology.
 
 “The project will provide high quality, reliable and cost effective infrastructure for surveillance, parking, traffic monitoring, environment sensing, digital boards, Wi-Fi hotspots and high speed connectivity,” said RMC commissioner Banchha Nidhi Pani.
 
 “It will have manyfold benefits across the government departments with increased operational and financial efficiency. City and community centre facilities will have improved connectivity for providing online services, while police department will get high-quality video for surveillance to check crime and effective management of traffic,” he added.
 
 Pani said that the city administration and police will keep watch on the city through a network of 500 CCTV high resolution cameras that can be controlled from an Integrated Command & Control Centre (ICCC) at Nava Mava. “There will be 128 cameras that can pan, zoom and tilt, while special 18 cameras which can capture 360 degree view have been placed at strategic locations. Rest all are fixed cameras,” Pani said. Besides, an Automatic Number Plate Recognition System (ANPRS) and Red Light Violation Detection (RLVD) will also be in place.
 
 The RMC will be using Geo Fencing technology, where in sensors will be placed near open civic land so that nobody can encroach upon it. “There are 28 parameters that have been covered under the Eye Way project from traffic management to drainage and water level in dams. The surveillance will help police in fighting crime and also act as deterrent for criminals as they will could be traced easily,” Pani said.
 
 
