NEW DELHI: BJP accused BSP supremo   of resorting to baseless allegations against the Centre at a time when her brother   has been found having assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. 

 The party said Mayawati was frustrated as most of the   she had stashed by “selling“ tickets and other illegal means were reduced to trash in the wake of demonetisation.
 
 “BJP dismisses all the allegations levelled by Mayawati. Instead of criticising the prime minister, she should respect the law and provide proof if her brother is innocent... if he is innocent, he will be free otherwise he has to face the law,“ BJP spokesperson Shrikant Sharma said in a statement on Sunday .
 
 The BJP leader said Mayawati's allegation was base less as the case against her brother was registered during UPA's tenure and investigation was going on. “Why is she so worried if she feels that her brother is innocent. Her concerns, however, are self explanatory about the guilt that they have stashed money by all unlawful means,“ Sharma claimed.
 
 He alleged that the BSP chief collected money in the name of Dalits but was not concerned about their plight as “over 1,100 Dalits were killed and over 30,000 cases of harassment of Dalits came to light“ when she was in power. “Because of Mayawati's despotism and her links with criminals, she was voted out of power in 2012,“ Sharma said .
 
 He said people in UP knew about the understanding between SP and BSP of ruling the state alternately as Mayawati never raised a voice against the Akhilesh government but only criticised th “There will be state polls in UP where performance of Akhilesh government should have been discussed. However, Mayawati keeps talking about the Centre and BSP and has never bothered to question the Akhilesh government, which has failed on all fronts.“
 
 He said that “bua“ (Mayawati) and “bhatija“ (Akhilesh) were hand-in-glove and playing a fixed game which people had sensed.
 
 Sharma said Mayawati did not want uplift of poor people and kept making baseless allegations against PM Narendra Modi, who was working for the benefit of the poor and villagers.He said BJP would fight the UP polls on the planks of development and goe. In a press conference on her birthday in Lucknow on Sunday, Mayawati referred to the ED crackdown on her brother Anand Kumar and alleged that under a “planned conspiracy“, money deposited in banks by her party and some members of her family in a routine manner was being highlighted by BJP and the Centre in the media as if it was related to black money .
 
 
 
 
 BSP chief Mayawati chose the occasion of her 61st birthday to accuse the opposition parties, including BJP, SP and Congress, of colluding to stop her party from winning the UP assembly polls, and hit out at BJP for targeting her family members over alleged corruption charges.
 
 Placing herself squarely against the BJP, Mayawati said on Sunday that it was only BSP, not an SP-Congress combine, which could stop the saffron party from coming to power in UP in 2017, and thereby, dampen the BJP's prospects in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Mayawati said, “BSP's core vote base is not divided like that of SP. It's only the BSP which can stop BJP from coming to power.“ She slammed the BJP for targeting her brother Anand Kumar over money deposited in bank accounts, saying it showed the party's desperation to malign her. The BSP boss said while she was being targeted, many other big politicians had been spared by the BJP government.
 
 
