PANAJI: Despite talks of women empowerment and Goa displaying better human development indicators, the 2017 elections saw only two out of the 19 women candidates being elected to the legislative assembly. 

 MLAs Alina Saldanha (BJP) and Jennifer Monserrate (Congress) retained their Cortalim and Taleigao seats, respectively. While minister of science and technology, Saldanha won by a margin of 518 votes against independent candidate and ST leader Antonio Vas in Taleigao, Monserrate defeated BJP Taleigao mandal president Dattaprasad Naik by 2,855 votes, a higher margin than during the 2012 assembly election. AAP Taleigao candidate Cecille Rodrigues came in third with 1,979 votes.
 
 BJP’s sole woman candidate, Saldanha’s win came as a surprise to many. The party had taken away the forest portfolio from her following her opposition to projects that she said were detrimental to the environment. 
 
 The 19 candidates accounted for 7.5% of 252 candidates that contested the polls and were the highest number of women candidates to contest assembly elections in the state, since the 1960s. AAP fielded five, the only party that gave tickets to the most number of women candidates, while Congress had three.
 
 The state has been electing between one and two women candidates for the last five decades. 
 
 The years 1972 and 1980 didn’t see any woman being elected to the assembly. Only 1994 was a purple patch for women in Goa’s political history. That year saw four women being elected.
 
 Former chairperson of the South Goa Zilla Panchayat and four time ZP member, Nelly Rodrigues, who contested on the Goa Vikas Party (GVP) ticket from the Cortalim constituency, said it was difficult to fight the money and muscle power of men. She came in fourth in the constituency. The chemistry lecturer, who is also the president of Goa Panchayat Mahila Shakti Abhiyan, a body of elected representatives of the panchayati raj institutions, said it is not uncommon for those with little educational qualifications and also those involved in illegal activities to get tickets. 
 
 AAP Benaulim candidate, Royla Fernandes, who came in second after NCP’s Churchill Alemao, said people’s mindsets need to change. 
 
 “Many are still under the impression that it is the men who must lead the way, and that women only have to follow. This is no longer a trend,” she said, adding that though she came in second, she secured more votes than the sitting MLA Caetano Silva. 
 
 
