NAGPUR: When India played South Africa in their third Test here two years ago, skipper   was asked whether local boy   has any chance of getting into the game. Kohli just smiled and politely replied, “For us, team combination is important. We don’t think like that the local boys should play at their home ground. If somebody fits into the combination, he will play.”

 In their 80 years, Vidarbha has only produced three international cricketers — Prashant Vaidya, Umesh Yadav and Faiz Fazal. Only Umesh could become a regular in the Indian side for this long. However, he is yet to play an international game at his home ground in Nagpur.
 
 Umesh broke into the national side in 2011. Next year, when England toured he was in good form. In fact, he picked up crucial wickets in the Ahmedabad Test, which India won. His family, friends and fans were hoping to see him to don the Indian colours in Nagpur. However, he got injured. When Team India came here for One-Day Internationals in 2013, Yadav wasn’t part of the squad.
 
 Two years later, Umesh was part of the India Tests squad but didn’t get a game as India chose to go with only one pace bowler and three spinners. Umesh wasn’t included in the Indian squad for the Twenty20 World Cup in 2016 too. He was also not part of the Indian squad for Twenty20 against England earlier this year. India won the second T20 International in an exciting fashion.
 
 Now, Umesh stands a good chance of getting the game when India play their final One-Day International in Nagpur on Sunday. The 29-year-old has taken four wickets in the Bangalore One-Day International. India rested the pair of Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Jasprit Bumrah on Thursday. With the series done and dusted already, India might go ahead with a similar combination in Nagpur as well.
 
 “I hope he plays. It’s our dream to see him play at his home ground. I was hoping last time as well but this is something beyond our control. As a family, we would be delighted to see him play and win the match for India,” Umesh’s wife Tanya told TOI on Thursday.
 
 Tanya has seen Umesh play at Jamtha only once. It was during the Ranji Trophy game vs Odisha a couple of years ago. He scored a blazing century in that match. “If he plays, I will hope he gets a five-wicket haul,” she added.
 
 In his early days, Umesh idolized his brother Ramesh. In his interview to TOI before his Test debut, Umesh had said Ramesh was quicker than him. Ramesh is also keen to see his younger brother play on Sunday. “I have been waiting for that moment. It’s something nobody can be sure about. We can just hope to see him play against  . I will definitely go to support the team,” Ramesh said.
 
 Shailesh Thakare, Umesh's teammate from tennis ball days, and now his manager, is confident that Umesh will get the game. “I see no reason why can’t he play here this time. He has done well today. Had he not taken those wickets in the middle overs, Australia would have batted us out of the match. With this performance, I am sure he will get to play here,” Thakare said.
 
 The crowd would want to see India replicate their 2015 performance. However, they would also love to see the local boy contribute in an India win.
 
 
