NEW DELHI: Every second mobile phone   from central Delhi, especially around ITO, gets dismantled and   for spares in the grey markets of central, east and south Delhi. The rest are sold at half the price to foreigners and visitors looking for mobile   at railway stations and ISBTs.

 This startling information came to the fore after a special team formed to crack down on snatching incidents around Delhi Police headquarters recovered 120 stolen phones in the past four months and arrested three people for the crime.
 
 The four-member team led by a sub-inspector was formed after police commissioner Amulya Patnaik ordered a crackdown on snatchings in high-security zones.
 
 A study by the team shows that most snatchings take place between 10am and noon and 1pm and 7pm. Around 95% of the victims were pedestrians holding their phones in their hand. The team is also mapping the nature of snatchings across the city. DCP (central) Mandeep Singh Randhawa, who has been monitoring the anti-snatching squad, said that incidents of snatching have now gone down considerably.
 
 The team started with investigations into almost 2,000 stolen mobile phones in central Delhi. “The team was assigned the specific job of finding out whether any of the stolen mobile phones had come online. The user would then be tracked and raids would be conducted to recover the phones. We have busted many gangs operating in the area,” said Randhawa.
 
 Almost 50% of the stolen phones were recovered from markets in Seelampur and Usmanpur, followed by Nabi Karim and Karol Bagh.
 
 Recently, when police nabbed a youth for using a stolen mobile phone, they found that he had bought it from an e-commerce site after giving his phone in exchange. He also produced a bill given by the seller. On verification, the bill was found forged. The number from which the seller had contacted him was also switched off.
 
 The cops then posed as customers and asked the seller to meet them near Kamla Market after which he was arrested. The accused disclosed that he had taken the stolen mobile phone from his friend. He had sold several phones on the e-commerce site.
 
 Senior police officers said that   have started changing their modus operandi after the crackdown. They agree that monitoring e-commerce websites are difficult and they will not be able to track a stolen phone until someone starts using it. The team has been asked to keep an open eye on popular e-commerce sites for clues.
 
 
