Vadodara: The allocation of houses by Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) after its recent razing drive and its stance to relocate persons displaced from Kalyannagar has sparked a debate regarding ghettoization in minority pockets in the city.  The civic body, at the other end, believes that allocation of houses was being done only to ensure that the resettlement was a smooth process. The debate was sparked recently when Kalyannagar beneficiaries demanded that irrespective of the amount that the VMC has to spend on the housing project there, they should be accommodated at the site where their houses once stood. The VMC is finding the project unviable as it has already spent the amount equivalent of the entire project cost and work is still incomplete. The Kalyannagar residents were offered that they could be given houses at Tandalja, but they have so far not accepted the offer. “There is a clear attempt of ghettoization by giving residents of minority community houses only in minority pockets. Similar problems had taken place at Kalali, Sayajipura and Soma Talav earlier,” said activist Shaukat Indori. Indori pointed out that the administration had adopted a strict posture in Soma Talav housing scheme ensuring that minority residents were allowed to stay there. “But it is not doing so in all cases. Communities should be encouraged to stay together instead of segregating them based on religion,” he added. In another recent razing drive at a pond in the city, the residents of the same area were allocated houses in different housing schemes by the VMC based on their faith.  “This is not justified. If they can stay together in a slum, they can do so even at other places,” said municipal councillor Gulamfarid Lakhajiwala. VMC officials, however, hold that there was no attempt to prepare ghettos. “We just want that the resettlement should not fall prey to resistance as has been the case earlier. In the Kalyannagar case, the primary reason for the resistance to move to Tandalja is that people want to stay at the same location,” said an official.