GURUGRAM: Clearing the last hurdle before the long-delayed   (also known as the northern peripheral road or NPR), Punjab and Haryana   on Tuesday disposed the petition by Satyendra Singh, challenging rehabilitation of oustees with general power of attorney ( ), which had held up the project.

 The high court directed Huda to settle the claims of the petitioner as per the state government’s relocation and rehabilitation (R&R) policy, and if required, allot a ‘special’ package. “We’ll not release land as desired by the petitioner, but they (land owners) will be rehabilitated as per state policy,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav, adding the administration will prepare a proposal in this regard, and try to complete the rehabilitation of oustees by April 10.
 
 “Decks are cleared for completion of the Gurgaon portion of Dwarka expressway, as the high court disposed the petition regarding allotment of alternative plots to GPA oustees,” said Yadav.
 
 Satyendra Singh, whose land was acquired for developing Sector 110A to accommodate NPR oustees, had filed a petition before the high court in September 2016, alleging that NPR oustees with ownership rights have been denied alternative plots, while those with GPA and special power of attorney (SPA) holders have been allotted alternative plots.
 
 Taking cognisance of his complaint, the high court in October 2016 had put a stay order on the allotment, and directed Huda to submit all documents relating to allotment of plots to GPA and SPA holders, putting the completion of the road under a cloud.
 
 After several hearings and requests from Huda for an early resolution, the high court on March 16 had directed the petitioner to give his representation before Huda, with the latter directed to address the former's concern.
 
 Developers who have projects along the expressway welcomed the development. “The court order will speed up completion of the expressway, which will benefit large number of people who have invested in projects along the NPR,” said Ravish Kapoor, director, Elan Group.
 
 “We hope Huda will resolve the issue at earliest to complete the remaining portion of Dwarka expressway and benefit home buyers of projects along expressway,” said founder of Reckon Mind and homebuyer, Prakhar Sahay. He added that due to delay in completion of the road, home buyers are facing dual burden of rent and  . Around 568 oustees of the project, from New Palam Vihar and Kherki Daula, had applied for alternative plots, of which 212 oustees were found eligible for alternative plots as per the rehabilitation policy. 
 
 
