CHANDIGARH: With the organizational elections of the   round the corner, the whole league of the party’s senior leaders from the state is out holding regular shows of strength.

 At the stake is the post of Haryana Congress president. Though leaders deny it, party sources claim that the Congress high command has given a clear signal to all leaders to prove themselves again to lay claim on the coveted post. The party may revamp the organization in August or September, they say.
 
 While ex-CM   has been holding weekly ‘kisan panchayats’ for a while now, present Haryana Congress president Ashok Tanwar has started ‘pol khol’ campaign to target the BJP government in the state. Conrgess national chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala is also consolidating his base among the traders and entrepreneurs on the issue of Goods and   (GST).
 
 The most recent to join the race are   (CLP) leader   and former Union minister and Rajya Sabha MP Kumari Selja. Choudhry recently held a massive demonstration in Tosham assembly constituency on the issues of farmers and farm labourers, while Selja too has started reaching out to the party workers in her Ambala parliamentary constituency.
 
 On Saturday, Surjewala held a traders’ seminar in Safidon town of Jind district, while Hooda chaired a meeting of Dalits at his residence in New Delhi. The former CM will chair the ‘kisan panchayat’ in Yamunanangar on Sunday.
 
 Similarly, Selja will preside over the meet of entrepreneurs, traders and farmers in Panchkula and Tanwar will the chair the meeting of Dalits in Jind on Sunday.
 
 Even as all the top leaders are holding their own events simultaneously, they deny that there is any infighting. “Not just this month, Haryana Congress has been on the move for the past three years. So far, as organizational revamp is concerned, there is no such message from the high command to prove our worth. Everybody is working to strengthen the party in the state,” said Tanwar.
 
 Haryana Congress spokesperson Ran Singh Mann said, “People want the Congress to return to power. In fact, failure of the BJP government in Haryana has forced people to change their mind. During kisan panchayats, farmers and labourers are raising their issues. We are working for our party. As all senior leaders are holding separate meetings, it will also strengthen the organization overall.”
 
