KOCHI: In an attempt to address the growing safety concerns among parents whose kids travel on school buses, CBSE has issued a new circular reiterating their guidelines for operating school buses. Violation of these guidelines could lead to disaffiliation of the school from the central board of secondary education.

 The circular states that `the management and the head of the CBSE affiliated school will be held responsible for any lapse' in safety standards concerning the school transportation system and it could lead to `disaffiliation of the school as per provisions under the affiliation bylaws'.
 
 Earlier this month, a special operation by the police identified that 36 school bus drivers had arrived drunk for work, raising concerns regarding the safety of students who travel on school buses.
 
 The circular was sent with 5-sheet long annexure, which repeated some of the CBSE's existing guidelines and also added a few new ones.
 
 As per the guidelines, school busses must be facilitated with CCTV cameras and GPS systems which must be kept in working condition at all times.
 
 Schools in the city are currently having qualms about the expenses that these upgradations would entail. “Adding CCTV and GPS systems to the school buses immediately would result in the sudden hike in transportation fees when adds the maintenance charges, which would result in people opting out of the school bus service,“ said   principal Father Antony M.
 
 He said that his school was currently adding   at a gradual pace without hiking the transportation fee. He expects to finish the exercise within the next two years. “One of our school buses has a CCTV camera. It cost me nearly Rs 25, 000,“ said Father Antony.
 
 Guidelines also state that the school will have to employ two more employees for each bus apart from the bus driver. Each bus must have a conductor with a valid driving licence and a female helper. The guidelines also suggest that school bus must maintain its speeds below 40kmh.
 
 “I do not understand the need for a conductor. Currently, there are two people involved in manning a school bus, an appropriately qualified driver and a helper. This system works fine. An additional conductor does not make sense on a school bus,“ said Indira Rajan, general secretary of  ' Management Association.
 
 As the current academic year is about to conclude, she said that the necessary changes will be implemented to ensure the safety of the students in next academic year.
 
