NEW DELHI: After changing rules for appointing bureaucrats to prioritise their “integrity”, the government has now revised the rules for appointing chief   in central public sector enterprises and organisations under central ministries and departments, limiting individual ministers’ say in the matter and fast tracking their appointments.
 
  Chief vigilance officers ( ) in such entities will now be selected “following the   (CSB) procedure”, the department of personnel and training (DoPT) has said in a note. For deputy secretary and director level posts, orders for appointment will be issued by the EO with the approval of the minister of state for personnel, public grievances & pensions, said the note issued by DoPT.
  
  For joint secretary level posts, the same procedure will be followed as is being followed for appointments of joint secretaries under the Central Staffing Scheme, it said. So long, the power of appointing vigilance officers — who play an important role in checking corruption in ministries, departments and central public sector enterprises ( ) — was with ministers.
  
  
 
  
  The new procedure is expected to reduce lobbying for such positions and limit the role of ministers and their close associates in these appointments. “Earlier the vigilance officers could be appointed easily with ministerial intervention but not anymore,” a senior official in the government told ET.
  
  Vigilance officers in departments and central ministries are responsible for probing vigilance irregularities in their respective departments and have to review and take action expeditiously on departmental probes pending with inquiry officers. CVOs of banks, insurance companies and other government departments also have to review investigation reports on complaints sought by the Central Vigilance Commission ( ).
  
  The rule change will ensure that only people with a “clean and corruption free record” are chosen as CVOs, a top government official said. The Narendra Modi-led government in the past one year has put in place a new evaluation system for bureaucrats, called the 360 degree evaluation, which has a committee of retired bureaucrats assessing officials on seven factors, including integrity, reputation, hard work, and competence. Here, too, the integrity of the bureaucrat, carefully gauged after multiple layers of evaluation, is considered the most important.
  
  The same will now be considered for the empanelment of vigilance officers, officials said. The   also said that once cleared by CVC, such officers will be retained on “CVO offer list” for appointment.
  
  Vigilance officers are important in maintaining probity and integrity in a department or organisation. They need to be objective and impartial in their dealings, and should be resistant to requests from politicians, said one of the officials cited earlier. 
