NEW DELHI/LUCKNOW: The   claimed to have busted an illegal telephone exchange and spying racket on Wednesday with the arrest of a software engineer from Mehrauli in south Delhi and 10 others from NCR, Lucknow and other parts of UP. The “exchanges“ were not only making lakhs of rupees by routing international calls, bypassing legal gateways, they were being used by Pakistan's   (ISI) to call Army officials and elicit information from them.

 The mastermind, engineer Gulshan Kumar Sain, worked with the Punjabi Bagh unit of a leading engineering coaching centre. He also conducted tuition classes for IIT aspirants. On arrest, Sain told cops he had been making around Rs 1 lakh a month from the parallel exchanges that had been operating for a year. Sources said the racket was busted after the defence ministry and Army alerted the military intelligence unit in J&K about some of its officers receiving suspicious calls from “seniors“ who sought information on their unit, deployment, strength and possible movement.
 
 Some of these officers, it was found, shared the information unsuspectingly since the numbers from which these calls were made were strikingly similar to the actual phone numbers of their seniors. One of the officers, however, smelled a rat and alerted his seniors. Soon, it emerged that several officers in Jammu and Kashmir and elsewhere had received such calls.
 
 Intelligence officials unearthed the racket after a fortnight of extensive investigations and found that the illegal network was using techniques like call spoofing and SIM box fraud to carry out their spying activities.The callers, based in Pakistan and Bangladesh, made calls over internet on the parallel exchanges. These calls were converted to voice calls through the SIM box and connected to receivers in India.However, receivers could only see Indian numbers on their phone screens. This also threw off agencies tracking suspicious calls.
 
 Two dozen numbers belonging to UP and Delhi were traced and the UP police's ATS was asked to initiate a crackdown. After tracing the network for two months, ATS finally carried out a 12-hour long operation on Tuesday night. Simultaneous raids led by IG   were conducted at three places and 11 suspects arrested. They have been charged under IPC sections related to waging war against the nation, fraud and cheating and under the Telegraph Act. Sain belongs to Sikar in Rajasthan. He got a company,  , registered in the name of his father, Matadeen. Sain claimed to have taken a licence for making wireless products. He also began to provide internet services and was executing the con job in the garb of an ISP.With the illegal exchanges, he managed to make substantial money as he did not have to pay the termination charge of 53 paise per minute per call or any taxes.
 
 Police have recovered 16 SIM box units, 140 prepaid SIM cards, 10 mobile phones, 28 data cards and five laptops from the accused. A probe has been initiated to ascertain if the arrested men were acting at ISI's behest or were unaware of the identity of the callers.
 
