MADURAI: Dissatisfied at the slow pace of work undertaken to remove   (seemai karuvelam) trees, judges of the Madurai bench of the Madras high court have not only warned of severe action, but also said that surprise inspections would be carried out regularly by them in all districts.

 The judges – Justice A Selvam and  , said this, after undertaking a rare surprise inspection in Madurai on Monday, where work was on for the removal of the juliflora trees.
 
 Juliflora trees sucks lot of water, invade into water bodies and drying up government and private properties. Due to this, a batch of cases was filed before the Madurai bench which on February 10 ordered their removal across Tamil Nadu. Accordingly, the authorities concerned in the districts are taking steps in that regard. 
 
 On Monday, Madurai collector   explained to the high court bench’s administrative judge A Selvam in his chamber about the task being carried out in the district. But, the judge wanted to inspect the places. 
 
 Accordingly, the judge along with other judge N Kiurbakaran carried out inspections in many places. The officials of corporation, revenue and rural development were also present.
 
 Near   area, when the officials tried to divert the judges in order to visit places where the trees were mostly removed, the judges said they were not going to visit places shown by the officials. 
 
 Accordingly, the judges then visited places including Anthneri kanmoi, Appanthirupathi, Kallandhiri, Azhagapuri, Azhagarkoil, Kidaripatti, A Vellalapatti, Melur and Pandikoil four-way road (behind the high court bench campus) by travelling more than 60 km.
 
 The inspections made them realise the poor execution of removal work. In Melur, not even a single juliflora tree was cut down. Then, the judges told the officials that they were not satisfied over the officials’ work. 
 
 The trees are very dangerous to mankind as well as the nation. What is the necessity for the judges to come over to the sites, when they can sit in their air-conditioned rooms? They want to do good to the society. The officials’ action in the removal of the trees is the real service to the nation. Instead of looking at it just as official work, authorities have to see it as social service, the judges said. 
 
 They further said if the court order to remove those trees is not complied with strictly, the court will take severe action, and that the judges themselves will take surprise inspections statewide. 
 
 Following it, the collector assured that the trees will be completely eradicated in the next two weeks. And, the trees on private lands will be removed by the authorities which will later collect the charges under the Revenue Recovery Act, he said.
 
