MUMBAI: It was the   of her life, one that   managed to win thanks to her sheer  . The 8-year-old brown mare's determination melted the heart of a veterinary doctor, who was just seconds away from putting her down with a lethal dose of injection. Having cheated death, today she is the proud mother of a handsome colt who was picked at the annu al thoroughbred sales organised by the Royal Western India Turf Club (RWITC) at Pune last month.

 On that fateful day on September 15, 2013, Shabdeez was a 15 to 1 long shot in the field of ten at the Pune racecourse. Alt hough she was striding well close to home, another contestant suddenly stumbled and fell in front of her. Shabdeez jumped over, breaking her shoulder blade and turning lame. We immediately gave her painkillers and took her to the equine hospital inside the racecourse for a scan,“ former RWITC senior vet Anil Kumar told TOI. The scan revealed that her shoulder blade (scapula) was badly fractured. “We normally euthanize horses with such conditions because the chances of their recovery and survival are minimal. The few that pull through develop laminitis apart from other complications which again prove fatal,“ said Dr Kumar, who now practises independently and is considered to be one of the best in his profession. “It was a painful decision but I had no option but to give my consent to euthanize her,“ said Asad Siddiqui, owner of Shabdeez who also trained her.
 
 Before putting the mare down, Ku mar was about to sedate her when another veterinary exigency drew him away .When he returned, over an hour later, the vet was in for a surprise. “I was shocked to see that Shabdeez was unusually calm and was even trying to rest her injured leg on the ground and put some weight onto her toes. Usually , in such a condition, horses become aggressive despite the painkillers. They start trembling and avoid putting their injured leg down. But there was something in this mare which I cannot explain in words. It was clear to me that she was not going to give up this fight for life easily,“ Kumar told TOI. Taken by Shabdeez's resolve, Kumar deferred his plan to euthanize her and decided to wait until next morning. “The condition of horses with such fatal injuries can worsen anytime, even a couple of days later. But she was fighting for survival, so I decided to give her some time,“ he added. Kumar's joy knew no bounds when he observed Shabdeez making miraculous progress. “We had kept soft pads under her injured feet. She started resting her leg on the ground and even started eating her regular quantum of feed.“ As the racing season was nearing its end, other horses were being shifted to Mumbai but Kumar decided to keep Shabdeez at Pune's equine hospital. “We kept her as an in-patient. She was fomented regularly apart from being given medication,“ he said.
 
 A month later, Shabdeez returned to Siddiqui's yard. “I told Asad that she was fine and would improve gradually . Since her racing career was over, I informed him that she would be ready for her breeding duties since during the mating process, it's the pelvis and hind leg muscles which bear the weight of a stallion.“
 
 Soon Shabdeez was sent to Pratap Stud in Gujarat where she mated with Oath, an Irish stallion. On April 13, 2015, she gave birth to her first foal, a playful chestnut colt.
 
