NAGPUR: In a respite to women tuberculosis patients, the state government has decided to renovate the women ward of   (GMCH)   which was non-functional since four years for want of repairs.

 In a government resolution dated May 5, the government has given administrative approval for renovation of TB Hospital’s ward 42, which is the women ward. Rs 46 lakh has been sanctioned for the work.
 
 The TB Hospital, with the 20-bed women ward, is already in a bad shape. During 2012, the female ward had to be closed for repair work, and it has remained shut ever since.
 
 The TB Hospital runs under the pulmonary medicine department. Department head Dr   said, “Every day, two or three female patients have to be admitted here. In the absence of the women ward, we initially would admit them in the male ward. We then started referring such patients to   and Hospital (IGGMCH).”
 
 Dr Ghorpade said, “Later, even IGGMCH authorities wrote to us saying that they are unable to cater to such a large number of TB patients. At times, we also have to keep female patients at Multi Drug Resistant TB ward, but this is not the solution.”
 
 An official from the department said, “It’s unfortunate that at times, some female patients have to discontinue the treatment as they cannot afford a private hospital. The treatment takes at least 15 days.”
 
 During January 2016, the department had sent a proposal for reconstruction of the entire department. No decision has been taken in that regard. In March 2017, a proposal was also sent to the central government regarding establishing a lung institute on the TB Hospital premises. City MP and Union minister of road transport and highways,  , is said to be backing the project. According to the proposed plan, the existing TB Hospital will be dismantled, and the proposed lung institute that will be set up on the same land will consist of a TB centre.
 
 The official said, “Confusion prevails as why the state government took up renovation work of a hospital built during the British era, when the plan is to incorporate the hospital within the lung institute.”
 
