NAGPUR: Government should produce a movie on the life and works of Rashtrasant   Maharaj so that his philosophy of ensuring harmony and brotherhood in society could be taken to the last man, said Prakash Ambedkar, president of  , on Thursday.

 Addressing a press conference organized by   at Ravi Bhavan as part of the birth anniversary of Tukdoji Maharaj, Ambedkar said that today the country needed enhanced coordination and cooperation among masses which the Tukdoji propagated throughout his life.
 
 “There are instances of efforts being made to impose views of a particular section of the society on others which are causing problems,” he said.
 
 “Gap between communities seems to be increasing for which corrective measures are required to be taken. The philosophy of Tukdoji Maharaj can serve the purpose of promoting brotherhood and resolving disputes, if any,” Ambedkar said.
 
 People should learn to live together in an harmonious atmosphere, he added.
 
 Sant Gadge Baba started ‘gram swachhata abhiyan’ decades ago to which people responded positively. The cinematic presentation of Gadge Baba’s contribution to society was well-received with actor   in the lead role. 
 
 “Tukdoji Maharaj made concerted efforts to unite different sections of the society. If a movie is made on the works of the great reformer, it will have a wider reach and deep impact on the way people think. This, in turn, will help control differing voices,” Ambedkar said. 
 
 Cultures can be different, but inculcating in people a sense of humanity on a broader scale can make the society strong and stand on a solid foundation, he added. Such an endeavour can achieve the objective of bringing communities together, he added.
 
 Shri Gurudev Seva Mandal demanded institution of ‘Karmayogi Tukaramdada Geetacharya Gaon Ganrajya Puraskar’, to be given to an ideal village every year.
 
  Acharya   said that ‘sarvadharma prarthana’ written by Tukdoji Maharaj should be taught to every one as it prays for humanity in the world. 
 
 Javed Pasha said that the works of Tukdoji Maharaj for a national cause should be included in the curriculum of Indian education system so that students could be taught about humanity and brotherhood.
 
 Present at the press conference were Gajanan Kakad, Jagan Wanjari and others.
 
