Though he did his PhD in  , his core interest has always been in   — an issue dumped in the backyard by the authorities.  , director of National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri), has been working in this neglected field for more than 20 years now. He has helped urban local bodies of Mumbai, Thane, Pune, New Delhi, some cities of Rajasthan, and smaller places like Matheran and Ambarnath in managing their waste and dumpyards.

 Kumar has received nine awards for his contributions in environmental science and engineering, prominent ones being Commonwealth Commission Award, UK, in 1994 and Environment Leadership Award in 2005 for improving the quality of life for population of Asia. In 2012, he was given an award for the largest number of technology transfer for low cost waste water treatment-Phytorid.
 
 In an exclusive with TOI, Kumar talks about how solid waste management continues to be a major challenge faced by the country and where Nagpur stands in taking care of its waste.
 
 Excerpts from the interview...
 
 
 
 A. In the last 30 years or so, the quantity of solid waste has increased, especially of organic. Most of it consists of food waste. Traditional habits like giving away leftover food are long gone. While earlier the dumping sites would be mostly filled with inert, today they have large quantities of biodegradable waste that gives rise to leachate, foul odour and rodents.
 
 
 
 A. On the positive side, most part of the city is well-connected in terms of collection of waste. The system of collection is better than other cities. The main problem lies at the disposal site. The landfill is overburdened. Localities have come up very close to the dump yard, making residents the victims of pollution.
 
 
 
 
 A. Bhandewadi needs to be redeemed. Though the garbage is overflowing, space can be created through modern techniques. Bio-mining seems to be the best option and NMC is going for that. But that will not solve the problem permanently. While NMC is incorporating these techniques at Bhandewadi, it should simultaneously look for an alternate site.
 
 
 
 
 A. Most importantly, the site should be away from residential areas, forest, river and heritage structures. The site needs to be developed in an ultra-modern way so that even if residential colonies are set-up nearby, people do not suffer. This will only happen when only inert goes to the dumping site.
 
 
 
 
 A. At Bhandewadi, the waste is spread over and this makes the maintenance a tough task. ‘Cell-by-cell’ method should be followed in which compartments are made and inert is dumped in one cell at a time. After that cell gets filled, dumping begins in another cell. This way, a small area has to be monitored rather than the entire site.
 
 
 
 A. Converting waste into energy is a good option. But that alone will not solve the problem. Every single step — right from collection, transportation, segregation and treatment of waste has to be done correctly. Segregation should be the next step right after collection. Plastic and thermacol should go to the recycling plant, items like clothes and jute should be used to produce refuse-derived fuel, sand and soil for making bricks. E-waste should not go to the site at all. From the lowest to the highest category of waste, everything has to be dealt with.
 
 
 
 
 A. The dump yard should be fenced and have a full-time security to avoid entry of ragpickers. Methane gas is the main source of fire and thus it should be collected. Bio-filters should be installed for pollution control.
 
 
 
 A. It would be hard to identify one which has every aspect in place. But many smaller countries are implementing end-to-end solutions. Here, we tend to put everything on the private agency. But there needs to be a good hand-holding among corporation and the agency. The final responsibility has to be of the corporation.
 
 
