THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The disbursement of salary and pensions through government treasuries on the first day was smooth though the   (RBI) could provide only Rs 177 crore against the state government's demand of Rs 270.5 crore. The first day of the salary disbursement through treasuries was possible due to existing fund balance and revenue collection. As per the reports received from all treasuries, Rs 206.4 crore was disbursed on the first day. 

 Though the state government sought Rs 1,391 crore the disbursement of salaries and pensions through treasuries, RBI has assured to provide only Rs 600 crore. Hence, the finance department has requested RBI to provide adequate funds in the coming days as there will be more rush to obtain cash.
 
 The finance department is anticipating a crisis if RBI fails to provide adequate cash. Even though it is estimated that the complete disbursement of salaries and pensions can be completed in seven days, there will be crisis if people who have withdrawn Rs 24,000 in the first week return and withdraw cash the very next week. If there is no adequate cash in treasuries, then these withdrawals will be affected, said a statement issued by the office of the finance minister.
 
 The disbursement of money began only after 12pm at several treasuries on Tuesday since the banks could clear the bills by 11am. 
 
 At many treasuries, the disbursement commenced only after 2pm. In 115 treasuries there were technical snags due to software upgradation and this caused a delay.
 
 These treasuries could manage the crisis since there was adequate fund balance from the previous month. The treasury at Mallappally in Pathanamthitta could not disburse salaries and pensions. The treasury director has assured that the process will resume on Wednesday morning.
 
 Meanwhile, finance minister   has asked the Centre to come out with a package similar to the one announced during recession to help states since most state governments are facing severe financial crisis due to the demonetisation move.
 
 
