NAGPUR:   Nitin Gadkari has ordered an inquiry into the   being constructed in the city. Activists of social organization  , under the leadership of president Anil Kilor, had met Gadkari on Monday and apprised him of the results of their road audit. The minister has directed municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal to conduct an in-depth probe.

 Jan Manch has done a public audit of three roads so far. On May 1, the activists inspected the quality of West High Court (WHC) Road between Law College Square and Ladies Club Square. On May 18, they checked the Great Nag Road between Reshimbagh Square and Old Shukrawari Square. On May 20, they did an audit of public works department’s Ring Road between Pratap Nagar Square and Khamla Square.
 
 Kilor and Jan Manch vice-president Amitabh Pawde told Gadkari that the quality of road construction was poor. The fine aggregate comprising cement, sand and fly-ash had come loose at many spots and the coarse aggregate consisting of gravel had been exposed. Most of the cement roads were at a higher level than the doorstep of the houses and during monsoons water would enter the homes of people living on ground floor. 
 
 “We told Gadkari that NMC must clear the storm water drains immediately, otherwise it will create havoc during rains. The minister assured to issue directions in this regard,” Kilor told the media.
 
 Kilor and Pawde also pointed out the poor quality of cement blocks used in road dividers. They also said that the paver blocks used by NMC and PWD were not strong.
 
 The social activists complained to the Nagpur MP about the non-cooperation by PWD officials. “We had urged executive engineer Naresh Wadetwar to send his representative during our public audit. However, he refused to comply. Later, a number of flaws were found in the road constructed by him,” said Pramod Pande.
 
 Sharad Patil and Prakash Itankar said that the Manch did not support any political party. “We are doing the cement road audit just to stop waste of public money. We approached Gadkari as he is our elected representative and people of Nagpur have great expectations from him,” they added.
 
