NAGPUR: The fourth edition of   will open on February 23 with a flute performance by  . On February 24 there will be a vocal recital by Pt Uday Bhawalkar, an internationally acclaimed Dhrupad singer, followed by another vocal recital by Pt Ulhas Kashalkar, who blends the styles of Gwalior, Agra and Jaipur gharana.

 To be staged for the first time in the city will be Mahesh Elkunchwar’s Marathi play ‘Magna Talyakathi’ directed by Chandrakant Kulkarni. The organizers of the 2017 edition have decided to hold a lucky draw to give away entry passes to audience for the play. “From February 19 to 22 every day the coupons for lucky draw will be available at Vasantrao  . Each coupon permits entry for two and only one coupon will be given per person,” informed Dr Manjusha Mardikar, one of the organizers of the festival. 
 
 “The lucky draw will be held at 1pm on February 22 and entry passes bearing the seat numbers will be given to those whose names are picked during the draw,” Dr Mardikar said. The organizers will be giving 350 entry passes which would admit 700 persons. The rest of the seats shall be reserved for special invitees, she informed the press. There is free access to all other events.
 
 There will be two sessions for events to be held on February 26. The morning session at Kavi Kulguru Kalidas auditorium of Persistent Systems Ltd IT Park will have screening of a documentary based on the life and works of Mahesh Elkunchwar titled ‘Chirebandi’. This will be followed by a dialogue between the documentary maker Mohit Takalkar and Chandrakant Kulkarni. The evening session will begin with a sarod recital by Debasmita Bhattacharya and the festival will conclude with a Kathak dance performance by Sharvari Jamenis.
 
 Events galore
 
 Feb 23: Flute recital by Pt Ronu Mazumdar at Deshpande Hall | 7pm
 
 Feb 24: Vocal presentation by Dhrupad exponent Pt Uday Bhawalkar at Deshpande Hall, followed by Hindustani classical vocal presentation by Pt Ulhas Kashalkar | 6pm 
 
 Feb 25: Marathi play Magna Talyakathi, Deshpande Hall | 6pm
 
 Feb 26: Screening of a documentary ‘Chirebandi’ by Mohit Takalkar, Kavi Kulguru Kalidas Auditorium, Persistent Systems | 11am 
 
 Sarod recital by Debasmita Bhattacharya, Kathak dance performance by Sharvari Jamenis at Balaji temple,   | 6pm
 
