Parking has always been a thorn in the flesh for Noida. With the number of cars increasing in the city and parking spaces staying constant, authorities have had to come up with innovative solutions to the problem, including allowing   in several areas. Since 2013,   has allowed roadside parking in 53 areas across the city, including Sectors 18, 50, 62, 26, and Film City. However, with complaints of traffic congestion due to roadside parking and contractors encroaching on the road, the Authority is now planning to cancel permits for all roadside parking lots in the city.

 Deepak Agarwal, CEO, Noida Authority, says, "Our ACEO is looking into the matter. He will take a legal view on the issue, and take action accordingly. Our objective is to ensure the smooth flow of traffic for commuters." Officials from the Authority say that if there are no legal obstacles, roadside parking could be a thing of the past by next month. But motorists in the city are divided about the move. While some are happy that it will ease the flow of traffic, many say that in the absence of alternative arrangements, it will aggravate the parking issue in the city.
 
  inspector, Dharmendra Yadav, says, "It’s natural that wherever you have roadside parking, it encroaches upon the area for drivers and pedestrians, thereby leading to jams. In areas like Sector 50, Atta Market and opposite Mosaic Hotel in Sector 18, this problem is at its peak. But till the time multilevel parkings are made operational, we don’t have an option. At our end, we try and make sure that drivers and contractors do not cause inconvenience to other motorists. If cars are parked outside the specified parking area on the roadside, we even tow them away."
 
  
  
 
 
 Some residents welcome the move saying this will lead to less traffic congestion on the roads and encroachment will also reduce. Rakshit Jain, a software engineer from Sector 26, says, "This will help the flow of traffic in busy areas. If you have been to Sector 18, of late, you would know that there is hardly any place to drive or even walk there, because half the road is taken by parked cars. The contractors, in a bid to get as many cars as possible, often make the cars park in two rows, further encroaching upon the road. The roads are meant for moving vehicles, and not for parked cars."
 
 AK Singh, a teacher from Indirapuram, says, "In several places, like Sector 18 and Sector 62, contractors park the cars in front of bus shelters and on pavements. That is encroachment of public spaces. Cars need to be in the parking lot, and not on footpaths. Let’s keep that for pedestrians only."
 
 
 
 However, many motorists feel that in the absence of sufficient parking spaces in the city, doing away with the existing ones is foolhardy. Rajesh Ahuja, who works in Film City, says, "Most offices in Noida don’t have adequate parking space, which is why many of us park on the roadside outside the office. Thankfully, till now, that is regularised by the Authority. But, if that is made illegal, where would I park my car? There isn’t enough space. It would lead to further mess."
 
 Aarti Singh, a resident of Sector 50, adds, “I am all for doing away with roadside parking but only, if the authorities come up with an alternative. If you ban Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes overnight, and not make arrangements for the new Rs 2,000 notes, then you get massive queues at ATMs and banks. The same logic applies here. People will still need space to park, and they will do so on the roadside only.”
 
 
 Many feel that roadside parking is a very convenient option, and the need of the hour is to regularise it strictly instead of doing away with it.  , a student who lives in Sector 62, says, "Roadside parking means that your vehicle is always quite close to your destination, be it your office or in a market. The walking part is minimized. But if you centralise parking in big multilevel parkings, the last mile connectivity will go. One would have to park their car at one such parking, and then probably take a rickshaw to their office or college, some 2km away."
 
 Nishant Kaushik, an advertising professional who works in Sector 18, says, "There are problems with roadside parking, but those can be fixed with strict monitoring. Police and officials can impose fines on contractors who encroach or park the cars in a disorderly fashion. Thousands of cars are parked in these roadside parkings everyday. Where will they go?"
 
