LUDHIANA: Having already fought some tough rivals, big shots fighting assembly elections from constituencies in Ludhiana may face some challenge from their namesakes too, who are in the fray as independent candidates.

 Twelve candidates with similar names are fighting the elections from Ludhiana this time.
 
 Among others, namesakes of SAD candidates Manpreet Ayali and   Shivalik; BJP candidate Parveen Bansal; and Congress candidates   and Rakesh Pandey have filed nomination papers.
 
 Though the Election Commission has already announced that pictures of candidates will appear on ballot papers along with their symbols, voters will have to remain cautious while choosing their candidate.
 
 BJP candidate Parveen Bansal, who is contesting polls from Ludhiana North constituency, has his namesake Parveen Kumar, better known as Parveen Dang, fighting as independent candidate. While Bansal is a graduate and runs his business, Kumar is a matriculate and has a marriage bureau. Kumar has raised issues like fee hike in private schools and dengue deaths.
 
 Congress candidate from Ludhiana North constituency Rakesh Pandey too has a namesake in opponents' list.Rakesh Jain, 31, has filed nominations as an independent candidate who is a matriculate and owns an business. Rakesh Pandey has a similar profile. He is also a matriculate and a businessman. SAD and Congress candidates from Gill constituency also have to fight their namesakes. Darshan Singh Shivalik, 61, from SAD has a namesake Darshan Singh, 57-yearold resident who has filed pa pers as independent candidate. While Shivalik is a matriculate, his namesake has studied till Class VI.
 
 Similarly, retired IAS officer and Congress candidate from Gill constituency Kuldeep Singh Vaid has a name sake Kuldeep Singh who is contesting as independent candidate. The independent candidate is 26 years old and is unemployed. He has not even mentioned his qualification in the nomination papers.
 
 SAD candidate from Dakha Manpreet Singh Ayali has a namesake in the list of candidates from this constituency .Manpreet Singh, 37, is a businessman and his qualification is matriculation. Candidates from bigger parties say their opponents field namesakes to create confusion, but most voters were aware of it and such a move won't affect their vote bank. “This candidate had written his name  , but he shortened it to Manpreet Singh only when objection was raised. It is not going to have any impact on my votes because I have worked hard in my constituency and people will vote for me for my works and not for my name,“ Ayali said.
 
 Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Congress candidate from Gill, said, “I am sure my opponents have fielded my namesake in the elections just to confuse voters. But it seems they don't know that this time pictures of the candidates will also appear on the ballot paper. It will not affect voters at all,“ he said. Independent candidates, however, said they were genuinely contesting the elections with an objective to win and serve their constituency .
 
 Parveen Dang, independent candidate from Ludhiana North, said, “People will vote on the basis of works I have done for society. Leaders from the recognized parties move out and meet people only at the time of elections, but I have remained in public for many years. So people will vote after judging the candidates on the basis of their works,“ he said.
 
 An independent candidate from Gill, Kuldeep Singh, said he was contesting elections as he was fed up with corruption. Another independent, Darshan Singh, said he was meeting people from door to door and he was not bothered about candidates from recognized political parties. The real power, he said, was in the hands of voters who would elect their candidates.
 
 Won't confuse voters: Officials
 
 Ludhiana district administration officials said namesake candidates would not confuse the voters this time. “The Election Commission has introduced pasting of photos of candidates on the ballot paper along with their election symbols on the EVMs to avoid confusion among voters. A voter will first check the candidate's photo and then cast vote,“ said district electoral officercum-DC Ravi Bhagat.
 
