HYDERABAD: With   at certain 'critical' points, high walls complete with electric fencing and strict 'mulaqaat' timings, the  , Chanchalguda, may seem impossible to break out of. But after jail breaks reported from Bhopal and Nabha (Punjab), senior prison officials in Telangana are concerned about security in the state's prisons.

 Adding to their concerns is another incident, this time closer home in Warangal, wherein two prisoners escaped by using bed sheets to cross over the prison wall, around November last year. CCTV cameras at the jail stopped working several years ago.
 
 Chanchalguda Jail, which lodges several high-security prisoners, including alleged ISIS operatives arrested by the   (NIA), has only a few CCTV cameras. Sources say these are just not enough to keep 24-hour surveillance on all inmates. “Most certainly we need electronic gadgets with the latest technology to strengthen security. We have already written to the government on these needs,“ said director general of prisons, V K Singh.
 
 Apart from  , Chanchalguda, until recently , housed those accused of being involved in the deadly  .The twin blasts left 17 dead and 131 people injured. The convicts have now been shifted to other jails in the country. Another group comprising those suspected of being associated with terror-related activities, is also lodged in the same facility.
 
 Sources indicate that Chanchalguda currently has close to 10 high-security prisoners. While previously, such prisoners were lodged at the Cherlapalli Central Prison ­ it is here that Yasin Bhatkal, prime accused in the Dilsukhnagar blast case was also lodged ­ they were shifted to Chanchalguda facility ear lier last year. This, after a new high security block was constructed at Chanchalguda.
 
 But despite the strict surveillance already in place, including huge gates that deter inmates from even mulling an escape plan, sources say that more attention needs to be paid to the security arrangement at the jail. While the Telangana government, in 2016, allocated a sizable budget of Rs 11 crore for beefing up security at jails, the amount has not been released yet. Officials say there is a need for handheld and door frame metal detec tors and more CCTV cameras.
 
 “Another area that needs immediate attention is staff shortage in the prisons department. In this particular jail alone, nearly 25 vacancies for jawans are waiting to be filled,“ said a source.
 
