Madurai: Rapping the state health secretary J Radhakrishnan for having bypassed rules and ignored court rulings, Madras high court has ordered that seniormost government doctor and Karur government medical college dean S Revathy be immediately be promoted and posted as director of medical education of Tamil Nadu. 

 Justice R Mahadevan, allowing the upright doctor’s plea, said: “This court, prima facie, is of the view that the division bench’s directions, it gave on November 9, 2016 relating to the case, have not all been adhered to by the health secretary (J Radhakrishnan) strictly in accordance with the law, as the health secretary has given a go-by to the same while considering Edwin Joe for the promotion to the post of DME.”
 
 A perusal of earlier panel drawn by the then DME S Geethalakshmi for promotion contained four names and it is clear that Revathy was already considered the seniormost civil medical list candidate, said the judge.
 
 “However, the health secretary failed to consider her seniority and made a positive recommendation to Edwin Joe who has been accordingly appointed as DME, which, in the eve of law, is untenable. Thus the impugned government orders require to be interfered with by the court. Accordingly, the orders are quashed and the health secretary is directed to grant promotion to Revathy with all consequential benefits,” said Justice Mahadevan.
 
 He said the health secretary was under a statutory obligation to draw a panel for the appointment of DME and consider the shortlisted candidates, strictly in accordance with Tamil Nadu Medical Service Rules. It also said it hoped and trust that such exercise was to be done in a fair and transparent manner.
 
 During arguments, petitioner’s counsel S Alagarsamy said a division bench had on November 9 said, “right from the start, a positive proposal has been made in favour of Vimala and though Revathy is more meritorious candidate, her claim has been unjustly overlooked. The principal secretaries of health and family welfare and personnel and administrative reforms departments have accepted the said proposal and so also the chief secretary, health and family welfare minister and chief minister,” counsel said.
 
 Seeking the promotional post, Revathy started sending representations to the government from March 2016. As her efforts went futile, she filed a case before the high court bench on April 4. The court dismissed it on September 1, 2016. Against it, she preferred appeal. The division bench gave judgment on November 9. Even thereafter, she was deprived of her promotion. It led her to file the present case in June this year.
 
 
