Noida: GB Nagar   B N Singh on Friday asked schools in the district not to issue transfer certificates ( ) to any student whose parents have not paid the fees.

 After getting an unsatisfactory response from most of the schools facing complaints even as two of the 26 schools failed to even reply, the fee hike issue seems to be getting lost in meetings as the schools have been given one more week to amend their replies in keeping with their own request.
 
 TOI had reported on July 5 that 21 out of the total 26 schools had not submitted the fee details of the last three years as required by the district inspector of schools (DIOS) while two had not sent their replies to the complaints at all. Only three schools had shared their fee details.
 
 In a meeting held with the principals of the schools on Thursday, Singh said that a comprehensive report on the issue will be sent to the state government “after one week”.
 
  
  
 
 
 “Some of the schools which have not submitted the details as required have been given a week’s time. Some other schools are not happy with their own replies and they want to re-examine them,” Singh told TOI.
 
 A statement from the district magistrate’s office said that these schools have also been asked to submit the details within one week, failing which the matter would be reported to the state government.
 
 Meanwhile, disgruntled with the administrations’ stand, the parents have said that they will not deposit the hiked fee to be paid in the second quarter in July. Vineeta Aditya, a parent whose child studies in a private school in Sector 40, said, “We were told that schools’ replies to our complaints will be sought in 10 days. That was on May 5 and it is July 7 now. The last date for the second quarter fee submission is between July 10 and 15. Between the school managements and the administration, it is the parents who are getting sandwiched.”
 
 She said that it seems the administration has no control over the schools. “We need answers from the DM, state education minister and CM   on this,” Aditya said.
 
 The previous DM, N P Singh, who had ordered that a committee be formed in all the private schools of GB Nagar consisting of a parent representative; a chartered accountant (CA) from the parents’ side; a representative of the school; their CA; and a representative of the DM/DIOS. But the new DM, B N Singh, ignoring the previous DM’s directive, had sought complaints from the parents against the schools “in three days”.
 
 Following this, the complaints were supposed to be forwarded to the respective schools which were given 10 days to reply. As the date for submission of complaints lapsed on May 5, the complaints were forwarded to the 26 schools via post. Only three schools — Shiv Nadar, Sector 168, Somerville, Sector 22, and Somerville International, Sector 132, have shared the details. Two schools — Nilgiri Hills Public School Greater Noida and St John’s School Greater Noida — have not replied at all so far while 21 have not shared details of the fee charged in the last three years.
 
 
