KOLKATA: February 14, July 23 and December 19. Three dates in 2016 changed Rimjhim Dasgupta’s life forever. In February, she lost her husband Swagata. In July, her 17-year-old son, Abesh, died mysteriously while partying with friends. In December, her father – Tollywood’s fight master   - succumbed to a cerebral stroke. Seven months have passed since Abesh passed away. The media attention from the case might have shifted but Rimjhim, is still awaiting a closure for the case.

 Meanwhile, inspired by her zeal to “fight to live and live to fight”, a documentary is now being filmed on Rimjhim’s life. Some months back, Rimjhim’s Bristol-based niece Shreya Sen had written a poem titled “Iron is Made”. Inspired by fighters like Rimjhim, she had written: “These are the women made from metal,/One part anger that refuses to settle/Two parts defiance against the odds…” Later on, she wrote a play based on three female characters. One loses her husband, another her son. The third character loses her father. In the end of the play that was staged in Shreya’s college in Bristol, the three characters unfold to the audience as one woman.
 
 It doesn’t take long to understand how this plot overlaps with Rimjhim’s life. “Shreya took my permission and subsequently penned the script,” Rimjhim said. Shreya is now working on a documentary based on Rimjhim’s life. From Wednesday, Shreya will begin filming Rimjhim over skype.
 
 This year will see Rimjhim observing three death anniversaries in a row. Her husband’s memorial service was held in February. The fragrance of incense sticks now make her giddy. Garlanded photographs of Swagata, Abesh or Shantanu leave her unsettled. “I can expect time to heal my grief for Swagata and my father. But I can’t even touch Abesh’s grief. Once I do that, I’ll not be able to come out of that zone and continue with my fight,” she said.
 
 As she awaits filming to begin on her fight, Rimjhim said, “I won’t ever get Abesh back. I’m only looking for a closure. Thanks to the media attention the case received, a special investigation team was formed. Mamata Banerjee too has assured me of justice. During repeated calls and visits to Lalbazar, we’ve been told that the investigation is still on and the   report is pending. My well-wishers including Lalita Ray (Sandip Ray’s wife), Sabyasachi Chakraborty, Subhen Chatterjee and Debajyoti Mishra are very concerned about the investigation’s status. They are wondering how long a grieving mother has to wait for justice. I’ll approach the judiciary if I’m dissatisfied with the cop’s report whenever it’s given to me.”
 
 Dealing with bereavement will form an important part of the documentary. Rimjhim avoids tears, refusing to conform to stereotypes associated with bereavement. Misreading her poise, people have spread rumours about how she has moved on in life. “It’s easy to spread lies about a young and single woman. I wonder if some are designing this campaign! First, they maligned my son. Now, it’s me. I’m slightly disillusioned with Kolkata that allows people to malign me this way. I am thankful that my 83-year-old mother-in-law is so empathic to me. She is my pillar of strength,” she said.
 
 Rimjhim’s New Year resolution was to immerse herself into her interior designing business and resume teaching in a school. Being with children gives her solace. Yet when work gets over post-dinner and it’s family time for others, Rimjhim can feel a sense of gnawing pain churning inside her. In the good old days, that’s when she would sit and chat with Swagata and Abesh.
 
 Memories attached to Abesh’s belongings hit her like shards every time she sees them. “After Swagata’s death, Abesh and I would curl up in bed together and mourn his loss. But with Abesh gone, I can’t lie on that bed anymore,” she said.
 
 Pain, emptiness and courage – the documentary is expected to focus on all these and more.
 
