KOLKATA: The visibility and appeal of experimental science could take a leap ahead in India as the country gears up to partner a path-breaking scientific endevour — the   — that seeks to rewrite understanding of time, space, matter and energy by tracking gravitational waves, according to  , eminent physicist and head of the LIGO Hanford observatory. 

 Speaking at the   University Education Summit on Tuesday, Raab, a faculty at the  , said he expected Indian scientists and researchers to contribute to the effort once a LIGO observatory was built in India. “We expect it to come up by 2024. The Indian observatory will be part of a worldwide network that connects four continents and scores of scientists in a giant collaborative research. Many people with different talents will be playing a part. It will shed light on how much of the universe is reality and how much is not what it appears to be. LIGO attempts to throw open windows,” said Raab.
 
 LIGO, or the  , is a large-scale physics experiment to detect cosmic gravitational waves and to use them as an astronomical tool. The USA has two observatories and Italy is set to have one. “We are looking ahead to the Indian observatory that will come up at a yet undisclosed location. The centre will offer locational advantage to the effort apart from roping in inputs from Indian scientists,” according to Raab.
 
 Elaborating on the project, the scientist said gravitational waves could help to track cosmic phenomenon like black hole coalescences and shed light on why and how they happen. “Gravitational waves are extremely powerful but subtle. Black hole coalescences, for instance, are happening every hour somewhere in the universe. The rate of future discovery in gravitational wave astronomy will depend on the number of detectors, which is why the Indian observatory is important,” felt Raab.
 
 Asked about the possibilities of a delay in the setting up of the Indian observatory, Raab said it wasn’t easy getting funds sanctioned for the project in USA either. “We mooted the project in 1989 and it was not until 1992 that the US Congress finally gave its nod. We had to convince them that we were putting the public money into good use and it wasn’t easy. You must depend on governments to patronize such projects,” observed Raab.
 
 
