NAGPUR: While the city has a high rate of deaths due to  , there are success stories of people leading quality life with the help of medical intervention right before they were on the verge of developing the disease.

 The only common thing between these people was detection of their pre-cancerous condition, which most likely leads to oral cancer.
 
 One such person recently celebrated his 66th birthday. In 1997, he was diagnosed with pre-cancerous lesion on his cheek at   (GDC). He was the first to be diagnosed at GDC’s Oral Pre-Cancer Centre when Dr   was the centre head.
 
 Similarly, a 12-year-old could not open his mouth even for a millimetre because of gutka consumption. It forced him to be on a total liquid diet. The boy was diagnosed with oral sub-mucous fibrosis (a pre-cancerous condition), following which he underwent a surgery at GDC.
 
 Hazarey, the past dean of GDC, said, “He is now a 32 years old, a father of two children, and is leading a quality life. He represents the fact that the disease is preventable at a pre-cancerous state.”
 
 “Such conditions are often associated with white patches inside patches inside the mouth. It’s just a matter of awareness. Often, individuals with pre-cancer conditions notice alterations and experience discomfort associated with lesions. But they are not aware about the causes and consequences of these changes,” he said.
 
 On the occasion of World Head and Neck Cancer Day on Friday, Hazarey organized an interactive session with cancer survivors and their families at   of Excellence for Oral Precancer, at his clinic in Bajaj Nagar.
 
 Giving an example of how a positive perception and faith in treatment became a saviour for one of his patients, Hazarey said, “A 47-year-old woman, mother of two children, had an ulcer on the tongue which was diagnosed as tongue cancer of stage one. She had no bad habits and was advised surgery at   hospital, Mumbai.”
 
 “The family delayed it for few months. She underwent an operation at stage three, but the treatment was successful. She then developed breast cancer in 2010, which was again successfully treated without any delay as the family members now had a positive approach,” he said.
 
 There was a case of a 43-year-old kharra chewer, who had difficulty in opening mouth and was advised biopsy for non-healing ulcer on right cheek by his dentist. Hazarey said, “Hid friends advised him against it as they feared that the disease will flare up by touching metallic surgical blade. He was also advised unnecessary treatment by a rural quack who instructed him not to get exposed to light but staying locked up in his room. ‘Stay away from light’, was the instruction from the quack. This myth and ignorance lead to inoperable disease.”
 
