Mumbai: The   on Sunday started implementing its controversial ‘pay-and-park policy’, beginning with major public parking lots in south Mumbai.

 Municipal officials intimated   at 18 parking lots at Fort, Colaba, Churchgate and New Marine Lines to collect parking fees as per the new policy. Under this, parking a car at Kalaghoda will cost Rs 60 an hour—the charge for the top parking category. 
 
 Under the new policy, the city has been divided into three categories—A, B and C, based largely on footfall—for differential parking rates.
 
 The BMC roads department is still in the process of floating tenders to appoint contractors at around 90 off-street parking spots all over Mumbai. 
 
 On February 10, TOI reported (the first to do so) that the state government had lifted its stay on the BMC’s parking policy. The move had come just a week before the civic election code of conduct kicked in on January 11. The BMC’s policy was declared on January 2, 2015, after it was passed by the Shiv Sena-BJP-dominated general body. A few days later, it was put on hold by the chief minister after south Mumbai residents, who were to be affected the most by the differential rates [around Rs 2,000 a month for night parking in A ward (Colaba-Churchgate)] raised a stink.
 
 When TOI visited the public parking lot at Crawford Market on Sunday, it found a board with the old rates still on display, though motorists were being charged as per the revised rates. A senior civic official said, “The pay-and-park contract for 18 locations in south Mumbai expired last month and therefore a decision was taken to collect parking charges as per revised rates from April 1 onwards. Levying the old rates would have meant a loss in revenue for the BMC.”
 
 While the BMC is yet to roll out the policy in residential areas, where it met with maximum resistance in 2015, it is learned that civic officials are conducting meetings with citizens’ groups to convince them about the merits of the differential rates. Anil Bhatia, a resident of D   and secretary of the Marine Drive Council, who attended one such meeting, said residents’ concerns have been placed before the BMC. “If the BMC ensures us of fixed parking space and security of our vehicle, I do not mind paying a certain amount. But it is not practical if I am not being assured of the safety and security of my vehicle,” said Bhatia.
 
 Another Marine Drive resident, Mahendra Hemdev, said that if the BMC has begun implementing the policy, there is nothing one can do but   up. “In south Mumbai, there is always a dearth of parking space and no efforts are being made for creating multilevel or underground parking. No wonder we aren’t left with any other option.”
 
