Jessy P, a 33-year-old techie, at one point of time in her career made a brilliant success out of freelancing. A regular at hackathons, she would bid for projects online and at times made far more than she did earlier. Jessy, who has left the job market now, represents a new breed of IT professionals, who are willing to give up their cushy corporate jobs, for the   and taking on  . 

 And Tamil Nadu’s vast   is increasingly playing host to such youngsters, who are working for India’s largest IT companies at their own time and convenience. The concept of gig economy is gaining steam — where temporary positions are common and companies engage with independent professionals on a contract basis.
 
 However on the downside, freelancers miss out on financial stability. Social security contributions, insurance coverage and paid leaves are life jackets that come to the aid of a working professional in difficult times. As key economies grapple with unemployment, gig economy can be a redeemer. HR experts say India is at an evolutionary phase when it comes to employment and the Uber model will help with bringing people into the formal economy.
 
 For Jessy, who spent six years at two IT majors, being "on the bench" was the most irksome part of having a well-paid, but boring job. Her freelance stint helped her sharpen her programming skills and gave her the time for creative pursuits like crocheting. 
 
 Dominic Frank, also in his 30s, despite having a high-paid job, chose to freelance to pursue his interest in writing. "If I had been on a regular job, I would have never had the time to compile my poems," said Frank, whose book ‘Nautanki Diaries’ is releasing soon.
 
 Outsourcing and staffing company TeamLease’s co-founder Rituparna Chakraborty said, "For those who value flexibility, work-life balance and wish to pursue a passion, gig economy offers them wider choices. It is however not ideal as a first career option, as the market requires experienced professionals." 
 
 Only a select few are able to command a premium when it comes to wages and work schedule. "In a gig economy, freelancers get paid a premium 12-15% more than someone who has a 9-5 job. The upside is that you get the time to pursue your hobbies like wildlife photography or scuba diving," said E Balaji, president (people services), TVS Logistics Ltd.
 
 But, pursuing your dreams comes at a cost. "For youngsters, freelancing might prove lucrative. But as one gets older, one needs to think of insurance, EPF, gratuity, pension, etc," said Arul Senniappan, who works as a business consultant besides his full time job with a company. 
 
 Even in advanced economies like the US, much is being debated about loopholes associated with the gig economy. Kelly Services India MD Thammaiah BN said while the shared economy model of employment continues to grow, it is possible that there could be a mismatch between demand and supply. "Besides, in a gig economy, a freelancer would be united with the temporary employer for the task and not the overall big picture of the organisation. This means that the engagement would lean heavily on the task and might not involve softer aspects like values and culture that the employer may seek from rest of the employees."
 
 "You can’t buy loyalty and commitment. Freelancers are project-specific, never company-oriented. You can’t expect them to go beyond the call of duty. They would work only for the number of hours paid or the project," said TVS’ Balaji.
 
 While large corporates can afford to outsource some work to freelancers, for emerging startups it is a necessity. For Shanmugavel Sankaran, co-founder, FixNix, a city-based startup, the high cost of hiring is driving him to engage with consultants. "I am on the lookout for funds and cannot afford to hire a full-time professional for highly technical work. Right, now I am making optimum use of the talent available in the market," said Sankaran.
 
 According to former Madras high court judge Justice Chandru K, "for freelancers, power comes with collective bargaining. There have been many instances of freelancers banding together to form a movement and push legislation."
 
 
