PUNE: With hardly any time left for the civic polls, a mammoth task awaits the state department of cooperation.

 The department, which has only 12 officials on the field, has to reach out to 11,697 housing societies in Pune and 4,636 in   to ensure that their residents exercise their right to vote in the upcoming elections.
 
 The   has been pushing for 70% voting for the upcoming civic polls. Against this backdrop, the department of cooperation has pitched in to help contact the registered housing societies to create awareness.
 
 The task to reach out to these societies was assigned to the officials according to a Government   issued in December. It required the chairmen and secretaries of these housing societies to actively participate in helping boost the voting percentage. However, with just ten days remaining, the officials from the department are stretching themselves to reach out to the maximum societies.
 
 “In Pimpri Chinchwad, we have civic officials helping us with banners and posters. We are able to take group sabhas of at least two to three registered housing societies here. However, the same response is yet to be received from the Pune municipal officials,” officials from the department said, adding that “it will be practically impossible to reach out to all the societies ahead of the elections”.
 
 The department has readied a ward wise list of all the societies in their areas and are trying to cover most of them. “We are hoping to get support from the municipal officials and non-governmental organizations or society members themselves in the task,” the officials said.
 
 The department along with the SEC has announced that a certificate will be given to the societies that ensure 100% voting. 
 
 Radhikesh Uttarwar, who operates the pledge to vote campaign, said it would be a daunting task for the officials to cover all the societies. “The NGOs like us are helping them out. We have officials joining us for meetings that we are holding in various societies in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad,” he said. 
 
 Uttarwar said activities like this should have started at least two months prior to the elections. “Most societies in the city are yet to get a clarity about the role of their chairmen and secretaries during elections. earlier, there were plans to rope in these people as polling agents, but the plan fizzled out for want of ID cards,” a senior official from the department said.
 
 In Pimpri Chinchwad, some societies have already started working out strategies to encourage voting by their members.
 
 Voters from Pimpri Chinchwad said they are being offered sops by the chairmen and secretaries of their housing societies to encourage them to vote. “We are planning to give rebate in maintenance charges for a month if the members exercise their right to vote. A final meeting will take place soon on the same,”  , resident of a society in Pimpri Chinchwad, said.
 
 
