PATNA: The Patna zoo will be the place to be on Sunday for   lovers as several events are lined up to spread awareness about the bird, whose number is believed to be fast dwindling. House sparrow was declared Bihar’s state bird on April 16, 2013.

 On the eve of World Sparrow Day, the Patna zoo administration in association with The Times of India has organised an event for flying a dummy sparrow through a drone in the zoo at 11am on Sunday. An ongoing photography contest will also conclude on the day. 
 
 The photography competition began on March 13. Participants were required to click photographs of sparrows in their neighbourhood and WhatsApp them to 7546811116 or post them on the Facebook page, Patnazoosavesparrow.
 
 Patna zoo director Nand Kishore said the event is being held on March 19 even as the World Sparrow Day falls on March 20 because the zoo remains closed on Monday. Forests minister Tej Pratap Yadav is expected to fly the dummy sparrow and also inaugurate a new leopard enclosure on the day.
 
 “We have received around 150 entries under the photography competition. Fifty best entries would be given prizes at a function to be organised later in the zoo. Besides, we have put up posters in 20 schools to spread awareness about the house sparrow among children,” said Nand Kishore.
 
 House sparrows are believed to have originated in the Middle East. They spread along with agriculture to Eurasia and Africa. With the progress in shipping, they made their way across the oceans to the United States.
 
 Britain’s Royal Society of Protection of Birds has included house sparrows on the ‘Red List’ on the basis of research findings in different parts of the world, including India. The International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources has also declared house sparrows as an endangered species.
 
 According to Indian Bird Conservation Network’s state coordinator Arvind Mishra, though the number of house sparrows has reduced considerably in recent years, the situation is still not alarming. “However, there is a need for the authorities to take steps for their conservation. One of the major factors for decline in their number is modern architecture, which leaves little scope for ventilation in our houses,” he said.
 
 
