BHUBANESWAR: At a time when parties are leaving no stone unturned to garner votes, the murder of a BJP worker on Saturday in  , days before the   starts on February 13, has intensified the air of political tension. The saffron party mounted a scathing attack on the  , alleging that the ruling party has begun indulging in a gory brand of politics. 

 The BJP on Sunday accused the BJD of introducing political violence in the state and described the murder of its worker Salman Rout at Tarabha village as the work of goons owing allegiance to the ruling regional party.
 
 In a series of tweets and in a press statement, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said, "The political violence unleashed by the ruling party in Odisha is a danger to democracy. I am disturbed with the shooting of a BJP worker over political rivalry."
 
 "Odisha didn't witness such violence earlier. Debate not violence is weapon of democracy. The BJP will respond to it politically," he added. Stating that the Dhenkanal incident is not isolated, Dharmendra said the political rivals recently burnt the BJP office in Jajpur.
 
 BJP vice-president Sameer Mohanty said the BJD were unhappy with Rout because he played a crucial role in the campaigns of BJP candidates in Tarabha panchayat. "The BJD is frustrated with the rising popularity of our party," Mohanty said. Mohanty and several state BJP leaders went to Tarabha, 10 km from Dhenkanal town, to attend the cremation of Rout.
 
 Mohanty said there is strong reason to suspect that the assailants of Rout were getting protection from steel and mines minister and Kamakhyanagar MLA Prafulla Mallik (Tarabha comes under Kamakhyanagar assembly segment).
 
 Distancing himself and the BJD from the murder, Mallik said it is unfortunate that there are efforts being made to link the crime with him or his party. 
 
 "A crime has happened and police have already arrested the main accused (Byomkesh Biswal) who is a policeman. How can a policeman be a BJD worker or supporter," Mallik told reporters.
 
 Police attributed the murder to past enmity. Quoting preliminary findings, SP (Dhenkanal) Basant Panigrahi said the murder seems to be a fallout of a past dispute involving the deceased during Ganesh puja last year. "Rout and the accused were involved in a brawl," he said.
 
