HYDERABAD: After a lull of nearly a week, the city recorded 9.02cm rainfall between 8.30am on Wednesday and 8.30am on Thursday, leaving low lying areas like  , Nacharam and Uppal inundated. Meteorologists attributed the rain spell in the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday to the presence of a trough running from Vidarbha to South Tamil Nadu across Telangana and   region. “Under the influence of the trough, several areas in the region received light to moderate rainfall during the night. High temperatures may have led to evaporation of surface water, thus increasing the moisture content in the air, leading to rainfall," said Naga Ratna, head of weather forecasting,   (IMD), Hyderabad.

 According to IMD-H, the highest rainfall of 17.46cm was recorded at Keesara on the city's outskirts, followed by Uppal with 11.12 cm, Malkajgiri 10.74 cm and Balanagar 9.72 cm.
 
 In the districts, Sangareddy recorded the highest rainfall at 7.88cm, Damaragidda at 6.7 cm and Medchal at 5.4 cm.
 
 While the cumulative rainfall received by the city this monsoon is already in excess by 2%, weathermen predict that rains will continue for the next couple of days.
 
 A warning issued by the IMD Hyderabad office said: “Thunderstorms very likely to occur at isolated places in districts of Telangana for the next 48 hours.“
 
 “There is 80% probability that one or two spells of heavy rainfall will continue in Hyderabad and the Telangana region for the next few days,“ added Naga Ratna of IMD-H.
 
 Even private weather forecasting agencies have predicted light to moderate rains in parts of Telangana, the AP coast as well as Rayalaseema.
 
 “The day temperature is hovering around 24 degree Celsius and we expect it to increase only by a few notches. Weather conditions will remain pleasant as showers will continue over Hyderabad and other parts of Telangana for another 48 hours,“ predicted Skymet Weather.
 
 According to Skymet, the city recorded 9.28 cm of rain in September as compared to the monthly average rainfall of 13.29 cm. “With fresh showers in the offing, we expect the city to surpass its normal average rainfall with ease," Skymet predicted.
 
 
