KOCHI: FIFA   technical director   on Monday expressed his disappointment in Kochi’s poor response towards the third phase of ticket sales for the marquee event to be held on October. While speaking to the reporters at Kochi, Ceppi said that only 20% of phase-3 tickets have been sold till now.

 "We want Kochi to support all the teams, we haven’t seen it yet, we thought we were going to see a sellout for all Brazil matches. Brazil, Spain as well as Germany are playing in Kochi and we were expecting a sellout in 2 hours like we saw in Kolkata. To be honest, a Brazil versus Spain game in a World Cup is as big as it gets and fans in Kochi need to step up and show the true spirit that we know it for,” he said.
 
 “Looking at phase-1 and phase-2, we are not sure why the trend has not continued. We are not getting into a situation where fans’ interest is a problem. We are confident fans will buy. Brazil vs Spain in a World Cup game is by far the biggest international game to be played in India and we are confident fans will come in huge numbers to witness this historic game.” Ceppi added.
 
 The third phase of sales began on July 5 and will last until October 5, one day before the tournament kicks off. In this phase, there is a 25 per cent discount on all tickets. Tickets are priced at 600 Rs, 300 Rs, 150 Rs and 60 Rs in various stands after the discount. Once the tournament begins, in the final phase of sales, tickets can be bought only at full rates.
 
 Ceppi also had a word of warning for fans who are planning to buy tickets from counters on matchdays as such a practice is unlikely during   events. “Whatever is not sold until a matchday will remain unsold. I’m making it clear, there will be no ticket sales at the venue or anywhere near the stadium on a matchday. If you don’t have tickets please don’t come to the stadium, people will not be allowed to enter without tickets,” he said.
 
 However, Ceppi said Goa might be an exception as FIFA has plans for on-ground ticket sales there. “Goa is an interesting case. Certainly, the online strategy didn’t work in Goa. We know that Goans are passionate about football. We are not planning anything for now, but closer to the tournament we may start on-ground ticket sales. It might be somewhere in Panaji or Margao so that the people can go there and buy tickets. Of course, we are not satisfied with sales in Goa,” he said.
 
 The U-17 WC tickets can be bought from the website 
 
 
 
