TIRUPATIi: Prime Minister   on Tuesday said India ranks sixth in the world with respect to scientific publications, growing at 14 percent against world average of 4 percent. He was citing SCOPUS, a bibliographic database on research publications.

 The   document released in last year’s  , is now developing into a detailed road map for 12 key technology sectors. NITI Aayog is evolving a holistic science and technology vision for the country, the prime minister added, speaking at the Indian Science Congress.
 
 “One important area that needs to be addressed is the rapid global rise of cyber-physical Systems. This has the potential to pose unprecedented challenges and stresses to our demographic dividend. But we can turn it into a huge opportunity by research, training and skilling in robotics, artificial intelligence, digital manufacturing, big data analysis, deep learning, quantum communication and  . We need to develop an inter-ministerial national mission in cyber-physical Systems to secure our future by creation of basic R&D infrastructure, manpower and skills,” Modi said.
 
 He called for a collaborative approach to address multifarious development challenges rapidly and effectively. “We need effective partnerships. The effectiveness of these missions can be ensured only by getting out of our deep rooted silos, and adopting a collaborative approach. Our ministries, our scientists, R&D institutions, industries, start-ups, universities and IITs should work together seamlessly... Another empowering factor for scientific delivery is the ease of doing science. If we want science to deliver, we must not constrain it,” Modi said.
 
 He also emphasized the need for solving the the problems of ease of access, maintenance, redundancy and duplication of expensive equipment. The desirability of establishing professionally managed, large regional centers in   housing high value scientific equipment should be examined. “On the lines of corporate social responsibility, the concept of scientific social responsibility needs to be inculcated to connect leading institutions to all stakeholders, including schools and colleges,” Modi said urging national laboratories to connect with schools and colleges to develop appropriate training programs.
 
 He called upon researchers to involve schoolchildren to broaden the base of innovation pyramid and secure the future of India. “The ministry of science and technology is initiating a programme focused on students of classes 6 to 10. It will scout, mentor, reward and showcase 10 lakh top innovative ideas focused on local needs from five lakh schools. We must provide equal opportunities to the girl child to enroll and excel in the under-represented disciplines of science and engineering and ensure continued participation of trained women scientists in nation building.”
 
 
