PANCHKULA: Once a crucial   witness in the rape and murder cases against   head  , his former driver Khatta Singh, who had later turned hostile, moved an application before the special CBI court in Panchkula on Saturday seeking permission to depose in the murder cases against Gurmeet.

 Applicant Khatta Singh has sought to depose in the cases pertaining to murders of Sirsabased journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati and   manager  .
 
 The special CBI court resumed the trial in both murder cases amidst heavy security on Saturday , 20 days after Gurmeet was convicted in two cases of rape on August 25 by the same court. Khatta was one of the crucial witnesses in the rape and murder cases against Gurmeet.He had turned hostile in 2012 and the CBI had dropped his evidence in the initial days of the trial in these cases.
 
 Accompanied by his lawyer, Khatta admitted to having changed his statement. Khatta Singh had earlier given a statement in favour of the sect chief in the murder cases but now claimed that he did it under threat and pressure from the sect chief. “Dera head's men had been threatening me to change the statement. Now, since Gurmeet is lodged in the jail, it has prompted me to depose again. I want the CBI to rerecord my statement,“ he said.
 
 Enquiries revealed that CBI judge Jagdeep Singh has fixed September 22 for the final order on Khatta's application. According to information, the dera head appeared in the hearing from Sunaria jail in Rohtak, through video conferencing.The other accused in cases were brought amidst heavy security arrangements. The Panchkula court complex was fortified and was virtually out of bounds for the common man during the proceedings of the case, which lasted for five hours.
 
 Besides dera chief Gurmeet, his manager Krishan Lal, Kuldeep Singh and Nirmal Singh are the main accused in the Chhatrapati murder case.The journalist was shot at his residence on October 24, 2002. It is alleged that Kuldeep and Nirmal pumped five bullets into him from Krishan Lal's licensed weapon. He had later succumbed to injuries.
 
 Sources said after taking up the application moved by Khatta, the court resumed hearing into the murder of dera manager Ranjit. The trial began with the final arguments by the CBI counsel who elaborated on the statements of the prosecution witnesses of the case.
 
 Ranjeet had allegedly deve loped differences with the dera head after the allegations of sadhvis' rapes surfaced. He was shot dead near his fields in Khanpur Kolian village of Kurukshetra district on July 10, 2002. The dera head had allegedly asked for his execution. Besides Gurmeet, other accused involved in the incident include Avtar Singh, Inter Sain, dera manager manager Krishan Lal and shooters Jasbir Singh and Sabdil Singh.
 
 Meanwhile, the sect chief's counsel S K Garg told media that the hearing of the Ranjit Singh murder case will be held on Monday and journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati murder case will be held on September 22. Garg said that the final arguments will take some time to complete.
 
 Baba looks dejected
 
 The once flamboyant dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh appeared dejected on the screen on Saturday as he faced the trial from Sunaria jail in Rohtak through live conferencing, say sources.They added that he scarcely looked into the camera.
 
