THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Of the 2,093   of   booked under Pocso Act from January to December last year, only 387 cases were presented in court and there were convictions in 34 cases (8.7%). In 301 cases, the accused were acquitted.

 “The victims of these cases were 322 girls and 74 boys. We came across instances where a single case had multiple victims. The courts also quashed 40 cases since the accused were absconding for a long time or the victims were not alive,” said child rights advocate  .
 
 The records of special courts, a copy of which is available with TOI, reveal that in terms of district-wise breakup of Pocso cases in courts, Kozhikode topped the list with 124 cases, with convictions in just five of them. In 114 cases, the accused were set free and there was partial acquittal in two other cases.
 
 In Wayanad, of the 63 cases in courts, 48 saw acquittals and there were convictions in 14 cases. Of the 60 cases in Malappuram, there were acquittals in 41 of them and the accused were convicted in four cases. Of the 37 cases reported in Thiruvananthapuram courts, convictions were secured in five. The accused were acquitted in 29 cases and one case was quashed by the court.
 
 In many cases, the child is abused by their own relative, who is supposed to protect the child. In 27 cases, the accused was the father and in seven other cases it was the step-father. In 17 cases, teachers were the accused. In one case in Wayanad, there were 12 girls who had complained of sexual abuse. In that case, the court acquitted the accused and in another case in Thrissur, the child (a girl) died and the court acquitted the accused, said Bhaumik.
 
  Child rights activists said that almost 4,000 cases of child sexual abuse were pending in various courts since 2012 and hardly 10% of the cases were disposed. Kerala   chairperson Shobha Koshy had told TOI that data from special courts in Kerala (from November 2012 to December 2015) reveal that 3,500 child abuse cases were pending before courts and only 261 cases (7.07%) were disposed. Commission members said that the number of pending cases has gone up.
 
 Minister for social justice KK Shylaja has sought to expedite the proceedings in pending cases and strengthen existing   shelter homes. “While strengthening Nirbhaya homes and ensuring facilities, efforts should be on to ensure that at least a single one-stop crisis management cell functions in a fully-fledged manner in Kerala. This cell must ensure that a survivor’s medical, legal and counselling needs are met at one place,” she said.
 
