BHOPAL: Akansha Sharma’s parents believed her when she said had bagged a job in the US and left home last June, all smiling and bright-eyed. The police weren’t to be taken in that easily, though. They started digging around when Akansha’s parents came to them to say they hadn’t heard from her in a long time.

 There were no leads. No formal complaint had been filed yet (the parents lodged an FIR only on January 5), and no one initially suspected foul play. All the months that she lay entombed in concrete, her parents believed she couldn’t contact them because she was still settling in the US or finding it difficult to call from overseas. 
 
 It was Bankura sub-inspector Kaushik Hazra’s doggedness that cracked the case. He found out that she was in touch with them for the first few days after leaving Bankura. But since July, they only got messages from her on Facebook and WhatsApp. Udyan Das, her live-in partner and prime suspect in the murder, kept up the ruse for a few months but eventually Akansha’s parents suspected the person they were chatting with wasn’t their daughter, said an officer.
 
 “She was murdered in July itself. But he kept her alive in the virtual world. He used to chat with her parents from her WhatsApp and Facebook accounts. He continued this for 4-5 months until her parents got suspicious. Then they approached us and our investigation started,” said Hazra. The only clue was a name: Udyan. He had visited Bankura on October 5 last year to tell her parents that she was in the US. This helped the family give police a name to begin with
 
 “For almost a week I tried to find out about Udyan on Facebook and came to the conclusion that even the friends on his social media accounts are not real. There was something fishy about his claims of living in America. We were determined to trace the girl and dug out her call details. Udyan was using her phone and we traced the location to Bhopal,” Hazra said.
 
 Bankura circle inspector Amitabh Kunha said, “Das is out-and-out fake. He even told the girl that he had lunched with the President of  . He claims to be a IIT graduate but it seems he is lying. He is a fraud who duped an innocent girl and killed her. He even took Rs 1.5 lakh rupees from Akansha.”
 
 Suspecting the worst, a five-member police team from Bengal arrived in Bhopal on Thursday and in coordination with the city cops, nabbed Udyan from near his house in Saket Nagar. Then, the grisly work of digging for the body started.
 
 Although   say that the first time they came to Bhopal was after Akansha’s parents filed a missing person’s report on January 5, a senior officer of Bhopal Police said Bankura cops had visited in late December as well and even questioned an auto driver who used to regularly ferry Udyan. But they did not coordinate with city police. On Friday, they took back Udyan with them. “He doesn’t have any job. We are going to investigate if he has done the same thing with other girls as well. He will be charged with kidnapping and murder,” said Kunha.
 
 Akansha’s parents are numb with shock. They are waiting for her brother to bring her remains home, but that seems unlikely going by the advanced level of decomposition. Sitting in their home in Bankura’s  , they said they had no idea they were seeing her for the last time when she left in June 2016.
 
 Bankura SP Sukhendu Hira said, “Akansha reached Bhopal’s Saketnagar via Delhi with Udayan. Our joint team raided Udayan’s residence there and found a concrete tomblike structure inside with a marble stone atop. On breaking the concrete, we found an iron case inside which lay a human skeleton. We have autopsied the skeleton and tested it for DNA. We are awaiting the DNA report. Our team found Akansha’s passport and clothes from the house. During interrogation, Udayan confessed he strangled Akanksha after she contacted a number of friends. After the murder, Udayan would answer calls made to her cell and tell each caller that she was busy.”
 
 “We never imagined that this would happen. There must be a thorough investigation,” said her father Shibendu Kumar Sharma and mother Sita Devi.
 
