KOLHAPUR: The   has geared up to catch fake doctors practising in towns and cities without having the requisite degree and licence. 

 After a survey of villages, towns and cities, the district health office has identified 104 persons offering medical services without having the proper degree and licence.
 
 District health officer   said, “A team of district health office and the health officers at local level have surveyed the areas allotted to them last month and have collected data about 104 persons that are suspected to be practising without valid degree.” 
 
 The state government has established a committee under district collector to check the fake doctors or practitioners having no legal certificates since 1998. Presiding over the meeting on Tuesday, district collector   asked the authorities concerned to take tough action against such persons. He has asked them to set up a three-member panel that will be dedicated to take action against such persons. 
 
 “A special panel will be set up to find the whereabouts of these fake doctors and take action against them as per the law. The fake doctors conduct medical practice without the requisite degree and licence,” Saini said. The three-member committee comprising health officer, a police officer and an officer from   will be formed within a week. The team will tour to various parts of the district with the available list of persons practising medicine illegally. After confirming that these persons are practising without valid licence and medical degree, legal action will be taken against them.
 
 “The members of the panel will tour the villages and towns and conduct surprise checks at the clinics and other establishments where we have got information that fake doctors are practising. The health officers of primary health centres and other government hospitals will be assisting the team in this drive,” Saini said.
 
 Along with this, the work of identifying fake doctors could also continue and health officers are gathering information about such persons.
 
