NEW DELHI: Close on the heels of appointment of new foreign for coach for the men's boxing contingent, the women's pugilists too have a foreigner to guide them for the first time. Frenchman Stephane Cottalorda has been appointed as the first foreign coach for the elite women's boxing contingent on Wednesday.

 Cottalorda, an AIBA three-star coach, will be in charge of the women's pugilists till December 2018.Over the course of nearly one and half years, his two biggest assignments will be the 2018   in   and 2018 Asian Games in Jakarta. He will be joined by Italian coach Raffaele Bergamasco, in charge of the youth women boxers.
 
 The  , under new president Ajay Singh, handed men's foreign coach Santiago Nieva a contract till December 2020 same as Bergamasco, while Cottalorda will be in charge till December 2018. "All the three coaches have been recommended by the International Boxing Association (AIBA). The president had spoken to AIBA officials during a meet held here in New Delhi last year. All three are AIBA 'three-star' coaches and have plenty of experience. The   (SAI) and the sports secretary finalised the contract of all three foreign coaches yesterday," a   official told TOI.
 
 The 41-year-old has been the coach of youth and junior national French women boxers from 2014.He is a also a certified coach in the AIBA Pro-Boxing and the World Series of Boxing events. "The federation will be run much more professionally now. We'll extend all the help required for the boxers - both men and women - in all aspects of coaching, diet and fitness. We are also looking at appointment of other support staff for the new foreign coaches. The two coaches -Stephane and Raffaele -will be arriving in India next month and we'll plan our way forward with them," the official added on Wednesday.
 
 Gurbax Singh Sandhu is the current women's chief coach, while G Manoharan is the chief coach for youth male boxers. The first big assignment for the women boxers would be the Asian Championships in Vietnam in November this year. The youth women will be competing in the World Championships to be hosted by India in Guwahati - also in November.
 
 Bergamasco is also a three-star AIBA coach like Cottalorda and has been involved with the Italian men and women's boxing team for over 15 years now. During one of his stint with the women's team, Bergamasco has seen   from close quarters.
 
 The Italian claims that speaking in English is one of his constraints but he has been training to improve himself in this regard. "I'll personally like to have a lot of campus all over the country to develop the sport in and discover new women boxers and having the best directly out of them. I'll also like to have organise a lot of training camps and courses for coaches," Bergamasco communicated to the boxing federation.
 
 The senior women boxers are currently training in the   in Rohtak.
 
