AURANGABAD: The   of the city police that is currently investigating the   that they busted in the first week of February, has now found that the accused doctor also prepared a fake accident claim for his wife worth Rs 7 lakh.

 The doctor has already been arrested for playing a key role in the scam by preparing bogus medical reports.
 
 The modus operandi of the racketeers was to make accident claims by registering false accident cases, followed by submitting forged medical reports and approaching the court for the claim.
 
 Much to the surprise of the authorities, Dr Mahesh Mohril, a pediatrician, used the same modus operandi to not only file a false accident case showing his wife as the victim, but also submitted forged medical records stating that she was admitted for eight days in the hospital.
 
 The EOW officer said, “The accused doctor used his wife’s name that she had before marriage and got the case registered a couple of months before the scam came to light and filed a claim of Rs 7 lakh in the court. He submitted supporting documents claiming the woman to be a labourer by profession and a resident of  , a slum area in the city.” 
 
 The case was busted by cybercrime branch assistant inspector Unmesh Thite and accordingly three accused identified as Dr Mahesh Mohril, head constable RR Shaikh and agent Shaikh Latif were arrested and handed over to Vedantnagar police for further probe. The EOW has also arrested the private insurance company’s legal advisor  , a practising lawyer with the high court, from Mumbai on February 25.
 
 Meanwhile, the EOW has found that a number of bogus bank accounts were opened by the racketeers for depositing the claim amount cheques.
 
 Commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar said, “The kind of claims made by the accused about their profession, addresses and education qualification in the scam are quite surprising. Educated people residing in upscale localities, in a bid to make easy money, make fake documents showing them as labourers by profession and residents of slum areas.” 
 
