One of the most important organ in our body is a   which helps us maintain an active lifestyle. Maintaining good   involves eating properly and getting enough exercise. Minerals like sodium &   play an important role in proper functioning of heart. 

 Potassium is a mineral that has many roles within our body. This includes helping your   normally and regulating blood pressure. High or low potassium levels in your blood can affect your heartbeat. Potassium is a mineral which powers every heartbeat. A hundred thousand times a day, it triggers heart to contract and in turn heart pumps and supplies blood throughout our body. We require 4,700 milligrams of potassium per day. If you do not get sufficient amount of potassium then it leads to potassium deficiency. Symptoms of potassium deficiency are fatigue, muscle cramps, heart palpitations and dizziness. The importance of potassium in maintaining stable cardiac function is a well known fact. Since the heart muscle needs potassium in order to contract, insufficient potassium may cause the heart to stop contracting, which leads to cardiac arrest. People who get enough potassium in their diet have a low risk of stroke, especially  .
 
 Journal of Nutrition metabolism and Cardiovascular Diseases confirms dietary potassium from fruit and vegetable improves FMD (Fibromuscular Dysplasia) within 1 week in healthy men and women.
 
 Fruits and vegetables are a great source of potassium which helps to balance out negative effect of salt and lower your blood pressure. Foods that are rich in potassium include; potatoes, sweet potatoes, bananas, tomatoes, yoghurt and fat free milk. Bananas are powered with potassium! This tasty staple is a great option for an ample dose of the nutrient, with 422 milligrams in each medium-sized serving according to the USDA* Nutrient Database. So enjoy banana fruit; nature's own energy-rich food that comes with a safety envelope! Fresh and delicious dessert bananas are one of the cheapest and readily available fruits, year around. It means people could protect themselves from suffering a disability and often deadly stroke simply by ensuring that they eat enough banana, potato, sweet potato and white beans!
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
