VISAKHAPATNAM: Even though   was hyped as an annual event to attract tourists to the port city, it witnessed delay in announcement of dates and concluded with a potpourri of events spread over three days. However, residents opined that the government has to work on improving connectivity to Vizag as well as focus on a theme to promote the rich cultural heritage of  . Here's what our readers have to say:

 
 
 
 Visakha Utsav is the most important festival for Vizagites. But, the organisers concentrated more on promoting adventure sports such as wrestling, quad biking and so on, while neglecting our tradition and culture. There were no stalls promoting our heritage. Moreover, the festival lasted only three days which is not enough for tourists to enjoy the festival. The organisers should extend the festival to five days in the future and focus on promoting the rich Andhra culture be it food, art, dance, and music. Tribal culture also needs to be highlighted. The government should also plan some attractive discounts such as free bus tours to tourist spots and free transport to Araku with stay in cottages. 
 
 Surendra Kumar Madan, Businessman
 
 
 
 
 I couldn't understand the theme and aim behind conducting Visakha Utsav. If the government attempts to attract tourists with such festivals, then there needs to be a proper plan. The festival was like a jatara with food stalls, irrelevant commercial stalls, and hawkers selling whistles and balloons. I don't think it was appropriate to set up a giant wheel and Well of Death. Moreover, so many posters of politicians are unwanted. The flower show, model temples, music concerts, dance shows and to some extent sporting events were good. But, more has to be done to highlight the Andhra culture. I hope next year, the organisers will focus more on showcasing our heritage.
 
 R Ramesh Babu, Academician
 
 
 
 
 Visakha Utsav should aim to promote Visakhapatnam in all spheres — archaeological, geographical, historical, political, industrial and cultural. But for achieving this, all cadres, administrators and citizens must ensure that the government achieves its goal. Safety measures should be taken to avoid untoward incidents and protect lives. A keen vigilance should be kept on miscreants and anti-social elements who eagerly wait to cause trouble. If all precautions are taken and Vizag is promoted properly, then the festival will become as successful as Surajkhund Mela and Goa Carnival.
 
 V Ramesh, Retired employee
 
 
 
 
 Initially, Shilparamam in Madhurawada was developed to be a venue for Visakha Utsav. However, the project was abandoned midway due to internal disputes. The job to organise the festival should be given to a dedicated cultural-cum-professional organisation free from bureaucratic and political interference. A reputed advertising agency should be appointed to publicise the event. If the festival is properly highlighted, tourists will automatically come to attend it. 
 
 K Nehru Patnaik, Retired railway employee
 
 
 
 
 Merely organising a festival will not attract foreign tourists unless infrastructure and connectivity is improved. Visa procedures need to be simplified besides increasing the number of international flights to and from the Visakhapatnam Airport. Further, the tourism department should use the media to highlight the tourism potential of Vizag, especially the sea and its beautiful beaches, besides the economical accommodation facilities in the city.
 
 R Sekar, PSU Employee
 
 
 
 
 The much-hyped Visakha Utsav ended a damp squib as the organisers failed to attract tourists. Unless a tourism calendar is prepared and Vizag properly promoted through scheduled events, attracting visitors will be difficult. Odisha has been organising the Puri and   festivals on fixed dates which the tourists look forward to attend. Peak winter season is the best time to organise the beach carnivals and Visakha Utsav.
 
 K Siva Kumar, Software Professional
 
 For the coming week, we turn the spotlight on the government’s recent proposal to make Vizag as a fintech (financial technology) hub. Do you believe Vizag has the potential to become a fintech hub? Or is this just another hub among the many hubs being promised for Vizag? Pick up the megaphone and  ! If you feel strongly about this or any other issue, mail us at sayitloudvizag.toi@gmail.com. Do not forget to send in a photograph of yours along with your opinion and phone number
 
 
