One of the toughest problems after an incident involving sexual assault or molestation is the actual process of going to a police station and filing a complaint. This small step, which is ideally supposed to be a giant leap for womankind, seems far more bigger. The fact that no complaint has been registered in Bengaluru following the New Year’s Eve sexual assault, which was documented in photographs, is not surprising. After all, a woman talking about sex, leave alone being a sexual-abuse victim, is still considered taboo by many. While films like Pink were about   and abuse, the ground reality is that there are very few who muster the courage to speak against abuse. Here are some of the reasons:

 Indifferent attitude of police
 Women are often discouraged right at the police station — after mustering the courage to go there and file a case. Police counter-question women about whether they are ready to file a case and deal with it, and often discourage them from following up on the same. 
 
 Log kya kahenge syndrome
 The fear of what people might say or what people are already telling them of what they will say acts as a wall between the victim and her pursuit of justice. The fear of what people at home, the workplace or peer groups might say and the worry of being labelled ‘bold’ (which is ironically a bad word here) plays hindrance. 
 
 Easy access to bail
 Given that the system works in a way that women have to prove themselves to be victims, rather than the accused proving themselves to be not guilty, getting bail is quite easy as the bail amount is often nominal. This brings forth a very lackadaisical attitude among men.
 
 Fear of repercussions
 This is one of the biggest reasons for women to keep quiet or are made to hush up matters like these. Fear of the assaulters coming back and maybe causing more damage, which could be as severe as acid attacks in some cases, holds women back from reporting cases of abuse. 
 
 Worrisome and lengthy legal procedures 
 The fact that there is a long follow-up to the actual complaint filed with the many legal procedures is what makes many think twice about filing a complaint. There is social stigma attached to someone who goes to court, irrespective of what they are fighting for. 
 
  New top cop Praveen Sood’s first assignment
 What’s next, Mr Commissioner?
 New commissioner   has a mammoth task as he took charge of his new role following the mass molestation charges on the Brigade Road and MG Road intersection. Here’s what he said:
 Day 1: The commissioner is reported to have said that he cannot act in thin air and that victims should come to the police
 Day 2: If any lady gives complaint of molestation on Dec 31, police will not waste even a minute to register a case and start investigation. Even without a complainant, if police finds credible evidence of molestation, a case will be registered suo motto without waiting
 Day 3: If we are given coordinates of any lady molested on Dec 31 at MG Road, we the police will visit her and take appropriate action without delay
 
  up in arms
 The police should take cognizance of the situation and file the complaint themselves
 This act is shameful. Tomorrow anything will happen to a woman and they will brush it aside. The prosecution, which is the police here, should take cognizance of the situation and file the complaint themselves, given that there is ample proof of many woman being molested. If they wait for one of the women to file a case, then justice gets delayed, as the women have to prove that they are victims. 
 I am appalled to see so many loopholes on that night. Take these for example:
 - They had extended the deadline to 2 am, but this proves that there was no preparation following this decision.
 - Usually, rowdy elements are rounded up and imprisoned before such days. There was no news of any such activity.
 - All the top police officials were busy in their respective head offices, given that they had to hand over their duties and take on new ones.
 - Unruly mobs need authoritative figures and not cops in large numbers to evoke fear. This was missing. 
 
 Citizens react
 The Karnataka home minister drags his non-performing 
 government further into the muck. His statement on dress and molestation was despicable.
 — Ramachandra Guha
 @Ram_Guha
 
 Big shame for bangalore and govt
 — Mohandas Pai
 @TVMohandasPai
 
 This is a blot on Bengaluru. Govt must act on CCTV footage
 —  
 @kiranshaw
 
 Bengaluru has again shamed itself. Why can’t the police take care of women on the streets? Is it because they don’t give a damn?
 —  
 @PritishNandy
 
 Victims are everywhere
 The obvious issue of discussion at the Bangalore Times’ morning meeting was the mass molestation of women on Brigade Road and MG Road on New Year’s Eve. And what we realized was that such incidents are not uncommon in the city. Apart from the ubiquitous groping and brushing against women — where we can only yell at the offender — every member of Team BT had instances to recount, where they felt very unsafe.
 -   said, “I once went to review a film in Gandhinagar, and the guy sitting next to me was jerking off. It was traumatizing, to say the least. Also, whenever there is a rush to exit from a theatre, there is invariable molestation. This has led me to opt for multiplexes instead”
 -   was stalked by a guy for six months. “I was scared and would think twice about attending classes, fearing that he might be around and do something adverse.” 
 - Dhwani Desai was once stuck in traffic at Brigade Road on Christmas Eve around midnight, when a few men passed comments and made gestures. “I initially ignored it, but was scared when one of them actually tried to open the door of my car. I couldn’t take any action then because I was all alone at that time. Also, there were many people who witnessed this, but nobody came forward to help.”
 - Prathibha Joy recounted an incident in which a young man would sit with his pants down every morning at a parking lot near MG Road, covered by a newspaper, which he would pretend to read. “The newspaper would come down every time a girl passed by. I once complained to a traffic policeman, but to no avail,” she said.
 However, there was this one instance when the police was helpful, maybe because the victim was accompanied by other reporters known to them. 
 - Stuti Agarwal once grabbed a drunken man — who passed lewd comments on her — and hauled him to the police and got him arrested in Kolkata. “This incident took place two years ago. I filed an FIR against the man. I also went to the court when summoned to testify before the judge.” Unfortunately, the outcome of the case is not known, nor are the whereabouts of the man. 
 That’s not all. Even a male team member, who sports long hair, isn’t spared.
 - Mohammed Waseem says, “I have had people cat calling me when I am on my bike, only to back off once they realize I’m a guy. I had to grow a beard to save myself the trouble.”
 
