NEW DELHI: The league stage of the 2017   has concluded on Sunday with   becoming the fourth and final team to seal passage to the play-off stage of the season's tenth edition, meaning that the business end is ready to roll. 

 The first qualifier match will be played on May 16 at the Wankhede Stadium between   and Rising Pune Supergiant, while the Eliminator will be between defending champions   and two-time winners   at Bangalore's M Chinnaswamy Stadium on May 17. The second Qualifier will also be in Bangalore on May 19 and the final at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium at Uppal on the outskirts of Hyderabad. 
 
 Here, TOI Sports breaks down the history of how the IPL knockout stage changed from a straightforward semi-final and final scenario to having an additional match with a change of format. 
 
 In the first three seasons of the IPL, the knockout stage comprised of two semi-finals and the final which meant that four teams had an equal chance of reaching the summit. With the introduction in 2011 of two Qualifiers and the Eliminator, there was added incentive to the teams to finish first and second in the league stage. By doing so, the No 1 and 2 teams on the points table face off with the winner automatically going to the final. The loser of this match gets a second opportunity to qualify for the final, playing what is called the Eliminator. 
 
  
  
 Next, the Eliminator is played between the third and fourth ranked teams. Here, the winner gets to play the loser or Qualifier 1 in Qualifier 2, while the loser is eliminated from the play-offs. The winner of Qualifier 2 enters the final, facing the winner of Qualifier 1. 
 
 In IPL 2017, Mumbai Indians topped the league stage 20 points having won 10 of 14 matches. At second are Rising Pune Supergiant with 18 points courtesy nine wins out of 14 matches; this is the first time they have reached the play-offs. At third with 17 points - which came with victory in their last match of the league stage - are  , and falling from second to fourth are   who ended with 16 points.
 
