KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation administration on Tuesday expressed shock over sale of pavement by a section of hawkers in city’s Central Business District (CBD) after TOI carried a report on how slices of footpaths are being sold in   at a premium. Mayor Sovan Chatterjee who had asked police to discipline rampant hawking in   area after visiting several streets adjoining the KMC headquarters in 2015, on Tuesday expressed wonder how a hawker could be empowered to sell off a pavement space. However, Chatterjee conceded that he had information that hawkers in Chowringhee had been doing a roaring business. Chatterjee assured that henceforth the civic body would keep an eye on any illegal dealings. Sources in the KMC said that the mayor had already asked civic officials to do a survey on the existing hawkers and come up with the number of hawkers encroaching on either carriageway or pavement in Chowringhee area.

 However, traders in New Market area are far from satisfied with such an assurance. Rajeev Singh, the general secretary of the Joint Traders Forum, a   which has members from all major markets including New Market, SreeRam Arcade, Firpo’s Market has categorically demanded an encroachment-free trading zone in the locality. “We have had enough of assurance from the civic administration. Now it’s time for action,” Singh said. Ashok Kumar Gupta, the president of S S Hogg Market Traders’ Association echoed Singh’s words. According to Gupta while the civic administration was duty bound to clear encroachment from New Market area, the civic authorities failed to keep an eye on newer encroachment by hawkers in the locality. 
 
 “Everyday some new hawkers are being allowed to encroach on either carriageway or pavements right in front of the eyes of the police and civic bosses,” Gupta complained. Mohammed Shehnaz, a   run hawker union leader looking after New Market area however said that he had no information on hawkers selling pavement space to businessmen. The union leader said that workshops were being held to make the hawkers aware of the rules for legal hawking. “We are against encroachment. We are also against any illegal transfer of pavement space,” he said. Deputy police commissioner (central) Akhilesh Chaturvedi, however, chose not to comment on the reported sale of pavement in Chowringhee area. 
 
