NAGPUR: It was about two years ago, when ‘World Record Group of Nagpur’ was formed by singer   on WhatsApp. This singer, who has a record of singing for 105 hours in 2012, set out to gather ‘extraordinary’ people who had achieved records like him, to facilitate help and support for each other in continuing their passion. 

 “But it became dormant, with just the occasional ‘good morning’ and ‘good night’ messages.’ Then again, Sunil and I decided to wake up the members and revive the spirit with which we had come together,” adds Deepak Sharma, who has several records to his name, one of which is for owning the maximum number of ties in the world.
 
 This group has over 32 members, all of which had come together to support celebrity chef Vishnu Manohar in his world record making endeavour held recently. “Manohar too is a part of the group now,” adds Sharma, excitedly. 
 
 All members have made records for an array of diverse things. Prashant Gaikawad holds a record for playing tabla for 325 hours, Sunita Dhote has applied mehendi on people’s hands continuously for 75 hours, while Vandana Joshi got her name in the list for making a 651-foot rangoli. Gajanan Ladi has climbed several steps while in the Chakrasan yoga pose.
 
 “While attempting any record, the start is always enthusiastic, but when the goal is left unattended, it breaks your heart. There are times when you have big dreams but your health doesn’t support you,” recollects Waghmare. 
 
 In order to make a record for being the fastest to tie a tie, Sharma adds, “I woke up every day at 6am for three-and-a-half months and practised tying a tie 25 times while one person used to read guidelines in detail and my wife would take videos. I have biked from   to   to west for making records. Sometimes I have come home with broken limbs. It is painful.”
 
 “We want Nagpur to have one or two records every month,” says Sharma.
 
 “232 countries are members of the   world records, which means, over 875 crore people are eligible to make a record. There is no limitation. Any record can be broken any time. We want to help each other and continue our passion for making records,” he adds.
 
 
