NAGPUR: A directive issued by the   (UGC) could well cause controversy across the country. As per the directive, teachers who haven’t spent the mandatory 14 years in university system can be promoted as associate professor and above.

 On March 1, 2016, the UGC had issued a directive stating that ‘the period of active service spent on pursuing PhD simultaneously without taking any kind of leave may be counted as teaching experience for the purpose of direct promotion to the post of associate professor and above.’
 
 Thus, a junior college teacher having an experience of 10 years can become an associate professor by adding just four years of senior college teaching period. This may not only add financial burden on state governments but leave senior teachers disgruntled.
 
 An assistant professor who teaches in the arts faculty said, “There is a possibility of exceptional cases cropping up across the country where school or junior college teachers, after gaining certain teaching experience in the university system, will claim benefits and promotion as per this confusing  .”
 
 The teacher added that there could also be major legal issues surfacing if the directive applied in any case. “As per the UGC directive, every higher educational insitituion in India may would require to promote junior teachers to the post of associate professor in colleges before they actually complete 14 years of teaching. This process shall be the violation of the   order in Sharadendu Bhushan Vs  .”
 
 The teacher said, “In its judgement, the apex court had ruled that experience of university teaching up to degree classes only can be considered as experience without claiming the continuity and length of service within the same university.”
 
 Senior academician Vedprakash Mishra admitted that the logicality of the UGC directive is in dispute and it doesn’t not mention reasonable restrictions.
 
 But, he sought to explain the directive by drawing a parallel from medical education.
 
 “I would like to put it this way. Just like in medical education, MD period is counted as teaching experience. The UGC directive’s purpose is to promote JRF. A teacher is put on study leave, and that period is nothing but teaching experience. When I was a teacher, PhD was not required for promotions. Now, a teacher is put on PhD for four years. So this period is certainly teaching experience.”
 
 Asked about the ambiguity of the directive, he said conflict was there when career advancement and promotion scheme was implemented but when there were two equivalences, certain reasonable conditions were imposed.
 
