NEW DELHI: If police are unable to complete your passport verification in 20 days, cannot provide a copy of an FIR on the same day a complaint is lodged or does not release an impounded vehicle in three days despite conclusion of formalities, a cop could end up paying a   of Rs 5,000 or a Rs 250 daily  .

 The penalties are among several suggested by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D) to make police officers accountable for delivery of services to citizens as part of a drive to promote good practices, accountability and transparency in police services.
 
 The apex police research body has listed 45 services as ‘Public Delivery Services’. They are related to police work like 
  , tenants and foreigners; issuance of licence; no objection certificate for a music programme; post-mortem reports;   for protest, apart from arrests, investigations and regular policing. If, BPR&D says, it is found that a police officer designated for a particular service failed to provide the service without sufficient and reasonable cause, he will have to pay Rs 5,000.
 
 Also, if it is found that a particular service has been delayed beyond the stipulated time, the police officer will have to pay Rs 250 each day of the delay. The provisions may, however, sound harsh as there is one police officer for every 729 citizens in India.
 
 BPR&D suggests these 45 public delivery services of police should be notified and incorporated in a ‘Citizens’ Charter’ of states/UTs to empower citizens and improve quality of life while also generating goodwill and community support for police. It recommends that the charter must speak about “where a citizen can register his complaint” besides work entrusted to a police station.
 
 The BPR&D was asked to identify citizen-centric services where citizens have regular interaction with police after PM   called for uniform public services related to policing.
 
 In its report, shared with   and the states, BPR&D has recommended that time frames be set for completion of the identified tasks.
 
 BPR&D says a police officer should complete the inquiry process for verification of passports within 20 days while a similar period is set for an NOC for arms licence, three days for release of an impounded vehicle, 
  within 7 days and verification of tenants, servants and employees within 15 days. It also lists nodal officers in every police station who would be responsible for different services.
 
 BPR&D says that in case a citizen is unable to access the listed services in the prescribed time limit, he or she may file an appeal before an appellate authority and revisional authority, which it says could be senior officers of the respective police department, like the IG or additional DGP.
 
 
