Actress   needs no introduction, as she has become a household name for her role as Varsha in  . Though she plays a vamp creating problems in her cousin Amrita’s (played by Meghna Vincent) life, she has been able to win the hearts of female audience.
The actress in her late 20’s hails from Kottayam and has been in the industry over a decade — doing films, advertisements and anchoring apart from acting in serials. Shalu talks about her journey so far…
 
 
 
 
 I was trained in classical dance from my young age and had won prizes in district level competitions. My first stint in acting was through a documentary based on Christian mythology when I was 14 years old. My debut movie was Jubilee directed by G George, in which I played the granddaughter of Innocent chettan and KPAC Lalitha chechi. It was just like going to school for me, as I used to go to the location in my hometown for the shoot and return home in the evening with my father.
 My first small screen role was in the horror serial, Krishnapaksham. I got a big break when veteran director Sreekumaran Thampi, spotted me in a hair oil ad and later cast me as the lead in his serial, Chattambi Kalyani.
 
 My interest in doing negative roles, landed me as Jalarani in the serial Indira. But it was my portrayal of Rajani in Sarayu that gave me satisfaction as an actor. However, Varsha in Chandanamazha is my most popular role yet.
 
 
 
 
 Chandanamazha is the Malayalam remake of the Hindi soap, Saath Nibhaana Saathiya. I used to watch the serial during my college days but I never thought I would get a chance to act in its Malayalam version. In Malayalam, the serial has a different approach from its Hindi version.
 Chandanamazha is nearing 1000 episodes now. Though a negative character, Varsha is a blockhead. I think her cute stupidity is the reason people love her despite her always messing with Amrita’s life. However, my mother gets angry when she sees Varsha troubling Amrita (laughs).
 
 After seeing my performance, KPAC Lalitha chechi once called me to compliment me for my acting. I felt very honoured when actor Suraj Venjaramoodu said in a TV show that I am a familiar face to his family due to the serial.
 
 
 
 Apart from being an evil character and drama queen, I have a comic role in the sitcom Kudumba Police. My character Alice is a police constable and wife of a sub-inspector, played by Anoop Shivasevan. The plot of each episode revolves around the comic incidents happening in their lives.
  I also have a period drama, Kayamkulam Kochunniyude Makan, in my kitty. I play Naseema, the sister of the protagonist. She is bold and outspoken just like the real me. As the serial includes fight scenes, I may have to enrol myself to learn kalari. Also I think women must learn at least one martial art form for safety reasons.
 
 
 
 
 Currently I am happy with my small screen projects. Serials are my comfort zone and I want to focus more on them than films. However, being a dancer I miss stage performances as I have tight shooting schedules.
 
