PATNA: India has done much better as an electoral democracy, but substantially less as a  , said Ashutosh Varshney, professor at  , here on Sunday.
 
  “Freedom of expression, religious practices and association, though not absent in the country, are not actually robustly anchored,” he said while delivering the silver jubilee lecture on ‘Bihar and Jharkhand: Shared History to Shared Vision’ organized by Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI), Patna, as part of its five-day international conference to celebrate its silver jubilee.
  
  Supporting his point, he said since 1952, total 16 national and 362 state elections have been held. This is besides the three million people, one-third of them being women, elected to the local bodies since 1992. Power has changed several times in New Delhi and for many more times at the state level. Since 1989, defying democratic theory, the poor and less educated have voted as much as their more affluent co-citizens.
  
  He said   finance is the single biggest weakness of India’s election process, but it is clear that while businesses finance elections, often illegally, they are unable to determine results. Citing the examples of the AAP in Delhi in 2013 and 2015 and the Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh in 2012 and the   in 2007, he said poor political parties could and had won elections.
  
  Talking about UP CM Aditya Nath Yogi, Varshaney said, “The so-called retrenchment of liberal values, which is being attributed to the rise of PM Narendra Modi, is not something unprecedented.”
  
  Answering a question from the audience, Varshaney rejected the idea that the Indian democracy was illusory. He said it might have deficits, but the election results of UP was not manipulated and that the voters were not coerced into voting for a particular party or a contestant.
  
  Former professor Vasudha Dalmia of University of California, Berkeley, delivered a lecture on ‘Modernity and Modernism in the Hindi World’.
  
  Director of   Rathin Roy delivered a lecture on ‘India’s Overall Macro Picture: Is there Room for Inclusive Growth?’
