NEW DELHI: What makes the task of accurately deciphering the legacy of the   presidency is the complexity of measuring its ‘gravitas’ –– just as the unprecedented mega package he had carried to the   had left many with an equally complex task in predicting how India’s then most experienced and well-entrenched politician will adjust to the demands of his new office to resist his in-built instincts for power-play.
 
  However, what is easy to gauge is that his successor,  , will be conscious from dayone about the inevitable comparison he will be put through.
  
  Compared to Kovind’s pre-Presidential experience of two Rajya Sabha terms, a two-year stint as governor and political innings as BJP’s Dalit Morcha chief and party spokesperson, Mukherjee moved in with 39 years of experience as Union Minister, a 43-year-old stint in Parliament (apart from being a top-rung ex-player in Congress ) besides being two UPA regimes’ de facto prime mover, specialised in skilfully manoeuvring through minefields of power-play, constitutional, parliamentary and administrative bottlenecks. This record of his predecessor should positively inspire Kovind to rise to the task of expectations, since the Government and Opposition were beneficiaries of receiving "the sound and sober advice" from Pranab Presidency’s wealth of experience and wisdom.
  
  A day after Mukherjee was elected President in 2012, he told journalists that "the Constitution simply does not provide for an "active" or "passive" or "activist President". He would have been tempted to add, neither a "Rubberstamp President" nor a "People’s President". Mukherjee then advertised his admiration for President S Radhakrishnan", as a signal of what he was aiming at, a "Copybook President".
  
  His presidency marked no "playing to the gallery" or messy "controversies" or "confrontations". Even when faced with the occupational hazard of adjusting to the new political order of the Modi regime, Mukherjee never displayed the "unease" President Sanjiva Reddy displayed when the Indira regime came back or, the "belligerence"of Zail Singh when called to adjust to the ways of the Rajiv Gandhi regime.
  
  The Pranab presidency left no chance for the government or Opposition to come out beating their chest in disgust. For him, "engaging" was the tool in handling differences. However, he left both sides occasions to nurse heartburns; for the ruling side, when he privately resisted "spree of Ordinances" and when he spoke his mind against rising intolerance, lynching or, when he hailed the Nehru-Indira era. For the Opposition, when he chose to "engage the ministers and files" than rejecting the imposition of President’s rule in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh or, when he backed   or denounced disruption of Parliament.
  
  He was realistic about the reality of Constitutional schemes and limits of a titular head. For him, statecraft has no place for sentimentality. If he inherited piles of pending mercy pleas, he left behind none to his successor to decide; he rejected 30 pleas, including that of Afzal Guru, Ajmal Kasab and Yakub Memon and accepted four.
  
  Among a few State Bills he refused assent to Gujarat’s anti-Terror Bill and Delhi government’s Bill to wriggle out of the office of profit tangle.
  
  While President Pranab delivered two insightful editions of memoirs, political Delhi is eagerly awaiting how the third one and his post-Presidency Foundation will roll out. Though he insisted he does not need a legacy but simply wants "to fade into the mass", the political class is likely to remember him as "the Political President" in all its engaging shades.
  
