GURUGRAM: Reeling under financial crisis, Haryana Urban Development Authority ( ) is planning to recover pending dues from plot holders, including residential and commercial, in all its sectors.

  In the last six months, Huda has recovered around Rs 600 crore in dues from people who had not paid the remaining amount of their plots, even after several years of allotment.
 
 “Recovery of pending dues is our prime focus. We are issuing notices to  ,” said Huda estate officer Vivek Kalia, adding that they have issued more than 20,000 notices so far. “People are coming forward to settle their dues. Now, on average, around 500-600 notices are being issued every month,” he said.
 
 According to Kalia, Huda has collected around Rs 350 crore in last six months from areas under the jurisdiction of estate office-1, and another Rs 246 crore from areas under estate office-2. “We are trying to recover all the pending dues. The recovery of dues would help in improving Huda’s financial health,” he said. 
 
 According to land allotment rules, the allotee has to deposit 10% of the cost of the plot at the time of filing application for allotment. 
 
 After they are alloted land through a draw, allottees have to deposit 15% of the amount within 30 days to get the possession letter. The remaining 75% needs to be deposited within 60 days. But in many cases, people have not deposited the remaining 75% of their plot cost for decades.
 
 Huda officials said defaulters are being issued notices under Section 17(1) of Huda Act, 1977. In case defaulters are unable to settle their dues within 30 days of receiving the notices, Huda will cancel the allotment and take the possession of the plot, and the amount paid earlier by the allotee will be forfeited.
 
 Most of the big defaulters are from sectors 46 and 57. There are around 150 group housing societies in sectors 38, 40, 42, 43, 45, 47, 52, 56. Out of these, 50 group housing societies have not paid their dues.
 
 According to an estimate, the urban development body has to recover around Rs 3,333 crore of dues from people who have been allotted plots —residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, social, religious, charitable, petrol pumps and shopping mall — across the state, and have not paid for years. 
 
 “There are various type of allotments of Huda plots. The defaulters are in almost all categories,” Kalia said.
 
 In a bid to raise  , Huda has also conducted autions of several residential and other plots.
 
