JAIPUR: Chief minister Vasundhara Raje on Monday said the government would work towards a permanent solution to   in the state. Normal life in Jalore, Sirohi, Pali and Barmer districts has remained disrupted due to   since July 24.

 “There are many districts in the state that face flood like situations again and again.We will work to find a permanent solution to the problem,“ Raje told reporters in Jalore.She said the government would find ways to utilise rainwater through construction of ponds and other water storage techniques to avoid flood situations in future.
 
 The chief minister conducted aerial survey of Jalore district on Monday and asked officials in districts hit by torrential rains to make a report of losses, so that an inte rim report can be sent to the Centre for financial assistance. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on the other hand, announced ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the kin of those who lost lives in Assam and Rajasthan floods. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO), while tweeting about the ex-gratia financial assistance, also announced Rs 50,000 each for the seriously injured by flo ods. In an effort to provide immediate relief to flood victims, chief minister Raje ordered that ration be distributed offline in the affected districts. The mandatory use of POS machines for rations has been suspended in these districts. Briefing about the rescue operations, Raje said more than 11,000 persons were rescued, including 42 persons evacuated through choppers. “Teams of district administration, NDRF, SDRF, Army , health department, CRPF and volunteers are on their toes to carry out rescue operations and normalise life in the heavy rainfall affected areas. The work done by all people involved in the rescue operations is commendable,“ she said.
 
 The chief minister said power and telecommunication networks in the affected districts were being repaired.In Jalore alone, 100 Grid SubStations (GSS) have been down due to torrential rains.Out of the 100, 88 have been repaired. In Sirohi, of the 30 GSS, 25 have been repaired.
 
 “Soon, road, power and water issues will be normalised,“ the chief minister added. The government has Veterinarians of state government as well as of the Indian Army have been deployed to take care of bovines hit by rain water.
 
