MUMBAI: The controversy-ridden   ( ) is planning to boost transparency by digitising its systems to allow for the entire process from the developer applying a scheme to the final allotment of tenements to eligible slumdwellers to be tracked online. The body floated an e-tender on Friday to set up a web-portal for “citizen centric processes in SRA”.

 The SRA online system is expected to go live in 26 weeks, officials said.“This will make the entire procedure convenient and transparent for the common citizen. We are focused on bringing more technology to SRA to speed things up and make the procedure above board,” said SRA CEO Deepak  .
 
 The online system will only apply to new projects. The developer will have to submit his project application online and make payments online. The details of the project will also be available and locals will be able to track at which stage it has reached. The movement of the file from one department to the next will also be made available, officials added. 
 
 The allotment of tenements for eligible slumdwellers will go online and the process of allotment will be through a lottery system. “This means there will be a totally random selection of the tenement made available to an eligible slumdweller. Those with influence with the developer’s committee will not be able to corner the best location,” an official said. However, ground floor tenements will be made available for senior citizens and the handicapped.
 
 Slumdwellers will also be able to submit their grievances online and track the response. “The system will redress citizen’s grievances about the allotment of tenements, make the entire system more open and remove discretion,” said Kapoor. Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has been pushing for the use of digital technology in SRA functioning officials said. 
 
 A mobile app to allow for such online tracking is also in the pipeline.
 
 However, critics say this will not make a major difference in clearing the web of corruption and violations that dog the scheme. The rot goes too deep and is tied to the very way the scheme is designed, they say.
 
 “The bulk of violations happen when slum dwellers are coerced to agree to an SRA scheme. Or a false undertaking is given on their behalf. How does online tracking help with preventing that?” asks housing activist Chandrashekhar Prabhu.
 
 He also says the very design of the scheme is “predatory”. “In most schemes, the developer makes a small profit. But here he stands to make a 5000% profit. It’s a scheme heavily tilted in favour of the developer so the slumdweller is inherently at a disadvantage,” he says. He also asks, “How many slumdwellers will be able to go online and track these things?”
 
 The SRA scheme was launched in 1996 by the then   government and aimed at providing housing for slum dwellers. Developers get the consent of 70% of slumdwellers and construct new tenements for them. In return as a cross subsidy, they get to build towers for sale in the open market in a portion of the plot.
 
