AHMEDABAD: City police were left red-faced after an NRI, Rajen Patel, managed to record his conversation with one Mehul Koteja, who demanded $25,000 from Patel, inside  , if he wanted to get rid of a case. Patel mailed his complaint to home minister   and to city police commissioner A K Singh.

 Singh rushed to Sardarnagar police station on Wednesday night. He then handed over the case to Manjeeta Vanzara, ACP, F Division, who arrested Koteja late on Thursday evening.
 
 Police sources said the CP suspected involvement of senior officials of Sardarnagar police station and G Division in the attempted extortion.
 
 Koteja, the accused, is known to be a businessman who liaisons for many police officials and is a regular visitor to several police stations, including the cybercrime cell office at Shahibaug, said sources.
 
 “The CP found that Koteja used to facilitate illegal dealings for a police constable who acts as ‘vahivatdar’. He summoned both ACP  , and inspector   of Sardarnagar police station, and reprimanded them,” said a police official.
 
 According to police sources, Patel and his wife, hailing from Anand and current residents of Florida, USA, were apprehended on December 15 after they arrived from America.
 
 “Both were apprehended on charges that their passports in India had been renewed in their absence. They were whisked away to Sardarnagar police station,” said a police official.
 
 Top police officials said the couple was made to sit in a room meant for the police inspector’s personal staff, where Koteja approached them and started clicking their pictures.
 
 Kotejathen took them outside the room – to the compound of the police station, where he threatened they won’t be able to get rid of the case, unless they paid him $25,000.
 
 “Patel recorded the conversation on his cellphone, promised to pay the amount soon, and left for his house. He then mailed his complaint to MoS Home Pradeepsinh Jadeja and city police chief AK Singh” said a top police official.
 
 “We suspect that Koteja also works for some other police officials and facilitates collection of bribes and extortion money for them,” a police official said.
 
