KOLKATA: Angered by   MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay’s arrest by   in the   on Tuesday, a mob of party supporters on Wednesday descended on Union minister Babul Supriyo’s north Kolkata home, where his parents live. Though they were prevented from entering the apartment premises, what took place for around half-an-hour was described by the BJP as “nothing short of an attack”. 

 Around 11.45am, more than 100 Trinamool workers arrived at Pearl Apartment on Kailash Bose Street near Srimani market, trying to storm in, shouting slogans. But cops from the Amherst Street police station, who already had tip-off on the protest, had stationed themselves at the spot and stopped the mob from entering by putting up barricades and guard rails at the main gate. “The men jumped on the barricades, rushing towards the cops. We saw how BJP workers and offices were attacked last evening and no one dared to venture out of the complex,” said a housewife in the complex. Though the Trinamool supporters outnumbered the cops, the police managed to deflect the mob. That the cops walked away immediately after the protesters left led BJP state president Dilip Ghosh to call the exercise a “sham”, where the police “acted as puppets in the hands of the ruling party”.
 
 Babul’s parents had never imagined that such a scary drama would play out in front of their home where they had been living for the past 11 years. Barely five minutes had not passed since his father Sunil, Chandra Baral, had returned home that the violent protest erupted. Though they were “safe in the confines of their home”, the couple feared for another round of protest in the evening. Babul’s mother, Sumitra Baral, was aware of the protests taking place at different parts of the city after Bandyopadhyay’s arrested but she never imagined it would reach their doorsteps. “True my son is into politics and the Trinamool has been violent towards him. But I don’t know why an entire apartment was targeted. They burnt the BJP flag, raised slogans. They tried to break the barricade in front of our complex,” she said. 
 
 Sunil Baral had gone to the bank in the morning. “While returning, I found a barricade outside our complex. I was about to leave again, for the market, when the guards warmed us a mob had gathered outside the gate,” said Sunil, standing at the window of a relative’s flat, watching the protest downstairs. The couple is worried about their son. “We don’t want him to be in Kolkata now. The problem is he didn’t listen. He will not stay back to just protect us. We fear he would be attacked if he goes out on the street to stand by his colleagues,” Sumitra said.
 
 Babul later took to Twitter to vent his anger over the Trinamool protest: “TMC goons trying to break open the gate of my apartment in Kailash Bose Street where my Mum, Dad are staying. What a shame”... “Didi is saying she has enough evidence about my involvement in the Rose Valley Scam. I am requesting her to provide all documents to the CBI. Now, they are targeting me and Trinamool supporters have attacked my house. What are the police doing there? Aren’t they responsible for providing security to all those residing in that building including my parents.”
 
 BJP leaders and residents alike questioned the logic behind targeting BJP functionaries’ homes. “While every party has the right to protest, they cannot pick personal fights, that too, when aged parents are involved,” said a neighbour, Satish Chandra.
 
 Trinamool, however, denied having committed any wrong. “We protested in the most peaceful manner. We are within our rights to protest against CBI turning a stooge for BJP’s whims and fancies. We organized the protest after noon, according to the CM’s orders. We had no intention of putting anyone in trouble,” said a local Trinamool leader, Sajal Ghosh.
 
 
