CORTALIM: Cortalim is currently represented by Alina Saldanha, the lone Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) woman MLA, who was elected unopposed from the constituency in the 2012 bypolls held after the sudden death of her husband and BJP MLA Matanhy Saldanha. The 2017 assembly elections sees as many as 10 candidates in the fray for the Cortalim seat.

 Since 2012, the popularity of the ruling party has waned, and the BJP candidate for Cortalim is no longer as formidable. That the BJP’s hold over Cortalim has loosened was obvious after the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, when the party got a slender lead of 626 votes from the constituency. Most of the candidates from here are either from the OBC, ST or SC category, which forms the chunk of the voters here.
 
 The BJP has a sizeable vote in the constituency, but there is high possibility of those votes getting divided among the candidates: Ramakant Borkar of the United Goans (UG), Suman Sharma of the   (MGP), Sharan Meti of the   (GSM), Nelly Rodrigues of the Goa Vikas Party (GVP), Olencio Simoes of the   (AAP), Gilbert Mariano Rodrigues of the Congress, Gilroy Costa of the Goa Praja Party (GPP), Antonio Vas and Minguel Antonio Rodrigues, both of whom are running as independents, and Saldanha. 
 
 Sharma, who is from Uttar Pradesh, runs an NGO. Meti, who is from Karnataka, is a panch member, and Rodrigues is a teacher in MES college.
 
 The constituency is a mixed bag of communities and castes. In areas like Sancoale, Zaurinagar and Upasnagar there is a sizeable Hindu as well as Muslim electorate. Zuarinagar itself has a vote bank of 12,000 migrants.
 
 Areas like Cortalim, Thana and Quelossim have a chunk of OBC and ST voters. Christians dominate villages like Velsao, Cansaulim and Arossim. Then there are the traditional fishermen who dominate villages along the coastline.
 
 A sizeable number of voters in Cortalim, Thana, Cuelim and partly Quelossim are likely to back Vas, as he has been in touch with his community and has been providing them with harvesters. The other chunk of voters are influenced by sarpanch Anthony Miranda, who is said to be in Nelly’s camp. These are the areas other candidates have not paid much attention. Nelly herself admitted that she has been in touch with the people only for the last two years.
 
 Zuarinagar, Upasnagar and partly Sancoale are areas where the votes are going to get divided the most because of the huge migrant population. Meti, who has been the sarpanch, and Sharma are surely going to corner a healthy share of the 12,000-strong migrant votes. AAP too, is going to get a fair share in Zuarinagar as Delhi health minister   had visited the slums and shown the dwellers films of mohalla clinics run by AAP in Delhi.
 
 The remaining villages of Velsao, Cansaulim, Arossim and Cuelim are dominated by Christians. Alina hails from Cansaulim and will garner personal votes, but Matanhy’s confidantes, including leaders of traditional fishermen, have distanced themselves from Alina and the BJP. This is likely to affect Matanhy’s original vote bank.
 
 Simoes, who is Matanhy’s nephew, has, over the years, built a solid rapport with the traditional fishermen, who are likely to stand by him.
 
 Many of the students from these villages learn at the MES college, and families of these students may lean towards Nelly Rodrigues.
 
 Development in the constituency will also play a big role in deciding the voting pattern. The general feeling is that BJP stalled many of Alina’s projects, like the much-needed overhead bridge for vehicular movement at the railway crossing at Cansaulim, and four laning of the Cansaulim-Verna road. This, the villagers feel, is not their MLA’s fault, but the BJP’s. It is not that she has not achieved anything. A small bridge, initiated by her predecessor, was completed at her behest. She also carried out asphalting of roads.
 
 Some voters here are of the opinion that Alina would have fared better in the upcoming elections if she contested in her individual capacity. 
 
 Another important issue is the greenfield airport at Mopa. The parish priest of Sancoale Church is in the forefront of the agitation against the airport. Though Matanhy had emphatically said no to the construction of another airport at Mopa, Alina has not been so vociferous, thereby further alienating herself from voters, who earn their livelihood from tourism.
 
 All said and done, the February 4 poll is likely to play out between the sitting MLA, AAP’s Simoes, GVP’s Rodrigues and independent candidate Vas.
 
