CHENNAI: When the state appeared before a commission on Thursday to file a counter affidavit on compensation for 18 people who contracted a viral infection undergoing dialysis at   and Hospital, a family sat grieving in Red Hills. Three children had lost their father; he died waiting, not for the money but a kidney that was promised.

 On Wednesday evening, Kotteeswaran B, 49, died at the hospital, three days after being admitted with fever and diarrhoea. He was one of 16 patients diagnosed with   while undergoing dialysis at the hospital in August, 2014. Two others, similarly treated at the unit, are fighting to be included in the victims’ list as their infection came to light later.
 
 Since 2014, eight of the 18 died of various complications; none, doctors say, is linked to the viral infection. Three died after undergoing kidney transplant.
 
 Kotteeswaran’s wife Chandrakala said her daily wager husband was upbeat about receiving a kidney. “Doctors asked us to wait for the viral load to decrease. Two months ago, they said he was ready,” she said. He lost consciousness by Sunday morning, and was declared dead on Wednesday evening. His death didn’t just rob the family of a breadwinner, it left it neck-deep in debt.
 
 Hospital dean Dr   said Kotteeswaran’s blood pressure dropped drastically and he died of chronic kidney disease coupled with septicemia an infection of the blood. The other deaths were attributed to immunological problems, sudden cardiac arrest, lung infections and pneumonia.
 
 In November 2014, three months after the HCV cases came to light, an internal committee said most were “likely to have acquired HCV infection in Stanley hospital”, as they had done dialysis only at the institution before being diagnosed with the infection. The Madras high court on Tuesday directed the state health department to pay compensation. Although 16 of them got 5 lakh each, the final compensation will be decided by a one-member commission set up this year.
 
 Jayaram Venkatesan of Mylapore who filed a petition on the patients’ behalf said there could be more who contracted the infection. “The government is reluctant to track the others who could have been hooked to the same contaminated machine but were not at the hospital when the issue was brought to light,” he said, adding that he had traced two such people in   and Chennai. “The government insists they acquired the infection from other hospitals, but they tested positive for HCV during initial screening itself,” he said. One of them, a 44-year-old woman, died in 2014. 
 
 Meanwhile, families of survivors, all of who continue to go for dialysis thrice in a week, say doctors at Stanley hospital are tightlipped about their transplant. “They initially said we would have to wait for the viral load to go down. That was the last time we saw those doctors,” said Lakshmi*. Another patient’s husband private hospitals were also reluctant to do a transplant because of their infection. “Two of the hospitals we approached refused to do even a dialysis,” he said. In 2014, he was all set to donate his kidney. “The tests revealed we were a match. The transplant was supposed to take place in August, but that’s when she was diagnosed with the infection,” he said. Of the 18 – the youngest being a 19-year-old -- only one has undergone a successful kidney transplant.
 
 Although the treatment is free, patients say the cost of transport and food, and loss of one or both wages have led to mounting expenses. 
 
 Nephrologist Dr Georgi Abraham said while all the reasons stated by the government hospital for the cause of death seemed plausible, the government should do a death audit on why the three transplants failed. “Once that is done, transplant should be considered seriously for the other patients,” he said.
 
