LUDHIANA: A youth in his mid 20's has been booked for allegedly forcing a minor boy to have oral sex with him at a village in Samrala and later uploading the video on a social networking website.

 Parents of the boy saw the video after it went viral and brought it to the notice of cops.
 
 The accused lived in the boy’s neighbourhood. Boy’s parents claimed that their 17-year-old son studied in a government school in a neighbouring village. They added that on August 16, 2016, their son was going to school when the accused offered him lift on his two-wheeler saying that he would drop him at the school.
 
 The complainant said the accused then took their son to his motor room in the fields and forcibly did oral sex with him. They added that as the accused threatened the boy of dire consequences if he revealed anything about the incident to anyone,their son did not disclose about the incident to anyone. 
 
 Police officials said that the incident came to light when the video clip of the act went viral after it was uploaded on a social networking site.
 
 When boy’s parents brought the video to the notice of cops, Samrala police officials started an investigation into the matter.
 
 Police booked the accused under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the Information and Technology Act.
 
 Assistant sub-inspector and investigating officer of the case Satpal Singh said the accused is on the run and raids are being conducted to arrest him. He added that the accused knew the boy from childhood which is why he went with him on the day of crime.
 
 Police officials said even though it was suspected that the accused might have uploaded the clip on Facebook, they would verify the same after the accused was arrested. They added that cops are also probing whether the accused was blackmailing the boy and doling out some monetary benefits from him.
 
 Cops said victim remained under mental stress after the incident as he didn’t share his pain with parents. They added that the accused had studied up to Class XII and had knowledge about computers and social media.
 
 
 
 
 Five men in their 20s allegedly sodomized a 13-year-old boy from their village inside a tubewell room. On December 3, one of the accused allegedly fired at boy’s father after he refused to reach a compromise and take back the case against them
 
 A drug addict allegedly sodomized a five-year-old child at Hargobind Nagar area. The accused was in his 20s.
 
 Daba police booked unidentified miscreant for allegedly sodomizing a mentally unstable minor in the same area.
 
