TIRUVANNAMALAI/VELLORE: After 10 anxious and depressing days, the family of 32- year-old Manimaran received his body on Saturday after postmortem was conducted at the Government   Hospital in Vellore.

 A day after TOI reported the agony and humiliation of the family (Family runs from Pillar to post to get 32 yr-old man’s body), the Vellore Police took action and filed a case under section 174 CrPC to facilitate the post-mortem of Manimaran, a native of Kalambur village in   of  , at the  
 
  He died around 7.30 pm on April 19, a few hours after being admitted. The hospital authorities refused to perform autopsy and hand over the body, citing medico-legal issues as the doctors found stab injury on his abdomen. 
 
 From April 20 to April 29, the family of Manimaran, a truck cleaner, were made to run from pillar to post by the Telangana and Tamil Nadu police. “I still don’t understand why the police of two states failed to look into the grievance of family which lost one of its members,” said Manimaran’s brother-in-law Balamurugan.
 
 Manimaran went to work along with his neighbour Munusamy on April 10. After reaching Medchal, 40 kms from Secunderabad, with shampoo sachet loads, Manimaran got Rs 1,000 from truck driver Munusamy to return home on time for the temple festival on April 13. However, he was not heard until April 16.
 
 Manimaran’s sister Malathi received a telephone call on April 16 from him. He told her that he was not well and was starving for three days. Malathi, with the help of her relatives, brought him to Vellore on April 19 and admitted him in the GVMCH.
 
 Manimaran was reportedly assaulted and robbed in Secunderabad, and had allegedly sustained a stab injury on his abdomen. “We submitted a petition to senior police officers in Tiruvannamalai that we will take responsibility, if anything goes wrong. But the police did nothing to address our plea,” said Balmurugan.
 
 For Manimaran’s family, each passing day became harder than the earlier day. “No one can understand how we felt all these days. We were able to put him (Manimaran) to rest 10 days after his demise,” he said. 
 
 The police personnel refused to act promptly to redress the grievance of a hapless family. At last, the National Human Rights Commission and the report published in a newspaper helped to address the issue. The police finally filed a case under section 174 (suspicious death) CrPC. Following this, Manimaran’s body was handed over to his family at about 4.30 pm on Saturday after post-mortem.
 
 Investigation Officer Bharathi, Sub –inspector of  , said that she filed the copy following direction from Superintendent of Police P Pakalavan.
 
 SP Pakalavan told TOI that he came to know about the issue on Saturday and immediately spoke to his counterpart in Tiruvannamalai to establish the identity of the deceased. “After confirming his identity, we speed up the procedure and handed over the body,” he said.
 
 
