For the past six months, resi dents of Mahatma Gandhi Vasahat in Pandharemala, Ha dapsar, have had to bear with miscreants illegally selling cannabis on their streets, the authorities turning a deaf ear to repeated complaints across the police ranks.On Friday, Pune Mirror visited the area and spotted the open sale of the contraband inside one of the houses. The residents caught one person red handed with the packets of weed and later handed him over to the cops.Milind Mandare, a local resident, told Mirror, “Around six months ago, a person named   came to live in our area at a single storeyed house, along with his family members and a few other men. Since then, he and his men have been selling weed packets from their house and various other spots in the slum. At first, we tried to tell him politely to stop this illegal sale, as it was ruining the reputation of this residential area, apart from being harmful for the residents, especially women and children. Thereafter, we have repeatedly complained about it to the Hadapsar police station and highlevel police officers, but no firm action has been taken yet.“

 The locals had first approached the Hadapsar police station, before speaking to the assistant police commissioner of the area. Finally, they had even knocked on the doors of the Pune police commissioner, but to no avail. Around 5.30 in the evening, a Mirror team visited the area and the residents gathered around, pointing to the house from where the illegal sale of cannabis was being conducted. A man in a black T-shirt, who was selling the weed packets, was also in the area. As soon as he saw the team trying to capture him on camera, he began to flee. But the residents managed to catch hold of him and several weed packets were recovered from his pocket. In the meantime, Khan came out of the house.At first, he denied that cannabis was being sold illegally from his premises. But later, when the person selling the weed was caught, Khan said, "I will stop selling cannabis from now on and also tell all my men."
 
 Babu Nambiar, another resident, said, "They sell weed illegally round the clock and sit in the two damaged four-wheelers on the road outside, smoking the contraband.When some of our men from the slum tried to stop them, they threatened us, saying that will call their goons and beat us up.Whenever we dialled 100 for police help, the policemen usually came after two hours, and sometimes they did not come at all. Some of the local youths are now addicted to this weed as it is easily available in the area itself."
 
 This illegal sale has raised serious safety concerns for the women and children residing in the slums.Archana Shelke rued, "Customers who are on the lookout for the cannabis randomly knock at our doors at odd hours in the night.Also, these men who sell the weed are a big group. They keep passing lewd comments about our girls and tease them often. We cannot send our children out to play out of fear, as these people are all around, selling weed and other illegal things."
 
 When Mirror contacted  , assistant commissioner of police (Wanowrie division), under whose jurisdiction this area falls, he insisted, "Today itself, we have caught one person for selling weed illegally from the Pandharemala area. Our policemen are taking continuous action on the illegal sale of weed. We keep constant vigilance on such illegal activities and the miscreants involved. None will be spared. People keep on criticising the police, saying that we don't take action. But that is not true. Our personnel are always alert and take prompt action on this illegal sale from this area."
 
