New Delhi: Of the measures taken by   government to boost healthcare in Delhi, perhaps it is the   that has cheered the citizens the most. But then, of course, after the first clinic began in July 2015 in Punjabi Basti in Peeragarhi, the government had promised 1,000 of them by 2016 and only 107 are up and running. A government official claimed that 200 more will be inaugurated in state-run schools by year-end.

 While missing the target, the clinics that are functional have come as a big boon for the people. At Panchsheel Vihar in south Delhi, for instance, people gather at the rented building where the   is housed an hour before the doctor arrives. Gulista Parveen, who was there with eight-year-old Altamas, said that her son had a throat infection that left him barely able to talk. “The big sarkari hospitals have doctors, of course,” said Parveen, “but the tests take too long and we also often have to buy medicines outside, so we prefer coming to this clinic.”
 
 Rubina Begum, 26, who is expecting a child, travels 6km from Sangam Vihar to Panchsheel Vihar because the weekly tests prescribed by her doctors at Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital are free at the clinic. She added that the doctors at the Mohalla Clinic were more patient unlike those always in a hurry at the big hospitals.
 
 Recently, Kofi Annan, former secretary general of the United Nations, praised this initiative of the AAP government. His letter to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal described the scheme as “successful and impressive” and added, “…you have scaled up the provision of universal free health services, most notably in providing free primary healthcare services through your new Mohalla Clinics”.
 
 While the first Mohalla Clinic offered lab services, the newer ones have representatives of private labs empanelled with the government to take care of these. “We invited quotations from all NABL-accredited labs and approached those offering the maximum discounts,” an official revealed. The government, he added, also got private doctors as consultants on a fee of Rs 30 per patient.
 
 The secondary-level healthcare polyclinics haven’t proved as successful. The 23 polyclinics have poor infrastructure, and specialists visiting them complain that the government has merely re-named existing dispensaries as polyclinics. “A polyclinic actually needs to have basic equipment such as X-ray and ECG, a minor OT and a well-equipped lab to treat patients with serious ailments that do not require admission,” a doctor pointed out.
 
 The scheme for free medicines in hospitals, a promise made by Kejriwal on the AAP government’s first anniversary, also faltered, forcing the chief minister to recently issue a show-cause notice to the chief secretary after being flooded with complaints about unavailability of medicines.
 
 While appreciating the health system comprising a mohalla clinic, polyclinic and a tertiary care hospital, an expert, however, pointed out, “The quality of care provided is as important as adding facilities for the scheme to be a success.”
 
 
