NAGPUR: A day after its historic win in the civic polls, the city BJP’s top brass credited the success to preparations that began in last April and a spate of development works being carried out under Union minister   and chief minister  .

 Speaking to the media on Friday, city BJP chief Sudhakar Kohle said that the party has many plans to develop and promote Nagpur in a big way during the next five-year tenure. “We would try to fulfil all assurances made in the party’s manifesto. We’re thankful to the citizens for giving us another chance with a thumping mandate,” he said.
 
 Kohle was accompanied by MP Vikas Mahatme, MLCs Anil Sole,   and NG Ganar, MLAs Sudhakar Deshmukh, Milind Mane, Krishna Khopde and Vikas Kumbhare, along with mayor (outgoing) Pravin Datke, Jamal Siddiqui, Deven Dasture and Rajesh Bagdia among others.
 
 The preparations for polls began on April 6 last year and continued till polling. “Over 10,000 workers from 84 places started reaching out to people from the party’s foundation day. We had organized residential training camps for over 7,200 activists from all wards from November 20 to December 5. Later, we conducted a massive public contact programme from December 10 to 31 where we reached over five lakh homes,” Kohle said.
 
 “Another 3,000 activists were involved in the booth verification campaign. We tried hard to convey developmental works carried out by the central and state governments as well NMC to the people,” the MLA said.
 
 On the selection of new mayor, he said though there was no such criteria like educational qualifications, appointment of a “knowledgeable” person was important. “It would be done on March 5 as announced earlier,” Kohle said.
 
 On lack of development initially, Kohle blamed many factors including shortage of funds and imposition of local body tax. “But in the last couple of years, we’ve carried out a series of developmental works that include new 24x7 water supply. We’ve replaced old pipelines and laid over 400km of new pipelines. Now, we have enough water that would last for over 40 years,” the city BJP chief said.
 
 He, however, granted clean chit to the candidates with criminal background or with low educational qualifications who were given tickets by the party. “Even the Constitution of India makes it clear that unless convicted, they couldn’t be held guilty. A majority of charges levelled against the contestants were of minor nature. They can’t be termed as criminals,” he said.
 
 Kohle refused to take back rebels who revolted and contested from different parties. “They’re expelled for six years. We will see if they do some good work in future. But we would discuss loss of major candidates like Ramesh Shingare and Bandu Raut on where we went wrong,” he said, refusing to comment on the loss of candidates in Ward No 38 where   and others from   grabbed three seats.
 
