PANAJI: The  's proposed changes in   ( ) I, to allow, among other changes, temporary structures for tourism in  , have not gone down well with  , as they feel it will be detrimental to the environment already under stress. 

 The changes are proposed in the draft Marine and Coastal Regulation Zone notification 2017 and a major proposal is allowing "temporary tourism facilities" in ecologically sensitive areas under CRZ 1.
 
  Activists in Goa stated that they have not accessed the proposals in detail, but said that the changes would be opposed. "The proposed changes are likely to be detrimental to the environment and we will strongly oppose them," social activist, Kashinath Shetye said. 
 
 Alleging that the government is introducing the changes to appease the vote bank, he said that the changes would lead to encroachments in ecologically fragile areas. 
 
 Environmental lawyer Norma Alvares said that the centre's proposal violates the spirit of the CRZ notification. "It trivializes the concept of CRZ, which gives absolute protection to certain zones in order to preserve them in their natural form," she stated.
 
 CRZ 1 is a no-development zone (NDZ), and it means that any form of development - permanent or temporary is prohibited here, except for certain specific activities in the national interest.
 
 "No exception is needed for tourists who visit such areas to experience the beauty of nature," Alvares said.
 
 Another activist agreed and said, " Even allowing these activities on a temporary basis would defeat the purpose of CRZ," he said.
 
 The estuarine areas in Goa, where the waters are partly saline and brackish, are very fragile, and they are important in terms of supporting diversity of marine and terrestrial life, the activist said and added, "If development is allowed, it may change the morphology of the ecologically sensitive area."
 
 Goa has four beaches Mandrem and Morjim in North Goa and Agonda and Galgibaga in South Goa which are turtle nesting sites under CRZ 2011. Activists are worried that any changes may further affect the arrival of the flippered visitors. "Any development which brings illumination to turtle nesting sites will prove detrimental," a turtle lover said.
 
 Olencio Simoes of Goa Ramponkarancho Ekvott said that hardly any action has been initiated in case of hundreds of violations in the past. "They keep on passing the buck and these changes will only lead to further displacement of traditional coastal dwellers and fishermen," he said. 
 
 The government assured to look into regularization of fishermen's structures prior to 1991. "But not even a committee has been appointed and fishermen in Baina have been served demolition notices," he said.
 
