PILIBHIT: After clearing 277 acres of   of encroachers at Barua Kuthara village earlier in the week, the Pilibhit tiger reserve authorities are now preparing to reclaim other forest lands. Over 3,750 acres of forest land, valued at Rs 400 crore, are still in the hands of the land mafia.
 
 Taking a tough stand in the matter, divisional forest officer Kailsh Prakash said the forest department will now start lodging FIRs against unauthorized occupiers of forest land under section 51 C of the Wildlife Protection Act under which a convicted person can be jailed for a period between three and seven years.
  
 “As punitive action was never enforced by the department against land encroachers, the fear of law could not be exerted upon them,” Prakash said. Now, stringent action would be initiated against those who were evicted from the forest land of Barua Kuthara village, he added.
  
 Revenue lawyer and counsel for the forest department   alleged that vast tracks of forest land were occupied by the land mafia because of the duplicity of revenue officials who “illegally allotted” such land on lease in many parts of PTR. She also blamed previous DFOs who deliberately overlooked the issue of illegal occupation of land.
  
 The department is now preparing to take over 1,005 acres of land at Veerkhera village in Puranpur tehsil. But the revenue department here has claimed that it does not have a map of the village. DFO Prakash has now requested that the map be arranged from the headquarters of the state revenue board.
  
 Prakash said, “Over ,1005 acres of land had been exchanged with   in 1974 and the deal was approved by the state government.”
  
 The forest department had transferred its land situated at Dandaul, Ghungchai and Lalpur villages under Puranpur tehsil to the samiti in exchange for the same area at Veerkhera village. However, in reality, the samiti never gave up possession of the forest land, the DFO said.
  
 “For the past 42 years, the matter has been hanging fire. But when legal proceedings were initiated in April this year for taking over the Veerkhera land for demarcation by the revenue department, SDM of   said the map of Veerkhera was not available at the revenue record room, Prakash said.
  
 Prakash said now he has sought a copy of the map from the state revenue board, Lucknow. After he gets it, possession of forest land at Veerkhera would be resumed. He added that during his two-year tenure, he had succeeded in freeing 467 acre of forest land from encroachers.
  
 The value of the land reclaimed by the department so far ranges between Rs 10 to 25 lakh per acre depending on location and soil fertility, forest officials said.
