On Saturday morning, an excited bunch of 25-30 school students were seen managing traffic near the   and Rashtrapati Bhavan. This was a part of an initiative by the   to educate students about traffic norms.

  To train school students in road safety, the Delhi Traffic Police is organising a summer camp at the Traffic Park in the capital. The camp, which started on May 15, will continue till June 9 and is divided into four batches. In this camp, each batch of students will be given a week-long training.
 
 The cops told us that they have two main agendas- first, to encourage youngsters to convince their parents to follow traffic norms, and second, to curb underage driving, a fact that has led to a sharp rise in accidents in the capital in recent times. 
 
  
  As part of the traffic police's initiative, students from Delhi man the traffic near the Rashtrapati Bhavan with cops (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 Talking about how their parents flout traffic norms, Raju Mishra, a Class VII student, said, "When it comes to violating traffic rules, I think not just us, but our parents are at fault, too! My elder brother is just 15 years old, but he has a bike and even takes mom to the temple when she asks him to. He can't have a driving licence, surely. They don't let me ride the bike, par abhi toh woh bhi chhota hai. I won't let him ride now and I will call the traffic police if he does not listen to me." Another student, Neeraj Sharma, a Class IX student, said, "My father drives very fast and thinks that he can get away with speeding just by paying fine! Mere papa bolte hain ki Rs200 do aur niklo. The first thing I told my father after undergoing the traffic training was, 'Papa rules todna chhor do'." 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  (L-R)  , special commissioner of police (Traffic), Delhi, and Amulya Patnaik, commissioner of police, Delhi, at the inauguration of the summer camp (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
 Traffic cops said that with so many youngsters confessing that they break traffic rules and drive despite being below 18, they are convinced that the number of minor offenders are much more than what the official data suggests. "We believe these camps will make students aware about traffic rules," said Geeta, a traffic sub-inspector. Meanwhile, most of the students told us that they have committed the offence of underage driving. A student of Class XII said, "It's scary to think that I could have been arrested for underage driving. It left me shaken but I didn't know that it's an offence. I will not commit the same mistakes now."
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  
 
 
