Indore: One of the city’s oldest government colleges, Government   Science College, has come forward to encourage students to pursue higher education and also to show several confused students a way to choose courses after Class XII.

 With admissions nearing, the college has started a ‘College chale hum’ campaign to spread awareness among school kids and graduate students.
 
 The college professors have interacted with school students who appeared for board exams this year. They have also interacted with school teachers and principals to get in touch with students so that they can look into a number of career options that students generally do not look at.
 
 “The interest area of a student is very limited and they do not know the details about various career options and courses available to them in streams they choose in Class XI and XII. Students do not understand that Science does not only mean the medical field. It has many sub parts, for example forensic science, that is considered very important these days,” said professor KN Chaturvedi, dean of Holkar Science College.
 
 This is not only for urban students but for those from small towns like Khargone, Barwani, Khandwa to get expert help from Holkar College professors.
 
 “Students from rural areas are informed according to their potential and talent. They are told about horticulture courses at various colleges they can pursue,” added Chaturvedi. These students are also informed about career options once they choose their courses.
 
 After receiving feedback from a number of students about their fear of physics, the college is working towards popularising the subject thorugh various interactions and hidden career options in the field.
 
 The physics professors here have interacted with school teachers to plan ways to popularise Physics and reduce the fear of this subject among students. Students are also informed about various government schemes and scholarships that students can avail and pursue their higher education at a lower cost.
 
 The college began this campaign after instructions from the directorate of higher education.
 
 
