SHIMLA: Having faced criticism from its own state president over not delivering on its promise of given an   to the jobless, the   government in   may make an announcement on the issue when it rolls out with the state budget on March 10, sources privy to talks in the party’s state leadership have said. 

 Chief minister   is expected to make the announcement in his budget speech. The development comes at a time when Himachal Pradesh Congress president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu has been speaking out against his own party over the issue.
 
 Virbhadra Singh on Wednesday said that unemployment allowance issue should not have been discussed in the open and should have been limited to discussions within the party. Without naming anyone, he said the issue was raised for cheap publicity.
 
 After attending the budget session, Virbhadra Singh held a meeting with his loyalists, including some ministers and MLAs, to discuss the possibility of making announcement about the unemployment allowance in the budget speech, the sources said.
 
 The sources added that a detailed discussion was also held on the financial implication of making the announcement and it was informed that around Rs 100 crore would be required each year for the allowance. “Most likely, the announcement could be made in the budget speech on March 10 and the allowance may be given from this year only,” the sources said.
 
 The Congress had promised an unemployment allowance in its manifesto for 2012 assembly election, but had failed to give the same after coming to power. Now, with elections round the corner, Congress leaders — transport minister G S Bali, Rajya Sabha MP Viplove Thakur and Sukhu — had started questioning their own government on the issue.
 
 A senior leader of the party who is also a Virbhadra loyalist said the way Sukhu was cornering his own government was sending wrong signals to voters. Chairing a meeting in Shimla on February 27, Sukhu had announced that a consensus must be reached on unemployment allowance. He had later called a meeting of all Congress district units on March 5 and even met the CM On Tuesday.
 
 Bali has announced to hold rallies first at Nagrota in Kangra district on March 25 followed by second rally in Dharamshala with the help of Himachal Youth United Movement. Bali said he would personally help the unemployed youth and would call industrialists from within and outside country to provide employment to them.
 
 In a Facebook post, he expressed worry on the fact that 13% population of state was unemployed and wondered whether state governments faltered or delayed in framing policy for unemployed. 
 
 
