AHMEDABAD: After having made its mark on India’s auto manufacturing map, Gujarat is now hoping to emerge as the preferred destination for the production of  .   has already announced its plans to set up an electric car plant in Gujarat.   and MG Motor India, a subsidiary of  , may also make electric or hybrid vehicles at their plants in the state.

 JSW Energy, a part of Sajjan Jindal-led JSW group, on Tuesday inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Gujarat government for setting up a production facility for electric vehicles as well as electrical batteries and energy solutions, at Vaanod near Dasada, Surendranagar. The project cost is estimated to be Rs 4,000 crore.
 
 SMC along with its joint venture partners — Toshiba and Denso — is investing around Rs 1,150 crore for lithium-ion battery factory in the state. The company is reportedly mulling production of electric cars at its newly operationalized car plant at Hansalpur in Mandal taluka of Ahmedabad district. The state government sources, however, maintained that Suzuki is planning to make hybrid cars at its plant.
 
 “We expect Gujarat to be the next electric and hybrid vehicle manufacturing hub with new plants coming up in the state,” said Manoj Das, principal secretary, industry and mines department, of the Gujarat government. “Companies such as Suzuki, JSW Energy and SAIC are considering the possibility to make electric vehicles in the state.” Another manufacturer has inked an agreement with the Gujarat government for an electric bikes factory in the state.
 
 MG Motors India executive director P Balendran, said, “We will be open to various business opportunities depending upon the market demand. However, we have not yet finalized our product programme.” The company, which has taken over General Motors plant at Halol near Vadodara, is expected to start production by the middle of 2019.
 
 Tata Motors, which operates its car plant at Sanand, is also mulling an electric version of its small car Nano. Apart from Tata, Gujarat is home to auto plants of Ford, SMC and Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India (HMSI) and several auto ancillary units.
 
 
