Have you fought with your partner on something stupid, and laughed about the same later? Well, it happens! Every  . People take time to strike an understanding in a relationship, and fights (aka healthy arguments) only make the relationship stronger. 

  Sometimes, fights are on petty topics that actually deserve to be taken with a grain of salt. We asked people about the most idiotic fights they ever had with their better half, and here’s what they had to say…
 
  
 
  “Two years back, my girlfriend read an idiotic story online about a girl who got cheated by her 7-year-old boyfriend. She immediately called me to give a lecture on why all boys are the same and did not talk to me for the next three days. Later, she called to apologise and admitted being stupid.” Himanshu Singh, 29
 
  
 
  “It was our first Valentine’s Day and I specially purchased a handbag for my girlfriend. When we met, she gifted me a tablet, and I was taken aback for first few minutes! Imagine, a handbag competing with a tablet. She got little furious, and fought with me for not making her feel special. We were in college first year at that time, and she expected me to arrange flowers, ring, candlelight dinner…all the Bollywood stuff. Now, after 6 years of being together, we cherish the memories of that date.”- Mudit Singh, 24
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  “Once I was pissed off with my boyfriend because he turned up an hour late on our date. We had a little argument and he literally asked me if I was menstruating or not. He said I am irritated because of my period, and not because he’s late. We had another huge argument on his futile logic. Now, we laugh thinking about it.”- Sneha Joshi, 26
 
 
 
  “My husband is a foodie and fought with me once because I ate his share of pizza. I offered to order another one but he refused and literally warned me to not do it ever again. He reminded me of character Joey from Friends.”- Nitya Shukla, 31
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  “When we were newly married, my wife accused me of being mean and uncaring simply because I used to slip the entire blanket on my side unintentionally while sleeping. She was quite miffed about this, so I gifted her a new blanket to calm her down. Now, she accepts being kiddish at that time.” Rohaan Upadhyay, 34
 
 
  (*Names changed on request, Images: Shutterstock)
 
 
