NAINITAL: Major irregularities relating to funds and promotions of employees have been unearthed at the   of Observational Sciences (ARIES), a premier autonomous research facility under the Union ministry of science and technology. The findings in an audit report indicate that 26 posts were created without the approval of the Union ministry of finance, payments to employees were irregular, upgradation of payscale of the institute’s then director was made without due authorization, and 14 scientists were promoted arbitrarily, all causing financial losses that allegedly run into crores of rupees.

 The audit report, prepared by the office of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) was obtained through an   application by a Nainital resident. “The creation of 26 posts without the approval of the Union finance ministry was in violation of rules and resulted in irregular payment of salary and allowances to the employees recruited in excess of sanctioned posts,” said the report.
 
 The salary of then ARIES director Ram Sagar was also allegedly upgraded twice, in April 2004 and August 2006, without the approval of the Union ministry. “Neither the governing council of ARIES nor the department of science and technology were competent to upgrade posts or pay scales of employees. Total monetary benefit of Rs 43.73 lakh was allowed to the former director,” added the report.
 
 Sagar, who is facing serious criminal charges, was sent to jail by a special   court in Dehradun on October 28, 2014, before being granted bail by   High Court in December that year. The CAG report stated that ARIES, with the approval of its governing council in April 2008 “devised its own policy” under which promotions were granted to 14 scientists “in violation” of central government rules, resulting in “inadmissible payments” of Rs 65.42 lakh.
 
 Other financial irregularities include failed recovery of Rs 20.82 lakh from contractors as labour cess, recovery of Rs 83.29 lakh work contract tax resulting in “undue benefits” to contractors, expenditure of Rs 53.90 lakh on development of a telescope which produced no results and another Rs 35.90 lakh spent on procuring equipment which was not used for cited purposes. The CAG report also criticized ARIES for not maintaining project files.
 
 The institute in Nainital, which specializes in observational astronomy, astrophysics and atmospheric sciences, had received much praise from PM   in 2016 for playing a key role in building Asia's largest general purpose optical telescope, which was activated by him remotely while on a visit to Belgium in March last year. 
 
 The 50-year old State Observatory at Nainital was rechristened on March 22, 2004 as ARIES. The Observatory came into existence at Varanasi on April 20, 1954 and was moved to Nainital in 1955, and later to its present location in 1961 at an altitude of 1,951 m at Manora peak south of Nainital.
 
 Ravindra Kumar, registrar of the institute, told TOI, "Our finance committee is scheduled to meet on September 18, while the governing council will meet a day later, and the matter will come up for discussion. We have filed our response to the Union finance ministry, and cannot comment on it further at the moment.”
 
