PUNE: Banks should be given more ‘teeth’ to go after big   and the RBI should make their names public to create sufficient deterrence, said a top official of the All India State Bank Officers’ Federation.

 “Whenever we go for any wage negotiations or seek benefits, they say banks do not have the paying capacity, the level of non-performing assets is too high and we need to make provisions. So, we have been demanding the publication of the list of defaulters,” Y Sudarshan, general secretary of the All India State Bank Officers’ Federation told TOI on Saturday.
 
 On January 3, Supreme Court (SC) had directed the RBI to publish a list of corporate loan defaulters who owe over Rs 500 crore to the banking system. The RBI is yet to act on the directive.
 
 Bad loans across banks have swelled in the past year. In case of some   (PSBs), such loans have breached 20% of total loans.
 
 About 1,500 officers from the State Bank of India, Maharashtra and Goa, gathered in Pune on Saturday to discuss the issues affecting them. The officers’ union will join the all-India bank strike called for February 28, to press for their demands, which include timely settlement of wage issues, reasonable compensation for work put in during the demonetisation exercise, opposition to privatisation of PSBs, a five-day work week for all bank employees.
 
 “As a union, we supported the move but there are issues related to demonetisation affecting our bankers. The banks have incurred cost of surplus funds, cost of business we have foregone, cost of handling cash, security, etc. We want the cost of demonetisation to be reimbursed to the bank as well as to employees and officers,” said Sudarshan.
 
 Wages in the public sector banks are renegotiated every five years and, at the current scale, bank officer’s salary is lower than central government employees. In the past, wage negotiations have dragged on for years after the deadline. “We want employees to be given their dues on time with dignity. If the seventh pay commission can be implemented faster, why do they take so long for us?” Sudarshan asked.
 
 He also said that the officers are opposed to privatisation of public sector banks in any form. “We are slowly moving towards privatisation but we oppose it strongly. PSBs have served a purpose. It is unfair to compare us with private sector banks,” he said.
 
