KOLKATA: A   was witness to the macabre sight of a   to death at the community playground early on Friday.

 Seventy-two-year-old Kalpana Bardhan quietly stepped out of her Bijoygarh home around 4am with a can of kerosene. She went to the park in the middle of the neighbourhood, emptied the kerosene can on herself and then lit herself up.
 
 Presumably, no one was awake at that hour. But, as the fire continued to burn, neighbours woke up one by one only to see the ghastly sight of a by-then-unrecognizable body being slowly eaten up by flames. They called the cops and by the time they came, around 7am, not much remained of Kalpana.
 
 One of those who failed to recognize her was one of her own daughters,  , who stays a few metres from her mother's house. She was one of the neighbours who came out - after being woken up by her husband - and stood agape along with the others as the body turned to ashes; only a portion of the open skull was visible through the smouldering remains.
 
 But she could not take the ghastly sight after a few minutes and rushed to her mother's place, where the elderly lady used to stay with her son and his wife.
 
 It was then that Bhaumik, Kalpana's son   and his wife realized that something was amiss. “I went to my mother's house to meet her but she was not inside. The door was ajar. I thought she had gone to queue up at the kerosene shop in the morning, which she would often do. But, just then, I spotted her friend returning from the kerosene shop and she told me that my mother had not been there today. I don't know what prompted me to rush to the park again. It was then that I spotted the small container in which my mother used to store kerosene. It was my mother who was burning in front of my eyes but I could not even recognize her,“ said Bhaumik.
 
 The charred remains kept smouldering near a newly installed swing for kids in the middle of the park till cops came around 7 am. None of the shocked neighbours could muster the courage to enter the park and try a rescue act and everyone stood on the periphery watching the leaping flames.Cops have registered a case of suicide.
 
 Kalpana's son and his wife stay on the third floor of the building where she occupied the ground floor. None of them heard anything and neither the couple nor any of Kalpana's three daughters could say what prompted their mother to take such a drastic step. She was suffering from age-related ailments like high blood pressure and cardiac issues but all of them agreed that could not be the reason for her to end her life.
 
 Kalpana's husband died 12 years ago. A daughter, who witnessed the incident, stays in the same neighbourhood. Her other two daughters stay in Liluah.
 
 Another mystery was why she did it at the park outside her residence and not at home.“May be she did not want the house to catch fire because several people stay here,“ daughterin-law Rupali Bardhan said.
 
 A peek into Kalpana's flat suggested she was immaculate and regular with her pujas. She cooked her meals in the adjoining kitchen. “It seems the woman set herself ablaze. We have not found any foul play yet but that aspect will also be probed,“ said a Jadavpur cop.
 
 Many expressed disbelief that nobody in the neighbourhood could hear Kalpana's cries when she was burning.
 
