DEHRADUN:   of 14 Rajput regiment, who uploaded a video that eventually went viral two days ago, spoke about the menial duties   in the Army are put to. The video put into focus an already raging debate about the necessity and role of sahayaks in the Army, especially since the Navy and Air Force have not adopted the   practice.

 With more educated jawans getting into the Army now, the initiative to replace sahayaks with civilian orderlies is gaining ground. In 2008, a parliamentary standing committee on defence had recommended abolishing the system terming it a “colonial hangover.”
 
 However, the practice has still continued. Defence analysts like Maroof Raza told TOI that the practice was “grossly misused and should be stopped.” “The sahayak was meant to assist officers but he is now being misused by many officers including junior commissioned officers (JCOs). Nowadays, jawans who are joining the Army are from similar social strata as the officers which leads to friction between them. 
 
 In fact, in training stations like Mhow and Ahmednagar, civilian staff is in place do the chores which are done by the jawans for the officers,” he said.Senior Army personnel however claim that the sahayak is “like a buddy to an officer” and it is not possible to function in field areas without his help.
 
 “Most of the officers treat their sahayaks with dignity and do not make them do any demeaning tasks. However, in case an officer is misusing the sahayak, which does happen at times, then action should be taken,” said a former Army commander who did not wish to be named.
 
 On Friday, Army chief General Bipin Rawat had in a media interaction said that talks are on with the government to consider limiting the sahayak only to officers who are posted in combat areas.
 
 Many defence personnel concur that it would be a good idea to implement. Brig Gurmeet Kanwal (retd) of the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA), New Delhi, said, “An officer cannot function without his buddy in field areas since he is involved in planning operations.
 
 Therefore, the presence of a sahayak is of utmost importance in these areas.” Havaldar (retd) Bageecha Singh concurred that “there is no issue in helping the officers professionally” but added that “a jawan does not join the Army to do household work.”
 
