MANGALURU: Success begets success. If Tulu film Madipu walked away with the National Award for Best Regional film last week and followed it up bagging the state award in the same category that CM Siddaramaiah announced on Tuesday, actor Naveen D Padil quietly slipped under the shadows to pick up the best supporting actor award for his role in Kudla Cafe. The fact that a regional film actor has bagged this coveted state award had Naveen over the moon.

 Confessing that the media breaking news of the award to him felt surreal, Naveen, tired from an overnight shoot told TOI that the incessant ringing of the phone and the news had him pinching himself to make sure he wasn’t dreaming. “The news is yet to sink in,” Naveen said, adding it is a big honour for  , as Tulu film industry is referred to, that one among them has broken the glass ceiling and has been considered for a state award.
 
 Giving credit to everyone at  , the banner that offered Kudla Café to the viewers, Naveen said, “I owe it to my director/producer   and director Surya Menon for pitching this film with the film awards certification committee.” The award has also sent out a clear signal to my brethren in Coastalwood that recognition will follow talent and that one does not need to go behind powers that be or strive for influence to get one, he said.
 
 A three-decade veteran of Tulu stage, Naveen who is just a decade old in the Tulu film industry said, “I have always worked hard without hankering for an award. Recognition has come my way in a way justifying my dedication to the profession.” The award has also fortified self-belief that hard work does pay, Naveen said, while also dedicating the award to all cine goers who have appreciated his onscreen work and thus giving his diminutive frame, a larger than life persona.
 
 Analysing the state award further, Naveen said it is also a recognition of the fact that the jury now considers actors of regional film on par with their brethren in Sandalwood. “This is a big development and will only spur actors irrespective of the language they perform in to give it their very best.” Naveen, now a regular in Maja Talkies reality show in Kannada TV news channel said even production houses in Bengaluru are recognizing regional film actors.
 
 BOX
 
 Kudla Café, produced by Ranjan Shetty and Surya Menon, is a 2016 Tulu language film. Star cast includes Jyothish Shetty, Naveen D Padil, Raghu Pandeshwar, Aahana Kumra, Shaine Shetty, Santhosh Shetty, Sudhir Raaj Urva, Ashok Shetty, Kishore Kottari, Bantwal Jayaramachaar, Thimmappa Kulal, Bhavani Shankar, Shashiraaj Kavoor, Manoj Puttur, Shruthi Shetty, Anusha Kotian, Sanam Amin, Karthik Kotian, Suraj Sanil and Naveen Shetty Mijar in lead roles.
 
 Kudla Cafe premiered at the Eighth Bengaluru International Film Festival held in February 2016 and was released in   on February 12 last.
 
 STORY LINE
 
 Three friends in their 40s reunite in Mangaluru after 20-years at funeral of their Kabbadi coach who also used to own their favorite cafe, only to discover that the canteen is mortgaged to a loan shark who plans to demolish it and use the land for commercial purposes. The friends decide to stay back and help out the man's grandson, who now runs the canteen, in saving it. The trials the gang faces in raising the money and the personal lives of the three friends forms the rest of the story.
 
