Coimbatore: Soon, there will be a bank branch that will not accept cash. Private lender Karur Vysya Bank (KVB) is planning to open branches that would only ‘on-board’ new customers, a top official said. These branches, which are expected to come up by September , would not accept cash deposits or withdrawals and would not engage in other regular banking transactions, said K Venkataraman, managing director and CEO, KVB.

 A typical branch , would have an area of 600-800 sq. ft.and just 3-4 bank employees, he said. The bank has at least 6-7 employees per branch, which is spread over 1100-1200 sq. ft. “The model is there. We are thinking of a different operating structure for these branches,” Venkataraman, who was here to launch the bank’s technology services, said.
 
 KVB launched UPI (unified payments interface), BBPS (Bharat Bill Payment System) and ‘FASTag’, a pre-loaded tag that allows vehicles to move on without having to join queues or pay cash at toll plazas on national highways here on Wednesday.
 
 The ‘cashless’ branches would provide business leads for other branches, KVB officials said. The move comes at a time when the bank is seeing a quantum jump in the opening of new accounts. About 1 lakh accounts are being opened in a month at KVB now, as against an earlier average of 60,000Venkataraman said. 
 
 KVB is also planning to open 2-3 ‘recovery branches’ that would deal exclusively with the recovery of NPAs (non-performing assets), Venkataraman said. Gross NPAs of the bank worsened to 2.66% in the third quarter of 2016-17 compared to 1.91% in the year-ago quarter. Net NPAs rose to 1.68% from 0.96%.
 
 The bank has decided not to take part in large consortiums for lending. About 12% of all loans given by KVB are through consortium-based lending. The bank is now participating in consortiums of 4-5 banks where its exposure in group advances is 30%-40%.
 
 Infrastructure portfolio accounts for about 9% of the total NPAs of the bank, Venkataraman said. Recovery of loans has become difficult as the sale of collateral has been hit by bad market conditions, he stated.
 
 Ends
 
 
