Mumbai/Bengaluru: Ethnic wear brand   has held talks with   (PE) funds, including  ,   Capital and  , for a majority stake sale valuing the company at around $200 million, people privy to the matter told TOI. Soch’s share sale comes at a time when investors have been scouting for companies in the fast-growing domestic womenswear market buoyed by rising disposable income among urban women, who are joining the workforce. 

 Once completed, the transaction, which is likely to give a controlling stake to the investor, would emerge as a rare one in the domestic apparel sector where most PE funds have picked up smaller stakes. L Catterton is the combined entity after LVMH-backed L Capital merged with Greenwich-based Catterton last year. In its earlier avatar, L Capital had bet on domestic fashion and apparel players like FabIndia and Genesis Luxury Fashion, which retails brands like Jimmy Choo and Satya Paul, among others.
 
 When contacted,  , CEO of Soch, declined to comment while Sanjay Gujral, regional MD at L Catterton Asia, said, “We do not comment on speculation.” Sandeep Singhal, MD at Westbridge Capital, declined to comment and Jayanta Basu of CX Partners did not respond to our query.
 
 Mumbai-based investment bank O3 Capital is advising Soch on the fund raise.
 
 MD Retail, the parent of brand Soch, started off as a family business running a multi-brand retail chain Favourite Shop at Bengaluru’s Commercial Street. In 2007, the Chatlani family launched its own line under Soch from a local mall, and is now spread across with more than 80 brand stores in the country. 
 
 Last year, another women’s fashion brand W successfully raised $140 million from private equity major TA Associates clocking great returns for early investor Matrix Partners, while others like Ritu Kumar roped in Everstone Capital and BIBA got funds from Warburg Pincus over the past few years.
 
 Chatlani told TOI that, besides running its own brand stores, Soch has now started retailing through shop-in-shops across Shoppers Stop and Central. “Next year, we are looking at opening 35-40 stores and that’s not including any shop-in-shops. We have been growing annually at 46% for the last five years,” he said.Chatlani said Soch would register revenues of Rs 350 crore for 2016-17. The brand is also growing its online presence as it’s now being sold on commerce portals, including Myntra, Jabong and Amazon, he added.
 
 “Spends on womenswear in the apparel market is catching up with the share of menswear. This is driven largely by the Indian ethnic and fusion wear brands which appeal to young audiences. Fast fashion turnaround based on innovative technology and materials at relatively affordable price has been the key to this growth,” said Debashish Mukherjee, a partner at consulting firm AT Kearney
 
 
