SILIGURI: No quarter was asked and none given. Not surprisingly , there was no winner, too. That, in a nutshell, turned out to be the leitmotif in the season's first   as   and   played out a goalless draw in the ILeague at the Kanchenjungha Stadium here on Sunday .

 In a match that sparked into life only occasionally , the two traditional rivals looked content with going through the motions. Neither team really pushed for a win. Mohun Bagan's playmaker Sony Norde, who was eventually substituted by   in the 86th minute -did look lively in the first half but faded out in the second. He did create a couple of chances, but his overall impact on the high-voltage game was fell well short of the expectations of Bagan faithfuls. It is not insignificant that in the four matches he has played against East Bengal so far, the Haitian has failed to score.
 
 Bagan's other hotshot striker, Jeje Lalpekhlua, too, had a quiet evening, failing to redeem himself after missing a penalty in last season's ILeague derby at the same venue. Sony's former Haitian teammate, Wedson Anselme did give East Bengal the edge in the midfield battle, but it was never enough to break the deadlock. Former Trinidad and Tobago striker Willis Plaza had the best chance of the match when he failed to beat Mohun Bagan goalkeeper DebjitMajumder in a one-onone situation. And Robin Singh never looked like adding to his derby tally that remained stuck at five.
 
 This much hyped Kolkata derby that had India coach Stephen Constantine and former national captain Baichung Bhutia in attendance -cried out for someone emerge from the ranks and become a hero by making things happen. Unfortunately , there was not enough quality on the pitch to compel attention.
 
 The stalemate ended East Bengal's six-match winning run. Trevor Morgan's side, however, retained the top spot with 20 points from eight matches and maintained a three-point lead over Mohun Bagan (17 from seven).
 
 With both teams determined to play it safe, the match got off to a sedate start. Chances at either end were few and far between as the game meandered along. If brownie points were up for grabs, Mohun Bagan would have certainly accumulated a few more than East Bengal in the oneping 45 minutes.
 
 In the 15th minute, Sony delivered an exquisite cross from a tight angle for Pritam Kotal but East Bengal custodian ReheneshTP was equal to the task to deny Mohun Bagan right-back.
 
 The second opportunity , in the 33rd minute, was more menacing. Sony's cornerkick, third for Mohun Bagan, appeared to be dipping into the East Bengal net until an alert Rehenesh reacted instinctively and averted the danger by tipping it over the bar in the nick of time. The East Bengal goalkeeper, who was later adjudged the Man of the Match, described it as his best save in the game.
 
 
