GREATER NOIDA: Unable to overcome his inferiority complex over being less educated than his cousin, and being embroiled in a property dispute for the last two years, a 25-year-old man conspired with two friends and allegedly murdered his cousin, an  , on January 5. 

 Deepak Bhati (25), who studied only up to Class XII, was arrested from his home in Sirsa Rampur village in Dankaur on Friday, more than 20 days after the murder.
 
 Sanjeev Kumar (24), Deepak’s accomplice, was also arrested on Friday, while the third accused, Neeraj Kasana (26), is at large.
 
 The victim, MBA graduate Amit Bhati (24), Deepak’s cousin, and Deepak lived in the same village, where they had an ongoing property dispute over more than 1.5 acres of land, the police said.
 
 Sujata Singh, SP (rural), Gautam Budh Nagar, said Amit had left home in his car on January 5 but did not return. Some security guards later found him near IIMT College in   with critical bullet injuries on his head. They informed the police and took Amit to Kailash Hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.
 
 Amit Bhati’s father, Satyendra Bhati, registered a case of murder against unknown persons at the Knowledge Park police station. The police put Amit’s mobile phone on surveillance, but it was switched off.
 
 The police also investigated his call records and found a suspicious number, which was later found to be Deepak’s. Further investigation revealed that Deepak had had an altercation with Amit some days before the murder.
 
 The police arrested Deepak at his house on Friday and, during interrogation, he admitted to having committed the murder. Deepak said he had studied till Class XII but Amit had completed his MBA in 2014. “I always had an inferiority complex with regard to Amit. We also had a dispute about over 1.5 acres of land. Amit’s family had agreed to pay me some money and settle the matter, but he had objected to that,” Deepak told the police.
 
 Deepak then hatched a plot with two friends, Sanjeev and Neeraj, to eliminate Amit. “The three called Amit over to Jagat Farm and bought some liquor with them. They then went to Knowledge Park and ensured that Amit got drunk. Sanjeev then whipped out a pistol and fired at Amit at point-blank range,” the police said. Neeraj had brought the gun.
 
 Amit was critically injured and started bleeding profusely. The accused left him in his car and made off with his wallet, mobile phone and a gold chain. They switched off his mobile phone and dumped it in a remote area.
 
 Sanjeev was arrested near a bus stand in Kasna on Friday. A manhunt has been launched for Neeraj, the police said.
 
