NAGPUR: The Nagpur Bench of   on Wednesday asked petitioner to furnish photographic evidence about pits dug by Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL) on roads and footpaths. 

 The court asked petitioner’s counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar to complete the formalities within a week. The NMC was told to reply on petitioner’s evidence in one week while the hearing was fixed after three weeks.
 
 The court was hearing a PIL demanding action against RJIL officials under Section 304A of IPC following a death of a two-year-old girl  , after she fell into one of the unguarded pits dug by the company near Nagpur University library, on March 6, 2015. The pit was dug for while laying cables for its 4G network in the city.
 
 The petitioner attached various TOI reports exposing how trenches dug by RJIL for laying down its optical fibre network led to many citizens suffering injuries as those were not covered or guarded by barricades properly. He cited many incidents where the citizens suffered injuries after falling in pits dug by the RJIL and others for their various works in the city.
 
 Plea in HC over 95 vacant posts in SSH
 
 Two interventions filed in Nagpur bench of Bombay   on Wednesday disclosed that about 95 posts are vacant in Super Specialty Hospital (SSH) while four of six departments were not functioning since 1991. 
 
 The interventions were filed by   and Kavita Singhal praying for directives to the government to fill up those seats and restart vascular, neurosurgery, nephrology and neurology departments in SSH.
 
 While allowing interveners’ applications, the court asked amicus curiae   to separate irrelevant issues in the PIL and file pursis on the relevant ones within a week. The directives came while hearing of a PIL by CH Sharma and others, regarding lack of facilities in Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals (GMCHs) across Vidarbha.
 
 During last hearing, the court expressed desire to dispose the PIL, but Gilda informed that many issues in the PIL were still pending and without HC’s monitoring those would be kept lingering. 
 
 He also pointed out that the inflow of funds may from the government would be stopped if case is disposed of. He informed that the PIL was having seven major subjects, including formation of Akola and Gondia GMCs, vacant positions in super Specialty Hospital (SSH), MBBS seats in IGGMC among others.
 
