MUMBAI: The Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) has raised strong objections to the proposed captive jetty at Ambolgadh in   district. The Environment Impact Assessment Report (EIA), it said, has plagiarised its work on marine diversity and termed the report completely shoddy. The jetty is being set up around 5 kms from the Jaitapur Nuclear Power Project (JNPP) to cater to a bauxite benefication plant, steel plant, coal based thermal power plant, molasses from sugar refineries, containers hub and tank farms. At a press conference at the   on Tuesday the   released the   letter. It pointed out that not just the BNHS report but several other reports have been plagiarised to prepare the EIA.

 A public hearing based on the “plagiarised” EIA report is to be held on March 23. Activists who are also local residents have demanded that it be cancelled. In a letter to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), the BNHS said the EIA for the 4.5 MTPA (metric tonne per annum) captive jetty near Nate village has copied word to work its work carried out under project on coastal and marine bio-diversity of Konkan without any citation.
 
 “It is not just a clear case of plagiarism but also validate the fact that consultants have not done field work to support their claims made in bio-diversity section of the EIA. If the consultant found our work worthy reporting in the EIA then it endorses our findings that Ambolgadh coastal areas and adjoining plateaus qualify as ecologically sensitive site,” reads the letter.
 
 BNHS in 2012 had submitted a detailed conservation plan for the area. It said the proposed captive jetty is against the very principle of JNPP clearance. Ambolgadh lies adjacent to the proposed jetty. Kasheli another important area will fall within 5-6 km perimeter of the proposed jetty. Sandy shores of Vyete and adjoining areas are also sea turtle nesting areas. The near shore waters of Ambolgadh, Kasheli and Vijaydurg region are used by globally endangered marine mammals like Blue Whale, Sperm Whale, Humpback Whale, Bride’s Whale, Indo-Pacific Dolphins and Finless Porpoises. The coastal plateaus of Ambolgadh have several endemic and critically endangered plants and is also a habitat-specialist and animals including endemic White-tailed Gecko. There is no mention of these aspects in the EIA, said the BNHS. BNHS has warned that with the 10000 MW nuclear power plant on one side and the captive jetty on another, the bio-diversity of the Ambolgadh region will be completely destroyed.
 
