AHMEDABAD: The   reported a   on Sunday evening. There were   or injuries. 

 A team of Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) doused the flames after a two-hour operation. Preliminary investigation revealed that the fire started from the server room and spread to other parts of the building. As it was a Sunday, the office was closed and hence risk to people was minimal, said AFES officials.
 
  The officials received the fire alert call at around 5 pm from the second floor of Fortune House near   railway crossing. “Two floors — the first and the second — occupied by the company started emitting smoke, following which the fire was detected,” said an AFES official. “Soon after this, people and police personnel broke a part of the glass facade to release the smoke. Visibility was poor and thus we had to break the facade to provide a vent for the smoke.”
 
 When firefighters reached inside, the building had become very hot and oxygen masks had to be used. The team of around 30 firemen led by two officers, including chief fire officer M F Dastoor, started the operation with snorkel and a hydraulic platform, four firefighters and four water tankers.
 
 Dastoor said, prima facie, the cause of fire is short-circuit. “The fire started in the server room and spread to adjoining battery back-up and electricity room which were completely destroyed,” he said. “The office has a false ceiling above which air-conditioning ducts are placed. The smoke filled that space and spread though the entire premises.” He added that super blowers and water sprayers were used to fight smoke. 
 
 The officials said that as the office was closed, there was a delay in reporting the incident which allowed the fire to spread. “The company officials reached the spot to assess the situation,” said an official. Navrangpura police station inspector R V Desai said that the road from Mithakhali Crossroads to Navrangpura railway crossing was closed for two hours.
 
 This was the second major fire in two days. On Sunday, a firecracker factory at Vanch village near Ramol was gutted and a woman was killed. The AFES had doused the flames after four-hour operation.
 
 
 
 
 Staff of a major supermarket located on the ground floor first detected the smoke and decided to close the supermarket. The AFES team that arrived on the spot asked the staff to check the premises thoroughly so that not a single person was left behind once the full-fledged operation was launched. 
 
 
 
 
 AFES officials said that as more and more buildings adopt steel-and-glass architecture, glass becomes the first target in case of fire. “Lack of any ventilation forces us to break the glass so that smoke can find the exit route,” said an official. “It’s important for us to navigate inside the premises.”
 
 
 
 
 AFES officials said that a youth, identified as Rajesh Vaghela, working with the company, had fled to the top of the building after the fire started. The AFES team used a snorkel to get him down. Three firemen sustained minor injuries in the operation. 
 
 
