JAIPUR: The injuries of the 7-year-old rape survivor are so severe that doctors had to perform a critical  . The girl is now undergoing treatment at surgical ICU for post operation care of   Lon Hosptial.

 Doctors say that the surgery they conducted on Sunday, required time for healing. The girl had colostomy to give rest to her injured parts. In colostomy, the doctors bring out one end of the large intestine through the abdominal wall by conducting operation. The doctors have not started giving her food orally. From Tuesday morning, they may give some liquid diet depending on her condition.
 
 The girl will undergo another surgery. The doctors will perform the surgery to close the colostomy once her wound heals completely. In the surgery, they will put back the end of large intestine inside the abdominal wall once injures are completely healed.
 
 A day after the surgery, the girl was not allowed to move as she needs time to recover. However,   administration said her stay in the hospital is expected to prolong.
 
 “She will have to undergo another surgery later. But, for now, she is in post-operative care,” said Dr  , superintendent of JK Lon Hospital.
 
 The girl was brutally raped and she has suffered severe injuries in her private parts. The JK Lon Hospital’s surgeon conducted a surgery on Sunday morning which lasted two and a half hours.
 
 She is not the only girl brought to the hospital for such injuries suffered in a heinous crime in the past 10 days. Another 7-year-old girl from   was brought to the hospital on March 17. Besides, one more six-year-old girl from Sanganer also underwent treatment as she was admitted to the hospital on March 21. Both girls have already been discharged from the hospital as they did not require any colostomy. But, the 7-year-old girl found at   in unconscious state on Saturday morning, has to stay long because of the severe injuries.
 
 The doctors said that the girl lost a lot of blood. They transfused blood twice to compensate for the loss.
 
