BHUBANESWAR: Four factors that clinched the deal in building  's new capital city in Bhubaneswar were the sprawling landscape, idyllic environ, availability of quality drinking water and its long association with history and culture.

 As the city celebrates its 69th birthday on Thursday, whether or not it takes pride in its core values on which it was conceptualised is anybody's guess. Even as certain modern infrastructure facilities are cited as proof of the city's growth, the feeling that Bhubaneswar has slipped its moorings and drifted out to be one of the many is hard to hide. 
 
 A few days after taking over, former governor   was struck to see the majesty of Bhubaneswar when he toured the proposed capital site in 1947. He said with little attention Bhubaneswar, with all its globally known temples, caves and inscriptions could become the world's most sought-after tourist centre and a health resort. He said the road passing through Khandagiri jungles 'was the most charming that I have come across in any part of the world'. "If we do not convert it into a place worth living in and worth the visitors visit the fault shall be entirely ours," Katju had remarked.
 
 Curiously, the British authorities in London, before and after granting separate province status to Odisha, could barely take Bhubaneswar seriously as an option for the capital. Numerous committees were set up for the purpose. They too skipped the temple city. Post-statehood the worse happened as demand for locating the capital surfaced from different parts of the state, each claiming itself better than others.
 
 The site war continued for about 10 years.   was in the forefront. The authorities had virtually taken the millennium city for granted for its centuries of status as the political, economic and cultural nerve centre of Odisha. But futurists saw little reason in Cuttack's argument. What eventually weighed against Cuttack was lack of a contiguous 200-acre land to house government buildings, perennial flood threats because of its location between Mahanadi and Kathajodi rivers and the intense heat from March to May.
 
 Bhubaneswar, with an array of temples in the Old Town area and about 28 villages ensconced in nearby forests, had none to lobby for it. It was B K Gokhale, adviser to the government, who changed the narrative when he met visionary Harekrushna Mahtab, then in Pune jail for participating in the Mumbai AICC session that passed the Quit India resolution, and explained to him the hidden potential of Bhubaneswar as the most suitable site for the state's capital. The ice broke after   formed the government in 1946.
 
 Bhubaneswar has come a long way in adding a host of facilities like international airport, scores of engineering colleges, IIT, institutions to impart vocational studies, universities, hospitals, AIIMS, shopping malls and parks. No wonder, the city tops the country's smart city list, making way for investments to better the living.
 
 What, however, worries the citizens is steady disappearance of forest, streams, water bodies and trees in the name of development. Bhubaneswar is perhaps the only state capital in the country with the bounteous Chandaka forest on the outskirts. It is now a name sake elephant sanctuary with the city reaching its boundary, forcing the animals to abandon the area for greener pastures. While water bodies are occupied by land grabbers, water logging, unheard of in the past, has become routine. The scorching summer, a factor that eased out Cuttack from the race of capital city, is too hot to bear. As multi-storeyed buildings keep appearing in hoards, there is little swachh about the temples, Bhubaneswar's USP, to lure tourists. 
 
 What was planned for about 40,000 people is now home to more than 10 lakh people. It seems Bhubaneswar has lost its moorings. German architect Otto Koenigsberger's neighbourhood concept and  's vision of happy community life seemes to be long forgotten.
 
