Panaji: Over 200 students from special schools across Goa came together on Wednesday morning for an enthusiastic onstage performance, and showcased their dramatic and acting abilities. Organized by the Goa special school association (GSSA), the fourth all Goa drama competition for children with special needs, in collaboration with the directorate of art and culture, and Kala Academy saw talented children perform as their parents watched with awe. “I am acting in this play with my friends. My mummy is also here and is watching me from the audience. I feel happy doing this,” said Vibha Ajit Kanekar, a special student from Keshav Seva Sadhana as she was gearing up to play the role of a yoga teacher. The first day featured, intellectually-challenged students from 13 schools, and on Thursday, children with hearing impairment from three other schools will be performing. What could be a walk-in-the-park for regular children, meant a repetitive process for teachers of children with special needs. “Everything has to be broken into small tasks that need to be accomplished. We constantly modified each task according to the child’s comfort level. All these small tasks put together then form one whole play. Preparation takes anywhere from three to four months,” said Rupesh Gadekar, physical educator at School for Appropriate Learning (SFAL). “To memorize dialogues and deliver them seamlessly onstage, is a challenge. After trial-and-error, the children have managed to overcome their hurdles and perform. This not only helped them perform onstage but also helps build confidence to interact outside their comfort zone,” said, special educator at Sanjay School, Vasco, Pankaj Tari. Besides these challenges, there was the bouts of ailments that the children had to deal with due to the monsoon. Their teachers, however seem to have overcome all these niggling issues and put up a grand show. Parents were seen cheering their wards. “Abhishekh has limitations due to which I can’t see him at par with other children. But seeing him perform onstage makes me realize that he has come a long way since he first started his journey,” said Kalpana Naik, speaking of her son, a student of Lok Vishwas, Ponda. “With events like these, teachers are able to tap into the talent of special children. Group interaction is an area that they can benefit from. They also get a sense of joy from the participation which helps in the all-round development of the special child,” said Luella D’souza of her child, Hazel, a student of Disha Charities Trust. “The smooth execution owes its credit to the special kids. Citizens should attend such events to encourage them.” GSSA director, Sandhya Kaloke said.