MANGALURU: Export credit grew by a handsome 32% in the  , helped by smart recovery in the  , also leading to an upturn in shipping, an   has said.
 
 Analysing the  , the paper noted that in the current financial year, up to January 20, some of the selective sectors remained in good shape despite an overall dismal credit growth of just about 3.3% in 2016-17.
 
 Going by the sector-wise deployment of gross bank credit, exports, agriculture and allied activities, shipping, professional services, consumer durables and vehicles were among the top in seeking funds from the lenders.
 
 While the year–on-year export credit grew by 32% as on January 20, 2017 (the latest RBI data), shipping saw higher deployment of funds by 15.7%, consumer durables by 17.1%, and vehicles loans by 18. 2%.
 
 “There are pockets of growth which are keeping the economy on track. They include agriculture and allied activities (other than food credit) which saw a higher bank credit demand by over 8%. The improvement in shipping shows an upward movement in global trade, which is reflected in the smart recovery in the Indian merchandise exports in the current fiscal,” said ASSOCHAM secretary general D S Rawat. 
 
 Even as exports grew by a cumulative 2.52% between April-February this fiscal, the expansion has been quite sharp in the later part of the year and in certain specific sector like engineering. For the 11-month period, India’s merchandise exports aggregated $245.41 billion against $239.37 billion in the same period last fiscal.
 
 The exports fall under the ‘Priority sector’ lending norms of the banks, adds ASSOCHAM. “Surely, things are further improving for the export sector and so is the demand for money,” the paper pointed out. Services as a key contributor to the   also did well in terms of deployment of credit which saw over 8% year on year rise for the period under review.
 
 However, the manufacturing still remains a laggard, witnessing a de-growth of about 7% in bank credit deployment. So is the case with other sectors like non-banking finance companies and micro credit. Most of the Non-Performing Assets are locked up in manufacturing in sectors such as steel, besides some infrastructure segments. 
 
