Arun.Dev

 Bengaluru: This IPL season when most cricket-loving Bengalureans will either be glued to their TV screens or crowd the Chinnaswamy Stadium, cops will be out to get a piece of the action. They will be showing messages and, probably, videos of their latest digital campaigns on women’s safety and traffic awareness at the stadium.
 
 From the large screen showing the match to the LED screens by the boundaries, the stadium is full of opportunities, say cops. Although so far cops haven’t got any slots during the match, they hope to get their message across before or after the games.
 
 Praveen Sood, police commissioner, said the proposal was made during several meetings between cops and organizers regarding security arrangements, to which they obliged. “Apart from the LED screens at the stadium, there are several screens outside too; we thought our campaign could have a bigger reach,” he said.
 
 Bengaluru police have been running campaigns on women’s safety, traffic awareness and citizen empowerment on the social media platform. Recently, a series of videos on drink-and-drive and towing of vehicles was released. Instead of making generic statements, the videos will address the issues directly, said police.
 
 The first set of ads will be rolled out during the match between Delhi Daredevils and Royal Challengers Bengaluru on Saturday. This will continue for the rest of season too. 
 
 Meanwhile, final security arrangements for the upcoming matches were put in place on Friday. According to police, most of the arrangements are the same as last edition. However, based on a recent recommendation from the internal security division, the perimeter wall of the stadium has been barb-wired.
 
 More buses and trains
 
 BMTC will operate extra buses for the convenience of cricket fans travelling to and from Chinnaswamy Stadium on Saturday. Extra buses will run from the stadium post match (midnight) based on requirement. Route details: Shivajinagar to Kadugodi us stop, Mayo Hall to Sarjapur, Brigade Road to Electronics City, Chinnaswamy Stadium to Kengeri & KHB Quarters, BRV Parade Grounds to Janapriya Township, MG Road Metro station to Nelamangala, MG Road Metro station to Yelhanka 5th Phase, BRV Parade Grounds to R K Hegde Nagara, MG Road Metro station to Bagalur and Mayo Hall to Hoskote.
 
 The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRC) has announced that on match days Metro services will be extended beyond normal hours. Services between Mysuru Road and Byappanahalli stations will be extended from the usual 10pm to 12:30am, and trains will be available every 20 minutes.
 
 
