PUNE: Parents of students eligible for the 25% quota in private schools under the   and Compulsory Education ( ) Act can expect a delayed admission process this year too.

 The RTE Act, 2009, mandates reservation of 25% seats for students from economically weaker sections. 
 
 The deadline for registration of schools eligible for these   has been extended by a couple of days as the school managements failed to register online by the last date of February 3.
 
 For the past two years, the regional directorate of education, which conducts RTE admissions in Pune region, has failed to meet the admission deadlines. Consequently, the school allotment rounds were conducted till August, two months after the start of the academic year.
 
 Director of primary education Govind Nandede said, “Many had not registered by the deadline. Hence, we decided to extend the deadline by a few more days because we do not want to leave out any of the eligible schools as students would have to suffer.”
 
 Until all schools register, the admission process cannot move forward. 
 
 Nandede said, “We will ensure the schedule does not get disturbed. This year, there are five rounds of admissions. So we will ensure no student is left behind the schedule of admissions, which will go on till April.”
 
 Regional director of education Dinkar Temkar said, “Once schools register, we will check the information provided by the management on location and number of seats.”
 
 As per schedule, parents were asked to fill up admission forms from February 6. 
 
 However, the new date for this will now be notified by the education department later this week, said Nandede.
 
 Last year, more than 8,900 reserved seats remained vacant in city schools, even after three rounds of online admissions. 
 
 Around 16,894 seats were available in Pune district. Of these, 10,988 seats were available for standard I admissions, while 5,906 seats were for the pre-primary section. Last year, 17,128 applications were received and 781 schools had registered.
 
