NEW DELHI: Calcutta high court’s Justice C S   did not appear before a seven-judge constitution bench headed by Chief Justice   on Monday in defiance of the summons issued by the   which has initiated suo motu contempt of court proceedings against him.

 This cold shouldering of the highest court’s summons by a sitting HC judge made attorney general   request the bench comprising Justices Khehar, Dipak Misra, JChelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi, Madan B Lokur, P C Ghose and   to frame contempt of court charges in absentia against Justice Karnan.
 
 The bench was disinclined to frame charges without hearing Justice Karnan, more importantly to secure his presence before it. For any ordinary citizen, the court might have directed the police to arrest and produce him before the court. But the contemnor being a sitting HC judge, the SC decided to give him another chance to abide by the apex court’s order and present himself before it on March 10.
 
 “Justice Karnan is directed to be present in court in person on the next date of hearing (March 10),” the bench ordered and hinted that it would not back out from taking coercive methods to secure his presence if he failed to appear on the next date of hearing.
 
 Two days after a contempt notice was issued to him, Justice Karnan had on February 10 written a four-page letter to the SC reiterating his charges against judges in Madras high court, seeking transfer of the contempt case to   and complaining that the apex court did not give him enough time to respond. 
 
 He also alleged that upper caste bias among the seven-judge bench to punish a Dalit like him was evident from the order which could itself be an offence under SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.
 
 Appearing for Madras HC, senior advocate K K Venugopal said the reputation of sitting and retired judges, who were attacked by Justice Karnan with wild aspersions on their integrity and character, needed protection. 
 
 He said Justice Karnan had accused a sitting judge of sexual assault and worse, he called up the home of the sitting judge and verbally abused his family members.
 
 The CJI-headed bench said, “Justice Karanan is being proceeded against in the suo motu contempt case. We had given him notice and he has been served. He has not appeared before us. For the time being, we think we should give him one more chance because the consequences are grave. When he appears on the next date, we will ask him certain questions and seek answers. We will give him time to appear and show cause why contempt proceedings be not initiated (for his conduct). If he does not appear, then we may consider issuing bailable (arrest) warrants.”
 
 A body of lawyers led by Mathew Nedumpara tried to intervene in the contempt proceedings and requested the CJI-led bench to be sympathetic towards a “stressed, disturbed and financially constrained” Justice Karnan. 
 
 He was joined by advocate Lily Thomas.But the bench sternly put down their requests and said none of them had been authorised by Justice Karnan to argue on his behalf. It said no advocate could intervene in the contempt proceedings unless duly authorised either by the contemnor or the court.
 
 “Since contempt proceedings are a matter strictly between the court and the alleged contemnor, anyone who enters appearance and disrupts the proceedings of this case in future should understand that he/she can be proceeded against in consonance with law. All that we need to say is that no one should appear in the matter without due consent and authorisation,” the bench warned.
 
