Nagpur: A big increase in number of vendors selling peacock feathers on city streets has alarmed the environmentalists. They think forest department should wake up and verify whether the feathers have been procured legally.

 Though peacocks are listed under Schedule I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972, the Act provides certain exemptions under Sections 43, 44 (4) and 49 (a) for transport, transfer and trade in the peacock tail feathers within the country. The forest departments have to verify whether these feathers have been procured legally.
 
 The exemptions do not authorize any person/trader to either not reveal the origin of the stock being traded or keep stock of illegally obtained feathers. The forest department are supposed to check stocks and records for source of feathers.
 
 Peacock tail feathers are commonly used for various religious, cultural and traditional purposes and are also traded freely. In the last month or so owing to onset of festival season, many vendors, mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, are seen selling them.
 
 Following reports of large-scale poaching of peacocks, the ministry of environment, forests and climate (MoEFCC) issued directives on May 7, 2014, to all states and union territories to grant highest degree of protection to these birds. Following these directives, Maharashtra’s chief wildlife warden in September 2014 had asked all the chief conservator of forests (CCFs) to verify whether the feathers for sale have been procured legally.
 
 A study in 2016 undertaken by TRAFFIC India stated peacock feather ash (bhasma & churan) is were sold in many drug stores in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat and Rajasthan, in the belief that it cures hiccups, vomiting and morning sickness.
 
 Naturally shed feathers are simply not enough to meet the demand and peacocks are being poached for the same. A single peacock normally sheds or moults 150-200 feathers annually, says TRAFFIC report.
 
 It is unlikely that people catch wild peacocks, pull out their feathers and let them go. Moreover, whether shed or plucked from dead peacocks is any one’s guess. In Maharashtra also there have been reports of peacock poaching with the help of pesticides.
 
 Since 2014, there has not been a single action or case registered against any peacock feather sellers nor there is any verification of their stock. A couple of feather sellers recently told this correspondent they were from UP and Agra was a big trading and supply centre of feathers. They fled when asked for bills.
 
 The dealer or seller has to show feathers have been procured legally or they can be booked under the WPA. Even keeping naturally shed peacock feathers requires permission under the Biodiversity Act.
 
 
