AHMEDABAD: With heavy rains being reported from most parts of Gujarat, at least five persons have died in the Saurashtra region. 

 According to disaster officials, one death each was report from  , Rajkot, Aravali, Gandhinagar and Banaskantha.
 
 At least 1500 people were rescued and shifted to safer location in Morbi district. In the last half hour, as the story was being filed, there were reports of three children being struck in Bhugavo river near Surendranagar town. A husband and a wife were swept away in the fresh floods in Surendranagar.
 
 During the last 24 hours (till 8 am),   town received 18-inch rainfall, the highest in the state, followed by Kapadwanj and Porbandar towns and neighboring areas received almost six inches of rainfall.
 
 Chief minister Vijay Rupani has called an emergency meeting to ensure that emergency services are on the alert as rains don’t show any immediate signs of ebbing. All 16 gates of Machchu dam in Morbi of Rajkot district were opened as water levels kept rising. In Wadhwan four people who had gone for sand mining purposes were stuck in Bhugavo river. 
 
 NDRF teams from Gandhinagar were sent for rescue operations. Owing to heavy rains an accident also occurred between an ST bus and a car near   village in Kanwat taluka in Chhotaudepur. All three passengers in the car died on the spot.
 
 The rains which began since Friday continued across the state. On Friday Saurashtra region received a heavy down pour. From 8 am to 12 noon on Friday Rajkot city received 176 mm followed Chotila in Surendrnagar 136 mm, Jodia (Jamnagar) 128 mm,   (surendranagar) 121, Lodhika (Rajkot) 106 mm, Kalavad (Jamnagar) 94 mm, Lalpur (Jamnagar) 94 mm and Thangadh (Surendranagar), Morbi, Tankara (Morbi), Viramagam (Ahmedabad) received 71 mm.
 
 All the 250 talukas have received rainfall while 18 talukas have received between 500 to 1000 mm of rains, while another two talukas have received over 1000 mm of rains. In the month of June the state received 126 mm of rains while in the first three days the state has received 144.21 mm of rainfall. Several dams including Und, Lalpari are overflowing and National Disaster Response force team are rushed to several areas in the state.
 
