NASHIK: Candidates from all parties and independents, who lost the elections, have blamed the BJP for manipulation in EVMs and   and decided to file a   (PIL) in the  . A 35-member core committee has been formed to pursue the matter and file the PIL through noted lawyer  . 

 Retired police officer Sanjay Aparanti, who had brought small parties together and formed a political outfit named Purogami Lokshahi Aghadi, had organised a meeting on Sunday. "There had been manipulation in the EVMs during the civic elections. Seals of EVMs were found broken, while additional EVMs were found at some places. Moreover, names of voters were also located in different prabhags and names of thousands of voters were missing from the voters lists," he alleged. Ashok Satbhai, an MNS candidate who lost the election, alleged there was rampant manipulation in EVMs. "This could happen due to corrupt mechanism. The votes I received were below expectation and against my calculation. There was use of money in the election," he alleged. 
 
 Sanjay Chavan, a Shiv Sena-sponsored candidate, who was defeated in the civic polls, said the the voters lists once finalised by the election department cannot be changed. "Based on the lists, candidates had distributed voters' slips as per the serial numbers. But the voters lists had been changed again, which should have happened," he claimed. 
 
 Jayant More, an independent candidate who lost the election, said the except four-five independents, many others received only 200-400 votes. "The EVMs were faulty and manipulated. Votes of independent candidates were going for BJP candidates as EVMs were manipulated," he alleged.
 
 Indrabhan Sangle, whose wife Kalawati was defeated in the civic polls,, alleged that the use of money and power was done. "There is no use of contesting polls if elections are won on money and power. Local police were also managed during the process," he said. 
 
 Now, another meeting of candidates will be held on February 28. Moreover, it has been decided to stage sit-in agitations on March 3 for three hours from 10am to protest the manipulation in EVMs. 
 
