NEW DELHI: In order to bring in more clarity while re-negotiating with the International Cricket Council, the   sent out more than a 2000-word letter to all   members on Wednesday, asking them to be cautious on over-emphasising the 2014 revenue model during the May 7 SGM in the Capital. That is because the other cricket boards aren't going to agree with BCCI on this matter.

 "It is extremely unlikely that the   and other cricket boards will agree to the amount/share envisaged under the financial model that was put in place in 2014. The ICC and other cricket boards will certainly agree to an amount/share that is higher than what is envisaged under the revised financial model," the CoA said in an email to the board members on Wednesday.
 
 It was also made clear that ICC's top management won't budge from the already adopted revenue sharing arrangement and, therefore, BCCI's SGM should take the middle-path to reach an understanding. "It is in the interests of Indian cricket for the BCCI to continue negotiations with the ICC and other cricket boards to arrive at an amount/share that is somewhere between that envisaged under the financial model that was put in place in 2014 and that which is envisaged under the revised financial model."
 
 While throwing light on the previous BCCI AGM which approved on how BCCI should work within the collaborative framework with ICC. "An audio recording of the Special General Meeting of the Members of BCCI held on February 19, 2016 reveals that there was a recognition that the BCCI should work in a collaborative framework with ICC and negotiate a lower amount that is acceptable to all. BCCI should continue to adopt this approach in its negotiations with ICC. 
 
 "Specific details of the maximum reduction in the amount/share that the then president ( ) and secretary (Anurag Thakur) of the BCCI were authorized to negotiate and agree were verbally agreed although the same does not find mention in the minutes of the said SGM," the letter read.
 
 The CoA also warned the   not to take any drastic step that would endanger the board's capacity to negotiate the desired amount. "It is not in the interests of Indian cricket for the BCCI to take any drastic step/measure which may result in breakdown of negotiations between the BCCI, ICC and other cricket boards, especially since there is sufficient time between now and the ICC Conference to be held in June 2017 for a negotiated outcome to be arrived at," CoA wrote.
 
 The board members were also explained how the 2014 model wasn't acceptable to the Full Members. "You are all aware that a certain financial model was proposed in 2014 and accepted by the other cricket boards and the same was meant to commence in 2015/2016. However, soon after the said financial model had been accepted, there were discordant voices that emanated from other cricket boards (which have been noted by the General Body of the BCCI in February 2016) and the ICC decided to set up a working group to re-visit the said financial model," CoA said.
 
 The 2014 model also led to trust deficit. "During the course of the said discussions, the ICC and other cricket boards clearly communicated to us that the events that transpired in 2014 had led to an immense trust deficit between them and the BCCI and there was a need for trust-building in order to work together going forward. They acknowledged the fact that BCCI contributes much more to the ICC than other cricket boards and also recognized that BCCI should therefore get its due share under the revised financial model and were prepared to negotiate an amount that would be acceptable to BCCI and other cricket boards. 
 
 "At the same time, they made it clear that the share that was envisaged under the financial model that was put in place in 2014 was too high and not acceptable to them. They believed that a fair share could be something in between what was proposed in 2014 and the new financial model and could be negotiated between BCCI, other cricket boards and the ICC without the need for a vote. Our discussions indicated that the ICC Chairman and other cricket boards were keen to find an acceptable middle ground to resolving this matter in a collaborative/ non-confrontational framework," the letter added.
 
 While talking about the Member Participation Agreement (MPA) - which a selected few members of the board tried to issue a notice to ICC on Tuesday to rectify the MPA's breach, CoA said: "We understand that this communication has already been brought to your attention during the Special General Meeting held on April 18, 2017. We would like to highlight that the said communication specifically draws the attention of the ICC to the MPA dated 12th October 2014 entered into between the BCCI and IBC (a subsidiary of ICC) ("MPA") and states that the revised ICC governance structure and revised financial model will, if adopted, entitle BCCI to exercise certain rights under the MPA and also to avail remedies under applicable law."
 
 The letter then went on to explain how CoA has advised CEO   to consult necessary legal opinion on that matter. "In order to ascertain the rights and remedies that may be available to BCCI under and in relation to the MPA and otherwise in the event the revised ICC governance structure and revised financial model are adopted, the Committee of Administrators had also asked the CEO to obtain necessary legal opinion(s) from appropriate foreign lawyers on the matter. We have been informed that this legal opinion has already been shared with the existing office bearers of the BCCI and we expect that they will appropriately brief you on the same," CoA said.
 
 The Rai led committee also made it clear that the faux pas in the last ICC meetings could have been avoided if the board representatives would have acted a little judiciously. "We believe that the outcome of the ICC Board Meetings held in Dubai during the last week of April 2017 could have been avoided if the resolutions passed during the Special General Meeting held on April 18, 2017 had authorized the Acting Secretary to arrive at a negotiated outcome (within certain parameters akin to those set out during an earlier Special General Meeting held on February 19, 2016) instead of directing him to either seek deferment of a vote and, if that was not agreed to by the ICC and other cricket boards, vote against the revised ICC governance structure and revised financial model. In fact, we had communicated our apprehension regarding the lack of flexibility available to the Acting Secretary to negotiate when we met him on April 21, 2017."
 
