LUCKNOW: The sight of two competitors, covered from head to toe and clashing blades furiously shocked sport lovers as the tip of a pointed weapon touched a white body armour. It was not an Olympic moment, just women fencing making its debut in   on Wednesday. LU conducted trials for   fencing championship to be held in Guru   in Amritsar, Punjab on January 20 and 24. 

 “Like Ibitihaj Muhammad from USA, a Muslim woman fencer who won a gold medal in  , I want to make my country proud in the sport,” said Ayesha, a student participant in the trials. She said the famous international woman fencer inspires her to make career in this sports.
 
 More than 25 girls appeared for the trials for final selection of the team to represent Lucknow University at national level. In comparison, only 19 boys came for men’s team trial.
 
 “We have been sending boys for inter-university fencing championship for the last three years but after girl students evinced interest, women fencing has been introduced by the university for the first time,” said Desh Deepak, secretary of  .
 
 Another participant Anjani Shah said, “The first time I saw it, I was at the Mini-stadium, Gomtinagar in Lucknow where I decided to train in the sports. Fencing helps in making it to defence services. Ranging from ‘talvarbazi’ in the north to ‘Kalaripayattu’ in the south, Indians are familiar with fencing in various forms.” She added that it is being introduced at school level and there is dearth of women fencers who can teach, I opted for this sport to win medals for the country and later to train students in the sports,” she added.
 
 “The credit for popularising and imparting training in this sports goes to the referee and fencing coach Muhammad Yusuf Khan who is a national level medallist in the sport. He volunteered to set up camp in our university to train us in the sports,” said Ambika Singh, a woman fencer. This sport has great scope nationally and internationally,” she added
 
 “I never expected such a wonderful response in LU for the sports. I began putting up banners and hoarding at hostels to make girls learn this sports which will not only help them in career, the technique will help them in self-defence too,” said coach Muhammad Yusuf Khan. Although the university just gave its ground and could not support the students with including weapons, electronic masks, fencing suits, etc, seeing the students’ interest I decided to host camps for students free of cost in the university providing them all the things required for the sports,” he said. 
 
 Response of the youth in the university was amazing. “I had introduced fencing for boys four years ago and LU has given me national level fencing winners, so I hope same the from girl fencers.”
 
 Another participant Shipra Bharti said the sports make one physically and mentally fit, induces alacrity, muscle power and stamina that helps in self-defence at the time of emergency.
 
