KOLKATA: Residents of   in   may have had their last brush with fame on Tuesday. And, they don’t seem unhappy with it.

 The plush apartment complex in Action Area III of New Town had been in news for the past one month ever since the senior cops of Bengal went to the complex on March 31 to hand over a bailable warrant to Calcutta high court Justice C S Karnan in connection with a contempt case.
 
 After meeting the cops and refusing to accept the warrant,   held a press conference at the complex lawn, the first of many he did in the next five weeks when he had turned the complex lawn into his residential court and began delivering orders from there.
 
 Having learnt that Justice Karnan had left for his home on Tuesday morning — the day the   sentenced him to six months in jail — the residents of Rosedale, who yet again hosted a number of news reporters throughout Tuesday but realizing that with him gone the media would also leave, they didn’t mind much.
 
 “Our complex is a very quiet compound situated away from the humdrum of the city. But over the past one month, there were so many reporters, photographers, videographers, policemen and other people crowding our compound. I hope our complex can come back to normalcy now,” said a woman in her 40s, taking a stroll inside the compound with a neighbour on Tuesday evening.
 
 She was not the only one who was happy with the spotlight being taken off the complex.
 
 “The children were especially confused and taken aback seeing so many TV and newspaper reporters and policemen inside our compound. My son used to question me every time the judge held his court inside our compound. To make things worse he used to hold the court on the lawn where our children play,” said another woman, adding that several flower pots and a newly-laid patch of grass in the lawn were damaged after one such media conference.
 
 Justice Karnan, 61, used to live in a rented three bed room apartment in the ground floor of Tower I of the complex for the past eight months. Residents said he used to live here alone as his family stayed in Chennai and he only had two domestic helps and his personal assistant visiting him at his flat on a regular basis other than the driver and cops on his escort duty.
 
 Another resident, who lived in the same tower, said he barely communicated with anyone in the complex. However, he said that because of his decision to hold courts on the lawn, the residents often faced trouble while entering their tower or moving around with their cars. “I remember once the police did not allow me to take my car to the entrance of the tower as he was holding a court and press conference. I had to park it far off and had to force my ailing father walk all the way. When I tried to speak to him regarding the incident, the cops didn’t allow,” he said.
 
 The residents also had problems with Justice Karnan entering and leaving the compound using his beacon flashers and hooters. They had also reportedly asked him thrice to put it off. “We had requested him thrice at least not to use the beacon and hooter inside the complex compound. He however, paid heed to us later and used to switch it off inside the premises,” said a resident.
 
