LUCKNOW: Two   brokers were arrested on Sunday for duping scores of   to the tune of crores of rupees. The father-son duo Surender Dogra and Kunal Dogra had set up a firm   in January 15 and offered flats in   on heavy discount.

 A former nationalised bank employee, Surender had experience of working closely with a lot of construction firms. Along with his son Kunal he decided to enter the property sale-purchase market and set up an office at Lajpatnagar in Delhi and sector 63 in Noida to attract home buyers.
 
 SSP STF Amit Pathak said the duo introduced themselves to potential targets as channel sales partner of two projects,   and Casa Greens, with stakes in the two properties. They offered flats at prices much lower than market rates and displayed the properties to potential targets.
 
 Sarita Vihar, Delhi resident Ashish Bhattacharya was one such who closed the deal with the fraudsters paying Rs 87 lakh. Surender also entered into an agreement and gave copy of the sale deed to Ashish. When Ashish decided to take possession of the property, the builder told him no booking had been made in his name and the flat had been sold to somebody else. Ashish lodged an FIR at sector 39 police station in Noida thereafter.
 
 Another FIR against the duo was lodged at sector 58 police station after dentist Sandeep Nagar was duped of Rs 44 lakh. “He was assured possession of a flat in the Mascot Manorath project,” added Pathak. Meanwhile, the two had shut shop and gone into hiding after duping scores of investors and homebuyers.
 
 Soon, many more complaints poured in and a reward of Rs 5,000 was announced on Kunal, an MBA. As the hunt began, sleuths found Kunal had taken refuge in Dubai while his father Surender was hiding in Patiala, Punjab, their native place. An informer tipped STF sub-inspector Sachin Kumar about the duo’s movement in Delhi and on Sunday the two were nabbed from sector 39 near Mahamaya flyover and sent to jail. The local police had been directed to check whether builders were in collusion with the brokers.
 
