GHAZIABAD: The   Municipal Corporation has identified nearly 1,317 acres in the city for execution of redevelopment plans under the new   proposal. Portions of Vasundhara, Vaishali and   have been included in the area that has been earmarked under the Area-Based Development component of the proposal. Under the other component of the proposal, that is, Pan-City Solutions, the focus has largely been kept on urban transportation and traffic management systems.

 The proposal will be sent to the Union urban development ministry on March 31 for the third round of   in which Ghaziabad will compete with 60 other cities for selection. 
 
 Ghaziabad had lost out in the previous two selections.
 
 The area earmarked for Area-Based Development has its boundaries roughly corresponding with the Vaishali Metro station on the western side of Ghaziabad till the CISF-Vasundhara Road on the east. This area was identified through a survey conducted in the last week of January jointly by the municipal corporation and the private consultant that has been appointed by it for designing the new proposal.
 
 However, following another survey by a team led by mayor Ashu Verma on Saturday, this area has now been further increased. “Two public parks in Vasundhara township, namely, the Adarsh Park in Sector 8 and the Netaji Subash Chandra Park in Sector 4A, have been included in the area after the survey held on Saturday. There are proposals to construct open-air gymnasiums inside these two parks. The total area to be developed will now increase by a few more acres,” GMC executive engineer Sanjay Chauhan told TOI.
 
 According to officials, in order to make the proposal simpler, the Pan-City Solutions component has been designed to largely focus on an eco-friendly urban transport system and an intelligent traffic management system. The total number of pan-city solutions in the latest proposal will be kept at a maximum of six, said officials.
 
 The budget for the proposal is likely to be finalised on February 27 after the proposal is vetted by the Lucknow-based Regional Centre for Urban & Environmental Studies. A high-power committee of the state government will approve the proposal later in March before sending it to the Union government.
 
 
