Panaji/Margao:   seems divided over moves to nominate Suraj Lotlikar, treasurer of Goa Forward Party (GFP), for the lone   seat. Those in favour see this as part of the strategy to get the support of TCP minister Vijai Sardesai to defeat   candidate Vinay Tendulkar in the July 21 poll.

 Many Congress MLAs are pushing for it hoping that with GFP’s support, the BJP-led government could be toppled.
 
 Behind the scene meetings in the Congress camp seems to have put GFP, an important alliance partner of the BJP, in a tizzy prompting Sardesai to say that his party is not part of any toppling game.
 
 “GFP will not bring the government down, let me be clear on this. If the Congress wants to do it with the help of anybody else, I challenge them to do it,” Sardesai said.
 
 GFP has already declared support to the BJP’s state president as the RS candidate
 
  Sources say that BJP has information that the opposition strategists have spoken to Sardesai, who has just returned from his the 18-day visit to Canada and Japan. These moves, initiated by former St Cruz MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate, are seen as an attempt to topple the government. 
 
 Chief minister Manohar   is in the US and will be back in a couple of days. The BJP, which has only 12 MLAs in the 38-member House (two of the 40 MLAs have resigned), while Congress has 16 MLAs. Currently, non-Congress MLAs – of MGP, GFP and Independents, are supporting BJP.
 
 “In the Congress, everything is decided by their high command in Delhi. And the high command has already taken a decision in 2017 that they will not have any relation with GFP. So where is the question of us joining hands with the Congress to overthrow the government?” Sardesai said.
 
 “This is fake news. We condemn the dirty tricks which are being played with regards to the Rajya Sabha elections. We have made it clear that our party stands firmly for development and has no interest to topple the government," he said, adding that the Congress is interested in political instability in the state.
 
 GPCC chief Shantaram Naik declined to comment on the proposal to nominate Lotlikar for the RS polls.
 
 
