AHMEDABAD: Tired, pot-bellied and lack of zest makes cops a butt of jokes, but that may be a thing of the past if Vastrapur police’s initiative to provide healthy food for its personnel is anything to go by. To ensure that its police personnel get nutritious food and at the right time, Vastrapur police will introduce Gujarat’s first canteen at a police station. Unhealthy food or lack of it due to irregular working hours put cops at significantly higher health risk than the general population. Taking Mirror for Fitness campaign forward,   is all geared to make their cops healthy and fit.

 On top of putting their personal safety on the line daily, cops face longterm physical and mental health effects due to poor food habits. In the first week of February, Ahmedabad police lost three of its men to serious health complications. On February 1, Shankar Kotwal (47), assistant sub inspector of GEB police station, died due to cirrhosis of liver and tuberculosis. He died after being treated in a hospital for three months.
 
 Five days later, on February 5, Assistant Sub Inspectors Jagdishsinh Vaghela (59) and   (56) of Paldi police station succumbed to cardiac arrest. Arecent health check-up of the city’s 1,940 cops by the   revealed that 40 per cent of them, or 792 cops, suffer from hypertension, diabetes, blood pressure, anaemia and other lifestyle diseases. Taking the health of their personnel seriously, Vastrapur police will take the first step towards their well-being. It will set up a canteen as part of its Smart police station project.
 
 Staff will be provided healthy food that will include meals, seasonal fruits and juices that will meet the nutritional requirements of the cops. Visitors who will have to wait at the station for long hours too will be provided juice, according to a source. According to a top police officer close to the development, “Cops who work for 12 to 13 hours are unable to bring home food. We will provide a proper canteen for them. We will tie up with a good caterer to provide healthy food which we will give it at subsidised rates. “Hygienic food that will include the right amount of nutrients will be provided and awareness regarding that will be spread through charts.
 
 Seasonal fruits, including food cooked in less oil that contains the required amount of necessary nutrients will be high on the agenda.” Police commissioner A K Singh confirmed the development. “We will bring in food experts and nutritionists to provide guidance and provide a healthy atmosphere to boost their enrgy level,” he said. Smart police station Meanwhile, Vastrapur police station is all set to move towards a “citizen-friendly, clean and corporate style” station. The frosty surroundings and unwelcoming staff can put off the strongest of persons.
 
 Vastrapur police will make the ‘SMART’ transformation to make it easier for Amdavadis to come forward and file complaint or air their grievances in a relaxed, comfortable atmosphere. Management gurus from IIMA will put in their best practices to bring about a change in staff behaviour and office atmosphere for the SMART police station (the acronym stands for strict, sensitive, modern, mobile, alert, accountable, reliable, responsive, techno-savvy and trained). An MoU in this regard will be signed by city police and IIMA under the Smart police station project by the  .
 
 The model police station is expected to have plush interiors and exteriors which will be beautifully landscaped. The air-conditioned station will have a reception area where there will be an information kiosk, facility for water, toilets and gym, besides a rest room and a cop specially entrusted to provide counselling and guidance to visitors. The Smart police station will have plush exterior and interiors that would leave one with the feeling of having walked into a corporate style office, top cop A K Singh said. “To upgrade policing and to raise morale of police personnel, the Home department started the Smart police station project and we selected Vastrapur police station.
 
 To reduce stress at the police station, we have decided to have 8-hour duty for cops instead of 12 hours. We will also be signing an MoU with IIMA for the project at Vastrapur police station. Eleven students have already visited the station in this regard,” he said. Earlier, the government had allotted Rs 10 lakh for the project, which was later increased to Rs 57 lakh, the CP said. As per a senior police officer, “IIMA is known for its expertise in management and planning in corporates and government projects. So we chose the premier institute for this project.
 
 We will sign the MoU in the next few days for the smart police station.” IIMA faculty Dheeraj Sharma who will be handling the project confirmed, “Yes, we have had a meeting with Ahmedabad police and we will sign an MoU soon to set up the smart police station in the next few months.”
 
 
