MUMBAI: The   is likely to make global positioning system ( ) and   service mandatory for Kaali Peeli   here soon, sources said. 

 The sources said that if the quality of   had to be improved, drivers will have to provide competitive services and offer AC rides for extra fares. At present, the state government has allowed 20% extra fares for Kaali Peeli taxis offering AC rides. GPS can enable cab-tracking and passenger safety.
 
 The government issued a circular on Tuesday, directing applicants of new taxi permits to be ready to install GPS whenever asked to. It also laid down stringent conditions for permit-holders of taxis and autorickshaws in Mumbai metropolitan region. One of them is that any new permit holder will have to introduce a brand new taxi/autorickshaw on the road.
 
 “The checking of domicile (15-year residence proof) and driver badge of applicants will be done strictly before allotting a permit,” said a senior transport official. The Borivli RTO recently blew the lid off a racket by nabbing a tout and getting an FIR registered against him at MHB Colony police station. The four city RTOs have received at least 1,000 applications and 15,000 more are expected in the coming weeks.
 
 State transport commissioner Praveen Gedam appealed to applicants of new permits (autorickshaws-taxis) to stay clear of touts operating at RTOs in Mumbai region. The touts promise a permit for Rs 20,000 by forging signatures and making fake domicile certificates of the tehsildar office.
 
 The permits are in great demand as the government recently lifted a cap on them. The transport department can issue unlimited permits subject to ‘market demand’. 
 
 “Citizens should be cautious about unscrupulous agents who may land them in trouble,” Gedam warned. Borivli RTO boss Ravi Gaikwad said, “We are receiving hand delivered applications but to make the system more transparent, we propose to make the process online very soon. The system will be uploaded on Vahan 4.0 and applicants will have to simply log in, fill in details online and upload documents for verification.”
 
 He said more than 10,000 new auto permits are expected to be issued in a few months. The eastern and western suburbs have 1.05 lakh autos and the population could cross 1.2 lakh by the year-end, sources said. There is not much demand for new Kaali Peeli and Cool Cab taxi permits and the number of applications is comparatively less, sources said.
 
 
