Educational institutions in Mumbai are now more alert and have intensified their security measures following the murder of a seven-year-old student in a school in Gurugram. To address the panic among parents, several city schools have sent mails and messages to reassure parents about the safety standards in schools. However, parents are still unsure about their child’s safety and 
want to know how the authorities plan to improve security measures in schools.
 
 
 
 After the gruesome incident, schools conducted urgent PTA ( ) meetings to address the matter. Rakhi Mukherjee, Principal of Utpal Shanghvi Global School says, “We had a special general body meeting of the PTA to get feedback on what can be done over and above the system in place. We also recently hosted a MISA (Members of International Schools Association) meeting for safety and security; 55 principals from different international schools came together for it to discuss common concerns.”
 Dr Chandrakanta Pathak, Principal of   says, “Teachers and students also carried out SWOT analysis to scrutinise the situation. The PTA, along with our students, carried out an audit and brainstormed on how to tighten the security system. Our transport committee, women harassment committee and grievance cell also had meetings to review the situation with teachers and school bus contractors.”
 
 
 
 Some parents are, however, all praise for their schools as they sent out messages and emails to reassure them that the security system was in place where their children studied. Reveals media professional Amita Bahal Chhatriya, “My daughters study in  , which is a part of the Ryan group of schools. When the news broke out about the murder of a school student, we received an update about more CCTV cameras being installed in the school. They also reassured us that there were lady attendants in the washrooms throughout the working hours and separate toilets were reserved for the male bus staff. We felt a sense of relief with the mail. Having said that, I think we need strict vigilance in the school premises and monitoring of the footage being collected to prevent a repetition of such incidents.”
 
 
 
 While most schools maintain that the security systems were already in place, they have been upgraded after the incident. According to Mukherjee, “We conduct regular audits at the school to check if all the systems are in place. This includes checking the fire safety measures. We also educate our staff regularly about being vigilant at all levels. The local police station is aware of the CCTV coverage of the entire premise.” 
 Bhuvika Kukerja, parent to a 12-year-old, in Oberoi International School, Goregaon, says that the school has always been thorough about security and safety. “They even do regular mock drills with kids and the staff. This gives them a hands-on training on how to deal with emergency situations like fire, dangerous intruders, etc,” she adds.
 Businessman Akshay Tandon’s (name changed) son studies in  . “While our school had CCTV coverage earlier too, they now have additional cameras on every floor and in the lift. There is a ‘didi’ stationed outside every washroom to make the kids feel safe.”
 
 
 
  
 Schools are going out of their way to foster a healthy parent-school relationship. Adds Pathak, “Besides all the guidelines issued by the various boards and regular psychometric tests, we involve the PTA completely in all activities. Our students are equally involved. We believe that trust between schools and parents is the need of the hour. We need to maintain transparency with parents — making them equally accountable and involved. I believe that my staff and parents are my real CCTVs.” Schools have also announced an open-door policy where the parents can directly approach the principal to address a serious grievance.
 
 
 
 Apart from adhering to regular safety measures, it is not surprising to see schools hire private security agencies to maintain round-the-clock security. Says Vandana T, (name changed) a school coordinator from the western suburbs, “The school sees a rush of visitors, including outsiders, at the time of annual day, open house, school exhibitions or special functions and events. So we have bouncers to ward off any untoward situation. Many schools are discreet about hiring these bouncers, but it does add to the sense of security.”
 
 
 
 Despite all the measures taken, an air of insecurity still prevails. Some schools have also proposed that going forward, institutions will talk to the government to enforce serious punishments just like in countries abroad, so that people think twice about committing such heinous crimes. Nand Kumar, Principal Secretary, State school education department, says, “Though we have issued guidelines 2-3 years back, they still need to be revisited. We need to sensitise schools and the staff who handle students. The process has already begun in some schools, including BMC schools, where some of the best counsellors — who’ve worked at an international level — have been meeting students and the staff to understand the issues.”
 
 He adds that there are more plans to be implemented. “A meet has been organised by the government, where we will discuss measures to help us implement the safety guidelines in all schools across the state. We are also meeting people who have worked on safety audits. Parents opinion and their feedback will be given importance, too. We had the guidelines in place earlier, but the checking was not regular. But now, it’s going to be very strict. If any school is found not following the guidelines, then we will make them follow it. If there is any lacunae, then they will be given additional time to complete the process, but if it still continues to flout rules, strict action will be taken against them. We can no longer afford to be lax as the issue has taken a serious turn.”
 
 
 Mumbai Police has also taken a serious view of the situation and increased their involvement in schools. As per reports, these are the plans that are being put in place:
 
 
