The Delhi rains tried to play spoilsport at the  , but the spirit and enthusiasm to deliver the best show kept the students going. 
Day One of the SRCC YC was a low-key affair with actor   cancelling his session due to rains in Mumbai. But the line-up of powerful speakers like writer and poet  , actress  , singer   and writer Gurcharan Das were enough to keep the enthusiasm high of all those who had come for the event.
 
 
 She began her session on time, but continued way past the designated time for her, chatting with the students and sharing her life stories. Singer Usha Uthup started her session by thanking the students who had invited her at the college and said, "Thank you for inviting me here. For all those who don't know me, I must tell you that I am a singer and my name is Usha Uthup."
 
 Uthup then began on telling the story of her life as an artist. "Since my voice was different, I was always given the songs that were not the ‘conventional’ songs but I still gave my best. And all those songs were a hit even though the movie wasn't, in some of the cases."
 
 Calling herself 'cool', she added, "You know I have a great sense of humour. Every day I wake up, look in the mirror and say to God, 'You created that'! But I wish to tell you all that I come from a middle-class background. I was born in Mumbai, we are Tamils and I currently live in Kolkata. So I am a complete Hindustani. I wear a sari everywhere I go because I am proud of our country and we all should be proud of it."
 
 After talking about herself, she asked the students if anybody had any questions, and since there were none, she added, "I know you guys haven’t asked me to perform but I will perform because this is what I love doing.” She began by performing Skyfall and joked, "In the 1960s, I was singing this song in clubs and James Bond asked me if I would star as a heroine in one of his films but I denied so that I could come to SRCC."As requested by everyone, she concluded her session by singing 'Darling' from '7 Khoon Maaf'.
 
 
 After Gul Panag, Aranya Johar who is known for her slam poem A Brown Girl's Guide To Gender And Beauty, Aranya Johar took over the stage for her session. The 19-year-old began by clearing misconceptions about feminism. "We are not asking to hate men, we do not want our rights by disregarding them. We want a society where there is equality between men and women and that can be achieved with men," she said as she recited A Brown Girl’s Guide to Gender And Beauty. 
 
  
  Aranya Johar, writer and poet
 
 
 While talking about about this particular piece, Aranya said that she wrote it a week before it was up online. "I always wanted to write about feminism. But I did not want to touch upon only on one topic that is why I have picked different topics like acid attacks, marital rape and objectification of women. I was representing people like Laxmi (acid attack victim) and Nirbhaya so it was important to keep the discussion alive. I am only 19, people do not take me seriously, but when I have the mike, they listen to me. And that is why I decided to use it for something bigger and better than myself," she said.
 
 
 Author Gurcharan Das, who had his session after Usha Uthup, had only 20 minutes to wrap up his session. "The good thing is, I only have 20 minutes for my session, the bad thing is, I have to follow Usha and her energy," he said as he began his session. 
 
 
  
  Author Gurcharan Das
 
 
 The author talked about the attitude and how it is important in an employee. "A company can teach you skills, but attitude is something that can never be taught. We can take people from IITs and IIMs but what if the person is not able to deliver after a year? A attitude is the most important thing and while hiring a person, that should be kept in mind. So I would request the faculty at SRCC to teach the students about attitude and not just business strategies," he said.
 
 
 Former Miss India, actress and entrepreneur Gul Panag began her session by saying, "It is an honour for me to speak in front of the brightest minds of this country. I also wanted to get admitted to this college but did not get due to a technical reason, my school results came too late for admission here."
 
  
  Gul Panag at SRCC Youth Conference
 
 
 While talking about her journey to become the Miss India in 1999, she said that she did not win because of her looks but because of the way she spoke. "The way I looked was just a factor, but the biggest factor in winning that pageant was my ability to speak, which had me scoring above all."
 
 During the Q & A round, when a student asked her for tips of speaking in public, she replied, "I think it is important to find a role model in someone. You need to find one person and say that I want to speak like him/her. For me, that person these days is Smriti Irani. She is clear, uses short sentences and is well-versed with her topic, so I try to speak like her." When asked about her future in politics and if she will contest the elections again in 2019, she said, "I am 38 and I wish to start a family soon. My focus is on that, I don’t think I will be able to manage politics and that together."
 
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
  
  
 
