PUNE: City’s traffic police show promptness when it comes to taking action against vehicles belonging to the public illegally parked in no parking zones. However, when these cars come with political connections, the same police show laxity in following their own norms.
 
  In a clear indication exposing a nexus between the police and politicos, the former removed the ‘no parking’ sign outside the main building of the   (PMC) after an alert citizen had badgered it with 50 complaint letters pointing out how it had turned a blind eye on the cars parked there by political heavyweights, while it took strict action against similar violations elsewhere in the city.
  
  Sanjay Shitole, a businessman based in Katraj- Kondhwa Road, had been visiting the main building for some official work. Every single time that he left the premises, he noticed vehicles parked illegally in the no parking area. This was when he decided to take the issue into his hands and started complaining to the traffic police.
  
  Speaking to 
 , Shitole said, “Across the city, we witness the traffic police taking stringent action against vehicles parked in the no parking zone. Even if the vehicle is few metres outside the permissible parking lot, the police either tow it or slap a fine on the owner.”
  
  He continued, “However, when it comes to springing into action and cracking down on vehicles parked outside the PMC main building, the police turned a blind eye to the entire issue. This is only because these cars belong to political heavyweights.”
  
  Earlier, there were two ‘no parking’ boards installed outside the main building, near entry and exit gates. However, according to Shitole, influential owners continued to park their cars here without any fear of being pulled up for it.
  
  Shitole added, “As an alert citizen, it was my duty to inform the traffic police about this. Therefore, I kept sending them complaints. Now, it has been nearly one year that I brought the issue to the fore in the form of 50 letters, but not once did I see the police taking action against these vehicles.”
  
  In a recent visit to the PMC building, Shitole saw something unusual that made him lose faith in the cops. He alleges, “When I saw the spot, there were swanky vehicles parked in the same place. But, I was shocked to see that the ‘no parking’ boards had been removed. It feels like the traffic cops have now officially made it a parking zone only to avoid taking action against political big-wigs.”
  
  When 
  contacted inspector  , in-charge of the Shivajinagar traffic division, he said, “Whenever we go to take action against vehicles parked at that spot, there is always an argument between the police and owners. Most of these vehicles belong to politicians and they try to intimidate the cops. There have been instances where there was a physical fight between the police and vehicle owners. Therefore, we tend to avoid taking action against anyone here.”
  
 Most of these vehicles belong to politicians and they try to intimidate the cops. There have been instances where there was a physical fight between the police and vehicle owners
  
  
 
