YAVATMAL: Not a single party won a workable majority in the   resulting in a hung house. Out of the total 61 seats, Shiv Sena bagged 20 seats and emerged as the single largest party in the house. The BJP was the second largest party with 17 seats while the ruling   won 12 seats. The   bagged 11 seats and one seat went to an independent candidate. 

 As Shiv Sena had dubbed BJP as its “Enemy no 1” throughout the campaign, it is highly doubtful that the two parties would forge join hands.
 
 NCP and Shiv Sena had forged an alliance after the 2012 election and ruled for two and a half year. The formula may work this time as both the parties add up to the magic number of 31 seats. 
 
 The BJP has made a spectacular improvement with 17 seats against the earlier 4 seats. Similarly, Shiv Sena too has improved its strength form 13 seats in the 2012 election to 20 seats. Majority of the elected members of Sena are from Digras, Darwha and Ner tehsils which are a part of Digras Assembly Segment represented by minister of state Sanjay Rathod.
 
 Other prominent leaders who were defeated in the election include outgoing president Dr Aarti Fuphate and ex vice-president Yeyati Naik from NCP.
 
 The sub committee chairmen who were defeated in the election include Subhash Thokal, Lata Khadve (both from NCP) and Devanand Pawar who quits the Congress and contested the election after forming a local coalition .
 
 Yeyati Naik’s defeat in the NCP citadel of Pusad has been considered as a great jolt to the Naik family who ruled the Pusad — Mahagaon belt for several years.
 
 The coveted post of president is reserved for an OBC woman. One of the woman leader form Shiv Sena, who won the election, is expected to be named for the post. Pavani Kalliyamwar, Kavita Ingole, Varsha Rathod and others may be considered for the post .
 
 Shiv Sena has emerged as the largest party in the   elections too while the BJP remains in the second position.
 
 Of the 122 PS seats in 16 PS, the party wise break up is: Shiv Sena (41), BJP (33), Congress (25), NCP (18) CPM (01) CPI (01) and Independents (03).
 
 
