NEW DELHI: A family’s wait to welcome a newly-wed couple turned into a tragedy when their house in outer Delhi’s Sultanpuri caught fire. A 13-year-old girl and a woman who was seven months pregnant were killed in the  , while another girl suffered 70% burn injuries. 

 The incident took place on Sunday morning. Witnesses said the three were trapped inside even as neighbours tried to douse the flames before fire tenders could arrive. Other members of the family came to know about the blaze when they returned from the   party with the bride and the groom. 
 
 The fire broke out around 4 am. While some female members of the family had returned from the function, others stayed back. Police said the deceased, Anjali (30) and Aditi, were sleeping on the first floor. Tavishka (7) who was seriously hurt was also sleeping there. 
 
 “The room was locked from inside. By the time help could arrive, they were charred,” said a relative. While neighbours helped douse the fire, the bodies could be fished out only after the fire-brigade personnel arrived. 
 
 The owners of the house are in artificial jewellery business.
 
 “My son, Rahul, got married last night. According to the rituals, women don’t witness the seven rounds taken by the couple solemnising the marriage. So, we came back at 3 am,” said Rajvati, the groom’s mother. “This incident will haunt us for ages,” she said.
 
 After returning home, Tavishka, Anjali and Aditi decided to sleep on the first floor, while the others stayed on the ground floor. Around 4 am, the fire broke out, possibly due to a short-circuit caused by an air-conditioner on the ground floor. It soon spread to the other floors. By the time anyone could wake up, the compressor of the air-conditioner exploded. 
 
 People carried buckets of water to douse the blaze. Fire tenders and the police were called in. 
 
 Within 30 minutes, the fire was doused, but not before three people lost their lives.
 
  “A case under sections 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304 (A) (death by negligence) of IPC has been registered,” said a senior police officer. 
 
