BHOPAL:   of their Indian spies are well versed to beat demonetization blues. Post demonetization when high denomination notes were short in supply with a cap on withdrawals from banks, the handlers had advised local conduits to open several small shops and show income. 

 When  , one of the 11 suspects of espionage ring arrested on Thursday by MP cops, expressed difficulty in money supply due to invalidation of high denomination notes, his Pakistan handler was heard advising - "Tu chhoti chhoti dukan kolna shuru kar de or wahan se income show kar dena" (start opening small shops and show income from there).
 
 In the last two months security agencies had intercepted calls between Balram and his Pakistani handler, and in one of the conversation the latter was heard advising methods to manage funds and dodge taxmen."Aree yehan notebandi kay baad se halat kharab hain ....(scene after   is not good here)" Balram was heard telling to person in Pakistan over phone while discussing transaction of money in bank accounts. It was then that he was advised at length about fund management. This was confirmed to TOI by the Jammu-based police officer and sources in the MPATS.
 
 Balram, 26 - resident of   in Satna district of MP became part of the cross-border lottery fraud two years ago and was apparently used by Pak-handlers to transfer money to their 'moles' in India, said sources.. His named cropped up during investigations into transactions of two alleged ISI 'spies' from Jammu last November. 
 
 During the investigation, police learnt they were collecting secret information regarding the "locations of army, police and other security forces." The money they got in return for the service was deposited in their bank accounts. When the bank transactions were investigated, it was found that cash was deposited in Satvinder's bank account from Satna."And when the deposit slip in Satna was collected, handwriting on it matched with that of Balram. He said he had never met Satvinder. "He was given a bank account and asked to deposit cash. The money Balram deposited was given to him from Pakistan through a Hawala racket," said the officer.
 
