KOLKATA: The   ( ) headquarters in Delhi on Sunday dropped its legal threat and adopted a more conciliatory approach towards the Mamata Banerjee government’s attempt to legally reign in private healthcare in  .

 At the end of a two-day national committee meeting in the capital, the IMA asked its Bengal chapter to engage with the government and push for legal safeguards for   and insulate them from knee-jerk actions. Ironically, the Trinamool Congress-dominated Bengal chapter has been among the bill’s vocal advocates.
 
 “The court is always there, but as the last resort. For now, we have decided to ask the state IMA to approach the state government for making a few amendments in the act. We will wait and watch for the kind of response we get from the government before we decide on our next move,” said Dr K K Aggarwal, IMA national president. According to sources, many state chapters in the meeting cited similar laws which either exist in their state or have been proposed.
 
 IMA Delhi’s opposition to the West Bengal Clinical Establishment (Registration, Regulation and Transparency) Act 2017 prompted it to meet governor Keshari Nath Tripathy to protest against the bill’s provisions. The governor, however, gave his assent to the bill on March 17. “We agree that there is a need for regulation. We are not against clinical establishment acts of any state. All we want is that such an act should be fair and transparent. That is why we have asked for amending the bill,” said Aggarwal.
 
 The IMA headquarters is opposed to some clauses in the act. For example, Section 1 (4) excludes government and semi-government healthcare facilities from its purview. The national body feels this is discriminatory to doctors working in the private sector. According to newly enacted bill, doctors or the health set-up may face criminal proceedings under IPC and cancellation of licence, if found guilty of medical negligence. IMA has also sought decriminalization of medical practice, saying no doctor should be penalized unless he/she has caused a mistake intentionally.
 
 Another provision of the act is the setting up of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission. The commission, in addition to working as a watchdog on clinical establishments, will address complaints from patients and take action against private healthcare units. The commission’s verdict cannot be challenged in any civil court. The commission is in addition to existing bodies like the   (MCI) or the state Medical Council, consumer court, etc. The IMA national body wants a single-window redress system.
 
 A team from IMA Delhi is also planning come to Kolkata and meet state government officials in the second week of April.
 
