NEW DELHI: The   is likely to take up flagship explorer ONGC’s proposal to acquire the government’s entire 51.1% stake in the country’s third largest refiner-retailer   ( ) on Wednesday in a deal size estimated at over Rs 28,000 crore. The deal size could rise by another Rs 14,600 crore or so if the government does not waive the need for making an open offer to acquire an additional 26% from the market as required under norms.

 The move is in line with the government’s intention to create integrated Indian oil companies of global size and heft through mergers and acquisitions among existing state-run players. The stake sale in HPCL will also help the government meet some 38% of its disinvestment target of Rs 72,500 crore for this fiscal. “We see opportunities to strengthen our CPSEs (central public sector enterprises) through consolidation, mergers and acquisitions. By these methods, the CPSEs can be integrated across the value chain of an industry. It will give them capacity to bear higher risks, avail economies of scale, take higher investment decisions and create more value for stakeholders. Possibilities of such restructuring are visible in the oil and gas sector. We propose to create an integrated public sector ‘oil major’ which will be able to match the performance of international and domestic private sector oil and gas companies,” finance minister Arun Jaitley had said in his budget speech.
 
 Deciphering the Budget proposal, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan had told TOI, “The Budget has laid the policy. Integration is the need of the hour. Globally, M&As (mergers and acquisitions) are the trend in the oil industry. With the policy in place, companies will chalk out mergers and acquisitions in accordance to their strength and weaknesses. We will see M&A activities in the public sector oil industry in coming days.”
 
 Soon after the Budget announcement,   examined the proposals to acquire HPCL or the country’s secondlargest refiner retailer Bharat Petroleum (BPCL) — which also has an attractive exploration portfolio — and settled for the former as a more reasonable acquisition target.
 
 But don’t expect to see HPCL’s 14,000-odd petrol pumps — roughly a quarter of outlets operated by state-run companies — to change colours after acquisition by ONGC, which is unlikely to merge it and would retain the company as a subsidiary and carry on with the brand. ONGC could, as part of the entire transaction, shift its refining subsidiary MRPL under HPCL’s umbrella. ONGC holds 71.6% in MRPL, while HPCL owns 16.9% in the Mangalore-based company that runs a refinery with an annual capacity of processing 15 million tonnes of crude. HPCL has two refineries at Mumbai and Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh with a collective refining capacity of over 14 million tonnes per year.
 
 HPCL will add 23.8 million tonnes of annual oil refining capacity to ONGC’s portfolio, making it the third-largest refiner in the country after   and  .
 
 
