Nagpur: “Women and men are nurtured differently in our society. We are made to behave according to moulds — ‘you’ve got to be this’, ‘you’ve got to do that.’ It leaves us with no independent identity. Individual fights have occurred against discrimination, but it is time it turns into a movement and everyone fights boldly,” said Arundhati Vaidya, director of Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh Granthalay. 

 Vaidya was addressing the audience at an event held to mark the International Women’s Day. The event titled ‘Want change? First be bold’ saw three reputed speakers coming on the dais to share their ideas. The programme was held at Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh (VSS) on Wednesday evening. 
 
 Vaidya read out a congratulatory letter drafted for the newly elected mayor Nanda Jichkar which will be sent to her on behalf of VSS. Women staff members of VSS were felicitated. Journalist Sarita Kaushik was the chief guest. Lawyer Nivedita Palshikar, gynaecologist Anjali Bhandarkar and noted anchor Shweta Shelgaonkar were the speakers of the evening.
 
 Kaushik recalled a 2004 incident in Saudi Arabia where students were sent back to a firelit school because they were running without burka. “We should conduct honest assessment of ourselves and our double-standards. Do we want a life like men or do we want a better evolution of our gender? We need to be honest with ourselves first,” she said.
 
 “Boldness is necessary for change,” said Dr Bhandarkar, giving the example of female fabric workers in America who protested against the working conditions and received positive response. “This day is celebrated in their memory. Even today, food is first given to men because women can manage with limited resources. Women are blamed if they don’t produce a male child. Only women can help women move forward,” she said.
 
 Palshikar gave an example of how Muslim women together fought against a maulvi who said burka is just a fashion statement, and are now rightly taking on the idea of triple talaq. “If all women come together then surely something can happen. Every woman must think of her daughter-in-law as her own daughter,” she said.
 
 Shelgaonkar spoke on the same lines and supported her thoughts with examples from her own home. “Boldness comes from inside; either a trait or a result of the circumstances. What is going to be our way, only we can decide,” she said.
 
 
