:  

 :  
 
 : 90 minutes 
 
 : Danesh Irani, Meher Acharia Dar, Darius Shroff and Sumona Chakravarti
 
 : English
 
 : 3.5
 
 Ask Mumbai’s hoity-toity drama aficionados the kind of   they swear by and chances are, it will usually be a modern-day adaptation of a Shakespearean tragedy or works inspired from the new wave era. It’s a pity that fun, breezy rom-coms rarely find a place on this list. After all, many a times, these are original scripts, with contemporary writing, that reflects slice of life in the digital age. 'The Relationship Agreement' is one such entertaining comedy. 
 
 The play is about a couple who draw up a written relationship contract, to save themselves from the usual trial and error arrangement that is the norm. With the help (and resistance!) of their respective parents, they lay out all their cards on the table — good, bag, ugly — and they discuss their likes, dislikes and pet peeves. As the plot unfolds, we find out that living your relationship on the basis of a binding document may not be the best idea.
 The core concept is reminiscent of Amy and Sheldon’s relationship agreement in 'The Big Bang Theory'. Just like the writing in his previous   'I’m Bawa And I Know It' or 'The Buckingham Secret', director Meherzad Patel has weaved in contemporary references — pop culture, politics, current affairs — in his dialogues. These resonate well with audiences and they have a healthy dose of humour. The writing is witty and you’ll find yourself laughing out loud occasionally.
 
  The highlight in the script are the 50-odd clauses in the agreement; most are silly but really relevant in the day-to-day scheme of life! No matter your age or how long you’ve been in a relationship /marriage, there will be some clause you’ll relate to. 
 
 The men in the play have the best one-liners and they do full justice to it with their faultless comic timing. Unfortunately, the women, especially the character of the daughter comes across as one-dimensional and you wish she had something more to offer. This is a funny take on relationships... definitely a must watch.
 
