BENGALURU: The intelligence chief is usually the most feared and powerful figure in the chief minister’s coterie. Handpicked by the CM himself for his loyalty and efficiency, the intelligence chief is usually co-terminus with the CM. But chief minister   has created a record of sorts: He has changed five intelligence chiefs in the past four years.

 “This is the first time in the state’s history that so many intelligence chiefs have been replaced by one chief minister,” a senior IPS officer told TOI. The latest to be shunted out as intelligence chief was IPS officer M N Reddi; he was shown the door for reportedly failing to come up with warnings and counter-strategies when communal violence broke out in Mangaluru and other parts of  .
 
 The other intelligence chiefs who were forced to exit ever since Siddaramaiah came to office were: Gopal Hosur, Ashit Mohan Prasad, Soumendu Mukherjee and B Dayananda. While Hosur was moved out as he was appointed by the previous BJP government, Prasad was replaced in the backdrop of DSP M K Ganapathi’s suicide. Mukherjee and Dayananda, too, had short stints while Reddi’s transfer happened in the backdrop of communal violence. 
 
 The frequent replacements of intelligence chiefs is contrary to traditional political practices. Jagadish Shettar, former chief minister and leader of the opposition in the legislative assembly, said: “The intelligence chief is usually the eyes and ears of the CM, he is the one trustworthy person who gives feedback to the CM on what happened and what is likely to happen. But changing five intelligence chiefs in four years is a pointer to the fact that Siddaramaiah has not found a single trustworthy official in the bureaucracy.”
 
 As a result, the CM’s confidante and former IPS officer Kempaiah (who is special adviser to the home minister) became de facto police chief. 
 
 Former CM H D Kumaraswamy said: “This is a peculiar development in the state. The intelligence chief is the first person the CM would meet every day and get a briefing on all administrative issues and political developments. But changing intelligence chiefs shows the CM’s lack of trust in officials.” 
 
 A source in the CM’s office admits that several political embarrassments, such as the Hublot watch controversy or the MLC diarygate, could have been handled in a better way had there been a strong intelligence chief. However, the source maintains that Siddaramaiah’s ground-level intelligence is much stronger than intelligence inputs from officials. “Unlike previous CMs, Siddaramaiah has no imminent political threat from within the party or the opposition. The role of intelligence chief is minimized. That could be one of the reasons why not-so-keen officers were made intelligence chiefs,” the officer added.
 
 In fact, when a minister recently emphasized the need for a powerful intelligence chief, Siddaramaiah reportedly commented: “Can we run the government only on the basis of what the intelligence chief says?”
 
