NEW DELHI: The Centre on Tuesday assured the   that appropriate proceedings would be initiated against MPs and MLAs for possessing disproportionate assets and they could also be prosecuted under the Prevention of Corruption Act, even as the court expressed satisfaction on the probe by the   department against the lawmakers.

 Appearing before a bench of Justices J Chelameswar and S Abdul Nazeer, attorney general   said the I-T department had found discrepancies in the assets declared in election affidavits by seven   members and 98 MLAs with their known sources of income and further probe was on. The government also placed the status report with the names of lawmakers in a sealed envelope before the court.
 
 The report was filed as the bench had directed the Centre to brief it about the action taken by it against 289 such lawmakers whose property went up by more than 500 per cent in five years.
 
 The court, after examining the confidential report, expressed satisfaction on the ongoing probe but asked why the Centre was not taking steps for creating additional courts for speedy disposal of criminal cases filed against the lawmakers. It referred to its earlier verdict by which time- frame of one year was fixed for trial courts to dispose of the cases.
 
 The government had earlier told the court that it was for the state governments to set up special courts and it had issued advisory to the states for speedy disposal of such cases.
 
 Responding to Centre’s stand, the bench said, “It comes within your authority. Instead of advising states, why do not you create infrastructure for dealing with such cases.” 
 
 The AG, however, submitted that the apex court should pass order on the issue and the government would comply with it. “Any suggestion or recommendation of this court would have lot of force force and it would be put in force,” he said.
 
 The court was hearing a petition filed by NGO, Lok Prahri, seeking direction to the government to make it mandatory for candidates to make public sources of their assets along with the assets of their spouses and dependents while filing nomination paper for elections. 
 
 
