PONDA: If the number of people gathered for a public meeting is a sign of popularity of the candidate , then it would truly be bad news for the   (BJP) in Shiroda.

 While a public meeting of   organized by the Shiroda BJP at Chan ground in the village on Thursday (January 26) was attended by about 1,500 people, a similar campaign meeting of the same national leader in 2012 was attended by thrice that number.
 
 Sitting MLA Mahadev Naik, who is minister for industries and social welfare, both important portfolios, is facing anti-incumbency this time.
 
 Perhaps for the first time in history in this constituency, Naik was openly opposed entry into a house within the village which is known to be a stronghold of the industries minister. Observers believe that it was a rare example which could be triggered by strong anger against the elective representatives.
 
 A banner in front of the house of Umesh Borkar in Nirankal had openly questioned the minister for his “poor performance”. Another placard displayed near Siddhanath Parvat (hillock) at Borim during an annual festival had ironically criticized Naik alleging that he had made false assurances during 2012 elections.
 
 This is not all. An audio clip was in circulation on Whatsapp, wherein a group of youth had heated arguments with Naik. As per the audio chat, the youth confronted the minister for not providing them jobs, despite having worked for him in the 2012 elections. He has virtually been put on the mat. Outbursts against an MLA in such a fashion was not heard of earlier. Naik, nonetheless, appears undeterred by the criticism.
 
 Despite all the odds, Naik has his stronghold in the Panchwadi village panchayat area, Tamshirem, Borim, Bethora and Nirankal. As social welfare minister, Naik has gone out of his way to ensure that the people availed of social welfare schemes. Observers claim the anti-incumbency sentiments have led to the fallen charisma of the ‘Lotus’ in the constituency.
 
 Naik was first elected in 2007, dethroning the five-time Shiroda MLA Subhash Shirodkar of Indian National Congress. In 2007, Naik won the seat with a margin of just 1.25% (249) votes over Shirodkar. While Naik had got 9,725 votes (48.86%), Shirodkar could secure 9,476 (47.61%). Naik’s vote-share margin had, however, risen to about 10% over his rival Shirodkar. Naik had won 53.15% (12,216 votes) as against 43.31% (9,954 votes) of Shirodkar in 2012 despite a multi-corner fight.
 
 Shirodkar is once again working hard to penetrate into the BJP pockets to wrest the seat from Naik, who was once his personal secretary. Shiroda was a MGP bastion until Shirodkar moved over to the national party.He has been active for more than a year trying to woo the voters.
 
 After severing ties with BJP, MGP has been making efforts to revive its prospects. MGP leader Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar has been moving in the constituency for the revival of the party here. He has fielded the son of a former MLA. The 2.21% (414) votes that the party secured in 2002 was slightly increased to 3.52% (701) votes in 2007, but in 2012, MGP entered into a pre-poll alliance with the BJP, and there was no MGP candidate contesting the election.
 
 But, this time the regional political outfit is hopeful of taking back their erstwhile bastion from the national parties. Teenagers casting their franchise for the first time and youth are supporting young candidates. MGP’s Abhay Prabhu is seen by them as a right choice. The young brigade, led by Prabhu, is working on two levels. While they are attracting youth, the young leaders are also trying to dig into the traditional MGP votes, which have shifted to BJP and Congress in absence of an able leader from the regional outfit.
 
 Realising the situation, BJP is doubling up its efforts to retain the seat. Will Lotus bloom again here?
 
