In a nerve-wracking   finale at the Lord's in London on Sunday, Mithali and her band of gutsy girls fell short by nine runs as pacer Anya Shrubsole's match-winning 6-46 handed England their fourth World Cup. Though the 'Women in Blue' lost the final but they still managed to win the millions of hearts. 

 Here are our pick of the best five moments...
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 India's T20 skipper unleashed her aggressive instinct when India needed it the most. The 28-year-old's unbeaten 115 ball 171(20x4, 7x6) will go down in the history of World Cup as one of the most stunning innings. Coming in when India were at 35-2, she first tackled the new ball before going after the bowlers, especially after her half-century.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Playing probably her last World Cup game, the tireless Jhulan came up with the joint third best figures in a World Cup final. In what has been an otherwise average World Cup for the talented pace ace, she delivered when it mattered the most. She ripped through the England batting line-up with her second spell which read: 5-1-14-3 and made every ounce of her experience count.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Mithali may have fallen short of the crease and application in the final against England, but the stylish England, but the stylish Hyderabadi batter led from the front through the tournament.
 
 In the 409 runs she piled in nine innings, the 109 against New Zealand was the game changer for the team and not to forget her two century partnerships with   (132) and   (108) in the resounding victory.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 With 169 runs on the board to defend, Mithali brought Ekta into the attack in the second over and she responded splendidly sending back Ayesha Zafar in the fourth ball. From there on, the Pakistanis found her hard to read and play and she deservingly walked away with the player of the match.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 After watching six matches from the dugout, Rajeshwari walked in for her first World Cup in what was a do-or-die contest for India.
 
 The ever-smiling left-arm spinner from Karnataka repaid the faith of her captain with a five-for which helped India to a morale-boosting 186-run win. 
 
 
