BIJNOR: The basic   has decided to identify 50 promising students from   in each of the 11 blocks in the district and help them in pursuing their further education at  . Officials said there are 1800 primary schools in Bijnor where over one lakh children are currently studying.
 
 Often due to adverse financial conditions, children from underprivileged families are either forced to give up education after primary schooling (up till Class V) or continue studying in substandard institutions. In order to prevent bright students from losing out, the basic education department in association with non-profit organizations will conduct an internal assessment of such students through an exam and further provide them coaching to clear the mandatory entrance test for admissions into Kendriya and Navodya Vidyalayas.
  
  Pramod Sharma, a block education officer at Haldaur, said, “We have planned to provide an opportunity to 550 promising students each year. Coaching centres will be set up and a special team of teachers will help these children in clearing the entrance exam for getting into Kendriya and Navodya Vidyalayas.”
  
  Sharma added that coaching classes will be held on Sundays and other holidays. “We have started it on a trial basis in Haldaur and will soon extend it to other blocks in the district. We have urged teachers of primary, higher primary and inter colleges to give coaching to selected students. We will not seek funds from the government and will carry out the exercise with the help of NGOs, local businessmen and other members of the civil society. We will be setting up a centre in Haldaur and another one near Bijnor. The money collected from different sources will be spent on furniture, projectors and books,” he added.
  
  District secretary of Junior High School Teachers’ Association, Dushyant Kumar, said, “The plan prepared by the education officers is fantastic and will have far reaching effects on the life of poor and intelligent students. These students will get admissions in good schools and will make their future bright.”
  
  Brajveer Singh, a resident of Kambhaur village in Haldaur block, said that most parents do not have any idea about the education system and if this plan takes off, it will help in kids from poor families to do well in their lives.
