Trichy: Large number of passengers across delta districts including Trichy, bore the brunt of the flash strike as transport employees commenced their indefinite strike, a day before the date announced by trade unions earlier. 

 Citing that the government failed to address their demands, transport trade unions claimed the talks with the transport minister as failure, as the government did not show interest to settle the post-retirement benefits of transport corporation employees. Since the government did not address various issues related to payment of due pension amount, they had announced an indefinite strike that would commence on Monday, they had stated earlier. 
 
 Meanwhile, in Trichy region more than 60 per cent of both city and mofussil buses, out of the 900 buses, were brought to a halt during the noon hours on Sunday. As bus operations were abruptly stopped, hundreds of passengers waiting at Chathiram and Central bus stands were left in a lurch. As passengers were clueless about the situation, complete chaos prevailed in bus stands and bus stops. However, some of them managed to travel via private buses.
 
 In Thanjavur, 50 per cent of the buses were not operated from noon onwards. A group of protestors affiliated to various trade unions gathered at old bus stand and staged demonstrations stressing their demands. When police personnel who were posted for protection, attempted to streamline bus operation, protestors indulged in an altercation with them. 
 
 Similar situation prevailed in Ariyalur, Perambalur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts also. Only 40 per cent of the buses were seen on roads. However, there was no untoward incident in Karur district. Bus operation was not disrupted till late in the evening on Sunday.
 
 N Mani, district general secretary, AITUC, told TOI that out of 2200 buses in Kumbakonam division, 50 per cent of them were brought to a halt at their respective depots. “Employees who had to continue their shift on Monday too, had skipped their duties without taking charge on Sunday”, he said. 
 
 
