MANGALURU: Gruha Surakasha – WhatsApp based   launched by   in coordination with   is finding more takers outside the DK police unit limits.

 Interestingly, news of this security solution has reached every nook and corner of the country. Thanks to the internet, people living outside the district within Karnataka, in other states and even abroad, are WhatsApping police about their holiday plans.
 
 Ever since the security solution was rolled out officially following the field tests on December 21, 125 people who are out for their holidays, have sent details of their houses to the designated police WhatsApp number 9480805300. 
 
 While nine persons sent details of their property were from outside Karnataka, one was from a district in the state outside DK, 25 were from within the district and 52 from with Mangaluru city police limits.
 
 There were 38 users who pinged this WhatsApp number from abroad, says Bhushan Gulabrao Borase, superintendent of police, Dakshina Kannada. 
 
 This has given the police a tremendous sense of assurance about reaching out to people through technology, the SP said. Since the location of the person contacting this number is known, the police control room has been able to compile the location of users contacting us to ensure that their houses are safe, he noted.
 
 Another interesting aspect of this   security solution is that majority of them have pinged the number to test if this works or not. 
 
 This can be gauged from the fact that till December 31, out of the eight persons from within city police limits who had left their houses locked and intimated the police, five had returned and one in district police limits who had left the house locked in Belthangady, is yet to return. The rest were just testing its efficacy, he said.
 
 With constant police vigil on locked houses, there has been no case of any attempts of thefts on such houses, SP said adding that more people are expected to adopt this security solution in the days to come. 
 
 Personnel in the district control room monitoring the WhatsApp number said they have received congratulatory messages on the number thanking the police units for rolling out this security measure.
 
 
