The   is facing a   After a   with his   in his   here in October, nobody has been willing to take his place.

 Despite being a brand new police station, cops here preferred to work from an old building. To make matters worse, since October, two constables from this station had died in an accident while two others were grievously injured. These incidents had made the cops even more reluctant to work here. To ward off bad luck, they even performed a ‘homa’ inside the police station.
 
 In October last year, 42-year-old inspector Raghavendra, attached to the Malur police station in Kolar district, had committed suicide in his office. After the incident, the room was sealed for a few days for the teams of various investigating agencies to collect evidence. In the first week of November, two policemen attached to the same police station died in a road accident. The two policemen, Ashok (52) and Venkatachalapathi (35), were heading towards the station when a goods carrier hit their bike.
 
 A few days later, two other policemen — Murali and Ramakrishna — sustained serious injuries in separate accidents and had to be hospitalised. These back-to-back incidents got the policemen attached to the Malur station worried.
 
 “The old police station has never encountered such problems. A new police station was built and was inaugurated in June 2016. It appears that the problems started cropping up after the station started functioning from the new building. After the death of Raghavendra, a police inspector, Ambarish, was given additional charge and this inspector started working from the old police station premises. Within a few days, Satish Kumar, who was serving in Bengaluru Lokayukta was posted as inspector at Malur police station. To instill confidence, a few homas were performed inside the police station, particularly inside the room where Raghavendra committed suicide,” said a source at the Malur police station.
 
 Reacting to the developments at Malur police station, a senior police officer claimed the policemen attached to the station had no worries and all posts were filled. Apart from the regular constabulary rank policemen, two police sub inspectors, one for law and order and the other for crime, and the new police inspector were working.
 
 Malur, about 45 km from Bengaluru, is one of the taluk headquarters in Kolar district. It has an industrial suburb where people from different parts of the country work. The Malur police station caters to more than 50 villages.
 
 
