PUNE: The poor beau could not meet his fiancée because her flight had taken off. Worse, he was intercepted by the   ( ) personnel while walking out of the terminal building on suspicion because he was not accompanied by any airline official, as should be the case if a passenger reschedules or cancels ticket.

 The CISF personnel handed him over to the Airport police and registered a complaint of cheating and trespass against him.
 
 A senior CISF officer insisted the incident was not a case of security breach. But the fact remains that   is part of the Indian Air Force’s strategically vital defence airfield and its security is being looked after by specialized units like the CISF.
 
 The Airport police’s assistant inspector Pratap Kolte said on Monday the youth tampered with a two-month-old Pune-Chennai flight and changed the boarding date to gain access to the airport for meeting his girlfriend. But he could not meet her because the Pune-Goa flight had taken off around 12.30pm.
 
 Kolte said the CISF personnel took him into custody on finding his movements suspicious when he tried to walk out of the airport. “The inquiry conducted by the CISF with the airline’s staff revealed that he had tampered with the ticket as his name was not found on the passengers’ list of the Pune-Chennai flight. We contacted the girl on telephone and she confirmed having boarded the Pune-Goa flight. She also sent her ticket on   and confirmed that the youth was his friend,” he said.
 
 “The suspect is a first year student of CA. He is doing internship in a private firm in  . The youth, during questioning, gave us a demonstration of how he had edited the ticket on e-mail for meeting his girlfriend. He had no criminal intent. We have not arrested him because he has been charged with an offence of cheating, for which the punishment is below seven years. We have issued a notice to him, asking him to join us in the investigation,” Kolte added.
 
 A CISF official said the man made necessary changes in the ticket, but did not tamper with the PNR number. “The guard allowed him to enter the airport because the ticket appeared genuine,” he said.
 
 “While walking out of the terminal building, he was not accompanied by an airline official as is required in the case of a person leaving the airport after either cancelling ticket or rescheduling the travel plan. Airline officials are required to verify such cases with the security persons. Since that did not happen and the youth had not reported to the check-in counter of any airline, he was intercepted on suspicion,” the CISF official said.
 
