NAGPUR: Mahametro (earlier NMRCL) created history by organizing the longest human chain to demonstrate their commitment for ensuring safety during the construction of the Metro rail project. 

 The chain started from   and stretched till Narendra Nagar flyover on Saturday. Over 1000 workers at ground level participated in the activity which paved them a way to the ‘Asia Book Of Records’and ‘India Book Of Records”. Event judges Manoj Tatwawadi and Nikhilesh Sawarkar witnessed the event.
 
 Mahametro and The   (TSCI) had jointly organized a technical seminar on ‘Safety in Metro construction & Accident Prevention’ at a starred hotel in city to mark the World Safety Day.
 
 Officials and employees of MMRCL pledged to ensure safety of people working in construction sites of Metro project and general public. Founder of Safety Confederation,   said, “We must nurture the safety culture to avoid any harm at work site.”
 
 Another founder, Shrikant Deshpande emphasized on taking measures and said, “Practice safety today, it may be too late tomorrow”. 
 
 According to him, no hazards during the construction of   have been reported yet and they plan to make safest metro. “We want to develop a zero-accident Mahametro as safety is our paramount,” added director (project)  . 
 
 During the inaugural address as chief guest, Mahametro managing director Brijesh Dixit said, “ Safety is not an expenditure, it is an investment. The feeling should be inbuilt and we should lead a life abiding the safety norms. We must stay alert and ensure that the equipment being used is in the specified place and in the right condition.”
 
  The ‘ABC’ mantra for safety was promoted which means ‘Always be careful’.
 
 Metro consultant official Peter Arthey said, “This is my third project in India and I’m extremely happy about the way its sailing. What makes Nagpur Metro different from the rest is the solar electricity and environmental friendly aspects. It is going to be more efficient and the new technologies will be carried and implemented in Pune metro too.” 
 
 Director of Rolling Stock & System Sunil Mathur and director of finance S Sivamanthan too expressed their views. 
 
 Later during the day, Dixit inaugurated the 5D BIM software, which will be used for execution of Nagpur Metro Rail project. 
 
