KOLHAPUR: Nationalist   (NCP) president Sharad Pawar on Friday came down heavily on the Union government for the difficulties caused by demonetisation of old high-value currency notes. 

 “No decision on acceptance of old notes, no cash supply to cooperative banks, delay in milk and cane payments to farmers, lower rates to farm produce, all these have brought the agricultural economy to a standstill, he said at the inauguration of Bhima agricultural exhibition here.”
 
 Pawar hit out at the government for non-acceptance of scrapped notes by the   (RBI). “We had gone to the   for deposition of old notes in the RBI. The court had instructed the bank to accept the money after complying with norms. But, the RBI has delayed the process. The cooperative banks will approach the apex court once again on Monday,” he said.
 
 “The cooperative banks are not getting cash to pay cane and milk bills. This delay has stopped all economic activities in the rural parts of country,” the NCP chief said.
 
 “Customers in 31 cooperative banks have deposited Rs 8,660 core in the first five days after demonetisation. But, the RBI has been delaying acceptance of that money. The money is insured. The banks are suffering losses,” he said. 
 
 He added that, “The people were happy that the Prime Minister would unearth black money, and would deposit money in their accounts. But nothing has happened. Now, people have started asking question about the note ban.”
 
 He also blamed the government for job losses in the country. “The average number of people working under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act has been increased to 85 lakh during November, December and January, compared to 30 lakh in the corresponding period previous year.”
 
 Pawar also talked about new technologies which are being developed across world, farming without soil, and advised the milk cooperatives to produce the cow milk powder to cater to the need of chocolate companies which are keen to invest in India. The farmers should adapt to new farming method as land under farming has been declined since Independence, he said.
 
 Exhibition till Jan 30:
 
 One of the biggest agricultural exhibition in South Maharashtra, the 10th Bhima agricultural festival will remain open till January 30. 
 
 MP Dhananjay Mahadik, and convenor of the exhibition, said, “The farming sector has changed. So, farmers should be adopting new technologies. We have allotted 200 stalls free of cost to women self-help groups.” The Day One of the event witnessed many farmers with their livestock, and women self-help groups with their food items and other traditional products, besides engineering companies with solar panels to electronic pumps. The organisers have also arranged seminars and lectures on sustainable agriculture and organic farming.
 
 Shivaji Patil, a visitor, said that I have been visiting the exhibition for the past five years. 
 
 He added, “The display of various species of livestock and lectures on increasing cane production with less water and maintenance of soil health are helpful for farmers. If we implement 30% the guidance provided by scientists, it would increase efficiency in farming.” 
 
