JAIPUR: The Jaipur   on Monday witnessed a discussion on whistleblower  , the 29-year-old computer worker who in 2013 summoned journalists to Hong Kong and revealed documents he copied that showed that the US was spying not just on targeted people but on vast numbers of ordinary people. Snowden, accused of treason, now spends time in exile in Moscow.

 Guardian journalist Luke Harding, leading the discussion at JLF, spoke of his own involvement in deciding what to publish from the trove of documents handed over by Snowden. Guardian had come under enormous pressure from the UK government, and was forced to physically destroy computers that held some of these documents in the paper’s London offices.
 
 “If I had told you even eight years ago that your mobile phone or computer could be remotely controlled, you might have dismissed it,” he said, adding that this was a very real scenario now. He advised people in the audience to explore technology that protected them from hacking – including something he called ‘Signal’.
 
 He warned that the United States had built up the most pervasive and biggest security apparatus in history; other states too were involved in such massive surveillance. Recalling his time as a journalist in Moscow, he said there is a “corrosive effect” in the loss of privacy. He said he had felt the Russian state intrude into his home – putting at risk the security of his wife and small kids.
 
 On Sunday, at a talk on the murder of former KGB officer Alexander Litvinenko who later was on the payroll of British intelligence, Harding described “micro-torture” methods that were employed by the Russians – a male journalist might find cigarette stubs on the floor of his house, indicating that someone had been there. A woman journalist might find her tights, left hanging on a clothesline, tied up. Or her shoelaces tied to each other -- chilling reminders that one’s space is not quite private or safe.
 
 Harding however said there was no point in getting paranoid. What was needed was calm resistance to such overreach by the state. One must not slip into complacency, he said.
 
