PUNE: The civic body is steadily ensuring that residents of the city, particularly fitness enthusiasts, are able to work out in lush green surroundings and breathe the crisp, fresh air. 

 Recently, the   (PMC) inaugurated two outdoor gymnasiums at the   (SRPF), Group I, in Wanowrie and Shivneri in Kondhwa. With the latest additions, the number of gyms at civic-run gardens has increased to 35. In fact, mayor Prashant Jagtap and corporator Aarti Babar took a keen interest in the gyms at Wanowrie and Kondhwa.
 
 PMC chief garden superintendent Ashok Ghorpade explained that the concept of   in gardens or public places was introduced because a large number of people cannot afford to pay a huge fee to access indoor gyms. He said that senior citizens and youngsters visit the parks to jog, for a stroll or to exercise in the mornings and evenings. 
 
 The equipment installed at each of the gyms in Wanowrie and Kondhwa costs about Rs 9 lakh. As per the agreement, the contractors are to maintain the gyms for a period of two years and thereafter the civic body will be responsible for its upkeep, Ghorpade added.
 
 Jagtap told TOI, “Our main aim is to promote a healthy lifestyle. Not many residents can afford to enrol themselves at a gymnasium. The facilities at this open air gym will be free of cost. It will be available for the policemen as well as the public.” 
 
 The gyms are equipped with the latest facilities and the mayor hopes they will help the common man unwind. “With stress levels increasing it is beneficial to exercise amid nature and inhale some fresh air. The sun provides Vitamin D which strengthens bones. Exercising outside also strengthens community ties as people from different backgrounds come together to work out,” Jagtap added.
 
 Babar said, “We have opened the open air gym on an open ground spread across 5,000 sq ft in  . The ground belongs to the civic body and is used by a large number of senior citizens and others for jogging, walking and exercise.” The gyms will remain open for the public between 6am and 8am, and 5pm and 8pm.
 
 The open air gyms have also helped reshape the open space that was earlier used to dump garbage or misused by the miscreants. “We got the place cleaned and developed the facility for the residents as there are few fitness clubs here. We have also build a compound wall and installed wire fence and a gate to deter miscreants from entering the premises. The response for the facility is steadily picking up,” Babar added.
 
 Tasneem Ahmed, a resident of Shivnerinagar appreciated the initiative and suggested that an instructor be appointed to teach exercises. Another resident Datta Gaikwad said, “I prefer to jog because I cannot afford to visit the fitness club. I have heard that facilities available in the open air gym are on par with fitness clubs so I’ve decided to visit the garden regularly.”
 
 
