JAISALMER: Considering a rise in   and violation of   rules, Barmer district collector Sudhir Kumar Sharma has started an initiative where awareness of riders about traffic rules will be tested from now on. 

 Transport department and various private institutions will be organizing examinations on how much the drivers are aware of traffic rules and prizes will be given to first and second rank holders. In the series, the first examination was conducted for women below 16 years and above. The next examination will be conducted for men.
 
 In similar way, Barmer SP Gangadeep Singla has stared the first counselling centre aimed to reduce number of road mishaps. Instead of slapping fines on traffic violators, the district administration will take them to counselling centre and after imparting  , these offenders will be allowed to go.
 
 Barmer collector Sudheer Kumar Sharma said girls and women were very excited to take the examination and 382 examinees were from far flung places. The exam was organised at Multanmal Bheekchand Chajed Government Woman College between 2 to3pm on safe vehicle driving, traffic rules, signs and other subjects on motor vehicle act.
 
 He said Kamla won a scooty as first prize, followed by Chandrakanta who bagged a laptop for coming second and Chandu won a mobile as third prize. Such examinations will be organised in future too. The next exam will be for truck drivers and youth. Publicity will also be done so that maximum people can take part.
 
 Singhla said traffic violators are being imparted training for two hours at counselling centre. The   has ordered to counsel the traffic violators and in this way, national road safety week has been kicked off in Barmer. Traffic police are seizing documents from violators and sending them to transport department, where transport officers are training the drivers.
 
 According to district transport officer D D Meghani, counselling centre has been set up and vehicle drivers are being trained for the first time in the state from Barmer. Till now, 577 drivers have been trained.
 
 According to Megani, people coming for licenses are being trained and after certification, license is being issued. He said apart from showing film informing about traffic rules, question and answer is also asked orally. Those who clear viva are given certificate and participants are administered oath to follow traffic rules at the end of training. 
 
