NEW DELHI: Just as an aircraft takes off from Indira Gandhi International Airport, those peering out from the windows can see the village of  . Yet it is not just another unauthorised settlement that is so common across the expanse of the capital. The village is the site of an ensemble of   ruins, and as the Indian National Trust for Art and   and Delhi government’s archaeology department painstakingly clear away the overgrowth, they are unveiling newer aspects to the 17th century structures there.

 A gateway, mosque, enclosing wall, in fact a whole katra, or a settlement, and an authentic Mughal garden — all in various stages of decay — speak of the history of Mehram Nagar, first set up as a habitation in the mid-17th century and named after Mughal courtier Mehram Khan. The Archaeological Survey of India has already certified a darwaza (doorway) there as having been built by Mughal emperors Shah Jahan and his son Aurangzeb in the 1660s. Not surprisingly, conservationists say Mehram Nagar can be promoted as a tourist spot, especially due to its proximity to the airport. 
 
 Despite the ravages of time, most of the edifices have fortunately survived. Just a few have fallen victim to the urban sprawl. For three months now, work on the garden and katra have uncovered many structures under the unkempt foliage. 
 
 “There was such dense vegetation that one could only catch glimpse of the katra and garden,” said an INTACH official. 
 
 The project team has found large parts of the katra still standing. Three garden pavilions have also been exposed, but a possible fourth may lie hidden in the area barricaded by Delhi Metro for its construction work. 
 
 “We have uncovered chambers, arches and plaster work with fine traces buried under the vegetation,” said the official. 
 
 Excavation also helped unearthed new structures, including toilets and canopies. “We dug up a small tank with a water channel,” said an official. “Since we have only excavated a small portion of the garden, we don’t know yet where the water channel leads to.” 
 
 The conservation of the garden and katra is part of a collaboration between INTACH and Delhi government on preserving 18 monuments in Phase III of a scheme to protect and restore unprotected historical edifices. While the area has caught the attention of conservationists, it may, however, be too late to save the gateways to the Mughal hub. Only one of the three gateways stands today. One vanished decades ago and the remnants of the third can be espied among a cluster of shops and houses. Unless rescued, it too could be lost before soon.
 
 
