PANAJI: The state government has a challenging task in pursuing the protection and conservation of wetlands in Goa as per a budget proposal, as many water bodies are facing the onslaught of insensitive development and a few are in varying stages of decay. Rapid urbanization, a boom in construction activity and widening of national highways have put scores of wetlands, traditional lakes and water bodies under the threat of destruction. 

 Nuvem lake has been partitioned and truncated for the western bypass, while Salpem lake in Navelim also faces a similar threat. The St   lake has dried up due to neglect and polluting activities on its borders while an internationally-known birding site, Carambolim lake, has suffered from the influx of sewage water and other pollutants due to human activity.
 
 “All wetlands and lakes are facing a threat from development activity and it is an uphill task to implement even the existing rules,” Philip Fernandes, an honorary wildlife warden, said.
 
 Chief minister Manohar Parrikar, in his budget speech, had proposed to draft a policy for protection, conservation and development of wetlands in Goa. 
 
 “As a first step, my government will start an exhaustive survey of identifying the wetlands in accordance with the wetland rules 2010, with appropriate documentation,” he stated in his speech.
 
 The threat to traditional lakes that had sustained the agro-based economy, local communities and the environment since times immemorial has driven the villagers to rise in protest in some areas. Navelim villagers are opposing the construction of an eight-km long western bypass, demanding that instead of a huge mud embankment through Saipem lake, it be raised on stilts.
 
 “The authorities need to be sensitive before destroying lakes in the name of development, as can be seen in Bengaluru where water is being supplied in tankers to people after many lakes were buried,”  , a social activist, said.
 
 Hundreds of truckloads of mud have already been dumped in the fields, but villagers are hopeful that the government assurance to build the bypass on stilts will be honoured. 
 
 But villagers in Nuvem are regretting the environmental damage to the Rumder lake due to the laying of a four-km stretch of western bypass. The new road, however, eased the traffic flow through the congested village, PWD sources say.
 
 The government has constituted the Goa State Wetland Authority (GSWA) in August 2016 as part of the requirement of the Role of Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010. 
 
 But activists had alleged that the old rules had been diluted while the work of identifying lakes has been delayed for many years. Sources said that the process of identifying wetlands has commenced recently. 
 
 Environmentalists say that implementation of rules, which is lax, should be stricter. Identification of lakes should be coupled with a few other initiatives. “The catchment areas of the lake are important and these can be identified as the green areas of the lake,” Fernandes said.
 
