Surat: She has literally grown up feasting on cartoons from an early age and considers Indian cartoonists Mario de   and R K Laxman as her gods. 

 Meet 17-year-old Vama Gupta, a young cartoonist from the Diamond City, who has made an insightful cartoon ‘Bachelorette Room’, similar to that of Mario Miranda. 
 
 Gupta has made a series of cartoons to pay tributes to the two renowned Indian cartoonists on the occasion of World Cartoonist Day on May 5. 
 
 Miranda was a caricaturist and illustrator par excellence, who through his works, made Goa known for more than its beer and beaches. His subtle humour, soft satire and illustrations in TOI were hard to miss. Miss Fonesca, Miss Nimbupani and Minister Bundaldass were loved by all.
 
 When the cartoonist fraternity celebrated the 91st birth anniversary of Mario Miranda, Gupta was busy paying tributes to him by drawing ‘Bachelorette Room’. 
 
 Gupta, a senior secondary student of Delhi Public School, has made three illustrated magazines solely dedicated to Miranda and Laxman.
 
 ‘Bachelorette Room’ cartoon is a peep into a girl's room with its messiness, impatience and indecisiveness, every bit inspired by Miranda.
 
 “I consider Miranda and Laxman as my gods,” said Gupta, who is daughter of city-based paediatrician Dr Arvind Gupta. 
 
 “The way Miranda drew, the mad crowd was unparalleled. I learnt more about him when I illustrated a literary magazine solely dedicated to him in 2012-13 for my school,” added Gupta.
 
 According to Gupta, a cartoonist is a doctor who prescribes laughter. To tell a two-coloured, balanced and responsible idea loaded with credible flaws and oddities in a subtle way is what a cartoonist does.
 
 “Today is the time to celebrate and remember the work of these craftsmen who told great stories in frames and boxes, word bubbles either in vivid colours or just black and white,” Gupta said.
 
 “Many glanced the right-hand corner fold of TOI first thing in the morning with a cup of tea. My father had a peculiar habit of picking up the newspaper from the right corner. I asked him about it once. He said, ‘this way, I shake hands with R K Laxman every morning’,” Gupta quips. 
 
 
