BHUBANESWAR: Even after roping in over a dozen of film stars and ministers for campaigning, the ruling BJD is relying heavily on social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter to seek support of youngsters in the panchayat polls. 

 The party has prepared short video documentaries on different welfare schemes and development programmes of the government like those on women empowerment, Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana, Re 1 per kg rice, healthcare   and schemes for old age people with a punchline Ei Thara Puni BJD (this time, again BJD). 
 
 All videos contain a message of BJD president and chief minister   saying, "I am there with you in all yours bad and good moments." At the end, the video appeals to people to vote for BJD's zilla parishad candidates.
 
 Keeping an eye on the tribal vote bank, the party has also prepared songs in tribal languages. 
 
 A team of young leaders within the BJD have created special pages in Facebook and opened a separate Twitter handle to monitor the social media campaign.
 
 "Social media platforms are the best means to reach out to the youths. A majority of youths in rural areas are exposed to these mediums. Keeping that in mind, we are campaigning for party candidates in social media platforms," said BJD's youth wing general secretary  , who monitors all these activities.
 
 Senior leaders are also dependent on social media for campaign. "Since I am in-charge of a number of western Odisha districts, it is difficult for me to devote full time for my constituency. Seeking support for BJD candidates, I send WhatsApp messages to nearly 300 people on a daily basis," said senior BJD leader  .
 
 Meanwhile, star campaigners of all the party, including Siddhanta Mohapatra, Arindam Roy and  , are canvassing for the party candidates in different areas.
 
 "The people of Odisha have been reposing their faith on BJD under the leadership of Naveen Patnaik. We are just spreading the message on development," said Arindam, who campaigned for party candidates in Malkangiri district. 
 
