CHANDIGARH: The   in clashes between groups of   in the state after the new Congress government took charge has evoked sharp reactions from rival parties. However, despite allegations of involvement of its workers in violence frequently, the Congress has not reacted to the disturbing trend.

 Leader of the opposition in   said the Congress was trying to control the same “goonda tax” system and mafias that earlier enjoyed patronage of Akalis. “These are the same elements that the incumbent party had promised to root out as part of their election campaign. It is unfortunate that after a change in government, there are fights over control of truck unions and other associations,” the AAP leader added.
 
  (SAD) leader Daljit Singh Cheema also accused the Congress of unleashing violent attacks on Akali workers. “On one hand this is murder of democracy and on the other it is resulting in people being brutally killed. This sort of thing is unprecedented,” he said.
 
 “Four SAD-BJP councillors of Faridkot civic body were illegal detained and humiliated by the Zirakpur police on Monday morning. We demand a high-level inquiry into the whole incident and strict action against the guilty police officials at the earliest,” he said.
 
 Over the past one month, there have been allegations of close relatives of local Congress MLAs leading these power struggles in Bathinda, and Phillaur and Rama Mandi in Jalandhar. At Bareta in Mansa, where two people died in a clash between the Congress and Akali groups, the struggle to control the truck union started even before the new government took charge.
 
 “The political party in power eyes truck unions. Each truck union has its own territory and it is alleged that president charges ‘goonda tax’ from each truck depending upon the load and issues a slip allowing it to pick the load,” said a former union leader.
 
 Fighting it out on streets?
 
 March 12 | Clash between Congress and Akali groups over control of local truck union, resulting in killing of two Congress supporters
 
 March 14 | Akali worker Gurbachan Singh allegedly shot dead by Congress workers in Pherochichi village, near Qadian, in Gurdaspur
 
 March 14 | Two groups of transporters owing allegiance to the Congress clash over control of Rama Mandi truck union. Some members fired gunshots and a vehicle was also damaged
 
 March 18 | In a clash with SAD workers, a Congress supporter was injured in Agwan village, near Dera Baba Nanak, in Gurdaspur
 
 March 24 | Two truck operators injured in a clash between two groups owing allegiance to the Congress over control of Fazilka truck union.
 
