BENGALURU: Lab technicians across the country are up in arms against a Medical Council of India order mandating that all lab reports be signed by doctors registered with the council and its state level affiliates.

 “All lab reports to be signed counter signed by persons registered with  ,“ said the MCI circular dated June 14, in a move aimed at ensuring   in laboratories. The National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) communicated the directive to its accredited labs across the country , asking them to comply with the MCI guideline.
 
 “We are bound by the MCI guidelinee,“ said   chairperson Dr H Veerabhadrappa.
 
 Stakeholders pointed out that the minimum qualification for anyone to become a member of the MCI or its state affiliates was an MBBS degree. “One should realize that laboratory medicine is many subjects put together, like dialectology , urology , gynaecology , endocrinology and genetics, among others.To give a fresh MBBS graduate the authority to sign these reports is criminal and harmful to patients. If such is the thinking, an MBBS holder should be allowed to practise all specialties as well,“ said Dr Babli Dhaliwal, director and technical head of Central Lab.
 
 A group of biochemists and microbiologists recently met   health minister K R   and sought his intervention in the matter.
 
 Thuppil Venkatesh, principal adviser,   (QCI), told TOI that getting an MBBS graduate to sign diagnostic reports without understanding and analyzing them was fraught with danger. “The recent MCI notification has resulted in an overnight management decision to withdraw the responsibilities and signing authority of the non-medical laboratory professionals who were doing so for over seven decades,“ he said, adding that the move would marginalize non-medical professionals serving in diagnostic laboratories.
 
 Lokeshwarappa S, senior biochemist at  , has written to the Union health ministry to form a council instead that can regulate the laboratories. “Those who can not analyze the data should not ideally be the signing authorities. Treatment of a patient is based on the lab reports we give after we test samples and interpret the results and not based on theory,“ he said.
 
 Industry observers agree.There is no specific law regulating the diagnostics industry --neither on pricing nor quality -hence the need of the hour is to form a regulatory authority , say experts.
 
 `Order will divide healthcare community'
 
 The Quality Council of India has written to Niti Aayog, saying the move will divide the healthcare community into medical and non-medical professionals.
 
 Thuppil Venkatesh, principal adviser of Quality Council of India (QCI), said the draft Clinical Establishment Act needed to be revised in the interest of the country's healthcare system as the act is one-sided, favouring medical professionals. “Our ministry of health and state-level stakeholders need to have appropriate national policy which needs to empower competent persons to carry out their tasks. Hence under the apex national body for quality, the Quality Council of India, we can develop and implement a scheme for the mandatory registration of non-medical diagnostic laboratory personnel to ensure their responsibilities,“ the letter written by Venkatesh says. Thuppil said most doctors with an MD in pathology were concentrated in cities and busy signing reports in more than one laboratory. “The new directive will immediately impact rural healthcare,“ he said.
 
