 owner   has joined the fray to discuss a possible acquisition of ethnic womens wear brand   in a deal valued at slightly over Rs 1,000 crore. Kolkata-based Vedant Fashions is tapping private equity investors to pull off the biggest consolidation move in the domestic fashion industry, people with direct knowledge of the matter said.

 If successful, the deal-making would provide Vedant a strong presence in the womenswear market, where it has been trying to build a brand called Mohey . One of the most profitable Indian fashion companies, Vedant has around Rs 550 crore in top line revenue, while Soch reportedly closed last fiscal with about Rs 350 crore. The Bengaluru-headquartered MD Retail, the parent of Soch, has been in parallel talks with private equity investors and Vedant Fashions for a share sale, though some investors will be keen on investing in a merged entity, sources said.
 
 In January this year, TOI reported that three investors L Catterton, Westbridge Capital and CX Partners are in the fray to buy a controlling stake in Soch. The deal talks are still midway and the final outcome cannot be predicted. When contacted, a senior official at Vedant Fashions declined to comment on the matter. Soch CEO Vinay Chatlani said he would not comment on speculation.
 
 Indian ethnic fashion wear, which has embraced western styles in recent past to create `fusion' brands, has been galloping at 20% compounded annual growth rate. Womenswear accounts for 85% of the heavily fragmented, Rs 80,000-crore ethnic fashion market, and is buoyed by the rising disposable incomes among women. Ethic fashion sales are largely driven by occasion and celebration sales, but the recent move to adapt western trends is beginning to push some brands into office wear as well.
 
 Entrepreneur Ravi Modi founded Manyavar 18 years ago with a single store in Kolkata. It currently operates 400-plus stores across 170 locations and could be valued at over Rs 2,500 crore, or $400 million, according to recent media reports. Soch, founded by the Chatlani family , has a store footprint across 80 locations, mostly in southern and western states, and was seeking a valuation of around Rs 1,300 crore, or slightly over $200 million. Investment bank o3 Capital has been advising Soch on the share sale process.
 
 The surging investor interest in ethnic and fusion brands has rendered deal-making expensive, especially after TA Associates pumped in $140 million for a minority interest in women's fashion brand W last year.Other recent deals in the domestic womenswear market include Warburg Pincus investment in BIBA, Everstone Capital buying into Ritu Kumar and General Atlantic's stake purchase in Anita Dongre.
 
 Sources said Vedant is dis cussing a private placement of shares with two investors to finance the transaction, but it may go ahead with a small share sale to private equity investors irrespective of the deal outcome. The low-profile Ravi Modi has resisted investor overtures in the past citing highly profitable operations. Manyavar boasts of being a brand which doesn't offer discounts and tightly manages expenses.
 
 Manyavar did not expand retail outside Kolkata for nearly a decade as real estate costs and rentals remained high. The softening costs saw the brand, backed by Virat Kohli as brand ambassador, embark on an expansion drive.
 
 
 
 
