In mid-April, a woman in her thirties appeared near   near Vilankudi in the city. Soon it was found that she was mentally not sound. A Samaritan from the apartment informed social workers after providing her food. But it almost took a week for the social workers to rescue her from the spot and send her to the home for  .

 Meanwhile there were some tense moments when the woman disappeared all of a sudden, only to return the next day. “We were worried because she was young and anti-social elements could exploit her”, said  , a social worker in the city.
 
 G Edison, running ‘Hands of Compassion’ home at Alagarkovil says that there are two major difficulties while rescuing the abandoned. One is to get the consent of local police and the other is to get the rescued screened at government hospitals.
 
 With local police bogged down with loads of work, social workers struggle to complete the formalities in time. “Police personnel don’t take the decision till we meet the concerned station officer and normally we have to wait long hours”, Edison said.
 
 The other challenge is the mentally ill people disappearing from the spot. “By the time we obtain the relevant documents and rush back, they often disappear from the spot,” Sundarasubramanian stated. 
 
 The social workers feel that there should be a system like the 108 ambulance service – a   number and rescue teams – to spring into action for rescue. 
 
 When social welfare department steps in, things become easier as they rescue the abandoned with Red Cross volunteers and manage the formalities before sending the rescued to government homes.
 
 Terminally ill destitute patients are sent to a charity home at Kodai Road. The social welfare department does have helpline numbers but the department is responsible for many things and one among them is rescuing the abandoned.
 
 “We do rescue abandoned people upon receiving calls and we are also coming out with a proposal of constructing a 200-bedded facility to house the rescued people in the city outskirts”, says district social welfare officer, R Anandavalli. 
 
 Department sources say that there are three to four rescue cases every month and also agree that there is no dedicated system to rescue abandoned at once.
 
