
  
 At dawn on  , the City of Joy woke up to a new kind of street art. The `street alpana' -being touted as India's longest such creation -is 1.5 km long; it starts from Sarat Bose Road and stretches to Lake Road's Samaj   Sangha Puja. No wonder, it went viral on mainstream and social media. But who created this unique masterpiece? Students -300 to be precise; all from art colleges.
 Like every year, pandal designs across the city have seen active involvement of art college students this year. A week ahead of Mahalaya, many of them received calls requesting them to join the alpana project. And 300 of them did.Each student was paid `1,000 for the work.  , one of the participants, said she came to know about it from a college senior. “They were looking for people to work on the alpana. We gathered on the road the night before Mahalaya and were given specific areas to work on,“ she said.
 Apart from this, art college students have been working on Puja pandals for years now, earning anything around `20,000, depending on the club and the artist they work with. We spoke to a few such students.
 
 
  BISWAS GOVERNMENT COLLEGE OF ART AND CRAFT
 
 The number 3 has always been considered auspicious in Indian mythology and Dipankar has had a soft corner for it. So, when the proposal came to work on the Kailash Bose Street Sarbojonin Durgotsav pandal that has Trinayan as the theme, he decided to divide the design into the three stages of life -creation, preservation and destruction. “I've used metal, fibre and wood to depict the theme. Besides, we used metal bells and special lighting to create a better finish,“ he said.
 
 SANJAY ADHIKARI INDIAN ART COLLEGE
 According to Sanjay, there's a force in the universe that drives everything. The same force drives humans to live and to work throughout life. That life force is the theme for Naktala Udayan. We have have used different materials like bamboo, iron, fibre and air curtains to depict the movement and lucidity of a human body,“ Sanjay told us.
 
 MANASH DAS GOVERNMENT COLLEGE OF ART AND CRAFT
 Water is the theme for the Pallimangal Samiti Puja, on which Manash has worked. According to him, the theme is based on the fact that water is a life-giver that also has the power to take life. So, when the club authorities approached him, Manash decided to base it on water and its conservation. “The pandal art and installations depict the seven seas and various mythological stories relating to water, like Ganga's birth from Lord Shiva's dreadlocks,“ he said.
 
  DAS GOVERNMENT COLLEGE OF ART AND CRAFT
 Being a sculpture student, Rahul finds the art of idol-making fascinating. Since the theme of the Rajdanga Club Puja is religious harmony, Rahul thought there was no need for an idol.“But that wasn't possible, as Puja without an idol just can't happen. So, I made a transparent idol with the help of fibre and other materials.The idol has lights inside it so that it can't be photographed,“ he added.
 
 
