Vellore: A 27-year-old pregnant woman petitioned the Alangayam police to take action against an agent of   smuggling for luring her husband into the illegal activity that resulted in his death. Rajeswari of Puthur Colony lodged a complaint with the police, holding red sander smuggling agent Jalendar of Sagadevan vattam of Pommikuppam village responsible for the death of her husband Devaraj (alias) Ammulu.

 Rajeswari was seven months pregnant. After seven years of marriage, the couple was expecting their first child within a few months. Sources claimed that Devaraj was going with Jalender for the second time for felling red sanders trees and smuggling out the logs. The agent took 10 persons, including Devaraj, to the AP forest on April 17.
 
 Devaraj’s life came to an end on the next day when he tried to escape from the forest officials. He was caught in an electric fencing erected in a farm land on the periphery of the forest by the land owner to protect the crops from wild animals. He died on the spot, added the source.
 
 Rajeswari, in her complaint, stated that her husband left home on April 17. Before leaving home, he told Rajeswari that he was going along with Jalender. Since then, she did not receive any phone call from her husband.
 
 On April 19, she contacted one Ramesh of Marimankuppam village near Mittur, who told the woman that her husband and several others went to the reserve forest to fell red sanders trees.
 
 “At about 11.30 pm on April 18, a team of AP forest officials spotted them and tried to catch them. In a bid to escape, they stormed out the forest. However, Devaraj was electrocuted when he came in contact with electric fencing,” said Inspector of Vaniyambadi Taluk Station quoting Rajeswari. “Ramesh saw my husband being electrocuted,” said the woman in the complaint. Ramesh reportedly told Rajeswari that they buried her husband’s body inside the forest.
 
  Holding Jalender responsible for her husband’s death, the woman demanded the police to take stern action against him. She also urged the police to take necessary steps to bring back her husband’s dead body to perform the final rites.
 
 After meeting the deputy superintendent of police of Vaniyambadi, she lodged the complaint with Inspector of Vaniyambadi Taluk Station Suresh Babu. “The woman (Rajeswari) was urging us to get compensation from the agent who took her husband to the AP forest. I have categorically said that it was not the duty of the police,” the Inspector said.
 
 He, however, said that they would look into the issue and also inquire with their counterparts in AP.
 
 
