Jubin Nautiyal is the talk of the town these days, thanks to hits like the new version of 'Humma Humma' from 'OK Jaanu' and 'Kuch Din' from ' '. After lending his voice to actors like  ,   and Salman Khan, he’s ready with his single ' ' that has garnered over a million views in a matter of days. The song’s audio was leaked online before its official release. Jubin, however, is happy that the video is now making up for his loss. BT met him for a chat. Excerpts:

 
 We were waiting for the right time and opportunity. Unfortunately, the song was leaked online before its official release. I’m glad the video wasn’t leaked. It’s the first time this has happened to me.
 
 
 'Haaye Dil' is an expression of unrequited love. It’s about a broken heart. People haven’t heard me sounding like that. The song is also close to my heart because I broke someone’s heart when I was young and I regret that. The phase was an eye-opener. 'Haaye Dil' is dedicated to that.
 
 
 I’m glad that people are enjoying the song and liking me in the video. That’s what we worked for. Rocky Khanna directed the video well and Sayeed Quadri’s lyrics worked beautifully too. I’ve been a fan of his writing.
 
 
 The internet has made music big but it has its disadvantages too. There was a time when individual artistes were appreciated. I miss that. With 'Haaye Dil', I wish I can get the pop music culture back in vogue. I hope to bring out a few singles and then, an album. 
 
 
 'Humma Humma' is a cult number. Getting a chance to croon it was so special. I’ve been a fan of that song for years. It was amazing that I recorded the new version.
 
 
 I’m working on 'Half Girlfriend', 'Machine' and 'Commando 2: The Black Money Trail'.
 
 
 These are faces I’ve seen on TV and in newspapers for years. I’d never thought I’d sing for these stars. Music is all I know and all I do in life. But it’s overwhelming to think that I’ve lived a dream. Actually, it still feels like a dream that these actors have lip-synched to my voice. 
 
  
  
 
