NEW  : Chief minister   directed chief secretary   on Tuesday to write to the State Election Commission (SEC) for holding the civic polls through ballot papers instead of   (EVMs). 

 He expressed reservations about the reliability of the EVMs, a day after Delhi Congress chief   raised the demand in a tweet. The move comes close on the heels of BSP chief Mayawati questioning the “reliability” of EVMs. 
 
 She had alleged that they were tampered with in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls after her party suffered a debacle. Kutty later wrote a letter to SEC.
 
 In his note to Kutty, Kejriwal said: “There are serious allegations of EVM manipulation in the recently-concluded elections in five states. In the past two days, leaders of many political parties have approached me and demanded that the MCD polls be conducted through paper ballots as they do not have faith in the EVMs.” 
 
 In this regard, he mentioned the point Maken had raised: “Ajay Maken from Congress tweeted demanding that MCD polls be conducted through paper ballots. He also tweeted that Congress is formally writing a letter to me in this regard.” He received the letter latter in day. He cited similar demands from “leaders of CPM, CPI, JDU, NCP and AAP”.
 
 Citing the little time at their disposal, the CM asked the CS to ensure that the proposal reached lieutenant governor Anil Baijal by Tuesday evening and that he was willing to convene a cabinet meeting if it needed cabinet approval. However, the cabinet had not been convened by the government till the time of going to the press.
 
 Maken had tweeted on Monday evening: “Many are doubting EVMs-Not prejudiced-nor casting aspersions on results; I want @ArvindKejriwal to hold MCD elections through Ballot Papers.” In his letter to the CM, Maken alluded to reports about the “efficacy of the electoral voting machines” in the recently-held assembly elections. In a letter, that was also sent to the Delhi State Election Commission, Maken said that “serious doubts have cropped up in the minds of the voters as to the free and fair nature of the electoral process”.
 
 When, at a press conference, it was pointed out to him that the Congress had won in Punjab when EVMs were used, Maken said he was not casting any aspersions on the outcome and was only seeking voting by ballot because doubts had been raised. 
 
 “Importantly, even Supreme Court of India in January 2017 had reiterated the need of vote verifier paper audit trail (VVPAT) in EVMs to maintain 100 per cent transparency. However, the Election Commission has not been able to introduce the said technology yet,” Maken noted in his letter. “Hence, as a premier opposition party, the Congress is duty-bound to seek remedial measures to remove these doubts and ensure that the sanctity of the electoral process is fully ensured, particularly from the public perspective.”
 
 At the press conference, Maken said EVMs are not used even in developed countries like USA. “Since under Section 7 of DMC Act, the civic body elections are held under the direct supervision of the state government and conducted by the local state election commission of the government of Delhi, I seek your indulgence in this connection and an immediate affirmative action,” said Maken’s letter to Kejriwal.
 
 AAP's Jarnail Singh, who lost to former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal from Lambi, also demanded use of ballots in the elections ahead. “Although we accept defeat, we have serious doubts over the results in Punjab. There are several villages in Lambi constituency where we have received less votes than the number of volunteers we have there.
 
 
