NAGPUR: The garden department of   (NMC) on Monday registered an offence against a resident of RPTS Road, Laxmi Nagar for felling three big trees illegally to pave way for construction of a bungalow.

 Garden department officials confirmed that three trees — one each mango, gulmohar and babul and branch heads of another mango trees — were cut without requisite permission under the Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act 1975. 
 
 “We have registered a case and issued show-cause notice to Sudarshan Shende owner of the plot. The Act implies fine up to Rs7,000 and also compensatory plantation of five trees for each tree felled. Orders to fell trees were given by contractor  ,” said NMC officials.
 
 One of the owners Kartik Shende says, “We were not aware about the provisions. However, we are ready to plant at least 20-30 trees in lieu of felled ones.”
 
 The matter was first reported by an alert medical practitioner Dr Rajan Barokar, who called up environment protection NGO Green Vigil founder Kaustav Chatterjee around 7.30am.
 
 Chatterjee along with his team members Surbhi Jaiswal, Sheetal Choudhary, Kalyani Vaidya, Mehul Kosurkar and   rushed to the site. “For a house if trees are hurdle necessarily these will be felled but the law of land needs to be followed. There should be compensatory plantation elsewhere and money needs to be deposited with the NMC,” said Chatterjee.
 
 When Green Vigil members confronted, construction in charge Parag Patel refused to stop tree felling. Five mango trees are still standing on the plot. Later, Dr Barokar also reached the spot and building contractor Dayal Mulchandani was called at the site.
 
 Mulchandani admitted that no permission from NMC has been taken to fell trees. “We were not aware of the fact that permission is needed to cut trees inside own premises,” he added.
 
 Chatterjee said trees were cut to pave way for construction of a bungalow. “One mango tree was cut completely while other was on verge of being cut when we stopped work. Earlier, one gulmohar and subabul trees were cut in similar manner,” he said.
 
 Garden department took note of the complaint and accordingly Gunwant Pimpalkar did a spot panchnama and recorded statements of Mulchandani.
 
 
