NOIDA: Midnight snarls have become a problem for the commuters travelling from Noida to Delhi ever since Allahabad high court ordered the   (NTBCL) to stop toll collection on the highway, commuters claim.

 The NTBCL approached the   against the high court order and a hearing was scheduled for March 27 after the apex court ordered the CAG to file a report in this regard in January. As the HC order did not make a reference to the MCD entry tax for heavy vehicles and commercial cabs, which was earlier collected with the toll tax, poor traffic management has been triggering traffic congestion almost every night after 11 pm. 
 
 While the entry of heavy vehicles is barred on DND between 7am & 11am, and 4pm & 11pm, the highway witnesses traffic jam after 11pm, especially on week days. An average of 1,000 heavy vehicles use the   to go to Delhi every night. Following the HC order, MCD officials reserved two of the four lanes where two temporary booths were set up for collection of entry tax.
 
 Ranjit Mishra, in-charge of MCD contractor toll collection at DND Flyway, said, “The MCD entry tax for smaller trucks (12 tyres or less) is Rs 500. Larger trucks need to pay Rs 1,200,” he said. The toll collectors also collect Environment Compensation Charge (ECC)– of Rs 2,600 from loaded trucks and Rs 1,300 from empty ones. The commercial cabs are also required to pay an entry tax of Rs 100.
 
 TOI visited the spot after 11.30pm and found trucks occupying three lanes leaving very little space for other motorists.
 
 Mishra said the contractor has been making efforts to ensure that traffic is not disrupted due to tax collection. “We have found that most   are drunk who ignore our advice to form a queue. However, we will ensure that the truck drivers do not disrupt the vehicular movement,” he said.
 
 Vishal Singh, a resident of Lajpat Nagar, works as a software engineer in a Noida-based MNC. “I leave my NSEZ office at around 12am and I often get caught in a traffic jam. I do not know the right person to talk to about this issue. But the officials concerned in Delhi and Noida must address this problem,” he said.
 
 While the MCD entry tax was earlier being collected with the toll, an NTBCL official said they can collect the MCD toll and ECC on behalf of the concerned authorities, if they are approached.
 
 
