JAIPUR: A Right to Information (RTI) applicant was surprised to find that 20   in the state were handed over to private players twice. 

 Wadhwani Initiative for Sustainable Healthcare (also called WISH Foundation) took charge of some   in 2015 under ‘Scale’, a programme defined on the WISH website as a “network of smart health institutions at the last mile that includes fully functional primary health centers and sub-centers”. There was no money granted by the state government to WISH under this programme. 
 
 The  , who sought details of PHCs handed over to private players, received a list of 41 PHCs in January this year. Of these, 20 had been handed over to Lords Education and Health Society under the ‘Run a PHC’ scheme. Lords is the umbrella organization of which WISH is a part. What is significant is that none of the 20 PHCs handed to Lords was listed among the 213 for which tenders were invited by the government under the ‘Run a PHC’ scheme. 
 
 It may be helpful to understand the history of the privatization of PHCs in Rajasthan. On July 23, 2015, the state government called for proposals from private players to take over the running of 90 PHCs. This was later amended, and a fresh call on December 28 that year listed 213 PHCs for proposed takeover under the ‘Run a PHC’ scheme. 
 
 These would be handed over for a period of five years, which could be extended by another five years. For the running of each PHC, the private player would get Rs 30 lakh per year; Rs1.5 crore for the period of five years.
 
 The private partner would also be responsible for staffing the PHC, besides providing services – free services for out-patients, at least six beds for in-patients, round-the-clock emergency services, first aid, stitching of wounds, incision and drainage of abscess, dealing with dog, snake or scorpion bite, besides maternal and child health and family planning services. The government would hand over building and physical infrastructure, including equipment, furniture, drug inventory and medical records.
 
 The ‘Scale’ website shows that this was a partnership programme of the state government exclusively with WISH, which would “convert dysfunctional primary health centres and subcentres”. 
 
 The contract would extend for five years, concluding by 2020, and the aim was to create 200 robust health institutions in underserved areas of the state, including 30 PHCs and 158 sub-centres. 
 
 While no money was granted to WISH under ‘Scale’, Lords Education and Health Society (the umbrella organization under which WISH functions) would have bagged Rs1.5 crore for each of the 20 PHCs under the ‘Run a PHC’ programme.
 
 Dinesh Songara of Wish Foundation told TOI that although 30 PHCs had been taken over earlier, no money was granted by the government for the running of these. “We have now withdrawn from eight and continue to run 20, but under the ‘Run a PHC’ scheme.” Asked for details of funds received, he sought an email with queries. This reporter is still waiting for a response to the email.
 
 Director (public health)   who is responsible for the ‘Run a PHC’ scheme did not answer this reporter’s phone call.
 
 Chhaya Pachauli of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan said, “The state cannot say something in the public domain and do something else. This is tantamount to deceiving citizens. The ‘Run a PHC’ scheme must be withdrawn and an inquiry conducted to find out how 20 PHCs which had no mention in the request for proposal document were handed over to a   which was already running these with its own funds.” 
 
 
