THANE: A fresh case of extortion has been registered against fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim’s brother   and his two aides based on a complaint by a Thane-based jeweller. The complainant claimed he was forced to give jewellery worth Rs 15 lakh to Kaskar in a  .

 Sources said the jeweller owned a plot of land in Thane and wanted to sell it. “Kaskar’s aides, estate agents Mumtaj Shaikh and Israr Sayyed, approached the jeweller and said Kaskar was interested in purchasing the land,” a police officer said. The jeweller met Kaskar a few times but the deal did not go through. “Kaskar then told him to pay Rs 15 lakh. The jeweller was scared and paid in kind since he could not raise so much money.” 
 
 The officer added that there are several others who have been targeted by Kaskar but are scared to complain. Kaskar is presently in custody of the   that is investigating the suspected link of the Dawood gang with the extortion racket run in nexus with politicians. More people have started coming forward to complain against the gang that has been operational in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region since 2013, said an officer. 
 
 Police have also sought the details from the registrar’s office to verify the number of properties in the name of Kaskar’s aides. “This will help us get an idea about the extent of this extortion racket. It’s a time-consuming process but we will have information in the form of documents,” said a senior police officer.
 
 In a related development, senior inspector  , who is investigating the case, visited Thane Municipal Corporation headquarters on Tuesday evening and held a meeting with municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal for around half an hour. Sharma sought “some details” from TMC related to the extortion ring run by Kaskar as well as had some ‘personal’ work of a friend, said a source. Sharma told TOI that the meeting was not related to the case, but was to discuss a friend’s matter.
 
 Though the officer neither confirmed nor denied when questioned about if Sharma has sought details of the involvement of the corporator whose name has cropped up in the case, police are probing the involvement of corporators, who allegedly in nexus with Kaskar had extorted money from Thane builders.
 
