HYDERABAD: A 30-year-old woman from Gujarat is suffering   in a house in  .

 “Every night the owner troubles me. Please rescue me from his clutches and from the family which is torturing me. I cannot bear it any more. I can get killed here,” Hafijabanu Rajabhusen of Dholka, Ahmedabad, told this reporter by telephone from Saudi Arabia.
 
 Hafijabanu shared her tale of woe with a social worker from Hyderabad T R Sriniwas who called her up after coming to learn about her situation. Sriniwas, who is also a BJP leader in the city, immediately informed the Embassy of India, Riyadh and also the Protector-General of Emigrants (PGE), Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India about Hafijabanu’s plight.
 
 Sriniwas asked that she be traced and rescued. PGE, M C Luther, after making enquiries said she had travelled on a tourist visa. He has asked for the visa copy of Hafijabanu to make further investigation in the case. An agent in Mumbai had taken Hafijabanu to Dubai on a tourist visa in May 2016 and from there had taken her to Riyadh.
 
 The Indian Embassy in Saudi Arabia was provided the telephone number of the victim by Sriniwas. 
 
 The embassy, however, said they would not be able to trace her through cellphone location. “The law does not permit,” the embassy said. However, officials of the embassy got in touch with her on the phone and spoke to her. They also spoke to her family in Ahmedabad.
 
 Smuggled into Saudi Arabia by an agent who cheated her, and with the embassy unable to locate her, Hafijabanu wept inconsolably when TOI called her up. Hafijabanu is being made to work as a housemaid but her employer family is torturing her. “They pull my hair and beat me up. They take a stick and hit me until I bleed. To add to my woes, the man in the house is trying to sexually exploit me. I am living a nightmarish life here,” she said on phone.
 
 According to Sriniwas, the agent reportedly informed Hafijabanu’s mother that if she wanted Haifjabanu to be brought back to India, she should send another girl as her replacement. The agent had also allegedly taken Rs 2.5 lakh promising that he would bring her daughter back, but Hafijabanu is still languishing in Saudi Arabia waiting to be rescued.
 
