The first day of the new academic session may have been the usual for freshers in North Campus, but for the fuchchas of PGDAV (Pannalal Girdharlal Dayanand Anglo Vedic) College, the day turned out to be quite eventful. The contestants of 'Khatron Ke Khiladi' - '  10' winner  , wrestler   and TV actor   - visited the college in the afternoon to promote the show. The college authorities had arranged the celebrity visit for freshers and planned a fun time for them, but thanks to the unmanageable crowd, they had to leave within half-an-hour.

  
 While the girls were seen swooning over their favourite TV star Ravi Dubey, the student netas were happy to see their Manveer bhaiya visit the college. When Manveer arrived with Geeta and Ravi, the students started cheering for him, but he asked them not to. During an interactive session, a female student asked Manveer if she could hug him. He happily agreed and as soon as she went on stage, someone from the students commented, "Bhabhi bana lo," to which Manveer replied, "Bhabhi koi aur ban jayegi, isne mujhe bhai bola hai." When someone asked Manveer if he is still in touch with  , he replied, "Yeh rishtey kabhi khatam nahi ho sakte. After 'Bigg Boss', he started doing his own thing and I went for this show, so we have not had the time to meet. But he is and will always be a friend." 
 
  
  SELFIE TIME! Students from NCC click a picture with Ravi Dubey at PGDAV college
 
 
  
 Before Geeta could answer any question, everyone requested her to enact a dialogue from the movie Dangal. After she got through with the dialogue, she told everyone, "Before going on this show, I did not know that I was also afraid of a few things. You'll get to know about it once the show starts. Haan, par main apne bapu se darti hoon. Unse toh sabko hi darr lagta hai," she said. She also added, "When I wrestle, I give my best to and I compete to win, but there are some things in life that you do to enjoy (like this show)."
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 Almost all the girls in the college wanted to click a selfie with Ravi and give him a hug. When a girl came on stage to hug him, Manveer took out his phone to click their picture and joked, "I am going to send this to Sargun (his wife)." Talking about the other two contestants on the show, Ravi said, "I love Manveer and Geeta. They have supported me throughout the show. There was a time when I wanted to just say no to the show, but the encouragement that these guys gave me helped me survive."
 
  
  FAN MOMENT: A student clicks a selfie with Manveer Gurjar (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  When the interaction got over, the teachers also wanted a selfie with the celebs. And as soon as the teachers got free from the photo session, many students went up to the stage and requested the celebrities for pictures. Although none of them denied clicking selfies, the crowd got difficult to manage and chaos ensued within five minutes, which led the celebs to leave. 
 
  A student from the college told us, "They could have stayed a bit longer, but the crowd was unmanageable. Kuch galat nahi hua, sab theek tha. Par aap college crowd ka kuch nahin kar sakte."
 
  Simmi Sharma, a fresher added, "It was a dream come true for me. I am a big fan of Ravi Dubey. Woh bahut pasand hain mujhe. I wish I could also get a selfie with him."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
