PUNE: A   here has convicted and sentenced a   to 10 years’ rigorous   his eight-year-old son over a period of five years, till September 4, 2015, when the matter came to light.

 The wife of the convict had lodged an FIR with the Khadak police against her husband and mother-in-law. She alleged that her husband was abusing their son for almost five years in their house at Lohiyanagar. Her mother-in-law prevented her from approaching the police and threatened to throw her out of home if she disclosed the incident to the police. An offence under various sections of   (POCSO) Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against the two suspects. 
 
 In a ruling on Tuesday, special judge (POCSO) N G Gimekar relied on the evidence recorded by key prosecution witnesses, including the boy and the medical evidence, while holding the accused guilty of offences under Section 6 (penetrative sexual assault) of the POCSO Act and Section 377 (unnatural sex) of the IPC. No separate sentence was pronounced for the man’s conviction under the IPC offence. The court also directed the convict to pay a fine of Rs 5,000.
 
 “The court, however, acquitted the convict’s mother on account of insufficient evidence,” additional public prosecutor   told TOI on Tuesday. Ghogare-Patil examined a total of eight witnesses in support of the prosecution’s case. They included the survivor and his mother, who lodged the complaint, two medical experts and the investigating officer. 
 
 The complainant-mother had said in her statement recorded with the police that in 2007, when she and her husband had gone to her maternal home in Solapur, her husband allegedly molested a girl living in their neighbourhood. The girl’s family members had then beaten up her husband and a case was also registered. The same is pending in Solapur court. 
 
 In the instant case, the complainant had stated that she would leave home for work at a hospital every day between 8am and 4.30pm. Her two sons were studying in a school at Guruwar Peth while her husband was engaged in labour work. 
 
 On September 4, 2015, when she returned from work, she found her younger son wreathing in pain and checked his private part which was swollen. She then asked him what happened and the boy told her he cannot disclose the matter in their house but somewhere else. Panicked by his response, she took the boy to her maternal place in Solapur where he revealed his ordeal over the last five years to his mother and grandmother. The convict was arrested on September 8, 2015.
 
