Navi Mumbai:   and   have taken a cautious stand on the continuance of quarrying in the Parsik hills in their affidavits. The two city development bodies had filed their affidavits before the National Green Tribunal ( ) on Monday.

 All eyes are now on the NGT decision that would have a far-reaching impact in the city that has recently notched 8thposition among the top 10 cities in the national-level survey of Swachh city. 
 
 Both Cidco and the civic body have asked for strict compliance of green regulations, said sources. 
 
 The 70 lease rights that were granted by Cidco earlier to quarrying operators in Parsik hills fall under   jurisdiction. 
 
 The two government bodies along with other state government departments are stakeholders in the ongoing case before the national green body that asked for affidavits to be filed in the petition filed by a city resident who appealed to stop quarrying.
 
 NMMC expressed their concern of the environmental status report (2015-16) stating that mining and stone quarrying is exerting pressure on land resources.
 
 Such activities are also causing air, water and land pollution impacting the surrounding biodiversity and subsequently residents.
 
 Cidco has asked for environmental clearance certificate from the quarry owners to continue the leases to ensure complete compliance with green norms.
 
 NMMC sources told TOI, “We have highlighted our pollution concern as Cidco and Thane collector will take a call on granting of lease rights and right to quarrying/mining.”
 
 Cidco sources said, “We have insisted on green certificate by quarry owners. In case they fail to obtain thm because of major violations then we will discontinue with the lease.’’
 
 The district environment committee headed by Thane collector has been empowered for the first time to study and monitor the green compliance of the quarries for issuing the certificate.
 
 The Parsik hill quarrying case has also go several social and RTI activists involved as well as health-conscious tax payers. MPCB, in its affidavit filed earlier, stresses on a strong case for air pollution due to mining. 
 
 The case involves technical scrutiny of the hills in view of the petitioner’s case asking to stop quarrying as more than permissible limit has been mined.
 
