KOCHI: Chief minister   has warned his detractors who are joining hands with the   to destabilize the   government that their plan wouldn't work. He was making an indirect attack on the CPI and the Congress who stood with the BJP in the Kerala   issue. 

 Addressing a public meeting that marked the conclusion of the DYFI national conference in Kochi on Sunday, Pinarayi said that the situation was quite different from the one prevailed in 1959 (when the EMS government in Kerala was dismissed by the Centre). "No forces should cherish such a hope now and don't try to threaten us," Pinarayi said.
 
 Earlier, inaugurating the meeting   also said that Union government had been trying to destabilize Kerala government instilling law and order issues. 
 
 Yechury said that recently declassified documents the CIA and the National Security Council revealed that the US wanted to check the spread of communism. So, they instructed the then central government to dismiss Kerala government by creating law and order issues," Yechury said. 
 
 "Ever since, the CIA had been trying to destabilize the communist's governments which came to power in the state. Now, the BJP and the RSS are creating problems in the state in an effort to disband the government," he said. Yechury also criticized the Union Government's attitude of denying food grains supply to Kerala and termed the move as an effort to weaken the public distribution system in the state.
 
 On the controversies regarding his remark over Nataraja Pillai, a former minister of the state cabinet, Pinarayi said that he had only respect towards the late minister. He said while speaking to the reporters in Kozhikode the other day, he could not recollect the name of the land owner, and referred him as "one Pillai". "Then, some reporter said that the name was Nataraja Pillai. In fact, I was referring to Nataraja Pillai's father," Pinarayi said.
 
 "To take vengeance on Nataraja Pillai who was actively involved in anti-imperialist strike and freedom movement, the royal regime confiscated the land owned by Nataraja Pillai's father citing non-payment of tax as reason," Pinarayi said. 
 
 The family of Nataraja Pillai had sought that land which was confiscated from them by the then King of Travancore and later handed over to Law Academy should be given back.
 
 After independence, the land was leased out to Law Academy by the then agriculture minister M N Govindan Nair and in 1984, Karunakaran Government assigned the land to Law Academy after receiving market value from them, Pinarayi said. He said that it was a pity on the part of K Muraleedharan to demand taking back of the land given by his father.
 
