CHENNAI: When a team of   visited stone quarries in   on Monday to track the progress of work on pipelines being laid to   to the city, they didn’t just find answers to overcome a drought but found one to mitigate a deluge too.

 Covered by thick undergrowth and rocks, the team found an old channel — 2.5m wide and a little more than 1km long — linking   to one of the quarries, which is at a lower level than the lake. 
 
 “If we widen it, the surplus water from Chembarambakkam reservoir can be diverted into the quarry for storage in the dry months,” Arun Roy, managing director of Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board told TOI. At present, water from the lake is directed into the city’s main distribution grid, while the surplus is diverted to Adyar river. 
 
 Metrowater officials say around 30 million litres of water will be sourced per day from 22 quarries in Sikkarayapuram — around 18km from Chennai — from the first week of June. These stone quarries contain around 3,000 million litres of water, which will cater to the city's requirements for three months. 
 
 Work has started to lay pipelines from the quarries to the   in Chembarambakkam, 2.5km away. The utility has also procured a high capacity pump from the US for the project.
 
 At present, Metrowater supplies around 500 million litres of water per day, largely sourced from agricultural wells and the two desalination plants in Nemmeli and Minjur. 
 
 Officials had also identified quarries in Tiruneermalai, Pammal and Nanmangalam as potential sources. These have a combined estimated yield of 2,500mld. While the quarries in Tiruneermalai was ruled out as a source owing to high chromium content from effluent released by tanneries nearby, the quality of water in the other two areas are yet to be
 
 tested. 
 
 The total storage in the four reservoirs — Red Hills, Cholavaram, Chembarambakkam and Poondi — that cater to the city, now stands at 535 million cubic feet, less than 5% of their total capacity. The water can be sourced for one more week, said Metrowater officials. 
 
