NAGPUR: Campaigning in Nagpur in the run up to the 2017 Nagpur   has taken a hit after the Centre’s decision to demonetise old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes. This in spite of the fact that the   (SEC) increasing the expenditure limit for a contestant from Rs 4 lakh to Rs 10 lakh.

 The worst-hit party of demonetisation is  , which is out of power in the NMC for 10 years. So, instead of putting up posters on roadsides and floating advertisements in newspapers, the party is relying on old-school methods such as convening mohalla meetings, taking out padyatras and distributing pamphlets.
 
 “With no cash following a shortage of new currency in banks and ATMs, local party units are left with no option but to mobilize resources on credit,” said a Congress insider. “Even traders, who used to provide resources in the past, too pleaded helplessness,” he said. A wholesale grain merchant from Itwari too said that this time, traders are not providing any financial supports to any of the political party. 
 
  leaders in the city admitted that the party will focus on a low budget campaign. “We are in no position to outspend the BJP and Sena. We have drawn up a new strategy which we think will be more effective. Instead of spending money in booking ad space in newspapers and renting billboards, our focus will be visiting citizens’ homes and learn their problems and expectations,” a senior Congress leader said.
 
 The Congress has 42 corporators in the 145-member NMC. City Congress President Vikas Thakre recently launched the campaign for civic elections by taking out a padyatra. “We are reaching out to the people through padyatras. The response has been great. It’s clear that people are fed up of the corrupt rule of the BJP-ruled NMC. People want change,” said a Congress leader. “Election rallies may be conventional but they are very effective.”
 
 A relatively slow adopter of social media, the party will also expand its online presence to draw young voters. Besides this, the party is also using social media to appeal and reach out to its voters.
 
 While the BJP is expected to set a promotion budget of over Rs50 lakh for each ward, cash-strapped Congress is providing only resources related to campaigning materials, according to political observers. In fact, BJP is using the promotion money in booth management.
 
 So is the situation with Nationalist Congress Party. It is also keeping the election campaign a very low key affair by concentrating on door-to-door campaigning and using autorickshaws for canvassing. However, Shiv Sena and BSP are focusing mostly in slum areas to woo voters.
 
