BENGALURU: Thirty six people have died cleaning manholes in Karnataka in the past three years, according to S Balan, an advocate fighting for the rights of manual scavengers. The toll just went up on Monday when a 12-foot deep manhole in east Bengaluru's Byappanahalli turned into a deathtrap for three young scavengers. 

 But why were the three inside the manhole in the dead of the night, and when water jets could have been used for the job, is something that has left the activists wondering. They were cleaning the manhole, letting sewage into Kaggadasapura lake. The manhole had been built along the sewage line from KR Puram to Kadubeesanahalli. Of the three, all from AP,   was the supervisor and Yerayya and   were labourers, said BWSSB officials. 
 
 Despite being a criminal, non-bailable act, manual scavenging continues unabated. “It's nothing but murder. Ideally, the top BWSSB officials and contactors must be charged for murder. It's sad that only IPC's Section 304 is being invoked against the culprits and they go scotfree at the end,“ said a disappointed Balan.
 
 “Most manual scavengers belong to the Dalit communities as no one else does this `dirty' job,“ Balan said, adding that the civil society does not react to the death of a manual scavenger as they do when a soldier dies. 
  
 Admitting that making labourers enter manholes is illegal, K R Manjunath, BWSSB's chief engineer (projects) said, “It's a violation of the tender conditions. There was no need to do the job in the night. They were trying to clear the blocked manhole. The contractor could have procured a jetting machine from BWSSB and used it instead.“
 
 The sewage line laid in 201314 connects K R Puram to Kadubeesanahalli. The construction, however, wasn't found satisfactory . “The contractors didn't inform the BWSSB before starting work.No safety precautions were taken either,“ said Manjunath.
 
 BWWSB officials are working on a report on the deaths.“Notice will be issued to the contractor, Ramky Infrastructure,“ said the official on Tuesday, adding that Ramky officials could not be reached.
 
 City development minister   and mayor   visited the accident site on Tuesday. No family members of the three men visited Bowring hospital where their bodies are kept.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 We should be ashamed that manual scavenging still happens in this day and age. The cleaning of toilets and manholes by people from one of the most oppressed sections of our society, must stop. Despite the   directing the Centre in 2014 to take swift steps to end this practice, little has been done on the ground. The states, including Karnataka, have a long way to go in putting an end to it. Both Centre and the states must put in a concerted effort to eradicate this relic of the past.
 
