KOCHI: The   (DMRC) said that the high-speed signalling trials will begin on Tuesday and that the slow-speed signal trials were completed on Monday. Sources close to   said that the high-speed trials would continue for four to five days and then they would conduct integrated trial runs. After this, the commissioner of metro rail safety (CMRS) will arrive for inspection. “The integrated trial runs would be conducted on both tracks (up and down) using multiple set of trains. Already a set of six trains have arrived at Muttom yard,“ said a Kochi Metro official, adding that the operation control centre ( ) at Muttom was fully operational.

 With the state government deciding that Kochi Metro would begin operations in April, it was pointed out that the Metro would begin operations using five set of trains and one train would be kept as standby .
 
 “As of now, it can be said that there would be train services every 10 minutes. However,   ( ) will have to take a final call on these aspects,“ added the official. He said that the trial of communication-based train control and signalling system was taking place in full swing.
 
 Kochi Metro officials said 70% of station works have been completed from Aluva to Palarivattom. Meanwhile, those closely monitoring the works said that by the time the metro became operational, the stations would be ready to receive passengers.
 
 However, KMRL will have to ensure the installation and functioning of ticketing systems and put in place feeders services to help passengers reach their destinations from the stations. There are 11 stations along the 13-km stretch from Aluva to Palarivattom.
 
 The metro agency had said they would introduce feeder and security system once there was clarity on launching of commercial operations. “If these systems are put in place early, it would result in unnecessary expenses and wastage,“ said KMRL spokesperson. She also reassured that `everything would be ready' by the time Metro began services.
 
 It was on June 7, 2013 that Kochi Metro works began.
 
