NEW DELHI: Hours after the all-party meeting on reliability of  , chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter to say, “Sad that EC has backed out of  .” AAP was represented by deputy CM   and Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj in Friday’s meeting. 

 The party suggested that a hackathon should be held, along with the “challenge” ECI had thrown to the political parties to prove that the EVMs were tampered with in the recent polls.
 
 Earlier, Sisodia said, “ECI has refused to hold hackathon but has said that they were prepared to allow a challenge to prove that machines that were used in the recent polls were tampered with.” Later Sisodia retweeted Kejriwal’s remark with a caption blaming the media for “spreading false rumours about a hackathon before the elections”.
 
 While AAP is insisting on a hackathon, it is learnt that at the all-party meeting, there was a debate over the very definition of “hacking”. “This is not about a person but about the process. It is about the machines. Sir, you are looking for further improvement...further improvement is only possible when we, in principle, accept that there are certain problems within our system. If we keep repeating this is impossible, then improvement is not possible,” Sisodia said at the meeting.
 
 Later, Sisodia sought to know why the poll panel was “scared” of holding a hackathon if their EVMs cannot be hacked into. “We had tampered with an EVM in the Delhi assembly a few days back. We request the Election Commission to give us one of the EVMs used in the five state assembly polls and we will also hack into it,” Sisodia told reporters after the meeting. 
 
 AAP suggested that during the challenge, those booths where there was a suspicion of EVM tampering should be taken up. “In such cases, ECI must take printouts of “time stamp” of the EVM machine of those booths and hold in-camera discussion with the people who have filed affidavits. This should be done in the presence of a magistrate and representatives of political parties,” Sisodia said.
 
 He added that during the hackathon, technical experts of all political parties and from institutions like IITs must be given the EVMs to inspect. Polls should be held only on VVPAT-enabled machines so that paper trail guarantees integrity of the electoral process, he demanded.
 
 AAP has also sought that “in randomly picked 25% of total polling booths in a constituency, EVM counting results must be tallied with the VVPAT paper trail slips to check the accuracy of the EVM machine.”
 
 Apart from this, the party asked ECI to make the funding of political parties 100% transparent. Sisodia took on the BJP-led central government over transparency in political funding, alleging that the “current dispensation was trying to bring in corporate funds through the backdoor into party funding. “This should be stopped,” he said.
 
