KURUKSHETRA: Four renowned scientists from the fields of chemical sciences, physical sciences, life sciences and applied sciences have been named by Kurukshetra University for Goyal Prizes for 2017.

 In chemical sciences, Dr S Chandrasekhar, director, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad, has been recognized for his research work on scarce marine natural products and organo catalysis. Dr Rahul Pandit of the department of physics, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, has been selected for the award in physical sciences for his work on turbulence model for cardiac tissue and statistical mechanics and non-linear dynamics.
 
 Dr  , head, department of molecular biology, Delhi university, has been selected in the field of life sciences for his research work on signal perception and transduction in plants. He is also the recipient of Sir JC Bose Fellowship. Prof Manindra Agrawal, department of computer sciences, IIT, Kanpur, has been selected for his contribution in the field of applied sciences by researching on connections between polynomial identity testing.
 
 The committee also selected four scientists below the age of 45 for Rajib Goyal Prize for young scientists. The young scientists selected for this award are Prof  , department of inorganic and physical chemistry, Indian Institute of Science, Benguluru, in the field of chemical science; Dr Avinash Kumar Agrawal of the department of mechanical engineering, IIT, Kanpur, in physical sciences. Dr Mukesh Jain, National Institute of Plant Genome Research, New Delhi, has been selected for his research in life sciences while Dr Atul Goel of CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow, has been recognized for his research in the field of applied sciences.
 
 Among the four young scientists, Prof Govindaswamy worked on chemistry-biology interface and nanoenzymes while Dr Atul Goel worked on development of new affordable anabolic agents for osteoporosis and new fluorescent materials.
 
 KU, Vice Chancellor, Dr. Kailash Chandra Sharma congratulated the recipients of the awards and said that this would motivate other scientists to undertake further quality research work.
 
 
