After a long day of canvassing and late night return from strong right-leaning addresses, five time BJP MP   at 3:30am is in his elements at the Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur district of UP.

 In a fresh pair of saffron robes, he's mobbed by 500-odd vidyarthi's and seers inside the white marble complex as he completes his six set of aartis, including one on Hanuman, Gorakhnath and Durga, and feeds gur to cows and some grains to birds.
 
 Looking at big wall clocks, at 9, his personal attendant Kailash Chand Prajapati dutifully serves him jalpan: daliya, chana, ankurit (sprouts), milk and juice and packs his lunch in a foil paper for the rest of the day .But before that, Yogi must meet a long queue of devotees at his karyala (office) where his long portrait with a caption -Hindutva aur vikas ke abhiyaan main ramte Yogi -along with four framed Vedas, a 1994 Renington typewriter remain the attraction.“We still use typewriters to send Yogiji's notes, Parliament letters or grievances as most of the staff are from 1960 onwards and they are more comfortable working on it,“ says Ganesh, the treasurer at temple, as he counts wads of Rs 10 notes.
 
 “Public ne mood banaya hai. Dekh rahe hain? Swabhi vik roop se jab public paksh mai ho, public har baat hu maari sunnne ko taiyaar hai.
 
 Modiji desh ke pradhan mantri hain, ek samvedans heel aur sajjan neta hain.
 
 This UP election belongs to him,“ Yogi tells TOI. “It's not us who polarise, unfortunately , governments like that of Akhilesh do that by spending money for development on graveyards. I don't see problem in Modi's comments. The money should be spent on development programmes uni formly,” he adds. Considering the controversies over conversion of Christians or comments over Shah Rukh Khan and graveyards, the CISF men around Yogi are on a non-stop vigil right from the staircases leading to his room till his Toyota Fortuner.
 
 As Yogi ensconces himself on the front seat of the SUV, his aide Ballu shows him the detailed itinerary of the day. But only Yogi must direct the driver on which traffic-less routes to take.
 
 His demeanour smacks of a confident man and he's quick to assert that UP's voters are liking every bit of BJP's every discourse: on development, graveyards, electricity, Jan Dhan Yojana, LPG subsidy Atal Pension Yojana and demonetisation.
 
 Yogi defends criticism over his comments on love jihad and insists that his government, if elected, will form anti-Romeo squads in the state which will work with state police.
 
 “Love jihad was brought to our us by Kerala chief minister VS Achutanandan. The matter was seized of by Kerala and Karnataka courts. Today , UP is affected by this. We are not against love but love doesn't mean abduction of girls, acid attack and cheating with false promise of mar riages. Our force will work with police and will only expose that,“ says Yogi. As he reaches his last destination where he canvasses for candidate Sant Prasad in Khajani, he's back to BJP's popular discourse with encore of Jai Shri Ram and Bharat Mata Ki Jai chants.
 
 In between his campaign, Yogi pops in a few tablets from a brown packet with hand-written Hindi instructions, “Subah khaane se pehle“ and “khaali pet”. “They are for my allergy,“he quips. Yogi says it was he who first raised the issue concerning the Akhilesh government's spend on graveyards. “The money that was to be spent on development projects, roads, schools, hospitals was diverted to build walls outside graveyards. Now if someone calls my comments as hatred speeches, it's their wish. I don't even aspire to be the CM,” he says.
 
