KOLKATA: Two second-year students of the Marine Engineering and Research Institute in Taratala drowned in a pond on campus on Fri-day afternoon. 

 The victims have been identified as Angshu alias Angshuman Srivastava (21) and Animesh Raj (20). While Srivastava is from West Champaran and Raj is from Bolia. The families of both have been contacted and they are expected to arrive by Saturday morning.
 
  Neither of them reportedly knew how to swim. Police said that a third student — Amit Kumar Jha — had also fallen in the pond, but managed to swim to the bank.
 
 According to police sources, the pond where the students drowned is located behind the boys’ hostel. “According to what the survivor has told us, the three had decided to go to the garden behind their hostel around 4pm. They were busy searching for mangoes when they came close to the pond. The trio then decided to try some fishing. It was around 4.45pm when one of them slipped in the moss and fell in. His two friends tried to save him but they too fell into the water. Unfortunately, the place where they fell was the deepest — around 20ft. By the time the third friend swam back and sought help, the duo had drowned,” said an officer. The pond where the accident took place is used for training, with two outlets for hot and cold water.
 
 Police sources said that the victims had been taken to two separate hospitals. While Srivastava was rushed to the Port Trust Hospital, Animesh was rushed to the CMRI Hospital. Both were declared dead on arrival. The police then sent the bodies to Kantapukur morgue where the postmortem is likely to be carried out on Saturday in the presence of their family members. Srivastava’s father Prasad, who owns Harinagar Sugar Mill, has already boarded the train to Kolkata with his brother, said sources. 
 
 The second-year students are being counselled after the incident, said police sources. 
 
 Located less than a kilometre from Taratala crossing, the institute was established at the onset of Independence in 1949 to satisfy the growing need for marine engineers in India. The institution, earlier called the Directorate of Marine Engineering Training, had its headquarters in Kolkata and a branch in Mumbai under the ministry of shipping. It was renamed in 1994.
 
 
