CHENNAI: The 2013 India-Australia ODI series earned   'The Hitman' tag - his maiden ODI double-hundred in fact sealed it for the hosts on a Diwali night. Four years later, Australia are back again and Rohit is keen to "repeat" the heroics.

 "I would be happy if I could repeat the performances from last time," Rohit said on Thursday on the sidelines of an Adidas event. He, though, didn't forget to mention that this is a different Australia side than 2013. "Australia are a different side with a different team dynamics. Our team dynamics have changed. Every time you play a new series, you come with a new mind set and try to repeat the same performances. I have to think fresh and not dwell on what happened in the past. That is what I will try and do," Rohit said.
 
 Even though the selectors have adopted a "rest and rotate" policy in the Indian limited-overs set up in recent times, vice-captain Rohit, who has overcome many injuries in the past, mentioned cricketers have a "limited career" and that he "wouldn't like" to take a break.
 
 "Cricketers have a limited career. We have to make the most of the time we have. So there are no excuses of burnout or being on tight schedule. We have to play as much we can. I wouldn't like to take a break. I am coming from an injury layoff so I don't see myself doing that.
 
 "I want to play as many games as possible. Whenever there is an opportunity, I want to be on the field," the 30-year-old batsman, who smashed two consecutive hundreds in Sri Lanka, said.
 
 However, he stated that the rotation policy has been adopted to ensure guys are "more than" 100 per cent fit during match time. "We all are used to tight schedule and so much cricket is being played. And it has been happening for a while. We all understand how to take care of our bodies. We have to make sure, we need guys who are more than 100 % fit and which is why we have the rotation policy going on keeping in mind the tight schedule. It is up to each individual on how he wants to do it," he added.
 
 With spinners R Ashwin and   "rested" for the Australia series, Rohit is hopeful that the young spin trio of  ,   and   will go from strength to strength.
 
 "Axar has done well so far in the limited cricket he has played. Yuzvendra Chahal and Kuldeep Yadav are promising talents. We always look forward to them to give the breakthroughs when required. We all know wrist spinners are always helpful and they always come up with some sort of mystery all the time. We hope they go from strength to strength," Rohit mentioned. 
 
 
