THANE:   civic body is working on an Integrated Crematorium Development Plan (ICDP) that will ensure upgradation and regular maintenance of all crematoriums and burial grounds in the city.

 Civic chief Sanjeev Jaiswal announced the same as part of the five-year vision plan for the city at the first general body meeting of the freshly-elected   House where corporators complained about the ill-maintenance of crematoriums in the city. There are 59 crematoriums and burial spaces across the city, including public and private facilities. Jaiswal said the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) is mulling allocating funds for the upkeep of these facilities and assured to look into upgrading a few in the city.
 
 The proposal for a multi-faith crematorium was unanimously approved but after incorporating a few suggestions by corporators, said a civic official. Jaiswal said the city was one of the few in the state wherein adequate provision was made for such facilities in the past in the previous development plan. 
 
 Speaking about a few objections to developing such facilities in the city he said there are certain guidelines that are followed when reserving a crematorium in the   in the city. “Everyone wants these facilities but no one wants it in their neighborhood which is fast becoming a huge challenge for town planners. All our planned facilities are designed keeping in mind the 30m-buffer space from residential zones. We are working in developing more facilities at Mumbra, Wadavli and Padle to name a few,” said Jaiswal.
 
 Meanwhile, the issue of relocation of the leader of opposition’s cabin was sorted amicably. The TMC has agreed to allocate a space on the first floor of the civic headquarters.
 
 Corporator Milind Patil whose name was announced as the leader of opposition in the meet said he would rather operate from the lobby of the headquarters than accept the comparatively small ill-equipped office allocated by the administration. Patil was seconded by   leader in the House, Milind Patankar, along with Sena leader Naresh Mhaske who was anointed as the leader of the House also supported the move. Mayor Meenakshi Shinde asked the TMC to find an alternative space for the cabin of the leader of opposition. 
 
 Jaiswal later told the House that the relocation was justified as they wanted the entire level to have offices of administrative heads and presented a spacious option on the first floor that could be converted into the cabin. 
 
 The issue of maintaining crematoriums was raised during approval of the multi-faith crematorium at Bhayenderpada. The demand for space for the deceased members of the Sunni Muslim, Suravi and the Jain communities was also discussed
 
