Three years ago, an   on board a  , was left alone to tend to their ailments at their   on a flight to Ontario, Canada. The   which at times restricts the couple to  , were ignored by the pre-informed attendants for hours. Left starving and forced to quit their Ontario stay midway due to bad health, they knocked the Pune district consumer court’s doors, which ordered the aviation giant to pay Rs 2 lakh to the couple for poor services.

 Complainants Naruddin (78) and Doulat Merchant (75) are the owners of the well-established Hotel Royal Executive. They live on the Boat Club Road.
 
 In 2013, they boarded a Pune-Orlando flight which had a six-hour stop at Frankfurt International Airport, where their ordeals began right from the word go.
 
 As promised, they were supposed to be escorted to the business class lounge for refreshments. However, the wheelchair attendant denied his duties as he left them at the gate waiting for six hours without any communication. They further alleged that despite intimating the attendants about their ailments, no food or beverages were provided to the couple. The airline’s gross negligence famished the couple causing ill-health and forcing them to cut their stay with their son and daughter midway.
 
 Advocate Aashutosh Srivastava, who represented the couple, confirmed of having informed the airline about the senior citizens’ health and had also talked about the need for wheelchairs. “The airline did not uphold its promises to the passengers with business class tickets,” he said.
 
 In their complaint, the Merchants also submitted that the unexpected trauma cost them a lot as they had to spend on medicines. Naruddin, who is diabetic, was also diagnosed with triple vessel disease due to starvation.
 
 He told Pune Mirror, “We had to spend Rs 22,000 for an early departure from Orlando. We were supposed to return on October 25, 2013. But, due to the disgraceful treatment of the airline, we were compelled to return on September 16, 2013. When my daughter tried to contact the company to report the mistreatment, they did not entertain her.”
 
 Naruddin followed up with the company by sending emails to no response. With no option left, the couple filed a complaint and claimed a refund of Rs 3,75,000 and also claimed Rs 15 lakh for causing mental and physical agony.
 
 During the hearing before the forum, judge V P Utpat and expert member Omkar Patil, the respondents including   and Riya Travels and Tours Pvt Ltd appeared and resisted the consumer’s complaint by filing separate written versions.
 
 According to Lufthansa, there was “no deficiency” in airline’s services and it is not at all liable for the complainants’ ill health. It instead blamed the couple for its plight. Lufthansa further refused to admit to the wheelchair attendant denying his duty. It is also contended that the wheelchair attendants are trained to treat all passengers with reduced mobility equally and take care of them irrespective of their economic and social strata.
 
 While the airline vigorously defended its services, the travel agency said that its role had ended as soon as they handed over the tickets.
 
 After listening to the defendants, the complainants were asked to produce documentary evidence of their dwindling health. A doctor had, in fact, diagnosed Naruddin with triple vessel disease which had particularly arisen out of starvation. Furthermore,both he and Doulat have had heart surgeries.
 
 Upon scrutinising the evidence, the forum’s order said, “The complainants were totally ignored by the airport facilities. They need not expect courtesy, but it was their valuable right to obtain facilities at the airport. Entire scenario portrays the airline’s ridiculous attitude.”
 
 The forum summed up the couple’s plight as a result of “gross deficiency” in service and said that the hospitality’s importance to consumer has died down over the years. It added, “When a consumer is a foreigner, utmost care must be taken because he/ she is solely depending upon the quality of services provided, which ultimately reflects in making or marring the image of country.”
 
 When contacted Lufthansa Airlines through email for their comment on the court order, it replied saying, “We are sorry to hear that these clients seem not to have received the service and support they had been expected. At the outset, we would like to state that we are yet to be formally served with the certified copy of the judgement. The copy of the judgment has been forwarded to our legal team who will look into all the details and evaluate the situation with the stakeholders involved, which would require time. At this point in time, it’s not possible to come up with a comprehensive feedback/statement about this case and we ask for your understanding.”
 
