VISAKHAPATNAM:   (GVMC) is working out a special   for   this year.

 Based on past experiences when work in industries like   was halted due to lack of water, the GVMC has already started making arrangements to overcome such crisis situations in the ensuing season.
 
 According to sources, the GVMC is planning to spend up to Rs 15 crore to ensure hassle-free water supply to 22 lakh residents within its limits covering eight zones including Anakapalli and Bheemili.
 
 Sources in the corporation confirmed to TOI that district collector Pravin Kumar and GVMC commissioner M   were instructed by the government to come up with a detailed report on the summer action plan by three weeks. 
 
 As per reports of civic officials, last year nearly Rs 10 crore was spent under the summer action plan, but many residences still faced severe shortage of drinking water. 
 
 Following complaints from local MLAs, the municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) ministry asked some civic bodies including the GVMC to prepare a comprehensive summer action plan.
 
 “We were asked to work on a comprehensive summer action plan for 2017. We prepare such plans every year, but this time, we were asked to take permanent measures as demand for water is increasing with the growth in population in the city. This apart, the government has also gave a green nod to rework the Purushottampuram irrigation project, which can supply sufficient water to the city,” said a senior engineer from GVMC.
 
 “We do make all arrangements to cope with the demand for drinking water in the summer months. This time, we will make better arrangements than earlier,” district collect and GVMC special officer Pravin Kumar said.
 
 According to officials from the water supply wing of GVMC, there is demand for nearly 80 mld (million litres per day) and the civic body is presently able to supply between 60MLD and 70MLD.
 
 “As against the international standard of 156 litres per head per day, the GVMC has been supplying between 110 and 115 litres per day” said a GVMC official.
 
 The summer action plan comprises stocking of requisite materials for supply network, reservoir, repairing borewells, laying new pipelines, desiltation of drains, cleaning of tanks and plying water tankers. 
 
 Water tankers will also make 80 to 100 additional trips to meet the demand of places where there is no water supply through pipelines. 
 
 The existing borewells will be flushed and turned functional. Minor problems like power failure at pumping stations or leakages in pipelines or valves will also be monitored. 
 
