RAJKOT: Three days after suspected double-murder case in which police claimed that two youths were murdered during clash against each other, an FIR was lodged against unidentified persons including police personnel with   in Rajkot.

 Kin of the deceased has accused that both youths - Shaktisinh Zala (19) and Prakash Lunagariya (35), died due to police torture in their custody but cops scripted the clash and murder story to hide the facts.
  
 Police dubbed the deaths of two persons who were killed reportedly in a clash between gang members over sharing of loot booty on Sunday night. Shaktisinh Zala (19), who was accused of killing a constable last year and Prakash Lunagariya, an alleged bootlegger, were found dead on Aji river bank on January 1. Lunagariya's family has alleged that he was killed in police custody and have refused to accept his body.
  
 However, Lunagariya’s family accepted the dead body on Wednesday late night after an FIR was lodged in Rajkot. Earlier on Wednesday, they got support from Sardar Patel Group (SPG) whose leader Lalji Patel met police commissioner Anoopam Singh Gehlot taking along the deceased's kin.
 
 Lunagariya belongs to the Patel community. His father Devraj and family members have demanded a CBI probe into the case. They alleged that the policemen, including those from the detection of crime branch, have scripted a false loot story to cover up the custodial deaths.
 
 In a letter to the city police chief, Devraj has named Bhaktinagar police inspector (PI) VK Gadhvi, crime branch PI H M Gadhvi, crime branch police sub-inspectors R C Kananiya and K K Jadeja as well as policemen from Thorala police station. TOI tried to contact all these policemen as well as Gehlot but none of them responded to the calls. Even Shaktisinh's mother, Neetaba had refused to buy the version of events by the police and alleged that her son was murdered in their custody. She said that her son was in the custody of Bhaktinagar police on Sunday.
 
 Rajkot police claimed that Lunagariya, a resident of Dhrangadhra town of Surendranagar, had died after clash with his friend Shaktisinh Zala, over sharing the booty after a robbery on Sunday night. Shaktisinh's body was also found near Lunagariya's on Aji river bank.
 
 On Sunday night, Shaktisinh (19), accused in several offences including murder of a constable, and Lunagariya, were found dead on the Aji river bank. Police had then claimed that Shaktisinh and Lunagariya had robbed an unidentified person and had a dispute over share of booty and both killed each other.
 
 “The injury mark on my son's dead body clearly indicate police torture. There were injury marks on the sole of his (Lunagariya's) feet which indicates he was beaten up in police custody," Devraj Lunagariya said in his letter to police.
 
 Police had claimed that Zala and his accomplices’ intercepted two persons riding a bike, thrashed them with iron pipes and sticks around 8pm on Sunday. However, they did not get any money from them. Meanwhile, police received a tip-off about a fight on the river bank and rushed there. 
 
 But Shaktisinh and others escaped before police arrived. Later, at around 11pm, they robbed an unidentified person of Rs 5,700. After the loot, Kadar, Parmar and Lunagariya demanded their share of money. This angered Yuvrajsinh and Shaktisinh and they started thrashing them. When police reached the spot, Lunagariya was lying unconscious but arrested Kadar, Parmar and Yuvrajsinh. Lunagariya was rushed to the hospital where he succumbed to injuries. Meanwhile, when police were searching for Shaktisinh, one passer-by informed them about a man lying dead in Aji River.
 
