KOLKATA:   were a better way of combating   than   and were possibly the answer to the multitude of   that were invading the  , said   Delivering a talk on “Combating viral diseases“ at the Presidency University Global Education Summit on Wednesday , the head of the Cleveland Clinic argued that even though several vaccines were working effectively , drugs targeting genes could eventually provide long-term cure from deadly viruses, such as HIV , hepatitis C and Herpes simplex.

 “In my opinion, anti-viral drugs are better than vaccines. They interrupt the cellular pathways through which viruses replicate more effectively .While some vaccines have a short-term effectiveness, drugs could lead to a life-long cure. Perhaps, you would need to take the medicines even after cure to prevent a relapse.But it's being proved that drugs work better,“ said Banerjee, a Presidency College alumnus, instrumental in setting up the molecular biology section at Cleveland Clinic.
 
 Referring to the DRACO group of drugs--an experimental group of anti-viral drugs being developed at MIT --Banerjee said indications were strong they could counter deadly viruses. “They have effectively halted 18 viruses in cells and four viruses in mice.There is no reason why they can't be in use soon. The re sults are encouraging,“ he said.
 
 He added the CRISPR group of drugs, which confers resistance to foreign genetic elements and provides a form of acquired immunity , were also the medicines of future. “This is a new tool for editing genes.They could be an effective answer to viruses that attack the DNA,“ said Banerjee, an authority on the genetic expres sion of viruses.
 
 But drugs and vaccines were fundamentally different, pointed out Irfan Akhtar, head of microbiology , Fortis Hospital.“While vaccines are preventive, drugs are therapeutic. The former often lose effectiveness due to antigenic variations of viruses. But drugs could be more precise, especially if they are genetic ones and target the affected cells. But they must be put through a series of experiments and it usually takes several years to reach the market from the lab. In a country like India, drugs could have a better impact than vaccines that can't possibly be reached to everyone,“ said Akhtar.
 
 The genetic drugs' precision made them more acceptable than vaccines, said Debashish Saha, consultant, AMRI Hospital,  . “They have fewer side effects, are targeted and hence, act faster. Reliance on vaccines will indeed be on decline if we have enough cell-targeted medicines,“ he said.
 
