NEW DELHI: Pakistan’s former national security adviser   reiterated his stand on Monday that the   on Mumbai was a “classic example” of cross-border terrorism as it was carried out by a Pakistanbased group. The remark spurred India to ask Pakistan to prosecute Lashkar chief Hafiz Mohammad Saeed.

 “26/11 Mumbai strikes, carried out by a terror group based in Pakistan, was a classic trans-border terrorist event,” Durrani said at a conference on combating terrorism at the   and Analyses here. Durrani was NSA when the attacks were carried out on November 26, 2008. He was sacked the next year, shortly after he became the first Pakistani official to confirm that one of the attackers, Ajmal Kasab, was a Pakistani, putting paid to Islamabad’s effort at denial.
 
 On Monday, in response to questions from reporters, Durrani said Saeed must be punished though he did not mention the LeT founder as the mastermind of the attack.
 
 The admission by Pakistan’s former national security adviser that the 26/11 attack was a “classic example” of cross-border terrorism was all the evidence Islamabad needed against Lashkar founder Hafiz Saeed, home ministry officials said.
 
 Ex-NSA Mahmud Ali Durrani’s remarks on Monday, coinciding with Pakistan’s claim that it had listed Saeed under the Anti-Terrorism Act and placed him under “house arrest”, were seen by India as validation of its consistent stand that the Lashkar chief was the main choreographer of the assault on the country’s financial capital. “Pakistan now doesn’t need bigger evidence to prosecute Hafiz Saeed, it should act immediately,” a senior home ministry official said.
 
 Ministry officials asserted that India had gathered and handed over “solid evidence” against all suspects in the 26/11 attack, including the testimony of David Coleman Headley, to Pakistan and internationally but there was no headway in the trial in Pakistan.
 
 Officials in the home ministry and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said the “least Pakistan can do now is allow Indian investigators to visit there and help in gathering evidence”.
 
 Significantly, minister of state for home Kiren Rijiju did not seem too excited by Durrani’s fresh statement attributing 26/11 to a Pakistanbased terror group. “India’s position on the Mumbai attacks is very well known. There is nothing new in this revelation,” he said.
 
 Durrani’s remarks, however, did not entirely mirror India’s position. For, contrary to India’s stand about ISI’s involvement in the Mumbai attack, the former Pakistani NSA denied any role of Pakistan’s state actors in the massacre of innocents.
 
 Talking to reporters, Durrani said, "I know (this) for definite. I have very good information that the government of Pakistan or the ISI (Pakistan's spy agency) were not involved in 26/11 (terror attack). I am 110% sure."
 
 Asked to elaborate, Durrani declined to divulge details, saying he was sacked by the Pakistani government for certain statements he had made regarding the Mumbai attack. "I made a statement which the government did not like and I got sacked," he said.
 
 A few years ago, Durrani had said that after the attacks, the Pakistani government was only making a fool of itself by not acknowledging that Kasab was a Pakistani.
 
