NAGPUR: Students of Naxal-hit Gadchiroli will get a rare chance to listen to a well-known chemical scientist from Mumbai. Ankona Datta, of Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), will deliver a lecture on ‘spy molecules’ for the undergraduate and postgraduate students of Gondwana University and Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) on Friday.

 IGNOU regional director P Sivaswaroop said this is the first time IGNOU is holding such activity for its Gadchiroli students. “Around 40 to 50 students will be motivated towards science research. They students know lots of scientific terms like DNA, molecules, etc but rarely understand their purpose. Besides encouraging them towards scientific research, the lecture intends to give them a direction and clarity about career. It is modelled on the lines of Inspire camp organized in the city by  ,” he said.
 
 The lecture is being organized by   in collaboration with Royal Society of Chemistry (London) and Gondwana University.
 
 Sivaswaroop said that molecules in our body work in harmony in order to make us function as living things. However, changes in molecular behaviour can lead to diseases. Tracking erratic molecules is therefore necessary for early disease detection. “Learning about spy molecules can help track diseases,” he said.
 
 He added that the institute is also organizing a one-day conference on ‘Perennial Indian Education System: The Past, Present and Future’ in collaboration with   and PG Department of Education, Nagpur University, on Thursday. 
 
 The event would be a pre-conference to an international conference ‘Idea of Bharat’ being organized in Delhi on February 23 to 25.
 
 Sivaswaroop said over 60 research papers have been received for the one-day conference. There would be six sub-themes including ‘teacher education’, ‘education for all’, ‘education delivery system’, and ‘character building education’.
 
 Academicians like vice chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi Antarrashtriya Hindi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Wardha, Girishwar Misra, Vice chancellor of Kavi Kulaguru Kalidas Sanskrit University Uma Vaidya, NU Pro VC Pramod Yeole and MAFSU VC AK Mishra and others are likely to attend the conference. 
 
 
