NEW DELHI: Be wary of following instructions given by a random caller claiming to be a representative from your bank or telecom service provider. Days after TOI reported that an 80-year-old woman from Greater Kailash had lost Rs 1.46 lakh at the hands of conmen, a 60-year-old   resident has lodged a complaint with the police of being duped of around Rs 1 lakh.

 The crooks managed to clone the victim’s   and then used it to receive the one-time password (OTP) while carrying out fraudulent transactions. It seems they already had the account and ATM card details of the victim and just needed the OTP, police said.
 
 The exact modus operandi will be revealed only after the crooks are arrested, cops said. An FIR has been lodged and the bank has been asked for details of transactions and the beneficiary account.
 
 Initial probe reveals that the money from victim’s account was transferred to a bank in Deoghar, Jharkhand. A police team will soon go there for investigations.
 
 In his complaint, the victim said that he received a call from an unknown number informing him that the telecom firm had exclusive offers for him and his number would be upgraded from 2G to 4G if he provided some details. The elderly person fell into the trap and followed the instructions.
 
 The caller asked the victim to send the 16-digit number inscribed on the rear of the SIM to a number. Soon after he messaged the number, five transactions of Rs 94,460 were carried out from his account.
 
 The victim then approached the police for help and gave them his bank statement. He also complained to the bank. On February 5, TOI had reported a similar fraud in which the conmen had cloned an east Delhi businessman’s SIM card and duped him of Rs 10 lakh. The gang first offered him a credit card for free and then kept calling him repeatedly. As the victim struggled to get rid of the unwanted calls, he was contacted by some people claiming to be security officers of his telecom service provider. 
 
 They asked him to run a software on his phone after which it stopped working for a few days. During this period, his existing credit cards were used by the fraudsters to make online purchases.
 
 
