CHENNAI: Hundreds of tickets on popular routes like Chennai-Trichy, Chennai-Madurai and Coimbatore-Bengaluru are going down the drain as   is cancelling summer special trains. The official reason given is lack of patronage, but senior railway officials admit that these specials are not properly planned and are being announced as per the whims and fancies of officials.

 This comes at a time when Southern Railway has lost 7.5 crore passengers in the last five years. Experts have pointed out that poor execution in running special trains is one reason for this. “The zonal railway has to report to the   on the number of specials run.Not much thought goes into planning each special to benefit as large a passenger segement as possible,“ the official said.
 
 Across divisions, at least six trains have been cancelled in the last few weeks. These are Chennai-Trichy , Trichy-Bengaluru, Coimbatore-Bengaluru, Coimbatore-Rameswaram and   (in both directions).
 
 More than 50 services of these trains have been cancelled due to poor patronage. Summer specials between   and ChennaiErnakulam are facing only poor-to-decent patronage, availability statuses show. This is even as regular trains on all these routes have high waiting lists.
 
 In January, a Chennai-Tiruchirapalli special was called off. In December, a Chennai-Tiruvannamalai-Chennai special was cancelled. In November, Erode-Chennai day time special was cancelled as patronage was only 20%. In August, a special train on the Chennai-Madurai and   routes was cancelled.
 
 Sources say spare rakes are bundled together to run specials without a proper study of demand-supply data, taking into account the bus services.“Earlier, officials were sent on field visits to analyse the number of bus services before announcing specials. It is no longer followed,“ an official said.
 
 A Giri, vice-president of Thanjavur District Rail Users Association, said passengers have not warmed up to dynamic pricing in trains, which makes them costlier than omnibuses.
 
