BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh government will activate and strengthen police   in districts bordering Rajasthan and   to curb access to the criminals and drug-paddlers from these neighbouring states.

 The government will also transfer police officials who have completed five-year tenure in these areas, said state home minister Bhupendra Singh on Monday. He stated this while replying to a query from Yashpal Singh Sisodia, BJP   from Mandsaur, who moved a call attention motion, demanding control on extortion, abduction and attack on opium traders in the district. “Mandsaur, being the opium growing district of the country, has access to criminals from neighbouring states like Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Criminals from these states extort money from opium traders and are at times involved in kidnapping and attack too. I urge the government to take immediate action to curb this menace,” Sisodia told the House.
 
 Admitting criminal activities from across the border, the home minister said it was not true that such activities are rampant. A few incidents were reported from Mandsaur district where traders were attacked, but the number of such incidents is less than the previous year, he said. “Police have taken strict action against criminals. We would now activate and strengthen cyber cell in bordering districts. A DGP-level meeting will also be convened with neighbouring states to control criminal activities on the border. Police will step up vigil in these areas,” Singh assured the House.
 
 When senior MLA and former minister Kailash Chawla asked about the role of police officials who have been posted in the bordering districts for more than five years, Singh said the government will transfer all such officers. He, however, did not clarify despite Congress MLA Arif Aqeel asking whether the decision would be effective in the entire state. “Officials completing five years or more will be transferred from these areas and I have asked the officials to verify and take decisions at the earliest possible,” said Singh.
 
