MUMBAI: A 23-year-old   who had left her phone behind in an   last month had never imagined that her   account would be misused by a   to demand money from her contacts. 

 The   are investigating her complaint following a   sent to   by her friend. Meanwhile, the unidentified conman is using her name and personal photographs to con her family and friends.
 
 On June 20, Sonia Vaz (name changed on request), an executive with an events company, boarded an autorickshaw from Mulund railway station and got off near St Pius school around 9.10pm. On reaching home, she realized that she had forgotten her phone in the autorickshaw and dialled her number. The handset kept ringing. Vaz hoped the finder would return the handset, so she did not deactivate the SIM card.
 
 A few days later, Vaz’s friends and relatives started enquiring why she was sending them WhatsApp messages asking for Rs 20,000. Vaz was taken aback and told them she had lost her phone. “Nearly 50 people on my contact list inquired with me, following which I rushed to get my SIM card blocked,” she told TOI. “But the conman could still access my WhatsApp account on wi-fi. It was only after I got another handset and a new SIM and reinstalled WhatsApp did he lose access to it,” she added.
 
 But the conman was one step ahead. He transferred Vaz’s personal photographs and her contact list to his handset and continued demanding money from her friends and relatives posing as her. “He put my photo as the display picture on his WhatsApp account. He would tell people that he was Sonia Vaz and had just acquired a new phone number and would demand Rs 20,000 from each contact,” Vaz said, adding that she can’t be sure if any of them have already parted with money.
 
 The Mulund police initially did not take her complaint seriously as they assumed it was a routine case of lost cellphone. But on July 2, they finally lodged an FIR under the Information Technology Act when the conman sent two bank account numbers and a PayTM number to accept payments from Vaz’s contacts. 
 
 One of the bank accounts was operated from Goa and was a salary account of a staffer with a security and industrial services firm. Most withdrawals were being made from Virar. The other account was being operated from Uttar Pradesh.
 
 The last location of Vaz’s stolen cellphone, through Android tracking, showed Gaushala Road in Mulund. 
 
 
