The first day of Tatva, the annual cultural festival of the  , saw   visiting his alma mater as the judge for Mr and Miss   competition. Taking to stage, Maniesh interacted with his juniors, danced for a while, and said, "Music band kar do, music toh roz hi sunte ho, aaj mujhe live sun lo."

  Addressing the crowd, Maniesh, who graduated in Tourism Management from the college, said, "I have been to many colleges and universities, but this was the first time when I was nervous coming to a college. Nervous toh hota hi, iss college ka jo hoon. But it feels good to be back. I’m not leaving until I talk to you all. If you have any questions, you can ask me."
 
  
  Selfie with the students: Maniesh takes a selfie with the college crowd at his alma mater, the College of Vocational Studies (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 On being asked to have a seat right next to the principal of the college, Indeerjeet Dagar, Maniesh quipped, "Oh ho, aaj toh principal sir bhi badi tameez se bitha rahe hain! Aaj toh main kuch bhi kar loon, college se nikaal thodi denge." When a student asked him if he attended classes regularly, he replied, "Paagalon wali baatein kar rahe ho! Main classes attend karunga?" He recalled, "I was fined Rs 2,000 for not attending classes in my first year, and my brother Vivek was asked to come down to the college to pay the fine. I told him, Rs6,000 de de, main baaki do saal bhi attend nahi karunga."
 
  
  Mere paas bhi hai: Maniesh shows off his muscles, while a student does push-ups (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  Appreciating Maniesh's work in the entertainment industry, the principal said, "Whenever I see  , I proudly tell my family members that he is our ex-student. It feels proud to see him doing such good work in the field of entertainment." In response to the principal, Maniesh said, "Inhone Jhalak ke baare mein bol kar khud panga le lia hai. Now, sir will dance with me." While Maniesh and the principal danced to the tunes of Humma Humma, the students and the teachers cheered for them. 
 
  
  Right Moves: Maniesh dances with the students on 'Malhari'
 
 
 
 Maniesh also requested the boys of the college that they should respect women, and the girls shouldn’t be asked to dress in a certain way, and instead the need is for the boys to change their mentality. "Girls, you should wear whatever you want to, but boys, you have to understand this. Humein apni soch badalni padegi. Mujhe kabhi yeh sunne ko na mile ki iss college ke ladkon ne kisi ladki ko chheda hai." When asked by a student if he doesn’t flirt, Maniesh replied with a wicked smile, "I flirt with only those who want me to flirt with them." Praising one of the students who came up on stage to do push-ups with him, Maniesh said, "Badhiya body hai teri. Sahi kaam mein istemaal kariyo, koi ladki ko chhede, toh ek do laga diyo."
 
  
  Dare to dance: The actor shakes a leg with the principal (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
