In the latest episode of  ,   is seen standing on the road when she sees a group of people rushing to the other side.   comes to know that there is a stadium nearby and famous cricketer Karan Luthra has won the match. Srishti takes her sister also there and the two see Karan taking off his jacket and throwing it at his fans. Preeta gets annoyed at seeing this and walks away.
 
  As the two sisters are walking on the road, Preeta is hit by a car and the driver apologises and says that he can't be late for his boss and has to get there in time. Preeta sits in his car as she is hurt and faints. Karan takes the car from the driver and two girls sit with him in the car fighting with each other to be his girlfriend. He says that both of them can date him together. Just then Preeta regains her consciousness and covers hr face on seeing the two girls flirting with Karan. He asks her for her identity and tells her to leave. Preeta explains how she was hit by his car and gets out. Srishti comes running to her and is excited about all that happened.
  
  Later, the two sisters walk towards a tea stall and ask the man about a nominal hotel nearby. He explains them the way and they start walking towards the hotel. Srishti is tired half way and gives up. They then see a man stalking them, and Srishti shoos him away. Then they see few drunk men approaching them, when a car comes by and stops in front of them.
  
  
 
  
  Abhi Mehra is sitting in the car and asks them where they want to go. When they tell him that they are looking for a hotel, he asks them to sit in his car. Srishti is very excited and as she is a big fan of Abhi and asks him to sing a song for her.
  
  When Abhi investigates about what they would do in Mumbai, Preeta says that they will spend a night in a hotel and then they would start looking out for a rental accommodation. Abhi remembers about Sarla wanting to give Pragya's room on rent to someone. He takes Preeta and Srsihti to Sarla's house.
  
  Keep watching this space for more updates on Kundali Bhagya.
