KOLKATA: A combination of an age-old practice among people to poke their noses in neighbour’s affairs and new-age technology led cops to Chinmayee Bej within eight hours after she allegedly lifted a   from the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. As soon as they spotted the woman in a green saree carrying the baby, neighbours in Georgebagan, Bagmari, got suspicious. This was well before Chinmayee’s image captured by CCTV cameras at the hospital and a Metro station started being telecast by television news channels.

 “I spotted Chinmayee with the baby around 2.30pm on Tuesday and asked whose child it is. She said that the baby was delivered by her on that day itself and walked away towards her home,” said  , who lives four houses away from Chinmayee’s.
 
 Just like most inquisitive neighbours in slums, Rekha accompanied another woman Soma Jana to Chinmayee’s house a little later. “We found the baby crying. Chinmayee was desperately trying to breastfeed him. She couldn’t do so and made the baby drink lukewarm water. We advised her to call a doctor and her husband left to get one from the locality,” Soma said. “We suspected that something was wrong as no hospital lets a patient leave just after surgery. The boy didn’t seem to have been born on Tuesday either,” Rekha added. The doctor arrived a while later, checked the woman and the baby and left. By then the number of neighbours outside the Bej resident had gone up. Rekha and Soma were joined by Tumpa Das and Tina Sadhukhan. The four followed the doctor to his residence.
 
 “The women came up to me and asked about Chinmayee . I told them that she complained of stomach cramps. Chinmayee had told me that the baby was born on Tuesday morning while she was travelling by taxi. She also claimed that she went to the B C   and got the umbilical cord detached before returning home. Her explanation seemed vague to me and I left prescribing a medicine for stomach pain,” said Gour Dey, the doctor.
 
 The four then went to B C Roy hospital nearly three km away and checked the register. They realised that Chinmayee had never visited the hospital. Moreover, the hospital had no provision to handle pregnancy-related matters, they came to know. By then, news of the Naskars’ missing child had spread in the neighbourhood. 
 
 The four women returned to Georgebagan and accosted Chinmayee . This time her husband and mother-in-law turned them out. They then contacted Saraswati Naskar’s father-in-law. By then, councillor Amal Chakraborty had watched news and identified the woman in green saree. He informed police immediately. “The woman had come to me just a week ago to enroll herself in Janani Suraksha scheme. I identified her from her photograph and went to her house. Later, we found the green saree and cloth in which the baby was wrapped,” he said. Police thanked good co-ordination between all agencies, including Metro. “It was due to this co-ordination and help of media that maximum number of people got the information within the shortest period of time,” said  , police commissioner. 
 
 
