Nagpur: With a view to offer unique identification number (UIN) to its over four lakh students, Nagpur University would be tying up with   (NSDL) and   (CDSL).

 Since last couple of days, both apex depositories incorporated with SEBI were showing presentations to the NU top brass, including vice chancellor SP Kane, pro-VC   and others.
 
 On Wednesday, there will be a meeting of controller of examinations (COE) from various state universities with both companies regarding UIN. “Though both are competitors, we were contemplating to handover contracts to both companies. It would be up to the students to select any one as per the convenience,” Yeole told TOI.
 
 TOI, in its October 26 edition, published a detailed report on NU’s plans to provide UIN to students which would act just like Aadhaar, where the Indian or foreign universities or even the recruiters, can access entire scorecard of students, if they’re taking admissions there or had applied for the job. 
 
 The students’ data could be accessed through any part of the globe, however, the interested stakeholders need to take prior permission from the NU administration and also have to shell out some money.
 
 “We’ve provided them the data of latest convocation which they are using on pilot basis. They were demanding data in MS Excel format. Both depositories would offer payment gateways to the students through UIN which would be directly linked with Aadhaar. The formalities regarding charges to both depositories would be finalized after the central government approves the rates,” the pro-VC said.
 
 He added that the students could access all important documents issued by the university like their mark-sheets along with certificates of degrees, eligibility and migration among others. “Other universities in Indian and abroad and even the companies, could also get access, but only after students’ consent. They of course have to pay something to NU. In first phase, we plan to upload data of students from 2015.”
 
 Yeole also listed out some problems in implementing the ambitious project stating that it would be difficult to upload degree formats which were in various languages and fonts. Even mark-sheets didn’t have same pattern.
 
 UIN’s concept was first mooted by the VC after a student almost lost his job when his company asked NU for his credentials and latter denied his existence. He then constituted a panel under Yeole to frame the modalities.
 
 Through UIN, the companies or universities could verify marks obtained by the students of all three/four/five years along with their performance in a particular subject and even number of attempts taken to clear the papers. It will also include details of those caught while indulging in the malpractices or using unfair means.
 
