NEW DELHI: Parts of Delhi experienced light showers on Thursday evening as an active western disturbance continued to impact the western Himalayan region and northwest India. The   recorded 0.3 mm rain till 8.30am and 2.4 mm till 5.30pm. The regional weather forecast centre has predicted intensification of rain and parts of the city can expect as much as 64 mm rain on Friday.

 The city recorded normal maximum and   on Thursday with the highest at 28.4 degrees Celsius and lowest at 14.6 degrees Celsius. Between 8.30am and 5.30pm, Palam recorded the highest amount of rain at 9.6 mm followed by Jafarpur with 4 mm, Lodhi Road with 3.8 mm and Ridge with 1.8 mm.
 
 The IMD said that a WD, “as an upper air cyclonic circulation is persisting over Jammu and Kashmir, and neighbourhood”. There is another WD placed over southwest Afghanistan and adjoining Pakistan. “Under the influence of these two systems, widespread rain and snowfall is very likely over the western Himalayan region and scattered to widespread rain and thundershowers very likely over adjoining northern plains during the next three days,” said IMD.
 
 RWFC said Delhi was likely to see a partly cloudy sky becoming generally cloudy after 24 hours and a mainly clear sky after the next 48 hours. There is a possibility of thunderstorm and rain till Friday when moderate rain is expected. Saturday will probably see light rain and thunderstorms. 
 
 The IMD website indicated that while the weather is expected to improve Sunday onwards, the minimum temperatures are expected to see a rise only by the middle of next week till when they can even drop to 10 degrees Celsius.
 
 Friday will have a generally cloudy sky with moderate rain very likely to occur toward the afternoon or evening. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 26 degrees Celsius and 14 degrees Celsius respectively. Another WD is likely to affect the western Himalayan region from March 15 and the plains of northwest India from March 16 onwards.
 
