Tension had been building up on the university campus ever since the two students' unions -ABVP and AISA -locked horns over an invite to JNU students Umar Khalid and   to attend a seminar at Ramjas College. The university campus was charged with tension on Wednesday morning, even as ABVP members shouted slogans and started gathering in huge numbers. Soon, it was clear that they were planning to foment trouble.

 A huge police force was standing on guard, but it remained inactive. They watched passively even as outsiders streamed into the campus and joined the agitation. It escalated the tension and the stage now seemed set for a face-off between the student factions. Surprisingly, the cops still made no effort to disperse the crowd. It was as if they were waiting for a clash to break out.
 
 Within the next half-an-hour, the area was cordoned off. Suddenly, all hell broke loose as the ABVP supporters launched an attack on the AISA students, leading to a mayhem. A violent clash ensued and I could see the students mercilessly hitting out at their rival group members. Even though taken aback by the sudden ABVP assault, AISA members, too, retaliated. But they seemed to have been outnumbered. Around ten-twelve of them hit back and the situation was now going out of control.
 
 The police now made a few token moves, which were clearly not enough. They moved at a gingerly pace and it was now clear that they were hand-in-glove with the ABVP and the outsiders.
 
 All this while, I had been standing on a pavement opposite to the college gate. Suddenly , a few men attacked me from behind with a muffler and tried to throttle me. I almost choked and felt dizzy. After a few horrifying seconds they let me go, but not before I had been punched and kicked. I tripped and fell on the road.
 
  has a long history of such clashes. What happened at Ramjas College was uncalled for and the result of a needless provocation by the ABVP . The invite to Khalid and Shehla Rashid can never be labelled anti-national. They were asked to attend a seminar on the culture of protest which is an academic subject.
 
 But one could see that some used the issue to create a sense of terror. It was not a spur of the moment clash, but a well-planned and orchestrated violence. This has been nurtured and patronized for the past two-three years. Once inside the university campus, it is as if you feel you are in a fortress. The campus is fast losing its academic ambience.
 
 Some of my students saved my life on Wednesday. I was rushed to a hospital with swelling and bruises all over my body. I needed a few papers to lodge a police complaint, which I didn't have on Wednesday. So, I had to wait till Thursday to lodge it.
 
 
 
 
