BENGALURU: City development minister   on Tuesday said the government, through  , is issuing notices to all property owners who are using more than 20% of their properties for commercial use in an area which has approach roads measuring 40ft or less.

 Responding to a question on commer cial estab lishments in residential areas creat i n g h avo c for resi dents, raised by N A Haris (Cong ress) at the legislative assembly, George said the BBMP has been directed to issue these notices to the violators.“Those violating the law will be penalized,“ he said.
 
 “In areas which have over 40ft roads, we will allow 20% space for commercial operations,“ George said, not specifying the upper limit of the approach road.
 
 The Bengaluru minister said the government is committed to maintaining stringent zoning regulations under the new comprehensive development plan (CDP) prepared by the   in future.
 
 In a response to BJP MLA C T Ravi, who questioned whether BBMP properties have been sold to private parties, George said no property has been sold to any person and that the government is committed to getting all mortgaged properties released from financial institutions.
 
 In his reply, George said the BBMP has mortgaged 11 properties, including Mayo Hall, BBMP head office and its markets to Hudco, for a loan of Rs 1,439 crore. For 2016-17 alone, the   is paying interest of Rs 164.16 crore. MOBILE TOWER REGULATION The Karnataka government will soon frame rules to regulate mobile towers in urban areas.“We will soon frame rules to regulate old and new mobile towers set up without prior sanction, to ensure that it does not cause any harmful effect on people living in neighbouring areas,“ municipal administration minister   told the legislative assembly on Tuesday .
 
 Replying to a calling attention notice by N A Haris (Congress), the minister said draft rules were ready and they have invited suggestions and objections. “Once completed, we'll place it before the state cabinet,“ he added.
 
 Earlier, Haris said people in residential areas are being exposed to harmful radiation which is reportedly causing cancer, memory loss and even lower sperm count.
 
 “There has been a tremendous increase in setting up of mobile phone towers and signal-boosters in residential areas because of increase in mobile phones and internet netration,“ he added.
 
