DEHRADUN: A woman functionary of Uttarakhand BJP took to Facebook to vent ire against the party’s “misplaced priorities”, after a furore was recently created over controversial posts from an allegedly fake twitter account of former chief minister and current Lok Sabha MP from Pauri Garhwal Major General (retd) B C Khanduri’s account. She also said that 2019, and even 2022, may be a lost battle for the saffron party in the state when issues such as migration and unemployment were being ignored by the government.   In her Facebook post, on Sunday, Shobhna Rawat Swami also raised the issue of a senior IPS officer’s wife “shaking up the Uttarakhand Technical University while the government and administration were watching meekly”.    The incident comes immediately after Ritu Khanduri Bhushan, daughter of B C Khanduri, termed the posting of tweets a “big conspiracy”. A case was subsequently lodged under section 420 (cheating), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) and section 65 of Information Technology Act.    The tweets, which were posted on Saturday, spoke about how “politics today had become simply like a typical Hindi potboiler” and expressed “pain and anguish that despite serving the country in the Army and through politics, my (Khanduri’s) dreams for the state remained unfulfilled.”    Another tweet which was construed by many as an attack on the present dispensation within the BJP read, “Whether the party gives me respect or not, I am not worried. I have received enough love from the people.” The tweets were later deleted and the account, too, was deleted from the social networking site by the anonymous user.    BJP state president Ajay Bhatt said, “I have been informed about the social media posts by our mahila morcha member Swami. The party has taken a note of this and she will be issued a notice soon.”    Swami said, “These were my personal opinions. The points I have made about the IPS officer’s wife and the misplaced priorities of the party must be noted by higher authorities.”