PUNE:  , a practising lawyer, took a break from work to reach out to to various societies and urge people to vote. 

 Uttarwar, who floated the Pledge to Vote campaign, and his group of lawyers spend the first half of the day in court, and before hitting the streets to spread awareness. 
 
 "In a little over a month, we have addressed 162 societies. Our message to them is, 'Come out and vote'," Uttarwar said on the initiative. 
 
 The state election commission is keen on registering at least a 70% turnout this time around, and many citizens' groups have been doing their bit to spread awareness. 
 
 Apart from urging citizens to go out and vote, Uttarwar says they also arrange interactions with candidates and hold discussions so that the voter is aware of the candidate's profile and the process of voting. The group plans to as many societies as possible till the voting day, February 21. 
 
 The   (NSCC) too has been reaching out to various housing societies in this endeavour. 
 
 "We are asking people to cast four votes as people are still unclear about the voting process. This new system is not being explained clearly, and is distancing citizens from governance," said Satsh Khit, an NSCC member. 
 
 The organization has reached out to nearly all the mohalla committees, Khot said, adding that citizens will not be able to vote for the right candidate unless they have a clear explanation about the process. 
 
 Kalyaninagar's Qaneez Sukhrani who happens to be a member of the Vimannagar Citizens' Forum, has come out with a pamphlet to spread the message. "There is no point in complaining later," Sukhani said, adding: "This is the time for one to exercise one's right to select the right candidate."
 
 Meanwhile, Parivartan's Indranil Sadalge has a tie-up with the  , and has sent letters to 16 colleges in the city urging all youngsters to come out and vote. "Besides these letters and meetings with the college students, the group also holds banners and raises slogans at various chowks in the city," said Sadalge, who started this movement in 2008.
 
 The Mumbai-based pan-India VCAN (V Citizens Action Network) published on YouTube a video of a talk with the commission members. They are reaching out to societies in Mumbai and its suburbs.
 
 Citizens for their part feel not enough is being done by the election machinery in this regard. "We are just a week away and nobody has approached us to check the voters' list and confirm our names, or even give us the voter slip" said N M Khan, a Kondhwa resident.
 
