NAGPUR: After switching to online registration for doctorate of philosophy (PhD) candidates as part of its ongoing reforms, the   (NU) is now in the process of developing a mechanism to check plagiarism at the time of thesis submission.

 Last year in November, NU had introduced tougher norms by asking PhD aspirants to register online. However, absence of PhD thesis from NU’s website is surprising because it has been accepting soft copies (compact disc) since 2009 as per UGC norms.
 
 On Monday, pro-vice chancellor   told TOI that NU couldn’t upload PhD thesis online because it doesn’t have a plagiarism policy. “A committee led by me held several meetings to discuss the modalities. A decision would be taken within a month. We are considering if there could be a permissible limit in duplication of content.” 
 
 Sources said the university has approached an agency, which has been working with well-known journals, to develop an  .
 
 Yeole added that thesis wouldn’t be accepted unless the researchers submit a certificate generated by the software. “A committee would be formed to decide if a research work could be accepted after verifying the percentage of plagiarism,” he said. 
 
 Commenting on the university’s move, associate professor and head of English department at Panjabrao Deshmukh Arts/Commerce College Farzana Ali said, “It is dream that may come true someday. On Internet we find so many research works of other universities. Similarly, it will be a valuable source for NU students. But we don’t know how it will work out.”
 
 Some academicians sounded unhappy with the move to pass the work through an anti-plagiarism software. A principal of physical education institute said, “It is a good move but what about research in sports? There are limited books and resources on sports in India. Foreign norms are different and can’t be applied to Indian conditions. There is dearth of literature to review on sports in India. Soccer, hockey and several other sports have a history. What if the software counts this history as lifted work.”
 
 Another principal said, “A large number of scholars are incompetent. The system over the years was kept lax for such people to pass through the loopholes. But, if the guides and NU decides not to promote mediocrity, then there wouldn’t be a need for any software. Purchasing a software would cost lakhs of rupees. Besides, it needs to be updated in some cases every day. There is a fee for this. How is the university going to raise this money,” he asked.
 
