NEW DELHI: The Civic Centre’s A Block — which houses offices of both north and south corporations — had some unusual visitors on Monday when two monkeys sneaked into the building. For the next hour or so, pandemonium prevailed, giving councillors and officials a first-hand experience of a menace that city residents have been crying hoarse about.

 The   roamed around freely on different floors of the building that has offices of mayors and deputy mayors of both civic bodies. Fortunately, no one was bitten or hurt in trying to evade them.
 
 Mukesh Kumar Goel, a Congress councillor in north  , said: “I came out of my office after hearing some strange sound, only to find a   staring at me.” As another person tried to click his photograph, it tried to attack him. “Amid the chaos, another monkey tried to enter my office. I managed to close the door just in time,” said Goel. 
 
 Delhiites constant struggle with the simians is well documented. In 2007, the then deputy mayor, S S Bajwa, had died a day after being attacked by monkey. Trying to fend it off, Bajwa had fallen from the terrace of his house and sustained grievous injuries.
 
 The job to tackle the menace rests with the corporations. The latest incident only demonstrated how the civic bodies have failed to find a solution to the problem. A civic employee said nobody knew when the two monkeys actually entered the building. While Goel said that they sneaked through the main entrance and used the   to go to first floor, north corporation mayor Preeti Agrawal claimed that the duo used a third-floor window whose glass was broken.
 
 There were chaotic scenes once staffers spotted the uninvited guests. While some tried to click photos, others scurried for cover. Unable to find an easy exit, the monkeys became aggressive. Some employees claimed that the corporations’ monkey catchers were clueless about how to deal with the problem. Finally, armed with canes, it were the security guards who chased them away. Goel said: “The incident has exposed the inefficiency of the veterinary department, which is supposed to control strays in the capital.”
 
 
