THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister  , while admitting serious lapse on the part of police in dealing with   activists’moral policing at the   in Kochi, told the assembly on Thursday that Kaapa (Kerala Anti-social Activities Prevention Act) will be invoked against those indulging in   ‘even if they are part of any political organization’.

 “Such goondas will not be allowed to enjoy the relaxation declared by the government to prevent the misuse of Kaapa on political workers. What happened at Marine Drive on Wednesday is most insulting to Kerala, and action has been initiated against policemen who stood mere spectators to the attack, instead of using lathis against the attackers,” he said, while responding to an adjournment motion by Ernakulam MLA Hibi Eden.
 
 Promising that moral policing in any form will not be allowed in the state, Vijayan said the government has initiated various measures, including strengthened police patrolling and pink police beat against moral policing besides public awareness programmes and those to empower women and student police cadets.
 
 “The government will act strictly against individuals and organizations indulging in moral policing and also against police officers if they show any laxity in taking strong measures. The police should use their lathis against such miscreants,” he reiterated, pointing out the suspension of   sub-inspector Vijayasankar and transfer of policemen who were on duty to the district AR camp.
 
 Opting for a theoretical discourse on the reasons behind ‘the social evil’ to deny further discussion on the topic in the assembly, the chief minister said it was a part of a perverted mind-set that existed in a male-dominated society. “These people are being led by a primitive idea that women have no rights, power or freedom enjoyed by their male counterparts, which led to oppression of women in this society,” he added.
 
 “The communal forces have a great role in promoting this oppression of women and they are behind moral policing. Whenever a man and a woman sit together over a cup of coffee or engage in a conversation, these communal forces consider it as an illicit affair. They are trying to push back women into the dark era of the 18th century, from which they were emancipated by renaissance leaders, including V T Bhattathirippadu, Premji, EMS and MRB, he said, adding that the government will not allow the ‘communally inspired moral policing’ in the state.
 
