COIMBATORE: They have sold ‘cobots’ ( ) that make egg dosas at a restaurant in Singapore and ones that help in producing   for a company based in Madurai. Universal Robots, which manufactures  , is witnessing good demand for its robots from firms engaged in manufacturing.

 The company, which has done about 250 installations in the country so far, expects to sell 200 robots during the current calendar year alone. It had sold nearly 75 robots in 2016. “The business can increase dramatically. We would be able to double our sales every year for the next 4-5 years,” said Pradeep David, country head, India and Sri Lanka, Universal Robots.
 
 Incidentally, the Denmark-based company said it has doubled sales globally every year in the last seven years. It expects to sell 10000 robots globally in 2017. The company, which counts Bajaj Auto, TVS and Wistron that makes Apple iPhones, as its customers, insists that its machines do not take away jobs.
 
 ‘Cobots’, which have been used by a neurosurgeon, physiotherapist, celebrity chef and even a bartender, instead bring more jobs as improvement in quality and productivity results in an uptick in orders, senior company officials said. 
 
 The chief focus of Universal Robots now is on SMEs (small and medium enterprises). “The cost of ‘Cobots’ is quite low. SMEs can afford it,” David said. While the average price of traditional industrial robots is $22,000-$37,000 per unit, ‘Cobots’ cost only $15,000-$30,000, he said. The payback time is also shorter for ‘Cobots’— 24-48 months — compared to 36-50 months for industrial robots.
 
 While big companies and SMEs account for 70% and 30% of sales respectively now, David said that the ratio would reverse in the next 2-3 years. A pump manufacturing company in Coimbatore, truck parts maker in Jharkhand and defence parts producer in Gujarat are among the SMEs that Universal Robots has signed up with for its ‘Cobots’ in recent months. “Robots are ideal for repetitive, time consuming and tiring jobs,” he stated.
 
 Universal Robots, which stood 25th in the ‘50 Smartest Companies 2015’ global rankings done by MIT Technology Review, has carried out nearly 60% of its installations in and around Pune, the highest in the country. TThe maximum demand comes from automotive, FMCG (fast moving consumer goods) and electronics manufacturers, David said.
 
 
