When   studying in Std XI (science) will write their  , it will be based on a national framework laid down by Council of Boards of School Education in India (COBSE).

 The question paper pattern for physics, chemistry , biology and mathematics has been changed so that students fare better in entrance exams like National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test ( ) and   (JEE). But there will not be any change in curricula.
 
 If the level of questions is considered, around 20% will come under `difficult' category in all four subjects, and around 50% will be in `average' category .
 
 The question papers give weightage to objectives with about 30% testing a student's knowledge about the subject, about 40% testing the student's understanding of the subject and the remaining testing the students' skill and ability to apply the concepts to solve questions.
 
 “The question paper format has been changed so that our students perform well in national entrance tests. The question paper will be based on the CBSE pattern,“ Gangadhar Mhamane, chairman, Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, said in Pune on Monday .
 
 The difficulty level of questions may go up, he added.“We give many options for students, like answer three out of five questions. Here, options will be less, which will automatically increase the difficulty level. More than difficulty level, it is the thoroughness of preparation that will be required of students so that they are prepa red like central board stu dents for national level ex ams like NEET and JEE,“ Mhamane said.
 
 After the board of studie received the framework of questions for   from COBSE, a detailed report on how that framework can be adapted for HSC syllabus and how each topic can be given weightage was submitted to the state education board.
 
 “This report, after being scrutinized by the exper committee within the state board, was sent to the govern ment for approval. The re port was approved by the ministry this month,“ the circular from the board said.
 
