Cuttack: Five days, three matches. “I don’t think anywhere in the world one would find such a hectic schedule for a premier tournament,” Mohun Bagan coach Sanjoy Sen had said at the pre-tournament press conference for the  , and in a span not enough even for Bahubali 2 to reach another box-office milestone, the teams find the final round of group matches knocking at the door.

 It is the Group A teams who will take the field on Thursday to decide who takes the top two spots on the table. With Aizawl FC already having booked their place in the semifinals with six points from their two matches, it will be left to East Bengal and   to fight it out in their respective games for the second semifinal berth on offer from the group.  , who have lost both their ties so far, are already out of contention.
 
 While East Bengal, who have four points in their kitty, can clinch the spot with just a draw against Aizawl at Barabati Stadium here on Thursday, things are a little tricky for Derrick Pereira’s boys. Churchill drew against East Bengal and lost to Aizawl which has left them with just one point. While they will have to go for victory against Chennai City in the early kickoff, the three points may not be enough for a place in the knockout stage. They will also have to hope that the Kolkata giants lose to Aizawl.
 
 Well, even that may not suffice for the Goa club, as they have scored just two goals so far and East Bengal have scored three. So the margin of victory against Chennai will also play a crucial role.
 
 But Pereira’s boys will not find it easy. Newcomers Chennai have made teams work for their points. The V Soundararajan-coached side will use the defensive skills of youngsters like the impressive Abhishek Das and the attacking urge of Soosai Raj and Nandhakumar to end their campaign on an optimistic note.
 
 So Churchill strikers Ansumana Kromah and Brandon Fernandes will have to have to produce something special, with the creative skills of Seriton Fernandes and Chesterpaul Lungdoh.
 
 
