Margao: A taxi driver by profession, 54-year old Francis Xavier Pereira, was a familiar figure in the town, popularly known among the locals as just “Boy.” 

 Those acquainted to him, describe Pereira as warm and genial person, courteous and well-mannered. So, when the news about his arrest spread across the town early Saturday morning, it was first met with shock and disbelief. 
 
 However, his friends and associates also point out to the bouts of “eccentricity” he often displayed.
 
  His family sources said that Pereira studied upto class XII and later did a course in ITI, and that he was also a sought-after electrician. Pereira, who is unmarried, is a resident of Dabamal, Curchorem, and stays in his modest house with his brothers and sisters. 
 
 One of his brothers said the family had no knowledge about his involvement in the   cases until he was arrested. 
 
 Significantly, his house is located hardly a few metres behind the Guardian Angel cemetery which was desecrated less than a week ago. 
 
 “He is an educated person. He would write a lot of petitions to various authorities over various issues. He was a keen reader of newspapers and maintained cuttings of newspaper articles in his diary,” DGP Muktesh Chander said. 
 
 Police sources described Pereira as “a radical ideologue” who was “driven by a certain personal ideology that led him to commit such hate crimes”. 
 
 It was one of those moments that led him to shoot at a person with a rifle, a criminal case in which he was convicted in 2000 that landed him behind bars for three years. Since his release from jail in 2003, police believe, Pereira has desecrated at least 150 crosses, statues and tulsi vrandavans across Goa, driven primarily by his prejudiced ideology. 
 
 Police sources said Pereira has admitted that he would carry out all acts of desecration alone, as he believed that having an accomplice meant risking getting caught by police. 
 
 Though a Roman Catholic, he didn’t practice any particular faith and hated all religions. He also had a deep sense of hatred towards politicians.
 
 “Actually, he is a very kind-hearted person. But when it came to matters of religion and politics, his blood would literally boil and he would then act in a weird, somewhat eccentric manner,” one of Pereira’s close acquaintance said.
 
 
