After city college St Joseph’s College (Autonomous) dismissed one of its associate professors, 47-year-old   (Mumbai-born, Cambridge-educated scholar) from the English department on Thursday citing that students were getting ‘disturbed’ by some of the professor’s personal opinions, the professor, who is a gay rights activist and is openly gay, posted a statement on his social media page. Going into the details of the ‘Talibanisation of student lives’ inside the campus, his personal opinions, the need for democratic education in institutions and more, some parts of his post read, “When a teacher asks students to think, to think critically...to think about the implications of this Talibanisation of student lives on the gendered futures of the society we live in, to not be intimidated by threats of being asked to take a Transfer Certificate (TC) and leave if they don’t like things here, they are fired as their opinions are apparently ‘disturbing’ the students (sic).”
Ashley’s five-month contract, which started in late November, states that while he can be fired without any reason, but not without a month’s prior notice, no such notice was handed to him. So, are there legal implications? “Of course there are legal implications, and I will take that path not necessarily for monetary gains, but only because it affects the rights of students to a democratic education and the right of teachers to have a personal opinion. So far, they haven’t even specified exactly which of my personal opinions that has, as the Principal put it, ‘very much disturbed’ the students.”
 Ashley does believe that apart from encouraging students to not taking the practises of the college lying down, his   and his opinions on it are also reasons that he has gotten the sack, much like actor Manoj Bajpai’s character Prof. Dr   in the film 
 . “To give you an idea how homophobic the educational group is, before this job, I had gotten a job offer at St Joseph’s College of Commerce (part of the same group of institutions), only for it to be rescinded because a faculty had shown the principal an article that stated that I was gay.” While SJCC authorities did not confirm if Ashley had applied for a job, they stated that no one by that name was invited for an interview.
 When the news of Ashley’s sacking first broke out, the college stated that Ashley had been terminated based on ‘complaints lodged by disturbed students’ and that his sacking had ‘nothing to do with his sexual orientation.’ While they still maintain the same, they have added that Ashley did not conform to the Bangalore Jesuit Society’s Service rules, according to Prof. Kiran Jeevan, PRO of the institution.
 While Ashley says he is hopeful that something positive will come out this entire episode, he cannot ignore the irony of it all. “I have been fired for influencing students with my personal opinion, while the Principal has been enforcing his own on the students all along,” he says.
 
