 gifted himself a birthday gift in advance by winning the World Cup   gold with a world-record equalling score to boot on Wednesday. His birthday falls on March 30.

 Ankur, who was born in Sonipat and lives in Delhi, clinched the gold at the ongoing   in Acapulco. Ankur shot a score of 75 in the final to equal the world record created by Australia's James Willet in the New Delhi edition of the competition last month. The record is fresh since International   Sport Federation (ISSF) has implemented new rules from January 1 this year.
 
 Willet, who scored 73 in the 80-shot final, won the silver while the bronze went to China's Ying Qi, who shot 52.
 
 “This has to be a special medal for me. It pays for the hard work that has been done in the last seven years. I am glad it came before I turn 25,” the shooter told TOI.
 
 Asked how much the medal means to him since it has come at a time when double trap is on its way out from the Olympics programme, he said, “The medal is still special. Also, the ISSF will have a final meeting with the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in the coming months, so hope the decision is changed and double trap stays in the programme.” 
 
 But if it doesn't, Ankur will gradually move to skeet or trap. “We have Asian Games and Commonwealth Games next year. I will continue to shoot double trap till then and may be post the meets, I will shift either to skeet or trap. I haven't decided yet,” he added.
 
 This is the second World Cup medal for Ankur. His first came in February when he shot 74 in the final in New Delhi to come second behind Willet.
 
 The Indian qualified second for the final on Wednesday, after bettering Chinese Ying in the classification shoot-off. Both Ankur and Ying had scored 138150 in the qualification round. Top six shooters make it to the final, where the qualification scores are not carried forward and the final starts from zero. In the final, Ankur could have broken the world record had he not missed a bird in the last 10 shots. Nonetheless, it was sufficient for him to top the podium.
 
