KOLKATA: American naturalist  's visit to Kolkata has rekindled the city's romance with her husband and India-born British naturalist   whose books have enthralled millions for over half a century. Lee is currently in India to retrace her husband's early life in Jamshedpur and his trip to Kolkata in 1978.

 Shernaz Chinoy , who teaches history, geography and English at Loreto House, owes Gerald to what she is today . In fact, the lessons she learned from Gerald's books when she was a child now percolates to her students through her teachings.
 
 “They say   was a naturalist, a zookeeper, a conservationist, an author. But to me, he was the best teacher a child could get. I first came across a Gerald Durell book in school and it transformed my life. His style of writing with humour and vivid description inspired children to imagine. It made me creative. He taught me, and my students through me, appreciation and respect of all animals,“ said Chinoy .
 
 It was Gerald Durrell's description of the animals he had collected from all over the world that left Kushal Mukherjee starry-eyed. The founder of Prakriti Sansad -one of the first nature clubs in the city -read his Gerald book in the 1970s and it immediately kindled the desire to collect. “To children, Gerald was fascinating; someone every kid aspired to be. I began collecting Indian birds. At the Rashbehari home terrace, we had an aviary with starling, muniya, magpie, bulbul, parakeet, peacock and several other bird species. We also had a jungle cat, civet, mongoose, otter, wild duck and goose,“ he recounted. That was before the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 was introduced. Though he gave up his collection after the legislation came in, Mukherjee says his realization that wildlife needed to be conserved was instilled by Gerald's books.
 
 Zoo specialist Shubhobroto Ghosh has a different take on zoos after starting out as proponent of animals in captivity to a detractor now. But he remains an admirer of Gerald. “I was a member of the Dodo Club and associated with the Jersey   Trust for two decades. What makes Gerald special is that both those in favour and those against zoos admire him for the standards he set in zookeeping,“ said Ghosh.
 
 For former Zoological Survey of India director A K Ghosh, Lee's arrival in Kolkata has sparked memories of a pioneering book by Ram Brahma Sanyal, the first superintendent of Alipore Zoological Gardens. “Sanyal's ` A Handbook of the Management of Animals in Captivity in Lower Bengal' published in 1892 that was reviewed by Nature became a standard handbook of zookeepers till Lee Crandall's book `The Management of Wild Mammals in Captivity' half a century later. So we had our own Gerald in the city . Of course, Gerald's description of faraway places continues to appeal to people. That is why his most famous book `My Family and Other Animals' still survives,“ he remarked.
 
 At Oxford Bookstore and Story , Gerald Durrell's books are still popular among pre-teens, teens and young adults. But there's a concern. “New readers seldom pick up these books unless recommended by others. Many do not know about these books because of lack of publicity . I hope Lee Durrell's visit sparks fresh interest among kids and encourage them to pick up his books and explore Gerald's fascinating world,“ said Pronab Karmakar of Story .
 
