

 
 
 The college with me at helm has so far bought only a sofa set and four paper shredder machines. The old sofa was bought almost 20 years ago when Archana Sinha was the principal. The tender of both the purchases was passed by the advisory committee and finance committee of the college.
 
 
 
 That’s not true. The computer application department’s coordinator, Abha Sharan, has informed the college that the computers in her department are not compatible with the latest software and, as such, teachers and students are facing hardship. The purchase committee has, therefore, decided to buy 40 new computers. The college floated an open tender on April 7, which was closed on May 9. Now, the purchase committee will decide whom to buy the computers from.
 
 Just as computers, LED bulbs have also not been bought. We are thinking about buying LED tubelights though. For, power on the campus tripped due to short circuit and continuous voltage fluctuations last year and an engineer suggested we should go for energy-efficient LED tubes. We have asked for a demo. That’s it. The college has not purchased even a single LED tube so far.
 
 
 
 The RUSA money was spent as per the guidelines, which include 30% on purchase of equipment and furniture and 35% each on renovation and construction. The plan for the utilisation of funds was drawn by former principal Dolly Sinha. Even my immediate predecessors Asha Singh and Jayshree Mishra only cleared the bills. I have also only cleared some pending bills.
 
 
 
 I have been associated with this college since 1967 when I was a student. In 1976, I joined my alma mater as a teacher on transfer from B N College. In 2012, I was transferred to   as PG department head of sociology. Now that I am back in my college as its principal, I earnestly wish to do something more than teaching its students. I am at work to remove the deficiencies pointed out by the NAAC team during its last visit to the college in 2012 when it was awarded ‘A’ grade.
 
 My entire team is working on improving the scenario in energy saving, better environment and add-on courses. This year, the college introduced certain add-on courses like human rights. We are aiming to get the highest ‘A+’ grade from NAAC this time.
 
