The   on Wednesday announced dates for 
  -  ,  , Punjab, Manipur and Goa. Polling will take place between February 11 and March 8 and the EC has reiterated its commitment towards free and fair elections. To ensure the same, it has spelt out the strict don't for parties and candidates.

 
  Defacement of government and public property and space is a strict no. EC clearly states that all wall writing, papers, posters, hoardings, banners, flags etc will be removed from government property 'within 24 hours from the announcement of elections.' In addition, unauthorised political displays on private property is not allowed. "These shall be removed within 72 hours from announcement of elections by the Commission."
 
 
  Private vehicles with flags and stickers may be put solely by the owner and should not cause inconvenience or distraction to fellow motorists/ pedestrians. Commercial vehicles need requisite permit from District Election Officer/Returning Officer before being used for campaigning. External modifications to vehicles like adding loudspeaker and lights are subject to Motor Vehicles Act/Rules and any other local rules.
 
 
  
  
 
  EC has imposed a total ban on use of official vehicles by any political party, candidate or other people connected with election. This includes any transportation machine belonging to central government, state government, UT administrators, public undertakings of state/centre, joint-sector undertakings of state/centre, local bodies, municipal bodies and any body with even the most minimal public fund invested in it. Officials performing election-related duties are exempted.
 
 
  Advertisements,public broadcasts and political messages on print and electronic media at the cost of public exchequer is an absolute no. Any such advertisement already released must be taken back with immediate effect.
 
  Distribution of liquor, cash, contra banned drugs and narcotics is strictly forbidden. Flying squads and surveillance teams have been activated to check on such illegal activities.
 
 
  
  
 
