There are all sorts of people in this world. It’s difficult and unfair to broadly categorise them in just two categories (good and bad) because each one of us has a unique personality and distinct traits. However, there are certain types of people who are known to spread negativity (knowingly or unknowingly) and thrive in what others see as toxic behaviour. While there is little you can do to help them, especially if they resist change, it is important to realise that they can cause a lot of damage thanks to all the negativity they unleash. You first need to identify these people in your life before you decide how to deal with them. 

 
 
 These are the people who think it is their birthright to know everything that is happening in everyone’s life and then gleefully spread the details to whoever cares to listen! Gossiping occasionally when it doesn’t harm the other person is alright but knowingly running down someone behind their back is best avoided. 
 
 
 
 These people won’t think twice in forming an opinion based on the smallest thing that is said or done, leaving you scratching your head. They often look down upon people and consider them inferior. Judgemental people find it difficult to accept things because they are often rigid in their thinking. 
 
 
 
 Nothing can ever make jealous people satisfied with what they have — even when good things happen to them. They always think someone else had it better or feel like they were left shortchanged. They see the glass half empty and have no qualms about bringing others down with their farcical logic. 
 
 
 
 While initially you may feel sorry for them, such people play the victim card so often that eventually, you begin to wonder whether they are bringing it all on themselves or simply making things seem unnecessarily bleak.   are unable to take responsibility for anything that goes wrong in their lives and drain you off mentally and emotionally with their tales of woe. 
 
 
 
 You need to be most careful about these type of people because you might not even realise that you’re being taken for a ride. Manipulators are often good at gauging your moods, likes and dislikes and use it to their advantage. They won’t stop at getting things out of you but will rarely step in to help when you need it. 
 
 
