SILIGURI: Eight days after they played host to   at Naxalbari, adivasi couple   joined   on Wednesday, prompting BJP to cry foul. The Mahalis, who allegedly went missing on Tuesday night, emerged alongside Trinamool lead-ers in the morning. They claimed they were joining the party without “fear or provocation”.

 Villagers at South Kotiajot in Naxalbari witnessed the same Geeta, who had served lunch to Shah on a banana leaf on April 25, welcome tourism minister   into her house and offer him a cup of tea. However, a huge police force at the couple’s home set tongues wagging.
 
  Later, at the local party office, Geeta accepted a Trinamool flag from Deb and read out a one-line statement: “I like Trinamool Con-gress and have therefore joined the party.” 
 
 State BJP president Dilip Ghosh immediately accused the ruling party of kidnapping the couple and forcing them to join the party. Later, a BJP delegation called on West Bengal governor Keshari Nath Tripathi and presented the case as an “affront on an adivasi woman”. The party will also write to the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes drawing its attention to the plight of a woman belonging to the scheduled tribe.
 
 The incident also triggered sharp reactions from the BJP’s national leadership with Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad calling it “a textbook case of Trinamool’s revenge politics” at a time when chief minister Mamata Banerjee “has accused the Centre of playing vendetta politics”. 
 
 In Kolkata, the sate BJP president claimed that the incident showed that Trinamool was “scared” of BJP. “On getting a whiff of the incident, our partymen went to Naxalbari police station to lodge a complaint against Trinamool. But the police declined to accept the complaint. However, a police complaint has been lodged via e-mail. Raju and Geeta Mahali are not BJP activists, but they had to pay a heavy price for playing host to the BJP president,” Ghosh said. 
 
 Tourism minister Gautam Deb, however, rubbished the BJP’s charge saying the   had joined Trinamool because they were secular. “People in Bengal believe in secularism which is why the couple joined our party,” Deb said. He promised the couple all benefits under the state government’s social security schemes.
 
 None of the Mahalis’ neighbours in South Kotiajot village agreed to speak on record, but one claimed the couple went missing on Tuesday night. “It looks like they had to join Trinamool under duress. Else, why would Geeta read out a written statement at the Trinamool party office? But we can’t say anything unless the couple speaks up,” he said without wanting to be identified. 
 
 A large police force led by Naxalbari OC Tapan Pal and Phansidewa OC Sanjay Das cordoned off the Trinamool party office on Wednesday to thwart untoward incidents even as BJP activists assembled at party gram panchayat member Sadhana Mandal’s house at a distance. 
 
 
