CHENNAI: The   has issued notices to 66 high-profile people including a former  , a former head of judiciary and businessmen in   and Puducherry under the anti-benami law, highly-placed sources told TOI. The list also includes the name of sand mining baron J Sekar Reddy. 

 Till June 30, the department had attached properties of 65 people, worth Rs433 crore. A ‘benami owner’ of a building on Anna Salai at   junction in Chennai has not responded to the notice. The action by I-T authorities is part of a multi-city crackdown against black money under the new law.
 
 “The newly amended Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 empowers taxmen to confiscate properties and initiate action against benami owners and benami holders,” said a senior I-T official. “In the past we had only one official who could take action under the act. But now we have a separate wing comprising four officials and several inspectors,” said the official. 
 
 Notices have been issued to 66 people. “We got information about benami properties as well as about people who actually owned them. After the act was amended, we announced rewards for people giving information about benami properties,” said the official.
 
 As per the act, properties are attached and the benami owner must pay 25% of the property’s value as fine. If he refuses to come clean, he faces imprisonment. The official said of the total worth of properties attached, Rs102 crore in cash belonged to Reddy. Officials also attached 11 gold bars seized from him during the raids in November last year. 
 
 The department collated the total worth of Reddy’s properties based on his diary. “We did not check his computers or other accounts. Based on the data in the diary we learned that Rs102 crore belonged to his benamis. This was also the case with the gold bars. The diary shows the cash balance and the money he got from others and how much he paid various people,” said the official. 
 
 With regard to the former Union minister, the department found that a power company in benami name. “The company was also attached, but the politician has challenged our jurisdiction for such action,” said the official.
 
 Similarly, the former head of judiciary had several properties in the names of his family members in Tamil Nadu, and some of them have been attached. “There are some residents from Tamil Nadu who have benami properties in Bengaluru and Kolkata. We have attached a property worth Rs40 crore in Bengaluru belonging to a person in Chennai. Another property in Kolkata linked to a Chennai individual has also been attached,” the official said. 
 
 The crackdown is likely to continue.
 
