KOLKATA: To reduce their over-dependence on local cops, the police directorate at   has asked the CID’s district and local units to report on all crimes within their zones. The CID’s brief is to report back on these incidents “independently” and without local police inputs. The direction comes in the wake of repeated flare-ups in which police had to face a collective public anger. Reports indicate that in several such cases, the local police had either undermined the problems or chosen to ignore them altogether. 

 According to a senior officer, the local police’s role in   is already under probe. “A civic volunteer attached to the Ausgram police station had allegedly set up a stationary shop on government land just outside a school gate. The concerned inspector chose to ignore the complaints being made. If action was initiated before, things wouldn’t have gone out of control.” The officer also indicated that in  , the local police had completely ignored the fact that “outsiders” were organising mass protests for a month-and-a-half. The police directorate is handicapped by local inputs, therefore, the decision. 
 
 From now on,   will probe all serious crimes that the top brass may feel can snowball in to a major law and order problem. This will be done without waiting for the district police to apprise them of the gravity of the situation. CID’s top bosses have also asked their district machinery to maintain a list on the status of various important probes by the district police and report the same to the headquarters.
 
 While this system was already in place earlier on paper, the actual situation on ground was different. District units hardly moved unless instructed by their respective SPs. The FIRs, though, will essentially be registered with the local police as per the law. “The CID will not be bossing around. They will merely act as a guiding agency for the district cops,” said an officer.
 
 Sources said the district CID officers were apprised of the new decision at a monthly meeting in Bhavani Bhawan on Tuesday. Sources present in that meeting said this “watch” on daily crimes became imperative after it was found that reaction to a few sensitive cases in the recent past were either slow or not up to the mark. 
 
 At present, it’s the senior officers no less than the rank of SP, who keep track of major crimes, instruct their local units to act accordingly. The new decision will make the in-charge of that unit — usually an inspector — accountable to keep track of things taking place around them. 
 
 
