IMPHAL: Manipur chief minister   took a dig at Prime Minister Narendar Modi on Saturday by saying that why the framework agreement, which the Centre signed with NSCN(IM), is not being made public if there is nothing against the state's territorial integrity. 

 "The PM said he discussed with Congress leader(s) before signing the agreement. I am asking the PM to name who is that Congress leader. As for me, we have no idea on what is there in the agreement. If Manipur is not mentioned in the agreement, I don't see any reason for keeping the document a secret. Let it be made public," said Ibobi after Modi addressed a BJP election rally here on Friday.
 
 As the state gears up for the March 4 and 8 assembly polls, Congress and BJP are locked in a battle of words over the framework agreement. The ruling Congress, in fact, has found the agreement as a potential tool to corner BJP when people of the state, especially in the Imphal Valley where 40 out of 60 seats are located, are sensitive on the issue of territorial integrity of Manipur.
 
 Recalling the 2001 ceasefire extension with NSCN(IM) to Manipur, Ibobi said the assembly building was set ablaze by people in protest against the move. "During  's time, the ceasefire was extended to Manipur without consulting the state government. Again in Modi's time, the framework agreement was signed without taking the state government into confidence," Ibobi, who is seeking a fourth term of the Congress government, said. 
 
 The CM also charged the BJP with being hand-in-glove with the   (UNC) which has imposed an economic blockade in two national highways of the state. "The PM says that if BJP comes to power then the blockade will be lifted immediately and people of Manipur can celebrate Holi with great fanfare. What does it mean then? It means that the PM is anticipating that the blockade will be lifted only if BJP comes to power. This mean, BJP is hand-in-glove with UNC," added Ibobi. 
 
 The chief minister said Modi did not do his homework while attacking the Congress government on the state's power scenario. "Modi said there is no electricity in Manipur and BJP will ensure 24-hour power supply. The PM perhaps did not know that the power ministry has selected Manipur's power sector reforms as one of the best models in the country. The power ministry has also asked other states to emulate the Manipur model," he said. 
 
 
