KOLKATA:   has finally started the drive to demolish 10 illegal buildings at the gateway to New Town that have stalled the Rs 4,500-crore   project for almost five years now. Even as work on the rest of the 32-km stretch has been brisk, the 400-m area became a problem zone, owing to unauthorized constructions.

 Workers of Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNl), which is executing the key airport connectivity from New Garia along EM Bypass and New Town, have over the past three days razed a part of the wall of Mahisgote Primary School, one of the 10 buildings coming in the path of the Metro alignment. A part of the two-storey building will have to be pulled down; for that the school has already been been shifted elsewhere in Rajarhat. From Wednesday , RVNL intends to start piling work on the area where the wall had been located.
 
 None of the 10 buildings --three single-storey , three two-storey , a four-storey, a fivestorey and two six-storey structures--was there in June 2011, when Metro construction was notified. In spite of a notice under Section 21 of   and Works Act, which prohibits any con struction on a proposed Metro alignment, most of those buildings came up in the area between 2012 and 2014.
 
 TOI reported last year that the Mamata Banerjee government had given the go-ahead for the demolition after a report by railway undertaking Rail India Technical and Economic Service (Rites) showed a re-alignment was not possible along Mahisbathan. So, the 10 unauthorized buildings would have to go. “The demolition drive started with the Mahisgote free primary school as it's not a private property . Discussions are on between RVNL and the DM about how to go about razing the other buildings,“ said Salt Lake mayor Sabyasachi Dutta, who has conducted several meetings to break the impasse.
 
 “The other buildings will not be pulled down overnight, till compensation was worked out,“ said a Metro source. But the railways is bound by law only to rehabilitate or compensate for project-affected-persons with legal documents to prove their ownership. In the case of the highrises here, the flat-owners can't furnish the sanction plan for their properties, which are reportedly illegal. “The promoters had taken permission from adjoining panchayats though the plots belong to the urban development and other state departments,“ an urban development official said.
 
 This is one of the few times in Bengal when buildings will make way for infrastructure.Most times compromises are made and projects are jeopardized, the East-West Metro route realignment being one of the biggest examples. In October 2015, urban development department and its minister   sought to realign the route to avoid demotion of the buildings. But in January 2016, Rites conducted a survey and ruled out any alternative route.
 
