NASHIK: The   (RTO) on Friday clarified that the penalty on commercial vehicles that failed to get the fitness certificate on time will be applicable with effect from December 29, 2016.

 The statement comes as a huge relief to the owners of commercial vehicles who were shocked to learn that they would have to pay huge fine for not getting the certificate on time.
 
 Bhagwan Pathak, district executive president of the Shramik Rickshaw, Taxi, Tempo, Truck Chalak Malak Sena, said, “The Centre on December 29, 2016 made one-sided changes in the Motor Vehicle Act 1989 and increased the fees related to rickshaws, taxis, trucks and tempos. While increasing the fees, which was 10 to 30 times more than the existing fees, no thought was given to the problems faced by commercial vehicle owners or drivers.”
 
 Pathak said the commercial vehicle owners were worried about the huge fine that was implemented for not renewing the fitness certificate on time.
 
  of the   said, “The fee hike or fine was increased tremendously. Earlier, if the owner of a commercial vehicle like rickshaw, taxi, mini truck, could did not get the fitness test of his vehicle on time, he had to pay a fine of Rs 100 for arriving 15 days late, Rs 200 for coming a month late or Rs 2,400 for coming a year later.”
 
 He added, “After the December 29 notification, the late fee increased with every passing day, which was Rs 750 for arriving a fortnight later, Rs 1,500 for coming a month later and Rs 18,250 for coming a year later. Due to the distress among motorists, a huge agitation of   was organised in the city on January 31.”
 
 Senior RTO officials said they have got clarification from the transport commissioner office in Mumbai, according to which commercial vehicle owners — who have not got their fitness certificate renewed — would pay the old fine until December 28, but the new fee will be levied from December 29, 2016 onwards.
 
 Vehicle owners said that if a rickshaw driver had not renewed the fitness certificate for say six months before December 29, he could pay the fine that was applicable before December 29, which was Rs 100 for 15 days or Rs 200 for a month. The new fine of Rs 50 per day would be applicable for him after the notification date of the new fine structure i.e. December 29.
 
