While many youngsters are clued in about Formula One and other such races, these   students take a step further. They make their own formula-style cars and take part in races!   Racing, the official formula student electric racing team of SRM University, has brought out their latest racing car called Zero Emission Vehicle 2.0 (Zev 2.0). Two weeks ago, the team took the car to Coimbatore, and won the Formula Green 2017, a national-level formula electric competition that was held at the Kari Motor Speedway.
Obviously, the whole team is kicked about what they have achieved. “This is the result of the hard work we put in for about one-and-a-half years. We started working on this vehicle in 2015 and completed it only by the end of February this year. This was the first championship for which we took the car and we are thrilled that we won against nine other teams from colleges across the country,” says Harsh Agarwal, the captain of the team. He adds that this is the third vehicle from the team and it is a fully electric-equipped car. “The previous one was called Zev 1.0. It was nicknamed Boltaic. It cost `25 lakh to complete it. We took it for Formula Students, Italy in 2015. But it didn’t do great there. On this new car, we have fixed all the issues we had on the previous one and completed the project at a much cheaper price. We faced some difficulty in finding sponsors and yet, completed Zev 2.0 for less than `15 lakh. The college also helped us with the funding,” he informs.
 The championship at Coimbatore was divided into two categories — static and dynamic events. “Static events include design evaluation, cost analysis and business plan to market the car. As part of it, we had to disassemble the car and assemble the car again. We were the first to complete that in less than 60 minutes. The next part was dynamic events, which tested the car’s acceleration, endurance, etc. We topped in both the categories,” explains Harsh. 
 The drivers, too, were students, and they had a one-of-a-kind experience racing on the motor track. “We had two drivers with us. Generally, we choose drivers after seeing how well they perform on a go-kart racing track. It was done the same way this time as well. Later, they were given training sessions with the car we have made before the championship,” says Harsh.
 The 40-member team, which had students from different departments, also had three girls. One of them, Ayurda Dhingra, says, “I had apprehensions in the beginning about doing good work. Generally, motorsports and car-making are areas which boys are most interested. But once I started working on it, I realised I was as good as any other boy in the team. As this project was not a part of our curriculum, we spent time after college hours to complete it. It wasn’t a problem to stay back late for the workshop, though there were only few girls in the team.”
 With a smirk on his face, the team’s vice captain, Dhruv Singh Bhati, says, “Though this meant a painful death to my social life, the 
 victory was something to cheer about. By putting a competitive spin on this entire competition, we, as a team, were motivated to think out of the box.”
 Another student, Vishnu Sanjay, sums up, “It is only during projects like this that people understand the importance of managerial as well as technical expertise.”
 
