Nagpur: It has been over 10 years that residential locality — Nava Nakasha in Lashkari Bagh — is flooded with sewage water. The main sewer lines in the conservancy lanes, which were laid in the late 1930s after Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) was set up have not been replaced since then. While residents complained that the drains are overflowing due to choking and non-maintenance, civic officials blamed illegal constructions over the sewage lines. TOI visited the spot and witnessed the unhygienic conditions residents are living under. According to them, at least 100 houses of the area are affected. Backyards of many houses were found to be submerged in overflowing sewage water. “Every time we use the toilet or wash clothes and utensils, the water starts overflowing,” they said. The poorly maintained sewage system is also giving health scare to the residents. Recently, 65-year-old Indubai Shevade slipped and injured her leg. “The area outside the toilet remains covered with a pool of dirty water,” she said. Another resident Rushikumar Hirekar said the stagnant contaminated water attracts fleas and mosquitoes. “In the last two months, my 22-year-old daughter was hospitalized twice. She keeps getting fever,” Hirekar said. Outbreak of diseases like malaria, cholera and dengue is common in the area, said Ilias Ahmad, another resident of the locality. Residents further alleged that the drinking water is also getting contaminated due to leakage in sewer lines. “The water has a foul smell and we have to boil it and add chlorine to purify it,” said Mohammad Anjuman. “Groundwater of the area is highly polluted. We can’t use water of our wells,” he added.  According to the residents, their efforts to solve the problem have gone down the drain with the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) taking no action. Showing the copies of various complaint letters they have sent to the civic body, residents said, “Over the years, we have approached every official — right from corporator to zonal officer, municipal commissioner and even the chief minister, but to no avail.” About six months back, NMC spent Rs15 lakh to put a new sewage line in nearby Chauks colony. “It worked for a while but then the water stopped flowing because the line was not constructed properly,” they said, adding despite repeated complaints, NMC workers did not de-choke the pipelines.  Assistant municipal commissioner of Ashi Nagar zone Vijay Humne, however, said that there was no cooperation from residents for carrying out the repair work. “The area has numerous illegal constructions over the pipelines. At some houses, the chambers are inside the kitchen and bedrooms. But with a religious structure, the locality is sensitive and we cannot take action without residents’ consent,” said Humne. Referring to the work carried out in Chauks colony, Humne said, “Out of 80 houses, 70 were ready to remove their encroachments and thus we could lay a new pipeline. But in other localities of Nava Naksha, residents do not let workers remove the constructions. How will the workers repair the lines if they don’t have free space.” 