Mumbai: In yet another embarrassment to the 160-year-old  , a student received her convocation certificates with the literal Marathi   of her surname. Nikita  , a BMM student from Ramnarain Ruia College was shocked to see her surname as ‘Patang’ in Marathi in the certificate. The university’s examination house, instead of transliterating the surname, had translated it.

  While the university claims to have received only one complaint so far, there could be many such cases, said principals, adding that names like ‘Joy’ could be translated into ‘Anand’. An MU official claimed the mistake crept in as they used a software that directly translates names in Marathi.
 
 The error was brought to the notice of the varsity, when Kite tweeted her erroneous degree certificate and tagged the university’s official handle on Sunday. Though the girl could not be reached on her cellphone on Monday, an official said she approached the university and got the error rectified. 
 
 Meanwhile, the surname of another student from the same college, Deepali Thakurdesai, has erroneously appeared as Thakurbhai in the Marathi script on her certificate. Deepali, who was not in the city on the day of the degree distribution ceremony on Saturday, learnt of the misspell through friends. “Though the MU said it would be rectified on Tuesday, I want them to ensure that students should not be made to run around for such silly mistakes,” she told TOI. 
 
 The in-charge controller of examinations, Deepak Wasave, said the department uses a software to make the certificates. “When the dictionary is on, the names get automatically translated. Certificates are usually proofread, so there may not be many such cases. One student approached us and we have rectified the error in her certificate,” said Wasave, adding that the university distributed around 1.76 lakh certificates, and there could be 40-50 cases of errors.
 
 For the first time this year, degree certificates were printed with QR (quick response) codes that help to immediately verify the authenticity of varsity degrees by scanning the code, through a smartphone app. The certificates with QR codes also delayed the printing this year, thereby delaying the degree distribution ceremonies at colleges.
 
