PUNE:  , standard IX  , bagged the   in the senior category of the   2016-17 that was organized by the   in association with the Pugmarks Eco Tours recently.

 The second prize in the senior category was bagged by Shivai Jawalkar of Std VIII from Rosary School, Warje, while Mihir Deshpande of Std VIII from The Bishop's School, Camp, clinched the third spot.
 
 “I have taken up arts in school and practice regularly.Preparing for the elementary and intermediate drawing exams has enhanced my drawing skills. Observing the works of painters online helped me in better imagination, De said.
 
 In the junior category, Aadarsh Shankwan of Std VII from Nirmala Convent School bagged the first prize. He was followed by Sanika Nimbalkar of Std VII from Acharya Shree Vijay Vallabh School at the second spot and Anandita Kashyap of Std V from Vidya Pratishthan's Magarpatta City Public School at the third position.
 
 “I enjoyed the competition thoroughly. As soon as the topics were announced, a lot of ideas came to mind and I tried to put them on paper. Visiting my grandfather's farm in the village was an added advantage,“ Shankwan said.
 
 As many as 400 students participated in the city finale of the contest, which was held at CM International School, Baner.The finale followed preliminary rounds in various schools that saw participation of around 6,000 students.
 
 The topics for the competition were nature-friendly with the junior category (Std V to VII) drawing on the topic `My visit to a farm' and the senior category (Std VIII and IX) expressing their ideas on `Vaca tion at the seashore'.
 
 The opening address of the event was delivered by Tanvi Thatte, chief executive officer of Pugmarks. “At Pugmarks safety comes first. All our volunteers strive for the safety of children and the re is always a girl volunteer accompanying in the camp. We demonstrate ecoconservation and imbibe the values of eco-diversity,“ she said. Other dignitaries present on the occasion were Rupesh Majethiya, senior manager, operations, and Bhavin Majethiya, senior manager, sales from Pugmarks. “The topics were very unique and required students to get close to the nature. It is commendable that the students also portrayed minute details like importance of nature and role of animals in the ecosystem. We had some fantastic drawings and a tough judging time,“ Mukim Tamboli, one of the judges, said.Other judges included artists Suresh Gulage and Kalyani Gulage, and Swati Jethwa, founder of Mahi creations.
 
 “We took into consideration the subject knowledge, colouring scheme and perfection in human figures while evaluating the drawings. Their personal experience was a deciding factor. For example, one who had visited a farm could portray it better than the one who hadn't. Overall, it was a great attempt by all the participants,“ Gulage said.
 
 Vivek Kabra, founder, Simplified Technologies for Life and co-sponsor of the event, introduced students to Suryakumbh -world's largest solar cooking festival.
 
 As total of 10 consolation prizes in each category were also awarded. Winners received exciting travel tours from Pugmarks, solar cookers from Simplified Technologies for Life and gift hampers from My Stationery along with trophies and certificates from Times NIE.
 
