Virtually setting a five day deadline for merger talks with the rival faction, rebel AIADMK leader O   is set to launch a statewide tour from May 5. Panneerselvam has planned to visit all 32 districts and meet his supporters during the tour which is likely to end by May last. 

 The tour, besides hoping the mop up support for him, is also seen as OPS's attempt to prepare them for local body elections. 
 
 "He will commence the tour from Kancheepuram," said Mettur MLA S Semmalai. Leaders in OPS faction say they expect the merger talks to come to a conclusion before the tour. "Whichever way the talks go, we expect to arrive at a clear picture before OPS launches the tour. In fact, our deadline is Tuesday," said a senior member of OPS's merger talks committee.
 
 OPS camp has also planned to up the ante by appointing district level office bearers during his visit. "Besides the possibilities of the talks succeeding or getting stuck, there is another outcome that is highly probable ­ that a section of MLAs from EPS side would come out in our support," he said.
 
  said they would not step down from the two demands ­ recommendation of CBI inquiry in  's death and ouster of   family from party. "However, I am optimistic about the way things are progressing," he said. Though senior leaders of OPS camp are cautious not to vitiate the atmosphere and sound optimistic, disillusionment was palpable which has percolated down the cadres.
 
 Two days after Semmalai said cadres on their side are against talks with EPS faction, functionaries who participated in a meeting of rebel faction in Coimbatore have expressed similar views. "Most of the cadres on our side feel that we are taken for granted, which shows from the contradictory statements issued by EPS's men," said a Kavundampalayam MLA V C Arukutty .
 
 Much of the functionaries feel EPS faction is not sincere in their merger talks. "Cadres feel that EPS camp doesn't appear to accept the two demands placed by us. So far, there is no formal invitation sent to us for talks. They say an SMS was sent asking us to come. Is it the way to invite a former chief minister (OPS) for talks?" asked Semmalai.
 
 Ahead of a May Day public meeting in Chennai where OPS is expected to deliver a speech to his followers, chief miniter Edappadi K Palaniswami hit out at Semmalai on Sunday questioning his contribution to the people, provoking further resentment in OPS camp. OPS men say one section of EPS faction is sincerely working for merger and totally agreed to ouster of Sasikala family, but there are other groups within that faction which is against it. But, AIADMK (Amma) faction reiterated its commitment for holding merger talks. "We are clear. Come, sit, talk. We are openly saying that let us settle whatever the disputes be," said Finance minister D Jayakumar, in Chennai.
 
 He, however, blamed the OPS camp for sending out contradictory signals.
 
