
 COIMBATORE: A 28-year-old conservancy worker of the city municipal corporation contractor was crushed to death under the container of a tipper truck on Wednesday morning. The fatal accident took place when the driver of the truck lowered the container without noticing the worker standing between the driver’s cabin and container. 
 
 The deceased, Ramesh S, had started his work around 7am along with his co-worker Dharmaraj and truck driver   V, 29. “They collected garbage form a restaurant near the clock tower in Town Hall and Praveen spotted some garbage stuck between the driver’s cabin and the container. He asked Ramesh to remove the garbage,” said the investigating officer K P Shanthi. “Praveen raised the container from the driver’s cabin allowing Ramesh to stand between the cabin and the container. Assuming that Ramesh had removed all the garbage, Praveen pressed the controls to bring the container back to rest,” she added. 
 
 By the time someone could signal Praveen about his mistake, the damage was done. Ramesh died on the spot, police said. “The body was brought to the Coimbatore Government College and Hospital and postmortem was carried out on Wednesday afternoon. The funeral took place at Athupalayam on the same evening,” said state organiser of  , Ravi Kumar R. 
 
 Ramesh is survived by his 58-year-old mother S Muthammal and his three siblings. Muthammal is also a conservancy worker with the   while his brother Senthil Kumar, 30, is a daily-wage labourer. Ramesh has two sisters who are married. He was hired by a contractor - Vardhan Enterprises. According to the city health officer K Santosh Kumar, Ramesh was working for the civic body for a year. 
 
 The deceased’s family has placed two demands - Rs15lakh compensation from the contactor and a job for a family member in the corporation. When no assurance came from the civic body or the contractor, the conservancy workers blocked road in front of the government hospital after the post-mortem. 
 
 The city health officer then promised to provide ESI pension of Rs5,000 per month for a dependent and a job for a family member. “A one-time settlement of provident fund of Rs20,000 will also be provided to the family. About the demand for the compensation, a decision will be taken only after discussing with the corporation commissioner,” said Santosh Kumar. “The contractor had provided Rs40,000 as compensation to the family,” said corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan. 
 
 Meanwhile, the traffic investigation wing (Coimbatore West) has registered a case of death due to negligence and arrested Praveen Kumar. The city municipal corporation, however, maintained that Ramesh died due to his own negligence. A corporation official said Ramesh sustained injuries in the head after he hit against a part of the truck. “He sustained head injuries. By the time he was rushed to the GH, Ramesh was dead,” the officer said. 
 
 The corporation commissioner however said he will examine the police reports and take appropriate action. Vardhan Enterprises when contacted were not available for comment. 
 
