MANIPAL: One of the important landmarks of Manipal University  , popularly known as KC, is history now. Soon, it will be turned into a   and work for the plaza has already started at   few days ago. 

 However, for the students of  , KC is just not a place for them, they have an emotional connect with it. Students and alumni term it as a ‘heart in biology’, ‘a hub in networking’ and ‘a centroid in Math’. Soon after the announcement of the student plaza and demolition of KC, posts by alumni and students went viral on social media about the   and memories of their days spent around the circle during college days. Only pictures will be available for posterity to know that once upon a time, there was a circle here where students spent a lot of time after classes, said the posts. The buildings around KC, like the milk booth, a tailor shop, fruit and tuck shop, a   and also the basketball court have been razed out for the upcoming facility. 
 
 One of the MITian Chendil Kumar wrote on his social media wall, “Our emotions wounded, memories mutilated and an era demolished. Much before your snazzy food courts and cafeterias sprang up, Kamath’s was a cozy campus cafe that MITians related to … I am sure many poets will pen odes to this lifestyle café.” 
 
 The space around KC was the most sought after in the evenings for everything—a place where students would congregate to celebrate festivals like Holi and Diwali. It was the ideal place to put up banners and posters; a place where the students would step out to relax for a chit-chat after classes. It was the most happening place on the Manipal University campus. 
 
 “It will be a much better place in about a year,” said GK Prabhu, director, MIT. “As an impressive and elegant student plaza will come up and the students will find it better in every way. There will be ample space for their activities. Facilities will be created to encourage teaching-learning outside classrooms and we may also plan a few shops. 
 
 He said, “Two new basketball courts are under construction and the gym has been temporarily shifted to one of the D-Blocks with renovated features. New area for student club activities has been created near the food court and a new auto stand is under construction. All the existing shops have been relocated near the MIT food court basement. The project may take 18 months to complete. However, I have requested the project team to complete this structure at the earliest so that it can be inaugurated during MIT’s Diamond Jubilee Year 2017.”
 
 
