Jodhpur: A newly   of the city has accused some policemen including the station house officer of roughing up them at midnight, arresting them without allowing them to speak to their family and filing a case against them for causing interference in government duty.

 After the video footage of the incident went viral, the issue was raised by Nagaur MLA Hanuman Beniwal in assembly on Tuesday after which home minister Gulab Chand Kataria assured of a high-level inquiry into the matter.
 
 According to the husband, Mohsin Ali Ansari, this all happened on the night of March 21, when he had returned home with his wife after watching movie at 1 am. He claimed, while parking the vehicle, some policemen in a PCR van inquired about being there at that time.
 
 “We tried to pacify them but they started misbehaving with us. One of them, a head constable, was drunk upon which we demanded for SHO,” said Mohsin.
 
 “Surprisingly, the SHO —Bhupendra Singh — also started misbehaving with us and when we complained about it, a drunk head constable pushed my wife by holding her hand along with me in the van,” Mohsin said.
 
 The couple was taken to police station and a complaint was registered against them for causing interference in discharge of duty by a government servant and hence arrested them. After getting bail from the court, the couple finally filed a complaint against the policeman.
 
 Footages of the incident went viral on Monday, wherein the policeman were seen pushing the wife of Mohsin inside the van by twisting her hand. According to the couple, police had also deleted the recording made by the wife at the spot.
 
 But police continue to deny allegation of the couple terming them a rogue couple, who has been harassing their landlady too. “The couple was lying and misbehaved with police on contrary when police spotted them in suspicious condition,” said police commissioner Ashok Rathore.
 
 This is the third case in past two months, when complaint against police atrocity and harassment has been made. Before this, one Sampat Mali had filed a complaint against an ASI and a driver of Sardarpura police station alleging police torture. The human rights commission had also intervened into the matter and sought report.
 
 Before this, a hotel owner had also complained against Rajiv Gandhi Nagar police station of threatening him, if he did not arrange food for them. Allegations of misbehavior with the hostel guests were also made against police.
 
 
