There is a lot of buzz around Solo that sees   playing the lead role, which is directed by  . Beside the lead actors, there are several supporting actors who are also part of the film. One among them is  , who is making his south debut with the film. The Delhi lad was first seen in Band Baaja Baaraat in 2010. 

 Talking about his role in the movie, he says, “There are four stories and I appear in the last one. There is a love triangle among Neha, Dulquer and I. My role is that of an ACP in the film, who was a boxer during his college days. This one has a very strong story and lots of twists.” 
 
 As for learning new languages — Tamil and Malayalam, Manit is of the opinion that he has a unique connection with the south. He says, “I have visited Chennai and  , a couple of times and I believe that I have a strange familiarity with this place. So, I was comfortable.” 
 
 Some of my dialogues in the movie are in English. Also, others on the set also helped me. They would prompt each time I had to say my dialogues. But later, I got a hang of it and dubbed my portions as well,” shares Manit, who is a trained actor. 
 
 This is not the first time Manit and Bejoy are working together. The duo had earlier worked on Rush, a show that aired on MTV. He says, “Working with Bejoy is like coming back home. I have spent quite some time with him and I respect him a lot as a filmmaker. We wanted to work together previously, but somehow that didn’t materialise. But I am glad I got this part in Solo.” 
 
 It was entirely new experience for Manit to work with Dulquer. Though they didn’t know each other well, when they did, they got along like a house on fire. Sharing his experience, Manit says, “I never knew who Dulquer was and hadn’t watched his films. But I apologised to him as soon as I met him. Bejoy introduced us to each other. He is a very professional and humble guy. In fact, I am very choosy about the people I hang out with, but we got along really well because we share the same interest in motorcycles. So, it gave us a lot of time to talk about road trips and more.” 
 
 Manit started his journey with theatre and moved on to modelling, before movies happened. “Back then, modelling was a passport to entering  . I always wanted to be an actor and I think in the past 10 years, acting has changed me a lot as a person. I not only get to learn from the actors, directors I work with, but even the characters I play have helped me learn a lot,” he signs off. 
 
