MUMBAI: With a month to go for the civic elections, chief minister   launched 500 Wi-Fi-enabled spots across the city and asked users to send in feedback of their browsing experience. 

 Fadnavis took to Twitter on Monday to announce the launch of these   spots as “there was no time for a formal inauguration ceremony,” said a state government official. He tweeted: “#MumbaiWifi is India’s largest   service & one of the largest globally too.”
 
 Officials say the Wi-Fi will be free till January-end and thereafter, citizens will be charged for more than 100MB or 30 minutes usage. Rates will be “competitive” at around Rs 28 to Rs 30 per 100MB and the speed, 20Mbps.
 
 Political watchers say this service has been launched to influence the youth in view of the upcoming elections. The election code of conduct is expected to come into force any time now.
 
 TOI visited Mantralaya, Churchgate junction and K C College on Monday and found the Wi-Fi was indeed getting connected, but only after multiple attempts at registration and activation. Since the state government has asked users to give their feedback on Twitter, using the handle AS_Mum_Wifi, many respondents complained of registration problems. 
 
 While some said the Wi-Fi did not connect at the spots mentioned in the list, others said they did not know the exact locations in the first place. They were asked on the Twitter handle to revert with their locations and mobile numbers, which they were not comfortable with.
 
 “The government should have at least put up boards on the spots or put out the list of spots. Currently, no one knows where to look,” said   of Mulund. 
 
 Phase II of the exercise, expected to begin in February, will see 700 spots, including schools, colleges and hospitals, get connected. This phase is expected to be completed by May 1. 
 
 “We want to have some spots for quality use where people use the network for work. It could have a better speed and the charges could be on a higher side. We are confident that people will be ready to pay a little extra for good quality Wi-Fi,” said a state government official.
 
 
