Cleared/Anil Salem: A painter admitted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here with severe injuries sustained in a fall allegedly died of medical negligence on the part of the duty nurse(s), who refused to attend to the patient citing work overload. The issue came to light after a video showing a staff nurse refusing to examine the patient, not aware that he had already succumbed to his injuries, went viral on WhatsApp and Facebook on Monday. Following this, the government hospital dean has ordered an inquiry into the incident. According to police, V Chandran, 38, of Shevapet here, on Friday fell down from atop a building at Hosur in Krishnagiri district while painting the same and sustained grave injuries. Other workers at the site immediately rushed him to the government hospital in Hosur where doctors gave him first aid referred him to Krishnagiri government hospital. As Chandran’s health condition deteriorated, on Saturday early morning doctors at Krishnagiri government hospital referred him to the Salem government hospital, where doctors put him in septic ward as the patient wasn’t accompanied by any of his family member or relative at the time of admission. When alerted, Chandran’s relatives reached the Salem government hospital late on Sunday night and found him in an unconscious condition in the ward. They immediately asked a staff nurse to examine Chandran, but she refused. “The nurse told us that she can’t take care of each patient as she had to take care of eight wards at night,” said K Suresh, kin of the deceased. Chandran’s relatives recorded the scene on their mobile phone and shared it on WhatsApp and Facebook. When the hospital authorities saw the video, the body was sent for autopsy and later handed it over to the relatives. The hospital dean, Dr Kanagaraj, has ordered for a detailed departmental inquiry into the incident. “We will probe whether Chandran died because of negligence on the part of the nurses,” he said. The dean also denied the claims of the staff nurse that she was incharge of eight wards. “She was taking care of just two wards,” Kanagaraj said and assured stern action against doctor /nurses if found guilty.