NAGPUR: Based on TOI’s report on   being sold in chilled cans, a petition has been filed in the Pune bench of   (NGT) seeking closure of all units across the state that are selling water in chilled jars and cans, and posing serious threat to human health.

 On September 6, 2016, TOI after visiting six such units in the city, had exposed the unhygienic conditions in which the units were operating. They also did not have the mandatory licenses from Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) and Food Safety and   (FSSAI).
 
 Two petitioners —   and Dattatraya Bharne — are from Pune while the third — Santosh Sinha — is from Nagpur. They have moved the case through counsels Asim Sarode and  .
 
 The   (MPCB), state government, ministry of health and family welfare, commissioner of Food and Drug Authority (FDA), commissioners of Nagpur and Pune Municipal Corporations, water sanitation department and regional director of Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) have been made the respondents. The matter is expected to come up for hearing next week.
 
 Extensively quoting TOI’s report, the petition states that the water sold in unpackaged and unsealed chilled jars and cans is not potable and hazardous to health. Though the unit owners claim that the water is RO and UV treated, no regular monitoring is being done. 
 
 “The water is drawn from unhygienic sources like bore-well and can contain various impurities and fungal growth. No permission is taken from CGWA for withdrawing groundwater,” the petitioners said. 
 
 The petitioners have also pointed out that there are no set of rules for units supplying unpackaged drinking water, most of which are operating in unhygienic conditions. While some units operate close to a sewage line, others are in the low-lying areas in dingy basements. “Unlike water packaging units, these do not have a separate laboratory, raw water storage facility, packing areas, entry points or loading and unloading points,” the petitioners said.
 
 Though the business of manufacturing unpackaged drinking water has found a good place in the market, experts had warned that consuming untreated water can cause diseases like typhoid, diarrhoea, hepatitis, cholera, jaundice and other viral infections. “Regular consumption of contaminated water can have long-term side effects on human health. Presence of fluoride can lead to fluorosis,” the petitioners added.
 
 The ministry of health and family welfare, through a notification issued on November 15, 2016, had made it mandatory to sell packaged drinking water in sealed containers. Following this, FDA commissioner issued directives to inspect all such units in the state. FDA’s Nagpur division has issued closure notices to seven units of Vidarbha earlier this week. 
 
