New Delhi: Come June 5 and five central Delhi localities under   will be declared as zero-waste  . The main idea is to recycle and reuse the household trash on a daily basis. 

 Under this project, the 3,000-odd families of these colonies have been trained to segregate dry and wet waste. The dry trash fetches money to sanitation workers, who sell it for reuse while the wet waste is used to make compost and maintain the greenery in the colonies. 
 
 So far, NDMC has received a positive response from residents to its appeal to turn Golf Links, Jor Bagh, Kaka Nagar, Bharti Nagar and Ravinder Nagar into model colonies ahead of the World Environment Day.
 
 Even the children have joined the initiative. Class X student Arav Divangan, a resident of Ravinder Nagar, said, “I do not mix wet and dry garbage anymore. Everybody in my family keeps them in separate bins.” 
 
 For Sunil Kumar, an NDMC sanitation worker, the change of habit among people is no less than a surprise. “I never thought people would be so much conscious about waste,” Kumar told TOI.
 
 Sustained awareness campaign since April has helped NDMC implement this eco-friendly, waste management plan in the five colonies. 
 
 NGOs Chintan and   are partnering with the civic body to make it a reality. “Our sanitation workers sell the dry waste to recycling agencies and earn money. It is the only source of income for them,” said Akshara Abhimanyu, who periodically trains the sanitation workers. 
 
 Shakuntala Srivastava, an NDMC official, said people were taking a keen interest in the waste segregation process. “Involvement of experts from NGOs workers as well as our sanitation workers has made it possible. Even people in Chanakyapuri and Pandara Road have shown interest in our project,” she added.
 
 Initially, NDMC and the NGOs distributed blue and green packets among some households to keep dry and wet waste. Later, families themselves bought different trash bins for this purpose. The containers are emptied by the sanitation workers every morning. NDMC tippers take the wet waste to the compost pits. 
 
 “In each of the five colonies, we dug up pits for making compost out of wet waste. The compost is used in gardens,” said Srivastava.
 
  Naresh Kumar said the way the colonies were responding to the initiative was quite encouraging. “We have planned to increase the motivation level both among the sanitation workers and residents. In the next phase, we will expand the campaign to more colonies,” he added. 
 
 Sustainability is critical to the success of this plan. “These colonies have to sustain this drive without our monitoring,” said an NDMC official.
 
 The NDMC chairman will administer a pledge to RWA members and students on May 13 to make this effort a mega success.
 
