Thrissur: In a refreshing initiative, a group of theatre activists here conducted a workshop on theatre for elderly people, as part of the efforts to explore the possibilities of theatre in geriatric care. 

 An initiative of   theatre group, it can be considered as the first structured theatre workshop for taping the potential of the aged in the state.
 
 Earlier too, a similar camp was conducted by Abhinaya Theatre Research Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, and the group of elderly people had produced a play .
 
 “But it was more of an informal camp. The four-day workshop at Kiraloor in Thrissur was more organized and delved into the links between theatre and old age issues,“ said D Reghoothaman, head of Abhinaya. He was also the director of the camp that con cluded on Sunday .
 
 Actor  , who provided inputs on psychological aspects of theatre at the workshop, said “Theatre provides immense opportunities to participants to take a look at their own personalities from a distance. The workshop had classes on aspects like transactional analyses and introspection,“ he said.
 
 Welcoming the initiative, Dr K S Shaji, head of the psychiatry department of Thris sur Medical College Hospital said, “Theatre demands the performer to step into the shoes of another person, and this in turn helps him or her look inwards, shedding several preconceived notions. Art acts as a form of sensory stimulus and improves the cognitive and interpersonal skills.“
 
 The response to the camp was amazing, says M   of Natakasauhridam, which organised the workshop in collaboration with NGO Thanal. “About 225 people had applied for the workshop from different parts of the state. We got application from Mumbai as well, but we could accommodate only 23, “ he said.
 
 “My happiness is beyond words. It helped me to speed up my efforts to re-establish the connect with inner core of Kerala society, '' said 69-year-old Aboobacker from  , a   returnee. For retired music professor K S Anantharaman, the workshop was an energy booster.
 
 Interestingly , some of the fundamental issues of theatre were discussed at the workshop. “For instance, the participants raised the issue of how far actor has to identify with character. It was also challenging to get the elderly people with very strong opinions to work together in a creative venture. The workshop has opened a tiny window to the vast world of creativity for them, “ said theatre personality Raju Narippatta.
 
