BENGALURU: If FM  's last two Budgets were about giving evaders a chance to come clean by paying  , his fourth Budget has focused on introducing measures to squeeze unaccounted money and discourage the use of cash across the   a ban on   of over Rs 3 lakh to restricting tax deductions if you make cash donations to  .

 In addition, the Centre will launch an offensive against those who have fled the country by arming itself with legal powers to confiscate assets of persons such as Vijay Mallya, Lalit Modi or even Dawood Ibrahim. Although Jaitley promised constitutional safeguards against potential misuse, it is not clear if the law will apply retrospectively. z In line with the recommendations of the Supreme Courtappointed Special Investigation Team on black money, the government proposes to bar cash payments of over Rs 3 lakh to a person in a day.
 
 The limit will apply to single transactions, say purchase of a high-end watch or jewellery, or an event, such as payments to a wedding planner or property broker. For any breach, the penalty will be equal to the value of the payment, unless it can be proved that there were “good and sufficient reasons“ for the cash transaction. The government has also opted to go with the recommendations of the Supreme Court-appointed Special Investigation Team on black money and barred cash payments of over Rs 3 lakh to a person in a day . The limit will apply to single transaction, for example purchase of a high-end watch or jewellery , or an event, such as payments to a wedding planner or property broker.
 
 For any breach, the penalty will be equal to the value of the payment, unless it can be proved that there is “good and suf-ficient reasons“ for the cash transaction.
 
 There is disincentive for professionals and businessmen receiving cash payments beyond Rs 10,000. Similarly , there is disincentive for businesses to pay in cash for purchase of plant and machinery or other capital expenditure as it intends to disallow depreciation benefits.
 
 The FM has also proposed to withdraw tax deduction for cash donations of over Rs 10,000 to charitable institutions. Authorities will also be given powers to conduct surveys on premises where “activity for charitable purpose“ is going on.
 
