MYSURU: A wrestling competition being organised in the city will see veterans of the sport – retired and senior   – retrace their steps back to the ring. In what is being touted as the first-of-its-kind wrestling event in the country, the competition will see noted wrestlers of yore indulging in hand-to-hand combat.

 The competition will see 82 senior wrestlers, aged between 40 and 70, go toe to toe, reviving memories of their heydays.
 
 The idea to host such an event was suggested by wrestlers belonging to various garadi manes (traditional wrestling houses) across the city. Pailwan Chokkamurthy of Ashokapuram took the lead in organising the in organising the competition under the concept, ‘Hiriya kusthi patugala nade marali garadi mane kade (senior wrestlers return to the wrestling house)’.
 
 A few years ago, wrestlers in Punjab had conducted a wrestling competition for  , however the upper age limit for participants was capped at 60.
 
 The biggest challenge for the organisers of the Mysuru competition was to identify, and subsequently send out invitations to senior and retired wrestlers from all the states.
 
 “We decided to organise this event a year ago. We looked at wrestlers from across the country who had won medals at state and national levels. We also got hold of senior wrestlers who are currently working as referees, and through them we were able to contact others too,” Pailwan Kumar LS of Yelwala told TOI.
 
 He added that convincing the wrestlers, some of whom retired 30 years ago, had been difficult.
 
 The senior wrestlers, who agreed to participate in the event, have been exercising and preparing for the event for the past one year. At 67, Pailwan   will be the oldest wrestler at the competition. Pailwan Sampat from Bengaluru, Pailwan Govindharaju Ningro, Pailwan Nagesh from Gundlupet, Pailwan Kalashetty from Goluru are the other wrestlers past 60, who will be seen at the event.
 
 “The competition will be held at the D Devaraja Urs stadium on February 12. The winners will be awarded a cash prize, certificate and a wrist watch,” said pailwan Surendra, one of the organisers.
 
 As many as 24 wrestlers including world international champion RR Matapathi from Belagavi will be feted at the competition.
 
 Prominent names at competition
 
 Tiger Balaji from Bhoothappana Garadi in Mysuru, Pailwan ‘Minchina Malla’ Mukunda from Palahalli Horithimmegowdara Garadi, Pailwan Tiger Marichenna from Ramanahalli, pailwan Raju Chethy from Athani, Pailwan Naresh Kumar from Haryana, Pailwan Jinjar Patil from Maharashtra are among the champions who will be seen in action at the competition.
 
 
