NAGPUR: If all goes well, Orange City will, for the first time, play host to a Senior National   Championship early next year.

 The president of   (MBA)   said on Wednesday that the state association has officially made a bid for the prestigious tournament to   (BAI) and waiting for the approval from the national governing body of badminton.
 
 “The MBA has sent an official letter to the BAI president Akhilesh Dasgupta a couple of days ago. We are finally bidding for it and keen to have it in Maharashtra. I also had a talk with BAI president when we last met and told him our desire to host the Senior Nationals,” Lakhani told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 According to sources, the MBA bid has reached the BAI office. The annual general meeting of BAI will be held on March 5 at New Delhi. During the AGM, the BAI will announce its decision about the venue of the next Nationals.
 
 Maharashtra did not host Senior Nationals in the last two decades. The last time the state had organized Senior Nationals was in 1996 at Pune. The 81st Senior Nationals was held last week at Patna and if BAI approves the MBA bid, then Maharashtra will hold the 82nd Nationals in January, 2018.
 
 “We are quite hopeful of getting the formal approval from the BAI next month. If we win the bid, then we have four cities where we can hold the Nationals. Besides Nagpur, Aurangabad, Nashik and Pune are the cities where we have the necessary facilities to conduct the mega event.
 
 “Before we zero in on any particular city, logistics factor will be taken into consideration. In Nagpur, we have Divisional Sports Complex at Mankapur where we have ten courts and plenty of seats for spectators,” said Lakhani.
 
 Meanwhile, the   (NDBA) has written a letter to the MBA, conveying their decision to hold the Nationals for the first time in Nagpur. “We have received a letter from the   and it was discussed in our meeting held on January 22 at Mumbai. If MBA wins the bid, then Nagpur will definitely has chance to host the tournament. To host the Nationals, expenses of around Rs one crore is needed,” said MBA secretary SA Shetty from Mumbai.
 
 Confirming the development, NDBA president Kunda Vijaykar said they have already communicated to MBA. “We are ready to host the Senior Nationals in January 2018 under the auspices of MBA. President of MBA Arun Lakhani is from Nagpur and we are quite hopeful that we will get the honour to hold the premier national tournament for the first time in Nagpur,” said Vijaykar.
 
