Chennai: Can you expect your employer to pay for your insurance? Well going forward you might have to pay 25-50%, even as your employer chips in the remainder. Earlier, large corporate employers paid 100% for their employee benefits and social security needs — but with rising costs, employee-contribution policies might become more the norm, said industry experts, adding annual renewals with insurers have indicated a clear shift in this regard. Employer provided health insurance, accounts for 48% of total health premiums and covers about 5.7 crore individuals in India. While this covers fewer individuals that government sponsored schemes at 27.33 crore, it is still much higher than individual retail policies that covers 2.87 crore lives — showing that a large number of middle-class, salaried families in India look to their group mediclaim for health protection. “Sometimes, corporates gives employees coverage only for self, spouse and children. If they want additional coverage for their parents they will have to pay for it themselves. Or say the sum insured is Rs 2 lakh, but the employee feels he needs higher protection of Rs 5 lakh — he will have to pay the balance to make up. Some companies offer top-up policies for additional coverage, more diseases, more conditions, no cap on room rent, OPD coverage, etc,” said a United India senior executive. So why have corporates started asking employees also to chip in? “For most corporates, the attitude is still the cheaper the better. Instead of looking at quality of the offering, services provided, many a time the deciding factor in buying group health is just the cost. So in the drive to lower costs, it is not entirely suprising the increasing shift towards co-payer policies,” said Dr Prakash, executive director, Star Health. A recent survey by Bajaj Allianz General Insurance shows 78% of organisations view ‘cost’ as the most critical deciding factor in buying group mediclaim. An additional 15% make the decision based on the insurance providers’ service capabilities, while for 7% the decision is based on the opinions of senior management or board of directors. The survey also found that as many as 40% companies do not offer covers for parents and dependents and 50% did not want to spend on wellness and healthcare plans, including free medical check-ups. “Growing health care costs, lifestyle diseases and parental claims are pinching their group health insurance budgets. Consequently organisations are witnessing year-on-year increase in claims under their employee benefits portfolio. 38% organisations claimed that they are witnessing a 30-40% rise in claims every year,” said Abhijeet Ghosh, head-health insurance at Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co Ltd.  Another reason, why co-payer policies are becoming more prevalent is the high losses this sector has been making. Loss ratios in group health have increased to as high as 120% in 2015-16, from 116% in 2014-15 and 100% in 2011-12. Losses in group health are also heavier than in government-sponsored schemes at 109% and individual retail at 77%.“Group health has increasingly becoming a loss-making proposition. Rates now have hit rock-bottom because of severe competition and gross under-cutting of rates. Now, severely slashing rates might get you new business, but will affect the quality of services offered, claims, etc,” said Puneet Sahni, head, product development, SBI General Insurance Co.