HYDERABAD: Before she turned 18,   learnt lessons which would last her a life time.Looked down upon by her brother for being a woman, and  , she always had a tough life. But if this was not enough, a   at her house when she was just 15 years left her  .

 Though the accident happened years back, the scars on her face, and all over her body , are grim reminders of that dreadful day . Fourteen surgeries spanning almost 14 years, have been an ordeal she has had to bear, stoically, and "all alone.
 
 After all her struggles, Now 34 years, she is the definition of a survivor. Interacting with media on Wednesday during a round table meeting on challenges faced by burn victims, Pushpa was strong and self-assured.“I don't hide my face by covering it unless the other person is uncomfortable,“ she said. Speaking about how she got the courgae to face her situation, she said, “I wasn't always like this. After my father died five to six years ago there was no one to take care of me. I was in hospital for long periods of time. I gathered courage to go for treatments all alone.“ For each   , she had to be in hospital for three to six months, she said.
 
 With an aged mother and no other family willing to help, Pushpa, who is from Ghatkesar, knew she had to earn for herself. She took to tailoring to stand on her own feet. “Gandhi Hospital staff supported me all these years. They allow me stitch their dresses. I make about Rs 10,000,“ she said. But her health has not held up. “Sometime back I developed a problem with my legs and I have slowed down,“ she said highlighting another setback. “It will be helpful if I get some support from government too,“ she said.
 
 She still needs to get her ear ear lobes restored and suffers from minor ailments “I need another Rs 4 lakh for treatment, but there is no provision for me or schemes available,“ she said.
 
 According to Dr Mohan Krishna, former head of department at Gandhi Hospital “policies doesn't consider burn victims as `disabled people' and there is no continuous support after the treatment. “Burns survivors need sustained support as the families abandon them mostly ,“ he said.
 
 
