HYDERABAD: The   is being weighed down by  , often by children or youngsters harassing the staff. Only about four out of every 10 calls to the state-funded   (EMRI) or 108 are “effective“. Operators get calls for queries on everything from gas connection to suicide. A whopping 46,49,025 “ineffective“ non-emergency calls were made to 108 in 2016, with children contributing 10%.

 Data available with EMRI shows that out of average 12,737callsday, 62% are “ineffective“ calls with a spurt between February-May , mainly due to school holidays. “Most parents let their children use their smart phones. It's most ly children between 7-10 years who call up the toll-free number as it's easy to dial,“ EMRI manager (Telangana)   said.
 
 Most calls are from semiurban areas or small towns and not from Hyderabad or rural areas. With such calls clogging lines, EMRI officials are at their wit's end. “We are now undertaking an awareness programmes for children in schools. We also want parents to sensitise children about the seriousness of making such calls,“ an EMRI official said.
 
 EMRI has now upgraded its system to automatically block people making prank calls more than 10 times a day. “They won't be able to call us till we unblock them,“ said an official.
 
 Apart from children there are those who call up repeatedly to harass or tease female staff. Besides these calls, “ineffective“ calls include cases where the caller is silent or abusive, calls not connected due to poor signals and wrong numbers. “The call centre with 90 lines and about 40 operators on every shift receives more than 1,000 calls hour from across the state.Operators have less than 1.5 minutes to collect information on injury , place of accident or address of the victim and symptoms from callers.The `ineffective' calls are a big problem and it's getting worse.“ When not calling for emergencies, many seek information on gas connections or how to apply for a revenue certificate or even breaking news! Some even wanted to know when power supply will be resumed in their areas. Many non-emergency calls, EMRI officials said are made due to frustration.
 
 “Sometimes teens contemplating suicide call us. We can't ignore them,“ said call centre manager  .“It's important for the receiver not to dismiss these calls.Such calls have to be transferred to another number, 104, where professional counsellors take over,“ he said.
 
