AMRAVATI: In a major threat to state home minister  , who is seeking re-election from   constituency, one of the contestants and Patil’s arch rival Prashant P Kate has filed an application under section 340 of Cr.P.C. with Amravati Collector and District Election Officer, seeking inquiry and action against Patil for alleged criminal offences committed by him.

 Fearing an election petition by Kate in the High Court, Patil has also filed a caveat in the High Court. The caveat was filed on January 19 last itself.
 
 Kate, who has been exposing Patil’s alleged ‘fradulant’ deeds ever since his election in 2010, has taken strong exception to the information furnished by Patil in his nomination affidavit regarding his movable and immovable properties and claimed that they are false, wrong and misleading.
 
 Kate has alleged in his application that Patil is the director of Pyoshni Agro Pvt. Ltd, which is registered/ incorporated under the Companies Act 1956 and has corporate identity number: U01403MH2008PTC185056. He alleged that Patil holds a share capital of Rs. 60,000 in this company but has not submitted the information of above share investment in his nomination form. 
 
 Kate has further alleged that the details given by Patil about agricultural and non-agricultural land in his possession in the affidavit submitted by him in 2010 do not match with the affidavit submitted this time.
 
 Kate has further alleged that Patil has, in clause no. 6 of Annexure ‘F’ of the affidavit filed before returning officer on January 16 last, shown land bearing Gut No. 79/4 (old 79/3) to be situated at Mouje Bhaurad Tq. Dist. Akola. Kate claimed that the 7/12 extract of Gut no. 79/4 area 2Ha. 2R., which stands in the name of Patil, is situated at Akola, Tq.Disatt. Akola. Kate alleged that Patil has suppressed the fact because the land Gut No. 79/4 is situated within the local limits of   and the market price of the admeasuring land is 2.00 crore per acre.
 
 Kate said that Patil has done unauthorized construction on his plot no 8/18 sheet no.64-C at Umari, Tq. Distt. Akola even though Akola civic body did not given him permission to do so. Kate alleged that Patil incurred an expenditure of approx. 15 lakhs and the present condition of the construction work is up to plinth level and columns are erected for the construction of building.
 
 
