From her supporting role in 'Delhi 6' to playing filmmaker  's muse in 'Kaatru Veliyidai',   has come a long way. The  , who is working with some of the biggest directors in the film industry, said she is proud that she has come this far without any backing. 

  
  
 "I came from nowhere and it has been baby steps. I don't have that kind of backing but I never crib about it. I always feel blessed because so many people have taken me under their wings, nurtured me and made me a part of their vision," Aditi said. 
 
 The 30-year-old actress said it is hard to sustain in films but self-belief is her driving force. "The wishes that I made, the dreams that I dreamt, I did realise them. It is definitely a struggle. Getting work is not tough but to work with people I always wanted to is difficult," she said. 
 
 Her next   release is 'Bhoomi', directed by Omung Kumar. The movie is a father-daughter story and the actress plays the titular role. "It is my first title role. The film is about a father standing with his daughter. It is about men being together with women and empowering them. The experience has been soul- wrenching. The character has made me push my limits. I actually get attracted to such stuff," she said. 
 
 Post 'Bhoomi', Aditi will be seen in  's magnum opus 'Padmavati'. The actress said she is living her dream as she always wanted to work with filmmakers like Ratnam and Bhansali. 
 
 "I want somebody to push me and grill me and extract a performance out me which nobody expects. After Mani sir, it was Omung sir and now it is Sanjay sir. I am living my dream," she said. Both Bhansali and Ratnam are known as tough task masters, but Aditi believes getting out of one's comfort zone is important. 
 
 "I always wanted to work with Mani sir and Bhansali sir. I may be in an uncomfortable situation someway, but I don't consider it as I like being challenged. There is a great joy in it. These filmmakers nurture you and they are like a drug, you keep wanting to go back to them," she says. 
 
 Aditi said, she looks up to acting greats like Amitabh Bachchan to stay inspired. "I don't want to become a jaded person and I don't want to be complacent. I always want to feel this excitement and I hope I can. And when I see people like Mr Amitabh Bachchan, it drives me more," she said.
 
  
  
  
  
 
