GURUGRAM:  , an   in  , stands testimony to substandard infrastructure, poor planning and official apathy, underlining some serious problems that have made life difficult at city’s several residential societies.

 On Sunday, during a no-holds-barred interaction with a team of TOI, Spaze Privy residents spoke of their frustration over the absence of external development, and deficiency in services.
 
 “There are 450 families living in the society and 4,000 in the entire area, yet MCG has decided to make a plot in the vicinity a dumping zone for construction waste in a blatant violation of pollution norms,” said Vivek Agarwal. 
 
 A persistent haze of dust is making life difficult, especially for children and elderly, who often complain about breathing problems and suffer from respiratory ailments, he added.
 
 To make the situation worse, PWD has forgotten to repair a road, which was dug up in February, outside the society. “PWD officials said their machines had broken down, and hence they could not complete the road repair work. However, constant movement of vehicle stirs up dust,” said RK Okhandia.
 
 The residents had also approached state PWD minister Rao Narbir Singh in March to request for a speedy relief from the problem. The minister reportedly visited the spot and told the residents that the road would be repaired within next five months. “However, not a stone has moved on the ground,” Okhandia added.
 
 With the monsoon less than a couple of months away, the residents apprehend that the dug-up road would become a nightmare during the rains. 
 
 Despite all these, the residents are most worried about a revenue road, which connects a nearby village. It passes right through the society and carries all sorts of vehicles, including trucks, increasing chances of accidents. “It is not merely a constriction flaw but a serious safety concern. Imagine there is a road passing through the society and there are trucks moving on the road. We cannot send our kids alone even to play within the premises,” said Shristi Sanyal.
 
 Also, the residents alleged that even after three years, the society does not an occupancy certificate. 
 
 As if the above mentioned problems were not enough, authorities concerned have given permission to set up a liquor vend just outside the society — a cause for concerns for the women residents. However, despite problems galore, there is no one to hear out the residents. 
 
 “We have approached everyone, right from lower-rung officials to senior babus. We have written to  , but all in vain. The developer too has refused to do anything,” said Agarwal.
 
 Vikram Singh  , the facility maanager, Spaze Privy, said, “We had applied for the occupation certificate (OC) two years ago, and we have the acknowledgement from the department concerned. The department also issued us a letter stating the reasons for not issuing the OC, which has been shown to the RWA.” Regarding the revenue road, he rubbished the allegation levelled by the residents. “The revenue road was mentioned in all our brochures.”
 
 Dogra also alleged that the residents had stopped paying maintenance charges and RWA had been asked to check the records in this regard.
 
 MCG officials said they would look into the matter. “Construction waste does not cause pollution. However, if there is dust, we will definitely take action. Dumping of sewerage is definitely a violation, and we will take action against the same,” said a senior MCG official. 
 
 
