NEW DELHI: By Saturday evening, when it became clear that   had recorded a reasonable voting percentage of about 70%, there was a sense of relief in   circles.

 And with Goa seeing a record turnout of 83%, AAP believes a vote for “change” will work to its advantage. The stakes are high for AAP, which contested its first state polls out of Delhi and is targeting states like Gujarat by the year-end. It fancies its prospects in Punjab where a win will increase its relevance in national politics. A strong showing in Goa will help, particularly if it ends up holding the balance of power in its hands.
 
 Its chances are clearly brighter in Punjab where there is strong anti-incumbency against the ruling SAD and Congress seems hampered by its weakness at the central level. The result of these elections is also expected to affect the atmospherics of the upcoming municipal polls in Delhi where AAP will be facing BJP and Congress in a triangular contest.
 
 AAP believes that like in Delhi, where it snatched a substantial part of Congress’s “poor” vote bank to propel itself to a big win, it can checkmate Congress in similar fashion in Punjab by being the principle beneficiary of perceived voter anger against 10 years of Akali-BJP rule.
 
 Responding to   chief Captain Amarinder Singh’s allegations that AAP convener   was dabbling dangerously with radicalism after he spent a night at the residence of Jaswinder Singh Ghali, an alleged leader of the Khalistan Commando Force, a senior AAP member said the issue will not hurt the party. He argued that Congress’s Hindu vote has remained largely intact and for the rest, the issue is not a deterrent.
 
 If AAP fails to succeed even when Congress has lost traction in most states and SAD is facing major anti-incumbency, its plans to expand as a national party will receive a big setback and it will be again relegated to a Delhi party controlling a “half-state”.
 
 In Goa, AAP claims it is locked in a stiff battle with BJP on several seats. “Goa has voted for change and there is a major backlash against BJP,” said Ashish Talwar, AAP’s Goa campaign in-charge. But AAP may find it difficult to make headway while dividing some of the anti-incumbency against BJP.
 
 
