VISAKHAPATNAM: East Point Colony falling under ward number 17 of the Greater   (GVMC) and   continues to have major civic issues. There are nearly 300 households in the locality which is surrounded by the  ,   and Pedawaltair.

 East Point Colony is popularly known as 'East Shirdi' due to the existence of a Shirdi Sai temple in the vicinity which is visited by thousands of devotees every day. However, there has been no effort on the part of the civic authorities to keep the surroundings as well the entire locality clean. The roads are in a bad shape, the drainage canals need extensive cleaning and the dustbins are rarely cleared.
 According to senior residents of the colony, the area was a tiny fisherfolk village close to the beach in the 1950s. The residents used to sell goods imported from Somalia. Subsequently, the area was taken over by the Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (Vuda) and transformed into East Point Colony in the 1990s.
 
 P Srinivasa Rao, a local businessman, said, "There is no proper drainage system in the colony. It is the main drawback of the locality. We brought the issue to the notice of local civic officials many times, but there been no development so far."
 
 "Former GVMC commissioner Pravin Kumar and present chief M Hari Narayanan hardly visited our area. I read in newspapers that the civic chiefs visit various areas daily. I request the commissioner to visit our area also to understand the ground reality," said K Radhika, a home maker.
 
 Another resident K Suresh said, "Stray cattle and dogs pose a threat in our area. Some people tie their cattle along the roads and the animals litter the drainage canals." He further added that a GVMC park in the area is in a shambles due to non-maintenance. "The park doesn't have benches and other recreational facilities for visitors, particularly children," Suresh added.
 
 When contacted, a senior GVMC officer said, "We will bring these issues to the notice of our higher-ups including the zonal commissioner. We carry out our regular duties at East Point Colony, but the cattle menace needs to be solved in the presence of local representatives."
 
