NAGPUR: The state   has issued a modified government resolution (GR) bringing into effect September 30 as the cut-off   for school admissions from 2017-18 academic session. TOI had reported that this was causing logistical problems for schools as some parents had confirmed admission based on the previous July 31 cut-off birth date and now find themselves eligible for an upgrade. Even though schools find themselves stuck in bureaucratic decisions, few have decided not to dock fees for students wishing to upgrade to the next eligible class.

 Radhika Rajwade, director of  , said, “We had decided to give provisional admissions based on July 31 deadline with plans to upgrade later when the date is changed. Since the ruling has come much sooner than expected, things have become manageable. Students in pre-nursery, who are eligible and wish to upgrade to KG-1, will have the right to exercise that option. They will not be penalized on account of non-refundable fee.” Other schools TOI spoke to also said that they would not let parents be inconvenienced.
 
 The new birth date cut-off will be applicable to all schools, regardless of the board they are affiliated to. 
 
 Shahid Sharif, founder of   was one of the early proponents of the idea to push the cut-off birth date back. Sharif said, “For almost two years, I have been writing to the state government to take action regarding this as many kids are forced to stay back for an entire year due to this. It is unrealistic to have a birth date cut-off at July 31 as our academic session starts just a month earlier. The latest decision is more practical and will help thousands of students in Nagpur region to enrol in school a year earlier.”
 
 Sharif added that many times children from extremely poor families get just one shot at education and if their parents are told about age cut-off being a deterrent, its human cost would be astronomical.
 
 Sharif said, “Due to RTE, government and NGOs are bringing kids from economically impoverished families to the school campus but many times their parents are looking for a reason not send them to school. They rather have an extra helping hand in the family than someone who goes to school and builds a future. If kids are turned away because of age criteria, and that too just for a month’s difference, the parent might never bring such a kid back.”
 
