New Delhi: “You cannot treat biochemists, anatomists as doctors. They’re not specialists,”   remarked on Wednesday after looking at the numbers of doctors in city hospitals provided by the state. Unimpressed with the number of doctors provided by the state, the   directed it to provide the court with the doctors-patients ratio in city hospitals.

 The direction by the bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar asking for data in relation to regular recruitment of doctors were made while hearing a plea concerning safety of doctors in state-run hospitals.
 
 The court had earlier taken suo motu cognisance of incidents of violence against doctors by patients or their kin, and asked the Centre and the   government to explain the steps they have been taken to counter it.
 
 On Wednesday, the court was given details of percentage increase in the number of doctors in city hospitals over the last few years. The court was, however, dissatisfied with the number, as it pointed out medical physicists and those in lab medicine departments could not be termed as specialists when doctor to patient ratio was in question.
 
 “We would like to know what is the doctor-patient ratio... The percentage increase,” said the bench besides remarking the sorry state of affairs as far recruitment of doctors in state-run hospitals was concerned. Referring to one such incident, the bench said that appointment of doctors for a particular designation in one such hospital happened after 12 years last year.
 
 Meanwhile, the bench praised the government doctors for their “hard work” and sympathised with them for not getting their due.
 
 The court had earlier cited a TOI report that highlighted how doctors at AIIMS were taking self-defence training and said that report would suggest one in two doctors in public hospitals face violence and that there has been an increase in such incidents. And it also appeared that the violence was not only verbal, but also physical.
 
 The court will hear the matter again on August 22.
 
