BHOPAL: Bharat Kumar Gehlot, a topper of the  , was left speechless at being rejected by the   — and not just because he stammers. His speech defect was branded a “disability”, leaving him neither in the general category for the   (BRO) post nor eligible for a job under the disabled quota.

 The 26-year-old has taken BRO to court. Even   has come out in his support. SSC-deputy director (MP Region) Ved Prakash Patwa wrote to BRO in 2015 that Gehlot’s candidature can’t be cancelled on the basis of systolic murmur or stammering.
 
 Gehlot, a topper from   in 2013, had applied for a job of junior engineer with BRO in 2014 and cleared the written test. “In the interview, I told the experts at the outset about my stammering. They welcomed my honesty and encouraged me, saying it wasn’t an impediment,” Bharat told TOI. He cleared the interview and appeared for the medical test, little knowing what was in store.
 
 “The medical report mentioned that I had systolic murmur and stammered. On this basis of this, my candidature was cancelled by the BRO,” said Bharat. “I challenged the medical report, pointing out that there was no rule to cancel my candidature due to stammering. They conducted three more medical tests and instead of resolving the issue, BRO gave me a final report calling stammering a ‘disability’,” he added.
 
 The last of the four medical tests was conducted in December 2016. A dejected Bharat told TOI that he should have been informed by the authorities at the outset that stammering could lead to his disqualification. “I hope you can understand the agony I am in ever since they rejected me, that too on a reason that leaves me nowhere,” he said. Bharat requested BRO to accept his candidature under ‘physically challenged’ category. “BRO did not agreed to that, either. Now, I am confused — am I a disabled or normal category candidate?” he remarked. 
 
 Talking to TOI on phone from the SSC regional office in Raipur, Patwa said, “I wrote to BRO mentioning that stammering can’t be a reason for cancelling his candidature as the guidelines in the advertisement did not mention anything on it. The SSC chairman is in touch with BRO on this issue.”
 
 
