PUNE/MUMBAI:  , who assaulted an   in New Delhi on Wednesday, left for his hometown Umarga in Osmanabad from Pune on Saturday, a source said.

 Family members of the MP said that he had not reached his hometown till late in the night. A close aide of Gaikwad said that the MP was travelling in a car from Pune and it would take eight to nine hours for him to reach Umarga.
 
 A Shiv Sena leader said that Gaikwad had been summoned to Matoshree on Friday by party chief Uddhav Thackeray, who had sought an explanation of the incident from him. However, Uddhav later cancelled the meeting to avoid media and further controversy.
 
 A source said that Uddhav had sent a message to Gaikwad, asking him to avoid coming to Matoshree till the matter cools down. He has also asked the MP to avoid the media, added the source. Gaikwad is likely to meet his supporters and address them in Umarga on Sunday. According to sources, the MP is reportedly afraid that his opponents within the Sena might take advantage of this opportunity and start a campaign against him though his supporters in his hometown continued to put up a massive show of strength on Sunday, defending his action.
 
 Following the Wednesday's AI incident, all airlines barred him from flights, forcing him to take the August Kranti Express on Friday evening to reach Mumbai. He reportedly got off at Vapi in Gujarat on Saturday morning and then headed to Pune.
 
 The MP, popularly known as `Ravi sir', did not respond to calls and text messages. His family members too avoided all calls from the media.
 
 Top Sena leaders too preferred to remain mum on action proposed against Gaikwad. A senior Sena leader, requesting anonymity, said that the party was divided on the matter. Some leaders wanted the party to stand by the MP, while others insisted on action against him, he added.
 
 
 
 
 The Delhi police on Saturday sought the video footage from Air India of Shiv   Ravindra Gaikwad abusing its staffer, R Sukumar, during which he had allegedly tried to push him off the plane's stepladder. 
 
