NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro’s Phase III will change the way people travel in the capital as the nerve centre of the network will shift from central Delhi to the south, with the radials of ridership centring on   and  .

 Scheduled to start operations this year, the maximum footfall in Phase III, according to Delhi Metro’s operational head Sharat Sharma, will be at the stations at Hauz Khas and INA Market. "Right now, the largest number of people goes through three of our interchange stations at Rajiv Chowk, Kashmere Gate andCentral Secretariat," said Sharma.
 
 The current footfall at Hauz Khas and INA — part of the HUDA City Centre-Samaypur Badli Yellow Line — is 34,493 and 31,649 respectively. After the new phase begins services, the projected ridership figure for these two stations will be 1,69,414 and 1,29,881, or more than a fourfold increase.
 
 In comparison, the current nerve centres of Rajiv Chowk, Kashmere Gate and Central Secretariat will see the crowds thinning. The present interchange passengers at Kashmere Gate of 2,77,207 will come down to 1,25,632 when Phase III starts — a reduction of more than 1 lakh passengers.
 
 "We estimate a similar cut in the number of passengers at Rajiv Chowk, where at present 4,43,439 passengers use the station as interchange point for trains," said Sharma, adding that exact number of interchange passengers after Phase III commencement was still being worked out. The estimates for Central Secretariat station are quite telling too: the current 1,88,509 interchange load will slide to 1,02,423.
 
 The reason for this drastic change in travel pattern, explained Sharma, was the addition of the two new corridors that parallel the Ring Road. "The radial of ridership will be the peripheral areas of Delhi, as more interchanges will come up. Currently, most people have to come to the centre of the city to interchange. Once Phase III become operational, this will not be necessary," said Sharma.
 
 This is primarily because Hauz Khas and INA will provide the most convenient interchanges for a large part of the Delhi   network. The Hauz Khas station falls on the Janakpuri (West)-Botanical Garden Magenta Line, while the INA station will be on the Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar Pink Line. 
 
 Both will connect to the Yellow Line, as well as provide connectivity to the Violet Line (Kashmere Gate to Faridabad). 
 
 The two new corridors will also enable connectivity with the Dwarka Sector 21-Noida/Vaishali Blue Line at Janakpuri (West) and Rajouri Garden.
 
 "The 38-km Janakpuri (West)-Botanical Garden stretch will be an alternative for commuters travelling between the same destinations as on the Blue Line," pointed out Sharma. 
 
 Similarly, Rajouri Garden, an interchange station on the Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar corridor, will allow commuters from the northern and western parts of the capital to reach Mayur Vihar or Anand Vihar
 
 without the need of going to Rajiv Chowk.
 
 
