The city is gearing up for some   fun on its streets and corners on   next month. The festival that celebrates the birth of Lord Krishna will see those forming   in a bid to break an earthen pot of curd. Last year, however, the   (SC) upheld the order of   that the height of human pyramids should not exceed 20 feet; it also stated that children below 18 years should not be allowed to participate in the festivities, keeping in mind the safety concerns of the Bal Govindas (this matter, which is pending, will be decided in August). The verdict received mixed reactions with several organisers voicing discontent on the same. A few more questions have been raised this year, too. The Bombay High Court has now asked the   government to clarify the grounds for classifying Dahi Handi an adventure sport in 2015.

 
 
  
  
 Mumbai’s Dahi Handi clubs feel that it entails risk and skill and should be classified as an adventure sport. Geeta Zagade, team leader of the Mahila Sports Club at Vile Parle, says, “In 2015, the government declared this as an adventure sport. We also feel it is one because when we climb up a mountain, that is considered a sport and carries a risk. Here too, we make a mount and climb it and it has a risk so why can’t it be called an adventure? We are 200-300 people who make the pyramid and bring it down systematically. Yes, a few injuries can happen, but on a mountain trek too, one or two can get injured, so why not here? Also, why are kids allowed to participate in swimming competitions and riding? That is also risky.” For now, they have made a few rules as to how the sport can be played. “Our mission is zero injuries, and our samiti (organisation) is ensuring that we do maximum practice so that there are next to nil injuries. We are hoping that the Supreme Court changes its outlook, too,” she adds.
  Surendra Panchal, vice-president of the Dahi Handi organisation at  , says, “Any sport does have an element of danger, not just Dahi Handi. For now, we are hoping to get a clearance on the verdict on August 1. Based on that, we will relook at the rules and regulations so that it is a win-win situation for all. We are anyway not allowing kids below 12 years — that has already been accepted by us.” 
  At Tadwadi, Mazgaon, Dahi Handi festival is also being looked at as an adventure sport. Says chief coach of the  , Arun Patil, “When we started Dahi Handi in 1984, it was a three-tier or four-tier pyramid, but there was no proper coach back then and there were more injuries. We realised that every year a few people do get injured, so we decided to practise more systematically. In 1985, we did five human tiers without a single fall. We got more confident and made a record of nine tiers in 2008, so yes, we do feel Dahi Handi is a tough skill and involves a lot of hard work. We wish the court would see it like this. The court has asked our samiti to give our safety precautions in writing. We are keeping a mat under the pyramid as well as harnesses for the top persons.” 
 
  
 
  
  
 Abhishek Surve, legal advisor for city Dahi Handi co-ordination committee, adds, “The High Court has asked it if it an adventure sport. Actually, the matter between the child’s age limit is pending in the apex (Supreme) Court. The final disposal of the SLP (Special Leave Petition) regarding height and age is still pending. Hearings are going on and the next hearing is on August 1. I want to say Dahi Handi is an adventure sport as when you climb up to a height without substantial support, there is an adventure in that and you need skill and courage for it. We want performers and organisers to take 100 safety measures for the human pyramid so percentage of injuries can be minimised.”
 
 
 As per a report, after the Bombay High Court laid down restrictions in its order in 2015, the state government issued a resolution on August 11, declaring Dahi Handi as an adventure sport. Referring to the resolution, Justice Jadhav recently said, “Is Dahi Handi an adventure sport? Are our orders being flouted under the garb of it being an adventure sport? How can minors take part in such adventure sports? Explain it to us.” The bench directed the government to respond to its queries and is said to have posted the matter for further hearing on August 1.
 
 
