BHUBANESWAR: The   collected money from gullible and also greedy investors in the state mainly in three ways - fixed deposits, recurring deposits and weekly/monthly collections - by promising astronomic returns between 2005 and 2012, the duped investors and police sources said. 

 The group, like most of other chit fund companies, adopted a chain-agents system in which the agent who collected money directly from depositors would get the maximum percentage while the cut would reduce for agents higher-up in the ladder. The investors were promised very high returns between 10 and 25%. 
 
 The commission agents were sponsored free trips to exotic holiday locations in different parts of the company. The money collected were ploughed into groups other business interest such real estate, tourism and films through the sister companies, said a police officer (Initially, the local police and crime branch probed the case before CBI took it over on the Supreme Court direction).
 
 Rose Valley boss   was planning to start a media company in Bhubaneswar in 2013-14. He was exploring various options, including tie-up with existing plyers here, the sources said. 
 
 Jayant Das, convenor of   (joint forum) of chit fund affected people, said in a smart move when the company faced SEBI and ED grill in 2012-13, it announced that the investors need not worry and asked them to deposit their maturity certificates with the company so that it could return their amounts. "In the process it destroyed evidence of deposits," Das said. The joint forum has at least 1000 members who were affected by Rose Valley apart from thousands affected by other such companies. 
 
 Starting from northern Odisha districts close to the   border, the group expanded to other coastal districts and western Odisha within five years with its network of agents. The group had mobilized money from at least 28 of the 30 districts in Odisha. Though a preliminary CBI charge-sheet said it collected around Rs 450 crore from the state, the joint forum said the group has collected at least Rs 1,000 crore. 
 
 
