PUNE: The city was abuzz with bike rallies, corner meetings, slogans and walks by candidates of various political parties before campaigning for the upcoming   drew to an end on Sunday evening.

 In their last-ditch attempt to woo voters, political parties organized huge rallies in almost every panel with supporters, including youth, women and even children, waving party flags and urging citizens to vote for their candidate.
 
 A candidate from the Shivajinagar area said he and his party have put in all their might to reach out to maximum voters over the last 13 days. “Everything lies in the hands of the voters now. We want maximum people to come out and vote,” the candidate said.
 
 As two-week of “nosey” campaigning came to an end, people heaved a sigh of relief even as some complained of traffic jams due to the rallies on Sunday.
 
 A tough contest in the offing
 
 The city is probably witnessing the closest contest this year as compared to the last three civic polls. While the ruling NCP is going all out to retain its grip over the   for for third consecutive time, it is facing a tough challenge from the BJP, which is riding on Modi wave and is sure of a major upset. 
 
 It is a litmus test for the BJP too considering the party has won all seats from the city for Lok Sabha and assembly polls. Also, the party is no more in pact with the Shiv Sena here. However downplaying all these factors, BJP’s senior leader and guardian minister Girish Bapat has remained confident about party’s win in the civic polls. “Our party will win both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal polls with a complete majority. People here are not in the mood to vote for the NCP that has not done anything for the development of both cities over the last 10 years. The BJP, in its last two-and-a-half years in the state, has pushed ahead all major development projects for both the cities,” Bapat said.
 
 The NCP and the Congress too exuded confidence to retain power in PMC. “We have been demanding votes on the development works that have been done in the city. We will secure a majority,” Vandana Chavan, city unit chief of NCP, said.
 
 Congress’s city unit president Ramesh Bagwe said his party will perform better in the polls this time around. “Citizens have given answer to the BJP by not showing up to CM’s rally. They will now stand behind the Congress and the NCP that have been running agenda of inclusive growth,” Bagwe said.
 
 Meanwhile, Sena leaders, who targeted BJP in its entire campaign, said on Sunday that “the voters will prefer Sena over the BJP”.
 
