GURUGRAM: A majority of the 322 entities in possession of land at   that MCG claims ownership of have got a stay from the   civil court on eviction notices served by the civic body earlier this month. 

 Some of the them have also simultaneously approached the Punjab and   high court, urging it to settle the ownership question. 
 
 The legal moves concern 464 acres of land in Gwalpahari, off Gurgaon-Faridabad road, whose ownership has been the subject of a nearly four-decades-long tussle between the government and private entities with a slew of contradictory orders passed by several Gurgaon deputy commissioners only adding to the tangle. The orders came even as the land battle moved from court to court over the years. 
 
 Prominent among those who have approached the high court is   and Developers, who had also approached YS Malik, the former financial commissioner (revenue), alleging that the mutation (number 3114) in its name in 2012 was fraudulently changed and entered in the name of MCG (mutation number 3110) a month later. Malik had mentioned in his order the recreation of mutation numbers was a serious fraud.
 
 According to district officials, while the civil court will hear matters related to the title and ownership of the Gwalpahari land, the high court will hear matters related to mutation.
 
 A senior district administration official said, “The Sohna civil court has already granted a stay to majority of the owners and has refrained the MCG from evicting them. The high court too has accepted the plea of those owners who have approached it, seeking that the mutation that is presently in the name of MCG should be revoked. The matter will come up for hearing on March 28 and it will deal with this matter.”
 
 The 464 acres, in official records, are referred to as Mutation No. 610. On July 2, 2012, a new mutation was done to recognise the MCG’s ownership over a significant portion of the land. This new mutation was referred to as 3110. Following Malik’s order, on December 1, 2015, mutation 3110 was cancelled and the land given back to private entities. Additional civil judge   of Sohna civil court, on December 17, 2015, while hearing a related case, said till the time the case was decided, district revenue officials cannot interfere in possession or alter the revenue records without following due process of law. Despite this, on December 18, 2015, mutation 3249 was once again entered in the name of MCG.
 
 Admin head to hear case today
 
 Divisional commissioner D Suresh will conduct a hearing on the controversial mutation based on which the MCG is claiming ownership of 464 acres of land in Gwalpahari. 
 
 Last month, the MCG had managed to get a stay from the divisional commissioner on an order passed by former Gurgaon deputy commissioner TL Satyaprakash on January 2, which said mutation 3249 in favour of MCG was entered in contravention of orders passed by two pevious financial commissioners revenue (FCR). 
 
 MCG feared this would clear the decks for all 322 entities who are in possession of the land to claim ownership and rushed to get a stay. Satyaprakash had been asked by chief secretary DS Dhesi and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to find out whether mutation 3249 was entered in violation of the FCRs’ orders or not.
 
 The ruling of the divisional commissioner will, however, not have much of a bearing on the case as a majority of the 322 entities have already managed to get a stay from the Sohna civil court against eviction notices served to them by the MCG.tnn
 
 
