JAIPUR: State agriculture minister   and agriculture experts differ on introduction of genetically modified (GM) mustard. While Saini stands for   free mustard, experts argue that   is the way forward to increase productivity and income of the farmers.

 The differences cropped up at SEA Rapeseed-mustard conclave held at a city hotel Saturday. While inaugurating the conclave Saturday Prabhulal Saini called for GM free mustard crop.
 
 The minister said oil content of traditional mustard variety seed is 40-42 % and exhorted scientists to develop variety of mustard which has more oil content but Saini said he is not in favour of genetically modified ones.
 
 However, agriculture experts and industry differed with the minister. Dr Deepak Pental of Centre for Genetic Manipulation of Crop Plants, University of Delhi, in his discussion on ‘GM Mustard Seed-Pros and Cons’, said “ It is unfortunate that while Europe produce about 80 % of their mustard oil from GM mustard followed by China and Canada about 70 %, we are still debating about it.”
 
 He said these technologies have been adapted by other countries almost 20 years ago and we are debating it now. He called for high breed variety resistant to disease built in to the seed.
 
 Bhagirath Chaudhary, founder director of M/s South Asia Bio Technology Centre (NGO) New Delhi, said India is largest importer of edible oil including mustard. “The irony is while it imports 15 million tones mustard oil from countries which produces its oil from genetically modified varieties, still we are not allowing this variety to farmers in the country which would have reduced our dependence on imports of edible oil.” He said it is impossible to increase production without genetic improvement.
 
 Denying breakthrough technology to famers is an injustice to them as wells the countr, said Chaudhary.
 
 Vijay Sardana, head of   and Agri Business Policy, UPL group called for focusing on intercropping and byproducts mustard cake, honey and straw for industrial use. For instance, he talked of using straw to brick kiln industry would reduce the problem of pollution caused by burning of stumps and at the same time will save lot of woods cut to be used in brick kilns.
 
