JAIPUR: The colonies developed by the   (JDA) have been a major attraction for house hunters.

 It will add more fascination when buyers will come to know several minute details about the JDA projects online such as time-frame of the development of roads and facility area, supply of electricity and water. 
 
 According to sources, after the implementation of   (RERA) in the state, even the plotted colonies developed by the JDA or any other development authority will have to register online with RERA website to share the project details.
 
 An official said, “Many residents were confused that plotted colonies will not come under the RERA ambit. However, as per the provision, plotted colonies having more than eight units or developed above 500 square metre land will have to upload details online.” 
 
 A committee was also constituted at JDA to examine the registration of projects on RERA website before July 31. “Recently, the JDA has not launched any housing schemes. So we don’t have to register any project. In future, all our projects will be registered to provide transparency.” 
 
 It is believed that new system will give confidence to buyers and keep a check on civic agency as in past it has failed to provide even basic facilities for several years after the launch of many residential projects. Due to the absence of electricity and water, the sites of many colonies continue to wear a deserted look in the city.
 
 Starting 2005, the civic body has launched 31 housing schemes. Many buyers have not constructed anything in these colonies as they are considered unsafe. “It will be good thing for buyers if new system sets the accountability of government bodies. I purchased a plot on resale two years ago from JDA colony to construct a house. The colony remains ignored despite buyers like us depositing development charges. No development has taken place. Also, we cannot expect anything in the near future as not many people are willing to construct here in the absence of facilities,” said  , a plot owner in  .
 
 After the BJP government came to power, the JDA launched many housing schemes after a gap of four years. The cash-strapped body earned a revenue of Rs 700 crore from those schemes. However, this money has not been spent on developing these colonies.
 
 An official source said that the JDA can only start colonies in far-flung areas after seeking no-objection certificates (NOCs) from the water and electricity departments.
 
 “After RERA development is expected to happen in planned manner. In the past, both these departments have locked horns with JDA over the development charge issue. Also, these departments claim the colonies are far away and it is not feasible to provide water or electricity as huge capital is required to develop infrastructure,” the official said.
 
