NAGPUR:   of the   about the miserable failure of the Narendra Modi-led  , which completed three years in office recently, and the claims of massive success by the government are bound to create confusion among the people.

 On Monday, Rajya Sabha member and national spokesman of Congress   air-dashed to the city to address the media and make a presentation on how farmers bore the brunt of the Modi government in last three years. “Altogether 35 farmers were driven to suicide daily in 2015,” he alleged.
 
 Terming the government as anti-farmer and anti-poor, he said while distressed farmers were being denied loan waiver in states like Maharashtra, the government had merrily written off dues of Rs1,54,000 crore of ‘businessmen friends.’
 
 On the loan waiver given by the BJP government in UP, the Congress spokesman termed it as a ‘fallacy’ as only 86.68 lakh of the 1.15 lakh small and marginal farmers were within the banking system to avail of any benefit.
 
 “The decision of giving input cost plus 50% profit to farmers as MSP was nothing but a jumla,” Punia said. He also presented figures to show that farm exports have declined drastically from $3,295 in 2013-14 to $1957 in 2016-17. Punia accused the government of leaving farmers in the lurch while favouring traders and middlemen.
 
 In Delhi, Union agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh painted a totally rosy picture on the farm front claiming that growth of agriculture and allied sectors had climbed to 4.4% this year. Singh said initiatives under the leadership of Modi for welfare of farmers have started showing positive and encouraging results. He also claimed that the government was moving towards fulfilling its goal of doubling farm incomes by 2022.
 
 “In 2013-14, the budgetary allocation for agriculture was Rs 30, 224 crore and the amount spent was Rs25,896 crore. In contrast, under the Modi government, the spending was more than the budgetary allocation. For instance, in 2016-17, the budgetary allocation was Rs45,035 crore but it was increased to Rs57,503 crore in the revised budget,” claimed Singh.
 
 The Congress has prepared dossiers to support its views on how the government failed miserably on four agriculture, economic growth and development, internal security and the condition of SCs, STs, OBCs and women.
 
 Senior Congress leaders have been deputed to interact with the media on these issues separately over the next week or so.
 
