NEW DELHI: Deepali, an arts student, got 82% in her Class XII board exams and picked journalism (H), political science (H) and English (H) as her subjects while filling the online Delhi University (DU) admission form. But now, even after the third list, either the key colleges have closed admission for these courses or the cutoff at lower-rung colleges remains sky-high, mostly above 90%. She has been the top scorer so far in her family, but that is still not enough to get a seat in DU.

 She now wants to add BA (programme) to her   because the cutoff for that is still approachable and the subjects align with her interest. However, DU rules do not allow any change in the list of subjects chosen once the online registration is complete. The number of such requests has increased as admission closes in popular courses and others continue to have high cutoffs. 
 
 “There needs to be some consideration for aspirants who cannot make it past the cutoff in the subjects of their choice. What is wrong in an 82%? It is not an easy score to achieve,” complained Deepali’s mother. 
 
 Coming from a village close to the Delhi-Haryana border past Mundka, Arti got 74% in Class XII. She is an arts student who has applied for sociology, English and Hindi. She too wants to add BA (programme) to her list of courses because its cutoff is lower in the colleges that fall in her area.
 
 All that these aspirants can do is write an application to the dean of Students’ Welfare. “If not here, then I will have to send my child to a private university that will charge a lot. There are so many applications coming to the university asking for addition or change of courses. At least, something must be done to accommodate these children,” said Sapna Gupta. His daughter has applied for BCom and economics but is unable to get through despite being a 90 percenter. 
 
 However, rules are rules, said grievance committee members. “The cutoffs are calculated by colleges after we give them the number of applications received for a specific subject. We cannot make last-minute changes,” said a committee official.
 
 The grievance committee has been getting such requests ever since the first cutoff came out, after students realised that their marks are very off the scale as compared to the expectations of DU colleges. Despite several posters and advisories put all over the help desk and the grievance hall, parents have been coming to volunteers and officials in the hope that some solution can be found other than sending their child for a correspondence degree or wasting the year. 
 
 Now tired of explaining and turning parents away, the committee has settled for taking written applications for addition of courses, even though they know nothing will come out of it. On Monday, over 90% complaints received were for change of  .
 
