THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Gold and other valuables have been stolen from the Padmanabhaswamy Temple over the years, advocate  , appointed by the   as amicus curiae in the temple case, said in his second report submitted before the court on Wednesday.Pointing out that financial mismanagement has taken place at the temple,   sought a detailed probe by a special investigation team (SIT) led by the  . He also submitted before the court to consider opening Vault B of the temple for making an inventory of the treasure in it.However, the court said opening of the vault was not currently under its consideration. It said renovation of the temple and restoration of its ponds were on top of its priority list.Subramaniam had submitted that opening of Vault B was necessary for completing the process of making the inventory. Traditions, customs and rituals will be followed while opening the vaults, he had said.

 According to the mahassar register, Vault B was opened at least seven times during the period from July 1990 to December 2002. Therefore, any apprehensions relating to its opening may be unfounded, Subramaniam pointed out in the report.
 
 In the first report submitted on April 15, 2014, Subramaniam had said that proper records and inventories of the temple treasures were not maintained.The report had pointed out at irregularities and lack of accounting of the gold ornaments and other precious articles.
 
 Citing the report of the special audit authority (SAA) led by former comptroller and auditor general Vinod Rai, on March 28 last year, the amicus curiae, in his affidavit indicated that 769 gold pots, weighing 776 kg and worth about Rs 186 crore were missing.
 
 The SAA also report had also said that the area actually under the possession of the temple has shrunk, pointing to unauthorized occupation in some places.
 
  pushed for setting up a committee, headed by the chief secretary to carry out an inspection of all related revenue records to determine whether any property belonging to the temple has been alienated, transferred or disposed of in any manner whatsoever.
 
