Panaji: The issue of a government proposal for a garbage treatment plant on 1.71 lakh sqm land of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) at Bainguinim dominated the gram sabha of Old Goa panchayat on Sunday.

 The few members present at the meeting grilled sarpanch Janita Madkaikar about the village panchayat’s stand on the issue, reminding her that they had opposed the plant in the past.
 
 A member pointed out that they had met the chief minister a year ago expressing their opposition to it. They had been assured that they would be taken to the Saligao plant and shown its functioning. The issue would also be taken up at a gram sabha before any final decision, but nothing has happened as yet, the member said.
 
 The members further stated that if the government decides to go ahead with the plant, and panchayat thinks of issuing approval, then a gram sabha should be convened to discuss the issue in a transparent manner.
 
 They also asked Madkaikar about her stand on the issue, stating that they had been opposing it for over a decade. But, the sarpanch declined to express her opinion.
 
 The proliferation of kiosks and illegal structures also figured at the meeting. 
 
 A resolution had been passed seeking to restrict new constructions in Old Goa, a world heritage site. But, whenever questions are raised about new ones, the members are told that town and country planning department issues the approvals. The members demanded that the TCP officials or minister be called for an interaction, as they were keen to show them the ground realities.
 
 The issue of non-formation of village development committee and biodiversity management committee also evoked criticism.
 
 The members were also critical about the villagers not being informed about the gram sabha and the recording of minutes of the previous meeting in April.
 
 A member pointed out that they had met the chief minister a year ago expressing their opposition to the garbage treatment plant. They had been assured that they would be taken to the Saligao plant and shown its functioning. The issue would also be taken up at a gram sabha before any final decision, but nothing has happened as yet, the resident said
 
 
