DEHRADUN: The statement of Maj Gen   (retd), a member of the   (IESM), that “ex-servicemen will support the Congress“ in the forthcoming elections in all five states has drawn further ire from many Army veterans. They have contended that the former is in no position to speak on their behalf.

 Singh, who was at the forefront of the One Rank One Pension (OROP) agitation, made the statement on Thursday at a function in the Congress's Delhi office in presence of Punjab party chief Capt Amarinder Singh, Uttarakhand CM   and HP CM Virbhadra Singh. On Friday , defending the move, his supporters had said that move to support the Congress was no different than the decision by the same body in the 2014 parliamentary polls to align with BJP .
 
 On Sunday , hitting back at Singh, IESM chairman Lt Gen (retd)   said, “The veterans are well-informed and discerning enough to decide which party or individual they have to vote for. They do not need anybody's advice in this regard.“
 
 Calling IESM completely apolitical, Kadyan said, “I have been the chairman of this society since its formation in 2008 and we do not align with any political party . The statement made by Singh is completely false, and he is essentially misleading the political parties.“
 
 Staunch BJP supporter Brig V K Aggarwal (retd) said, “We all have our individual political preferences, but dragging IESM into politics is absolutely wrong. The society hasn't been formed to work as a vote bank for the political parties, but for the welfare of veterans.“ Maj Gen Satbir, who claims to be the chairman of IESM, told TOI, “We have been agitating for the last 573 days for OROP , but the BJP government has let down the soldiers of the country . I spoke on the behalf of the   (UFESM) when I promised support to the Congress, which has assured us that if they come to power, a `Ministry of Defence Veterans' will be established.“
 
 However, UFESM, which has 144 organizations registered under it across the country , has rejected his claim. UFESM secretary general Col Dinesh Nain (retd) said, “Maj Gen Satbir Singh's claim that he is part of our organization is untrue and we are in no way represented by him. His statements are politically motivated, while our organization is not involved in politics. We have been fully apolitical since our formation in 2015.“
 
 Another veteran, Brig Baljeet Singh (retd) said, “Satbir's claim that he is the chairman is doubtful since I believe IESM has apparently filed a complaint against him for using this designation with his name, and he is facing a `contempt of court' charge in the Punjab and Haryana high court.“
 
