MUMBAI: The first step towards “merging” the BEST budget with the   budget got underway on Thursday, reports Somit Sen.

 The Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking’s administration gave its approval for merging its budget with the BMC’s as this could help curtail losses in the near future, sources said. 
 
 BEST committee chairman Anil Kokil said, “The panel has given the go-ahead for the  , and this was accepted by all panel members on Thursday. We want the civic authorities to absorb our losses and ensure that the transport undertaking gets adequate funds to run the fleet of 3,300 buses across the city.” 
 
 The move will ensure that the civic body virtually controls BEST.
 
 Sources said if the BMC takes   of spendings in the BEST, there could be a possibility of re-introducing AC buses in the city. The merger of   will also mean an annual allocation of funds to the BEST to procure more buses, improve the condition of existing buses and introduce hi-tech passenger-friendly services. “This will help us curtail our losses which have been mounting over the years. We can also improve services to woo more commuters and provide them the best of services,” BEST committee chairman Anil Kokil said.
 
 The proposal for merging the two budgets will now go to the BMC House. Once it gets a nod from the civic House, it will still need a clearance from the state government to make amendments in the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act. BEST has lost nearly 10 lakh commuters in the past seven years and its accumulated losses have mounted from Rs 2,000 crore in 2012-13 to Rs 2,500 crore at present, sources said.
 
 The transport wing of the undertaking had witnessed annual losses close to Rs 1,000 crore in the recent past, and this had triggered off alarm bells for the BEST. Said BMC leader of opposition Ravi Raja, “We want the BMC to sanction funds for bailing out the BEST from the red. It is a public transport service and is a lifeline for several Mumbaikars.” The BEST ferries close to 30 lakh commuters daily.
 
 The BEST workers’ union has also planned to go for a secret ballot to decide whether employees should go on strike this month. One of the demands is that the BMC should help the transport undertaking financially and ensure that the losses are curtailed.
 
 
