PANCHKULA: In 2014, the   ruled that a prohibition on   in spaces that were meant for smokers was not permissible in law. The court ruled that ashtrays, matchsticks and other things that facilitate smoking should not be provided in public spaces, but cannot be banned in places earmarked for smoking. 

 However, during police raids on two hookah bars in Panchkula last month, several minors were found smoking hookah. Police have received complaints from parents that hookah bars could lead to children developing other addictions.Cops have decided to invoke Section 133 of the Criminal Procedure Code to close these hookah bars.
 
 Inspector Lalit Kumar, SHO of Sector 5 police station, moved a criminal complaint on Tuesday against owners of two hookah bars before the court of the assistant commissioner of police (ACP)  
 
 The ACP exercises quasi-judicial powers to deal with such cases. Notably, as of now, there has been no action against the hookah bars after the SC ruling of 2014. The ACP's office is in the process of summoning owners   and Deepak Bansal of Hide Inn, a hookah bar in Sector 5, and Nitin Chhabra of Ekta Vihar, Baltana. 
 
 Officials said summons will be sent in the next two days and the owners will be asked to clarify their stand. This is the first time such a measure is being taken against hookah bars. Inspections carried out by officials from the district administration represented by SDM Mamta Sharma, the   represented by Sudhir Chaudhary and the health department represented by doctors Yash Pal and Lalit Kumar and the SHO of Sector 5 police station on April 20 last year showed that several minors had been frequenting these two hookah bars.Besides catering to minors, the bars were accused of other anomalies too. In its inspection report, the officials sought action against the bars under Section 133 of CrPC.
 
 “We were getting complaints from parents and grandparents of kids, saying they were falling prey to hookah bars. The idea is to keep kids away from these places, which could lead to other addictions,“ said Mamta Sharma, adding that none of the owners of the bars had any mechanism for scanning the age of those entering. “This is a first step to keep the kids away from addiction,“ the officer said.
 
