CHENNAI: About 26 years after a man died after custodial torture after police used his infant child and wife as bait to secure his  , a Chennai court has sentenced two former police personnel to life imprisonment.

 Prakasam, then 21, was taken into police custody in connection with a robbery case on December 15, 1991. Two days later, he died in Government  . The police had claimed that he died after falling off   while trying to escape, but an investigation found that he had died of custodial torture than inflicted 67 injuries on him. “There is every evidence to prove a cold blooded murder was committed within a police station--a typical example of police excess,“ the court said.
 
 A sub-divisional magistrate had filed a complaint in 2007 saying the first accused retired (and suspended) sub inspector of police S Subbaiah (now 72) was posted in Basin Bridge police station along with then constable Varatharaj (now 58) in 1991. The collector of Chennai received information on December 18, 1991 that the pre vious day around 9.45pm, Subbiah attempted to arrest Prakasam, who was wanted in some criminal cases. After being arrested, he tried to escape, fell from a bridge, and died, the police had then said.
 
 The inspector of police requested for any inquiry , following which the Chennai collector ordered inquiry and the state government in a 1993 GO sanctioned to prosecute the accused including the duo besides another policeman, Thirugnanasambanthan (char ges against him have abated as he is dead).
 
 Acase of murder, wrongful confinement and intentional omission to provide information was registered under Sections 302, 342 and 201 with a “huge delay“ in 2007 by the sub divisional magistrate and personal assistant of the collector.The chief metropolitan magistrate, Egmore court transferred the case to the XIX additional sessions court. Finding incriminating circumstances and documents against the trio, they were chargesheeted.
 
 According to the prosecution, Prakasam, 21, was arrested on the basis of a complaint for robbery on December 15, 1991. He was last seen alive, the same day , by his wife, Amutha.Three days later, she was taken to government general hospital, where she saw the dead body of her husband. According to the postmortem report, the death was caused by a total of 67 injuries inflicted by “linear object of uniform breadth“ (like a lathi).
 
 While the trio pleaded innocence, the prosecution produced six witnesses including Prakasam's wife, a panchayat head, the then police inspector, and the investigating officer.Judge A Shanthi said the absence of the doctor (because of his death) who had conducted the postmortem did not vitiate the trial. Prakasam was not arrested, nor was he produced before the nearest magistrate within 24 hours. So this was a case of illegal detention and wrongful confinement under  .
 
 Prakasam's death was caused by police officials on duty , the court said. The accused were aware that their action would cause death. “They exceeded the power entrusted to them...no exemption can be granted for their cruel act,“ said the judge.
 
 The court also slapped the duo with a fine of Rs 50,000 each.
 
