JAIPUR: Cash crunch due to the   severely hampered espionage operations of Pakistan’s ISI atleast in border villages of western Rajasthan with Pakistani handlers unable to pay in new currency to their spies in Jaisalmer and Barmer.

 A senior intelligence official of the Rajasthan police told TOI that interrogation of Haji Khan and Sadiq Kha, who were arrested for allegedly spying for Pakistan, confessed that payments were delayed and sometimes their handlers insisted them to accept junked currency notes.
 
 “These spies were paid between Rs 9,000 to 15,000 per task. But the cash crunch took its toll as Pakistani handlers didn’t have enough cash in hand to pay to their newly recruited people. The handlers delayed the payment and asked people like Sadiq to wait for some time,” the official said.
 
  was also asked by handlers across the border to rope in more people into the network but the cash crunch delayed the expansion of the spy network. “Khan said in his interrogation that his handlers delayed payments on several occasions and instead asked him to take the entire outstanding amount on his next visit to Pakistan,” the official said.
 
 Sadiq Khan was arrested by the intelligence and security arm of Rajasthan police from a railway station at Jaisalmer district while he was trying to board a train to Pakistan on February 3. Khan was brought to Jaipur for questioning where he admitted to have allegedly shared vital strategic information about deployment of Indian troops to his Pakistani handlers. 
 
 However, he also said during the interrogation that transfer and availability of money had become a major cause of discord between him and his masters. “He said that many persons who were planning to join the network declined the offer once they learned that payments have been indefinitely delayed,” the official said, adding that Pakistani offered other promises including a chance to easily visit Pakistan and meet their relatives.
 
 The cops in Rajasthan in past six months arrested several suspected Pakistani spies like Haji Khan, Beriyam Khan, Sadiq Khan etc who in their interrogation fetched crucial details about the network of ISI in Jaisalmer and Barmer.
 
 
