CHENNAI: Chief minister O Panneerselvam’s announcement of declaring all districts as drought-hit has come as a breather for the farmers, but questions linger among the agrarian community if the relief measures would help them tide over the crisis.

 Ryots say a compensation of Rs 5,565 per acre of paddy is very less. “It takes at least Rs 25,000 per acre to raise seedlings and cultivate the crop. Such paltry amount of compensation will not help the farmers,” said K Devaraj, a farming leader from Madurai.
 
 The ideal way to rescue them from the crisis would be to waive the farm loans, he said. Instead the government has announced that crop loans obtained from cooperative banks and commercial banks would be converted into medium term loans.
 
 P Kandasamy, state general secretary of   (non-communal, non–religious and non –political) said these measures were of little use for the farmers unless the loans were waived. “Majority of the farmers who have borrowed from cooperative and public sector banks cannot repay their loans. The state government should bear the crop loans,” said Kandasamy.
 
 The state government declaring that only 17 farmers have committed suicides has also not gone down well with the agrarian community. Several farmers said there was one suicide almost every day for the past two months, mostly in Cauvery delta region. On Tuesday too, a 45-year-old turmeric farmer ended his life in Erode.
 
 President of All Farmers Associations’ Coordination Committee P R   expressed displeasure over the government’s suicide data. “More than 120 farmers have lost their lives due to crop loss across the state. The government should reconsider the statement and make a fresh announcement on the actual number,” he said.
 
 The fund allocation for desilting of water bodies was welcomed, but termed inadequate. “State government should allot more funds to desilt water bodies and the work must be handed over to the respective farmers and agricultural labourers instead of contractors,” said Cauvery S Dhanapalan, president, Cauvery Delta Farmers Association.
 
 Puliyur A Nagarajan, state organiser of the farmers’ wing of  , said in addition to desilting of existing water bodies, government should also come up with long term plans to mitigate future crises. “At least 100 check dams across both Cauvery and Kollidam starting from Mettur reservoir to Grand Anaicut should be built. This would help harvest minimum 200tmc of water,’’ he said.
 
 
