Stigma attached to the  , act as deterrents when it comes to jobs. This  , which includes  , scuttles for scanty opportunities that present in discouraging numbers. However, a   is striving hard to open more avenues for trangenders. In a taboo-shattering step, they have invited job applications for the sect. They are involving various city-based   (NGOs) to publicise their bid among trangenders.

 On Wednesday, the Kochi Metro opened bulk employments for transgenders. With them entering the second round of interviews on Thursday, Pune seems to be quite sensitive on this front, with proprietors of Dhayari-based Supreme Enterprises opening their shops for this marginalised stratum. Owners Rahul and Archana Wautre’s factory that produces clothes for infants is now looking for trangender employees.
 
 Rahul has been contacting several NGOs over last couple of weeks. He even knocked the doors of the Samapathik Trust, which is known for its LGBT activism in the city. The NGO’s founder, Bindumadhav Khire, told Pune Mirror that Rahul had indeed approached him, following which he visited their factory and also informed various transgenders about the opportunity.
 
 “Person from every strata of society should have the right to live with dignity and be able to work in mainstream for it earns more respect. Transgenders need such opportunities to live with dignity. Due to no job opportunities, they resort to begging on the streets,” Khire said.
 
 His trust has been trying to overturn this situation right from its inception in 2002. Khire said that the trust aims at empowering transgenders so that they do not have to beg. With around 200 such people connected to the trust, they are collectively working towards financial independence by making most of opportunities that come their way.
 
 Now that the Wautre couple has opened a few spots at their factory, they hope the response meets their optimistic expectations. With 17 workers engaged in fabricating clothes for infants, the factory will soon shift base to Uruli Devachi, opening up more employable spots.
 
 Rahul told Mirror, “After shifting the unit at Hadapsar, we have planned to increase the production and the staff also. For that we need to double the number of employees. We have decided to give the job opportunities to women and transgenders.”
 
 The factory has several units like cutting, stitching, ironing and packing that do not require strict educational qualifications. Rahul said that the transgenders with little or no education are welcome at his factory and they will be provided training at the facility. He also hopes that this time around, they hold on to the jobs unlike his previous experience.
 
 Earlier, Rahul had appointed transgenders at his factory but they did not continue. He took to social media to contact several others and then went to different NGOs that work with transgenders in the city. The response was positive.
 
 “We will provide them with good salary and other facilities like any other employee. They will also be given insurance so that they can feel safe at work,” Rahul said.
 
 On asking him what prompted him to take up the cause, Rahul said that he wants to undo general apathy towards trangenders. “On buses or trains I have seen them begging. When I tried to interact with them, I received cold shoulder from people. We need to understand the fact that transgenders face a lot of problems in their life. My initiative is one of the baby steps into inculcating them into mainstream. We hope our maiden attempt will be asuccess,” Rahul said.
 
 ¦ Person from every strata of society should be able to work in mainstream for it earns more respect. Transgenders need such opportunities to live with dignity
 
 — Bindumadhav Khire, founder of Samapathik Trust
 
