CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court on Monday reserved its verdict on the petition challenging the constitutional validity of Haryana Backward Classes (Reservation in Services and Admission in Educational Institutions) Act, 2016 providing reservation to   and five other communities under the newly-created backward classes (C) category. 

 A division bench headed by Justice S S Saron reserved the verdict after a marathon hearing of arguments placed by the Haryana government defending the act, and the petitioners questioning its legal validity. The bench, however, clarified that it would be open for any party to file a reply or affidavit related to the case within one week.
 
 ‘The Haryana Backward Classes (Reservation in Services and Admission in Educational Institutions) Bill 2016’ was passed unanimously by the state assembly on March 29, 2016. The act was notified in the official gazette on May 12, 2016 by the state government.
 
 The new act provided reservation to Jat and five other communities under BC (C) category. Five other communities include Jat Sikh, Mulla Jat/Muslim Jat, Bishnoi, Ror and Tyagi. All these six communities were entitled to get 10% reservation in government services and admission in educational institutions.
 
 However, on May 26, 2016, a division bench of the HC had stayed the reservation to these communities after hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the constitutional validity of Schedule III (Block C) of ‘The Haryana Backward Classes (Reservation in Services and Admission in Educational Institutions) Act 2016. The petition was filed by  , a resident of   district.
 
 The petitioner sought directions to set aside the bill for being against the law laid down by the   in the Indira Sawhney case. According to the petitioner, with the passing of the new bill, the reservation reached around 70%, but according to the law laid down by apex court, the limit cannot exceed beyond 50%.
 
 According to the petitioner, in 2014 also the state government had introduced such a bill to include Jats in the list of other backward classes (OBCs) for reservation in job and educational institutions. However, the Supreme Court, in the case of Ram Singh and others versus the Union of India, had held that Jats were not backward socially, educationally and politically. 
 
 Haryana government, however, had argued that in view of geographical and cultural diversity in the country, it was not necessary that there should be uniformity in the reservation policies. The state had submitted that even the apex court in some cases had accepted that reservation could be granted to any community in special conditions and circumstances. Citing the example of Tamil Nadu where the state has provided 69% reservation after constituting a commission.
 
 According to Haryana government, it was mandatory for the petitioner to move the  , a statutory authority to entertain and examine complaints/issues raised by the present petitioner in his writ petition.
 
 
