NEW DELHI: Pakistani troops on Tuesday resorted to mortar shelling and firing by automatic weapons along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, prompting the Army to retaliate. 

 "There was   by Pakistan Army in Bhimbher Gali sector of Rajouri district from 1100 hours today, using 82 mm mortars, automatic weapons," a defence spokesman said. 
 
  personnel took positions and responded befittingly to the Pakistani firing, the spokesman said, adding that intermittent firing was going on. 
 
 There is no casualty on Indian side, he said. 
 
 Today's ceasefire violation is the third such incident in less than 24 hours along the LoC in Rajouri and   districts.
 
 Yesterday, Pakistani troops had resorted to firing and shelling of mortar bombs on forward posts in Balakote sector of Rajouri district from 1100 hours and it continued for some hours.
 
 The   had also initiated indiscriminate firing of small arms, automatic and mortar shells from 0930 hours yesterday on Indian Army posts along the LoC in   area in Poonch sector.
 
 Heavy mortar shelling in Digwar area created fear psychosis among the residents.
 
 In the same area, a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), Naib Subedar S Sanayaima Som, was killed in an improvised explosive device (IED) blast on April 1.
 
 There had been four ceasefire violations along the LoC in Poonch in March.
 
 On March 19, Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire by resorting to shelling and firing along the LoC in Bhimbher Gali area of Poonch district.
 
 On March 13, Pakistani troops resorted to mortar shelling and firing by automatic weapons along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch sector.
 
 On March 12, Pakistani troops had violated the ceasefire by resorting to firing and mortar shelling in Krishnagati and Chakan Da Bagh sectors along the LoC in Poonch district.
 
 Pakistani shelling caused damage to the LoC Trade Facilitation centre and LOC travel and trade was suspended for a few days.
 
 On March 9, army jawan Deepak Jagannath Ghadge was killed when Pakistani soldiers initiated indiscriminate and unprovoked firing along the LoC in Poonch.
 
 In 2016, 228 instances of ceasefire violations along the LoC were reported while there were 221 instances of ceasefire violations along International Border (IB).
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
