CHENNAI:   mouthpiece, Dr   MGR on Friday lashed out at   by accusing him of joining hands with "Spectrum DMK" to defame the ruling party. 

 The attack came within days of the actor urging his fans and people of the state to report corrupt deeds of the AIADMK ministers through an online campaign. He even exhorted them to do away with complaints on paper as they would be torn and thrown away. The contact telephone numbers and email IDs of ministers, including CM, have been missing on the Tamil Nadu government portal since then.
 
 Countering the actor's charge that one had to pay bribe to get tax exemption for films, the organ, in its Friday edition, asked why he had not taken up the matter with former chief minister J Jayalalithaa when she headed the events relating to Tamil film industry. He should have toed the line of actor Ajith Kumar, who raised his famous complaint that actors were forced to participate in the then chief minister M Karunanidhi's function. Kamal was driven by "petty and toxic desire" (nappasaiyum, nachu asaiyum) to hog limelight, the organ said. Editor Marudhu Alaguraj confirmed to TOI that he penned the article.
 
 The daily, under the control of the   clan, had recently blacked out news on chief minister   and his cabinet colleagues and at times was even critical about the functioning of the government. But, it is now back to 'business' it seems and is projecting the CM, and his statements. "Kamal kept quiet then. Why is the actor, with political ambitions, now alleging that there is corruption in all departments? Not even 200 days lapsed since our leader's death," the article said. Ever since Kamal took to social media platform twitter to vent his anger against the state, ministers have been training their guns on him with threats like tax audit and action under SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.
 
 The party organ accused the veteran actor of colluding with the DMK that was indicted by   for corruption. "Kamal's toxic desire is to realize the dream of Karunanidhi to crush the AIADMK, nurtured by Puratchi Thalaivar and  , in his lifetime. He will never succeed," the daily said, taking a dig at the actor, who claimed that he became a politician the day he opposed Hindi imposition. It slammed Kamal for not questioning the alleged corruption of DMK during the previous UPA regime. 
 
 The actor failed to "clean up" his industry that has not passed on the benefits of tax exemption to the cinema-goers, it charged. 
 
