NOIDA: “Would you like it if you were searched like a thief twice every day at your workplace?”

 The reference was to full pat-down searches that domestic helps and other service providers are put through at  . It’s a practice that most big gated societies have had in place for years, a part of the condominium culture, just like making everyone pass through a metal detector or scanning bags of visitors.
 
 But here was someone asking about the psychological impact of such   protocols. The 30-something slum-dweller who had thrown that question also offered an answer. “It means there is no trust,” he said, leaning on the asbestos door of his tenement, part of a small set of shanties built on cleared farmland, behind which rise the tall facades of rows and rows of residential towers in Noida’s Sector 78.
 
 The slum and the highrises are separated only by a narrow service lane, but after the mob attack at Moderne last Wednesday (July 12), the wide gulf between the two worlds is already increasing. Moderne is gearing up to make security checks more stringent, as will many other societies across NCR, out of concern for residents’ safety.
 
 The pat-down checks, psychological impact notwithstanding, will also get more thorough.
 
 The man who raised the question is a construction worker, a neighbour of Zohra, the 30-year-old maid whose disappearance from her house on the night of July 11 led to the mob attack. Zohra’s husband was able to easily mobilise support, even from a larger neighbouring slum, because of the lack of trust between the two worlds that co-exist across the street from one another.
 
 Noida’s link road, off which lie the city’s new sectors and scores of condominiums like Moderne, is among the hottest real estate destinations in NCR. 
 
 It’s a young society, barely three years in the making, but also a microcosm of what we have been seeing across NCR — gentrification of uninhabited areas, followed by the influx of organised, white collar, upper middle class migrants, followed by another class of migrants who work in their homes.
 
 Brought together by a design of economics, these two classes co-habit in the same geographical space but find themselves tied together in an arrangement based on convenience rather than any kind of kinship. If Zohra Bibi and her employers were invested in each other’s wellbeing, would this situation have ever arisen?
 
 Marjina, a maid at Moderne, said she faced no problem with her employer but there were several others who were not so lucky. She said no one had benefited from Wednesday’s violence — the maids feared losing their jobs and their employers were left to do household chores on their own. 
 
 Abida Bibi, who works in Antriksh Golf View 1, said she always felt the class divide in the way the ‘sahab’ or the ‘madam’ behaved. “Then, there are issues with delayed payments and overtime. We do not share healthy relations with our employers. Labelling us Bangladeshi has soured that further,” she said.
 
 A resident of Antriksh Golf View 1 said he got a ringside view of the atmosphere of suspicion when the society’s WhatsApp group started buzzing with calls for curbs on certain kinds of maids after the violence at Moderne. “What happened was unfortunate and whoever was at fault, the law will deal with it. But why extend that bias to others working in households here?” asked the resident, who declined to be named.
 
 A Moderne resident, who also sought anonymity, agreed with the view. “There are bad pennies in every profession. Does this mean the entire profession is bad? We are taking measures to beef up security. At the same time, we do not want to discriminate against anyone. We want the society to return to normalcy as soon as possible.” 
 
 There is, however, no monochromatic lens to view the curious and complex relationship that domestic helps share with owners. Zohra, Abida and Marjina are much worse off than maids who are local residents. The latter can bank on their own homes and support systems to work their way up. They also usually command higher wages. But it takes years for those like Zohra and her husband Abdul to gain a foothold in a place away from home.
 
 While Zohra (30), who is from Cooch Behar in West Bengal, faces a theft case and the possibility of losing credibility with her other employers, at the other end of the spectrum is Rinki, who came to Noida from Moradabad in 2007, started working as a cook at a Sector 50 condominium and managed to save enough to eventually start her own beauty parlour in Sector 39. Last year, the 33-year-old celebrated her daughter’s 12th birthday with a party at McDonald’s.
 
  She sends her daughter to an English-medium school and, along with her husband, recently booked a 1BHK flat in  . “I want my daughter to have all the basic facilities for which I had to struggle in life,” said Rinki, whose one-room home is equipped with an AC, fridge and washing machine.
 
 Meena, meanwhile, was studying BCom when she eloped with her Bengali boyfriend. Meena’s family disowned her but she didn’t lose heart. Currently, she works as a maid in six homes in Sector 120. She has a daughter who is 1. “We will soon invest some money in mutual funds or other saving schemes for the future of our daughter,” Meena said of her future plans.
 
 
