Bhopal: Bharatiya Janata Party’s victory in assembly elections, particularly in bordering state  , brought the party cadres in upbeat mood in Bhopal on Saturday. 

 Hundreds of party workers reached the BJP state headquarters in Arera Colony as soon as the trends started showing a clean sweep to the party in polls.
 
 It was Holi and Diwali both for the party workers. The party workers smeared colours, bunt firecrackers and distributed sweets to celebrate the landslide victory. Senior leaders also reached the party headquarters and lifted spirits of the party workers.
 
 Party state’s president, Nandkumar Singh Chouhan, several ministers, including Vishwas Sarang, Member of Parliament from Bhopal, Alok Sanjar and scores of leaders started gathering in the party office since early afternoon.
 
 Few of them came in the form of a procession. Besides, the leaders also celebrated the party’s victory in their bungalows by greeting their workers and different areas of new as well as in old city. 
 
 BJP workers danced on the drumbeats at the party headquarters. They were expecting to win, but not with such a huge margin. Party leaders and workers from far flung outskirts areas of the city came to the party headquarters.
 
 A party worker, Satyajeet Chaturvedi said “it is the magic of our prime minister and hard work of party workers that we emerged victorious with a huge margin”.
 
 “I was confident that we will win the UP elections, but was not expecting this number of seats. It is the time for us to celebrate”, said Ram Prakash Vanshkar.
 
 “Another party worker, Laxmi Narayan Shilpi said there is a wave of BJP in the country and no other political party can stop it. BJP will continue to win all elections”, he added.
 
 The celebrations among the BJP workers continued till late evening . A number of party workers from state has also gone for campaigning in UP. Party workers said Holi has started two days before for them.
 
 Apart from the prime minister, cadres also credited their party’s national president,   for his poll skills. 
 
