CHANDIGARH: Despite two companies expressing interest in   that have been lying unutilised since the last three years at Karnal and Panchkula,   government is highly unlikely to reap benefits from these malls this year.

 After the   (HSAMB) invited expression of interest from companies proficient in establishing business, two companies, including a Mumbai based multi-national company, had responded by June 28. However, the HSAMB has now decided to hire a third party agency to conduct further feasibility study.
 
 In 2008, Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government had decided to come up with four agro-malls, one each at Panchkula, Karnal, Panipat and Rohtak for marketing of agricultural produce. These four-storied agro-malls were completed in 2014 at a cost of over Rs 400 crore. The present BJP government has been struggling to utilise these malls for the lack of interested parties. Karnal and Panipat agro-malls have been lying vacant since their completion while a few shops have been sold out in Panchkula and Rohtak  .
 
 HSAMB’s executive engineer Sudhir informed TOI that the feasibility study from a third party agency would take at least two months. However, the choice of third party agency is dependent on the outcome of a tendering process that itself would take at least three weeks.
 
 “A study is needed to ascertain who the customers would be in these two agro malls and what would be the rate of a square foot, as per the prevailing market rates,” said Sudhir. He added that the study would also find out whether it would be advisable to outrightly sell or lease out these malls after analysing future consequences. The agency would also ascertain whether any structural changes were required at these malls, said Sudhir.
 
 Meanwhile, the two companies that have expressed interest in taking over the management of these malls would be responsible for bringing in free-hold or lease clients as well as the advertising, marketing and brand building of the sites. “These two management companies have also visited Panchkula and Karnal agro malls. But our focus is to first ascertain what is best suited to us in terms of revenue generation as well as public facility,” said the executive engineer. HSAMB is also conducting in-house study on the subject.
 
 Karnal agro-mall has a basement parking and since it is totally vacant, the approximate saleable area is 1.55 lakh square feet. Panchkula agro-mall also has a basement parking and approximate saleable area on its first and second floor is 75,635 square feet. HSAMB will take further call on Panipat and Rohtak agro-malls after analysing response for these Karnal and Panchkula agro-malls.
 
 
