KOLKATA: Most premium quality stents have vanished from hospitals in Kolkata, leaving doctors and patients to stick to locally-made varieties that meet the price cap of Rs 30,000 but are probably inferior to the ones they have replaced.

 Among those withdrawn from the market by pharmaceutical companies are several imported drug-eluting stents and the bio-reabsorbable ones that were priced between Rs 50,000 and Rs 1.8 lakh prior to the imposition of the price ceiling on February 14. A section of doctors and hospitals believes this has unfairly restricted the option of choosing a 'safer and better' implant that might have proved beneficial for many critical cardiac patients.
 
 A substantial percentage of the available stents are suspect in terms of quality, are prone to complications and have dated technology , said cardiologist  .
 
 “While the price cap is a wonderful thing and will make stent implants affordable, it is unfair to rule out the more expensive ones which are superior in quality. In fact, a majority of implants done in Kolkata used the more expensive varieties since they were safer and more efficient. The more recent varieties have an advanced technology and are obviously superior,“ said Hazra, head of the department at  . At RN Tagore Interna tional   (RTIICS), all imported stents were withdrawn on Thursday , leaving patients to choose from Indian medicated stents and bare metal ones. Pharma companies, however, didn't offer a reason for the withdrawal, said R Venkatesh, director (east),  .“The high-end ones have been suddenly withdrawn which restricts implant options severely. Only the Indian varieties are available. So far, we have no idea if the imported stents are going to return,“ said Venkatesh.
 
 The hospitals also fear a drop in the number of implants and also post-implant complications. “It is perhaps not fair to expect the high-end stents to be sold cheaper overnight. The price cap has indeed limited the option for doctors and it could affect patients,“ said Alok Roy , chairman of  .
 
 It was only after considering the actual costs that the price cap must have been recommended, argued cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar. “It is not a judicial order which makes the prices negotiable. Secondly, the pharmaceutical companies must remember that the price of a highend stent is not more than Rs 10,000 in countries like Germany. It is common knowledge the implants were grossly overpriced in India and something had to be done about it. I fear the sudden withdrawal of the implants would be followed by black marketing of imported stents at even higher prices,“ said Sarkar.
 
 On Friday , a leading global pharmaceutical company issued a statement claiming that they have not withdrawn the expensive stents but merely taken them off for relabelling.
 
 A few hospitals like Apollo Gleneagles and Fortis, however, were still using imported drug-eluting stents.“But we have implemented the price cap,“ said Rupali Basu, CEO, Apollo Gleneagles.
 
