Mohali: District Consumer Disputes  , Mohali has directed Bajwa Developers (Jarnail Singh Bajwa) of Sunny Enclave to refund the deposited amount of Rs 10.20 lakh and also pay compensation of Rs 35 thousand for not delivering the flat within a given time frame to Sanjay Sharma, a resident of Chandigarh.

 The complainant entered into an agreement dated April 29, 2011 with the Bajwa Developers for the purchase of 1 BHK in Sunny Apartment Village, Sector 117, Mohali for Rs 12 lakh.
 
 Bajwa Developers informed the complainant that it has in its possession requisite permission and approvals to sell the apartments to buyers and consumers. As per the agreement, the complainant made payment of all the instalments except the last, which was to be paid at the time of delivery of possession of the flat.
 
 As per the agreement, Bajwa Developers was to handover the flat within three years from the date of first instalment i.e. August 29, 2011. The complainant visited Bajwa Developers on October 29, 2012 with the last payment of Rs.1.80 lakh but the representative of the Bajwa Developers told the complainant that due to some delay in the project, the firm would be unable in handing over the possession of the flat. 
 
 The complainant again visited the firm in May, 2013 to know the status of the agreement, but no positive response was given to him. 
 
 Bajwa Developers failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the license and the provisions of Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act, 1995. As the builder failed in delivering the possession of the apartment within time, the complainant sent a registered application to Bajwa Developers for refund of the amount, along with e-mails, but to no avail. The complainant requested to be provided with a receipt of the amount by mentioning the same on a fresh agreement with same date. However, the builder retained the original agreement with it when the complainant requested for refund of the amount. 
 
 Bajwa Developers received the amount without getting any permissions and approvals as the builder had indulged in unfair trade practice and was liable to refund the amount along with interest, claimed the complainant. The firm filed reply in which it was alleged that the complainant had committed default in payment of instalments.
 
 Court after hearing arguments of both the sides, directed Bajwa Developers to refund the deposited amount of Rs 10.20 lakh and also pay compensation of Rs 35 thousand to complainant.
 
 BOX:
 
 THE CASE:
 
 -Sanjay Sharma entered into an agreement on April 29, 2011 for the purchase of 1 BHK flat in Sunny Apartment Village, Sector 117, Mohali with Bajwa Developers
 
 -The complainant had paid all instalments except the last, which was to be paid at the time of delivery of the posession of the flat
 
 -The firm was to hand over the flat within three years from the date of the first instalment
 
 -Sharma visited the firm on Otober 29, 2012 with last payment of Rs 1.8 lakh, but was refused possession of the flat
 
 
