CHANDIGARH: A member of the ministerial staff of a then Punjab minister was appointed as a   (executive) officer, despite not having a graduation degree. 

 The Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) and the previous SAD-BJP governement selected a senior assistant in the staff of then food and civil supplies minister   in the   (executive branch) in contravention of all rules.
 
 According to documents obtained under the RTI Act by a Punjab government employee Promila Sharma, Raman Kumar Kochhar, who is now posted as assistant commissioner (general) in poll-bound Gurdaspur district, did not possess a graduation degree at the time of applying for the post under A-II register category (for class-B government employees), which is one of the mandatory requirements. The PPSC had on April 21, 2014, issued a circular for filling up 25 PCS (executive branch) posts. Sharma had made a representation to the personnel department challenging Kochhar’s appointment.
 
 The then state government even overruled the adverse advice of its legal remembrancer-cum-secretary law Vivek Puri dated July 8, 2016, and the   (UGC) dated November 3, 2016, in this case.
 
 Surprisingly, the documents reveal that Kochar had submitted a copy of MA (history) degree from Annamalai University, Tamil Nadu, through the distance education mode in 2003-05 to the PPSC, but did not submit the graduation degree as he did not have one. 
 
 The record shows that then chief secretary Sarvesh Kaushal issued Kochhar’s first posting order as assistant commissioner (general), Tarn Taran, on November 8, 2016, “by curtailing his training” in a tearing hurry, pre-empting the notification for impending assembly elections.
 
 When contacted, Kochhar was not able to explain how he got admission in the master’s course without completing graduation. He said, “I have submitted all required documents to the government. You can check with the personnel department.” When TOI cross-checked with the department, a senior officer said, “We are examining the issue of Kochhar not having graduation degree and the file is with the chief minister.”
 
 Then legal remembrancer-cum-secretary law Vivek Puri had also said, “This department is of the opinion that Kochhar cannot be appointed in PCS (executive branch) as he does not have a graduation degree from a recognized university, which is a condition precedent for such appointment.”
 
 UGC’s education officer Hemang A Desai too had said, “Master’s degree regulations, 2003, clearly stipulate that no student shall be eligible for admission to a master’s degree in any faculty unless he/she has successfully completed three years of an undergraduate degree.”
 
 When contacted, Kairon replied, “Selection was done by a different department and not my department. Procedures are laid down and departments follow those procedures.”
 
