COIMBATORE: In a first of its kind in the state, the   is to launch a helpline to receive wildlife related complaints from the public in the   division to prevent man-animal conflicts.

 “We have approached BSNL to obtain a helpline number exclusively for the forest department. A control room is to be set up at the office of the Coimbatore forest ranger and three people will be appointed to attend calls round the clock. A separate register will be maintained to note down the call details,” said  , conservator of forests, Coimbatore circle.
 
 The department believes that the initiative would help to redress complaints from the public. “After receiving the complaints, the control room will alert the forest range officers, who would attend the complaints along with his team and resolve it,” said Ramasubramanian.
 
 “People can contact the helpline round the clock and can inform about wild animal movement in their area, poaching, death of wild animals and other related problems. The forest department officials will respond immediately to the complaints,” added Ramasubramanian.
 
 The initiative is part of ‘Project Kaliru’, which the department had introduced a few years ago to prevent human-animal conflicts. The state government has allotted Rs 1.38 crore for the project this year and the department is using a part of the fund to introduce the initiative.
 
 The Coimbatore forest division has seven ranges - Madukkarai, Boluvampatti, Coimbatore, Periyanaickenpalayam, Karamadai, Mettupalayam and Sirumugai - facing many man-animal conflicts. According to forest department officials, 10 elephants died in the last six months in the division.
 
 Besides, the department has constructed a watchtower at the Madukkarai forest range to monitor the movement of wild animals near the   rail lines. “We installed four thermal sensor cameras atop the watchtower. When elephants cross the rail tracks, the staff would alert the railway officials to reduce the train speed in the stretch,” he added.
 
