AHMEDABAD: Come April, passengers landing at the   in Ahmedabad will be greeted with `salaam-namaste' by women taxi drivers. Ahmedabad police have begun a unique social experiment they plan to train women as   and help them overcome gender and religious biases.

 Interestingly, on Thursday , the first day for registration of women keen to become taxi drivers, 43 women registered, nearly 70% of whom were Muslims. Most queued up in hijabs and were excited at the idea of earning a decent living by getting behind the wheel and breaking into the taxi business, so far a male bastion.
 
 The project is a joint effort of the city police, an NGO and a car-rental company.The month-long training will begin from March 20.
 
 Farhatjahan Saiyed of the NGO said after training, women taxi drivers will be placed with a car rental company.
 
 Women drivers will work during day shifts and earn Rs 250 per day plus tips from customers,“ Saiyed said. “We are confident that these women will make around Rs 800 to Rs 1000 daily.“Tarranum Shaikh, a 30-ye ar-old resident of Jamalpur, said the initiative had come as a saviour.“My sister committed suicide four years ago,“ Shaikh said.
 
 “She left behind two kids -Masumali (15) and Mohammad Noor (10) -who are now my responsibility. My husband works at a hosiery shop. By driving a taxi, I will be able to earn money and fulfill my sister's dream of giving her children the best education.“ Rita Rajput, 35, a street vendor in Karanj, said it was her dream to learn driving. 
 
 “It will only help my family's finances if I earn some money by driving a taxi,“ she said. Mubina Saiyed, a 35-year-old housewife, said she want to earn and help her husband who is the sole bread winner of the family.“Times have changed. It will be liberating to be a taxi driver in my free time and support my husband financially,“ Saiyed said. Sheefa Kadri, 22, said driving a taxi means a well-paying job. “I used to work with   but stopped after I had an accident.It will be interesting to get into a new profession. As the police is with us, safety is assured,“ Kadri said.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2, Usha Rada said women taxi drivers will be given a uniform which will not be mandatory. “Women will also be given a badge with a police emblem to ensure their safety while driving taxis,“ Rada said.
 
  She further said that the initiative is to empower women who want to work.“Apart from providing work opportunity to women, we also aim to build bridges across communities and instil faith in cops in ordinary people,“ Rada said.
 
