BHOPAL: Fearing factional feud and sectarian backlash before the February 22 ‘Assembly Gherao’ agitation against the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government in the state, the Congress party on Monday decided to postpone the appointment of the Leader of Opposition. Senior state Congress leaders were worried that declaring the name of the LoP before the agitation could backfire, with disgruntled factions staying away from the protest rally.

 The Congress Legislative Party (CLP) met at the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) office on Monday afternoon. There, in the presence of AICC observer  , it was unanimously decided to leave selection of the LoP to AICC president Sonia Gandhi and vice-president Rahul Gandhi – an age-old practice in the grand old party.
 
 Four months after the demise of Satyadev Katare, it was expected that AICC would announce the name of the new LoP by Monday evening since   starts from Tuesday morning.
 
 Maken said, “The procedure for appointment of LoP has just started. That is why the AICC has sent me here as an ‘observer’. The MLAs did not want an election or voting for the LoP and left the decision to AICC president Sonia Gandhi and vice-president Rahul Gandhi. There is no deadline for appointment of the LoP. Meantime, Bala Bachchan will continue as acting LoP.”
 
 Factional rivalry over the appointment of LoP was apparent as nearly 26 party MLAs (out of the total 56), gathered at the official residence of senior leader and legislator from Churhat, Ajay Singh. Those present comprised members of the powerful ‘thakur’ lobby, including Dr Govind Singh, KP Singh, Jaivardhan Singh, Arif Aqueel. They arrived at the PCC office together – a show of strength of sorts – openly backing the candidature of Ajay Singh. Dr Govind Singh sought a vote for electing the LoP.
 
 Meanwhile, former minister of the Digvijaya Singh government and senior MLA Ram Niwas Rawat put forward his own claim for the post. Speaking to reporters, Rawat said, “I am also a candidate being considered for the post. I am senior, why should I not be eligible?”
 
 The CLP meeting was held on the third floor of the PCC office. Ajay Maken was flanked by AICC general secretary in-charge of state affairs Mohan Prakash and state unit president Arun Yadav. Acting LoP Bala Bachchan, who has been leading the CLP in the House over the past two years since Satyadev Katare fell ill, proposed that the LoP nomination should be left to the party high-command. “All legislators supported the proposal,” Maken said later.
 
 The meeting was attended by Congress party’s total 56 legislators. Sources in the state PCC said that the new LoP may now be appointed after the February 22 agitation, which is expected to be led by central leaders Digvijaya Singh,  , Jyotiraditya Scindia, Suresh Pachauri, Kantilal Bhuria and Mohan Prakash.
 
 
