BHOPAL: Refusing to admit that an   girl from Saudi Arabia was ragged on campus, the   on Monday concluded that it was merely a case of a fresher being hypersensitive.

 The girl, who had to be hospitalized for shock, is now in Mumbai after her parents took her away, saying they are unlikely to bring her back. MANIT says it did not find any evidence against the senior students named by the family — the authorities virtually took the accused’s word that they were innocent. 
 
 Proctorial board chief, Prof PK Jain, told TOI that they questioned all the accused, including a girl. “In the marathon three-hour inquiry we asked her roommate and other students. No one told the board that there was any kind of bullying or ragging that could put her in hospital,” he added. The board is now “waiting” for the girl, who is undergoing treatment in Mumbai, to record her statement. 
 
 Jain remarked that the NRI girl was “very, very sensitive”, like “many first-year students who feel homesick”. “Students told me that the girl used to mind even petty things,” said Jain. He said the board spoke to a few students who were her acquaintances to crosscheck the statements of her seniors. “A trip was scheduled for February 25, 2017. There was no pressure on her (to join). In this situation, I can only say that there was  . We will talk to her after she comes back,” said Jain.
 
 Asked why a bright girl, who scored 96% in HS, would suddenly get depressed, Jain said, “I cannot comment on the reason for her depression but she was not ragged.” In order to avoid such “complaints”, MANIT officials will carry out surprise inspections in hostels and the college daily, he added. 
 
 Her uncle Tanveer Faruqui refused to comment on MANIT’s stand. He said the family is focused on her health and would wait till she recovers
 
 The chief warden said they will form a six-member team that will make surprise checks daily. There are 20 wardens in MANIT hostels. Any student caught involved in any kind of illegal activity will be penalized on the spot, officials said, adding that a new agency will handle security on campus from April. 
 
 It was also decided to keep the canteen open on Saturday evening. Officials found during their inquiry that students would use the canteen-closed pretext to hold parties outside campus on Saturdays, say sources. MANIT will also keep a close watch on late night parties outside campus, but just how they will do it wasn’t spelt out.
 
 The victim, originally from Mumbai, took admission under the direct admission scheme for students abroad (DASA) in August 2016 and put up in the lone girls’ hostel on campus. Only NRIs, foreign nationals and Persons of Indian Origin are eligible for DASA on their higher secondary marks. She alleged that some seniors started relentlessly ragging her since November.
 
 
