BANKURA/BHOPAL:   may have killed live-in partner   for a mere Rs 1 lakh, and not in an insane moment of jealousy, police in Bankura said on Wednesday.

 Udyan wasn’t fazed by the hours of interrogation and was in a chatty mood, especially after relishing a Bengali menu of sukto, egg curry, pumpkin curry and dal-rice, say sources in police. He refuses to speak to anyone apart from “senior officers” at  .
 
 Realising that he is a  ,   are taking his “confessions” with a bucket of salt but they are pretty sure he kills for gain, not out of impulse.
 
 An officer said they have “clinching evidence” that Udyan had become restless after blowing up, in just two years, all the money he made out of selling his parents’ Raipur property after their murder.
 
 “He knew that his father had Rs 8 lakh as fixed deposit in a bank. He called up the bank manager at Raipur and even shifted his father’s accounts to Bhopal. But the bank kept denying him the money. We suspect it was around this time that he decided to convince Akansha to transfer her money to him by bringing her to Bhopal,” an investigator said.
 
 Police say Akansha’s account is left with Rs 9 though it had Rs 1.20 lakh when she left her home on June 29 last year. “This shows Udyan had managed to access her account. The murder-for-gain theory thus finds much more credence,” an investigating officer explained.
 
 Udyan visited Rajasthan and Delhi frequently after 2012 to meet Akansha. Call record details indicate she visited Bhopal a number of times, said police, adding that Udyan had “ecstatically” marked these occasions on the calendar with red ink. This revelation, too, raises question marks about the motive of the murder.
 
 “Thus the very claim by Udyan that he killed Akansha after he found out that she was still talking to her former boyfriends holds little ground. Call record details and messages on Akansha’s mobile before June 29, 2016, do not show the existence of any secret admirer,” said an officer.
 
 The plan to murder Akansha was not taken at the spur of the moment, police say. “Udyan was addicted to crime thrillers. He watched the 2013 film ‘Devil’s Knot’ several times and used the same methodology to kill Akansha,” said Bankura SP Sukhendu Hira.
 
 Udyan was questioned at the SP’s office over the last two days. “He did not break down even once during the interrogation. He even tried to lead us astray, saying he’d love to complete his higher studies. He ate egg curry with glee and loved all the Bengali dishes served to him thus far — rice with sukto, pumpkin curry and dal,” said a source.
 
 Police say there was a complex world that Udyan had created for himself — where he would spend lavishly and didn’t care for anyone but himself. He had no real friend all through his school life. “He was always teased for being short and dark-skinned. His mother pushed him into engineering although he liked arts, leading to his failing Class XI. This led to more teasing by schoolmates. Udyan believed that the only way he could stop his parents and the outside world from rebuking him was to get rich at any cost,” said an officer.
 
 It was this mentality that led Udyan to create over 110 fake email and Facebook accounts. “He would note down the email IDs and passwords and then use them to comment on his own posts. He even posted likes from different accounts just to portray that he was successful and accepted in life,” said a source.
 
 
