 has just won a Grammy. And it isn’t as strange as it may sound. American jazz saxophonist and composer Ted   transcribed the actual pitches and cadences of Nehru’s legendary oration on the eve of India’s Independence into an original score to win this year’s Grammy for ‘Best Instrumental Composition’

 “Long years ago we made a tryst with destiny… At the stroke of the midnight hour, when the world sleeps, India will awake to life and freedom”, as intonated by the first Prime Minister before the Constituent Assembly in Parliament, inspired the award-winning theme. 
 
 
  
 Nash took time out between rehearsals in New York for an email chat with TOI, to outline how he crafted melodic material from Nehru’s speech pattern to create the Grammy-winning piece titled ‘Spoken at Midnight’.
 
 “Nehru’s inaugural address, rich with passion and intelligence, expressed so colourfully the arrival of India’s independence. You can feel the emotion in his delivery. It gives you goosebumps” said Nash, describing why he found it so fascinating when he stumbled upon it five years ago. “He spoke in a very narrow range, so the resulting thematic material stayed contained to smaller intervals than that of the other speeches on the album.”
 
 ‘Spoken at Midnight’ is part of Nash’s spoken word and orchestral project titled ‘Presidential Suite: Eight Variations On Freedom’ that deftly blends eight jazz movements inspired from historic speeches by 20th century statesmen – John F. Kennedy, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Lyndon B. Johnson,  , Winston Churchill, Jawaharlal Nehru, Aung San Suu Kyi, and  . 
 
 “It’s amazing to win 'Best Instrumental Composition' because it fits not just into the jazz category but cuts across all genres of music,” Nash said.
 
 After transcribing Nehru’s Tryst with Destiny, he manipulated the lengths of the phrases to create a form that stayed in one harmonic place for four bars at a time. “That was tricky because nobody speaks in one particular key.” ‘Spoken at Midnight’ has an odd 7/4 time signature in keeping with 
 Indian classical meters, a bass line “both masculine and playful” and a texture of woodwinds and piano that gives the piece an “exotic quality”.
 The album – Presidential Suite – too, went on to win the Grammy for ‘Best Large Jazz Ensemble Album’ this year.
 
 “As I listened to hundreds of speeches, the ones that moved me the most dealt with freedom...Speaking can be very musical. Every sound has a musical pitch,” explained Nash, who has placed each of the addresses into musical contexts that embraced the character, location and era of the speaker.
 
 Eminent figures read out passages from the speech as a prologue to the musical piece. For ‘Spoken at Midnight’, Indian-American wellness expert Deepak Chopra, who met Nehru as a child, was asked to recite portions of the approximately 820-word address.
 
 The Presidential Suite, released during a contentious US presidential campaign, was meant as a “larger statement” in defence of democracy. “It is my hope that when people listen to it, they will investigate not only how far we’ve come in terms of human rights, but also how much we still have to do, especially now when we have a president trying to restrict freedom and take away people’s rights.” 
 
 Incidentally, the executive producer of the album is an Indian-American named Kabir Sehgal who echoes Nash’s thoughts. “I’m a proud American with Indian heritage. As son of immigrants from Punjab, at a time when immigrants are facing challenges in the United States, Ted’s piece is a timely reminder that powerful ideas come from everywhere.”
 
