CHENNAI: The 1993 hit ‘Mrs Doubtfire’ showed the world that men (well, at least Robin Williams’ character, Mrs Euphegenia Doubtfire) were just as good as women at taking care of children, home and hearth. A survey by a leading marriage website now confirms that most women want just that kind of man.

 Of the 14,000-plus participants from across the country who took part in the poll by  , 61% said they wanted partners who would help with household chores; only 38% felt it was not mandatory for men to chip in with  .
 
 Men who are graduates in arts or science had better start looking for a partner without losing a minute. Asked about educational qualifications they were looking for in prospective husbands, women gave them a clear thumbs-down, who preferred engineers, doctors or management professionals. Around 53% of women wanted their spouses-to-be to have an MBA or a degree in either engineering or medicine.
 
 Some 6% of the women polled wanted postgraduates as husbands and roughly the same number said they’d be comfortable with graduates.
 
 Men, on the other hand, seem to be less picky about degrees. An overwhelming 54% of men polled said they were indifferent to their wife’s educational qualifications: 23% wanted graduates and 17% wanted women with MBA, BE or MBBS degrees.
 
 In a world with an obsessive selfie culture, do people still place a premium on good looks? The survey revealed that looks do matter for an overwhelming majority of men (93%) and an almost equivalent number of women (87%).
 
 Career, the survey showed, is important when it comes to choosing one’s better half. Around 62% of men said that a wife’s willingness to relocate to another city was important to them. More women (74%) wanted their partners to stay close to the city they live in, than men (68%). As many as 89% of women respondents said support from their partners was crucial for a successful marriage.
 
 A large number (51%) of men wanted partners who had full-time jobs, versus a much smaller 17% who wanted wives to have part-time employment. A sizeable number (30%) wanted their wives to be homemakers.
 
 Despite a rise in pay for public sector jobs, more Indian women (57%) rooted for husbands working in private firms versus those (33%) who wanted a husband to have a government job. The survey found that 63% of women wanted their partner to own a house; 31% said it was unimportant.
 
 Sharing common interests seemed more important to women (84%) than men (75%). The poll showed 54% of men were okay with an age difference of four years and 26% with an age difference of five; 65% of women were fine with an age difference of four years and 23% with an age difference of two.
 
 BharatMatrimony.com polled only one sex for some questions. It asked only women the questions, “Is your partner’s support for your career important post-marriage?” and “Does your partner need to own a house?” It also asked only men the question, “Is your partner’s willingness to relocate to another city important to you?”
 
