SRIKAKULAM:   and   as  , around 6,000 people from 29 villages of Hiramandalam and Kottur mandals in   to at least a dozen vehicles belonging to   to protest against the Vamsadhara irrigation project on Sunday. 

 The 29 villages include Tulagam, Pedda Sankili, Parapuram, Gotta, Garlapadu, Tulagam, Dugupuram, Pedda Dimili and Irapadu and other surrounding villages. 
 
 Nearly 500 police personnel were deployed at the two mandals to control the crowd, but they were out numbered by the protesters.
 
 The protesters, including women, children, youth and senior citizens, gathered at the Vamsadhara irrigation project construction site to condemn the government's failure to release their compensation and implement the new relief and rehabilitation packages for the displaced persons.
 
 They entered the firm's office, ransacked the tents and residences of the company staff and damaged the furniture and set the vehicles on fire. They also accused the government of planning to speed up the pending works without clearing the compensation amount.
 
 According to sources, the project began in 2006 at an estimated cost of 930 crore to store nearly 9 TMC of water collected from Vamsadhara river. Nearly 6,000 acres of agriculture land belonging to around 10,000 farmers of the 29 villages were taken by the government against a compensation of 1.5 lakh for each acre. But so far, no compensation has been given, the sources added. 
 
 Moreover, during a recent visit, irrigation minister Devineni Uma Maheswara Rao told the officials concerned to complete the project by June this year at any cost. Following this, local minister K Atchennaidu told the officials to adhere to the deadline and take help of the police if any displaced person tries to obstruct the project, sources said.
 
 When contacted, Srikakulam collector P Lakshmi Narasimham said, "I have called the local field officers for a meeting to inquire about the project work. I can't comment anything on it without analysing the incident thoroughly."
 
 Nearly 6,000 acres of agriculture land belonging to around 10,000 farmers of the 29 villages including Tulagam, Pedda Sankili, Parapuram, Gotta, Garlapadu, Tulagam, Dugupuram, Pedda Dimili and Irapadu were taken by the AP government against a compensation of 1.5 lakh for each acre. But so far, no compensation has been given to the oustees.
 
