NEW DELHI: The news of killing of Murshid Mohammed, one of the 17 missing Kerala youths who had joined   terror organisation and travelled to   territory in   via Teheran in mid-2016, was broken to his father by a woman identifying herself as his wife Mughira. Murshid (24), was unmarried when he left for ‘hijra’ to the Islamic State-controlled Nangarhar province of Afghanistan.

 Mughira informed Mohammed Haider, a native of Kasaragod in Kerala, through Whatsapp text messages sent on April 12 and 13 from Afghanistan that his son and her husband Murshid was killed on April 11. Murshid’s death, supposedly in a drone strike, came two months after another ‘missing’ youth from Kerala, T K Hafesudheen, was killed by a drone in Afghanistan.
 
 Murshid had flown to Teheran from UAE, where he was working at the time of joining IS, on June 1, 2016. He then joined other fellow youths from Kerala, who had come via the Gulf, to reach Afghanistan. Intelligence agencies believe Murshid may have got married in Nangarhar itself and that his wife Mughira could possibly be an IS recruit or sympathiser.
 
 Though Murshid was killed a couple of days before the US dropped the   on IS-infested caves in Nangarhar, agencies are trying to ascertain the fate of the other ‘missing’ Keralites, including mastermind Abdul Rashid, based in the same province.
 
 According to an NIA chargesheet filed in January in the case relating to missing IS recruits from Kerala, the mobile communication made by the absconding accused with their relatives, over internet-based social media platforms, and unearthed during the course of NIA probe established that the absconding accused Mohammed Sajid Kuthirrumal was staying at same place as Murshid. It confirmed that Sajid and Murshid, along with other absconding accused Abdul Rashid, Dr Ijas Kallukettiya Purayil, Mohd Marwan Becker Ismail and Shihas Kallukettiya Purayil are with IS and that they have been instigating others to join them.
 
 Agencies are following field reports as well as incoming traffic of messages on the mobile phones of relatives of the absconding accused for apossible update on fate of those missing from Kerala, which include 4 women and 4 children. One of the women who was pregnant at the time of fleeing India is believed to have delivered a child in IS territory.
 
 The IS recruits, who hail from Palakkad and Kasaragod, took care to travel to Teheran from Dubai and Muscat in separate batches of 1-2 (except families accompanied by children) over a month’s time so as not to arouse suspicion. All their international travel was on tourist visas, giving no reason for immigration authorities at home or in the countries of destination to suspect that they were headed for the IS territory.
 
 Stating that the missing Keralites had joined IS in Nangarhar, Afghanistan, the NIA chargesheet notes that “the accused...are continuing their anti-national activities by propagating the ideology of and inviting support for ISIS, through various means including, but not limited to, internet-based social media platforms”.
 
 
