NAGPUR: The residents of Shivaji Nagar were in for a surprise on Tuesday morning when first-time   corporator Bunty Shelke entered the nullah with ‘phawda’ (hoe) in his hand with a team of around 50 workers. Also followed were trolleys to lift the silt from the nullah, which is also a tributary of Nag River.

 Shelke led the cleanliness drive in the area. He alleged that despite Gandhibagh zone being in the neighbourhood, the residents faced inconvenience related to uncleanliness and unhygienic conditions that prevail in this part of the city daily.
 
 He blamed the unhygienic condition due to irregularities in the health department. According to him, the   had appointed 83 sanitary workers for the ward. Of these, 23 posts were vacant, while 60 were supposed to be on duty. “But from March 16 and 21, as many as 15 sanitary workers remained absent without any intimation,” he claimed. He has also lodged a complaint with the NMC’s health officer (sanitation) Dr Pradip Dasarwar.
 
 Shelke said his sole motive was to clean the area. “I am going to request the Mayor to ensure better cleanliness in this locality. Despite the   office in close vicinity, it is in a pathetic state. Residents from our area were complaining so we decided to clean the nullah.” 
 
 Residents too pointed out that due to lack of cleanliness, mosquito-borne diseases have increased manifold.
 
 In fact, people residing along the nullah too pointed out that they were fed up of the decaying garbage and the nauseating smell. “Its depth too has reduced at many places,” pointed out Suresh Tidke, a resident. 
 
 Residents said the situation arose due to the irregular garbage collection by sanitary workers. “We have to wait two to three days for them (sanitation workers) to collect garbage,” irked residents said. Left with no option, many residents, especially shopkeepers here, are dumping garbage in the nullah.
 
 “We cannot open windows and doors due to the stink and mosquitoes”, said Manoj Joshi another resident. “Families residing in the area are frequently falling ill,” he claimed.
 
 Dr Pradip Dasarwar assured to look in to the matter.
 
