NEW DELHI: Monday is likely to be a near-normal working day in the capital after Jat protesters called off their plan to lay siege to Parliament, following a truce reached after a marathon meeting between community leaders and the Haryana government on Sunday.

 However, commuters to central Delhi may face jams. While the travel ban in Lutyens’ Delhi has been lifted, vehicles entering the area would be subjected to security checks, police said. This may cause snarls around India Gate, Parliament Street and Lok Kalyan Marg, the traffic police warned.
 
 Police said there would not be any restrictions for candidates heading to CBSE and UPSC examination centres across the city. Late in the evening, police also lifted all curbs on commuters getting in or exiting from the Patel Chowk, Central Secretariat, Udyog Bhawan and Lok Kalyan Marg Metro stations.
 
 Other curbs on movement of   and local trains that were imposed in the view of the agitation have been revoked.
 
 Police commissioner Amulya Patnaik asked his men to be on alert through Monday to avoid any untoward incident.   spokesperson and special commissioner (operations) Dependra Pathak said the restrictions on public transportation have been removed though the no-exit policies on some of the metro stations would remain in place. 
 
 Delhi Metro later said that even these restrictions had been lifted. "There will be no relaxation of the three-tier security around the city, but we will ensure that there is minimum inconvenience for the public during peak hours," said Pathak. 
 
 The security apparatus at the border areas would remain intact, but the forces have been asked to be on a wait-and-watch mode. All vehicles entering Delhi would be allowed to pass unless cops find something suspicious. 
 
 CRPF, Rapid Action Forces and ITBP personnel have been posted at 20 sensitive border posts. Cops suspect that criminals posing as fringe groups of agitators might create ruckus at some of the border roads to prevent essential supplies from entering the city. 
 
 Meanwhile, traffic jams were reported through Sunday from several parts of city and NCR as police stepped up deployment, particularly at borders. Traffic on the Noida-Link Road, NH-24, Badarpur Road and Delhi-Rohtak road remained slow through the day due to the intense checking. 
 
 “It took me nearly two hours to drive from Noida Sector 20 to Connaught Place. There were severe parking problems around   due to the restricted entry. Though the ban has been lifted, I plan to travel by Metro on Monday," said Manvi Sethi, an IT professional. 
 
 Netizens took to social networking sites to inquire about snarl-free routes in the NCR through the day. 
 
 “I have an examination at a centre near Asaf Ali Road on Monday. I have planned my schedule three hours in advance to reach early,” said Atul Kumar in one of the posts. Joint commissioner (traffic) Garima Bhatnagar said though the restrictions on public vehicles have been lifted, commuters are requested to avoid passing through   unless absolutely necessary as barricades would be put up at different places which may cause snarls during peak hours on Monday. “Priority passage would be given to those appearing for exams or interviews,” she said.
 
