NEW DELHI: The war of words between US President   and North Korean leader  , ongoing for over a month, saw increasingly colourful rhetoric on Friday.

 Here is a chronological look at the exchange between leaders of the two countries from the beginning of August:
 
 
 
 President Trump threatens to rain   with "fire and fury" if it continues to threaten the US.
 
 "North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States. They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen," Trump said.
 
 
 
 North Korea warns that it will strike and create "an enveloping fire" around  , a Pacific island with US military bases. The hermit kingdom goes further and calls Trump's comments a "load of nonsense."
 
 
 
 Trump reacts by toughening the rhetoric, charges that perhaps his threat of "fire and fury" was "not tough enough."
 
 "It's about time that somebody stuck up for the people of this country and for the people of other countries. So if anything, maybe that statement wasn't tough enough," he said.
 
 
 
 Trump follows up his comments from the previous day with a tweet, warning North Korea that military solutions are "locked and loaded."
 
 "Military solutions are now fully in place, locked and loaded,should North Korea act unwisely. Hopefully Kim Jong Un will find another path!" his tweet said.
 
  
  
 
 
 In an apparent signal toward defusing tensions between the two countries, North Korea announces that its military has come up with plans to launch intermediate-range missiles near Guam to "wring the windpipes of the Yankees," but will hold off on them - atleast temporarily.
 
 Leader Kim Jong-un appreciates the military, but says he will watch the "foolish and stupid conduct of the Yankees" for some more time before finalising whether to order the test.
 
 
 
 After a month-long lull, the war of words picks up again with Trump's maiden appearance at the   (UNGA).
 
 In his speech, the American President warns the hermit kingdom that if the US's "great strength and patience" run out, it could "totally destroy North Korea."
 
 "The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea," Trump said.
 
 Trump also refers to Kim Jong-un as "Rocket Man" and claims that the North Korean dictator is on a "suicide mission for himself."
 
 
 
 Asked to react to Trump's UN speech, North Korean foreign minister Ri Yong-ho responds by quoting a proverb: "There is a saying that marching goes on even when dogs bark. If they are trying to shock us with the sound of a dog's bark they are clearly having a dog dream."
 
 
 
 North Korea's Supreme Leader Kim Jong-un releases a statement, reacting to Trump's speech.
 
 Trump "made unprecedented rude nonsense one has never heard from any of his predecessors," Kim said.
 
 The strong statement goes further to say "a frightened dog barks louder."
 
 Cautioning Trump against "mentally deranged behavior," Kim advises the American President "to exercise prudence in selecting words." 
 
 The statement warns of serious implications, saying that "action is the best option in treating the dotard." Kim threatens that Trump will "pay dearly for his speech calling for totally destroying the DPRK."
 
 "I will surely and definitely tame the mentally deranged U. S. dotard with fire," he concludes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
