TRICHY: While it is usual for the public to approach the   with their grievance,   has been seeing a reversal of roles for the past few days. The municipal   there has been making a door-to-door visit meeting residents and politely asking them to pay their tax dues. What adds a touch of desperation to the proceedings is that the commissioner, 57-year-old A R  , is differently abled.

 With only a week left for the last date to submit tax collection report,   municipality officials have been working overtime to get tax dues collected. There has been very poor response from the public this year, say officials as the tax revenue stands at a mere 67 per cent. What has made things difficult is that one of the four bill collectors is away from work because of an illness. While it looked almost impossible to achieve the targeted revenue collection of Rs 1.03 crore, the municipal commissioner A R Pappammal decided to take on the onus by herself and decided to hit the street. 
 
 Having started her career as a junior assistant and risen to the top post after 31 years, Pappammal is still relentless and unmindful of being a differently abled. “Response has been very poor from residents especially from seven of the 27 wards in the municipality despite widespread advertisement. We are focusing on these areas,” says Pappammal who was afflicted by polio during her childhood. 
 
 A majority of the dues is of water tax which runs to the tune of Rs 56 lakh followed by property tax of Rs 46 lakh. “We have been using public address system to warn them against disconnection of water if they fail to pay the tax,” said the commissioner who is due for retirement next year.
 
 Needless to say that many residents in the municipality were taken aback seeing the municipal commissioner at their door step. “Some of them agree to pay on the spot after identifying me but some still offer excuses to postpone even after waiting for a whole year,” she says. The municipality collected drinking water tax of Rs 912 which can be paid in four installments. 
 
 “The same thing happened last year too but we could achieve 93 per cent of the collection after an intense campaign. We are hoping to improve our performance this year,” said Pappammal who was previously commissioner of   municipality before taking charge at Manapparai over two years ago. “Seeing the commissioner work in the field despite her disability makes us feel guilty but it is also encouraging in a sense,” says a bill collector. We would certainly outnumber the collection compared to the previous year, he promised.
 
