GREATER NOIDA: Bearing the brunt of change in   at home and given their reluctance to open accounts in  , the   in India are facing trouble in procuring the Indian rupee.

 Since Nigeria decided to stop providing foreign exchange to students studying abroad, the students have been complaining about being unable to procure Indian currency from Indian ATMs necessary for their day-to-day expenses.
 
 The latest example of the issue of being unable to deposit money at educational institutes at Greater Noida has been witnessed at the Noida International University where around 50 Nigerian students did not receive their   for semester exams due to  , student claimed.
 
 “Our fee is around Rs 42000 per semester. Apart from that, we also have to pay Rs 1000 as exam form fee about a week before the beginning of the exams. We will get an admit card only if we deposit the semester fees and the exam form fee. This time, many Nigerian students could not get their admit cards because they had not paid the fees,” said a second year student of B.Tech (IT).
 
 Some Nigerian students could not sit for the semester exams which began on Tuesday.
 
 “At least 18 Nigerian students could not sit for the exams on Tuesday. In total, at least 50 Nigerians have not got their admit cards this year,” said a student of B.Tech (Civil Engineering) who did not get an admit card.
 
 He said that he did not know if he would be allowed to give the exam in the future.
 
 Students say that the problem has increased since the Nigerian government put a ban on the usage of Naira-denominated Nigerian-bank debit cards by students in other countries in December 2015.
 
 This leaves students only with three options: either use Western Union Money Transfer (WUMT), POS swipe from banks which allow one-time cash withdrawal or the Nigerian agents who extort commission from the students in lieu of Indian currency.
 
 The students are reluctant to open an account in an Indian bank due to the documentation required (resident permit, PAN Card, etc). Many locals have complained about the foreigners overstaying in India on expired visas. Only foreigners having valid visa are given resident permit.
 
 Both the WUMT and POS swipe at banks have limited transactions to a month, students say.
 
 On the other hand, the agents, have collusion with the bank officials of Nigeria and some of them even have accounts in both Nigeria and India-which helps them to procure the Indian currency.
 
 “If one rupee changes into five Niera in normal foreign exchange, the agents charge us between six-seven Niera for a rupee, keeping the rest of the money as commission. There are many of these who have accounts in Indian banks as well. It is easier for them to get the Indian currency,” said a student of B.tech (IT).
 
 Meanwhile, the university said that students have been debarred because of low attendance and the pending dues. “We have debarred many students for low attendance and pending dues as per university norms,” said a senior official on condition of anonymity.
 
 Students said that they met senior officials at the registrar office last Wednesday but they expressed helplessness in extending any help.
 
