AHMEDABAD: More than 300   (SAC) scientists were ecstatic when 104 satellites were launched by Isro’s warhorse PSLV C37 on Wednesday. Though the mission in itself set a world record, four of the payloads in particular are dear to SAC. One of these was the   fitted in Isro’s Nano Satellite INS 1B, which announced India’s entry into the satellite miniaturization frontier and the country’s capability to fabricate super thin optics, to be used in CubeSat, a type of tiny low-cost satellite.

  The Origami camera (named after the Japanese art of folding a paper into decorative shapes), folds light, or reflects it over and over to squeeze a picture to unprecedented levels of magnification and resolution. SAC director Tapan Misra said in an official note: “The technique can flatten conventional telescopes by a factor of 10-20.” This technology could revolutionize imaging devices used for search and rescue operations and tracking. 
 
 Another of Isro’s nano satellites, INS 1A, has a SAC-built camera that measures target illumination properties at different Sun illumination angles. Then there is a high resolution camera on Cartosat 2S which has several capabilities. Sub-metre imaging is one among them, said Misra. He said, “This PSLV launch created another historic chapter: It had eight cameras taking selfies! Watching all separations and jettisoning of satellites.” 
 
 One may ask how 104 satellites were launched without any collision. Misra said, “For launching the largest flock of 88 satellites, the last stage, the fourth stage of the PSLV, with thrust cut-off, was rotated at 90 degrees. This stage gave a slow spin around the vertical axis.” He said the small satellites were launched one after another and because of the spin, each satellite was ejected at different angles. He said that the principle used was that a small difference in velocities along the orbit changed the heights of individual orbits as well. “If the satellite is ejected along the orbit, it will have the highest altitude. If ejected opposite the orbit direction, it will have lowest altitude,” Misra said. 
 
 Darshana Jamindar, the wife of Vilas Jaminadar, a scientist at   residing in  , said: “For many days, dinner table conversations centered around this prestigious launch and we were ecstatic when it happened successfully.” 
 
 
