HYDERABAD: From playing tennis ball cricket in the streets of   to being signed up by defending champions   for Rs 4 crore, 18-year-old legspinner   has come a long way .

 And from streets with no names to facilities that simply didn't exist, Rashid has seen it all in a hectic year as the Afghans traversed the cricketing world plying their brand of cricket.
 
 “Four to five years ago, we didn't have any facility to play cricket,“ Rashid, a fastish leggie in the mould of Shahid Afridi -whom he idolises -told TOI after joining the SRH camp on Monday .“But now there are around four or five where we can play . There is an academy in every province. The facilities are improving day by day and hopefully in two years, it will be better,“ he added.
 
 Following the auction from Harare was nerve-wracking, he said.The bidding war that ensued was a major surprise for him. “When the auction was in progress, I felt the pressure because I didn't know how it would go. But thank God, I got selected. My expectation was to be part of  . I didn't expect that price. I watched Imran Tahir not being picked by any team and was thinking if the No.1 bowler is not taken by any franchise, why would I be picked? But the bidding war was a surprise for me.“
 
 With a googly that is difficult to pick, Rashid has aroused the curiosity of rivals. “It's a great feeling to be with champions of last year's IPL. Apart from great coaches like VVS Laxman, Tom Moody and Muralitharan, we have some wonderful players like Yuvraj Singh, Dhawan, David Warner and Kane Williamson. It is a great opportunity to learn from their experience,“ said Rashid, who wants to pick Murali's brain. “I will try my best to learn from him (Murali).“
 
 Rashid rated the innings win over Ireland in the Intercontinental Cup highly and said   were ready for Test debut. The leggie had a match haul of eight for 143 in that match in Greater Noida.
 
 “We were down in the standings and they were on top. We drew one match with Scotland due to rain. We had to win this match to top the table. The boys worked hard and their only target was to win by an innings. If you look at the last two years, we have been playing better cricket. We are capable of doing it and hopefully we will get it (Test status).“
 
 
