JAIPUR: Eight districts have been identified to bring down   (NMR). In the state, 32 infants out of 1,000   before they are 28 days old. Now, targeting to reduce it, the   has decided to prepare   to reduce neonatal mortalities in the state. 

 The   mortality rate in the state is 41 deaths per 1,000 live births. It means that 41 infants die before attaining one year of age in the state. But, out of 41, 32 infants die before attaining 28 days of age. Now, as the neonatal mortality rate is one of the reasons of high infant mortality rate, the health department has now decided to bring down neonatal mortality so that it will inevitably bring down IMR in the state.
 
 Under the project, the health department will strengthen healthcare services in the eight districts for pregnant women and neonates, a health department official said.
 
 The districts, which have been identified, are Barmer, Dholpur, Karauli, Jalore, Rajsamand, Sawai Madhopur, Sirohi and Udaipur. Officials said that these districts have been taken up as they need improvement in infrastructure, human resources and service delivery for maternal and neonates care. The health department will strengthen healthcare services in the eight districts with focused approach. The health department has developed an action plan to reduce neonatal mortalities in the state.
 
 Health department principal secretary Veenu Gupta said according to sample registration survey conducted by the Centre, the NMR in the state is 32 deaths per 1,000 live births. "We are targeting to bring it down to 12 per 1,000 live births by 2030," she said adding that for the purpose, they have to improve facilities in neonates units, delivery rooms also referral services will also need to improve.
 
 There is also a need of availability of doctors and healthcare staff and infrastructure. The health department will launch 'Chirayu- Nanhi jaan, hamari shaan' to improve healthcare facilities for neonates.
 
 Officials said that in the eight identified districts, there are 556 newborn care corner (NBCC), 47 newborn stabilisation units (NBSU) and 13 sick newborn care units (SNCUs) are situated.
 
 
