NAGPUR: The   ( ) conducted its final exam of Class X on Saturday, after which the students heaved a sigh of relief.

 Students were mostly just happy to be done with their exams. A lot of students were slightly worried as the last paper  , is considered as lengthy and tough. But they were in for a pleasant surprise as the paper was time-efficient and easy to solve.
 
 “The paper was moderate. All the questions were from the textbook, so nothing was unexpected. I was able to solve it quite easily. I am also quite satisfied with how it went. It was a good paper set by the CBSE,” said student Atharva Pingle.
 
 Sahil Bhojne said, “The exam went quite well. It was well balanced; not too tough or too easy. There were a few questions which required high order thinking but that is okay and expected from the CBSE. Besides, there were a few indirect questions too, but those who studied the textbook well were able to write answers. It was heavily textbook-based.”
 
 “There was no difficulty level whatsoever in this exam. We had studied and crammed so much for this paper, but it was of no use. It didn’t require much thinking. If you had memorized the textbook well, you’d be able to solve it. It was really very easy. We are all very satisfied with the exam. We are also glad that our exams ended on an excellent note,” said Akash Dhole. 
 
 “It was a medium level exam. Nothing too difficult and nothing too easy. It was heavily textbook-based; so that was a good thing. I don’t usually do well with non-textbook questions. I am just glad that the last exam was not too scary,” said Renuka Joshi.
 
 Aditya Solani said, “It was a very easy exam. I was able to finish it before time, which is highly unusual. The questions asked were very easy and direct too. Most of them was from the textbook; so I could attempt it all. I am just glad to get over with exams.”
 
 Maya Mukherjee, a teacher at Centre Point School, Katol Road, said, “There were three sets given to the students. From what I understand, set 3 was relatively easier. I also feel that the question paper had really simple and direct questions. If the students had studied really well, then the paper must have been a child’s play for them.” 
 
 Paper analysis - 
 
 Paper toughness: medium 
 
 Questions relevance - straight forward 
 
 Paper Length - proper 
 
