GUWAHATI: The All Assam Students' Union (Aasu) has locked horns with chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal for the alleged failure of the home department to nab  , the prime accused in the   vandalism case, who is still at large. 

 Biswas, the president of   (NBBUSS), had allegedly instigated a mob to attack the Silapathar office of Aasu on March 6. 
 
 Even as a public hearing was held in Silapathar town in Dhemaji district on Tuesday in the presence of state's additional chief secretary VB Pyarelal, who is probing into the matter, Aasu and other organizations have intensified their protest demanding arrest of Biswas. 
 
 "During the hearing, we informed the additional chief secretary that the state government has gone soft on Biswas as he (Biswas) is hand-in-glove with many senior BJP leaders and even Union cabinet ministers. Their hidden agenda is to protect the interest of Hindu immigrants," said Chittaranjan Basumatary, Aasu's central organizing secretary, who represented the student's body in the hearing.
 
 Aasu has sniffed a conspiracy behind organizing the NBBUSS convention in Dhemaji district which has few   immigrants compared to other districts of Assam bordering Bangladesh.
 
 Along with Aasu, Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP), All Tai Ahom Students' Union (Atasu) and Takam Mising Porin Kebang (TMPK) also took part in the hearing. Several local organizations, including members of the Bengali Hindu community, also took part in it.
 
 Significantly, members of the Bengali Samaj have demanded action against NBBUSS which has been uniting the members of the Bengali-Hindu community to press for granting citizenship to Bengali-Hindu immigrants. Aasu, on the other hand, has been vocal against illegal infiltration to the state for several decades. 
 
 The state government has constituted a one-man inquiry committee, headed by Pyarelal, to probe into the circumstances leading to the violence within a month. The committee will ascertain the facts and circumstances leading to the Silapathar incident to find out whether any individual or organisation is involved in the violence.
 
 Even as Sonowal pledged action against the culprits involved in vandalising the office of the all powerful students' body, Aasu and other organizations staged protests at Golaghat, Majuli, Dibrugarh, Namrup, Naharkatia, Lakhimpur and other parts of upper Assam on Tuesday demanding Biswas's arrest. Life was paralysed in neighbouring Lakhimpur district where the Brihattar Asomiya Yuva Mancha called a 12-hour bandh on Tuesday. 
 
