BENGALURU:   say they are shocked by the Karnataka government's decision to place an upper limit of Rs 200 for a seat, a move that is expected to come into effect after the byelection on April 9. Some multiplex chains indicated that they may challenge the move legally.

 If implemented, the move could also hurt malls. Multiplexes bring footfalls into malls and sustain other businesses like food courts. “Such a law will have a deeper ramification than just the profitability of multiplex chains. Modern day malls are designed around multiplexes, which are their anchor tenants,“ said  , partner and head for media and entertainment at audit firm KPMG.
 
 Bengaluru-based real estate group   that runs eight malls across South India with multiplexes, including the popular Forum, called it a misguided step. “Multiplex operators' investment in the city was based on expectation of a certain return and this will hurt their business models. They would want to wait and watch how business works out with the new pricing model, before making new investments. If it hits their business, they will come back to me to renegotiate rentals,“ said Irfan Razack, chairman and manag ing director of Prestige.
 
 Experts say that Bengaluru will see fewer multiplexes coming up in the city. Chennai, which capped cinema rates at Rs 120 in 2007, does not have many multiplexes. The country's two largest players ­ PVR and Inox ­ have eight multiplexes each in Bengaluru whereas they have just two each in Chennai, a city that's probably more crazy about films than most. The city's largest multiplex operator,  , runs only six multiplexes in the city.
 
 “This price cap in Tamil Nadu has even resulted in Telugu cinema collections becoming much better than Tamil ones in recent times,“ said Thakkar, indicating that even the Kannada film industry will be hurt by a pricing cap.
 
 Razack said cleanliness and service quality at multiplexes will suffer. “Do we want multiplexes to decline like single screens?“ he wonders.
 
 However, a multiplex owner in Chennai who did not want to be identified, said he cannot remember doing business without a cap on prices and his business model, including rental agreement with malls, had always factored in the cap in pricing. “But it does affect our growth and we could have done better with higher prices,“ he said.
 
 For every Rs 100 ticket, 45%50% is usually the producer or distributor's share and another 10%-15% goes to the state exchequer as entertainment tax. In Karnataka, entertainment tax on non-regional language films stands at 30%. That leaves multiplexes with Rs 40-45 per ticket or even less. For gold class and Imax screens, multiplexes charge between Rs 500 and Rs 750, depending on the mall location and whether it's a weekday or weekend. Those provide greater returns.
 
 In recent times, malls and multiplexes have been enter ing revenue share agreements rather than having fixed rental models. So, if multiplex revenue drops, so will that of malls. Brigade Group, which runs the Orion malls in the city, felt the government might provide for higher rates for gold class and Imax screens. Brigade's agreement with multiplexes is for a minimum guarantee or revenue share of 12%-17% of the multiplex revenue, whichever is greater.
 
 “It is still early to predict the fall in revenue but we think that some of it will be offset by higher footfalls at our malls as well as greater occupancy at multiplexes,“ said Vishal Mirchandani, CEO of retail and commercial at Brigade Enterprises.
 
