NEW DELHI: Monu Dariyapur’s wife, Raj Rani, said she was no stranger to violence. Since Monu alias Bhupendra, who was killed in an alleged   on Sunday, wooed her to marry him a decade ago, her cousin, Sonu Dariyapur, had been out to take revenge, said Rani. The family claimed that it was a  .

 Both Rani and Monu had escaped death narrowly in 2006 when they were attacked by Sonu and his friends while going to   police station to seek security. 
 
 Recalling those days, Rani said that after their families agreed to their marriage in 2006, Sonu started creating trouble. “Sonu was against the marriage as we came from the same village. Our families overlooked the issue, but Sonu tried to create a rift between the two families,” she said. 
 
 After failing to create any rift, Sonu started giving them death threats. “Afraid that he might harm us and our families, we decided to lodge a complaint. On our way to the Punjabi Bagh police station on October 9, 2006, Sonu and his friends shot at us. Our driver died,” she said. Rani herself was shot at thrice and Monu was fired upon seven times. “Despite all odds, we got married on August 20, 2007,” said Rani, the mother of a nine-year-old boy. 
 
 But on October 9, 2009, Sonu killed her brother-in-law, Sudhir Kumar. “Ever since, we have been getting threats. A woman PSO was assigned to me but the police withdraw her whenever they feel like,” she said.
 
 Family members described Monu as a happy-go-lucky man who lived life to the fullest and had been keeping away from crime. “My son had a few cases against him in the past because he fell in bad company but after his son was born, he stayed away from crime,” said Phool Singh, Monu’s father. “We were not even told about the incident. It is through social media that we got to know about it.” 
 
 He said Monu was so particular about his security that he did not even step out of the house without his PSOs. “He was constantly under threat.”
 
 Monu even had a YouTube channel on which he posted videos of his revelry and singing with his close friends. His most recent post showed him singing and dancing with a Haryana-cadre IPS officer. His Facebook account suggests that he was fond of cooking. 
 
