HALLIA (MIRZAPUR): Known for raising their head fearlessly against the British in 1831-32,   are a victim of circumstances. Proud of their history and connection with Lord Rama (as descendants of Shabari), they start a battle against extreme poverty and joblessness every morning but return empty-handed.

  was better off than many of his community in 1971 because he owned five bighas land. In 1973, the land was acquired for the Adwa Dam project. “There was resentment among farmers, so then Prime Minister   promised equal land in return,“ said Sudeep who lends his face to 900 others. As representatives of various political parties rally behind him ahead of the elections, they wonder if her grandson Rahul can fulfil Indira's promise. “My patta was fixed by Indira Gandhi and though her party is not in power in UP, her grandson came here with chief minister  , so let us see if he can fulfil his grandmother's promise,“ said Prabhu Lal. In the past 40 years, these farmers have represented the matter to local administration, fell on the feet of bureaucrats and pleaded to politicians but to no avail. “All our papers are in place but we couldn't get possession because the property is encroached by musclemen,“ said Prabhu.
 
 Elders continue to try and are waiting, while the younger generation is fast migrating. Prabhu Lal, son of Rajesh has started working as a security personnel in Mumbai. “I want my land back so that we can grow crops and get food. We are farmers who have turned into beggars because we have not got our rightful due,“ rued Sudeep who works as a labour to meet the ends.“We go hungry whenever I cannot work,“ he said.
 
 Influenced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's emotional discourse during his radio talk `Mann Ki Baat', Kols want to plead at this doorstep but are scared of the musclemen who have encroached their land. “We are planning to write to the PM as some of us may lose our life in the rebellion against musclemen,“ said Sudeep.
 
 
 
 
 Poverty has pushed almost every Kol in Hallia into the trap of private moneylenders. “The rate (of interest) is Rs12-15 per Rs100 per month in lieu of guarantee,“ said Sudeep Kol who can never understand the mathematics of interest levied on him.
 
 A pradhan working against money lending explained how the borrower ends up repaying several times more. “The interest is charged on the amount as Rs150 per 100 per month for the time period borrowed, so if a person borrows Rs1,000 from the moneylender at the rate of Rs15 per hundred per month for one year. He pays Rs150 per month as interest in addition to the instalment,“ he said.
 
 So in one year, the borrower ends up paying Rs1,800 as interest, 80% more than the amount taken. Adding the original amount borrowed takes the payment made Rs2,800. Defaulters pay even more because they pay the moneylender charges for time period extended. Chances are that borrower will lose the guarantee mortgaged.
 
 
