BENGALURU: Two new contraceptives -one an injectable drug and the other an oral pill -have not only increased the options available for women but also promise to be upgraded versions of their existing alternatives.They come with added benefits like decreasing menstrual bleeding and prolonging the time between two period cycles. The drugs were recently aunched by the department of health and family welfare under Mission Parivar Vikas n Karnataka, Maharashtra,  ,  ,  , Haryana, West Bengal, Odisha, Delhi and Goa.Said to be an improvement over the government owned Mala-N, the daily oral contraceptive available at present, the pill, Chayya, has o be taken twice a week for he first three months of the course, and then once a week ill whenever the woman wishes to not conceive. One hot of the injectable drug, Antara, which can be admin istered to any part of the body, will be effective for three months.

 While Chayya is available free of cost at all sub-centres and public health centres ( ) and can be procured from   (ASHAs), Antara is available at district headquar ters, district hospitals, medical colleges, PHCs and hospitals BBMP-run hospitals.
 
 Citing government research, Dr Rajkumar N, deputy director (maternal health and family welfare) and research officer, said the new contraceptives have been found to decrease menstrual bleeding by reducing hormone production. They also increase the menstrual cycle from 28 days to 30-31 days.This reduces the overall strain during menstruation.
 
 He said they are planning publicity and awareness campaigns to make the drugs popular.
 
 
 
 
 All healthcare work ers were trained at day-long capacitybuilding workshops and given manuals which they can use while counselling clients on the options available. A nationallevel workshop was held in Delhi to educate state-level officials, who in turn were entrusted to train district-level officials and others.
 
 “Auxiliary nurses, midwives, medical officers and obstetricians received training about the new medications. To advise others, they themselves have to be updated about innovations. An orientation workshop was held at the state level,“ said Dr Rajkumar, deputy director, maternal health and family welfare.
 
 
 
 
 The government's attempt to check India's burgeoning population by expanding contraceptive choices is laudable.Easily accessible and promising an array of health benefits, the drugs are likely to find many takers in rural areas, given women's reliance on traditional methods of birth control. Considered safer than emergency contraceptive pills, the medicines will help reduce the incidence of unplanned pregnancies and abortions.The government needs to aggressively market the contraceptives, even in urban areas, and educate couples of their pros and cons to help them make an informed decision.
 
