If not for the court records that prove it, the saga of YN Krishna Murthy would be hard to believe. Over the last three decades, he has been removed from his job as an assistant sales officer by his employer, Karnataka   Industries Corporation, no less than six times. Citing that the termination was on flimsy and illegal grounds, he has approached the High Court and won the case each of the six times. The latest and the sixth victory came on September 20. In the process, the corporation was fined three times by the court and ordered to pay Murthy back wages and consequential benefits.

 The High Court noted that Murthy was being “repeatedly victimised” by the corporation which was “behaving unfairly, unjustly and unreasonably” towards him. He was removed from the job on a vague allegation that he was a ‘bad employee’, but the HC said that “even if the respondents claim that the petitioner is a bad employee, even then, the procedure of law cannot be violated, and the petitioner cannot be removed from his service by colourable exercise of power.”
 
 Murthy is now 49. He was appointed as an assistant sales officer in the corporation on September 11, 1987. His probation period, which was initially for one year, was extended till March 1994 citing that his performance was not satisfactory. At the end of that period, he was terminated from the job. He approached the High Court against this dismissal. There was an appeal in the case and when there was a division of opinion of the two judges, a third judge decided the case. Murthy was reinstated in the job in 1996.
 
 
 
 
 More time in court than at work
 
 This was just the beginning of his long, chequered story with the corporation. Within months, he was served a show-cause notice and terminated again in 1997. His appeal in the department was dismissed and he approached the HC again in 1998. In 2001, the HC reinstated him with full back wages and benefits. The corporation was also ordered to pay him Rs 5,000 as compensation.
 
 For four years, the corporation did nothing to him. But it issued him a show-cause notice again in 2005. He challenged the notice in the HC which quashed it and ordered the corporation to pay a compensation of Rs 10,000 this time. The corporation filed an appeal and won. The show-cause notice was restored.
 
 A departmental enquiry commenced against Murthy. His services were terminated yet again in March 2006. Murthy filed a departmental appeal which was rejected. He filed his fourth writ petition before the HC. He won the case but the HC this time directed the corporation to complete the enquiry within three months.
 
 Murthy, however, filed an appeal seeking reinstatement and payment of back wages. The HC ordered that the corporation should consider his demands. But in the meantime, the corporation was holding a departmental enquiry and once more terminated him from service in July 2012.
 
 As had become the norm, Murthy filed another petition before the HC. The HC ordered in November 2012 that he file a departmental appeal within 15 days and the appellate authority should decide the issue within three months. He filed the appeal but his termination order was upheld.
 
 Try, try, try, till...
 
 Murthy then filed his sixth petition before the HC in 2013. The judgement came this month. Murthy claimed before the court that “throughout his service career, he has been subjected to a running battle with the respondents” and has been victimised. He had been terminated on vague charges and the corporation went “hammer and tongs” to get rid of him.
 
 The corporation claimed that Murthy had failed to improve his performance despite repeated warnings and had committed grave misconducts. He had not cooperated during the departmental enquiry, which had found him guilty of misconduct. His previous misconducts was taken note of by the departmental enquires and he was found not suitable for the job. It was claimed that he was still on probation.
 
 The HC found it strange that Murthy was on probation even after 25 years. It said that every time Murthy was terminated on grounds of alleged misconducts but if it was his suitability for the post, a simple termination order should have sufficed. The HC said that charge sheet of the departmental enquiry was vague and violated the principles of natural justice. Instead of charges and details of misconduct, it only had conclusions. In one example, Murthy was alleged with “negligence and lack of interest in the performance of his duties,” without any specific details of his negligence or omissions.
 
 Terming Murthy’s termination as illegal, the HC reinstated him again. It ordered that he will be entitled to continuity of service and consequential benefits. But since he was not in service for the last five years, he would be entitled to only 50 per cent of his back wages. The corporation was asked to pay a fine of Rs 25,000 to him, the third time it has been imposed a fine in its issue with Murthy.
 
 
 But....
 
 The corporation “shall be free to hold a departmental enquiry against the petitioner, if necessary. But, the departmental enquiry shall be strictly in accordance with the procedure established by law.”
 
