MUMBAI: Merely because a man showed patience and waited before initiating criminal proceedings against his wife's lover for adultery does not mean that charges can be rejected, ruled the  . Justice   upheld the criminal proceedings for adultery initiated against a Pune-based medical practitioner and dismissed his plea for quashing it. 

 Dr   sought to make much capital of the fact that the complainant, Homi Dinshawji, had waited for over two years before filing the criminal case. Dr Mukherjee, who allegedly was involved in an extra-marital relationship with Dinshawji's wife, claimed that since the husband had kept quiet for such a long time meant that he did not have any grievance about the affair. The HC did not agree and held that the argument needs to be rejected outright. "Merely because Dinshawji showed some patience before proceeding for prosecuting Dr Mukherjee, it cannot be said that he is not an aggrieved person," said the judge.
 
 Under the Indian Penal Code, adultery is a crime and offence can be registered against a man who has an affair with a married woman. Section 497 says that a man who has sexual intercourse with the wife of another man, without the husband's consent, is guilty of adultery. If convicted, the man can be punished with a jail term of up to five years. The law is gender specific and is applicable only against the male lover. The provision says that the wife cannot be prosecuted or punished as an abettor to the crime of adultery.
 
 Dinshawji lodged a complaint in 2014 before the judicial first-class magistrate in 2014, accusing Mukherjee of committing adultery for having a sexual relationship with his wife. The magistrate initiated criminal proceedings against Mukherjee, which he first challenged before the sessions court and then the high court. 
 
 In his appeal, Mukherjee's lawyers contended that there were inconsistencies in Dinshawji's statements as some of the incidents mentioned in his complaint were not stated in his evidence before the magistrate. The HC ruled otherwise. "As long as the complaint and the statement in verification make out the ingredients of the offence, mere omission of all the details is inconsequential," said the judge. 
 
  (Names changed to protect identities) 
 
 
