On January 1, 2016 when a team of NSG commandos was busy flushing out terrorists from the   airbase, a   named `Rocket' sneaked into a burning billet. It burned its paws yet braved the blaze to fetch a pouch that indicated the presence of militants.Rocket was honoured that year for its “raw courage and dedication to duty".

 Known for its unflinching loyalty and scarce regard for danger, the Belgian Malinois has become an integral part of the canine squads of several elite forces. The celebrated breed now joins the Chennai police with two puppies being inducted into the dog squad whose strength has now touched 29.
 
 A Malinois can track explosives and humans -dead or alive -with ease.“We will start training the dogs as per the advice of veterinary doctors. We will train the puppies to detect explosives,“ said coach of the dog squad S Ananda Mohan, a sub-inspector. A Malinois can adopt to both cold and hot tropical condi tions, said vet erinarian Dr M Ram.
 
 “ These breeds have shorter fur and are less prone to heat stroke when compared to German Shepherds and Rottweiler.“
 
 Retired DGP Letika Saran said both   and Belgian Malinois are specialised in tracking people, dead or alive. “Both are equally competent,“ she said adding that a sniffer dog's finding was scientific and accepted by all courts.
 
 Unlike in films, where sniffer dogs hunt down suspects, Mohan said dogs give police leads. “It's very tough for the dog squad to track down suspects and catch them in a metropolitan city .The dogs follow a suspect's trail,“ said Mohan who joined the force in 1984 and voluntarily enrolled himself as a trainer. “Most offenders use bikes or cars to flee the crime scene. Once the smell of the suspect fades away , it is not possible for the dog to trace him.“
 
 Mohan recollected how in 2005, `Rex', a Labrador which retired a few years ago, helped police investigating a burglary case in   correct their course. “The police took the road leading towards   but the dog ran in the opposite direction and stopped at a dead end. This helped police to narrow down on the suspects,“ he said.
 
