LUCKNOW: Had his political science teacher not applied for  , he would have satisfied himself with a 98.5% aggregate. But an increase of three   in political science, which upped his score from 97 to 100, made 18-year-old Tathagat Bhatia, student of Seth MR Jaipuria, all-India second rank-holder in   (class XII) exams 2017 with an aggregate of 99.25%. An email from the education officer of the Council of Indian Certificate School Examinations (CISCE) Samir Kumar confirming his all-India rank 2 is in possesion of TOI. In ICSE (class X) in 2015, Tathagat had notched all India second rank by securing 99%. 

 Unlike students his age, who would jump with joy, Tathagat remained calm. His mother Sangita Bhatia, however, was on top of the world. “Being a single mother, it has been a tough journey for me. He has made me proud in every way and thanks to him I can face the world with pride,’’ said Sangita, a homoeopath. 
 
 When TOI called Tathagat to congratulate him, all he said was thanks. “ I am grateful to my political science teacher who had confidence in me to apply for revaluation on my behalf while I was busy applying for admission to colleges outside India for higher studies,” said Tathagat, who has scored a centum in mathematics and history too. 
 
 Tathagat, who returned from The Netherlands on Thursday, where he represented India in the International Philosophy Olympiad, is now packing his bags to fly to the US. He has been selected for the undergraduate course at the University of Pennsylvania where he will be studying liberal arts—philosophy, cognitive science and mathematics. “He will receive full financial aid amounting to Rs 1.5 crore, including accommodation and food from the US university. In addition, they will also pay for his summer trip to India, once a year for four years,’’ said Sangita. 
 
 At Tathagat’s school, the principal and his political science teacher were overwhelmed with his re-evaluated results. “ISC results announced on May 29 left us disappointed as Tathagat’s name was missing in the national merit list. We were sure if we applied for re-evaluation, his marks would go up. It’s a big achievement for the school as well,” said school principal Promini Chopra.
 
 His family said Tathagat is hardworking and has a great interest in sketching. He plays table tennis and loves to play the piano. In 2013, Tathagat led the team representing India in the National Geographic World Championship in which they finished third. In 2015, Tathagat was one among three class XI students from India who presented a project titled, ‘But Will The Planet Notice’ at the crucial climate summit, COP21 in Paris via video conferencing. 
 
 
