BENGALURU:   (SBM), which many people in Karnataka refer to as their `home bank' with a sense of ownership and nostalgia, will now be called the   (SBI), following its merger with the latter, which was finally implemented after lengthy opposition from employees was overcome.

 Curtains fell on the iconic institution as it was known, on Friday . But its staffers say that the customers will find nothing but the name different.
 
 In 1913, at the instance of M Visvesvaraya, then Dewan of erstwhile Mysore State, a stateaided bank called the   was established under the patronage of Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar.
 
  
  
 
 
 While the first branch, the main headquarters on KG Road-Avenue Road junction began operations on October 2, 1913, seeds for this banking system were sowed at the Mysore Economic Conference in June 1911, where a decision to open a bank in Bangalore city and a branch in the Cantonment area was taken, according to the silver jubilee souvenir of the bank.
 
 By June 1912, a resolution was adopted and on May 19, 1913, Bank of Mysore Limited was registered and the first branch unveiled for the public on October 2 with a skeletal staff of 17. The bank started with a deposit of Rs 4,38,288 by the end of 1913, a contribution made by Wadiyar, which he never reclaimed. The bank's first manager was Channel Islands-born WC Rose. An overwhelming response led Rose to undertake a bond in 1921 to construct a new building for the branch.It was completed in 1923 at a cost of Rs 2.14 lakh, and was occupied the following year.
 
 By that time, the bank had 19 operational branches, includ ing the ones in Mysuru, Kolar, Tumakuru, Shivamogga, Davanagere and Chikkaballapur.
 
 According to the bank's official records, in 1953, Bank of Mysore was appointed as an agent of the   to undertake government business and treasury operations, and in March 1960, it became a subsidiary of the State Bank of India under the State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959. And, until March 31, 2017, it was an associate bank under the State Bank Group.
 
 
 
 
 It's not just the bank, even the location of its headquarters -Mysore Bank Circle where six roads meet -is a landmark that has punctuated stories of several decades in Bengaluru.And it will remain the same for many years to come, notwithstanding the merger.
 
 The nomenclature of the bank may change, but the area around it will continue to be called Mysore Bank Circle, attracting curious outsiders to famous KG Road that still houses a host of theatres and shopping avenues, and rebel Bengalureans who want to stage their protests.
 
 An important junction on KG Road leading to Majestic area and the city bus stand, Mysore Bank Circle, which several filmmakers have used in their movies as establishment shots, much like Central Station in Chennai is, to show a hero has landed in the city .
 
 Over the years, given its important location, the circle became a go-to place for the city's protesters. It was the mainstay for such people along with the Mahatma Gandhi statue on MG Road, where agitations are now prohibited. Though Freedom Park, with more space and infrastructure is a favourite among agitators, the number of protests at Mysore Bank Circle have not dwindled.
 
 
