BELAGAVI: A newborn, abandoned three years ago by her parents and brought up in a government orphanage, was reunited with her parents, thanks to the   (CWC) of the women and child welfare department. 

 Vidyashri and Balesh of Kurani village, Hukkeri taluk on Tuesday took their daughter Revathi home after CWC chairman   handed her over to them. 
 
 Revathi was abandoned in an isolated area on the outskirts of Kurani village as she was born out of wedlock.  , a resident of the village, found her and gave her to the local government hospital. 
 
 The Child Protection Committee took her into its custody and found a home for her in the Vivekanand Seva Pratisthan's Gangamma Chikkumbimath Balakalyan Kendra, Belagavi which is run by the government. The committee also filed a complaint in the Yamakanmardi police station and published information about her in local newspapers. But, they did not get any response.
 
 Vidyashri and Balesh were neighbours in Kurani and fell in love. Balesh is a farmer and Vidyashri comes from a farming family. Four months after abandoning the newborn, her parents got married and started looking for her. In the meantime, Vidyashri gave birth to a baby boy. 
 
 Balesh said he and Vidyashri decided to abandon their baby because they feared criticism. Soon after we got married, the guilt of abandoning our baby started haunting us and we started to search for her. We knew Shivanand Gudasi had given her to the hospital," Balesh said.
 
 According to Nandakishor, family members repeatedly contacted the Hukkeri taluk hospital and district hospital several times but the hospital authorities asked them to approach the women and child welfare department but they did not. 
 
 Finally, after three years, Vidyashri and Balesh approached the CWC. Based on their application, committee members went to the residence of Balesh for a thorough check and submitted their report to chairman   that Revathi was indeed the daughter of Vidyashri and Balesh. 
 
 "Reuniting the child with her parents brought us immense work pleasure. We took the decision after a thorough inspection," he said.
 
 
