THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Death of   native Murugan, who had to spend over seven hours in an ambulance following denial of treatment, has brought to limelight the need to strengthen trauma care facilities and emergency management systems in hospitals.The state branch of   (IMA) has now come out with a mission to network the hospitals in the state for an effective trauma care mechanism. A pilot project as part of the initiative would be launched in Thiruvananthapuram. “The idea is to implement it in Thiruvananthapuram and then extend it to other districts,'' said Dr John Panicker, president,   Thiruvananthapuram. Formulating a trauma care network has become the most essential part in emergency care management. Journey from the spot of trauma to the hospital is the most crucial hour for the patient and hence the focus should be on saving the patient at the most golden hour, said Dr B Ekbal, state planning board member.

 In 2016, the state witnessed around 40,000 road accidents which resulted in loss of lives of 4,000 people and caused serious disabilities to another 4,600 victims. According to Ekbal, 50% of the deaths occur in the first 15 minutes of the accident and another 30% deaths in the first two hours. Hence, the focus should be on reducing this mortality rate, he said.
 
 While admitting that the weakest link in the healthcare of Kerala is the casualty wing of the hospitals, he said there is a need for an emergency management team in all hospitals. “Medical professionals have a responsibility to bring down the accidents. Public campaign, a protocol-based clinical training, a public-private handling of the management in trauma care and a state policy for trauma care management are the major things we should look into,'' said Ekbal.
 
 A network of ambulances in private and government hospitals, training of stakeholders, including the public, police officers and doctors on emergency management and special teams in the casualty department of the hospitals can save many lives. The government should pool resources from the private sector for an effective trauma care management since none of the entities can do this all alone, said Dr A Marthanda Pilla, past national president of IMA. Dr  , a trauma care specialist of St Mary's Hospital, UK, said that improving pre-hospital transport is the key to save lives.“There should be a pre-defined trauma care protocol. In UK an ambulance takes a maximum of seven minutes to reach the spot with the kind of network the ambulance and police have. Hence there is a need for networking the police with the ambulance and hospitals for this,'' he said. But the police have a different con cern. “People are reluctant in taking the victims to the hospitals which is the main cause of worry . We have to educate the people and also set up task forces involving the youths to improve the emergency management service on roads, said G Jayadev, deputy commissioner of police.He said the police is the first point where the accident is reported and hence they need to have access to a network of hospitals and ambulances. The support of   in this is crucial, he said.
 
