KOCHI: The Kochi corporation has issued a stop memo to   at   on Thursday. The local body said it made the decision after received an application from the shopping   seeking approval to continue with operations.

 “The fire and rescue department had submitted a report stating the rectifications to be carried out in the building. Officials from the local body inspected the mall to check whether the mall has implemented the suggestions pointed out by the fire and rescue department,“ said health standing committee chairperson VK Minimol. She said on inspection it was found that the mall failed in implementing the instructions and hence they were served a stop memo.
 
 The fire and rescue department said in the report it had listed out 10 points and charges that have to be incorporated. The department insisted on having glass doors and windows, which could be opened.“When the building caught fire the glass panes were broken to release the fumes. This is yet to be fixed,“ said R Prasad, division fire officer. The department had also instructed to seal certain ducts as well as facilities to clear the residue of oil and waste from the kitchen. Meanwhile, local people said the mall continued to function despite the corporation issuing directions to stop operations since it caught fire. Once the high court issued directions to the corporation to take action the shops inside it started to close down.Security personnel guarding the building restricted the entry of public. “The mall was closed on Thursday by around 1pm. After that I didn't see anyone expect the guards inside it,“ said  , an auto driver.
 
 The corporation's swift action on Thursday followed an attempt by the management of Oberon Mall to get the action stayed by approaching the high court. When the petition filed by   and Estates against the corporation's move came up for hearing, the court asked for the present status. Corporation informed that the mall has been continuing to function despite its instructions.
 
 The court has not issued a stay on the corporation's or stay on the corporation's or der banning functioning of the mall until the rectifica tions were carried out, the corporation contended. Following this, the court ordered that the corporation should conduct an inspection on the basis of the report from the fire department and pass orders by May 27th. It was on May 16th that a fire broke out at the fourth floor of the mall, where the kitchen of the plaza's food court was situated.
 
