ROHTAK: A man from   against his former daughter-in-law, her father and another person at   for allegedly extorting Rs 10 lakh from his son based on a fabricated   in December 2014. 

 The complainant alleged that his son, who is a software engineer in Gurugram, had married his now separated wife in February 2014. Due to disputes, both separated after some months, but she lodged FIR against his son for raping her in Gurugram based on a fake story.
 
 After the case trial started in a Gurugram court, one Mahabir Soni, known to the family of accused’s wife, approached them and offered to make an out of court settlement in lieu of Rs 10 lakh. The complainant, who lives in a Rohtak colony, said they paid the amount in three instalments to Mahabir and some other persons to avoid harassment in the alleged rape case.
 
 He stated that his son’s former wife, however, stood by her allegations of rape in the court. He said the court found the story to be fabricated as his son was in his office on the date and time at which his ex-wife alleged to have been raped.
 
 The complainant said her family also approached them when the case was on trail for demanding another Rs 5 lakh for out of court settlement but they refused to strike any deal. He said his son was let off by the Gurugram court in November 2015 following which they demanded their money back but the former wife’s side refused to return it. The complainant said they filed an application in the chief minister’s window in March 2016, but the local police shut the case without investigation by saying the matter was subjudice.
 
 Meanwhile, the girl’s side approached the Punjab and Haryana high court against the complainant’s son seeking action but their plea was dismissed. Following the HC order, the complainant again appeared before Rohtak superintendent of police (SP) on Thursday with all the documents and sought an FIR against the former wife of his son, her father and Mahabir, who worked as facilitator in handing of money between both parties.
 
 The complainant said they have also filed a civil defamation of Rs 10 crore against his son’s former wife and her father, and a criminal case for levelling a false rape case against his son. Police said they had registered a case under sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the IPC against all the three persons named in the application.
 
 
