 doesn’t want to lose any time as he gets set to take charge of India’s under-17 football team after the acrimonious departure of Nicolai Adam who was accused of physically abusing the players.
 
  The Portuguese was appointed chief coach of the India squad for the Fifa U-17 World Cup later this year on Wednesday and has told the All India Football Federation ( ) that he will take charge immediately, rather than go back home to Portugal and return later.
  
  De Matos is currently in Mumbai where he met AIFF president   and will be in India at least for the next six weeks.
  
  “He will arrive in Goa (where the team is based) on March 4 and take charge. He is just waiting for his assistant coach to arrive,” AIFF general secretary Kushal Das told TOI on Wednesday.
  
  The AIFF has given de Matos the freedom to choose his own support staff and it is understood that the Portuguese will take a call once he gets a decent idea of how the existing staff works. The AIFF currently has a team manager, goalkeeping coach and physiotherapist, while German physical trainer Sven Fenveber and compatriot Timu K, medical coach, have been told that their services are no longer needed.
  
  Former assistant coach Etibar Ibrahimov left along with Nicolai and has since joined the Azerbaijan Under-19 team.
  
  Meanwhile, de Matos will be based in Goa and possibly feel an instant connect with the former Portuguese colony. “I do have an Indian connection as my great grandfather was born in Goa,” said de Matos.
  
  “My role will be to orchestrate everything wherein the players will be playing their part. I admire AIFF’s vision and the under-17 World Cup will act as a base for development of football in India. The players need to believe in themselves to do something special for the country,” said the Portuguese coach.
  
  De Matos, 63, who has been highly recommended by the Portuguese Football Federation (FPF) and spoken about in glowing terms by national coach  .
  
  A former Portuguese striker, de Matos started his coaching career with second division outfit Club Atletico in 1989 and it wasn’t until 2005 that he got a chance to coach a team in the top-flight of Portuguese football when he was signed up by Vitoria de Setubal. He later worked as football director at   and took charge of the Guinea-Bissau national team.
