NAGPUR: A profusely bleeding woman drove her Scooty to a nearby hospital after her 24-year-old boyfriend slit her throat with a blade at a desolate place in  ,  , on Tuesday at 9.30 pm. Victim Vidya Sawarkar, a 30-year-old widow, reached the hospital and collapsed on the ground, while continuously taking the culprit’s name, Mohd Farooq Sheikh. 

 Hospital staff informed Wadi police, who rushed to the hospital, and immediately informed the victim’s family members.
 
 Sawarkar is a resident of  . Her 10-year-old son Sanskar and other local residents told the cops that they had last seen her going with Farooq and his elder brother Wasim. Wadi police promptly rounded up Farooq, who confessed to the crime during interrogation. Later, Farooq took cops to the crime spot from where the bloodied blade was also recovered.
 
 In the visit to the crime scene, the Wadi police realized that the crime spot falls in the jurisdiction of Gittikhadan police station. Hence, the case was transferred to Gittikhadan police after registering an offence of murder against Farooq, a truck driver. The cops arrested him and produced him before the court on Wednesday, which remanded him to police custody till Sunday. By Wednesday evening, cops had rounded up Wasim too.
 
 Employed at Big Bazaar, Sawarkar used to live with her son Sanskar, a student of standard V, after her husband Harish died in an accident eight years back, said cops. Sawarkar and Farooq used to reside in the same locality. Cops said the duo had developed physical relations over the last few months.
 
 Complainant Gaurav Thakre, Sawarkar’s brother, told TOI, “Sanskar told me that Farooq had borrowed substantial money from Sawarkar for Wasim’s marriage. He started avoiding her when she asked him to return the money.” On Tuesday, Farooq and Wasim took Sawarkar from her home on the pretext of returning her money. They went to a desolate place and slit her throat, said the relatives.
 
 “Farooq told cops Sawarkar had conceived as a result of their relationship, and was demanding Rs7,000 for an abortion. However, this statement was found to be untrue,” said senior PI RD Nikam. He told TOI Farooq has several offences against him at Bhandara. 
 
 Reliable sources from the police station also said Sawarkar had earlier been in a relationship with Wasim. After his marriage, she got involved in a physical relationship with Farooq.
 
