BHUBANESWAR: To reduce the burden on teachers, the   has decided to reduce the number of mid-day meal (MDM) centres in schools and provide the   to   through  . The state has sought application from charitable organisations, self-help groups and social entrepreneurs to set up such kitchens for mid-day meal management. There will be at least 10 schools under each central kitchen.

 Reducing the burden on teachers is the primary objective of setting up the central kitchens. Besides, it will help in improving the monitoring and ensuring better quality of food being served to schoolchildren. In many urban areas there is a space constraint to set up school kitchens in individual schools and centralised kitchens would be of help in such cases, said state nodal officer for mid-day meal Gangadhar Sahoo. 
 
 At present, seven central kitchens are providing mid-day meal to around four lakh children in 3,636 schools in the state. The Central Kitchen Policy formulated by the state government stated, "As the quality and quantity of meals supplied to a large number of children receiving MDM from centralized kitchens depends upon the commitment and ability of the agencies, it is important that such centralized kitchen agencies are selected carefully and their performance evaluated regularly".
 
 A committee of experts headed by the school and mass education secretary would examine and select the agencies to set up the centralised kitchens. Every year there will be performance audit and quality supervision biannually of central kitchen agency by any third party or internal mechanism of the department. The centralised kitchen agency must abide by the menu prescribed by the government.
 
 Interested organisations, federations, or entrepreneurs can send their proposals as per their suitability, financial strength, managerial ability and experience by May 31, 2017 at the nodal office. "The applicants should have local presence and familiarity with the needs and culture of the state," said Sahoo.
 
 Teachers organisations welcomed the state governments move for centralised kitchen. "This is a big relief to teachers overburdened by the pressure of managing the mid-day meal. It was also affecting their performance in class," said  , convenor of State Teachers Federation of Odisha.
 
