 Pilibhit: Noted farmers’ leader V M Singh has said that farm loan waiver was not a solution to the problems faced by cultivators. He has submitted a proposed action plan to the Prime Minister to deal with problems facing the agricultural sector in the country.   V M Singh submitted the proposal, which discusses the problems in the agricultural loan policy, agricultural pricing structure, murky conditions of produce procurement and delayed payment of dues. It also suggests reforms to address these issues.    Singh, national convener of Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Party, told TOI, “Farmers normally seek agricultural loans when their entire produce is not procured by the government agencies under target-based system or they are not provided with timely payments of their crops as is evident in case of sugarcane. Such conditions create scarcity of liquidity for making agricultural investments as well as meeting their household expenditures.”    Quoting the specific example of Pilibhit district, Singh said that the total wheat cultivation area during the current Rabi season was 1.55 lakh hectares. “This area is likely to produce at least 7.75 lakh metric tonnes of wheat in the district, while the state government has fixed the total current procurement target at 3.70 lakh metric tonnes,” he said.    “The produce of numbers of farmers is rejected by procurement agencies due to excess moisture and foreign materials. These conditions deprive almost half of the total farmers of an opportunity to sell their crop on government announced support price and they consequently are left to the mercy of private traders,” Singh said.    The farmer leader said that he had therefore proposed to the PM to withdraw the target-based procurement system and to make state governments to purchase entire agriculture produce of farmers to save them from harassment.    Singh said that in 2015, UP had witnessed 1,153 deaths of farmers due to suicides and “shock” as untimely rain and hailstorm had massively decimated Rabi crops. But the farmers were not given reparation against crop damages as in most of the cases the Kisan Credit Card issuing banks had been found defaulters in depositing the crop insurance premium with insurance companies.     “Once the KCC loan is linked directly to the loss of crops, the farmers will be able to get compensation without fail and thus to sustain themselves even if their crops are destroyed due to reasons beyond their control,” Singh said.    Regarding 50 million farmer families which survive on sugarcane crop, Singh proposed to the PM to re-impose penal interest payment system on sugar mills under which the mills were liable to pay 15% interest to farmers if payment of sugarcane was made beyond 14 days of the supply of cane to mills. “Although an order to this effect had been passed by the Allahabad high court the state government revoked it by a cabinet decision,” Singh said.