Nagpur: “Men make houses but women make homes. They have utmost care for their family and society and devote their life for their betterment,” said social activist Vaishali Chopra. She was delivering a lecture at Markaz E Islami Hall, Jaffar Nagar, on Wednesday. 

 The event was organized by ‘Halqa E Khwateen’, women’s wing of Jamaat e Islami Hind, to celebrate International Women’s Day. 
 
 This year’s theme for the programme was ‘Nudity — an insult to women’. Chopra said, “Indian society is culturally rich. Their way of living imbibes moral values and traditions. It is believed that the Britishers who tried to tear us apart attempted to attack our strongest asset, that is our culture. They thought this is the only way to divide and rule us.” 
 
 According to Chopra, “Nowadays, we are adopting a lifestyle where we try to copy and imitate the style of others. The extent of modernity is measured by amount of skin revealed. We want to follow the latest trends and stay updated with fashion. But in reality, we don’t need it. In this process, we are destroying our virtues.”
 
 Highlighting the importance of women in India, vice-president of Jijau Brigade Premlata Jadhav said, “The entire nation came together to seek justice for Nirbhaya. This signified how much women are valued here.” 
 
 Adviser of Consumer Forum Gauri Chandrayan, a lawyer, urged women to make a resolution. She asked them to minutely observe the problems faced by women and take initiative to solve them. Chandrayan said, “Knowing the issues and fighting them back will be the best way to celebrate women’s day.” Around 93 cases of cyber crimes were reported in the city recently and was emerging as a grave problem, she added.
 
 Director of Step Play School Shazia Khan revealed the worth of women in Islam. “An-Nisa is a whole chapter in Holy Koran dedicated to females. It deals with development of strong Muslim community by granting women their God-given rights to fulfil their true role in society,” said Khan. “Being beautiful is a characteristic associated with girls. We enhance our appearance and try to look impressive. We are subconsciously inclining towards vulgarity in doing so. Instead, we must stick to modesty,” she added.
 
 “We need to protect our children’s minds from being influenced by westernization. While raising our kids, remember the mantra ‘PEST’ which stands for control over political, economical, social and technological influence, Khan said. 
 
 The event was conducted under the guidance of Mariam Jameela, city unit president of the committee.
 
 
