KOCHI: Kerala police personnel 'escorted' a group of  , who turned   and roughed up couples at the picturesque   here around 4.30pm on Wednesday. 

 The escorting men in khaki did nothing to prevent the gang of about 10 men from beating up the couples-other than requesting them not to do so. The request, however, was ignored; but the incident did not go unnoticed.
 
 Later in the day, Ernakulam central police station house officer S Vijayasankar was suspended from service pending an inquiry. Eight other officers, who was with the SHO at Marine Drive, were transferred to the armed reserve police camp. 
 
 The   men, armed with canes and party flags, raided the  , ordering people to "behave". They shouted at couples occupying the benches, and issued threats while caning and chasing them away. All the while, the state police accompanying the mob, watched without acting.
 
 "Police were walking along and was requesting the protesters not to hit the youths. They didn't use force or prevent the party workers from abusing them," said Jojo Baby, a social worker, who witnessed the scene.
 
 Youths, who frequent the spot on evenings, said that police see them with disdain.
 
 "I was sitting with my girlfriend here on Tuesday, when a couple of policemen approached us. One of them started the conversation, asking whether I have done 'groping' her. There is no wonder that the police facilitated the atrocity today. Luckily I was alone today," said a youth, who wished to remain anonymous.
 
 Later, as criticism against the police gained strength, eight Shiv Sena men, C R Devan, K V Kunjumon, K U Rathessh, A V Vineesh, C R Lenin, K K Biju, Aravind and Siju were arrested for rioting and using criminal force to deter public servants from discharging their duty, an officer attached to the Central police station said.
 
 The Shiv Sena, meanwhile, said it was protesting against the 'anti-social activities'. "We are not against youths spending time here. A majority of them, however, sits here hiding under open umbrellas to indulge in immoral activities," said a Shiv Sena worker, who refused to identify himself.
 
 Saji Markose, a regular visitor said, the activity of the youths have been dubbed as 'Kudamattom' here. "Young kids often visit the spot after bunking schools almost every day. However, this doesn't give the any political party the right to take law and order into their hands," he said. 
 
 Later in the evening, a hashtag, #occupymarinedrive, was trending on social media.
 
 
 
 
 
