With the release of Yajamana Enterprises-produced 
 today, directed by National award-winning director   and starring   as the 12th century poet-philosopher   and   as Maya the Kannada audiences are guaranteed for a grand trip into the rich pages of the state's history. Speaking about his role, Dhananjaya says, 'Getting to play Allama Prabhu is a dream for me. I grew up on historic films and epics, listening to them on tape-recorders and transistors more than watching them in theatres and on TV. I was only aware of Allama's 
 but not about his life, so, personally, this film has been an enlightening experience for me.'
 
  
 So what makes this a must-see movie for audiences? Dhananjaya lists them down'
 
 
 
 When you get to know about Allama Prabhu's philosophy on life, it's fair to put him on the same pedestal as Socrates, only he is nowhere as well known as the Greek philosopher. A lot people from the villages know of him, his 
 and his legacy, but the urban people ' not so much. Knowing about the life and times of the poet will leave you hypnotized and you'll leave the theatre with a sense of pride that someone like him lived among us in the past.
 
 
 
 The director-producer combination of TS Nagabharana and late   has earlier produced epics such as 
  and 
 , which are well-researched, performance-oriented films. This film will be no different in terms of preparation and portrayal, and will surely make Allama Prabhu a household name.
 
 
 
 Although his philosophy is way back from the 12th century, it is relevant even today. Many people ask the same question ' if the youth today will be able to relate to the film. Most of director Nagabharana's assistants and support crew are who barely knew anything about the film. But by the end of it, everyone became a fan of Allama. That's how influential he can be.
 
 
 
 There is no authentic, documented image or form of the poet, so that makes the character's portrayal very difficult. But listening to the director and scriptwriter's in-depth and well-researched discussions has helped get a feel of the characters. We have strived to make the film as authentic as possible ' be it the costumes, doing yoga to get my body shape right or learning mridanga for over a year. The same applies for Meghana,   (as  ) and   (as Allama's mother), who've put in tremendous efforts to nail their characters.
 
 
 
 The film will have subtitles for all shows in all theatres. This has been done so that even the non-Kannada speaking audiences can get to know about the life of the great poet, and by that extension, an important part of  's history.
 
