Puducherry: The legislative assembly secretariat of the Union territory of   on Monday declined to accept the nomination of three BJP loyalists as members, saying it ‘has not received any communication from competent authority’. It returned all the files to lt governor  , saying it “ was not bound” by her communication, resulting in yet another standoff between the Congress government and the lt governor.

 “I am directed to inform that the Puducherry legislative assembly secretariat has not received any communication from competent authority about the nomination of the three members. Hence assembly secretariat is not bound by your letter of communication and therefore the documents enclosed in that letter are returned herewith,” assembly secretary A Vincent Rayar said in a letter to lt governor’s secretary G Theva Neethi Dhas. 
 
 On July 4, the Centre nominated Puducherry BJP unit president A Saminathan and treasurer K G Shankar and BJP sympathiser S Selvaganapathy as members of the assembly. The same day, the three called on Bedi, chief secretary Manoj Parida and speaker V Vaithilingam. They requested the speaker to hold the swearing-in ceremony. 
 
 Later in the evening, they gave a representation to Bedi saying the Congress government was not keen on holding the ceremony.
 
 Bedi administered to them oath of office and secrecy at Raj Nivas without informing the elected government nor inviting chief minister V Narayanasamy, his cabinet colleagues and elected members of the ruling Congress, its allies and opposition parties and also the media, leading to widespread criticism. Bedi later sent a communication to the assembly secretariat asking officials to extend necessary facilities and privileges to the nominated MLAs to enable them to discharge their duties.
 
 On Monday, the assembly secretariat returned her communication. Bedi, who came down heavily on the Congress government, said the Centre had exercised its statutory power (as laid down under section 3 (3) of the UT Act) and nominated the three to the assembly and communicated its nomination to the Puducherry government.
 
 “The order was duly notified by the chief secretary and it was also published in the extraordinary gazette of Puducherry and the assembly speaker informed,” she said. Bedi defended her decision to administer oath of office to the MLAs after the speaker was evasive in fixing the date of their swearing-in. 
 
 Bedi confirmed that the speaker’s office had returned all the papers. “This has been informed to the Union government for appropriate action,” she said. The fresh round of confrontation resulted in Bedi and Vaithilingam heading to New Delhi to seek clarification from the Union home ministry as well as legal and constitutional authorities. 
 
 Constitutional experts say the present situation can kick up a storm, but would eventually settle in favour of the Union home ministry that had overriding powers over the Union territory. 
 
 “The question now is whether the lt governor has the authority to recommend nominated MLAs in the absence of specific rules and regulations. The issue is settled after the Union government endorsed lt governor’s recommendations and nominated them,” said former professor of Mussoorie-based LBS National Academy of Administration N K Kumaresan Raja.
 
 
