NEW DELHI: A day after a 23-year-old man died after allegedly hitting himself with a beer bottle during a New Year party at a club in  's  , the case took a curious turn. 

 Family members on Monday alleged that Deepak Tandon was murdered in full public view and that the incident took place in the presence of three of his friends. Police questioned the three youths, Vikram, Anmol and Yash, who denied that the victim had hit himself. 
 
 Vikram claimed that he arrived at the pub with the three others at 8.30pm. After a few drinks, Anmol and Yash stepped out to buy cigarettes. “The bouncers started hitting him (Tandon). I intervened, but they hit me too,” he alleged. As the commotion grew, Anmol and Yash rushed in and saw Tandon being dragged by the bouncers, they claimed.
 
 Tandon, an advertising professional and a part-time bouncer at Ludhiana, had come to Delhi for the first time and was staying with his relatives. Family members alleged that Tandon was hit with rods by bouncers and policemen following a brawl.  , the victim’s father, said the management declined their request to allow them to access CCTV footage of the incident.
 
 On Monday, the police interrogated 15 employees of the pub, including the owner, manager and waiters. The employees maintained that Tandon had smashed a beer bottle on his own head when he was stopped from dancing alone on the floor. They claimed that he was heavily drunk and was creating a ruckus. They also denied having hit him.
 
 TOI made several attempts to contact the pub management, but got no response. The pub was found shut on Monday. “There is no CCTV footage of the incident but someone in the crowd, which had gathered after the man hit himself, made a video,” said Chinmoy Biswal, additional commissioner of police (south).
 
 In the video, Tandon is seen on the road, barechested and bleeding profusely. He is surrounded by a group of onlookers and policemen, who try to get him inside the PCR van to take him to a hospital. Tandon repeatedly resists them and even shoves one of the onlookers.
 
 Police said no FIR had been registered yet as the autopsy report was awaited. 
 
 
