HYDERABAD: After a brief lull, work on the upcoming   has picked up pace. The AP   (CRDA) has decided to rope in Robert Knox, the famous keeper of the department of  , for the expert advice.

 Robert also served as the director of the British Museum. He will be one of the experts, who will give inputs on designs and architecture of Amaravati. A high-level team from the APCRDA will soon visit the UK to discuss the designs of Amaravati with him.
 
 The British Museum has a series of 120 scriptures and inscriptions from Amaravati. They have been in the museum's possession since 1880.   are also called Ellot Marbles. Knox was the head of the upkeep section of the Ellot Marbles. “He will not visit AP. We will keep in touch with him through live video conferences and other means of communication,“ Parakala Prabhakar, advisor (communications) to AP government, told TOI.
 
 Apart from Robert, a 10member team will actively work on various aspects of the designs. Noted art director Anand Sai, who is also working for Yadadri temple in Telangana, will be part of the team. The experts committee will see that the designs and architecture of the capital city reflect the pre-Satavahana, Satavahana, and post-Satavahana along with pre-Buddhist, Buddhist and post-Buddhist times. The committee will meet for two days for the first time next week. The idea is to see that the nine theme cities and 27 townships that have been proposed as part of the capital city reflect the architecture of various kingdoms like Vijayanagara, Satavahana, Vishunukundina, and Kalinga.
 
 In the first meeting, each member of the committee will be assigned specific tasks. Each of the structures like gateways, entry points, roads, important buildings and names too will reflect ancient heritage Meanwhile, Norman Fosters, the architect for the permanent government complex, will come up with three theme designs initially. They will be presented to the AP government either on March 1 or 8. “They will further work on the theme selected by us,“ officials said.
 
 The state government is keen to complete the permanent government complex by 2019.
 
