CHENNAI: MBBS/MD in China, Russia, Philippines, Bangladesh, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia. Admission open. Class starts from July. 9566333317. Hurry up & get '10,000 worth gifts.

 Sounds familiar? You may have been flooded with such messages or seen them being circulated on social media as education agents get busy at this time of the year, trying to attract students to enroll for medical courses abroad. With the   (NEET) having been made compulsory, several foreign university agents are using this as an opportunity to lure   abroad, away from the highly competitive NEET.
 
 But   warn students to not fall prey to such messages or advertisements and research thoroughly before applying. They observe that NEET, by placing restrictions on the number of students accepted by every state, may play a role in the increase in demand for these colleges abroad.
 
 At this time, it is essential to check the authenticity of the colleges online and those recognised by the Medical Council of India (MCI) because education consultants point out that a degree from a private university without MCI recognition will not be valid in India. "Many are trying to encash the opportunity of avoiding NEET and it has become a marketing strategy to sell the idea of foreign education. But students must not become a victim of attractive promises. What they must remember is that wherever you study MBBS, you have to be serious about it," said Paul Chellakumar of Campus Abroad, which helps students get admission in foreign universities.
 
 Over the past few years, China, Philippines and Russia have become the top destinations for Indian students to pursue medicine. Easy entry, quality infrastructure, and low cost have been the major reasons for students opting for these countries. This year, the Russian Culture Centre said universities in their country have recorded an increase of 40% in the number of seats allocated to medical aspirants as compared to last year. "Many are going to Philippines, especially students from South India. There is higher attraction as it is an English speaking country but at an all India level, China tops," said Chellakumar.
 
 A ticket abroad, however, may not necessarily guarantee a high-flying medical career, as students apart from dealing with the different language, climate and culture abroad also have to come back to the Foreign Medical Graduates Examination. The pass percentage is not more than 20% today and many have to attend coaching to prepare for the exam.
 
 In the long run, this route to avoid NEET may be closed if the proposal to make the test mandatory for medical aspirants going abroad comes into effect, observed Syed Abdul Khader, who studied MBBS abroad and runs a medical academy. "We are hoping that the proposal of the medical exit exam takes off so that the test is fair for all students, whether they study here or overseas," he said.
 
