LUCKNOW: Among the most striking irregularities found in the high profile   was that senior officers did not go through what was being recorded in the  . The anomaly compelled the   to order fresh probe into the case which lingered for two years.

 Under UP police regulation and Police Act, a circle officer has to review criminal incidents reported in his circle, FIRs registered and progress made by his subordinates handling investigations. In this case, the DySP concerned did not make remarks for a year even when three different IOs recorded different observations.
 
 The   was detected on May 25, 2015 with arrest of 12 persons from Gautampalli area by special task force. Native of Basti, Rajesh Ranjan was identified as mastermind of the gang trying to leak the paper through WhatsApp with the help of Udayganj, Lucknow resident Prafulla Vaishya and 10 others.
 
 Probes began and on the basis of evidence collected, Rameshwaram institute owner Surendra Shukla’s name was added as 13th accused apart from Rameshwaram principal R K Singh, director of Techno institute Nimesh Singh and Techno professor Arun Kumar Shukla as the 16th.
 
 The call detail records showed Prafulla was in touch with Surendra Shukla on phone. The leak originated from Rameshwaram college and this was confirmed by Gorakhpur University, exam controller for that year, as recorded by the first investigating officer of the case Awadesh Tripathi. During the probes it was found that Shukla’s daughter was appearing for   exam at Techno institute and that Rajesh Ranjan was in touch with scores of aspirants appearing in different parts of Uttar Pradesh. He provided sophisticated ear plugs to them to give them the answer key. All these findings were mentioned in the case-diary.
 
 In October 2015, on directions of the highest authority, IT Act was added to the FIR and case was handed over to inspector Shyam Sundar Mishra. The inspector took a different line and started offering clean chits to some of the accused. The inspector also dubbed intentions of STF and Tripathi “dubious”.
 
 Though third IO was appointed in February 2015, a crucial juncture in the case, DySP Ashok Verma posted as Hazratganj circle officer and additional superintendent Rajiv Malhotra, showed no interest to find what went wrong all of a sudden. Malhotra had a short tenure, while Verma remained circle officer of Hazratganj between November 2014 and January 2017 before he was transferred out of Lucknow by the election commission. 
 
 “Usually, circle officers give their views, remarks, comments on findings mentioned in the case-diary. They can also give instructions to IOs if they come across inconsistency. But in this case, such steps were not taken,” said senior superintendent of police Deepak Kumar.
 
 
