AURANGABAD: Corporators across party lines on Saturday asserted the need for a re-look into the list of 1,100 illegal shrines saying that the civic body had prepared the list in a haphazard manner. They claimed that ancient temples, mosques and other religious structures were part of the list. 

 They also suggested the civic chief to explore the possibility of approaching the   as the religious structures under question was revered by people.
 
 Mayor   had convened a special general body meeting on Saturday to discuss the high court order directing the police and civic body authorities to implement its 2008 order to raze illegal religious structures which have become an impediment to road widening work.
 
 Municipal commissioner D M Mugalikar told the general body that that there was no scope for challenging the high court order, but the members of the general body insisted that he take the opinion of senior legal luminaries. They also wanted the civic body to prepare a fresh list and submit to the court. Mugalikar also made it clear to them that demolition drive would take place in a phase-wise manner during the working days. “In the first phase, the structures that are hampering the road widening would be taken up,” he said.
 
 The mayor said that the civic body should have brought to the notice of the high court about the existence of old religious structures that have been around for centuries. The civic officials also readout the high court order to the corporators, saying that first order to this effect was issued about nine and half years ago. Mugalikar reasserted that the AMC had to follow the high court order.
 
 The corporators also took the town planning and legal department officials to task and demanded action against the officials for not working properly. However, municipal commissioner clarified that it was now too late for such an action and pointed out that the work to demolish such structures was already in progress. The corporation also provided a list of religious structures to the members of the general body. The list consits of structures that were coming in the way of road widening process, structures that could be regularised and how many of them are situated on private, government or civic properties. 
 
 
