MARGAO: Portugal Prime Minister Antonio Costa’s quiet lunch with family turned out to be quite an event for the entire neighbourhood on  . 

 News spread that he would be visiting the home where his father Orlando da Costa grew up and neighbours were only too happy to call in sick from work, some even shutting their businesses for the morning to   walking their streets.
 
 The neighbourhood broke into loud applause on two occasionswhile welcoming Costa into their neighbourhood and bidding him farewell. 
 
 Twenty Class VIII students of the Portuguese language from  , accompanied by their teachers on guitar and flute, broke into song, singing ‘Portugal Meu Portugal’. Costa listened to them with a big smile before thanking them personally.
 
 Kimberly D’Costa, one of the students, said singing for Costa was the perfect gift for her birthday. “It was very nice, the way he came forward and stood directly in front of us to appreciate the song,” she said.
 
 Costa waved out to neighbours who were watching the excitement from their balconies. Artemio da Silva ran into his house adjoining the Costa home and emerged with a Portuguese flag that he waved for the PM. “We played together as children when he visited Goa in the late 70s. It brings us great joy to see that he’s leading a European country today,” said Artemio, who took the day off from work for the occasion.
 
 Sita Lone travelled all the way from Chinchinim, a good 10 km, and waited for over an hour just to meet him. “We’re so proud of him. I came to Margao specially to see him. Who knows when this opportunity will arise again?” she told TOI.
 
 Doctors told 87-year-old Antonio Silva Pereira from Chinchinim that he had a few hours to live, but that was almost a year ago. On Thursday he disobeyed his doctor’s orders not to leave home and waited patiently along with his grandniece Saadia outside the Costa house only to be rewarded with a hug from the PM. 
 
 “I met him several times when I was working in Lisbon. I was happy to see him again and he was happy to see me too,” Pereira told TOI. 
 
 Gaurav Madkaikar from Pajifond didn’t mind pulling down the shutters of his shop for a couple of hours if it meant getting a picture of the PM. “It’s a proud moment to meet someone who has roots in Margao, rising to the top,” he said.
 
 Vivenda Alvares Brito, two houses away from the Costa home, is usually unoccupied but its owners Rosette Sousa, her husband Dr Luis Sousa and their son travelled from Panaji to witness the PM’s homecoming of sorts. “Our ancestors grew up on the same street. Antonio Costa has made a name for himself as PM of Portugal. It’s fantastic,” she said.
 
 Senior citizens who had gathered from near and far, shouted out ‘Boa Viagem’ to which Costa replied ‘Obrigado, Adeus’.
 
