MUMBAI: Investigators probing the suicide of pianist   are banking on the last two telephonic conversations he had an hour before jumping to his death from the 12th floor of Bandra's Concorde building on September 9.

 “Joseph had called up 8 people an hour before his death. Six did not receive his calls. He spoke to a female friend for 45 seconds and to a male friend for 58 seconds. We are trying to ascertain what he said to them, if he told them of his intention to end his life and if he held anyone responsible for it,“ said Bandra senior inspector  . Both these friends are based abroad and police have called them for recording statements.
 
 Police are going through textWhatsapp messages exchanged between Joseph, his mentor and Indian-American media entrepreneur Rishi Shah and his friends. “We have seized four cellphones for analysis, including Joseph's and Shah's,“ said an officer. On Thursday , police recorded the statement of vocalist  , a friend of Joseph's, and a building watchman. Statements of 11 people have been taken so far.
 
 As Joseph's friends had warned him to stay away from Shah, police believe Joseph was torn between his friends and Shah. “ A few hours before his death, Joseph had been taken to a house party , hosted by Tej Brar, at Bandra. One of his musician friends took him to the party . We are probing what happened there and how Joseph's behaviour was when he left for home,“ said an officer.
 
 Rishi Shah on Thursday neither denied nor admitted to facts that surfaced after TOI reported a resident had told police she saw Karan perched precariously on the ledge of his 12thfloor apartment four days before his suicide. “What is the allegation? What's the story? I never opened the door nor spoke to anyone when they came inquiring that day ,“ he said when TOI asked him about the incident. “I cannot comment on this now because it's being investigated by police but there's a whole big story out there. It's not just about one part,“ he said.Meanwhile Karan's friends and music mates who suspect foul play have started an online hashtag #justiceforkaran to collate credible information about what was going on in his life before he committed suicide.
 
