MUMBAI: Miracles do happen. An  , found with its front flippers severed after it was trapped in a  , is set to swim once again, thanks to an artificial flipper that has been fashioned especially for her.

 A veterinarian from Vakola fitted the indigenously made plastic flipper to the  , giving her a fresh lease of life.
 
 The crippled turtle was brought to the Injured Sea Turtle & Wildlife Transit Centre in Dahanu during monsoon last year without the left flipper and a 4-inch stump for the right one.“It was trying desperately to move but just could not," said Dr Dinesh Vinherkar, visiting veterinarian for the state forest department who was instrumental in designing the artificial flipper, likely the first ever.
 
 Of the four flippers that a turtle has, the front two help it to swim and change direction.After the Dahanu turtle's injuries healed, the stump of its limb was measured and a plastic flipper was fabricated.
 
 “Initially , we were not sure it would help as generally the body tends to reject any foreign object. But in this case, it was almost a miracle,“ said Vinherkar. “Within an hour of attaching the artificial flipper, this turtle started inching ahead. We were surprised at how quickly she had adapted."
 
 The bone and muscle of the stump help push the flipper and facilitate the turtle's movement, he said. Four days later, the plastic flipper was removed to check if there was any abrasion to the natural limb due to friction. “We did not find any such injury," he said.
 
 There's still scope for improvisation. Vinherkar said they will soon make a new flipper of fibre plastic -a material that is used to make fishing boats. “Fibre plastic does not decay or rot in water. So, it will not harm the turtle when it is released in a water body . Such crippled turtles cannot be released into sea," he added.
 
 The success of this experiment has brought much excitement at the transit centre, managed by Wildlife Conservation & Animal Welfare Association and housed on the forest department's Dahanu campus.“We are glad our first attempt was successful," said Vinherkar. “We often find such crippled sea creatures. Now, we will develop more such flippers."
 
