NAGPUR: On Nitin Gadkari’s 60th birthday on May 27, his “long-time friend” former   leader Girish Gandhi is opening an education facility that is named after the Union minister for road, surface transport and harbour. It is coming up in Narkhed, which is Gandhi’s birthplace and is about 100 kms from here.

 Called the Shri   Agriculture and Skill Development Centre, it would provide training to the farming community in latest technologies and also arrange lectures from agriculture experts in various fields like horticulture, soil management and dairy technology. 
 
 The centre would be inaugurated by Assam governor Banwarilal Purohit on the morning of May 27. In attendance will be several other dignitaries. Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, who was to be present, has cancelled due to other engagements.
 
 On the same evening, there is a big bash to celebrate Gadkari’s birthday at the historic Kasturchand Park in the city for which the Nagpur bench of   has given the clearance. The application to the collector to hold this programme was moved by Gandhi. 
 
 Though Gandhi is not associated with any party, on Tuesday, the   nominated his son Nishant in its list of co-opted members to the   (NMC). According to party sources, Nishant’s name was suggested by Gadkari.
 
 Gandhi has neither taken Gadkari’s consent nor has he invited him for the inaugural function. “He was upset that I have named the centre after him. But I was firm on dedicating it to him. It’s the reason I haven’t officially invited him, but he’s free to come,” Gandhi told TOI.
 
 Gandhi, who is also active in the city social circuit, said that if after Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh, there is a “second person who thinks so much for the farmers and always wants to work for their welfare, it’s Gadkari”. Deshmukh was the agriculture minister in Nehru’s cabinet and the state agricultural university, headquartered in Akola, is named after him.
 
 The Gadkari centre, which will have “state-of-the-art facilities” according to Gandhi, has been set up in 2.5 acres at Thadipawni in Narkhed which comes in Nagpur district. The land belonged to Gandhi and the campus is named after national leaders Gandhi-Ambedkar. 
 
 It has a capacity to accommodate 150-175 farmers at a time with three cottages for resource persons who would guide the participants. To be operated under the aegis of Krushi Vikas Pratishthan, where Gandhi is the chairman, it also has a large dining hall to accommodate 90 persons.
 
 “The site was selected as it’s my birthplace and located at junctions of three districts — Amravati, Wardha and Nagpur. It’s opened basically for the poor farmers and women from self-help groups (SHGs) and would be operated on a no-profit basis. Recently, we conducted about seven to eight free workshops. We would be charging a nominal fee only if required. Our aim is that poor farmers should get best of facilities and training at our centre,” he said.
 
