NEW DELHI: The opposition caravan is set to move south, with opposition parties likely to hold their next joint rally in  . It is learnt that DMK will be the future host of the anti-BJP camp, with a large political rally to be organised to convey the message of unity in the southern region.

 The opposition rallies started with a massive gathering in Patna organised by RJD of   on August 27. It later moved to Gujarat where a rally was held by the Congress.
 
 This one turned out to be a low key affair for various reasons with the chief highlight being Congress' decision to leave out Sharad Pawar-led NCP accusing it of being the “B team of the BJP“.
 
 The two shows have covered northern and western regions. While DMK would take care of south,   is likely to organise a public rally in West Bengal, possibly in Kolkata. What seems to be delaying matters is the fluid political situation in Tamil Nadu, with   riven with dissension and questions being raised if the government commands a majority in the assembly.
 
 The disqualification of 18 dissenting AIADMK MLAs has further thrown the state into disarray.
 
 Since DMK is the principal opposition player in the state, the party focus has been trained on the unfolding confusion, seen as a possible reason for the rally not having been finalised yet.
 
 The idea of joint rallies was final ised in an all-party meeting called by Congress chief   on the last day of the monsoon session of Parliament on August 11. During the discussions, political leaders had argued that joint programmes were necessary during the inter-session phase of Parliament to strengthen unity among anti-BJP parties and to spread the word that a partnership was gaining ground to oppose the ruling saffron camp.
 
 There has been greater cohesion in the opposition camp in taking on the government inside Parliament.
 
 Parallel to the joint rallies, the breakaway faction of JD(U) led by  , which has aligned itself with the opposition, is also holding “sanjhi virasat bachao sammelans“ across cities.
 
