NOIDA: Visitors to Noida’s   can expect some relief from   woes in the near future. The under-construction multi-level parking facility in the area will be completed by June, a month prior to its target date of July 2017. This was announced by chief executive officer of Noida and Greater Noida authorities, Deepak Agarwal, on Saturday.

 According to the CEO, they were fast-tracking the project keeping in mind the dire need for the facility in the gridlocked commercial area. The multi-level parking facility, which is being developed opposite Hotel Radisson, will have manual parking based on ramps. It is expected to house six floors including two basements, and once complete, a total of 3,085 vehicles will be able to park at the facility. Work on the project commenced in July 2013. 
 
 Agarwal also reviewed three more important projects—Film City parking, elevated road and Shilp Haat— which are also under construction. “I have taken stock of the work being carried out at all the concerned construction sites and have directed officials to expedite work on all of them,” he said. “I have also asked my officers to instruct the contractors of all the projects to employ extra labour, put into operation enhanced resources and machinery and re-plan the target schedules,” he said.
 
 While the   underground parking facility, proposed to house 1,600 vehicles, is facing a six-month delay and will be ready only by December 2017, the city’s first elevated road is racing towards completion as per schedule. 
 
 “This key six-km elevated stretch from Vishwa Bharti School in Sector 28 till City Centre (Sector 32) will be ready for traffic in June this year. It will also Sector 61’s   to the two places,” he said. 
 
 Once complete, the 16.63metre-wide elevated road will ensure seamless flow of traffic at busy stretches along its route, as nearly seven points on this stretch will become signal-free. Commuters use the stretch to reach Ghaziabad via NH-24 and East Delhi.
 
 Noida Authority additional CEOs also inspected a slew of other under construction projects in the city. These included the long-delayed bridge across the Yamuna at Kalindi Kunj, among others. “The project is only 57% complete. We have extended the target date for this project from March 31, 2017 to December 31, 2017,” Agarwal said. 
 
 The Shilp Haat, meanwhile, was to be completed by June this year. “We expect the civil work to be complete by June 2017. The entire project will be in place only by December this year,” the CEO said.
 
