KOLKATA: An indigenous software programme used for the first time to collate data and publish the merit list for admission to ME/MTech and interdisciplinary courses at Jadavpur   has played foul, putting the university in the dock. This is the first major goof-up in the recent past, raising hackles among the university teachers who fear the lapse makes   prone to challenge in court. 

 According to JU sources, the software was used without a trial run, keeping the dean of engineering and the vice-chancellor in the dark. Even as the university has withdrawn the merit lists, many among the 2000-odd candidates have taken snapshots of both the lists. 
 
 JU VC Suranjan   couldn’t deny the lapse that gives students in the first list an option to move court even if the university makes amends in the merit lists. The VC gave a piece of his mind to members, mostly contractual teachers handling the admission process. Das has also ordered an inquiry into the lapse. The admission committee will upload the revised merit list after its meeting on August 2. 
 
 The mishandling of the admission scene began when the teachers in charge tried to ape the practice followed in the WBJEE. “They have no idea that students have a greater choice in ME/MTech along with interdisciplinary courses, extending the number of choices to as much as 40. Those overseeing the system overlooked this point. As a result, the software programme failed to capture the data uploaded by applicants,” an engineering faculty teacher said, admitting it was a loss of face for the university.
 
 Explaining the complex admission process, engineering faculty dean   said: “This year, a student can opt for all departments and courses, provided he fulfils the eligibility criteria. July 3 was the cut-off, and after that it was left to the software for an applicant to select the best choice. This was introduced to avoid physical appearance of candidates. What’s more, the admission process has several layers — GATE students, non-GATE students, sponsored and self-sponsored students along with those under the reserved category. The algorithm was complex that the software failed to capture.”
 
 But it wasn’t just a software problem. University sources told TOI there was no supervision in data entry, that doesn’t rule out the scope for corruption. Even scanned copies of many marksheets or certificates were not legible. It came up in the admission committee meeting, following which the university decided on physical verification of all documents on July 18.
 
 JU uploaded the erroneous merit list at 12.50am on July 22. The IT team detected the errors immediately and list was partially corrected before it was brought out at 4am. Finding that it was beyond repair, the first list was withdrawn in an hour. Some of the students who had their names in the first list couldn’t see their names in the revised list. They complained with screenshots of the first list. This led the university to withdraw the revised list on July 24.
 
