Nagpur: Even though CBSE’s Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) scheme for Std IX and X is to be scrapped from 2017-18 academic session, the board has decided to make a major change in the gradesheet (mark sheet) from the current session itself. The 2017 summer exam gradesheet will have only Std X grades unlike the earlier   practice of publishing even Std IX grades on it. This change wasn’t expected till summer of 2018. 

 Anmol Badjatia, principal of   said, “This certainly came as a surprise to us. Also there won’t be any descriptive indicators published in the gradesheet from now on.” Badjatia added that the change does not pose any academic problems for students. “It’s probably a change keeping logistics in mind. Regardless, students who did not do well in Std IX will be extremely happy that their grades now won’t be reflected the final Std X gradesheet,” said Badjatia. 
 
 KK Choudhury, CBSE’s controller of examination informed schools on March 15 about this change. “After due consideration it has been decided that this year onwards   will not include Std IX result in gradesheet-cum-certificate of performance of Std X. This provision will be application to both board-based and school-based candidates”, Choudhary wrote to schools. But the board advised principals to still conduct the Std IX summative and formative assessments in its true spirit and failures of Std IX should not be promoted to the next class. “Further, in Std X for co-scholastic areas, certificate will be issued separately by the school,” added Choudhary. 
 
 Also, for the current academic session CBSE has decided to collect CCE data (marks and reports) of Std X online only. The online data entry window began on Monday and will be opened till April 20. The board has warned schools to ensure timely completion of the task failing which a heavy penalty will be levied. If any school misses the deadline then the fines will range from Rs5,000 to Rs20,000. While the online data will be updated in the CBSE servers, a hard copy for records will still have to be sent to the regional CBSE office.
 
 A few months ago CBSE decided to do away with the CCE scheme for Std X, which meant the return of the traditional board exam. The current format gives only 30% weight to board exams in the total marks scored, and that too from half the syllabus. The first batch under CCE format appeared for Std X exam in 2011 and the last one is currently giving the exams. 
 
 
