VELLORE: A 22-year-old   died at Government   in   on Sunday, two days after she underwent a   section and gave birth to a baby girl. 

 Alleging  , the relatives of the woman staged a road blockade with the newborn baby demanding action against doctors and paramedical staff who were on duty.
 
 Meena, wife of Kumar and a resident of Mangapettai panchayat near Arakkonam, was admitted to GH on Thursday night with labour pain. She underwent caesarean on Friday. Doctors told her family members that the mother and child were doing well. They were shifted to a ward later.
 
 Around 10.30pm on Saturday, Meena started feeling a pain and informed her relative Sangeetha, who was staying with her. 
 
 Sangeetha approached a duty nurse and told her that Meena was feeling uncomfortable. The duty nurse allegedly told Sangeetha to remain calm as it was normal after surgery.
 
 Meena was unable to withstand the pain, and Sangeetha approached the nurse again. However, the nurse allegedly did not respond. 
 
 Close to midnight, Sangeetha approached the nurse for the third time and told her that Meena was unable to sleep due to pain. The nurse gave some tablets and asked Meena to take it, relatives said.
 
 Around 2.30am, Sangeetha checked Meena and found her lying motionless. Suspecting something was wrong, she rushed to the nurse, who was asleep, and informed her. The nurse checked Meena and allegedly told Sangeetha that she had died.
 
 Denying medical negligence, medical officer (MO) of the GH Dr Jeeva said they "suspect cardiomyopathy for the death of Meena". "It is a rare condition that cannot be predicted," said the MO.
 
 Denying the relatives’ version, he said Meena developed complications around 6am on Sunday. Duty doctor Sugunya tried for two hours to revive her. However, Meena died around 8am, added the MO.
 
 On Meena’s relatives’ charges against the duty nurse that she was sleeping and did not attend to the patient, the MO stated that she was busy with some other emergency cases.
 
 Dr Jeeva further said they would conduct postmortem to ascertain the cause of the death. 
 
 The relatives of Meena staged a protest outside the hospital demanding an explanation. They resorted to a road blockade and brought the traffic to a standstill on the Gandhi Road for nearly 15 minutes. Police pacified them by saying they would take appropriate action.
 
 The relatives said the duty nurse and the doctor were responsible for Meena’s death. They demanded stern action against them for their irresponsible and lethargic attitude. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
