MUMBAI: It’s been three weeks but tomatoes continue to   in the absence of   Despite the abundant availability of robust and   across the country,   are continue to cite “extreme shortage and crop failure” as reasons for charging five times the normal rate.

 Greengrocers are charging Rs 100 per kg while some odd suppliers in Breach Candy, Borivli I C Colony, Sion and Thane are even demanding Rs 110-120.
 
 Mulund resident Sumit Sengupta, who visited vegetable stalls on J Nehru Road on Monday, said, “Tomatoes were selling for Rs 100 per kg. Sellers were quoting Rs 50 for half a kilo to soften the blow. Regular customers though were given a 10% discount.”
 
 Similar scenes were witnessed at the Four Bungalows market. “A greengrocer quoted Rs 90 per kg but when I bought 250gm, he charged Rs 25 instead of Rs 22 saying small quantities would be charged at the rate of Rs 100,” said a local, Fazil Ahmed.
 
 Rates were similar in the Andheri municipal market, Lokhandwala Complex, Khar market, Dadar’s Plaza Market as well as in Navi Mumbai.
 
 At I C Colony, vendor Rajan Gupta of Churchway store seemed to have mistaken tomatoes for apples. “We are charging Rs 110-120 since all tomatoes are now coming from Kashmir. The crop has failed in Himachal and Punjab. Nashik is supplying 20 trucks as compared to the usual 500.” Though the arguments do not hold water, his customers could scarcely argue and paid accordingly.
 
 Mumbaikars were anxious that food prices would rise further once the Maharashtrian-Gujarati Shravan observances began on Monday. But vendors have refrained from escalating the prices of vegetables, which are already on the costlier side with some costing Rs 60-80 per kg, despite the onset of Shravan. Fruits too cost dear with apples priced at Rs 150-180 per kg.
 
 Vikhroli fruit vendor Rakesh Gupta of Rakesh Fruits said, “Shravan and Ramzan are merely excuses for unscrupulous vendors to raise rates in an artificial manner. Apples are still selling for Rs 160 per kg as they were a few weeks ago.” A food mall is still charging Rs 280 for six large imported apples.
 
 
