No man can survive as an island unto himself. He is naturally designed to be social. One of the great Greek philosophers of all times, Aristotle, remarked, “Man is by nature a social animal”, and so he is. Indefinite seclusion and reclusiveness are not natural to man and therefore bound to affect his health and well-being. 

 Loneliness and isolation appear to be as destructive to the heart as anxiety and a stressful job (2). The incidence of coronary   as well as risk of stroke was found to be up by about 30% as a result of loneliness and social isolation (2). They have been known to increase the risk of early mortality (3), alter immune system and cause illnesses (3), the psychological outcomes of which are low self-esteem and   (2). 
 
 Consequently, depression leads to heart disease. The connection between   is incredibly irrefutable (1). Not only does a heart break cause depression but depression also can come back and cause untold damage to the heart. Heart disease and depression are prevalent, serious and markedly linked. It is no wonder then that feelings of isolation and loneliness easily give way to depression and finally to heart disease (1,2). Research has proven that the incidence of heart diseases in persons with depression is significantly higher than those treated for or those who did not have depression. Studies reveal that effective treatment for depression improved the risk of poor   (1). In addition to being socially involved, getting treated at the right time for depression seems to be the mantra.
 
 Over years, we have accepted the importance of eating healthy, understood the need to breathe healthy, endorsed the idea of living healthy. Perhaps the need of the hour is recognizing the need to address loneliness and isolation (2) so as to achieve complete health in body and mind. Meditation has been found to be of immense help in reducing the feeling of loneliness and depression (4). 
 
 Encourage simple practices that connect the body and mind, acquire techniques that relieve stress and put a smile back on your face, inculcate habits that harness energy and improve overall human health.
 
 
 
 
