PATNA: The Patna Police’s SIT (special investigation team), formed at CM Nitish Kumar’s behest to probe the racket pertaining to   (BSSC)’s job examinations, is for now concentrating on the role of BSSC chairman Sudhir Kumar in the question paper leak.

 Sources said the SIT examined the 1987-batch IAS official for 45 minutes on Friday but failed to extract vital information from him. It will quiz him again on Monday. 
 
 “A questionnaire has been prepared for the chairman in the light of arrested commission secretary Parmeshwar Ram’s confessional in which he alleged involvement of the chairman,” said an SIT officer, preferring anonymity.
 
 “Kumar sounded hesitant while replying to certain questions on Friday. The SIT is yet to know from him the location of printing presses where the question booklets were printed. He will also be asked about the role of other commission officials in handling the examination questions,” the SIT official said, adding their investigation was yet to identify the point from where the questions were first leaked. 
 
 The four-phase examinations, that were marred by the question leak and subsequently scrapped by the state government, were to be held on January 29 and February 5, 12 and 19. The results were to form the basis of the BSSC’s recommendations for filling up 13,000-odd clerical vacancies in the state government departments.
 
 The scam surfaced after the second phase of examinations on February 5. The sources said some candidates have provided documents to the SIT, suggesting the questions of the examinations to be held on February 12 and 19 had also been leaked.
 
 An alleged con man,  , who was arrested from   in   on February 4, has in his confessional before police accepted his links with secretary Parmeshwar. “Pawan had been running his own job racket for years... He has helped several youths get jobs by leaking question papers in lieu of bribes,” another senior police officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, Patna zone IG   on Saturday reviewed the progress of SIT’s investigation into the job scam. “The probe is moving in right direction,” he said.
 
 After the review meeting, Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj told newsmen about two more arrests --   of Phulwarisharif and Gaurishankar of Rajiv Nagar -- in connection with the job scam. “Sharma, also into property dealing, provided lists of candidates to Parmeshwar (for passing them) while Gaurishankar was the centre superintendent of BSSC’s AVN School exam centre,” he said, adding the number of arrests in the case has gone up to 18.
 
 IG Khan and SSP Maharaaj refused to comment on BSSC chairman Kumar’s statement to TOI that it was the responsibility of police and administration to ensure free and fair examinations. Talking to this newspaper over phone on Friday, the BSSC chairman had also wondered why police did not take action even after TV news channels on February 5 reported the question leak.
 
 
