Are you as sad as I am with the winters getting over so quickly? Seems like yesterday that the year changed and now it’s already March! But luckily there are still a few days of that lovely nip in the air. While you hold on to the winter that are fast retreating, here are few things you can try out that will keep the cold at bay, yet keep it light and make you look stylish!

 
 The very word reminds me of Karisma Kapoor! She wore them with such aplomb! 
 Whether you are a college going girl or an office going woman these blazers are for everyone to look chic. I would suggest one with gaudy, eye-popping buttons. You can also just stitch new buttons to your old blazers to get this look too. From checked fabric to unusual colours, every bazaar is flooding with these. Team them up with pencil skirts for a formal look or just play with a turtle t-shirt for a casual twist. 
 
 
 This is one of my favourite outfits to work with especially now that I’m five months pregnant and I could do with some wiggle room! These are casual, smart and amazingly comfortable! Shirt dresses work just fine alone but if you are planning to wear them during a chilly evening, you can mix it up with a contrast jacket. To make it even edgier just slip in your dusted crop top on your shirt dress. 
 
 
 Absolutely love them and not without reason! The fabric of these duster coats is always flattering and it flows perfectly with any body type. It’s perfect for this fickle time of the year. They keep you warm but it’s still very breezy! I usually wear dusters on top of my bodycon dresses but it works amazingly with denims as well!
 
 
 This is an amazing option for anyone who doesn’t want to spend too much time thinking on an outfit. These jackets work with anything you choose to wear! Don’t be afraid to team your jacket with long flowing dresses or with an oversized-short-dress. As 80’s and 90’s fashion is still coming back in waves, pick a denim jacket with some stickers or painted ones. You can also stick on sticker on the jackets you have owned before to give them a new life! 
 
 
 This is the perfect time to experiment with sleeves! The ruffle sleeves, bell sleeves, shoulder puffs and dolman sleeves are here to stay and it is the easiest way to give your old clothes a new and fashionable look. It will also help you beat the cold winds. So pull your old denim skirt and team it with the flashy sleeve top to turn up for your next brunch and revel in the attention!
 
  
  
 
 Avantika Mohan's suitcase and her cupboard define her. "There are only two things I am good at: travel and clothes. My day job in aviation and my passion for all things stylish take care of both!"
 
