 tore down the bust of   and   at   here in the early hours of Tuesday and dumped it in the Mutha river nearby . The police later arrested four men for the incident -two each from the Sambhaji Brigade and the Swabhimani Sanghatana.

 Sambhaji Brigade issued a statement justifying the act, arguing that Gadkari had made derogatory remarks against Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj -son of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj -in his play , Rajsanyas, which was written 90 years ago.
 
 However, the unsavoury incident sparked strong protests from Marathi literary organisations and writers, with the Natya Parishad and the Marathi Sahitya Parishad staging a dharna outside the garden on Jangli Maharaj Road during the day. Several writers took to social media to condemn what they termed a “cowardly act“.
 
 The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) acted quickly to prevent the issue from going out of hand with mayor Prashant Jagtap assuring that a new bust to Gadkari would be installed at the same spot.
 
 Corporators from all parties also decided during the PMC general body meeting that, within two days, an oil painting of the playwright would be placed in the garden till the new bust was installed. Additional municipal commissioner Rajendra Jagtap said, “We will check the condition of the bust that has been removed from the garden. If it is damaged, we will have to make a new one which will require permission from the state government's directorate of arts.“
 
 The police are yet to trace the bust which was dumped into the river. “We carried out a search in the waters but could not find it till late Tuesday evening. We will question the four men about where exactly they dumped it and continue our search on Wednesday ,“ said deputy commissioner of police (zone-I) Sudhir Hiremath.
 
 The four men who were taken into custody by the Deccan Gymkhana police on Tuesday evening were identified as Pradip Kanase (25) of Narhe, Harshavardhan Magdum (23) of Balajinagar in Dhankawadi, Swapnil Kale (24) of Charholi and Ganesh Karale (26) of Chandus village in Khed taluka. Kanase and Magdum belong to the Sambhaji Brigade while Kale and Karale are from the Swabhimani Sangha tana.
 
 They have been been charged under section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. A complaint was lodged by PMC's garden superintendent Ashok Ghorpade.
 
 Owning responsibility for the act, Sambhaji Brigade district executive president Santosh Shinde told TOI, “In Rajsanyas, Gadkari had depicted Sambhaji Maharaj's character in a derogatory way . For the past 10 years, we have been requesting the municipal authorities to remove the bust from the garden. Our men removed it on their own as the authorities failed to take action.“
 
 Meanwhile, the PMC has issued showcause notices to the security officials working in the garden. “We have asked them for a report, after which it will be decided whether to take action against them for negligence,“ Rajendra Jagtap said.
 
 The PMC is presently building a new entrance to the garden. The garden is open to the public from 6am to 11am and 4pm to 8pm. Two security guards patrol the garden at night.
 
 Guards unaware of the incident: Cops The four men who knocked down the bust of playwright Ram Ganesh Gadkari entered Sambhaji Garden from the rear end, CCTV footage obtained from the garden shows.“Within minutes, they pulled down the bust and fled with it.The guards in the garden were not aware of the incident,“ senior inspector Ajay Kadam of the Deccan Gymkhana police station told TOI.
 
 Kadam said one of the suspects posted about the incident on social media. “I got a call from a person who had read the post. We went to the garden around 7.30am and found the bust missing. The guards realised that the bust had been taken away only after we informed them,“ he said.
 
 Kadam said the four men were picked up from Hanuman Tekdi. While Pradip Kanase and Ganesh Karale run their own businesses, Harshavardhan Magdum works in a private company and Swapnil Kale is an HR executive with a software firm.
 
 
