Shyam varnam saundrya bhutim pratimanah asti (Beauty resides in dark colour and texture) is what the author of  ,   wrote. But after the Mughal and British invasion, we have somehow developed an antipathy towards dark skinned people. Obsessed with fairness, we have stopped admiring the beauty in the dark. Actress and former  , Sobhita Dhulipala speaks about breaking the fallacy of fairness, because dark is delightful. Excerpts:

 
 It is saddening to see how India has fast become a nation of wanna-be albinos. If people were wise enough to understand that skin colour plays no role in boosting one’s charm, a lot of products wouldn't be sold today. Many institutions over the years have successfully created a sense of unnecessary inferiority complex amongst people for their gains. And now that it is established and people feel deficient due to something as irrelevant as skin colour, they are being exploited. It is a marketing ploy. A pitiable, disastrous one. 
 
 
 
 Not just women, a lot of men too are obsessed with fairness and equate it to class or beauty or status. This obsession is rooted in our colonial history when whites came into our country and made us believe that we weren’t good enough, and ruled over us for centuries. What is tragic is that we are still there. 
 Here is a simple fact — no self-respecting, aware person would take skin colour seriously. And if you do place much value in fairness, it means you suffer from a shortcoming of self-confidence and don’t realise that being ‘fair’ will not help. Get yourself better heroes, my friend. There's much more to life than validation.
 I’ve known a lot of inspiring and terrific people. Not once did my attention waver from their words to their skin. I have never seen skin colour as an attribute or a quality. We are a product of millions of years of genetic genius. Respect it. 
 
 
 
 Read books. No, really. I mean it. Read books, realise who real heroes are, watch the news, take a walk down the streets and observe the world around you. We live in a world of such inequality, especially in India. You have so much to be happy about. Use your time to be of some help. At least to grow creatively. Don’t let a pigment called melanin decide what your worth is. You are beautiful.
 
