BENGALURU: The tag of an ‘inspirational leader’ doesn’t sit too comfortably on 44-year-old Nayana Udupi’s brow. Although she is counted among the handful of   in the country who have built a successful career in the corporate world, Nayana is convinced that all transgenders have the potential to accomplish what she has, if they are given the chance. 

 Nayana has been working as a vendor manager at ThoughtWorks India for the past two years. Prior to her entry into the corporate world, however, she underwent travails aplenty, including spending two years on the streets of Pune.
 
 “When I was growing up in Udupi, my peers used all sorts of   that were reserved for the  . I came to Bengaluru to do my PUC, before heading back to Udupi to pursue my undergraduation. I was ridiculed everywhere, but I was able to bear it,” Nayana said.
 
 She subsequently enrolled in an advanced diploma course for designers. But, in 2000, jobs weren’t easy to come by for a transgender. “I was able to get some freelance work through a few friends. It went well for some time. But once they learnt I was a  , I lost those jobs too,” Nayana added.
 
 Her attempt at joining the mainstream not having yielded the desired result, Nayana chose to join a transcommunity in Pune. “I was on the streets for two years. But I was not happy. With my qualification, I knew I was destined for something greater. Putting that part of my life behind me, I came to Bengaluru,” Nayana said.
 
 She subsequently worked in an administrative capacity at an  . It was at this juncture that an opportunity at ThoughtWorks India opened up. “We were on the lookout for a qualified transgender candidate, when we learnt about Nayana,” said Tina Vinod, diversity and inclusion lead, ThoughtWorks India. 
 
 However, it took Nayana some time to blend in at the company. “She came to the office once every week, and interacted with the marketing team. She was interested in designing, but her skillset did not meet our requirement. So, we sent her to a course in graphic designing,” Tina added.
 
 Meanwhile, the top brass of the company set about sensitising the other employees towards their new colleague. “We have around 300 employees now. As vendor manager, Nayana interacts with many departments, and is also responsible for design,” Tina said.
 
 Last week, Nayana met 30 transgenders, who were looking to make inroads in the corporate sector, and shared her experience with them. She said it was one of the proudest moments of her life. 
 
 
