MUMBAI: While several   are raising questions over BMC’s decision to stop collecting wet waste from   after October 2, a residential complex in   seems to have nothing to worry. The 236-flat society not only segregates waste but has gone one step further to micro-segregating the waste and getting it recycled.

 The 36-storey   in   has been treating its waste for three years. While residents segregate the waste into wet and dry, two housekeeping staffers who collect it, microsegregate it. Wet waste is sent for composting, and dry waste is micro-segregated. This is because there are different prices for each kind of dry waste—old newspaper goes for Rs 10 per kg, shopping paper bags Rs 5 , and packaging cardboard Rs 8 . The money generated is paid to the two housekeeping staffers employed to segregate and treat their waste over and above their salaries. 
 
 The society also allows them and the domestic helps working in the building to take away discarded toys, clothes and books that are in good condition. Besides, tetra packs which are thrown away with dry waste, are cleaned and dried by the housekeeping staff, and handed over to Sahakari Bhandar in Worli. “Upon handing over a certain number of tetra packs, we get a sitting bench or a waste paper basket made of thousands of tetra packs,” said Jayant Broker, a resident who has been driving the segregation and treating of garbage.
 
 The housekeeping staff is given rubber gloves and facial masks as well are protective measures while they carry on their work every day. 
 
 He said this began three years ago even though residents first started to move in to the building in 2007. “We were not happy with the kind of compost being used in the society garden. We decided to compost our kitchen waste. Initially we bought three tumblers for it, now we have nine. Over time, the amount of waste has increased with people’s consumption pattern having changed,” he added. 
 
 Broker added that while they have been making efforts to micro-segregate their dry waste, there are many items for which they do not find any taker. “We especially do not find anyone willing to take packets of chips and namkeens,” Broker said. “It’s important that authorities identify items that cannot be recycled and ban them. In case they are not banned, then such companies should be made to pay a penalty for damage to environment,” he added. 
 
 
