Gurgaon: After Delhi, now Haryana   have approached the   and threatened to go on strike if the state’s new motor vehicle tax is not taken back.

 From April 1, taxis, buses and other commercial vehicles are paying anywhere between Rs 100 and Rs 3,000 daily to enter Haryana. 
 
 And, according to the transporters’ unions, over 8.5 lakh vehicles in Haryana, including over 30,000 from  , will go off road if the transport department does not roll back or at least reduce the  .
 
 More than 350 transporters from   held a meeting with state transport officials in Jhajjar on Monday and demanded the rollback of the entry tax.
 
 “We clearly told officials of the state transport department that the increase of the entry tax around 10 times for some categories of commercial vehicles is not logical. We are already paying toll and state fee, but such a motor vehicle tax is a burden for us. We will not ply vehicles if we sustain losses and are unable to pay our drivers,” said Suresh Sharma, president of All Haryana Truck Transport Association.
 
 “Such steep hike in entry tax pose an existential risk to the industry and could compel many bus service providers to stop service. Needless to say, that many people will lose employment,” said Ashwini Sharma, president of Automobile Carrier Welfare Association, Gurgaon. 
 
 The chartered bus services in Gurgaon, which were introduced to cut down the number of cars on road, too have been hit hard by the new motor vehicle tax. 
 
 Shuttle, which runs over 300 buses between Delhi, Gurgaon and Noida to ferry office goers, was paying around Rs 11,000 a month as taxes. Now, the amount has jumped to Rs 90,000.
 
 “This sudden increase in tax for a 35-seater vehicle essentially amounts to 60% of the total operating cost of the vehicle. Such steep increase in tax rates poses an existential risk to the industry,” Amit Singh, co-founder, Shuttl, told TOI.
 
 Earlier, no taxes were collected at the Haryana border because the motor tax for goods and passenger vehicles was to be paid to the excise department while a road tax of Rs 950 for three months was paid to the regional transport authority. 
 
 From April 1, these charges have been consolidated into the motor vehicle tax that is being collected by the transport department.
 
 
