BENGALURU:   reported a 0.3% rise in revenue in constant currency in the first quarter that beat analyst expectations, pushing up its stock by about 5% in morning trade on the New York Stock Exchange. In April, the company had said it expects to de-grow by 2% or report at best flat revenue in the June quarter.

 Its decision to buy back Rs 11,000-crore ($1.7-billion) shares at a price of Rs 320 a piece -the second such move in two years -will also bring cheer to investors. The price is 24% higher than the average price of the stock for the last six months. The growth still remains way behind that of larger rivals Infosys and  , as a drop in growth in sectors such as healthcare and communications more than offset the rise in banking, financial service and insurance (BFSI) and its India business.
 
 For the quarter ended June 30, Wipro reported a revenue of $1.97 billion -a sequential rise of just 0.9%, which translates into incremental revenue of only $17 million. BFSI and energy segments grew 4.1% and 3.2% respectively, led by digital initiatives, while the volatile India business rose by 10%. Net profit from its IT services seg ment was $339 million.
 
 “In the last four quarters on a run rate basis, we lost about $120 million in the healthcare business. That uncertainty is there. We have leadership posi tions in providing public ex change service in Obamacare and we don't know what is go ing to come. There have been a large number of project cancel lations,“ CEO Abidali Nee muchwala said on Thursday The healthcare & lifesciences business skidded 2.9%. The company provided a tepid guidance for the second quarter, factoring in the sluggish healthcare and communications businesses. The Bengaluru-based company expects revenue in the quarter to be between -0.5% and 1.5%. COO Bhanumurthy B M said, “Communications is a bit of a lumpy business and is going through a transformation.“
 
 Margins took a massive hit, dropping to the lowest levels in at least five quarters to 16.8%, from 18.3% in the same comparable period. “We had 130-basis-point (100bps = 1 percentage point) impact from adverse forex movements and 20bps from wage hikes for the quarter. This is the first time after a long period where we have seen the rupee appreciating. As we get into Q2, we have two months of salary impact to mitigate,“ CFO Jatin Dalal told TOI.
 
