You may want to call it a magic mat that tells you what your natural walking style or gait is; but it’s also a mat that holds potential for security surveillance at the perimeter walls of  .

 The mat has an array of thousands of sensors on its surface to detect pressure applied at various points when a person walks on it
 
 Indigenously developed for the first time, an   reveals whether a person has a problem with his   and diagnoses what the problem could be. But the same mat can also reveal whether a person is faking his walking style. Its features also enable it to be placed inside perimeter walls of high-security installations for   to monitor whether an infiltrator has breached the security.
 
 Scientists of National Institute for Locomotor Disabilities (NILD) under the Union ministry of social justice & empowerment, Kolkata, have developed this mat, which is in the process of being patented and displayed for the first time at the   in Tirupati with the theme ‘Science & technology for national development’.
 
 The mat has an array of thousands of sensors on its surface to detect pressure applied at various points on the mat when a person walks on it. NILD senior research fellow, Sudip Mondal, told Bangalore Mirror that this electronic mat is primarily designed a d developed to sense pressure to analyse the walking gait. It detects differences between normal human walking motions and injuries-induced motion to make diagnoses.
 
 He explained that when a person walks on the electronic mat – called eWalkNILD, or more commonly referred to as ‘gait analyser’ – the sensors embedded on the mat’s surface relay pressure details. For instance, it relays data on how much pressure the left foot creates and compares with that put by the right foot when a person walks on it.
 
 If the pressure, added with the direction of the foot and the body and arm swing, detects uniformity, it concludes the gait to be normal for the person with that particular body build and height.
 
 In case there is a disparity in pressures, which in turn leads to abnormal body swing – much like what a person injured in the foot displays – it diagnoses what the problem could be.
 
 The mat primarily holds applications in sports medical field to inform athletes what the problem could be when they have difficulties in running or walking.
 
 Another NILD senior research fellow Bipin Kumar said the mat can also detect whether a person his faking his walking style or not. Many a time people – especially youngsters – try to emulate walking styles of their sports idols. The electronic mat can detect a put-on style, although it would suggest that there is nothing wrong with that medically.
 
 The NILD researchers said that because of the features of the electronic mat, it can also be pressed into service for security surveillance.
 
 The mat for diagnostic purposes is about five feet long and two feet wide; but the same can also be developed in much longer strips – say, each strip 30 feet long and two-three feet wide – to be placed inside perimeter walls at high-security installations.
 
 The mat is networked with a remote command centre where the data is relayed in real time. In case an infiltrator breaches the security, the sensors on the mat can relay information saying someone has suddenly inflicted a high amount of pressure o the mat – which can mean that an individual has either jumped on the mat from the perimeter wall or cut through the wire to crawl on the mat without realising that he/she is on a mat with live sensors relaying back data on their movements.
 
 The mat developed by NILD is in the process of being patented.
 
 Nayan Roychaudhuri, a social worker attached to NILD is engaged in spreading awareness about the mat among those with physical disabilities as well as athletes to familiarise them with this latest technology.
 
