JAIPUR: Once the undisputed leader of   in the state, Rajasthan’s own brand   is now being eaten up by other brands in the sector. The sale of ghee, butter and cheese is witnessing a negative growth while flagship products like packed milk and curd has seen a negligible increase. 

 Annual progress report of   ( ) tabled in the assembly on Monday paints a bleak outlook of the federation. Average sale of milk for 2016-17 (till December) was 19.21 lakh litre per day against 19.10 lakh litre during the same period last year. The net increase was recorded just 0.60%.
 
 Other products like ghee growth dipped by 14.17%, cheese by 1.39%, tetra pack milk saw drop of nearly 17% during the same period. Growth figures for all these products for past three years too were not encouraging for RCDF. 
 
 For the dismal record, officials pointed the arrival of new players with deep pockets and huge budget on marketing. “Rajasthan is still our stronghold and we have market share of about 75%. However, there has been penetration of other players particularly from Amul and Mother Dairy. They have been aggressively marketing their products and that has certainly affected the sales,” said senior official of RCDF. 
 
 Another reason officials attribute to low sales is losing out on tenders for supplying of milk, cheese and butter to Indian Army. Armed forces are one of the biggest customers of dairy products. 
 
 However, official added that their staple products like buttermilk, lassi, cottage cheese, including milk, are actually doing well compared to others. “Our buttermilk and lassi has unmatched quality and are doing extremely well and has significant demand in neighbouring states too,” added the official. 
 
 From 37.4 lakh litre in 2013-14, buttermilk sales reached to 42.1 lakh litre in 2015-16. For 2016-17 (till December), it was 44.8 litre which was 31.22% more than previous year’s same period. Besides, shrikhand, ice-cream and flavoured milk too have seen increase in their growth. 
 
 
