KOCHI:  , a young medico while being treated by her own teachers came as a shocker to most citizens. A panel headed by the   found severe medical negligence as the reason for her untimely demise kindling a debate on the callous attitude displayed by some hospitals.

 Police probing the death of Shamna, a second-year MBBS student at Government Medical College, Ernakulam has approached the state medical board for further directives.
 
 Police will file a questionnaire before the state medical board seeking clarifications this week. According to ing to Kochi city deputy com mis sioner Yath ish Chang officer, dra, the investigating officer, they've recorded the statement of all those who are involved in the incident and are waiting for a direction from the state medical board.
 
 “There are some limitations for the police to come to a conclusion in this case. Only the medical board can ascertain whether there was medical negligence involved. We cannot decide on the kind of medicine to be administered or whether there was callousness on the side of doctors,“ said Yathish Chandra adding that the dis trict medical board couldn't reach a unanimous decision.
 
 Shamna had died of a severe allergic reaction to   on July 18, 2016.
 
 A three-member panel which probed the death of Shamna, in its report, had notedthat “casual, indifferent dealing if not callousness was palpable at every stage in the care and treatment given to the patient“.
 
 The panel headed by joint director of medical education (JDME) Dr K Sreekumari in its report stated that the “patient was not ventilated even during critical stages and there was delay of at least 25 minutes in shifting Shamna to an ICU after she developed respiratory distress.“
 
 According to the report, basic life support systems were not available at the nurse's station. There was delay of about five minutes in administering life-saving medicines adrenaline and atropine. Also, a suction apparatus in the ICU malfunc tioned initially.
 
 Dr Jilse George who prescribed the injection, however claimed that his diagnosis was correct and ceftriaxone is the universally approved medicine to be used at such an instance. “She had come to me on January 18 at around 1.30 pm. She's an asthmatic patient. She told me about symptoms like fever, body pain and dizziness along with breathlessness. I found that there was infection on the left chest and presence of water. According to Harrison's principles of internal medicine, a patient with respiratory infection is supposed to be administered ceftriaxone injection. I have administered this several times before and never have a reaction like this occurred,“ said Dr Jilse.
 
 “She was given a test dose of the medicine at around 2.30 pm. My duty time was over by 2 pm and I was not in charge when the reaction and the follow-up treatment was given,“ he said adding that she took admission in pay ward instead of the medical ward where he had admitted her.
 
 A senior medical practitioner close to the victim's family said that the girl only had a viral influenza and an antibiotic injection was completely unnecessary .
 
 “The injection was administered prior to finding the reason for the infection.There was no chest x-ray taken and still the doctor managed to arrive at a diagnosis.Her allergic history also was not taken in to consideration. The infection was viral still the antibiotic injection was administered carelessly and the student died because of that,“ said the doctor.
 
 K A Abooty , Shamna's father has been running from pillar to post for justice. “She was my hope and would have been the first doctor from our village. Apart from being good at studies she used to respect teachers. It is depressing that she died while she was under the care of her professors,“ Abooty had said.
 
