People living in condominiums and residential sectors and working in offices on or around Golf Course Road are likely to get relief from traffic jams and high levels of dust pollution by the middle of the year.

 Golf Course Road is being upgraded to a 16-lane signal-free corridor connecting NH-8 near Shankar Chowk with Sector 55-56. But the makeover has been affected by a series of delays, three so far to be precise, because of various hurdles in land acquisition and parallel construction of Rapid Metro. Consequently, since 2012, the promise of a better future has cast the present in a permanent haze of dust and smog.
 
 The road, particularly the stretch between Sector 55/56 and Genpact crossing, was featured in the first part of our ‘One-Mile Project’ in February, an initiative that seeks to find solutions to chronic problems that people in a particular area face. 
 
 DLF, which is executing the project in partnership with Huda, says the travails will end by June. “This is signal-free road with multiple underpass and flyovers, so there would be no traffic jam and congestion,” said a representative of DLF, adding they will carry out massive plantation and landscaping along the road to make the entire stretch a green road. That, the company representative said, would lead take care of the dust pollution problem.
 
 The representative said road construction is at an advanced stage and the landscaping work will start immediately after. “Plantation will be done during monsoon. The rainy season is good for plantation because the survival rate of plants is better,” said the official. 
 
 He said work was delayed due to several reasons, besides a component of the project, the Phase 5 underpass, that was introduced later.
 
 Delay in construction of Rapid Metro’s Phase-II elevated corridor on Golf Course Road has been one of the factors responsible for the makeover process slowing down. But the Rapid Metro project is also now close to the finishing line, which should help speed up work on the remaining stretches of the road. “Our project is in the final stage of completion and the process of securing requisite approvals to commence commercial operations at the earliest have been initiated,” said a Rapid Metro spokesperson.
 
 Admitting that pollution from construction activities had been a major concern, Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav said companies engaged in construction work are expected to follow guidelines. But Huda itself has been lax in ensuring rules are followed.
 
 The other major problem in the Sector 56 area is a sprawling ground across that being dug up for a Huda project. Windy conditions mean big clouds of dust are whipped up from there all the time.
 
 Residents had earlier told   they wake up to find fine dust particles accumulated on their window sills, carpets and furniture that had been cleaned the day before. “Gurgaon’s air pollution is a well known problem. But those who live close to this site are more susceptible,” Shilpa, a resident of Alaknanda in Sector 56, had said. “We live in close proximity of the construction site and inhale this polluted air daily.”
 
 Residents said the construction, ostensibly for a gymkhana and park, has been going on for about a year. The mound is currently spread across 5 acres, claimed residents and directly affects homes in the vicinity.
 
 What is the One-Mile Project? 
 
  is called Millennium City but its civic infrastructure has miles to go before it comes up to speed with that name. Years of tardy governance haven’t helped. But a beginning must be made, and that’s what The One-Mile Project intends to do, through participation and collaboration. Every week, TOI will feature a mile-long stretch in the city that has a particular problem, be it streetlights, potholes, leaky sewers, broken medians, vulnerability to accidents, crime, etc. Basically, anything that people living in that area want fixed. We won’t stop there.
 
 We will actively follow up with the administrators and work towards a solution. And it won’t be just us. You can also participate by writing in to us about a neglected stretch and our reporters will follow it up. Together, mile by mile, we can make Gurgaon a better city.
 
  You can reach us at toi.gurgaon@timesgroup.com
 
 
