PANAJI: In a rare moment in Goan politics, four former chief ministers, belonging to the Congress, and all vying for the chief minister’s post, addressed a joint press conference at Panaji on Wednesday. Digambar Kamat, Ravi Naik, Pratapsingh Rane and   took turns to attack the BJP over its “misplaced priorities”, stating that it had ignored basic necessities of the common man during its five-year term in the state. 

 Kamat said the BJP government prioritized the construction of the   concrete road and the third Mandovi bridge over the South Goa district hospital that would have catered to the needs of the poor. The government also abandoned the ring road project that would have helped decongest Margao roads, he said.
 
 Kamat termed the cabinet decision that brought in the requirement of a minimum SSC qualification for a government job as “injustice”, stating that there are a number of posts where the qualification is not necessary.
 
 Naik said, “The government handed over tenancy cases to civil courts and withdrew the powers of mamlatdar in the amendment to the Goa Agricultural Tenancy Act and ignored the troubles of the poor, while completing the mutation process of Manohar Parrikar’s son’s property in a single day.”
 
 “BJP pushed for a cashless state without having infrastructure in place. The government should have ensured 100% literacy rate, power supply and better internet connectivity before deciding that the state should go cashless,” he added.
 
 Rane said the Congress, if it comes to power, will have trained personnel to manage dialysis centres at the taluka level, so that patients with kidney failure won’t have to travel to   in Bambolim.
 
 Although the party promised to increase the Griha Adhar scheme to Rs 5,000 in its manifesto, Faleiro, the GPCC president, said the party would fix the amount on the basis of the price index. “The dirty tricks department of the BJP has fielded a lot of independent candidates to divide the Congress vote, with the classic example being Navelim constituency,” he said.
 
 On allegations that he has struck a deal with  , Faleiro said, “Luizinho has never taken any decision independently. We have taken decisions collectively. We are sitting collectively and we’re fighting elections collectively and our unity, which gives us our strength, will give us our victory.” 
 
 
