Chennai: When 75-year-old Tenzin Korra, a diabetic patient with a festering open wound on his leg had to get his angiogram done it became a nightmare for his attendants. Since ambulance services are provided only for emergencies taking him to and from scan centres, diagnostic labs, hospitals and physiotherapy centres proved extremely difficult. Hoping to come to the rescue of elderly people and the differently disabled seeking long-term treatment, online platform startup Medikoe has tied up with Mphasis’ supported initiative KickStart. With the collaboration, patients and their attendants will be able to plan out long-term treatment and travel. Recognising the fact that any operation or treatment plan is not a one-off, but requires multiple visits by the patient and attendants, the two startups hope that their packaged deals will prove beneficial and take care of transport needs over a two-three month period or longer. “For any procedure — it never ends in one or two trips to the hospital. First, people need to go for a consultation, then get diagnosed, have tests, scans done. Then another consultation and then finally the surgery scheduled. And even after that there will be post-operative care, trips to pharmacists, check-ups,” said Sreevalsan Menon, founder and CEO, Medikoe.com Medikoe, which recently got $100,000 in angel funding from Anil Menon, CEO of CMS Computers, said that ‘many of us take normal activities such as boarding a bus or climbing a flight of stairs for granted. For senior citizens with arthritis, muscular dystrophy or severe immobility issues, doctor visits can be gruelling. And calling an ambulance for weekly consultations can be drastic. So our packages will include routine events such as doctor consultations.’  The site, which has more than 1.40 lakh users, has ties with Manipal Hospitals, NM Medical Diagnostic, Nightingales Home care, Positive Homeopathy and 250 other business partners. “We offer 500 plus deals ranging from dental treatment to cardiac surgeries. With this travel option, users from our site will get a 10% discount on trips via KickStart,” said Menon. Bengaluru-based cab provider KickStart hopes to leverage on Medikoe’s larger customer base. “Currently, we have 1,000 plus customers; with 95% repeat customers. We have done more 10,000 trips since we started out,” said Srikrish Siva, CEO, KicKStart Cabs, which hopes to launch its services in Chennai this year. In India, most public facilities and transport are not disabled-friendly and it was this need that founders Vidhya Ramasubban and Srikrish Siva hoped to bridge with their startup. KickStart’s cabs are fully equipped to accommodate wheelchairs and have more space and leg-room than the average cab. The startup has also trained its drivers to help people in and out of cabs and buildings and charges between Rs 700-Rs 800 for a two-hour trip or every 20 km . KickStart said that predominately its customers were senior citizens who face severe to low mobility issues. “We have patients, who are suffering paralytic strokes, heart attacks, nerve disorders, rheumatoid arthritis and accident victims, who are temporarily disabled. We even have regulars, who use our services to go to work, college or physiotherapy sessions. So with this tie-up, we are hoping to offer more comprehensive services to our clientile,” said Siva.