AHMEDABAD: Following in the footsteps of   (AMTS), the state government on Monday approached the Gujarat high court against the direction of the   (NGT) in New Delhi to the Gujarat government and its arms to not buy heavy diesel vehicles without its permission.

 On February 16, the NGT restricted the purchase of heavy diesel vehicles in response to an application by one Mushtaq Qadri, who cited the high court’s order to the state government to make all vehicles plying in Gujarat switch to natural gas to curb air pollution. The state government could not file a reply to the NGT’s notice for a transfer of Qadri’s application from the NGT’s Pune bench to the principal bench in New Delhi. The NGT, however, has said it would decide on the preliminary issue of jurisdiction later.
 
  AMTS and   (GSRTC) prayed for the high court to quash the NGT order on the grounds of jurisdiction. They claimed that the Pune bench has the jurisdiction for issues pertaining to Gujarat, and without deciding on jurisdiction, the NGT in New Delhi ought not to have imposed any restriction on the purchase of diesel vehicles.
 
 GSRTC plans to buy 1,600 diesel buses. AMTS has also hired 300 diesel buses since 2014, on the grounds that running diesel buses is more cost effective than CNG buses.
 
 A bench headed by Chief Justice R S Reddy will hear the issue on Thursday.
 
 Interestingly, the state government is knocking on the court’s door for permission to buy diesel vehicles after having accepted the HC order banning heavy vehicles using fuels other than natural gas, to reduce pollution. It never questioned the HC order and the one year’s time granted for the government to implement the order lapsed a long time ago.
 
 After having accepted the HC order for all gas-run vehicles in Gujarat, the government is now defending the use of diesel for heavy vehicles. It claims that the Bharat State EURO-IV emission standards for heavy duty vehicles and engines for PM (particulate matter) are computed at a level of 0.02, which is perfect for keeping pollution under control, according to the Centre.
 
 AMTS has already given up on CNG
 
 AMTS has got a fleet of 913 buses, out of them 308 buses are having EUROIV diesel standard. It has 66% buses running on CNG, but AMTS is fed up with CNG buses. It tells HC that CNG buses have “much more difficulties with respect to its purchase cost, maintenance, break down and life span…maintenance and other cost with respect to the CNG buses are much more in comparison to the diesel buses. On financial aspects also diesel buses are more effective then CNG buses”. This has led AMTS to hire 300 diesel buses since 2014, even after HC passed order for only gas-run vehicles in Gujarat.
 
 For Gujarat govt, diesel engines better than CNG-run vehicles
 
 In April 22, 2016, the state government made its stand clear that it prefers diesel over CNG to reduce pollution. In an affidavit before the high court, it cited a study report of   to highlight how diesel engine technology is improving day-by-day. It also cited a comparative study on CNG versus low-sulfur diesel engines by the Mashelker expert committee, which said that driving a “CNG vehicle for one mile emits 20% more greenhouse gases than driving a diesel vehicle for one mile. From the perspective of global warming, the decision to switch to CNG from diesel is a harmful one. CNG vehicle emit 80% less particulate matter and 35% less hydrocarbons. However, the output of carbon monoxide is five times greater than diesel”. The government also said that if CNG is used, there is a reduction in particulate matter but other pollutants show a considerable increase. In fact, there is considerable increase in the emission of greenhouse gases in actual driving conditions.
 
 Govt survey of old vehicles
 
 A survey report placed before the court in 2015 by the state government was surprising as it gave a clean chit to all vehicles older than 10 years after checking by state authorities, because all were found to be in good condition and were conforming to the norms. The HC pulled up the government and said that the report was not bankable and ordered the GPCB, RTO and various other agencies to conduct an extensive survey to find more about the emission levels of diesel vehicles that are 10, 15, 20 and 25 years old.
 
 Time’s View
 
 On July 25, 2015, to curb air pollution, the Gujarat high court issued two directions. The first to ensure that the gas price in Gujarat was in line with the price in Delhi. The second ordered all vehicles to use natural gas as fuel. There was much chest-thumping by the state government over the success in the legal battle for the reduction in gas price. But the second part of the court order was forgotten. The government’s insistence on purchasing diesel vehicles now appears in stark contrast to its dogged approach to phase out petrol-run autorickshaws from Ahmedabad and to replace them with CNG-run autos. The move has pushed many auto drivers to suicide. Even after the HC order, it appears there is no effort to phase out old, polluting diesel vehicles. The authorities must apply the same yardstick to all — private players as well as to itself.
 
