PATNA: First year trainee teachers organized a farewell party for their seniors (2015-2017 batch) at   on Tuesday. The programme began with a prayer service that was followed by a welcome song by the college choir. While BEd students (first year) Aakansha and Neha presented a short video film — Golden Memories — dedicated to their seniors, Piniki Nisha (MEd) and Nikita Kevin Natal (BEd) shared their experiences at the college for two years.

 College rector Fr Joseph Maripuram SJ said, “You came to this institute with big dreams and now it is time to fulfil them. Shine like a lamp wherever you go.” Principal Fr Thomas Perumalil SJ also extended his best wishes to the outgoing students.
 
 Faculty members Dr. Madhu Singh, Deep Kumar, Sushil Kumar Singh, Dr Vikramjeet, Dr Nimisha Srivastava, Sujata, Dr Shobha, Smita and Vijayshree attended the programme.
 
 DAV-BSEB: Under the aegis of DAV Centre for Academic Excellence, a two-day training workshop on ‘Capacity Building Programme of English for Classes I to X’ was inaugurated by DAV schools’ (Patna zone) assistant regional director Indrajit Rai and DAV-BSEB principal Dr V S Ojha on the school campus on Tuesday. 
 
 The workshop was divided in four sessions on functional grammar, speaking skills, strategies for teaching and writing skills. 
 
 The Resource persons of the programme were Shristi Singh and Parul Raj (DAV-BSEB), Vinita Kumari (DAV-Khagaul) and Manish Shrivastava (DAV-Transport Nagar). The vote of thanks was given by R K Tiwari.
 
 Mt Carmel High School: At least 50 models on traffic system, electricity, pollution, wind mills and disaster management were put on display by the students of Lohia Nagar Mt Carmel High School at a science exhibition on Tuesday. 
 
 The exhibition was inaugurated by traffic SP Prantosh Kumar Das and IAS U K Chaubey. Das asked the students to follow traffic rules and ensure that their parents do the same. School director Minu Singh and teachers were also present at the event.
 
 
