NAGPUR: While   call the practice of assigning duties stretching 24 to 48 hours “inhuman” and “exploitation of doctors”, the college, state administration, senior doctors, teachers and officials of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) feel residency itself means “working round the clock”. They see it as a   that has been there for ages, and should continue.

 “Everyone has gone through this stage and, naturally, residents today too should follow suit. It is a part of the learning and knowledge process. Residents cannot   in the right way until they are observing and following a patient over a period of time continuously. They get to learn whether the diseases is progressing or worsening, or the patient is recovering, only when they are on the job round the clock. And it is not true that residents have to work for so many hours at a stretch always,” said Dr AV Sangawar, vice dean (post graduation) of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH).
 
 Addressing another grievance of resident doctors, a member of Medical Council of India (MCI) from Delhi confirmed to TOI that residents are entitled to just 15 days   and 15 days sick leave. “They are students, and hence the number of hours that they put in are called as learning hours and not working hours. They are paid stipend and not salary. Their programme is residential,” he said. But he also said that the working conditions for residents had not changed over the years. They cannot work in an unsafe and unhealthy environment, he added.
 
 The president of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) at GMCH Dr Dinesh Sharma, however, claims that there are no written or unwritten rules. “As per  , a resident should be available 24X7, which doesn’t mean that he should work for 24 hours. Also, in 2010, the Supreme Court of India had given a ruling that residents should not work more than 12 hours at a stretch, and more than 48 hours in a week. A huge majority of residents get tuberculosis and many other infections from the hospital. But we don’t even get treatment leave,” claimed Dr Sharma.
 
 Dr Sagar Mundada, chairman of youth wing of IMA and past central MARD president, too supported Dr Sharma and quoted the SC ruling. He says that since residents are at lowest step in the hierarchy, emergencies should always be dealt by seniors. “Residents are there to learn. But what will they learn if they don’t get even 10-20 minutes to see a patient due to patient load. They, in fact, need more time than seniors for diagnosis,” he said.
 
 A senior official in DMER said that if the head of the departments plan duties properly, and are considerate, residents would not have to work for so many hours. “But they need to have patience and sturdiness to learn medicine properly,” he said.
 
 
