COIMBATORE: The eerie silence in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital’s   was broken by Ilayaraja’s poove sempoove on Wednesday afternoon, waking up Shanmugham from a siesta. “I love this track. It reminds me of the good old days and makes me happy,” the 60-year-old man said.

 The group of college students, who began with slow numbers, had more melodies in store for the   fighters.
 
 The hour-long programme was arranged by the  , a Chennai-based NGO. R Manonmani, managing trustee of the foundation, said it was her second son’s wish to use   to alleviate symptoms of anxiety, pain and fatigue in cancer patients. “I lost Ashwin to leukemia in 2015. But I am fulfilling his dream,” she told TOI.
 
 Manonmani said the NGO had conducted such sessions at the Cancer Research Institute in Gujarat, Bengaluru and Chennai. “My son wanted to bring music as a therapy for cancer patients because he benefited by it during his treatment in San Diego. Music reduces nausea, pain and also induces sleep. It is also a good remedy for mood swings,” she said.
 
 Chitra, wife of a cancer fighter, said it is a welcome change. “Usually, the atmosphere in the   is very depressing. Music not just soothes the patients but also the relatives and the hospital staff,” she said.
 
 A group of 15 students from the PSG College of Technology, PSG College of Arts and Science, PSG Institute of Management, Government Arts College, PSGR Krishnamal College for Women, and the GRD College of Arts and Science played musical instruments and sang for the patients. 
 
 R Keerthana, a first year MBA student in the troupe, said she wanted to be a part of the initiative when she heard about the initiative. “We are all music lovers. However, performing for these patients is a different experience. After today’s session, we will get feedback from the patients and the staff of the hospital and play music of their choice,” she said.
 
 Swathi B, a student from the Government Arts College, said she is a member of the college’s NSS unit and would get more singers from the college to join them.
 
 Resident medical officer of CMCH Soundaravel said that the event will be conducted twice a week. “We are grateful to the foundation and the volunteers. We will set up more speakers next time and slowly extend it to other wards as well,” she promised.
 
