PUNE:   arrested two   for hitting another motorcyclist with a helmet on Thursday evening.

 The   incident took place on the Jail road in Yerawada. 
 
 The victim, Aniket Chandrakant Dhane (21) of Jay Jawan Nagar in Yerawada, lodged a complaint with the police following which Sikandar Chotu Khan (33) of Yerawada and pillion rider Shabda Abdul Nagwan (19) of Meethanagar in Kondhwa were arrested.
 
 According to the police, the incident took place around 7.20pm when Dhane was heading home. Dhane alleged in the complaint that the Khan was riding in a rash manner, zigzagging all over the road, and also speaking on his cellphone.
 
 Dhane shouted at them, and told Khan to ride in a proper manner. He also advised them not to speak on the phone while riding the bike. Enraged by this, the duo immediately confronted Dhane. 
 
 The enraged duo first abused him verbally, and then manhandled him. In a fit of rage, one of them picked up a helmet and smashed it on Dhane’s head, causing injuries. 
 
 Yerawada police said that the duo assaulted Dhane even though he never challenged or even threatened them.
 
 According to the police, Dhane works in a private company and was returning home after work. He attempted to retaliate, said the police, but failed. The suspects are casual labourers.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Dhane was not reachable for comment.
 
 Criminal attacks autorickshaw driver with sword
 
 In another case, Chinchwad police booked a criminal assaulting an autorickshaw driver with a sword on Link Road in Chinchwad early on Thursday morning. 
 
 The driver — Ashish Hanumant Gaikwad (25) of Pimpri — lodged a complaint with the Chinchwad police. According to police, the suspect, while riding his motorcycle, halted abruptly. 
 
 This caused Gaikwad’s autorickshaw to brush against the bike. Furious, the suspect assaulted Gaikwad with a sword before fleeing the spot. 
 
 A combination of contempt for rules and a lack of consideration for fellow motorists has seen a steady rise in road rage incidents on Pune’s roads. 
 
 In January this year, Marathi actor Aroh Welankar was abused and assaulted by two men on  , when he was waiting in his car for a friend. The two men were arrested. 
 
 In March, a   was stabbed twice by a motorcyclist for   on the wrong side of the busy Fergusson College (FC) road.
 
