BHOPAL:   department is contemplating setting up of 3,000   in government schools across all 51 districts in the state. 

 Sources said each district would have at least 30 smart classrooms as per the proposal drafted by Rajya Shiksha Kendra, Bhopal. "We are preparing a proposal for its budget, as we are keen on multiplying the number of smart classrooms for primary and middle government schools. We will be having at least 30 smart classrooms for each district in the state and we will have a total of over 3000 such classrooms," said official sources. An interactive training programme will be conducted for government school teachers to introduce them to smart class technology once proposal is approved. "Ambitious initiative will be set off with training of teachers," sources added.
 
 The proposal aims at providing education to students through audio-visual interactive teaching and multimedia computer-aided smart classes, which would make teaching more effective. Moreover, technology-driven methods would also make learning interesting for the students. Model schools will be identified where smart classes will be launched to provide education via audio-visual methods in composed environment to sustain the interest of students. "The smart classroom is a proven mechanism that helps in quality enrichment through technological intervention and we are looking at ways to have more such classes in future," said MP RTE nodal officer KPS Tomar. He said that such technology makes teaching more effective and learning easier to comprehend.
 
 If the proposal gets government approval, each smart classroom will have a smart board, computers and projectors. Students and teachers will also be provided with tablets. The tablets will have entire course list and apart from the usual course, puzzles and mathematical games to engage students. Meanwhile, the department-related parliament standing committee on HRD recently recommended for smart classes in government schools and to bring out time-bound programmes.
 
 
