PANAJI: As the procession for the   commenced from   and culminated at the   on Saturday, the entire stretch reverberated with thundering sounds of dhol, tashe and  .

 Like each year, this edition of the festival, too, did not fail to present a musically-stimulating and visually-appealing parade. While locals lined up by the streets to witness the vibrant festival, foreign tourists jumped in to take selfies with the traditionally-dressed participants. “All the costumes are very bright and colourful. I am very impressed with the synchronisation in all the groups. I’ve seen similar festivals in Rajasthan, but this is more colourful and exciting than that,” said Julia Geoka from Ukraine.
 
 Another tourist,   said that he’s “crazy about drums”. Watching the participants play them with an upbeat pace at Shigmo is what drew him to the festival.
 
 “The rhythm is so stimulating. But, I don’t know anything about the history about this festival. I googled some information about it before coming here but the feeling and excitement is unlike anything I’ve seen before,” he said.
 
 This year, the event was organized by the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) in association with Panaji Shigmo Samiti. The CCP kickstarted the event with a new feature at the festival which comprised floats on social awareness. These entailed a tableau on law by the district legal services authority, Panaji and another one on the traditional mud instrument, ghumot.
 
 St Andre Ghumot group presented the ‘ghumot’ tableau in collaboration with the organizers of the recently-held ‘ghumot’ festival. The 3x3 feet tall ‘ghumot’ which was installed at the Ghumotachem Fest last month was the highlight of this tableau. The special ‘ghumot’ is made by Usgao-based artist Ramakant Shet. The group also exuded syncretism by way of having their artistes dressed in copels (flower tiaras) while beating their ‘ghumots’ and other percussions.
 
 “In folk dances, the use of ghumot is vanishing. This tableau is, therefore, an effort to bring the mud instrument back into focus,” said secretary, Panaji Shigmotsav Samiti, Shantaram Naik. Significant episodes of Hindu mythology and Indian history were displayed in the form of floats and through folk performances by a number groups; artistes of which ranged from children to senior citizens.
 
 One tableau featured the demon-god Kumbhakaran in deep slumber while other demons around him tried to shake him awake. Another showed his brother Ravan elated with the kidnapping of Sita: a representation of Sitaharan.
 
