PUNE: The city’s   seem to be skirting the Lohegaon facility because of high airfares to international destinations and opting for more “pocket-friendly” airports like Mumbai, Delhi and Hyderabad.

 The   (AAI)’s latest data reveal that the international passenger traffic growth at the Lohegaon   has been the lowest in the past three years (till December 2016). The international passenger traffic between April and December 2016 here reported an increase of just 3.4% — the weakest three quarterly performance in the past three years.
 
 From the 1.82 lakh international passengers logging at the airport between April and December 2015, the number went up to only 1.88 lakh in the same period in 2016 — just a 3.4% growth and the lowest since 2013. The domestic passenger traffic growth also dipped from 29% in April to December, 2015 to 25.6% in the same period in 2016.
 
 A senior Lohegaon airport official told TOI that the international passenger traffic growth here might have slowed down because of several issues.
 
 “The runway length of the airport is shorter and can accommodate Airbus A321, while international aircraft are bigger. Hence, many international carriers do not fly to and from the Lohegaon facility. Besides, airfares for flights connecting Pune with international destinations are steeper than those from other cities like Mumbai and Delhi,” the official said.
 
 “For instance, the airfare from Abu Dhabi to Pune might be over Rs 8,000 per person, while a ticket from the same place to Mumbai might cost Rs 6,000,” he explained.
 
 Another airport official said the demonetization move on November 8 also might have played a role in slowing down the international passenger traffic at the Lohegaon airport during November and December 2016.
 
 In November 2016, the international passenger traffic grew by about 1.7 % in comparison to November 2015.
 
 Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture director-general   said, “Intense marketing done by other airports might have pushed international passengers there, giving Lohegaon airport a miss. In addition, passengers may also find it more convenient to fly to and fro international destinations through airports other than the Lohegaon airport.”
 
 Aviation consultant G S Bawa said, “Lohegaon airport is a defence airfield and has limited capacity. A greenfield airport has, therefore, been planned in Purandar.” 
 
 
