NEW DELHI: Three months after it busted an espionage ring masterminded by ISI and   staffers in Delhi, the   has submitted a chargesheet against four of the arrested men, including   MP Chaudhary Munawwar Salim’s personal assistant Farhat Khan.

 The parliamentarian has been listed as a witness in the case along with 12 others. The Pak High Commission staff, Mehmood Akhtar, has not been charged due to diplomatic immunity. The Indian agents are Maulana Ramzan Khan and Shubhash Jangir from Nagaur, Rajasthan and Soheb Hussain from Jodhpur.
 
 The accused have been charged under sections 3 and 9 of Officials Secrets Act and IPC Section 120B (criminal conspiracy). In the 19-page chargesheet accessed by TOI, which has annexures running into around 200 pages, the Crime Branch has given the list of documents recovered from the men stating how national security was compromised by this espionage module.
 
 The documents range from “fire plan of the Army” to the position of surface-to-air missiles, apart from details of deployment of the armed force in Sir Creek. The information passed posed a grave threat to the lives of soldiers. The police have included a detailed report on the documents given by the military intelligence.
 
 The documents recovered from accused Ramzan Khan by military intelligence contain deployment of Pakistan Navy and Marines in Sir Creek area of the international border with Pakistan. 
 
 “The documents are classified and Pakistan can carry out corrective deployment to gain operational advantages during war. The information can be useful to an enemy country in planning its operations against India,” the report reads.
 
 The report adds that documents recovered from Hussain are restricted material as they illustrate the logistic model and fire plan of the Army. The documents seized from Farhat Khan pertain to minutes of pre-evaluation briefing on trials of short range surface-to-air missiles.
 
 Khan is also accused of having misused the MP’s office in procuring the documents and delivering it. The MP has also lodged a complaint against him. The documents recovered from Jangir were sensitive, but don’t fall under the purview of Official Secrets Act. However, he has been charged for being actively involved in the conspiracy. “On the day of the operation, Ramzan Khan came to deliver the confidential documents to Mehmood Akhtar accompanied by Jangir. Further, the owner of the cyber cafe in Nagaur has stated that the duo used to come there to download details from the BSF website,” the police report reads.
 
 A special team led by joint commissioner (crime) Ravindra Yadav had on October 26, 2016 arrested Akhtar and the three Indian agents from outside Delhi zoo while exchanging the classified documents.
 
