HYDERABAD: Several shopkeepers and hawkers in the city openly sell their wares in plastic bags below 50 microns illegally, raising serious health concerns.The littered plastic travels through storm water drains, resulting in chocking of manholes. Some of it even drains into water bodies. The same plastic near the water bodies is consumed by cows, which kills them.

 (Management & Handling) Rules, 2016, issued under Environment (Protection) Act, state that bags made of recycled plastic should not be less than 50 microns in thickness. The   (GHMC) has barely made any effort to curb the usage of plastic this year.
 
 According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), 15,342 tonnes of plastic waste is generated in India per day , of which more than 6,000 tonnes are not collected. “On GHMC premises, around 4,500 metric tonnes of waste is generated every day, of which 5% includes plastic in the form of bottles and bags,“ said   , executive engineer (solid waste management & transport) department, GHMC.
 
 Plastic bags above 50 microns can be recycled and such bags are authorised by the pollution control board.The authorized carry bags have numbers printed at the bottom. If the carry bag is made of recycled plastic, then will have a recycled symbol printed on it.
 
 “If the bag does not have a number, it is illegal to sell or store. Food, especially, should not be stored or warped in such bags,“ said a top official of Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) Most of these illegal bags are used by vegetable vendors, hawkers and grocery stores as they are cheaper compared to the stamped bags. Very few people carry bags from home when they visit markets, while most prefer to purchase bags at market or expect to get it from vendors free of cost.
 
 Shopkeepers rue losses if they don't provide consumers with plastic bags for carrying their commodities and request the authorities to provide them with plastic bags at a cheaper rate.
 
 “Most of them go to another stall if I don't provide them with a carry bag. We cannot ruin our business for the sake of environment,“ said a vegetable vendor at  , popularly known as Madanapet mandi.
 
 Reacting to the vendors, authorities say the main aim of TSPCB is to curb usage of plastic and requested consumers to use jute and cloth bags instead of plastic. “The charges of the plastic bag should be borne by the consumer and not by the seller, according to the norms. The decision was taken to discourage people from using plastic,“ said Ravinder, official spokesperson of TSPCB.
 
 “This year we have concentrated more on eateries.Inspection of plastic bags is being carried out at zonal levels,“ said  , additional commissioner (health and sanitation), GHMC.
 
