 Pilibhit: As many as six villagers including a 60-year-old woman and two five-year-old boys were mauled by two sub adult tiger cubs at Pandri village under Neuria police station on Friday morning. The spot is about 2 km from Mahof forest range of Pilibhit tiger reserve. The victims sustained injuries and were shifted to the government hospital for treatment. While villagers claimed they were attacked by a pair of young tigers, forest department officials dismissed the allegation, calling it an attack by a rabid dog. However, the SHO of the nearby police station who inspected the spot told TOI that he had found pug marks of tigers and that the forest department was wrong.  Villagers have expressed anger at the forest department’s position and now plan to lodge a complaint with the district magistrate.​  Refuting the version of forest officials, SHO of Neuria police station Jaspal Singh Gwal told TOI that he had inspected the field where the tigers mauled the victims and also found pug marks. . He said many villagers working in the fields had also reported seeing a pair of young tigers.  Expressing his anger over the forest officials’ version, gram pradhan Ishwari Prasad said he would present a letter to the DM to draw his attention to the matter.  Prasad claimed that Budhsen (32), Ganga Ram (65), Kaushalya Devi (60), Dalpat Singh (32), Ankit (5) and Vaminal (5), all residents of Pandri village, were attacked from behind while they were sitting on their haunches harvesting wheat in a field. The first three had to be shifted to the district government hospital at Pilibhit while the others were being treated at the Neuria community health centre.  When contacted, the medical officer at the district government hospital, Dr SP Singh, chose not to disclose if the victims were clawed by a big cat or bitten by a dog.  On his part, divisional director of social forestry Adarsh Kumar insisted that the villagers had been bitten by a rabid dog. “I have information that this dog was killed by villagers in Mahof colony on Friday afternoon when it returned after attacking the six villagers at Pandri,” he said.  Kumar said the departmental team did not find any tiger pug marks at Pandri but prints of a dog. He was of the view that the villagers had made up the story for getting a compensation of Rs 1 lakh each from the department.