MELBOURNE: The   world still shudders at the mention of  . The two-time Wimbledon champion, a heavyweight absentee from the Australian Open, suffered a horrific knife attack in the Moravian town of Prostejov in the Czech Republic about a month ago. All five fingers of the 26-year-old's left hand were injured when she tried to defend herself against an as yet unidentified man, who gained entrance into her apartment posing as an electricity maintenance worker.

 World No. 1 Andy Murray said that while athletes live under a constant security threat, what happened to Petra is shocking. Czech  , 38, the oldest player in the singles field who was romantically linked to Kvitova, said that while the physical wounds might well heal, the mental scars were another thing. “She's naturally a fighter but it's one thing to show people and quite another when you close the door of your home. To spend time alone at home is going to be very difficult (for her),” he said.
 
 Czech  , seeded 10 at Melbourne, stressed: “One just can't be careful enough.” 
 
 The 31-year-old, who splits time between homes in Monaco and Prague, simply shakes his head. “Now, after it has all happened, it's easy to say that she should've been more careful... still there are things that you can do to protect yourself. Of course we are living in the 20th century so why are these things happening? But we should still think ahead, especially if you're alone at home.”
 
 Stepanek attempted to reconstruct what exactly happened. “When someone wants to check the status of your water boiler, ten of ten people (in the Czech Republic) will open the door. We've had these situations in our country before, but they target older people, who can't defend themselves. I think he was surprised that he came to an apartment where there was a young girl, who tried to defend herself. I think he recognized her later on and started to panic.” 
 
 Jiri Vesely , 23, ranked just outside the top-50 and who also lives in the town of Prostejov , not far from Kvitova's, said: “It's really shocking that something like this can happen in a small place. It's unusual for something like this to happen in a small town like Prostejov with some 50,000 people living there. It's sad not just for Czech tennis and sport, but for global sport.”
 
 Murray said `security' was a word that invaded his thoughts every now and then. “When you hear about what happened with Petra, it's shocking. It's fairly rare, but shocking nonetheless,” he said. “When you're travelling you have thoughts that something may be happening, sometimes when you're in large groups of people, you can get a little bit anxious. You just try to continue living your life as is. It's definitely been a tough few years. A lot of problems all over the world. Got to keep your wits about you.”
 
 Berdych preached caution, but wondered about how careful one can really be. “You have to be so careful these days no matter where you are, no matter if you're in a little town inside of the Czech Republic or in New York in the middle of the world. How many times you drive in a car with drivers you don't know?
 
 How many hours you spend in the flights, cars, hotels everywhere, anything can go wrong anywhere.
 
 Vesely said he was scared for days after the attack. “You never know what can happen, if it's just bad luck or if it was really someone was going after tennis players or sportsmen... I was really scared. I've known Petra from a long time, about 10 years. It was really a hard time...”
 
 “The situation in the world is such that it can happen to anyone anywhere. We have to be careful. I think if something has to happen, it will happen. You cannot run away from it, but be careful and think ahead,” he said.
 
