NAGPUR: Congress sprang a surprise on Saturday by appointing Sanjay Mahakalkar as the leader of opposition party (Lop) in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) sidelining the front-runner Praful Gudadhe. This move is only likely to intensify the infighting in the city unit which is already ridden with factionism. 

 Mahakalkar, a third-term corporator, enjoys the confidence of city Congress president Vikas Thakre and his mentor, former MP Vilas Muttemwar. The two were pitching for him right from the beginning. He was elected from seat 30D by a margin of over 2,000 votes. It is rumoured that Gudadhe does not get on well with these two leaders. 
 
 The decision to appoint Mahakalkar as Lop by the   (MPCC) is being seen as a reward to him by state chief   for withdrawing from the MLC elections last year. Chavan has been accused by some partymen for having some kind of understanding with the BJP. BJP’s Girish Vyas won the MLC election unopposed as Mahakalkar withdrew. 
 
 Chavan had sent two party observers Naseem Khan and Vinayak Deshmukh to decide the Lop. The two met all the 28 newly elected Congress corporators in Ravi Bhavan to seek their views. The corporators were made to sign on a blank paper. 
 
 The two shortlisted candidates Mahakalkar and Gudadhe were then called for discussions. After this, the two observers apprised Chavan. 
 
 Ex-minister Khan came out of his room for a brief moment to tell the media at around 4pm that the name of the leader of opposition will be announced in an hour. The name of Mahakalkar was announced after Khan and Deshmukh left for Mumbai. The two leaders apparently feared an outcry if Mahakalkar’s name was announced in presence of large number of Congress activists present in Ravi Bhavan.
 
 Sources in Congress said that most corporators had supported Gudadhe as they felt that fifth-time corporator was best suited to take on the ruling BJP. Only the corporators belonging to the Muttemwar and Thakre camp supported Mahakalkar.
 
 Gudadhe was seen as the most eligible candidate for the LoP’s post. He refused to react on Saturday. “I will express my views on Monday,” said Gudadhe.
 
 A Congress corporator, on the condition of anonymity told TOI, “The party has lost three elections in a row under Thakre’s leadership. He himself lost in the assembly and NMC elections. However, our party bosses have heeded his advice while appointing the leader of opposition. This bodes ill for the party.”
 
 Cong corporator’s resignation accepted
 
 Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar has accepted the resignation tendered by newly elected Congress corporator Gargi Chopra. She had sent her resignation by registered post on Friday. The corporator had cited personal reasons for putting in the papers. Now Congress’ numbers in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) house is officially down to 28. The   will have to hold a by-election for Chopra’s seat.
 
