 is all about smart replies and smarter comebacks. Doesn't mince words when talking about issues close to her heart, but at the same time, daintily waves away tricky questions with diplomatic answers. She's working with big names in the Tamil industry -perhaps the only heroine to simultaneously work with both,   and Vijay, and she has also done a film with Chiranjeevi in Telugu recently . But she's chill about working with all three of them, her answers indicating her comfort level with her mass y co-stars. Here she is, refusing to tell us who's a better dancer between Ajith and   , and also telling us that the   exists...

 
 
 It's my third film with Vijay , and I had a fabulous experience working with him in the previous two films, I should say. With the latest one, I was really excited about the script, and very kicked about the role.Plus, of course, I got to work with Vijay, so...
 
 
 
 Yes, I am working with Ajith sir, for the first time. Of course, I have heard of him; I've been in this industry for 10 years now. I have watched his films, too, and well, we're done with two schedules of the film so far, and it's great working with him. It's a different experience for sure. Both the stars have massive fan following in the south, with fans often clashing over who's the best. So, in that sense, you're working with competitors from the same industry .First of all, let me burst this bubble -there is no such rivalry in real life out there. It is all blown out of proportion fodder for idle gossip. I know that both Vijay and Ajith sir admire each other very much, and have only good things to say about each other. And it's a pleasure working with both of them simultaneously .
 
 
 
 With Vijay -I know he has a fabulous comic timing, I know his nuances, cues, and share a certain comfort level, as I have already worked with him. Ajith sir is more of a quiet actor, though he is extremely involved when it comes to the scenes. He's friendly on the set, and has an instantly likeable personality 
 
 
 
 Each has his own style, and we cannot compare them at all. They are both great in their own way.
 
 
 Yes, I am the queen of diplomacy .(laughs)
 
 
 
 Yes. He's far more senior than either Ajith or Vijay . In fact, I have worked with his son in four movies. So, in that way ,I was intimidated by him earlier. But when I came on the set, he put me instantly at ease. And now, I can definitely say that working with him is cool.
 
 
 Yes, I am definitely OK with speaking up.And yes, casting couch does exist -though I have never had to experience it.But yes, I have heard of it, and have heard actresses say they find it difficult to break into this industry even though they are talented. Heard them talk about how they have to make compromises.
 
 
 
 I have heard only women talk about this.
 
 
 
 There was a monopoly earlier -and what you say applied to the industry say , a couple of years ago. But it is not all dark and grim now, there is definitely light at the end of this tunnel now, and the younger lot are consistently working to change the status quo. Roles are being written specially for women as protagonists -and pay parity seems more of an approachable target in the industry now. We aren't there yet, but we're definitely getting there.
 
 
 Again, I'd answer in the past tense. That used to be the norm a while ago. But at some point, we do have to put our foot down, right? And the younger heroines are bold and clear about their position. I feel I have a right to do what I feel is right, I have the right to my opinion, and if I am not comfortable with something, we do have to make our point felt loud and clear, take a stance and stand firm.
 
 
 
 I have done it, and I have lost out on projects because of it, too. But I am absolutely OK with it. Even I have been objectified in the past -I didn't realise how things worked in the industry in the beginning; I was naïve and I paid the price for it. So, it is not as if it hasn't happened to me, but I learnt from my mistakes, have learnt not to walk down that path again -and I am now fine with where I stand. There's a lot of digital innovation in Indian cinema at the moment, and a lot of good movies can be made -and I want to be part of those movies only .
 
 
 Well, a lot of stars are getting one these days. One gaming company wanted me to be part of it, and I was only too happy .I think it helps reinforce my connect with my fans. It's easy these days -you just have to press a button. It's that personal touch, it's convenient, and real time, and I can touch base with my fans on a daily basis. Of course, it's monitored for violations, etc, as it has built-in filters and all. But well, let's accept it, every tech upgrade has its downside, but it would be stupid to ignore or not use it because of such phobias. I am hoping I'd have more of a chance to having a oneon-one directly with the audience. Plus, I do see it as a trend -it already is in the west, and many stars have done it, and here too, it will catch up soon.
 
 
 
 Bollywood -not for now. I have three films down south, and I am about to sign a fourth one, so maybe after all these projects are done with, I will look at Bollywood. 
 
