Our legislatures are mandated to frame laws, debate issues, and decide on key governance issues. But they are also meant to be political theatres — public arenas where parties act out their roles and stage their performances. Largely of British-origin and inspired by British parliamentary practices, the rules and conventions of legislatures have developed over nearly 150 years and have facilitated drama and spectacle. Some of the excesses that happen there may be distasteful for sophisticated folks but in many ways our legislatures represent our society.

 On Saturday, the   did little that was out of the ordinary at the legislature — the TN assembly has seen far bigger spectacles, so have other state assemblies. The party’s representatives were almost cartoonish, even buffoonish. M K   did the grand act by repeatedly slapping his head with his palm — in a theatrical expression of frustration. Purasawalkam MLA B Ranganathan, known for his rough-and-tough street politics, was gloating as he sat on the speaker’s chair. Some opened their water bottles and poured water on the uniformed marshalls. An otherwise sober professional, Poongothai Aladi Aruna stood on top of a bench and yelled. 
 
 It was an orchestrated performance staged by professional politicians. It probably didn’t go the way the DMK had likely planned. No pressing case was made for the governor to take action against the   government, save throw the spotlight on the broader question of whether public opinion had indeed reflected in the voting.
 
 The image of a disheveled Stalin emerging from the assembly didn’t really ring as true as that of Jayalalithaa in 1989. At that time, the AIADMK had provoked the ruling DMK into hitting back. Jayalalithaa snatched the budget papers from which chief minister M Karunanidhi was reading. His glasses came off too. 
 
 On Saturday, however, the AIADMK members studiously maintained a restrained silence. They refused to be provoked and didn’t react despite the repeated taunts and antics of the DMK MLAs. The speaker getting on the moral high horse probably irked the DMK MLAs further. What happened was probably in keeping with the nature of the two parties — one still democratic to an extent and the other run top-down in a dictatorial fashion where seeking leeway is akin to desiring oblivion.
 
 But, at the end of the day, the DMK can be said to have achieved its ends. Saturday’s events may have created some distaste for the DMK among some people but in the bigger scheme of things it was only a blip. Having been relegated to the sidelines for several months, the DMK has finally seized the initiative. Its working president Stalin has shown he is in complete control of the party and can lead it in the assembly and outside too.
 
 On Saturday evening, Stalin sat on fast at the Marina, which has become a protest venue after a gap of several decades. The party has announced follow-up actions including a fast against the trust vote on Feb 22.
 
 Saturday’s events have likely enthused party cadres to prepare and fight elections that the DMK seems to want to precipitate. Its opponents are at their weakest and public opinion seems to be against Sasikala and her family that is seen to be in charge of the AIADMK and the government. Rebel leader O Panneerselvam’s faction is yet to sink roots across the state. If the Edappadi government were to survive long or if the OPS faction gathers steam, it will be at the cost of the DMK. Stalin has much to gain from having an early election.
 
 
