GURUGRAM: The   ( ) has instructed the city’s civic agencies to strictly implement construction and demolition (C&D) norms, as part of its aim to control air pollution in the National Capital Region.

 As per a letter sent by the board to civic authorities, including MCG and Huda, dust emitted in fugitive form from C&D activities, is also resulting in emission of particulate matter, and thus needed to be prevented.
 
 With directions issued under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act 1986, regarding control of air pollution in the  , the letter states, “Dust emitted in fugitive form from C&D activities is also resulting in emission of particulate matter (PM)... Ensure that all C&D sites are covered, to contain emission of fugitive dust.”
 
 Officials at   (HSPCB) said the central board has sought a report within 10 days. “As per directions of the Union environment ministry, C&D norms include covering C&D site with tarpaulin, mandatory use of sprinklers and providing mask to labourers, etc. With air pollution levels already high, CPCB has instructed authorities to ensure norms are followed strictly, and prepare an action taken report within 10 days,” said a   official.
 
 This is a demand activists have been raising for a while. “We’ve been demanding all C&D activities be stopped till air pollution levels fall. There’s need to temporarily stop at least demolition — which causes more pollution — if not construction as well,” said Niranjan Raje, a former member of Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority.
 
 Some experts advised authorities to look for alternatives to demolition drives. “Demolition drives have increased in the last month. It’s better to look for alternatives such as sealing of buildings, than demolition. Air Quality Index has already touched 400 in January — which is ‘hazardous’ even for healthy people,” said environmental activist Vivek Kamboj. He added demolition drives and road construction by authorities shouldn’t have started in winter.
 
 In the letter, CPCB has also said loose soil should be maintained along roads and open land/parks, vigilance set up to check open burning of waste, and to ensure there is no traffic congestion within city limits.
 
 Sunday saw a drop in the level of PM2.5. At 250 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³), it was way below Saturday’s 450µg/m³. However, it was still about four times the WHO prescribed value of 60µg/m³.
 
 
