CUTTACK: The ambitious plan of developing the areas surrounding the Netaji   museum here into an amusement and recreational zone is caught in a limbo.

 The state government had in 2011 announced to renovate the   pond, which lies right outside the museum, and create a jetty complete with boating facility. 
 
 This apart, the government had also planned to set up an amusement park and beautify the area adjoining the museum. It had conceptualized a project to turn the museum into a tourist destination point. But its yet to see light of the day.
 
 The authorities had also envisaged the construction of a state-of-the-art public convenience-cum-interpretation centre at an estimated cost of nearly rupees two crore. Though the construction of the interpretation centre was completed last year, the museum authorities are yet to use it.
 
 "The interpretation centre is in dire need of repair work. After that's done, we will use the building," said the curator of Netaji museum, J P Das. 
 
 The museum officials said they have plans to set up a souvenir and memorabilia shop inside the building. Besides, few photos of Netaji will be placed therein to make visitors aware about the contribution of the firebrand freedom fighter of the country. The centre will also house conference and meeting halls. 
 
 However, the inordinate delay in construction of the amusement park and boating jetty has irked the residents. "The state government has a tendency to forget the projects after laying their foundations. The tourism project would not only have helped popularize the Netaji museum, but would have also increased the revenue of the   (CMC) from the project. But nobody really cared to implement it," said local Congress corporator,  .
 
 Locals said after sunset the approach road to the museum becomes a hub of anti-social elements. Owing to lack of poor street lighting, locals hardly visit the area after sundown. This was why the light and sound show, introduced in the museum in 2013, had turned into a flop show. "The amusement park and boating facility could have changed the face of the area," said  , a local resident. 
 
