BHOPAL: Peak   months are still a month away, but water has become a highly precious and scarce commodity in   town of Betul district. Almost all tube-wells have gone dry in the town. Alarmed by plunging water table and likely consequences in its wake, the municipality put a tank, main water source, under   surveillance. 

 The district is facing acute water crisis even before the start of March month, surprising for a place in district, which had natural resources in abundance till a few decades ago. On March 3, district collector had imposed a ban on drilling for installation of new tube wells till June 30.
 
 This town with a population of around 35,000 is a place where river Tapti originates from. There are 36 government-run tube-wells in the town with most 1200-1500 feet deep. 
 
 “It’s been a month now. Tube-wells dried up, water level further went down. Here, we get water at 1,000 feet. The tube-wells are between 1200-1500 feet deep, but water level falls below 1500 feet even before the advent of summers. The tube-wells start drying from December and this year by February, all of them had dried up,” Multai chief municipality officer Salim Khan told TOI. 
 
 He said, “There is a daily requirement of 6 lakh litre of water in the town. Of this, we get 4 lakh litres from 12 km long pipeline. Water is pumped to the town from Sirsawadi village. The water is collected in the main tank then supplied to town. The remaining 2 lakh litre water is procured through tankers.” 
 
 “Locals would come there and disrupt process, pressurise officials to provide them water in the past. There were several instances of quarrels over water in the past. With CCTV surveillance, we could put a check on such elements. At same time, private tankers which supply water will be under tight vigil. It will be checked if private tankers are supplying adequate quantity, whether tanker had actually supplied water or not, we will be able to verify logbook entries with CCTV footages. It will help us tackle scarcity of water to a great extent,” Khan said. 
 
 “In view of these problems and looking of long summer ahead, we have installed CCTV cameras for the first time near main water tank of the town,” Khan said.
 
 The district faces severe water crisis. Last year Section 144 had to be imposed on the district due to water crisis and even an instance was reported from Amla town where water was not supplied for five days and a youth opened fired at the municipality employee when he refused to let him draw water from municipal tanker in June 2016. 
 
