KOLKATA: Hours before US President  's inauguration that is set to herald cosier ties between  , the business meet in Kolkata that kicks off on the eve of the high profile ceremony in Washington DC will see Russian and   jostle to scout for   in Bengal.

 The third edition of Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS) will see the biggest ever business delegation from Russia to the state in recent memory , alongwith some heavyweight names from the US industry led by by Silicon Valley consultancy bigwig Frost & Sullivan (F&S). For all practical purposes, BGBS could be the first opportunity for Russian and American companies to discuss future plans as Russian President Vladimir Putin and American President designate Donald Trump work towards closer ties.
 
 Aroop Zutshi, global president & managing partner of F&S said the firm would set up an entrepreneurship development hub and centre of excellence in India. “West Bengal is among the states shortlisted for the investment,“ Zutshi said. The firm has aligned with the Indian ecosystem for the startup initiatives across various industry verticals. Digbijoy Chakraborty bal champion & director , glo entrepreneurship at F&S, said: “C2A GP (Companies to Action Growth Partnership), a unique F&S global model, will be replicated at the centre for development of Indian startups.“
 
 According to him, the centre for excellence in startups will deal with ideation, technical support, business model development and global industry connect and also proviode links with funding and incubation organizations.
 
 “F&S' C2A GP service designed and developed for start ups dramatically improves success rates and allows them to survive and thrive. The programme supports early-stage companies in their vision and strategy , brand and demand and technology and IP ,“ he added. Some of the startups groomed by F&S in India like Vaahika, Symbio Greentech and Turtleye will be present at BGBS.
 
 The Russian contingent has 40 members led by Pavel Borisov , the chief of the Indian wing of Russian Export Centre of Russian Federation. Borisov told TOI 20 Russian firms would participate at BGBS 2017. “We are looking forward to signing MoUs and joint ventures. The companies represent a wide range of food and beverages,“ he said. Some of the Russian firms that will be present at BGS include LINA Ltd, Crimea Wines, KDV Ltd, AgroSoyuz, United Confectionaries, Russkart, Legend of Baikal and Cedrus.
 
