PUNE/ MUMBAI: Household budgets received another blow on Monday after  , Amul, raised prices by Rs 2 per litre. Basic cow's milk will now cost Rs 44, up from Rs 42.Other dairies, some of which had increased prices from Rs 40 to Rs 42 as recently as January , are contemplating another hike to level Amul's rate, citing “shortage of milk and   being paid to farmers“.

 Amul's managing director R S Sodhi confirmed all variants of its brand would be costlier by Rs 2. Cow's milk will rise from Rs 42 to Rs 44. Amul Gold will now cost Rs 52 per litre, Shakti Rs 48, Taaza Rs 40, Slim and Trim Rs 38 and Tea Special Rs 48.
 
 Customers expressed displeasure at Amul's second hike in eight months. “The last increase came as recently as July 2016.Since then there has been no drought, flood or natural calamity .Farmers are scarcely receiving much profit either. The fact is that large dairies are spending too much on advertising and diversifying their product portfolio. All overhead costs and losses from other products are passed on to the customer,“ said Shridhar Sankhe, a resident of Borivli. A leading distributor from Kurla, Subhash Jadhav, said re tailers and wholesalers were being exploited by dairies as well.Jadhav said, “ Amul pays the lowest commission. Our commission has not been increased by a single paisa despite frequent hikes in retail rates. I have proof that dairies do not pay more than Rs 25 per litre for cow's milk to the farmer. Yet they are in a position to increase rates arbitrarily as customers demand high-profile brands. Smaller producers, whose milk is of equally good qu ality, follow suit and raise prices once the largest dairy announces a hike.“
 
 In Pune, the price of cow milk pouches is likely to go up by Rs 2 from next week. Rates were revised from Rs 40 to Rs 42 in January .
 
 At a meeting on Monday , cooperative and private dairies proposed another hike within two months. They will take a final decision on March 10. They claimed they were forced to raise the MRP because of “lesser production of milk, increased expenses and rise in prices of fodder“.
 
