CHENNAI:   on Tuesday announced a partnership with cashback and coupons site   to launch a card-linked cashback proposition.

 The customer loyalty platform provides online and offline shoppers with personalised merchant deals. The offers are currently available on all YES BANK debit cards and will be extended to all other payment products of the bank in the near future which can be used for transacting with merchants.
 
 The bank's cardholders will receive personalised offers on the basis of their shopping patterns, which will be communicated via SMS, emails and mobile app notifications. Customers will receive a message stating their eligibility for cashback and will subsequently receive up to 25% cashback basis the store and type of product purchased by them.
 
 Ritesh Pai,  , YES BANK, said, “We are excited to collaborate with CashKaro.com and add the transformational Card Linked Offers to YES BANK’s existing range of innovative digital banking services. We believe Card Linked Offers (CLOs) will play a vital role in enabling and enhancing the personalised rewards experience to our valuable customers which mirrors their shopping preferences and criteria like location, brands and timing. Given CashKaro’s vast experience in the digital advertising and customer marketing field, we have found the perfect partner to help us enrich our customers’ cashless shopping experience with customized rewards.”
 
 Speaking about the partnership  , co-founder, CashKaro.com said, “CashKaro is proud to bring this unique card linked offers proposition to India with a partner like YES BANK. Card Linked Offers enable customers to earn cashback in the most seamless manner which reflects into their bank accounts instantly. The model also provides increased targeting, reach and revenue to our retailer partners and does not require any integration or training at their end. Hence, we have seen tremendous response from both online and offline retailers eager to participate in the program. Card Linked Offers also mark CashKaro’s entry into the offline space and brings us closer to our vision of being the ultimate savings destination in India.”
 
 
