NEW DELHI: Myntra.com said that its parent company, Flipkart, had hiked its annual budget by   quarter in a bid to bolster Myntra’s position as the country’s largest online fashion retailer. The hike comes amid reports earlier this year that   intends to cut its annual outlay for Myntra. “This year we got 25% extra money from the Flipkart board,” said Ananth Narayanan, chief executive of   that was acquired by Flipkart for $300 million in 2014. He declined to specify Myntra’s total annual budget.

 Narayanan said Myntra would use the additional money to upgrade technology and to also invest in 3-4 small to medium ethnic   to ramp up the company’s ethnic offerings.
 
 “We will just invest in those brands and that will eventually be run by the entrepreneurs. In addition to our operating budget, our board has asked us to thoughtfully invest more in areas such as technology and brands which will help us continue on our growth trajectory and achieve profitability by March 2018,” Narayanan said in an interview in New Delhi. A boost in Myntra’s budget comes close on the heels of Flipkart’s announcement last month that it had raised $1.4 billion funding from global giants  , eBay and WeChat-investor Tencent.
 
 Narayanan said the additional budget will boost Myntra’s chance of reaching its milestone of becoming profitable by March 2018 along with Jabong. com, the rival online fashion portal that Myntra acquired last year for $70 million.
 
 The latest fund enhancement for Myntra is a welcome break as ET had earlier this year reported that Flipkart is planning to slash its annual outlay for Myntra as the country’s largest   company is reallocating resources in its fight against rival  , which is closing in on it and ploughing billions of dollars into India. However, a source said Flipkart’s decision changed especially after the latest fund infusion of $1.4 billion by the marquee foreign investors.
 
 Myntra currently operates a so-called hybrid model where it buys products from vendors to sell on the platforms as well as it runs a marketplace where vendors sell directly on the site without routing it through Vector E-commerce, the largest vendor on Myntra. Now, a host of brands that sell on Myntra said the online retailer is asking them to shift from the earlier model of selling their products to Vector   to listing directly on its marketplace.
 
