By:U Sudhakar Reddy

 HYDERABAD:   ( ) officials have strongly opposed concessionaire Larsen & Toubro's move for advance monetization of the transit oriented development (TOD) properties of metro rail by bringing in intermediaries and co-developers. Through monetization, L&T wants to lease the land allotted to them by the state government to third parties for a sum after which the latter will develop them as business models.
 
 According to sources, on the presumption that L&T Metro Rail (Hyderabad) Limited (LTMRHL), a special purpose vehicle to build and operate the metro, might suffer losses for five to six years after the launch of the project, the TS government has asked the concessionaire to submit a proposal for permitting intermediaries and co developers to support the project financially through monetization. However, even as L&T wanted to submit a proposal to that effect at a recent meeting, HMRL opposed it and pointed out the risks involved for the government in granting permission for monetization.
 
 Following the opposition by HMRL, chief secretary S P Singh has directed L&T to submit a proposal “duly bringing out as to how the interests of the government will be protected in the proposed monetisation.“ In its argument opposing the monetization, HMRL said: “The financial model envisages that 45% of revenues come from property development. If the concessionaire fails or abandons the project at any time, the government will have to run the metro rail and take over the liabilities of the concessionaire as per the provisions of the Concession Agreement.And if the properties are monetised by the concessionaire in advance, there will be no revenue for the state.“
 
 HMRL said provisions of the Concession Agreement do not provide permission for bringing in intermediaries and co-developers through advance monetization of TOD rights.
 
 L&T insisted, “The monetization mechanism will be worked out in such a way that the government's interests will be protected and, that without monetization, it will be difficult for the concessionaire to execute the project beyond a point due to cost over runs.“
 
 Even as this issue remains to be resolved, L&T has asked the TRS government to support its proposal for seeking additional grant from the Union government in view of the project cost increasing significantly . The project developer also sought permission to commence operations at Panjagutta and Hi-Tec City Malls (TOD) while the Concession Agreement allows leasing of the TOD only after commencement of the rail system. L&T has already built three malls and one more is in the making. All of them are expected to generate revenue once they become operational. The sources said, in response to L&T's request, the TRS government has asked it to send a proposal to government on the revenues to be generated from TOD prior to commencement of operations and said it will take a view on it after that.
 
