NEW DELHI: One of India’s first cadaveric bone banks started in 1999 in   remains a non-starter. Officials say the bank has received just 24   donations in last 18 years.

 More so, there has been no donation in the last two years. The donated bones can be used for replacing a lost segment of bone due to cancer, infection or injury. Also, it can be used to fill up cavities or holes left by major cancer surgeries,  , chief of AIIMS Trauma   and who had started the bank, said.
 
 He said lack of knowledge coupled with misconceptions and religious sentiments are major reasons behind the failure of the programme. “Even after being set up in 1999, the first   was not until 2001,” he added. 
 
 People think that taking out bones will mutilate and disfigure the body and the limbs will dangle, the AIIMS doctor said, adding that it’s not the case.
 
 Once the bones are taken out, the body is reconstructed and the shape and structure of the limbs are restored by putting wooden sticks and stuffing it up with cotton and wool. Even knee caps are made with cotton and wool.
 
 “So, after taking out the bones, which usually takes 10 minutes, we spend the next 30 minutes on stitching up the body so that aesthetically it looks good and the dignity of the donor is maintained.
 
 “All that the relatives of the deceased will be able to see is a stitch that is visible after surgery,” Malhotra explained. The cotton wool also absorbs any fluids oozing out and the body is not left in a puddle of blood after the procedure.
 
 Bones from cadavers have to be retrieved within 12 hours. If a body is refrigerated, then the time frame extends up to 38 hours. They are then tested for HIV, hepatitis or other infection.
 
 If this procedure is followed and the bones then stored at -70 degrees Celsius, these can be preserved for around five years, Malhotra said.
 
 Thousands of cancer and trauma patients need bone transplants in India every year, while only 35% of them get these. Bones can be donated by people even when they are alive, he said. 
 
