PUNE: It was all in the family in some panels in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad where mother-son, husband-wife, brother-sister and father-in-law-daughter-in-law duo slugged it out with their respective rivals. For some, it was only khushi while for others, it was gham. 

 Amidst all the carnage in Pune, mayor Prashant Jagtap of the Nationalist   (NCP) and his mother Ratnaprabha brought some cheer to the party as both emerged victorious. Ratnaprabha burst into tears when the returning officer declared mother-son duo winners. Mayor Prashant Jagtap said, “By electing me and my mother, I feel that the voters have acknowledged the developmental work done by me in Wanowrie since 2007. We tried our level best to get all the four NCP candidates from panel number 25 elected, but we lost two seats.”
 
 Ratnaprabha Jagtap said, “In the last 10 years, NCP has undertaken developmental projects in Wanowrie since the time I was first elected as a corporator from the women’s ward in 2007. We will continue to work for the development of the area. I assure the voters that Wanowrie will become the best ward in the city in the days to come.”
 
 In Pimpri Chinchwad, NCP candidates Vitthal alias Nana Kate and his wife Sheetal Kate from panel 28 wrested victory for the party that suffered significant damage at the hands of  . Vitthal Kate said, “We have carried out developmental work in Pimple Saudagar for the past 10 years so the voters have voted for us both. We will work to solve the traffic problems in Pimple Saudagar and make the area free from plastic.”
 
 Another interesting battle had cousins pitched against each other. Navnath Jagtap who contested as an independent candidate because BJP did not give him a ticket, defeated his cousin and former NCP corporator Rajendra Jagtap who was the official BJP candidate in panel 31D. Navnath Jagtap is the brother of Chinchwad BJP MLA Laxman Jagtap who is also the president of Pimpri Chinchwad unit of BJP. It is a win-win situation for the saffron party as its rebel candidate has won here.
 
 But for the  , double disappointment was in store when its sitting corporator Rajendra (Babu) Vagaskar and his wife Vanita were defeated in Koregaon Park panel. In panel 35, Sahakarnagar Padmavati the father-in-law-daughter-in-law duo of Subhash Jagtap and Medha Bhise Jagtap of the NCP lost to BJP’s Mahesh Wable and Disha Mane.
 
 It was a mixed bag for the brother-sister duo contesting on NCP tickets from panel 30 Janata vasahat-Dattawadi. Sister Chhaya Gadade won the contest but brother Premraj bit the dust.
 
