HYDERABAD: In a dramatic escape right out of a movie, a 41year-old British national from Hyderabad, wanted in a murder case in the United  , escaped from police custody at Delhi's   station on Wednesday night. The accused escaped from the ventilator shaft in the toilet of the  .

 The fugitive, Md Ali Ege, son of Yousaf Ali, is from Aghapura. In April 2010, two men allegedly hired by Ege stabbed to death 17-year-old student, Aamir Siddiqi at his doorstep. Police said Ege's family members, including his wife and kids, are in the city. He is accused in several cases in the UK.
 
 After the murder, Ege fled from the UK and came to India. He even obtained a fake Indian passport on the fictitious name of Abdul Mallik and three Voter ID cards, driving licence and a PAN card with various names, including Abdul Mallik, Abdul Jabbar and Mo hammed  . Ege's brother Nassor Ali, also a British national, helped his brother in obtaining the fake documents. Nassor himself obtained a fake Indian passport.
 
 The UK police came to know about Ege's movement in Hyderabad and issued a   (RCN) in his name through the Interpol. The notice was forwarded to CID sleuths of the then AP police by the CBI and CID picked up Nassor Ali from his Aghapura residence in October 2011.
 
 “A case (612011) was registered against the brothers under sections 419, 420, 464, 471and 201 of the IPC and Section 14 of the Foreigners Act. Currently, trial is on and the two were lodged at the Cherlapally prison,“ Telangana CID chief Govind Singh told TOI.
 
 On Wednesday, Ege was produced before the   at the Patiala Court Complex, Delhi, in his extradition case. A five-member team of escort police, headed by an Armed Reserve SI of the State Armed Reserve Central Police Lines (SARCPL), Telangana, took Ege from Cherlapally prison on Tuesday to produce him before the Extradition Court.
 
 “The escort party produced the accused before the court on Wednesday. In the night, while they were waiting at the Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway station to take a train to Hyderabad, Ege escaped from the toilet ventilator of the Government Railway Police Station. A case was booked in this regard by the railway police station, Hazrat Nizamuddin, and we will also conduct an internal enquiry to find out if there was any laxity by the escort team,“ Hyderabad police joint commissioner M Mahendra Kumar Rathod said.
 
