NAGPUR: A 65-year-old hot tempered man   his wife 16 times with a sharp knife before committing suicide by hanging himself from a nearby tree late on Tuesday night. The crime happened in the forest area located behind a residential colony at  , MIDC. The matter came to light when local passers-by saw the  , who reached the spot for verification along with senior officers.

 The man, identified as Ramdas Sukalkar, wanted to resettle at his native place Dahegaon in Wardha with his wife Baby (55), after being separated for five years over a domestic feud. Baby, who was staying with their younger son Vitthal (33), was not ready to stay with him again. Sukalkar used to reside with his elder son Dhanraj, who identified the bodies.
 
 The two sons reside close to each other at Wanadongri. MIDC police registered an offence of murder and a case of accidental death under IPC.
 
 “Ramdas wanted to start tilling their farm in Wardha, but Baby was trying to convince him to be with sons in the city, which provoked him to commit the crime,” senior PI Sunil Mahadik told TOI. On Tuesday evening, Ramdas, a security guard at Kalpik Bar, where Dhanraj was manager, handed over the keys of the bar to a waiter before leaving the place.
 
 He went to Vitthal’s place, where Baby was sitting outside the house with other women. He asked her to come along with him on a walk to discuss some things. He was apparently carrying a sharp knife and rope as part of the plan to eliminate her for not accepting his decision, said cops. 
 
 Meanwhile, Vitthal, employed in a company, called up Dhanraj to get Baby’s whereabouts but he ignored him, and guessed they must be around in the vicinity, added Mahadik. On Wednesday morning, locals informed Dhanraj about the incident. He rushed to the spot. “Ramdas probably fought with Baby over some issues and in anger he took out a knife and indiscriminately stabbed her 16 times which left her body in a pool of blood. Around 10 meters away from the murder spot, cops found Ramdas’s body hanging from the tree,” said the PI. Cops recovered broken bangles on the ground, which indicated that Sukalkar thrashed his wife badly. The knife was recovered from the nearby bushes. 
 
 Zone I DCP Deepali Masirkar, ACP Rajat Bansod and PI visited the crime spot and the bodies were sent to GMCH for post mortem. Further probe is underway.
 
