PUNE: A 32-year-old   at a private company in Pune was duped of Rs 19,000 in a   by a   of the Indian Army. The fraud occurred sometime between September 17 and 18.

 The suspect called the woman, who hails from Delhi, and convinced her to reveal details of her bank account and e-wallets for paying home loan instalment of his flat on Salunke Vihar Road at Kondhwa on the pretext of marrying her.
 
 The woman realised that she had been cheated after she found that money had been transferred from her account and e-wallets to the bank account of one “Lt Col. J. Sinha” following which she lodged a complaint with the Hadapsar Police on Thursday.
 
 Police said the woman registered on a matrimonial site after which the suspect contacted her over phone and Whatsapp on September 17 and expressed interest in her profile.
 
 Police said the suspect impersonated as an army officer and spoke to her on five to six occasions on the same day and won her confidence. He convinced her to disclose vital details of her bank account and e-wallets Paytm and Mobikwik. He requested her to pay his housing loan instalment via net banking on the grounds that he was in Kabul and had no way to access his net banking account.
 
 Police said the girl fell into his trap and linked her account to his bank account on a request made by him. On September 18, the woman found that the suspect had fraudulently transferred Rs 6,000 from her bank account. On checking her e-wallets, the woman found that the suspect had also transferred Rs 5,000 and Rs 8,000 respectively to a bank account belonging to an army officer, suspected to be a fictitious name.
 
 The panicked woman called the prospective groom on numerous occasions for seeking an explanation but failed to reach him as his cell phone was switched off. Realising that she had been duped, she decided to register a complaint against the suspect under the IPC and Information Technology Act.
 
 The woman was not available for comment when TOI contacted her over phone. 
 
 
