A slice of cheesy pizza for me’, says the customer, pointing at a picture she is carrying along for reference. Surprisingly, this is not at her favourite eatery but at a tattoo studio, where requests of inking one’s favourite food item are common. Mumbaikars are declaring their love for food with some mouth-watering tattoos.

 
 
 Just like how literature buffs get their favourite phrases inked on their wrists, chefs are following suit. Not shy to flaunt their passion for their profession, they are going all out by getting inked with all things gourmet. Tattoo artist   goes back six years in time when a chef from a luxe city restaurant got an image of   (goddess of nourishment) tattooed on his arm. He says, “We’ve done loads of  . Those from the F&B industry have no qualms in flashing these tattoos. Most of my clients feel too strongly for their job and so get them done.”  , another tattoo artist, adds, “Many chefs do not limit their love for cooking to the dishes. I know of some people who have opted for symbols like knives or chopping boards.”
 Anjani Rawat, a pâtissier by profession, has a tiered cake tattoo on her arm. “On the bottommost tier, I’ve inked the word junoon (passion). I bake for a living and the tattoo is a way to express my love for food.”
 
 
 
 French fries is love, accept it. And marketing professional   makes no bones about it. “I absolutely enjoy eating fries. So much so that one of my friends had gifted me a fries’ necklace. But when it broke, I thought I might as well get it inked for good. Earlier, I wanted it on my heel so I could call it my ‘Achilles Heel’ but that didn’t work, so it’s below my calf, now.”
 
  
 Craig Winkler, director of admission at an international school in the city, loves his sushi so much that he decided to walk around with it at all times by getting the Japanese preparation tattooed on his arm. He says, “I love Japan and go there thrice a year. I am also a huge sushi fan and so, I wanted to get a representation of that with the help of the popular Japanese cartoon art, Kawaii.” 
 
 
 
 For anyone who thinks that inking their partner’s name, initials or even their heartbeat is cliché, there’s news. Matching food tattoos are the new rage. Tattoo artist  , says, “Many couples come to us to get something interesting done — for a few of them, food is the binding factor. It’s gradually picking up and I think it’s a great trend. You can’t stop loving food and so, it is here to stay.”
 Neha Nair, who recently got engaged, has done one such tattoo along with her fiancé. Talking about the same, she says, “My fiancé is a fitness freak and I love pizzas. Both of us wanted to get something that represented us. So, I got a slice of pepperoni pizza near my wrist while he got a dumbbell! It also represents that we are complete opposites and also balance each other; we were done with the sun and moon, each other’s names... our symbols are us.”
 
 
