HYDERABAD: Fire accidents resulting from electrical faults and short circuits have seen a 10-fold jump over the last six years. As per records available with the fire department, the number of such mishaps that stood at 2,071 in 2010-11, went up to a staggering 22,848 in 2015-16. Most of them were reported from commercial establishments in the city, including hotels and warehouses. Raising concerns over the severity of such accidents, experts from the  , (FSAI) said that the onus is on the owners of these structures who are often found using poor quality wires while laying the buildings' electrical connections.“During construction, they compromise on the kind of wire being used or the fuse box being installed. When this is done, electricity passing through the wire causes a spark and results in a fire,“ said Narayan Bhosekar, president of FSAI (Hyderabad chapter).

 “What's worse is that some people also use exposed wires that do not have any insulation,“ he added. “This is dangerous and the practice needs to be checked. People have to be more cautious about the quality of electrical fittings that they install,“ said C Lakshmi Prasad, additional director of the state fire department.
 
 Tuesday's incident, as it turns out, is the third fire accident reported from Hyderabad over the last two days. The previous fire mis haps occurred at the Forum Sujana Mall in Kukatpally and a furniture workshop at Champapet. In both the cases, the cause of the fire was traced to electrical shortcircuits, by the respective investigating teams. But no casualties were reported from either of these accident sites.
 
 Reiterating the need for better safety measures, an official of the fire department said: “People need to stop tightening their purse strings while getting the wiring done in their homes commercial buildings. Instead of viewing it as an unnecessary expense, they should make it a habit to buy quality material. This will go a long way in preventing such fire mishaps from taking place so often.“
 
 
 
 Two scribes from two Telugu news channels were allegedly beaten up by the security staff at Katriya Hotel & Towers, when they visited the premises to report on the fire mishap on Tuesday morning. According to sources, the journalists, Suresh and Tirumala,were manhandled by the security men when they entered the hotel along with   (GHMC) officials.“They (the journalists) started video-filming the interiors of the hotel that were damaged in the fire. That is when these men intervened and roughed them up. While one journalist suffered an injury on the arm, the other was attacked and pushed out of the premises,“ said another scribe, who was witness to the entire episode.The media fraternity, later, condemned the move and demanded strict action against the hotel staff for attacking journalists who were only doing their job. 
 
