LUCKNOW: A wok full of   awaits a dip of the chicken pieces before they are set on skewers and roasted on coal at the three table-length counter of  . This sight is as uncommon as the recipe, one of the many being served at ‘Mango Food festival’ organised by the UP Tourism department. 

 A week ago,   had not thought of adding mango to his famed Biryani or experimenting with murgh mango kebabs and mango seekh kebabs. On Friday, however, when Qureshi prepared his wares by gelling two of Lucknow’s most loved items —   — not only him but even the customers enjoyed the experimentation. 
 
 Qureshi, a third generation chef, said following the response to his specials at the festival, he would incorporate some of the exclusives in the menu of his outlet. “Cooking is in my blood and so is experimentation that has come from my forefathers. But before this, we had not made exclusive mango dishes in Awadhi and Mughlai cuisine. We had to try a few times to get a balance of both the subtle taste of meat and the sweetness of mango, so that neither gets overpowering. After two trials, you could say I got third-time lucky,” he said.
 
 For the Malihabadi tangdi kebab, Qureshi and his team mixed mango in the paste along with curd, butter, saffron and spices. For the tandoori mango, the fruit was the marinade with around 15 to 20 other secret spices. For the mango chicken and mutton biryani, mango was added in each layer starting from the yaqni to the saffron-induced mango paste and fine mango pieces cut to precision.
 
 On another stall, Yatish Nigam is preparing yellow mango parathas to go with kairi (raw mango) boti kebabs. The veg soya nuggest mango biryani is also ready to be served. “When I was informed by the tourism department about the festival, I had assumed there would be mango sweets but when I was asked to incorporate mango in non-vegetarian and vegetarian main course, it came as a challenge to maintain the colour of the mango and the taste of the food intact,” he said. “He experimented and served the dishes to me first and even though it sounded odd, the flavour was unique,” said his wife Ruchi. 
 
 Other counters lined with mangoes also had kaleji serve with mango chutney, mango salsa and mango bhelpuri. 
 
