THANE: Far away from the hustle bustle of the city, the street lights that gives the illusion of day and the smog filled urban air, six-year-old   lay down on the floor of the open-top tent in a village on the outskirts of Kasara and gazed at the multitude of stars he never knew were out there.

 While he was busy drawing imaginary patterns with the stars in his mind, his elder sister and parents were gazing through the telescope and observing the different constellations and   visible at the time.
 
 Be it to take a break from their hectic schedules or to learn about the multitudes of stars and constellations that flood the night skies, hordes of lake-city denizens like the Kulkarnis have been flocking for star gazing camps over the past few weeks. 
 
 With the clear skies this season enhancing the visibility of the celestial bodies, star gazing destination on the far corners of the city are gaining popularity amongst kids and adults alike.
 
 Parnika Sokhi, one such Thaneites who along with her friends went star gazing at a village called Dehene on the outskirts of Thane on Saturday night, said, “This camp was one of the most amazing camps I have been to. We not only got a break from the hectic work and busy city, but also got to learn a lot about the billions of stars that exist many light years away from us.”
 
 “We got to see constellations including the Orion, Scorpion, Leo, Taurus, Gemini, the Gateway to Heaven as well as planets including the Venus and Saturn. Luckily, we also got to see a couple of shooting stars. ,” Sokhi added.
 
 Daniel DeSouza, a Louiswadi resident who went for a star gazing camp with his family last week, said, “Being born and brought up in the city, we tend to forget the beauty and mysticism of nature. As this is this perfect weather for such trips, I took my wife and teenage sons for the camp to remind them of the world outside our busy schedules.”
 
 “During winter and the first few weeks of summer the skies are clear of any clouds giving full visibility of the stars. The climate is really pleasant, which makes the camping a delight. We have at least one expert accompanying us, who gives the group the holistic information of the stars and planets and can answer any doubts they have”, said Manoj Kalwar, founder of one such city-based group Travel Trikon which organises such camps in areas including Asangaon, Kasara and so on.
 
 
