NAGPUR: Several drought-hit villages of Yavatmal district don’t fall in the Jalyukta Shivar Abhiyaan’s priority list. Even before the CM’s flagship project came into being in December 2014, NGOs had started making use of traditional irrigation   and engineering concepts. These have drastically changed the scenario in some villages, allowing   to take more than one crop, which was hitherto impossible in the rain-fed area.

 In villages with   bodies, such as Jamni in Jhari taluka, the doh model has been implemented. A doh traditionally means a deep trench inside a water body, which is much deeper than the bed area of the water body. “Borrowing from this idea, the doh model comprises digging 3 meters of land near a water body, about 2-3 meters below ground level, to allow groundwater to surface. A gap of 25 metres is left between these dug tanks,” explains chief engineer for Dilasa Foundation Amol Sakharkar.
 
 Extolling the advantages of the model, Sitaram Yashwant Kolhe, a farmer in Jamni village, said he has for the first time attempted to sow brinjal along with tur, cotton and jowar. “Making use of the model, I have installed a pump and pipeline to my farm,” he says, adding that it has helped him earn more money.
 
 Taking advantage of the uneven landscape in villages, another   model, the ‘phad model’, has also been implemented in this belt. This model builds a check dam on high ground. It is then connected with pipes running to the lowlands, making use of gravity and avoiding need of electricity.
 
 The farmers in Dhangarwadi, 30km from Kalamb, used to rely on cash crops such as soyabean, tur and cotton. Making use of groundwater resources, the first phad was built in 2006, and another, a bigger one, in 2007. There is now an assurance with regard to the crop, enabling farmers to go for a second or third round of crops, like onion. “We used to buy onions from outside, but now, the matadors take onions from our farms to the market. It has helped me pay off Rs70,000 debt, and many other farmers like me are now opting for a third crop as well,” said sarpanch Krushna Ram Ahire. There are five phads in the village.
 
 Apart from these two models, recharge pits work like wells with a depth of about 10 feet, albeit they are dug in low lands, where the rain water flowing from higher ground can be collected. “Moreover, it also stores water in case of unseasonal rain. It maintains the moisture in the soil and recharges groundwater table,” says Gangadhar Atram, a field worker of Dilasa Foundation. Rajni village has about 80 recharge pits and a public doh.
 
 As a result of these efforts, according to estimates provided by Dilasa, 274 phads have been constructed across Yavatmal, Wardha, Gadchiroli, Jalna, Nanded and Chandrapur districts. About 300 doh models can be found in the 10 districts, having utilized 600km of big and small streams of water.
 
 “The basic difference in Jalyukta Shivar works and the models created by us is the approach and cost difference. We make use of water resources from the emerging point to the converging point. Also, the CM’s project makes check dams using cement, which is double the investment required for us to build the same using natural land,” explains Mansoor Khorasi, programme director of Dilasa.
 
 Dileep Lachma Atram, 28, this year cultivated a neglected 3 acre field belonging to another farmer in Jamni village, while working on the 4 acre belonging to his father. “I have to pay Rs6,000 rent to the owner, but I’m optimistic of getting a profit owing to the water, even after investing Rs40,000 in the cultivation,” he says.
 
 
