BENGALURU: A burglar pulled off a gold   at a   in Cottonpet in central Bengaluru by taking up a room above the shop and drilling a hole through the ceiling. The robbery was discovered when the owner, Himmat Prakash, opened the shop on Sunday. The safe was broken and more around three kilograms of gold and silver ornaments were missing.

 Prakash discovered the hole in the ceiling and went to  , which had rooms on the first floor, right above the shop. He was told that the guest, who had given his name as Mohammed Hussain, had checked out the previous evening. Police were summoned but there were very few fingerprints to be lifted. The staff at the lodge told police that Hussain had been staying in room no. 102 since June 19. The voter ID copy provided by Hussain was found to be fake, police sources said.
 
 Hussain had, it turned out, visited the jewellery shop downstairs frequently in the past few days, pretending to be a buyer. Once he was familiar with the shop’s timings and Prakash’s movements, he got down to drilling a hole in the floor. Occupants at the lodge in the three-storey building said they had heard grating sounds over the past 10 days and complained to the staff who put it down to construction work under way in the neighbourhood. Police suspect the drilling went unheard in the noise of traffic on Cottonpet Main Road. With a drilling machine, Hussain managed to make a 1.5-foot wide hole through the concrete floor that was 1.5ft thick. 
 
 “The hole was concealed with a doormat,” a police source said. Since the room was cleaned only once in two days, he may have succeeded in covering up his job, they said. However, police have not ruled out the possibility of inside help to Hussain. They are investigating how the lodge staff did not discover the hole even after Hussain checked out.
 
 Once he had drilled the hole, Hussain waited for Saturday, when the shop would be shut. This Saturday, though, Prakash came to the shop in the morning on some work and stayed till 11am. Once he left, Hussain had the rest of the day to pull off the heist. He is believed to have entered the shop soon after. He then broke the locker, took the gold and silver ornaments and climbed back. He did not take any big silverware from the showcase, though. At 5.30pm, he checked out, telling lodge staff that he was returning to his hometown. 
 
 “The culprit was staying in the room for more than three weeks. We are holding back his identity details for investigation. We will arrest him soon,” said M N Anuchet, DCP, West. The Cottonpet police is investigating how Hussain managed to get a fake voter ID card and if he had any accomplices.
 
 Fond of biriyani 
 
 Lodge staff said Hussain mostly stayed in the room during day and went out in the evening. “He reslished mutton biryani. He asked us where the best biryani was available,” a lodge employee said. Police are looking into whether Hussain had any helpers at the lodge or elsewhere. 
 
 
