KOLKATA: Two months ago, doctors at   (IOP) at IPGMER faced a strange problem — Abhro   (name changed) was brought in suffering from a mental   they couldn’t diagnose right away. The 48-year-old would feel like he was surrounded by lunatics every time he left home and had confined himself to his room for months. Visits to two other hospitals had yielded no results. But IOP doctors put him on a combination of drugs and psychotherapy, which worked miracles.

 Doctors at IOP diagnosed that Mukherjee was suffering from a mix of delusional disorder, schizophrenia and fear psychosis — something that doesn’t fit into he definition of any established mental disorder. “This is the first mental disorder of this kind that I have come across in my career spanning almost 25 years,” said Dr  , IOP director.
 
 The illness was so severe that Mukherjee could not sleep fearing that lunatics were being sent to his house by someone. He would walk around his room to be sure that he was alone. He lost weight and developed other health problems. “I knew his behaviour was abnormal, but I would go out with him to help him tackle the lunatics. A few steps out and he would start shrieking that he was surrounded. He would rush back in and sob,” his wife recalled.
 
 After much convincing, Mukherjee agreed to see a doctor — first at a private hospital in Howrah and then at a government hospital. But his problem turned worse. Some relatives even suggested seeing a shaman. Finally, the family decided to take him to National Institute of   and Neurosciences. But a relative suggested he visit Saha. Within two weeks, Mukherjee started improving. 
 
 Now back at his Kancharapara home, Mukherjee said: “The illness did a lot of harm to me, my career and my family in the past year. I will not let it ruin me any more... Dr Pradip Saha is a Godsend.” 
 
 Mukherjee, who had lost his job due to the illness, has started helping a friend in his business unit. Doctors have advised him to continue the medication for two years and report for regular check-ups. 
 
 
