PATNA: The state   on Sunday maintained that it is with CM   in his fight against corruption and his party, the JD(U), should resolve its differences with the RJD of Lalu Prasad on the issue of deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for the final push to their mutual fight to the climactic ‘aar-paar (that leaves nothing to doubt)’ situation.

 Tejashwi is one of the eight persons, including his parents Lalu and Rabri Devi, who figures in the FIR lodged by the   on July 5 in the railway hotels for land deal when the RJD chief was the railway minister in the Congress-led UPA-1 government at the Centre.
 
 The CBI also conducted raids on 12 premises of Lalu and others, including at Patna, in connection with the case on July 7. While Nitish is yet to demand resignation from Tejashwi, the JD(U) on July 10 issued a statement asking the deputy CM to give point-by-point clarification on the charges levelled by the CBI to “clear public mind”.
 
 Explaining the position of the BJP on the issue of Tejashwi, former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) said on Sunday, “The JD(U) should push itself to an ‘aar-paar’ fight with the RJD. The BJP will be on the side of CM Nitish, as he has supported the BJP (read the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre of PM Narendra Modi) on several issues.”
 
 Earlier also, talking to media persons, SuMo said the BJP was not in favour of the fall of government as the MLAs, cutting across party lines, were not in favour of going to the polls. On July 10, state BJP president Nityanand Rai had said that the BJP would give outside support to Nitish government if he parted ways with the RJD. 
 
 On Sunday, SuMo also advised Tejashwi to “come out of the shadow of his father Lalu” as former UP CM   had moved out of the umbrella of his father Mulayam Singh Yadav. Curiously, among several factors responsible for Akhilesh taking that crucially and critical decision included Mulayam’s proximity to Amar Singh, his opposition to Akhilesh’s line of alliance with the  , and alleged closeness of both Mulayam and Amar to the BJP — all with regard to the UP assembly election held early this year.
 
 As for the reason that Tejashwi should put forward, SuMo said his “declaration” should be that it was Lalu who had asked him to put his “signatures on papers” of several companies in a situation when he was ‘naasamajh (immature)’. “Actually, it is the father who put him in the quagmire of corruption,” SuMo said.
 
 He added that Tejashwi, if “he has to do long politics,” should also tender his resignation on his own and return to active politics “till absolved of all the charges,” as former JD(U) national president Sharad Yadav had done after his name figured in the diary related to the “Jain hawala case.” 
 
 
