NAGPUR: The   has received a massive response for its 64 posts of teachers, including that of a director (non-vocational), which were advertised recently. Over 2,000 sent in their applications. 

 Even as the government claimed to have granted clearance to fill up 50% posts, these 64 are much below that level, as the total vacancies in NU’s 40 departments and three conducted colleges are about 222. These figures are revealed by NU in reply to an   query.
 
 Citing these RTI figures, TOI on May 4, reported about how these large-scale vacancies, including that of 151 non-teaching posts, were adversely affecting NU’s functioning, particularly in the exam section, which directly affects the students. 
 
 Moreover, many employees have attained the age of superannuation in all these years. Few were either offered extension or recruited on the same position by NU administration on a temporary basis to tide over the crisis.
 
 “We’ve constituted a panel, which would scrutinize all these applications to check eligibility of the aspirants. It would take about a month or two as there are many applications,” registrar Puran Meshram told TOI.
 
 He added that next step would be constitution of interview panels for four different faculties, as per the new ‘Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016’. Headed by the vice chancellor SP Kane, each panel would have two chancellor’s nominees, along with registrar, director of higher education or nominee, along with members from the NU’s academic and management councils.
 
 NU officials predicted that the entire process would take a minimum of three to four months before actual appointments could be made. The 64 posts included that of professor, associate professor, assistant professor.
 
 They wondered that despite keeping stringent conditions like possessing PhD qualification with minimum 10 publications and good experience, they received such a large number of applicants. For some posts of lecturers in pharmacy department, NET clearance has been made mandatory along with master’s degree and 55% marks.
 
 “We’ve received applications from other states as well. It proves that a large number of PhD or NET/SET holders are either unemployed or working in some lesser known colleges on contractual basis, where they are often exploited,” officials told TOI.
 
 In its reply to RTI query, NU informed that it had 465 sanctioned teaching posts of which 243 were filled up and 222 vacant. Last recruitment took place in 2013, during tenure of then VC   when 72 posts were filled up, else the situation would have been worst. Among the sufferers were once-prestigious Laxminarayan Institute of Technology (LIT), which couldn’t apply for autonomy, due to severe shortage of teaching and non-teaching staff.
 
 Officials apprehended that there was no guarantee that those posts would be filled up as there was stiff opposition to NU’s move to release advertisement on last day of old ‘Maharashtra Universities Act, 1994’ and many have even complained to the government and chancellor. They predicted that some may approach the judiciary to stall the process. 
 
 NU’s new posts
 
 Total | 63
 
 Professor | 7
 
 Asso Professor | 17
 
 Asst Professor | 38
 
 Director (Non-Voc) | 1
 
