KOLKATA: Narendra Modi’s demonetisation has hammered the   in Mamata Banerjee’s backyard with   in Kolkata taking a nosedive. Reeling under the double impact of plunging sentiments and money being sucked out of the economy, developers hastily pulled projects back from the brink of launch and shoved them on the back burner. 

 A research on the performance of the sector in July-December 2016 by international consultants Knight Frank has nailed demonetisation for the industry taking a punch. In Kolkata, 7,308 apartments were sold in July-December 2016, a 20% drop against the same period previous year, when 9,170 units were sold. 
 
 It has been a roller-coaster ride for sales in the city for several years now, showing a spike in the first half and a dip in the second. In 2016, though, sales have slid below the 4,000 units mark for two consecutive quarters. From 5,784 units sold in April-June 2015, sales crashed to 3,413 units in October-December 2016.
 
 “Demonetisation has dealt a body blow to the   sector. The notional revenue loss to the industry from lower sales is Rs 500 crore while the state government incurred a notional loss of Rs 30 crore. The loss can be recovered if the impact of demonetisation turns out to be positive in the medium- and long-term by fuelling growth in the industry,” said Knight Frank chief economist and national director Samantak Das.
 
 Of the flats sold, 70% were in Rajarhat and Garia-Narendrapur-Baruipur belt in the south. 
 
 Prior to Modi’s bolt-from-the-blue announcement on November 8, the industry was on track to register a growth. When Knight Frank had presented the January-June 2016 performance in July with sales down 10% in Kolkata, the firm had predicted higher sales in the second half to end the year at 4% degrowth against 2015. Though the slide was stemmed in July-October, the sales slide in November-December saw the industry in Kolkata ending the year with 20% degrowth.
 
 So why did sales drop? Market analysts believe a combination of factors came into play. Most buyers were preoccupied in settling down their own financial matters and property purchase was pushed down the priority list. With money being deposited in banks, prospective buyers also felt banks would cut home loan lending rates and it was worth the wait. There are also expectations of tax incentives in the Budget. Then there’s the RERA factor. With a real estate regulator scheduled to be appointed by March 2017, many felt it was worth waiting for transactions to become more fair and transparent. 
 
 With buyers disappearing from the market and developers reeling under the demonetisation blow, new launches have simply disappeared from the market. Against 9,739 units launched in July-September 2014, the number of new units launched in October-December 2016 fell by two-thirds to 3,506 units.
 
 Consequently, unsold inventory in Kolkata was at pegged at 37,459 units in January 2017, up from 34,426 units in July 2016. That though is not what bothers developers as most of it is under construction and is expected to be sold by the time work gets over in three years. Nandu Belani, president of the Bengal chapter of Credai, the forum of major builders in Kolkata and rest of the state, says the average age of stock in Kolkata at a shade over two years is way better than other Indian metros.
 
 However, developers are offering various sops, including discounts and subvention schemes to woo customers and reduce the inventory. In Rarjarhat-Madhyamgram belt as well as south of Narendrapur-Baruipur stretch, the effective price of flats has dipped from Rs 35-40 lakh to Rs 30-35 lakh. Officially though, Credai maintains price in Kolkata has remained stable.
 
 What does worry them is the uncertainty of what happens next. Such is the scene that Knight Frank has not issued a forecast. Das is sure sales will continue to take a hit in January-March 2017 but a recovery thereafter will depend on multiple factors. 
 
 Credai Bengal past president Sushil Mohta is optimistic of a turnaround. He expects the sales slide to be arrested by mid-2017 and a spurt in demand for low-income group housing to actually turn the graph around to growth by this time next year. 
 
 “PM’s announcements of huge discounts on home loan interest will lead to the emergence of a new segment of blue-collared buyers. We are all gearing up to meet the demand for flats that fit the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna scheme,” he said, adding that flats in other segments would also get a boost if interest rates dropped below 8% and finance minister Arun Jaitley announced sops in Budget.
 
 
