PANAJI:   on Wednesday arrested the four family members of  , who was rescued from a confined space in   on Tuesday, where she was forced to live in inhumane conditions. Police sources said that they are yet to ascertain the time period for which the   was kept locked in the room. 

 PI Reema Naik said that the victim was sent for a medical examination at the institute of psychiatry and human behaviour (IPHB), Bambolim, since the family members had alleged that she is “mentally unstable”.
 
 “The medical report states that she is psychologically fit to be placed in a shelter home,” Naik said, adding that further medical examinations will be conducted on the victim. Police said they are yet to contact the victim’s husband. 
 
 Sharing details about the action taken, Naik said that they have arrested Sunita’s two brothers and their wives on behalf of the state, and that Sunita, who is in her late 40s, is being currently accommodated at a shelter home. 
 
 “We were contacted by the NGO Bailancho Saad yesterday at around 3:30pm and acted swiftly. We found the victim living in a small room in unhygienic conditions. We have arrested Mohandas Verlekar, Amita Verlekar, Ravindra Verlekar and Anita Verlekar in the case,” Naika said. 
 
 The last official data of Sunita being out is a 2008 medical report that states that she was diagnosed with schizophrenia, police sources said. 
 
 Sharing details about the rescue, Sabina Martins of Bailancho Saad said that they received information about the victim through an email from the Candolim citizens group. 
 
 “They wanted to keep their identity a secret and contacted me through mail. We went with the police and found the door of the room locked. We asked one of the brothers to open the door, but he said he doesn’t have the keys for the lock. The door was then opened by the police team. The room was filled with a strong stench of urine and human waste. The room had a small window and food was given to the victim through a small space above the door,” Martins said, adding that Sunita has studied till Class XII. 
 
 Further investigation is on.
 
