PUNE: Foreign tourists will be able to get e-tourist visa on arrival at the city airport beginning April 1.
This facility will benefit tourists from as many as 130 countries, who will be able to get visa on arrival provided they have applied for it online four days prior to their travel.
 
 “The e-visa facility received a go-ahead during the recent meeting of the airport advisory committee. All I can say right now is that we are ready and waiting for some immigration formalities to be completed,“ Pune Airport director Ajay Kumar told TOI.
 
 “The counters have come up in the airport already,“ an airport official said on Monday. Sources in the   (FRRO) in Mumbai said that the equipment needed in connection with the service had been handed over to the   officials in Pune.
 
 “The system is all to be operational and the infrastructure work is almost done. Our officers will be at the Pune airport for the purpose. However, all matters regarding visa will be mainly handled by the Mini stry of Home Affairs in Delhi,“ the official said.
 
 However, only a few international flights operate to and from Pune. They include two to Dubai (Air India and SpiceJet), one to   ( ) and one to Frankfurt (Lufthansa).
 
 But Anant Sardeshmukh, director general of the Marhatta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), felt that thought international flights are fewer but a few from places such as Frankfurt witness heavy traffic. “Also, with airlines like Jet having a code sharing agreement with Etihad, the e-visa facility will surely help in the long term as well at present. People will definitely look forward to it as they can come directly to Pune and not through airports like Delhi, which offers the same facility,“ Sardeshmukh said.
 
 The tour and travel operators were, however, not very upbeat about the facility.
 
 “Pune attracts a large number of foreign corporates as the city is a IT hub and the neighbouring areas are manufacturing hubs. Tourists who come to Pune mostly travel to the Osho Ashram. However, when it comes to e-visa facility, this will not make much of a difference as the number of international flights that land in Pune is very limited. It is more beneficial for metro airports such as Mumbai and Delhi,“ Karan Anand, head of relationships at Cox & Kings Limited, told TOI.
 
