AURANGABAD: The city police on Wednesday raided a local   corporator's residence where the blank answersheets of a civil engineering exam paper held a day earlier were being filled with answers taken from textbooks and other material. 

 Thirty-three people, including 27 second-year students of the Sai Institute of Engineering and Technology and teachers, were arrested from corporator Sitaram Sure's house. Sure and his son, Kiran, who is pursuing a civil engineering course from the institute, were also arrested.
 
 Among the others arrested were institute director Gangadhar Mundhe, his brother and college trustee Mangesh, college principal Santosh Deshmukh and lecturers Amit Kamble and Vijay Andhale.
 
 The crime branch, on receiving a tip-off, raided Sure's residence early on Wednesday morning. Police said the students were writing the answers for a paper, "Building Construction and Design", for which they had appeared at the institute on Tuesday.
 
 Sleuths seized 23 answersheets from the students, a question paper, another set of 25 answersheets from Andhale, a centre report, Rs 32,000 in cash and 31 mobile phones. They also seized 23 drawing sheets from one of the students.
 
 Aurangabad police commissioner   told TOI, "The scam is huge and many people holding key posts in the education sector will be exposed in this case."
 
 Primary investigations revealed that the students, in connivance with institute staff, had deliberately left their answersheets blank while giving the exam on Tuesday. They later gathered at Sure's house and began writing the answersheets after midnight.
 
 Inspector Suresh Wankhede, in charge of crime branch, said the suspects will be produced in court on Thursday. They have been booked under IPC Sections 420 (cheating and dishonesty), 107, 109 & 114 (abetment), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention). They also face charges under the Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University, Board and other Specified Examinations Act, 1982.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police Deepali Ghate told TOI, "The management was allegedly charging Rs 5,000 for filling each paper after the exam. The college principal went about this illegal business by taking advantage of the delay on the part of the university's exam department in collecting the answersheets from the college."
 
 Meanwhile, senior police officers were quite forthcoming in mentioning the number of phone calls they had received from influential people since Wednesday morning to hush up the matter. "Though nobody has approached me, there are inputs that some politicians made such requests to lower rank officers," Yadav said.
 
