A 45-year-old history sheeter was killed in an alleged   with police in Ramanathapuram late on Thursday night while he was being chased in connection with a robbery. The deceased, B Govindan, was a dalit, and quite well-known in the locality. The incident created tension in Thondi and its surrounding areas in the backdrop of Ambedkar birth anniversary celebrations on Friday. 

 Police claim they were forced to open fire as the victim attacked the team which was on his heels. Two police personnel including a sub-inspector sustained cut injuries in the incident and are undergoing treatment in a government hospital. A resident of Usilankottai colony near Thondi, Govindan was allegedly involved in several criminal cases including one murder, three attempt to murder and robbery cases. Police said they opened one round of fire and the bullet hit him on the chest critically injuring him. He was rushed to the Thiruvadanai government hospital where he died a few minutes later. The body was shifted to Ramanathapuram district headquarter hospital for post-mortem. 
 
 A higher police official said that a special team has been looking for Govindan in connection with a robbery incident. He had stolen Rs 9 lakh cash from a businessman named Kasinathan. It was the latter’s driver Dhilip Dhulkaranai who helped the special team corner Govindan. According to the plan, the driver led Govindan to Mela Arumbanur where he came in his car. However, on sensing police presence, he raced away. The police team which was in civil dress chased his car. He drove to Saverier Nagar near Thiruvadanai but soon found himself at the dead end of a road. 
 
 As the policemen approached him, he took out a sickle and attacked them, the official said. SI Thangamuniasamy and grade one constable Soundarapandian sustained injuries in the shoulder and forearm. Govindan tried to enter a church, but he was shot down a few metres in front of it. Thondi police which registered a case said the incident took place around 10.45 pm. Security in the region was beefed up in view of Ambedkar jayanti celebrations. 
 
 As per rules, a separate magisterial inquiry would be carried out into the incident. The deceased is survived by his wife and three unmarried daughters two of whom are college-going. Ramanathapuram superintendent of police N Manivannan and deputy inspector general of police, Ramanathapuram range Kapil Saratkar visited the spot and conducted inquiries. 
 
 
