Last week, a female driver was allegedly abused and threatened with murder by a biker in front of the Bharat Petroleum Station in Sector 44. According to reports, the woman, a school teacher, was turning towards the petrol station, when a biker, speeding from the wrong side, almost hit her car. The biker stopped and started abusing her and also threatened to harm her physically. He then threw a big rock at her car, damaging the roof. 

  Gurgaon's   say that altercations with male riders and drivers is quite common for them. They are often abused, threatened, made of fun of and told that 'they are not meant to be on the road'. "This case highlights how women drivers are treated in Gurgaon. Because we follow traffic rules and don’t drive rashly, we are called bad drivers, and are often abused by random men," says Sarita Sharma, a resident of Sector 5. Female drivers tell us that they often have to hear comments like, "Gaadi chalani nahin aati par road pe aa gayi hain," "Traffic ruka hai toh koi aurat hi gaadi chala rahi hogi." Some male drivers also try to intimidate them with bumper-to-bumper driving. However, female drivers tell us that they don’t usually engage when these things happen or say sorry even when they are not at fault. "Who wants to get into an argument in a city where you know nobody is going to come and help you," they say. 
 
  
  Gurgaon resident Vandana Arora shows GT how frustrating driving on Gurgaon’s roads can be for women (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 Puja Mishra, a resident of Sector 50, says that she has often encountered such situations. "Last month, I was driving out to meet a client. The traffic was really bad near Amity School, and the cars weren’t moving at all. Since the vehicles were all bumper-to-bumper, I was driving very carefully. There was a man on a bike behind me who was not getting space to overtake me. When we stopped at a red light, he came to my car, asked me to roll down the window and asked, 'You don’t know how to drive?'"
 
  Puja adds, "The man accused me of not giving him way to cross the red light and said, 'Why do women come on the road when they do not know how to drive?' I just kept my cool, rolled up my window and ignored him. These people can get really abusive at times, and when you are a lone woman driving, you do not want to be stuck alone on the road with them. If two men get into an argument, they will abuse each other and everything will be fine. But if a woman says anything to them, then these men get offended."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Shivani Rao, a resident of Saraswati Vihar, says, "These incidents are very common. I have learnt that it is better to say sorry and move on instead of having an argument. One incident happened when I was returning from work and taking a turn towards my home near Sahara Mall. I was turning at a normal speed, when a car came from the other side at full speed and suddenly stopped near my car. As soon as the people in that car saw that it was a woman driving, they started abusing. I just said sorry and left. Men have this ego that 'How can she overtake me?' or 'How can she make me wait?' Almost every day, I hear comments like 'women can't drive', 'they are the worst drivers', 'they take sudden turns'. If a car is parked diagonally, people assume that it must have been a woman driver."
 
  
 While some women think it is better to not engage, Sarita Sharma, a resident of Sector 5, says that she firmly tells the other person if it was his/her mistake. She recounts, "This happened last month near Hero  , when I was driving to office. A street vendor hit my car with his thela, so I had to brake, causing a guy on a scooty behind me to hit my car. Instead of saying sorry to me, he started yelling, 'Madam, aapko gaadi chalani nahi aati? Road pe kyun aati hain yeh auratein jab gaadi chalani nahin aati?' I told him that he should have maintained a distance between his scooty and my car. But he kept blaming me. In my opinion, we are treated like this because we follow rules and do not exceed the speed limit."
 
  
  
 
  
  
 Kritika Kushwaha, a resident of DLF Phase 3, says that it's common for male drivers to take women drivers lightly. "I was driving on a highway when a male driver started racing me. He stopped his car right in front of mine, and my car bumped into his car, and the bike behind me also hit my car. When I got out to see what had happened, everyone on the road, including these two men, started laughing. I felt so embarrassed. If I were a man, they wouldn’t have acted this way. When men get into a fight on the road, they abuse each other and leave. But if a woman says anything to a man, they start commenting on her driving skills and how she ‘doesn’t know anything about traffic rules'," she says. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Meghna Daga, who lives in Hauz Khas and works in Gurgaon, drives down to her office in   every day. She has many similar experiences to share. "Last week, when I was crossing Ambience Mall, two men on a bike stopped and asked me, 'Why were you driving like that?' When I asked how I was driving, they said, 'Aap gaadi lehra ke chala rahin thi, chalani nahin aati kya?' Then they started abusing me. When I abused them back, they said, 'Aapko sharam nahi aati? Ek toh galat gaadi chala rahi ho aur upar se gali de rahi ho?' But these things can get pretty serious in Gurgaon. Everyone is powerful here and people can go to any extent to show their power. So it is better to ignore these people," she says. 
 
 
 
 
