LUCKNOW/NEW DELHI: The UP capital's aerial connection with the rest of the country snapped on Saturday in peak election season following an instrument landing system (ILS) failure at the   here.

 The VHF omnidirectional range (VOR), a crucial part of ILS used by incoming aircraft, failed at 4.30 pm, throwing the airport out of bounds for all arrivals. In all, 20 flights were cancelled for the day .
 
 Airlines suspended all flights to and from Lucknow, leaving hundreds of passengers stranded.
 
 New electronic data cards which would be fitted into the radar were dispatched from Kanpur and Delhi by evening. Operations at the airport, which handles 90 commercial flights daily and is directly connected to Dubai, Singapore and Bangkok, were expected to resume only by Sunday afternoon, an airport official said in the evening.
 
 The airport director later claimed the glitch was fixed at 12.30am on Sunday .It was up to the airlines to take a call on resumption of operations, he said. Lucknow handles 90 schedule commercial flights daily -45 arrivals and 45 departures -apart from charter operations, the number of which in this poll season are running into double digits a day .
 
 Directorate General of Civil Aviation chief B S Bhullar is learned to be supervising the repair operation along with ATC chief A K Dutta.
 
 On Saturday , 70 scheduled flights had operated at the airport before the radar glitch. The Airports Authority of India immediately asked other airports and airlines to cancel all flights to Lucknow. Flyers in other cities who had boarded Lucknow-bound flights were asked to alight. “Five aircraft were parked at the airport which had to fly out.There was no plane slated to land at that time and therefore no diversions took place.As VOR is not needed for departures, the five planes could take off even after this snag,“   director P K Srivastava said.
 
 “Lucknow is a big airport that handles 90 schedule commercial flights daily . We need to get the airport operational at the earliest. We are aiming for flight resumption from Sunday morning itself.However, given the dense fog it may take some time for the equipment sent from Delhi and Kanpur to reach us,“ said a senior official. Without using ILS, aircraft cannot touch down unless the visibility is over five km.
 
 
