KOLKATA: Captains of industry from Bengal are looking forward to February 8, the   night. For the fifth time, the Association of Corporate Advisers & Executives, Kolkata, and The   will celebrate the success of eminent organisations and individuals for their outstanding contribution to society. 

 The objective is to felicitate eminent organizations and individuals in Bengal every year for their outstanding contribution and to recognize and celebrate private initiatives towards a larger goal. State commerce and industries minister Amit Mitra will be the guest of honour for the ceremony this year. Deloitte is the knowledge partner for this event. 
 
 “It inspires many more to seriously reconsider their policies towards societal good. Create ‘Corporate Leaders’ from Bengal, who shall light the way and set the benchmark for the nation as a whole,” an organiser of the annual award ceremony said. 
 
 The categories for participation for this year’s award are: best financial performance, fastest-growing company, highest job creator, innovation in business, best CSR idea, lifetime award for a leading industrialist and the visionary award. Last year, R S Agarwal and R S Goenka — the founder duo of Emami group — got the lifetime achievement award. In 2015, B M Khaitan received the lifetime achievement award from finance and industries minister Amit Mitra. In 2014, B K Birla received the lifetime achievement award, while R P Goenka bagged it in the first edition. The Indian visionary business award category was initiated in 2015 and was awarded to ITC chairman Y C Deveshwar. Last year, it was conferred on P R S Oberoi, the chairman of EIH Limited.
 
 This time, as many as 288 companies participated in various categories. In the best financial performance category, a maximum number of 288 nominations were received, followed by fastest-growing company and highest job creator categories. The main jury members are:   co-founder and current chairman of Manipal Global Education T V Mohandas Pai, Deloitte chairman P Ramesh, Ashok Banerjee of IIM Calcutta and ET Kolkata resident editor Javed Sayed. The sponsors at the award night are: AKA Logistics, Amit Metaliks Ltd, Anmol Biscuits, Bengal Energy, Emami, Himadri Speciality Chemical, Mani Group, Rashmi Metaliks, Senrysa Technologies, Shyam Steel, SKM Group. The event will be managed by Cherry Tree. 
 
 The Association of Corporate Advisers & Executives, one of the principal organisers, was formed as a society in 1960 by 30 founder members with the main objective of providing a common forum for persons engaged in or interested in corporate laws, taxation, audit, accounts and the likes. Its headcount has crossed 1,000 now. 
 
