PANAJI: If the state government gives its approval, the biennial land, naval and internal security exhibition, also called   India 2018 could, once again, be held in Goa. The ministry of defence has asked the state government for 200 acres of land along Goa’s coastal belt to set up a permanent venue for Defexpo and Aero India.

 In a letter written to Goa chief secretary Dharmendra Sharma, the ministry of defence has offered to develop a modern exhibition-cum-convention centre on the land, which can benefit Goa’s economy. Goa has not taken a decision and is yet to reply to the letter. 
 
 “The government of Goa may consider allotment of about 200 acres of land on the coastline so that a permanent venue to conduct Defexpo can be set up. As Defexpo 2018 is scheduled in February 2018 and time available is very short, an early consideration in the matter would be appreciated,” said defence secretary Ashok Kumar Gupta.
 
 The Union ministry has also indicated that it is keen on moving the biennial   and aviation exhibition held at the Yelahanka Air Force Station, Bengaluru, to Goa.
 
 Gupta has also pointed out that a committee had been set up by the ministry of defence in 2012 to identify alternative venues for Aero India. “The committee, after going through all the merits and demerits, recommended Goa as a suitable venue for future defence shows. Goa, being a popular tourist destination, has an added advantage for hosting such shows,” Gupta said.
 
 Defexpo India 2016 was held in Goa and not at Pragati Maidan, Delhi, where the first eight editions of the event were held. Due to planned renovation at Pragati Maidan, the ministry of defence had decided to hold the defence ministry’s flagship trade show in Goa.
 
 “We have received the defence ministry’s request and it is being processed. The state government has not responded to the request. The file has been marked to the chief minister,” a senior state government official said.
 
 India remains the world’s biggest importer of defence equipment and Defexpo 2018 will provide another opportunity for vendors to showcase their equipment for decision-makers.
 
 “Setting up dedicated infrastructure in Goa will allow relatively free movement of heavy equipment compared to Delhi. Goa gives us the chance to organize, as we did for the first time in Defexpo India 2016, a live demonstration area, where tactical settings can be staged, such as helicopter-mounted assaults by special forces soldiers and battle tanks,” a defence ministry official said.
 
 
