DIBRUGARH: The  , the  , got off to a   here on Friday. Thousands converged on the   at   to celebrate the indomitable spirit of the   and the state's rich and diverse heritage. 

 The five-day open-air festival was declared open by PHE minister Rihan Daimari from a specially designed boat-shaped stage. Terming the Brahmaputra as the lifeline of Assam, which has nurtured several civilizations on its banks for thousands of years, Daimari said the mega cultural festival will help in rejuvenating the Brahmaputra civilization and foster harmony among people of the state who share an emotional bond with the river. 
 
 The minister added that the state government will leave no stone unturned to project the Brahmaputra as an attractive international tourist destination.
 
 Dibrugarh DC Laya Madduri, in her welcome address, spoke about the rich and eventful history of Dibrugarh town situated right on the banks of the Brahmaputra. She said Dibrugarh, which is known as the 'tea city of India', had many firsts like the first oil well in India and the first tea garden at Chabua. "The first railway service in the northeast started from Dibrugarh and the first medical college in the northeast started with Dr John Berry White Medical School in 1900," she added.
 
 On the first day, a heritage Dibrugarh exhibition, handloom and handicraft exhibition and a Dr Bhupen Hazarika gallery was inagurated at the festival site. The cultural festival, which is being celebrated with 'Heritage Dibrugarh' as its theme, will feature scintillating cultural performances, ethnic cuisine, traditional sports, water sports, kite flying, hot air balloon ride, lantern flying, air show, guided tours, elephant ride, magic show, aero modelling, cultural programmes, business meets, photography workshop and seminars. Thang Ta and Raas Leela from Manipur, Hojaguri dance from Tripura, ankia naat and gayan bayan from Assam and traditional dance by various ethnic communities are some of the other attractions lined up for the event.
 
 Former Asom Sahitya Sabha president and Dibrugarh resident Nagen Saikia was appointed the brand ambassador of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan Dibrugarh district on the inaugural day of the festival. The DC handed over the badge and shawl of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan to the noted litterateur. A souvenir was released by local MLA Prasanta Phukan. 
 
 
