INDORE: Travellers on a passenger train coming from   Fort had a narrow escape on Wednesday after a minor crack was detected on a railway track near   station between Mandsaur and Jawra.

 The crack was noticed by a person around 10.30am as the train was travelling at 100 kilometres per hour. He immediately signaled the train driver to stop the train.
 
 “Both personnel reacted promptly and stopped the train before it could pass over the crack,” a spokesperson of western railways said.
 
 The person who had first noticed the crack immediately alerted the control room and a team was sent to the spot. Officials said the crack was around half an inch wide. Officials said the crack was repaired.
 
 “The train was delayed by 40 minutes. No other train was delayed,” railways spokesperson said.
 
 Authorities said the crack might have occurred due to it quickly cooling down.
 
 Officials said no major inquiry has been ordered as they did not expect any had tampered with the track.
 
 They added that these sort of cracks occur in winters due to fluctuations in atmospheric temperature due to fog, dew and mist.
 
 Officials said such cracks are not that dangerous. “Regular patrolling is carried out along the tracks. We keep a regular check so that we are immediately informed about any damage to the tracks,” a railways spokesperson said.
 
 After a similar incident took place last month along the   route, officials were instructed to increase vigilance on railway tracks and to stays alert.
 
 
 
 
 Last month, a similar crack had been found on a track on the Indore-Mhow route. It was found at 8.07 am just as the Indore-Mhow DEMU train was about to pass. Santosh Baria, a resident of Pigdamber area, who noticed the crack, informed the at the nearest level crossing who in turn conveyed the information to higher officials and flagged down other trains from arriving along this route. A team of officials from the electrical and engineering department went to the spot and repaired the fracture.
 
 
