NEW DELHI: The first phase of the UP assembly elections for 73 seats takes off in the state’s 15 western districts on Saturday. The contest here — unlike the rest of the state — is four-cornered.

 Elsewhere in UP most seats have the SP-Congress alliance, BJP and   as key contenders. But the presence of Ajit Singh’s RLD adds another dimension to the fight in west UP, a stretch known for its industries and agriculture. In the 2012 assembly polls, SP and BSP won 24 west UP seats each, the BJP had 11.
 
 RLD bagged nine and the Congress five. The vote here had catapulted BJP towards a landslide victory in UP in the 2014 LS polls, and could reflect the trend in the rest of UP. If there’s one issue that no party has adequately addressed, it’s the farm distress — which has turned caste equations on its head.   say they are united in their suffering.
 
 The BJP began its campaign here by raking up   and the   “exodus”. Soon it began underplaying these “polarising” issues. Probably because they got no traction. In Kairana, the refrain TOI heard was: “Everyone lost after the 2013 Muzaffarnagar violence.”
 
 The party’s riot-accused faces, Sangeet Som, Suresh Rana and Sanjiv Balyan, star campaigners of 2014, were battling fi res on their home turfs and remained tied to their constituencies.
 
 Demonetisation and the surgical strikes, billed as the   government’s achievements, barely found mention. The BJP fell back on UP’s “poor” law and order, its seniors quoting crime figures disputed by the state government.
 
 Mayawati, who has a lot at stake in the region’s Muslim-dominated areas, is banking on a possible marriage of Dalit-Muslim votes. Her target was the Modi government for its “interference with Muslim personal law”.
 
 She claimed BJP would end Dalits quotas, building a theme of persecution around the two blocs. She urged Muslims not to waste votes on the SP-Congress alliance if they wanted to defeat the BJP.
 
 Akhilesh Yadav, stronger after the family feud and partnership with the Congress, hammered the development theme as   and he criticised Modi for spreading “politics of hate”. In UP, agriculture’s share in the state GDP has slipped.
 
 Sugarcane, mainstay of the state’s agrarian economy, has been facing turbulence — prices have been unstable, crores are pending in farmers’ dues.
 
 The SP government has added to this crisis. In its five years, the state-advised price (SAP) of sugarcane was raised only twice — in 2012-13 (from Rs 240 to Rs 280 per quintal) and 2016-17 (from Rs 280 to Rs 305 per quintal). This hasn’t gone down well with farmers. Many Jats, who voted BJP in 2014, are cane-growers.
 
 Faced with a broken communal thread and perils of living in a restive region after the 2013 riots, their romance with the BJP has hit a rough patch. Last year’s Jat quota stir was the last nail. Riding their anger and renewed faith in Charan Singh’s legacy, RLD has made a strong comeback.
 
 If that sentiment is reflected in the ballots, the state’s sugar bowl might spring a bitter surprise for the ‘big three’. 
 
