COIMBATORE: The   has removed   from 22.7 acres of land in the past five months. According to  , the value of the reclaimed land, which includes 64 sites, is worth Rs 236 crore. These sites were identified every weekend and the encroachments were removed by the civic body’s town planning wing. The civic body is expected to hand over these sites to the volunteering NGOs to maintain them.

 “We first identified  ,   and other corporation lands that had been encroached over the past several years. Every weekend, we take out a drive to remove the encroachments. We are hopeful of clearing all the encroachments very soon,” said Sasipriya, town planning officer. 
 
 This weekend, encroachments were removed from Vallalar Nagar, EKG Nagar, Chinnasamy Road and Dr Nanjappa Nagar. Nearly 65 cents of land worth Rs 5 crore was reclaimed in two days. “We were given instructions to remove encroachments every weekend. And since November, 2016, we had been implementing the same,” Sasipriya said.
 
 The officials said the reclaimed park sites would be handed over to interested volunteers, NGOs and corporates for maintenance. NGOs and corporates would be allowed to set up billboards on these sites. “There are more than thousand undeveloped sites. The civic body doesn’t have funds to spend on maintaining all the parks on its own,” said a corporation engineer.
 
 The civic body, Sasipriya said, had already passed a resolution to hand over these sites to NGOs, but the response was lukewarm. “We will provide electricity and water, besides taking up some repair works. The NGOs will have to maintain the parks and check for overgrowth and appoint a watchman,” she further said.
 
 A lion’s share of encroachments was removed from the West zone, from where we reclaimed 21 sites. And from north zone we removed encroachments from 15 sites. In all these locations, encroachers were given prior notice, officials said.
 
 Since, November last, the civic body has removed encroachments from 22.71 acres of land, the value of which is estimated at Rs 236 crore.
 
 Activists, however, pointed that the civic body had been removing only small tinned roof buildings that too from undisputed areas. “There are several park sites from where the high court has directed the civic body to clear encroachments. But fearing political pressure, many such sites have not been cleared. There are also park sites where the civic body has not put up boards,” said S P Thiyagarajan, an activist. 
 
 He also lamented that no steps were taken to ensure that these sites were not encroached again. “Boards should be set up and fences should be erected in all these sites,” he added. 
 
