CHENNAI: He left Srinagar in 1990 due to political reasons. A couple of years later, they burned down his house.When he revisited his home town after 15 years, he couldn't recognise it.

 The place where his house once stood was taken over by a shopping mall. Frustrated, he looked for other houses of his friends and relatives. He found ruined, abandoned houses frozen in silence around him. The woodand-brick houses made him think of how to address the issues of encroachment and decay as an artist. With years of exile,   finally started his work.
 
 Munshi first started sketching these abandoned houses, thinking of painting them later. He also took some photographs for his reference. However, a second thought changed the plan. “The only medium I could refuge in was photography, which may justify the houses that stand still like a portrait of the time. Every medium has its limitations and possibilities.For me, it was a shift from my painting practice to a new medium that involves technical abilities,“ said Veer Munshi, who was born in Srinagar and studied fine arts at M S University, Baroda. Munshi was speaking on “The fate of   in Kashmir“ at a two-day seminar on “Environmental Consciousness in Current Indian Art“ at DakshinChitra on Friday.
 
 Munshi's periodic visits to these sites to photograph the houses were doubly complicated by the pain of exile on one side and the memory of an irretrevably lost cultural life on the other. But he didn't look back. “I visited the sites in different seasons to create an ongoing body of work. It was fascinating during winter, particularly with early morning hours. The de mand for wide-angle lens became unavoidable to frame many houses that looked gigantic but the space around them was less.I haven't done any digital manipulation to the pictures. They are simple, plain truth printed on archival paper,“ he said.
 
 When Munshi took his 87 year-old mother to her native village in Baramulla (north Kashmir), she couldn't recogni se the place. But she could meet a couple of childhood friends.
 
 The artist, however, paid tribute to his friend who accompanied him during the shoot. “Muzafar accompanied me around, especially the areas that were politically vulnerable.He is no more. He died in mysterious circumstances. Muzafar was upfront against radicalism which probably cost his life. That is what Kashmir is today . Freedom of expression is lost and radicalism has taken over in the name of religion,“ he said.
 
 Munshi has 17 solo shows to his credit in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Perth, Edinburg and at the UN through his varied artforms such as installations, videos, paintings and photographs.
 
