NEW DELHI:   is a big business running parallel to  , but is it worth the cost? While companies offering the facility for a few thousand rupees claim it can be used to treat conditions ranging from cerebral palsy to diabetes, health experts and doctors disagree. They say   for treatment is limited to  ,  .

 In both cases, umbilical cord blood cannot be used to save the donor since it will have the same genetic abnormalities. Its usage for treating the donor’s siblings, or other family members, is also rare, as the HLA (a protein) has to match and weight-to-cord-blood ratio with the recipient has to be just right.
 
 The limitations notwithstanding, expecting mothers are flooded with offers to preserve the cord blood. Patients complain that most private hospitals and boutiques for childbirth allow marketing agents from stem cell banking facilities to freely solicit them. “I was inundated with calls from stem cell companies trying to convince me to go for umbilical cord preservation. On each visit to the hospital, representatives from these companies hound you,” said Nutan Verma, who is expecting twins.
 
 Geeta Sharma said she went through multiple presentations from executives of stem cell banking companies while waiting in hospital to deliver her baby. “They offered free genetic testing, lifelong storage and other benefits. I chose one of them offering to preserve umbilical cord for 21 years at Rs 50,000. The company representative told me that the contract can be renewed on expiry,” she said. 
 
 Geeta Jotwani, deputy director general of   (ICMR), told TOI that private companies offering to preserve umbilical cord blood must be strictly regulated. “Soliciting of patients by selling fake hopes is wrong. There is no evidence of stem cell use from umbilical cord presently, except in blood disorders. Only those having family members with these disorders should store it,” she said.
 
 Jotwani said ICMR was working on guidelines for stem cell banking which would be made public soon. “Many private banks are storing cord tissue, dental pulp, menstrual blood and adipose tissue as well for which there is no scientific evidence of any use in treatment as yet,” she added.
 
 Dr S P Yadav, paediatric hematologist at Medanta Medicity, Gurgaon, said private stem cell banking companies claimed that umbilical cord blood could be used to treat spinal cord injury, cerebral palsy and even diabetes, though there is no such proven research. “Currently, only five medical conditions can be treated through cord blood stem cell transplant — blood cancer, bone marrow failure, thalassaemia and sickle cell anaemia, immune system deficiency since birth and inborn errors of metabolism,” he said. “The chances of cord blood being used in the family or by the donor are 0.01%. Still, if somebody wants to preserve it, they should be allowed to. The problem is when poor or middle class families are lured into doing so with false claims about preserved blood being a panacea for all diseases,” said Yadav.
 
 On average, private banking of stem cells derived from cord blood costs Rs 50,000 to Rs 70,000. Banks claim to freeze the cells in liquid nitrogen so that it can be used up to 20 years from the date of preservation. 
 
 Dr Suneeta Mittal, director and head of the department of obstetrics and gynaecology at Fortis hospital, Gurgaon, said use of umbilical cord for treating various disorders was still at an experimental stage. “We do not advise patients to go for umbilical cord blood banking. But we cannot stop people from opting for that either,” she said.
 
 Health experts say private banking is a useless exercise while public banking — where a common pool, like a blood bank, is created for needy patients — may still be considered. “Public banking can be run by a private entity, though it is ideally crowd-funded, and it can be accessible to all needy patients. Those who have donated their child’s blood can get privilege or free access,” said an expert. He said the Union health ministry had formed a task force a few years ago to start a public banking facility on the lines of similar facilities in the US and other developed countries but it did not take off. 
 
 TOI also spoke to a leading cord blood banking organisation which said cord preservation was a new concept and would take some time for research to unfold the various medical applications. However, there were a few cases where a family used the once-preserved cord blood unit of a child to treat the sibling for thalassaemia and blood-related disorders, it said.
 
 “Under private banking, we store stem cell enriched from cord blood collected at the time of birth of the child, at the request of parents. The stem cells, so stored, can be used in future by the child or his or her siblings when the need arises to address a disease that can be treated by stem cell therapy. We have issued five grafts from the private bank to treat the affected sibling of a donor,” said an official. 
 
