PUNE: A 24-year-old woman process associate working with a KPO ( ) unit in Hadapsar had a close call while returning home in a cab on Thursday night when her colleague, with whom she had broken up recently, dragged her out of the car and tried to kill her by throttling her. 

 The 25-year-old suspect released the woman when their other two colleagues, who were travelling with them, rushed to save her. The incident occurred around 4 am when the cab had reached the Khadki Bazar area. The woman, who fainted due to the assault, was immediately taken to a nearby hospital. “She was discharged after preliminary treatment,” said Suhas Bhosale, senior inspector of Khadki police station.
 
 The police have arrested the suspect (name withheld) under sections 307 (murder  ), 354 (assault or criminal force on woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 322 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. He was produced before the Khadki court and remanded in police custody till January 16.
 
 Bhosale said the woman hailed from Thane and had a degree in Computer Science, while the suspect had done MBA. They were in a relationship since they came to know each other two-and-a-half years ago while working in a call centre in the city. “They had decided to marry and had started saving money to purchase a flat,” Bhosale said.
 
 About a year ago, both of them started working for the Hadapsar-based firm. A few months ago, the suspect ended their relationship as his family was against their marriage. 
 
 “After the break-up, the woman had been threatening him by saying that she would commit suicide. She had even sent her pictures showing her holding a knife to her throat,” Bhosale said. They had also filed complaint applications against each other.
 
 Bhosale said, “After seeing the pictures, the suspect prepared some documents in November last year and had got them attested by a notary. He had also taken signature of the woman on the papers. Since then, they were not on talking terms with each other.” The police are yet to verify these papers.
 
 How the incident unveiled
 
 Assistant inspector D N Salunkhe, who is investigating the case, said: “The suspect and the woman were working in the second shift on Wednesday. After their shift got over around 3am, both were allotted the same cab to go home. There were two more colleagues in the cab.
 
  “While travelling, the duo started arguing over some issue. The suspect asked the woman to hand over her cellphone. When she refused, he all of a sudden started hitting her with hands and legs,” Salunkhe said.
 
 After seeing the duo fighting in the cab, the driver became nervous and he suddenly accelerated the vehicle. By then, the cab had reached Khadki Bazar area. “The suspect then opened the door of the moving car and tried to drag the woman out. Realising what was happening, the driver immediately stopped the car,” Salunkhe said.
 
 The suspect then dragged the woman out of the cab and started kicking her in the stomach. “He started throttling her while she was lying on the road. At this point, the other colleagues came to her rescue,” Salunkhe said. The man had left the spot by then. The police team swung into action and arrested him later.
 
