KOZHIKODE: With bypoll just weeks away, the perceived 'pro-Sangh Parivar' image of the police is likely to make things difficult for the   in Malappuram. To the dismay of LDF campaign managers, a large chunk of the state's Muslim community, cutting across organisational affiliations, believe that the police are soft-pedalling cases in which BJP-RSS men are involved. And this may benefit UDF candidate P K Kunhalikutty, who is safely perched at the IUML stronghold. 

 It is no secret that a section of the community voted for the LDF in the previous assembly elections. But, things changed swiftly once   assumed office, thanks to the positions taken by the home department in crucial cases.
 
 The murder of Faizal, who embraced Islam, at Kodinhi is being cited as a classic example of this soft approach towards the Sangh Parivar. Muslim organizations alleged that the RSS men arrested in the case are now out on bail as police did not pursue the case seriously. The reluctance on the part of the police to slap Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) on the accused in the   murder in Kasaragod too have drawn flak. Moulavi, who was a madrassa teacher, was hacked to death inside the mosque at Choori on March 21. Muslim outfits fear that the police are winding up the case after the arrest of three RSS activists. "We will meet CM Pinarayi Vijayan to demand the imposition of UAPA. The murder is a terror activity as described under Section 15 of the Act. UAPA was invoked in cases having lesser magnitude in the past," said former government pleader and Kasaragod IUML leader C Shukkur.
 
 "We want the police to probe the conspiracy behind the murder as the men were influenced by the provocative speeches made by certain Sangh Parivar leaders . If the government fails to act, we will launch an agitation," he said.
 
 Sensing the swelling support for UDF, CPM has adopted a different strategy. Party state secretary   alleged that the IUML had joined hands with 'communal elements' such as SDPI and Jamaat-e-Islami to create a communal polarization in Kerala. He wanted the Congress to clarify its stand on the IUML-SDPI alliance.
 
 But, SDPI hit back saying that the comment had exposed Balakrishnan's communal mind. SDPI state president   said that minorities and backward classes are trying to forge an alliance to counter the increasing menace of RSS.
 
