CHENNAI: Soon, an   (drone) will hover over   and   and worthiness in the coming years. A series of   in recent years have propelled the state to evolve programmes to strengthen preventive mechanisms to face nature’s fury.

 Under the government’s kudimaramathu project, the traditional system of restoration of water bodies with participation of the local community, 22,899 ponds across the state have been revived so far. “The aerial assessment will help maintain river basins and water bodies better,” revenue minister R B Udhyakumar said. The aerial assessment is also to identify the water course and areas to construct check dams by the public works department, which now relies more on manual assessment.
 
 The drone has been developed by Anna University, thanks to Jayalalithaa government’s financial support in 2015 to take up speedy disaster relief work and monitor security threats. The disaster management department has already carried out a trial run for assessment of water bodies, noticing severe stress due to encroachments and impediments against free flow of water during floods. The long-term mitigation plan will help assess the diversion channels to take surplus to other sources to minimize the damage and possibilities of establishing link channels with nearby irrigation tanks. 
 
 A geographical information system (GIS) cell will also be set up in disaster management department with the help of Anna University, which will work on integrating the legacy data of various government agencies for better disaster management. After 2015 floods, 4,192 vulnerable areas were identified in the state with rankings from ‘very high’ to ‘low’, and maps prepared at firka (rural) and ward (urban) levels. “The aerial photography by   will be also superimposed on GIS platform,” revenue administration, disaster management and mitigation commissioner, K Satyagopal said, detailing how a few states have started availing GIS data models. From now on, relief amount for deaths due to sea erosion, lightning, thunder and whirlwind will be extended from disaster relief fund. 
 
 While institutional mechanism for disaster management has already been put in place, the recent manual from the Centre has the state announcing a separate drought monitoring centre at the state and district level to have a special focus for long-term management of drought. State relief commissioner will head the centre and collectors in districts. “Each disaster is considered separate entity to focus on prevention. These centres will do studies as well,” Satyagopal said. Coastal control rooms with focus on highly vulnerable areas have been announced to further strengthen preparedness.
 
 
 
