'Overzealous' cops booked UP man for a graver offense after he made random calls to   saying he'd 'pump several rounds of bullets' into his daughter Alia.

 Sandeep Sahu, a man from Uttar Pradesh who allegedly sent death threats to film maker Mahesh Bhatt, his wife, Soni Razdan, and daughter, 
 , saying if he wasn't handed over Rs 50 lakh, he would 'pump bullets' into the Bhatt family, will be out of jail soon. Sahu who was arrested in UP by the state's special task force (STF) and the Mumbai crime branch was granted bail for a sum of Rs 20,000 and asked to produce two people as surety for release. 
 
 He will have to mark his presence at the police station every Sunday between 2-4 pm but the chief metropolitan magistrate while granting bail observed that releasing the accused will not affect the course of the ongoing investigation.
  
  
 Sahu's lawyers,   and  , contended that the stringent Section 387(Putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion) was not applicable and it was a case of 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. "For this section of extortion to be applicable, there should be some transfer of valuable security or money, grievous hurt or injury. However, there is no such thing in the present case. The police in their overzealousness has booked him for a graver offense," Dwivedi told Mirror. Earlier this month Bhatt had lodged a complaint with the crime branch's anti extortion cell after allegedly receiving several ransom calls.
 
 Within 12 hours, 24-year-old Sahu was arrested in Lucknow.
 
 According to the complaint, Sahu posed as underworld gang ster Babloo Srivastava and threatened to kill Bhatt's wife Soni and their daughter Alia if he failed to deposit Rs 50 lakh in a bank account with a Lucknow address through a wire transfer. Bhatt received the first call on February 26, which he ignored thinking it was a prank. The caller made a few more calls and then texted, even sending   messages to not take the threats lightly. One of the texts read: "If you fail to do so, I will fire several rounds of bullets into your daughter Alia."
 
 Sahu had allegedly planned the offence to repay the Rs 6 lakh he had borrowed from his relatives who had been pressurising him to return the sum. He had taken the loan to set up a shoe shop in UP but was forced to shut it down after incurring losses. He came to Mumbai in the second half of 2016 with the hope of bagging roles in Hindi films but that dream too did not materialise.
 
 When informed about the fresh development, Bhatt said, "I have no information about this, kindly talk to the anti-extortion branch of Mumbai police for details. I have filed my complaint with the Mumbai police."
 
  
  
  
  
 
