 has always been setting hearts flutter with his killer smile, chiselled body and ready wit. The past year though showed off a new side of the sexy actor, with him sporting a bandholz beard that drove the women crazy and had men lining up to mirror his trend. However, the year was not just about looks or drool-worthy physique for the actor as he presented some show-stealing performances in the films Style and Guppy, which saw him rising to the ranks to A-list of actors in Mollywood right now.

 It's no wonder really, then, that with the polls online on www.itimes.com/polls, and our vote, Tovino is Kochi Times   Man of 2016. We ask him about his desirability quotient, his fitness mantra and how fatherhood has added another dimension to his life:
 
 
 
 Frankly, I don't think I am all that desirable. I believe I'm a decent-looking guy. I was considered for the list because I am an actor and a popular figure. Every day when I walk the streets, I see men who are more handsome, have a better physique and features than me. Having said that, I am extremely happy that people chose me to top the list. I think it's got to do with their love for the characters I have played. Kamal Haasan had once said that he looked the way he did because he was born to good-looking parents. So, I think genes too had a role to play in how I am.
 
 
 
 Definitely. I have always believed that your appearance as a character matters a lot and I have ensured that my looks match the role I'm playing. When I change my look for a movie, and when I look at myself in the mirror, I see the character, not myself.
 But if not for work, I am not the kind to take any extra effort to look good. When I go out I am not usually well-groomed. I love wearing casual and comfortable clothes. But that doesn't mean I go to a wedding or a formal function in a t-shirt and cargo shorts. I dress for the occasion. That's my style statement. When you are comfortable in what you wear, you also have peace of mind. So, more than labels or brands, I place more value on my sense of comfort.
 
 
 
 In Guppy, I played a character who is over 40 years old. So, to make it believable, I thought it was better if I looked hefty. My looks in Ezra and Godha required me to work out, but there's a misconception that I will be flaunting six-pack abs for the latter, in which I play a 24-year-old. In fact, I have consciously developed a physique that is a stark contrast to that of a supermodel. Wrestlers in real life have a robust, healthy body ' with muscular thighs, arms and a broad chest. They don't have ripped abs that require a rigorous diet. They can't afford to do that because they need energy when they wrestle.
 
 My character in Oru Mexican Aparatha didn't need to be muscular at all because he is the one who gets hit. But I am no role model for fitness because I am a foodie and also lazy to an extent. If there's motivation, I am ready to put in the yards. However, I am aware that being an actor, it's better to be fit than to be on the chubbier side so eating clean is something I have been doing for long. Whenever I have sweet and oily foods, I have developed that restraint to have it in moderation.
 
 
 
 More than that, I believe you just have to be active. It's as good as a workout. I try to climb the stairs instead of using lifts if the building is just four or five storeys high. Also for short distances, I don't take my car out. I'd rather walk. I do these activities passionately and they are part of my workout. My fitness mantra is just to be active.
 
 
 
 I try to make sense whenever I talk and say only what I mean. I believe in being genuine towards people. It's easier and comfortable for me to be myself with them. I always want a comfort zone around me so I always hang out with my friends. I don't want people to look up to me or down on me. I just want them to consider me as an equal. A lot of people have told me that's what they like about me. So, I am guessing that's the appealing part.
 
 
 
 I don't think I have become responsible overnight or there's been a sweeping change. I still think I am a kid at heart, I hope to remain the same. I have always been a fun-loving person, but after becoming a father ' yeah I have become mature in some aspects. Mine was a love marriage but I loved my wife Lidiya most when she was pregnant. I think people who become a father would understand that.
 
 Earlier, I used to go home only when I got a break for at least three or four days. Now, I try to rush home even if I get off work for a day. In the past, whenever I went home I used to go out but now I spend most of the time at home with my wife and daughter. So, there have been changes and I am seeing a new dimension of myself in this phase of fatherhood, which I am enjoying immensely. 
 
 
 
 If you are talking about the first glance, it will just be the looks. Everyone notices a beautiful woman. But over a period of time, I think it's the character of the person that gets precedence over the beauty. I like a woman who is genuine, who is true to herself. There's nothing appealing about a woman who is not cute trying to act like she is or who is not bold trying to fake it. There's desirability in everyone ' be it women or men ' when they are being themselves.
 
 
 
 There are lots of people ' it could be because of the characters they played, their acting talent or looks. I have said this before that I have found Nithya Menen desirable. It could be because of the ease with which she essays her characters, her personality and her looks.
 
