COIMBATORE: The city crime branch (CCB) of the Coimbatore city police have questioned director of a private spinning mill, his son-in-law and   of the   for allegedly   Rs 18 crore and duping two other  .

 Based on the complaint from the partners, the industrialist from   was questioned on Friday. The spinning mill, which was reopened a few days back in Gobichettipalayam in Erode district, had to be shut down because of the loot. 
 
 According to police sources, C Subramaniam, director of MC Spinners private limited at Gowtham centre on Avinashi Road here filed a petition before the judicial magistrate court –III and requested the court to direct CCB police to file a case against his business shareholder’s family for siphoning off Rs 18 crore. 
 
 Based on the court order, CCB police received a complaint from Subramaniam and registered a case against R Doraisamy, 68, director of MC Spinners private limited from Kullegoundenpudur near Andipalayam in Tirupur, S Ramaraj, 53, chief financial officer, Doraisamy’s wife Dhanalakshmi 58, and Doraisamy’s son-in-laws R Mahesh, 37 from SBI Colony in Tirupur, B Shanmugavadivel, 36 from Kosavampalayam in Palladam and K Narendra Kumar, 32 from Thennampalayam in Tirupur. All were booked under Section 120 (B), 420, 409 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code. 
 
 Police sources added that Subramaninam was one of the directors of the mill and possessed 50% of the mill share. Doraisamy and his family members were holding 25.67 % of shares and rest of the shares owned by Venakatachalam and Sivaram. The mill was functioning at Varapalayam near Gobichettipalayam in Erode district and the registered office was functioning in Coimbatore city. The mill’s administration was taken over by Subramaniam from 2011 -2014.
 
 Later, Doraisamy took over the administration from Subramaniam. With the help of Ramaraj and family members, the mill’s director Doraisamy allegedly siphoned off Rs 18 crore from the mill. Based on the complaint, the police registered a case and picked up Doraisamy, Ramaraj and Shanmugavadivel for questioning on Friday afternoon.
 
 The complainant told police that the mill had borrowed a loan of Rs 52.26 crore from SBI, commercial branch, Trichy road and he had pledged his property documents as surety. Police officials from CCB said that they have collected valid documents from both parties and further investigation is on.
 
 
