NAVI MUMBAI: The ensuing under-17   World Cup has changed the face of the satellite city overnight. It has been transformed into a world-class sporting destination with four FIFA-approved natural grass turf fields in place ahead of the World Cup. Nerul’s Dr DY Patil stadium will host eight matches, including a showpiece semifinal, and serve as one of six venues in the country.

 Until recently, the city lacked a dedicated   ground, but it has now got four international standard natural grass turf fields for participating teams. In fact, all four practice   have been developed over the last few months in the periphery of the main match venue. Two practice grounds were created on either side of the match venue, and Dr DY Patil Sports Academy (DYPSA) has been credited for it.
 
 DY Patil cricket ground inside DY Patil University has been converted into the FIFA practice turf with major renovation, while the abandoned site and parking lot have been developed into the second football ground. Navi Mumbai Sports Association (NMSA) football ground at Vashi and Yashvantrao Chavan Maidan of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) at Nerul are the two other sites for training teams that will play in Navi Mumbai.
 
 As per FIFA guidelines, at least four grass turf fields for practice close the tournament venue were required and Navi Mumbai lived up to the demand. Bermuda grass roots from US were planted at NMSA ground last winter to create a practice turf. Besides, a one lakh litre underground water tank has been commissioned to store boring water for maintenance of the turf through sprinklers. Bermuda grass seeds from Australia and sand from Mahad were used to create the practice ground at NMMC’s Yashwantrao Chavan ground. 
 
 NMMC commissioner N Ramaswami said, “The city’s sporting infrastructure has been transformed drastically. The city is now equipped with four state-of-the-art natural turf fields to cater as practice grounds for young international footballers. NMMC has developed a practice ground with its own budget of Rs 3.35 crore. We will promote civic school students to hone their football skills after the tournament.”
 
 The stadium, designed for cricket in the heart of the city, has undergone a massive makeover to become a typical football arena. “We replaced all 55,000 seats for the global event without considering cost. For the first time, India is hosting the World Cup and Navi Mumbai has been awarded its share as a host city, so we feel proud that our facility will be of good use for a sporting event of such magnitude. We have prepared two practice grounds on either side of the match venue with imported grass,” said Dr Vijay Patil, head of Dr DY Patil Stadium.
 
 With 20 days to go for the mega sporting extravaganza, all four natural grass turf fields have been readied. Both practice sessions and matches will be played under floodlights. “We have spent Rs 4 crore to develop the ground, with fencing and floodlights. After the event, the facility could be a big attraction for promotion of football in the city. Football enthusiasts from across Mumbai metropolitan region will make good use of it. Thanks to FIFA for giving us this opportunity to become a stakeholder,” said Dr Dilip Rane, vice-president, NMSA.
 
 
