NEW DELHI: Between 2012 and 2016, a total of 186 complaints of   by   were recorded in states where the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 is in force, with the troubled state of Jammu and Kashmir accounting for almost half the complaints. 

 Of the 186 complaints received between, the ministry of home affairs (MHA), while answering an RTI query, said that 127 cases of rights violations had been disposed of. "The data supplied by MHA under RTI does not indicate whether these complaints (which were disposed of) were found to be true or false," said Venkatesh Nayak of the   (CHRI). 
 
 Nayak added that the data showed that J&K accounted for 49.5% of the complaints, while a little over 31% were from people in Assam. "Manipur accounted for a little more than 11%, with Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Tripura accounting for fewer than 10 complaints each. Only one complaint was received from Nagaland during this period," said Nayak. He added, "Interestingly, more than 57% of the complaints of human rights violations received from Assam are shown as pending."
 
 The MHA reply also shows that monetary relief to the tune of Rs. 6.47 crores was recommended in 117 cases during this period, with J&K accounting for only 3% of the recommended monetary relief, despite having the highest number of complaints.
 
 Nayak, who had filed the RTI based on an un-starred question asked by five MPs in December last year, said the data given was for the seven states where   is in place: Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, J&K, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Tripura. In Tripura, AFSPA was removed in May 2015.
 
 The data given by MHA segregates the complaints into 12 categories, ranging from "arbitrary use of power" to "custodial death", "custodial torture", "death in army encounter" and "death in army firing". Said Nayak, "The most number of complaints seem to have been received against the defence forces rather than the central paramilitary forces such as the CRPF, Assam Rifles, etc. deployed in the seven states."
 
  There are also 10 complaints of abduction and rape. However, data provided by MHA does not specify whether these crimes were committed by the defence forces or the paramilitary forces deployed in the seven states. "50% of these cases are received from Assam alone - four of which were sent in 2015-16 (up to January) - all of which are shown as pending," said Nayak citing the RTI reply, adding that overall, six of ten cases received are not shown as disposed of until January 2016. 
 
 In an earlier report, unidentified government officials claimed that 150 defence personnel were punished in 23 years for rights violations.
 
 
