CHENNAI: The city's first underground   continues to attract joyriders a week after it opened for the public, although   still plague the operation of trains on the eight kilometre   from   to  . 

 After the first day of the launch on May 14 when more than 40,000 commuters used the service, officials said an average of 35,000 commuters have been taking the metro trains every day. The number is more than double the average count of commuters who took the trains before the launch of the underground line.
 
 Nehru Park, Shenoy Nagar and Thirumangalam stations contribute to the majority of footfall on the underground line followed by Anna Nagar Tower and Anna Nagar East.
 
 A member of the private security staff at Nehru Park station said the response had been good for the last one week as CMRL was offering a 40% discount on tickets. However, passengers are unhappy over the inconvenience caused by the teething trouble.
 
 "The trains do not arrive at the time announced in the public address system. They either arrive much before the time or after the time. I had taken the underground train at least three times in the last week. The problem continues," said Shankaran, a resident of Shenoy Nagar.
 
 Raghuram, a resident of Kilpauk, complained that trains do not terminate at the destination announced earlier. "I took a train at Alandur and wanted to reach Kilpauk station. But the screens at Alandur mentioned that the train would terminate at Shenoy Nagar. I alighted at Shenoy Nagar thinking it was the last stop, but the train proceeded further towards Kilpauk," he said.
 
  In response, a CMRL official said, "There are certain issues which we would know about only when we start operations. The problems we are facing are similar to those which arose when we opened the elevated lines. It would take at least a month for the problems to be set right."
 
 While officials said they have received a positive response over the use of smart cards, commuters said they still find it inconvenient as they have to stand in queues.
 
 Priya, a resident of Mannadi who boarded the train at Nehru Park, said, "Unlike tokens where we know how much we are spending, it is difficult to keep track of the money being deducted in smart cards. We have to keep checking our balances."
 
