Akshay Kumar-starrer   cleared a legal hurdle on Monday as the Aurangabad bench of the   disposed of a petition filed by a Nanded lawyer challenging the screening of the movie. The plea was disposed of after the producer offered to delete certain objectionable scenes from the movie, which is scheduled to be released on Friday. 

  Ajaykumar Waghmare, a lawyer from Nanded, had approached the HC, through lawyers V D Salunke and Pandit Anerao, challenging the movie screening, seeking removal of the word LLB from the title and dropping of scenes that depict lawyers playing cards on court premises and a judge hiding under the dais or attempting to evade a shoe being hurled at him. 
 
 The petitioner had said that from whatever is shown in the trailers, "it is nothing but an attempt to portray the Indian legal profession and judicial system as a laughing stock to the society at large."
 
 During a hearing on January 30, the bench comprising Justice S S Shinde and Justice K K Sonawane had formed a three-member amicus curiae to watch the movie and submit a report on whether the film denigrates the judges or lawyers. 
 
 The amicus curiae submitted their report on Monday. The report, a copy of which is with TOI, cited "objectionable scenes", including one that depicts the protagonist signalling his client to throw shoe at the judge. 
 
 The report also cites another dialogue between two lawyers, the male protagonist and his colleague, which could be contempt of court. 
 
 During the course of arguments on Monday, the producers came forward offering to make changes or modify the scenes. The producers said: "The scene where the protagonist jumps on and off the dais will be removed. However, dialogue/conversation between the protagonist and the judge will be retained."
 
  The producers also told the court that the "signalling scene will be deleted and shoe scene will be modified". They also offered to delete the dialogue which the amicus curiae though could amount to contempt of court. Following the arguments, the court disposed of the PIL while directing that the producer delete the specified scenes, said V D Salunke, a lawyer who represented the petitioner. 
 
 
