NAGPUR: A student of Indian Institute of Management, Nagpur (IIM-N), has been offered Rs1.6 lakh stipend in the two-month summer placement drive this season. IIM-N also announced that its second batch too got 100% summer placement, just like the first batch last year.

 Vijay Phate, in-charge of placement office, said, “This year, the highest and the average stipend offered saw a significant jump. The highest stipend offered was Rs1.6 lakh, and the average stipend of the batch also increased by 24% to Rs56,900.”
 
 Meanwhile, the on-campus placement drive for the first batch of IIM-Nagpur is also underway. Authorities said that many students have got good offers, but refused to divulge further details, saying the official announcement would be made very soon.
 
 This year more than 40 recruiters from across sectors have found IIM-N students suitable for the summer internship positions, the premier institute said in a press statement. IIM-N has seen a significant increase in number of first-time recruiters, even for the second batch of PGP students, it added.
 
 The prominent recruiters include Yes Bank, BPCL, ICICI Lombard, Choice India, Calderys, Delivering Change Foundation ( ), IDBI Federal, Excellon, Diffusion Engineers, WCL, Persistent etc. Among these, ICICI Lombard and   made the highest number of offers.
 
 Many of the students chose sales and marketing as their preferred domain, while the rest chose to undergo internship in domains such as strategy, consulting, finance, business analytics, IT consulting, operation, and IOT. Most of the students will be undergoing summer internship in metro cities like Mumbai, Delhi, Pune and Nagpur. The Rs1.6 lakh stipend is reportedly the highest offered to IIM-N student as yet in both batches, though this couldn’t be confirmed officially.
 
 IIM-N student placement coordinator Srishty said, “I am glad that our batch received offers from prominent companies who offered interesting roles.”
 
 Another student coordinator, Aniket Hinge, said, “The PGP batch of 2016-18 has performed excellently — both academically and professionally. Their summer internship placements speak for it. IIM Nagpur’s presence is being felt in the corporate fraternity, resulting in more new firms absorbing the talent pool at the institute.” 
 
