MOHALI: If you are low on confidence, you will find a way not to win. The   found one against the King XI Punjab at the   in Mohali on Sunday. They were not as bad as the   Bangalore, who were bowled out for 49 by the   last week. But they were only fractionally better.

 Opting to field after winning the toss, the Kings XI Punjab, spearheaded by crafty medium-pacer Sandeep Sharma, ran through the Delhi Daredevils innings which folded up for a measly 67 in 17.1 overs.
 
 The hosts rounded up the match in grand style. It was all over within 7.5 overs. Opener Martin Guptill made 50 off 27 balls (6x4, 3x6) and remained unbeaten with Hasim Amla (16) that enabled the Kings XI to register their biggest win in this   - by a 10-wicket margin. Incidentally, this was Delhi lowest score ever in the tour nament. Their previous lowest came against the Sunrisers Hyderabad in 2013 when they had managed 80.
 
 On a Mohali pitch which again had a tinge of green but was on the slower side, the Kings made four changes in the playing XI out of which three were bowlers. Sandeep got going in the first over of the match itself when he sent back Delhi's Sam Bilings for a duck. In the second over, Sharma dismissed inform Sanju Samson. When Shreyas Iyer got out in the fifth over, Delhi were in big trouble.
 
 Karun Nair, who was captaining the team in place of an injured Zaheer Khan, disappointed yet again while Rishabh Pant was trapped in front of the wicket by Punjab captain Glenn Maxwell. Even Chris Morris and Kagiso Rabada failed to repair the innings.
 
 It wasn't about Sharma only, though. Left-arm seamer T Natarajan too bowled a good line and kept things tight from the very beginning. Varun Aaron to got into the act, bagging two wickets.
 
 Delhi Daredevils hardly looked like the team which had shown so much promise in the first weeks of the competition. They looked completely out of sorts and didn't have the firepower to counter the hosts who notched up a welcome win which keeps their campaign alive.
 
