Nagpur: Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, district guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and union minister of state for home affairs Hansraj Ahir visited two hospitals in the city on Friday to meet jawans injured in the Naxal blast recently. Fadnavis is learnt to have interacted with the jawans and assured all help. He also collected details of their treatment from the doctors at CureIt hospital in Dighori, where 18 personnel, including critically ill sub-inspector Deepak Mandawlkar, are being treated. Apart from Fadnavis and Ahir, minister of home for urban development Dr Ranjeet Patil, and Addl DG (operations) D Kanakratnam too met the jawans and their kin. A day earlier, minister of home for rural development Deepak Kesarkar had visited the hospital with city police chief K Venkatesh. On Friday, two more C-60 jawans from Gadchiroli, Satish Mahaka and Manoharrao Mahaka, were flown to the city by chopper before being admitted at Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI). On Thursday, C-60 jawans Vijay Singh Thakur and Giridhar Tulavi had been shifted from a Raipur-based hospital to OCHRI. Apart from Thakur and Tulavi, CRPF jawan T Guniya is also being treated at another hospital. Thakur and Tulavi had been flown to Raipur after being injured in the encounter at Koparshi-Pulnar forest, near Koti in Bhamragarh taluka on Wednesday. Satish and Manoharrao were part of the reinforcement team, which was targeted with a blast by the Naxalites near Kier village, on Koti-Hemalkasa Road later on Wednesday. Around 23 jawans were injured and one killed in the two incident separated by a few hours. C-60 jawan Suresh Telami died after suffering multiple injuries, including on the head, in the blast. Even as the dignitaries were engaged in the visits, a senior inspector from Nagpur city police came forward to help the kin of the jawans by providing them meals on his own initiative.  A senior government official accompanying Fadnavis said the CM discussed details of the treatment with the doctors. “He sat across the doctors just like a relative, expressing concern about the health of the injured and possible medical assistance that can availed,” he said. Ahir said Maharashtra and some other states are engaged in various tactics to tackle Naxalism. “The Gadchiroli jawans had fought a ground battle commendably despite being injured, which helped keep the casualties in check,” he said. “On May 8, Union home minister Rajnath Singh is set to convene an all-state meeting to discuss the current scenario and requirements for better control of the problem. With Centre’s support, the states should focus hard on internal security,” he said. Doctors at work PSI Deepak Mandawlkar was among the three personnel who underwent major injuries at CureIt hospital. A reliable source at the hospital said Mandawlkar is now undergoing dialysis after suffering acute renal failure due to prolonged hypotension. “Mandawlkar would need five more dialysis,” said the source. “The two other major operations were fracture related,” said another source. A total of six persons underwent surgeries.  A team of OCHRI doctors is treating the four jawans at OCHRI, informed Dr Anup Marar. Vijay Singh Thakur and Giridhar Tulavi suffered fire arm injuries while Satish Mahaka and Manoharrao Mahaka have suffered wounds in the landmine blast. The team of doctors comprise Dr Rajesh Atal, Dr A Saoji, Dr Mukund Thakur, Dr Ninad Gawande and Dr A Shukla.