COIMBATORE: The projects announced by the city corporation await politicians’ approval for inauguration. 

 One of the major projects announced recently was the ‘Express Building’ in which the approvals were supposed to be passed for a 1,200sqft area within a day. The project was announced in the second week of June and was supposed to start by the third week. The town planning officials when contacted said that the project had to be inaugurated by local administration minister,  . 
 
 “We have been waiting for his nod and seeking the dates. Once he inaugurates the project, we will begin the process,” a senior corporation officer said. 
 
 As per the project, petitions will be received by the officials every Wednesday and Thursday at 10am. By 5.45pm, the approvals will be passed. Either they can receive it manually or through a registered post. Generally, building approval on a DTCP approved land takes between 30 days to a few months. The civic body received nearly 10 petitions for land approvals every day of which three are for 1,200sqft.
 
 Senior officials also said that there were several other projects that were to be inaugurated. “We have done all the paper work and the projects are ready. They will be inaugurated soon,” an official said.
 
 In the district, one project that has been neglected for nearly a year by the state government is the   government hospital’s newly-constructed building for the labour ward. 
 
 The hospital officials said that the Rs 3.5 crore project can accommodate 30 beds of which 20 will be allotted for labour ward and 10 for pediatrics. “The building was constructed a year back, but it neither had cots, beds, furniture nor other amenities. Even the proposal for scan centre has not been sanctioned yet,” a civic activist in Mettupalayam said.
 
 Senior doctors at the government hospital said that the building was listed for inauguration even when the chief minister   visited the district last time to inaugurate a slew of projects. “But this building was not part of this. We are awaiting the inauguration as the patients can be shifted there only after that,”  , chief medical officer of the GH said.
 
 Apart from the inauguration, the government is yet to sanction cots, beds, mattresses and pillows for the building. 
 
 “Generally, when wards are set up, all the facilities and utilities are also installed. But sadly, all our demands have fallen on deaf ears. Under the MP fund, cots have been promised, which however are yet to reach,” an official said. Some said the delay was because the MLA of that constituency was from OPS faction. 
 
