AHMEDABAD: Unesco’s ‘World Heritage City’ status has finally helped Ahmedabad bargain for a little elbow room in Gujarat State School Textbook Board (GSSTB). For several years now, children of class 7, who are introduced to Medieval Gujarat in Social Science-Semester 2 textbooks, are told in as few as 260 words about the 347 years of Sultanate and Mughal rule in Gujarat. On the other hand, some 2,230 words are dedicated to the roughly 560-year-rule of the Vaghela, Solanki and Chavda dynasties.

 Now with two World Heritage Sites — Ahmedabad city and Champaner-Pavagadh Archaeological Park — being from the   period, the station education department has promised that it will carry a special section on Ahmedabad which is a living museum. 
 
 The city’s unique community living system of pols and the city's role as state's economic epicenter is not explained in the textbooks in use.
 
 In fact, Gujarat's only other Sultanate period complex listed as a   World Heritage Site — the Champaner-Pavagadh monuments built by Sultan Mohammed Begada — does not find mention even today in GSSTB textbooks. 
 
 Further, Ahmedabad’s importance in Mahatma Gandhi’s freedom struggle is also under-represented.
 
 Today GSSTB textbooks have reams on the Solanki period in medieval history, the Sultanate rule is explained to have contributed only the Siddi Syed Jaali, Kankaria Lake and the Sarkhej Roza, apart from “numerous mosques”. The books glaze over facts like Ahmed Shah established Ahmedabad and that Sultan Mehmud Begada also ruled Gujarat. Mughal rule in Gujarat is almost given a miss.
 
 Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar told TOI: “We have already written to the GSSTB to include a portion on Ahmedabad and see to it that the cultural heritage of the city is duly represented.”
 
 Nitin Pethani, executive director of Gujarat State School Textbook Board (GSSTB), told TOI that in the wake of Ahmedabad getting the Unesco World Heritage Site status, they have already formed a committee of experts to ascertain where the chapters and information about Ahmedabad city's history and significance as a world heritage site can be included in the existing curriculum. 
 
 
