BENGALURU: The tourism department’s plan to boost tourism, opening up the two green spaces in the city,   and  , from 7pm to midnight seems to have ruffled many feathers. The city’s intelligentsia and environmentalists fear that   and the environment. 

 “If the idea is to encourage  , why can’t the government shed some light on the heritage and culture of Bengaluru by organizing walks in places like Shivajinagar during Ramzan?” asks Prasad Bidapa, fashion guru. 
 
 “ Lalbagh and Cubbon Park are the city’s only lung spaces, hence we should just leave them untouched. The nocturnal creatures will be disturbed as there will be a lot of movement in the park. The routine of animals will get disturbed as some tend to hunt at night. Flashing headlights will prevent them from doing so,” he added.
 
 Civic evangelist V Ravichandar said the government can encourage tourism in VV Puram, Mosque Road and other food streets. “Turning these food streets pedestrian-friendly will make the evenings lively. Street food can be used to woo tourists. Anything that gives residents and tourists new options at late evenings is welcome. When it comes to parks, keeping certain areas for tourism is good. It would be nice if there are some cultural activities too. I welcome night tourism at Cubbon Park as long as it does not disturb nocturnal animals,” he added.
 
 
 
 Rubbishing the idea, the Lalbagh Walkers’ Association expressed concern over security issues. “When there are already security issues at Lalbagh post 9pm, why are we inviting more trouble? Citizens enjoy during the day itself when the park is open from 5am to 9pm. There are only 10 security guards during the day which itself is not enough,” said P Sadashiva, president of the association.
 
 According to ornithologist Krishna M B, the government should have initiated programmes to educate the public on the biodiversity of these parks. “Illuminating Lalbagh will disturb nocturnal creatures like owls. The government must be cautious of the ecologically sensitive areas as we have only protected about 5% of such land,” Krishna added.
 
 Priya Chetty Rajagopal of Citizens For Bengaluru feels though the idea is good, it may fail in implementation due to its counter effect on ecology. “As every Sunday and alternate Saturdays are traffic-free, more people are visiting Cubbon Park. It seems like a smart marketing move, but from an ecological point of view, it puts a lot of pressure on the park, with effects on its flora and fauna. Night is when the trees are recharging and the animals are resting. We should conduct more poetry readings and creative gatherings. Why can’t the government engage committed and passionate citizens in its decision making?” she asked. 
 
 Danish Sheikh, lawyer, who organised Shakespeare in the Park series where plays were staged at Cubbon Park, opined that the initiative will help reclaim public spaces. “As far as the argument about the law and order issues goes, one can say such things can happen at any point of time, it needn't only be at night. In fact, there’s more safety in having people on the streets in the night. The authorities must take steps to make these areas more accessible with better lighting and security,” he added.
 
