MUMBAI: The 22-year-old Dombivli woman, who had approached the  , in the 23rd week of pregnancy for permission to abort the foetus, has crossed the first hurdle with the committee of KEM Hospital doctors giving an opinion in her favour. 

 However, the Supreme Court reserved its verdict on Friday and scheduled the next hearing for Monday.
 
 The court had asked a committee of seven doctors from the KEM Hospital, Parel, to examine and furnish a report. The committee’s report based on sonography scans and psychological evaluation of the mother was finalized and sent to the apex court within 24 hours. The committee unanimously stated that the woman had genuine grounds to seek abortion. A source said that in cases where the anomaly is so serious such as anencephaly, an immediate termination of pregnancy is usually recommended. In this case, however, the woman had crossed the 20-week deadline for   as set by the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act and therefore could not undergo the procedure.
 
 Anencephaly is a critical developmental defect where parts of the brain are missing in the foetus. Doctors say, babies born with anencephaly don’t survive beyond a few minutes or hours. Married for a year, the couple was expecting their first child. They were turned down by several doctors before gynaecologists Dr   and Dr   suggested the legal route.
 
 “The KEM report has come in the woman’s favour, which is a good news. But the respondents were furnished with the details of the case and the medical report only on Friday. So they wanted some time to study the findings. We are hopeful that the verdict may come on Monday,” said one of the lawyers. The city’s medical fraternity that has been closely following the case were disappointed with the delay in the verdict. “Every passing day gets more agonizing for a woman who knows that her pregnancy will not reach the full term,” said a senior doctor. Dr Datar said that it is only to avoid situations like this that the judiciary or the government need to come out with guidelines so that women are not forced to go to court every time. 
 
 
