HYDERABAD: A key accused arrested for the robbery bid at  , Mylardevpally, had worked for the prestigious Union ministry of home affairs (MHA)-driven Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) programme. Ironically, the culprit had worked for the   after spending several years in jail for his role in a counterfeit currency case. 

 The startling revelation came to the notice of Cyberabad police when they arrested four accused in the Muthoot Finance robbery attempt case. On interrogation of the offenders, police found out that one of the accused, Shafiuddini Navaboddin Sayyad alias Shafi, 30, of Khirani Mala village in Osmanabad district of Maharashtra, had an intriguing past.
 
 Police found that Shafi, a computer engineering graduate, had criminal past. In 2004, Shafi was arrested by the Pousdhar Chowdi police of Sholapur in a counterfeit currency case. In 2006, Shafi was convicted in the case and sentenced to 10-year imprisonment. After completing his term, Shafi was released in 2011.
 
 Shafi became close to other accused in the prison. While planning to commit big robberies with his associates, Shafi also dabbled in various other works. "He worked as a software consultant and also worked as a CCTV camera installer," an investigating official said.
 
 But, the biggest surprise for police came when they grilled him in detail about all the jobs he had done and their duration. Shafi told police that while working as an employee of a software firm in Maharashtra, he worked for the MHA's CCTNS project. 
 
 Like the Telangana police, their counterparts in Maharastra had also outsourced the implementation of CCTNS project to software firms and Shafi worked for one of the outsourced firms. "He worked for one-and-half years on the CCTNS project and had a thorough understanding of criminal database of police and criminal tracking system," a Cyberabad police source said. 
 
 Using his experience, Shafi played a crucial role in the Mylardevpally Muthoot robbery plan and after their plan went awry, he gave a tough time to cops. After the attempt, the culprits abandoned their getaway vehicle, Tavera, at an apartment complex in Upparapally and went to Jubilee Bus Station (JBS) by travelling in an auto and city bus. From JBS, they went to Osmanabad.
 
 After reaching Osmanabad, Shafi was joined by  , who provided shelter for the gang at Bandlaguda in Chandrayangutta. Both the accused along with their women fled from Osmanabad and continued travel to Jaipur, Ajmer, Dausa and other places to hide from the police dragnet.
 
 Cyberabad police special team travelled 3,500 kilometre by road to track Shafi and Dastagir. It was a difficult task for the cops to zero in on the offenders as they never used a private vehicle and always took shelter at crowded places.
 
