DEHRADUN: In a   to the lakhs of passengers who visit the Dehradun   every day, authorities on Friday announced that train services would be back to normal starting today. At least 16 trains that crossed Dehradun or originated here were rerouted to Haridwar creating severe chaos over days. Construction and maintenance work on one of the platforms called for this 40-day traffic block that started on April 17.
 
  Pramod Kumar, Moradabad divisional railway manager (DRM) told TOI, “We inspected the tracks on Friday and work is almost complete. All trains that were partially cancelled will return to their normal schedule from Saturday. The work had to be done to improve facilities and cleanliness at the station and was not intended at inconveniencing passengers in any way. We are happy to provide them a cleaner station.”
  
  Kartar Singh, station superintendent agreed, “Work on the tracks has been completed, it is only the finishing touches on the platform that is left. The trial run of an engine on this track was successful and all trains will start running normally from Saturday.”
  
  Meanwhile, shopkeepers at the station premises were ecstatic that after a long break their sales will be back to normal. “The track work looks complete even though there’s still some left on the platform. Sales were badly hit during the 40-day period and we hope things will turnaround once all trains are back on track,” said Anil Jain, a bookstall owner at Doon railway station.
  
  Earlier, all trains were to resume from May 23 but work was still pending and the partial traffic block was extended till Friday. When a TOI team visited the station on Friday, work was still on. When probed, the authorities said that the construction work in front of platform 3 has been completed, now, just the tiling work is left. Also, the elevator that was to be fixed is still underway. The workers however looked confident that the railways wouldn’t extend the traffic block any further.
  
  Meanwhile, even on Friday, agitated passengers continued with their complaints to railway minister,   on Twitter. One of the tweets read, “Bad service no intimation of train 12018 Dehradun Shatabdi starting from Haridwar. Stuck up at Dehradun” (sic). Some of the regular travellers were happy that would not have to go all the way to Haridwar to board the Shatabdi and other trains that were rerouted.
