MUMBAI: The   (SJMSOM),  , has concluded final placements for the 2017 batch, with the highest salary offered being Rs 29.9 lakh, up from last year’s Rs 27.5 lakh. 

 The placement figures for the batch ended with an average salary of Rs 17.6 lakh, a marginal increase from the previous year’s Rs 17.5 lakh, and the top 30% of the batch securing an average package of Rs 24.4 lakh. 
 
 A total of 52 companies participated in the placement drive, including 17 new recruiters offering diverse profiles across multiple domains; 48 participating students were offered PPO/PPIs.
 
 The manufacturing and consulting sector dominated the placements with 24% and 22% of the participating students securing offers from these segments respectively; 20% bagged offers in the IT sector, 15% in BFSI, 14% in FMCG and the rest got offers in healthcare and other sectors. FMCG giants, including Asian Paints, BCCL, Britannia, Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, L’Oréal, Marico, Mondelēz, Nestlé, P&G and Pidilite Industries offered profiles such as sales & marketing, supply chain management, operations and IT.
 
 The BFSI sector witnessed giants like  , J P Morgan Chase, D E Shaw, BNP Paribas, Ocwen Financial Solutions, Axis Bank, CRISIL, ICICI, Invesco, Indus Valley Partners, Trafigura and Yes Bank visiting the campus and offering roles in corporate treasury, commodity trading, corporate banking, business analysis & research, and relationship banking.
 
 Major consulting and IT firms like Accenture, Capgemini, Cisco, CitiusTech, Deloitte, eClerx, Feedback Infra, GEP, Google, Inspirage, Latent View, MAQ Software, PwC, SAP, and Wipro offered coveted roles in strategy & operations consulting, management consulting, technology Consulting, Digital Marketing, Data Analytics and Security Solutions. Along with these, niche real estate firms like JLL offered roles in real estate consulting.
 
 The manufacturing sector saw firms such as Avery Dennison, Cummins India, Godrej & Boyce, Indian Oil Corporation, Lava International, Siemens,  , Vedanta Resources and Whirlpool offering profiles in international business, operations, sales & marketing, systems, and vendor management.
 
 SJMSOM also saw participation of firms from sectors such as healthcare, telecommunications and logistics. Companies such as Cochlear, Vodafone and FedEx offered roles in sales & marketing, operations, and supply chain management.
 
 
