The 1950s streets of Bombay glow phosphorescently in the dark as Mitter Bedi bikes from his Colaba studio to the airport in Santa Cruz. He goes into the terminal and sets to work. First in is a clan saying their goodbyes to a London-bound son. Bedi shepherds them to an   logo, encourages them to relax and smile, and shoots. The airline's official photographer, Bedi spends his nights capturing that exotic species — the flying Indian.
 
 Air India, which has now been put on the block by the government, stood for something entirely different back then. The brand and product collaborated to give travellers the 'magic carpet service', in the words of Bobby Kooka, Air India's commercial director and creator of its 'Maharaja'.
 
 Passengers arrived in style, in Chantilly lace saris, sky-high bouffants, double-breasted suits and Bond Street brogues. First-timers came with families, with garlands and auspicious coconuts for a safe crossing. "People were photographed at the airport because flying at the time was so rare," says Sarla Bedi, Mitter's wife, "The photographs would later appear in newspaper supplements and families who desired a copy would have to get it from the newspaper."
 In the early '70s, travel writer Gustasp Irani made his first trip to the US on Air India. "My sister moved to the States, and I was sent a free Economy ticket. Even there people dressed up, and I remember wondering how the scruffy guy next to me managed to get in!'
 
 First-time fliers were initiated into AI etiquette with an illustrated booklet called 'Better Acquainted', which dwelled on topics like dress-code, ticket cancellation, bathroom manners, and baggage allowance. Sample this: 'When you fly with us, it is not necessary to dress like Trader Horn or Theodore Roosevelt on the eve of a visit to the Dark Continent. A safari has its points but mountains of bedding, snack-bite (sic) ointment and Man Friday at your elbow are not required." 
 
 Irani travelled light, with no more than $8 in foreign exchange. So when a trolley selling miniature bottles of alcohol rolled past, Irani had to glumly watch it pass. "I only managed a drink when we were given a voucher, after stopping to refuel in Frankfurt," he says.
 
 Naturally, the red carpet was laid thicker in First Class where the water for scotch cascaded from silver carafes. A 1960s First Class menu on the   707 was a roll-call of the finest: for hors d'oeuvres, caviar Malossol sur glace (Malossol caviar on ice) and pate de foie gras Strasbourg (Strasbourg goose liver paste); entrees included filet mignon. There was a generous cheese platter, and vermouth, sherry and champagne to wash it down. Today, their equivalents are shahi paneer, baby corn korma and palak kofta. Prawn, lamb and chicken are now available only on long-haul flights. Domestic passengers travelling short distances in Economy have been force-fed vegetarianism to ostensibly help Air India economise.
 
 "Food was an important element of our service," says Firdausi Jussawalla, former deputy commercial director with the airline. "We had chefs from Centaur hotels (owned by AI's subsidiary Hotel Corporation of India) and the   help plan the menu," he says.
 
 The now-much-travelled Gustasp Irani recalls how people lit up their cigarettes as soon as the No Smoking sign went off, which was even before the seatbelt sign went off! If you ran out of sticks, you could buy a carton on board. His sister was an air hostess till she got married (as was the rule until the late '70s), and he remembers the time   was on the flight. The chairman (and founder) of the airline called his sister and told her to convey a message to the pilot: 'You were six minutes too long on the runway'. 
  
 From the '50s to the '70s you travelled Air India in equal parts for the flight and the destination, unlike today, when most airlines are a purgatorial means to an end. "As a passenger you felt so welcome and wanted," says Bobby Sista, who helmed Sista Advertising until the '90s.
 
 Air India's fleet was growing; having distinguished itself as the world's first all-jet airline in June 1962, a decade later in 1971 it acquired its first Jumbo Jet, the Boeing 747. Sara Kapoor (name changed) joined Air India that year. It was the movie life for young people at the time, a chance to travel the world and live in posh hotels, and shop abroad.
 
 These air hostesses were a glamorous set, some even featured in consumer product ads. A promotional film from 1962 called them 'shimmering shepherdesses' and showed them gliding down the aisle in their silks, offering passengers hot towels and boiled candy. "Most of the passengers flying Air India in the '60s and '70s were businessmen, film stars, or people travelling to meet relatives," says Kapoor.
 
 Meanwhile, on his return journey from America, Gustasp Irani had about as much luck as on his outward trip. "The Air India flight had stopped in Delhi. My co-passenger, being a domestic traveller, wasn't allowed to buy a whiskey. He requested me to buy two for him, which I did, thinking he'd let me have one. What he did, though, was down the first in one gulp, and then nurse the second."
 
 
