KOZHIKODE: The arrest of  , a key figure in the terror network of the  , is a major breakthrough for the investigating agencies as he could spill the beans on other fugitive terrorists.

 Shuhiab was arrested from   on Tuesday night after he was deported from Dubai where he has been living for the past nine years. Shuhaib hails from Kodinhi in Malappuram district and was a SIMI activist at the PSMO College, Thirurangadi.
 
 His name first figured in the confession of E T Sainudheen alias Sathar Bhai, who was arrested in 2009 for his alleged connection with bomb blasts at various places in India. “We have issued look out circular on Shuhaib, who is the eighth accused in the case related to the recovery of pipe bombs from Koomankallu in Malappuram district in 1995,” said a police officer. Sainudheen is the co-accused in the case.
 
 Sainudheen had told the police that Shuhaib, who was in Dubai, used give financial help to him. It was Shuhaib who provided money to Sainudheen to set an electrical shop at  . In December 2007, Shuhaib called Sainudheen from Dubai and told that a person will come to meet him at Kuttippuram.
 
 Sainudheen went to the railway station and received the person mentioned by Shuhaib. They held a meeting at a lodge in Kuttippuram and discussed various issues faced by Muslims in India. Later, Sainudheen realised the person sitting before him was Riyaz Bhatkal, the leader of the terror outfit Indian Mujahideen.
 
 Riyaz wanted Sainudheen, who is an expert in electronics, to devise integrated chips (IC) to be used as timer devices in bombs. Riyaz said the   wanted to avenge the killing of Muslims in Gujarat riots in 2002. It is alleged that the timer devices made by Sainudheen were used for the Ahmedabad blasts in 2008.
 
 “Shuhaib is a senior leader of the Indian Mujahideen, almost in the same rank of Riyaz Bhatkal. He was link between the senior leaders of the IM who are operating in the Gulf countries and the foot soldiers in Kerala” said the police officer.
 
 Shuhaib is being questioned by senior officers from different branches of the intelligence. He is likely to be handed over to Gujarat police in the coming days.
 
