NEW DELHI:  ,   and   have maximum listeners to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s radio programme,  , and Manipur registered highest awareness for the programme, followed by Assam and Rajasthan.
 
    had the lowest awareness, followed by Arunachal Pradesh. People wanted the PM to talk about respect to parents, social inequality, pollution, government control of jobs in private sector, farm subsidies and heavy fees charged by private colleges.
  
  The PM’s ‘selfie with daughter’ episode, chit chat with Obama and plea to families to not pressure children to score high in board exams were most popular episodes. These were findings of a detailed survey conducted by the All India Radio’s Audience Research Wing on how the nation reacts to Mann Ki Baat.
  
  The survey had a sample size of 6,000 and was conducted between January and March in all 30 states by a team of 600 enumerators. The report, exclusively with ET, was submitted to the Centre recently.
  
  It said that two out of 10 Indians were assured listeners of Mann Ki Baat.   officials said a sample of 200 households (100 in rural and 100 in urban) were selected from 30 states.
  
  Further, a sample of 200 households drawn from 10 villages and 10 urban wards were put in place, spreading the sample across men and women of different age groups and professions.
  
  Respondents choice of themes also included SC/ST reservation, government regulation of salary structure in private organisations, Kashmir, traditional medicine, communal violence, importance of Indian festivals, desi sports, women safety, standards for packaged food, population control, superstitions, infrastructure, river water disputes and child labour.
  
  Some asked the PM to request doctors to take up rural medical practice and encourage parents to induce children into Indian classical arts.
  
  “When we hear the country’s PM talking to us, we develop faith in him. Mann Ki Baat is becoming har mann ki baat. It encourages people in villages to start talking about toilets and building them,” said a listener in Bhopal.
  
  The episode, ‘Daughters have made the country proud in Rio Olympics’ was a hit among people in rural areas while the one on Startup India found favour with people in urban areas.
  
  The episode that dealt with doing away with interviews for group B, C, and D posts in central government, farmer issues and one on Kargil Vijay Diwas were also popular, apart from the one where PM made a plea to people to use Khadi products.
  
  “On an average, around 4 per cent audiences were impressed with the programme that account for roughly 40 million listeners for each episode,” a senior official said. The survey began after the 23rd episode of Mann Ki Baat, which has completed 30 episodes.
  
  Geographically, western India has more listeners, followed by east, north, central, northeast and south. Percentage wise, Gujarat, tops the list, 79, followed by Maharashtra, 64.
  
  The study also found listenership of Mann Ki Baat better in rural areas of Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. The programme is yet to make significant impact in southern and northeastern states, except Assam and Manipur.
  
  Karnataka tops southern states, followed by Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh. The study also said Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Bihar topped the list in promoting Mann Ki Baat through print media. 
