NAGPUR: Bharatiya Jain Sangathana’s ( ) two-day workshop ‘Empowerment of Girls’ and ‘Smart Girls’ for girls between the age of 16 and 25 kicked off on Saturday at Shri Kundkund Swadhyaya Mandir, Itwari. 

 More than 30 girls attended the workshop which focused on their overall development. The workshop taught them how to overcome challenges in life.
 
 There was also a discussion on the struggles of women in the 21st century. Somat Lalla and Vimla Jain were invited as chief guest for the inauguration of the workshop.
 
 Naresh Jain, district president of BJS, said, “Today, safety of women is one of the major concerns of a civilized society. We aim to make young girls self-dependent, self-reliant and give them power to write their own future. We will consider ourselves lucky even if one girl learns applies everything she learnt here in her life.”
 
 Vimla said, “With the advancement in science and technology, everyone is engrossed in the world of social media at the cost of real knowledge. Lack of awareness about news is very prevalent in today’s world. Most of the children fail to understand that knowledge cannot be found on social media. The most important lessons in life are learnt through experiences.”
 
 Kiran Mundra, the master trainer of the workshop, said, “Girls are very vulnerable between the age of 16 and 25. They are pressurized by family and friends. BJS main priority is to help girls gain confidence so that they can present themselves with dignity. We will discuss topics like self-awareness, communication skills, self-protection, confidence building and how to deal with bullying.”
 
 Anand Jain, secretary, BJS, said, “We are very excited with the turnout of girls. Parents have welcomed the initiative to guide their daughters during the adolescent years. We also have a workshop for the parents of the girls on Sunday. They will discuss parenting challenges and we will guide them to improve communication with their daughters.”
 
 Lalit Jain, organizer of the workshop said, “Participants of the workshop belong to different communities and our main goal is to make the girls understand the fact they can achieve anything if they work hard and believe in themselves.”
 
 ends
 
 
