He’s still wallowing in the critical acclaim his recent film, 
 , received from foreign media, while getting ready for the release of two of his much talked about films — 
  and 
 . But it was clear that   is as grounded as ever when CT caught up with him when he was in town recently to shoot for a Bengali film. Strolling around Dalhousie and sipping bharer cha, the actor told us about his Kolkata connection and lots more. Excerpts:

 
 
 (Smiles) Yeah, I know! It feels great! Hotel Salvation is a different kind of movie, which is very close to my heart. I feel it’s a great film; I’m just waiting for the audience to review my performance.
 
 
 
 Yes, since Indians are more receptive towards good content. But I wish more such films are made. I think this movement has just started; there’s a long way to go. In India, audience tastes vary region to region, and to reach all over with good content, a production house needs a lot of money. A film like 
  — a Marathi film that was well received all over India — is rare. In fact, such content-oriented film are rare in India but quite common abroad. Movies that are considered unconventional here, are mainstream there.
 
 
 
 I swear I’ll not act in any of these if each fan deposits `100 in my bank account every month. Jokes apart, these films fuel my kitchen and also help me experiment with low-paying movies like Sunrise and Hotel Salvation. After all, I have to pay my bills too (smiles).
 
 
 
 At this juncture of my life, I like to spend more time with my family. I want to be choosy and I’m a little skeptical about films these days. The makers of 
  got in touch with me and I decided to go for the narration. Lina Ganguly narrated the story and it really moved me. I always like stories about reconciliation, as I’ve somehow gone through the same in my life. So, I gave my nod. The movie involves a lot of reshareshi between two families and religions. You know, the guys I hated most in school, I love them the most now. And being an actor, I realised I could reproduce those emotions the moment I hear ‘action’. It also a great pleasure to work with brilliant actresses like   and Aparajita. In fact, Paoli reminds me of Suchitra Sen.
 
 
 
 When I am teaching, it makes me feel that I’m helping someone. When I am acting, I’m doing it for myself. I wish teaching earned you a little more money; I’d have loved to teach more.
 
 
 
 Oh no, you are not going to get a headline from this (laughs). They all are amazing and I’d like to work with all of them again and again.
 
 
 
 
 n looks very interesting. I’m happy to see people are finally making such great women-centric movies. I don’t believe in Women’s Day, Father’s Day, Mother’s Day kind of stuff, but it’s definitely the time to talk about the real problems of patriarchal societies. India is a country where women are not given the equal space and respect they deserve. Could you think of a 
  to be made 10 years ago? Women’s issues have become mainstream and the credit for that goes to independent films. Moreover, some women directors are doing brilliant work.
 
 
 
 I was born and brought up in Assam’s Goalpara, where everyone understands Bengali. I’ve known the culture so closely. I grew up with Bengali magazines like Desh, Shuktara and stories of detective Dipak Chatterjee. (After a pause) Oh that reminds me, I was wondering, why isn’t anyone making any movies on Dipak Chatterjee?
 
 
 
 Oh, don’t ask me! My first visit to Kolkata was in 1975. I used to come to watch plays here. I’ve watched Swapan Mitra, Utpal Dutta here. Kolkata has inspired the actor in me. It’s the one and only city in the country that has retained its charm. Its beautiful old buildings are yet to be broken down to make way for a concrete jungle. The city has that emotional vibrancy that makes you stand tall and say, ‘Amader Kolkata’. Outsiders feel a sense of belonging here. In Delhi or Mumbai, you ask someone an address, and they won’t even entertain you. But here, people start arguing to decide on the shortest and cheapest route you can take to your destination! Now, that’s Kolkata to me!
