HYDERABAD: With the opposition political parties unitedly taking on the ruling party-backed trade union in the   (SCCL) elections, the TRS is leaving no stone unturned in order to ensure victory.

  Towards that end, two deputy chief ministers, half a dozen ministers and dozens of MPs, MLAs and MLCs have been deployed to woo the workers and swing their votes in favour of their union.
 
  Never in the past have these elections generated so much political heat. 
 
 Apart from elected representatives, TRS has sent more than a dozen teams to monitor the election campaign of the TRS-affiliated Telangana Boggu Ghani Karmika Sangham (TGBKS).
 
 Though there are over 15 trade unions, the main contenders in these elections are the TGBKS and the common candidate of opposition trade unions.
 
 Slated to be held on October 5, the elections is being termed as the semi-final for general elections in 2019. 
 
 In a quest to prove people are with it and that it will be the pink party which will romp home in 2019 polls, TRS wants to ensure a thumping victory for TGBKS.
 
 Interestingly, the TDP, which cannot sail in same boat as arch rival, is officially backing the AITUC, which in effect would mean a combined opposition.
 
 Finding itself in a tough fight, the TRS has roped in several splinter groups from rival unions in the last one week. 
 
 More than, 2000 workers have pledged their support to the TGBKS which is led by Nizamabad MP K Kavitha. 
 
 Efforts are on to lure second level leaders from AITUC, INTUC, HMS and BMS with attractive offers.
 
 “If the TRS is confident of its performance and good governance, how will it explain the mass dinners it is organising and the huge amount of li quor and money it is distributing,?" questioned T-JAC chief  , who is campaigning in support of AITUC.Joining him in the campaign on Tuesday were TDP working president Revanth Reddy and Congress leaders Batti Vikramarka and D Sridhar.
 
 Deputy CMs   and   completed one round of campaign on Tuesday. 
 
 On their part, ministers Etala Rajender, Tummala Nageswara Rao, Jogu Ramanna, Indrakaran Reddy and   met committee members in order to win the confidence of the workers.
 
 The TRS is trying to swing the votes in its favour by promising the workers that the state government will,before Diwali, issue orders granting jobs to dependents of SCCL workers.
 
