BBMP signed a deal to start a  , but the project is yet to generate even a single unit of energy
 
 When garbage started oozing out of the city’s pores, and the stink made international headlines, the   (BBMP) entered into a pact with a private firm to  . Eager to demonstrate its technique, the   and pumped in funds too.
 
 This was 12 years ago.
 
 Since the project was announced then, neither the BBMP nor the private firmhas generated any unit of power. Stumbled by the colossal loss of resources, the House Committee on Public Sector undertakings has now summoned BBMP officials over the misuse of public money.
 
 The House Committee that met on Tuesday over the issue has resolved to summon BBMP Commissioner and officials overlooking the management of solid waste disposal to testify before the committee next week over the wrong doings. The Comptroller Auditor General too identified lapses in the implementation of the project in their audit of the performance of various public sector undertakings. Initially, the committee had questioned the Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Limited (KREDL) over the lapses. However, on knowing that the KREDL has not paid any money and facilitation was done by BBMP, the committee resolved to summon BBMP.
 
 Confirming this decision, Aravind Limbavali, MLA from Mahadevapura and member of the committee, said, “Does it require 12 years to generate power from garbage as decided when the MoU signed in 2005? Previously, we had fought against the company and directed the BBMP to blacklist it as they have failed to execute the project and thus showcasing the city in poor light. However, later the state government showed some consideration and facilitated the company’s work by extending the deadline. Despite such considerations, the company has failed to generate any power.
 
 The BBMP has paid the money in full and sanctioned land for the project. We have information the company even pledged the land belonging to BBMP to raise loan for the project. At the outset the entire responsibility is on BBMP as it has paid the public’s money and hence we have summoned them to explain over the lapses. Based on their testimony, we will recommend the government about future action.”
 
 Sources in the Energy department told Bangalore Mirror that   assisted the project by granting Rs 10 crore while the total cost of the project was Rs 70.33 crore. “In March 2011, the project evaluation committee observed that necessary equipment like dioxin mitigation systems had not been installed and stated that SGRRL must complete the work without which the project will not be considered as commissioned,” an official revealed.
 
 However, SGRRL contended that equipment for mitigation of pollutants was not envisaged in the original DPR and that such additional equipment required additional outlay of Rs 19.40 Cr.
 
 “The project monitoring committee agreed to give financial assistance of Rs 10.50 cr by raising the money from KREDL, BBMP and Bescom. However, the KREDL did not release the money citing pending concurrence from MNRE. By February 2014, the developers said that they had spent Rs 73 crore on the project and that an additional Rs 15 crore was required to complete the project,” another official from KREDL said.
 
 “Today, the unscientific dumping of unprocessed MSW at Mandur has invited public protests and landfill has been closed. We, who represent the area, know what has been happening at the locality and how people have been reacting over the issue. So we have summoned BBMP officials to explain on the lapses,” Limbavali said.
 
 WE remember
 
 
 * In 2005, BBMP entered into an agreement with Bengaluru-based Srinivasa Gayathri Resources Recovery Limited (SGRRL) to set up an integrated Waste-to-Energy project at Mandur village on the outskirts of Bengaluru
 
 * As per the agreement, BBMP would supply 1,000 tonnes of MSW a day to the site and provide land required for the project (35 acres)
 
 * The project envisaged setting up an 8 Mw power plant for energy recovery through controlled burning and landfill facility for inert waste
 
 * It was to be commissioned in 20 months from the date when the site was handed over
 
