MADURAI: The big deficit left by northeast monsoon has had a huge impact on agriculture in Madurai district this samba season with cultivation taken up only in 36,000 out of the usual 90,000 hectares. This was revealed by district collector   at the drought review meeting which was also attended by several state ministers here on Thursday. 

 He said the monsoon, which usually brought copious rain to meet the district's irrigational as well as drinking water needs, had failed this year. The district's average rainfall during the northeast monsoon was 407 mm, but this year only 215 mm was received. November usually brought the highest rainfall of the season — around 147.60 mm — but this year it shrunk to just 12.39 mm. 
 
 Contingency plans have been drawn up to meet the drinking water needs of the local bodies including  , municipalities, town panchayats and panchayats. Some of them like Usilampatti have been marked as critical. 
 
 The collector said that even out of the cultivated area of 36,000 hectares there were chances of the yield getting affected due to the deficit rainfall. 
 
 Paddy cultivation is usually taken up in 43,000 hectares this season, but only 6,083 hectares had seen the crop and that too predominantly using well irrigation. Ministers R B Udayakumar and Sellur K Raju, MLA V V Rajan Chellappa were among those who attended the meeting. 
 
 The collector pointed out that there were different parameters to declare a place ‘drought-affected', including rainfall, percentage of crop, crop damage and soil moisture. Minister Udayakumar said that a careful assessment of the ground reality would be conducted in the district with immediate effect and report submitted in two days. 
 
 Monitoring officer for the district   said that the animal husbandry department should also assess the cattle situation and fodder availability to draw up plans to meet the requirements.
 
 The ministers visited about 10 per cent of the affected villages on Thursday evening where they got a first-hand view of the crop situation. At least five sites were to be identified in each of the affected areas for specific crops from where samples would be inspected by the officials. 
 
  officials told the ministers that alternate cropping of pulses had been taken up by farmers on their directions in November when the monsoon showed signs of failure. However, 90 per cent of these crops had also been affected by the deficit rainfall.
 
 BITING REALITY
 
 Total designated area of cultivation for all crops: 96,000 hectares
 
 Area that was cultivated this season: 36,000 hectares.
 
 Regular paddy cultivation in 43,000 hectares.
 
 Area in which paddy was cultivated: 6,083 hectares.
 
 Normal rainfall for district in November: 147.60 mm
 
 Rainfall received in November 2016: 12.39 mm
 
 Average rainfall for district in northeast monsoon: 407 mm
 
 Rainfall received in NE monsoon in 2016: 215 mm.
 
