NEW DELHI: “Corruption is worse than prostitution. The latter might endanger the morals of an individual, the former invariably endangers the morals of the entire country.” This remark by an Austrian writer Karl Kraus made its way to a recent judgment by a   in a corruption case. Fifteen years after the case was lodged, the court found a former joint director of the corporations, two civic officials and a property dealer guilty of corruption and sentenced them to four years’ jail.

 “Considering the nature of offence, no lenient view can be taken against the convicts. The convicts — public servants Kundan Lal, Ram Charan Kamal and Shankar Sahni — held an extremely powerful position and they were to charter the course of destiny of deserving poor JJ dwellers by allotting plots to them,” said   (PC Act/ACB) Hemani Malhotra.
 
 The court further noted that the public servants did it to satisfy their “ill motives” and to earn illegal wealth for themselves. “Convict property dealer R S Sandhu joined hands with them to deprive the rightful owners of their rights to possess plots against their jhuggi,” observed the court.
 
 Lal was the then joint director of the corporations’ JJ Slum department and head of lock committee whereas Kamal and Sahni were members.
 
 Special judge Malhotra said that Kraus’ quote was “an insight” to a corrupt society. “With power comes the responsibility is a proverb which needs no explanation....We as citizens of India are under a moral obligation to crush the ugly head of corruption so that it may not raise its head again,” said the court.
 
 In April 2001, the anti-corruption branch (ACB) received a complaint alleging that officials, including the convicts from the Slum and JJ Department, corporations were indulging in malpractices with the help of unscrupulous property dealers.
 
 Accordingly, all accused were chargesheeted by ACB for committing offences punishable under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act and offences of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy for having allegedly misused their official positions. They were accused of getting allotted 28 alternative plots to property dealers on the basis of bogus ration cards, identity cards — purportedly issued by the Delhi administration and corporations — and bogus surveys, conducted with respect to the 28 fictitious JJ dwellers resulting into an “unlawful pecuniary” gain of Rs 10.92 lakh.
 
 The court noted that the provisional allotment of plots to the 28 fictitious JJ dwellers, who were moved from Gautam Puri- I to Bhalswa on provisional basis, was cancelled by then commissioner of corporations in 2001 itself.
 
 While handing over the jail term, the court also slapped each of them with fines amounting to Rs 1.75 lakh.
 
 
