In the midst of controversy over   chief Gen Bipin Rawat's statement that stone-pelters in J&K would be dealt with firmly if they come in the way of anti-militancy operations, minister of state in PMO   has said it only reflected the sensitivity of the forces to protecting the lives of innocent people. In an interview to TOI, the minister accused   of twisting the remark for narrow political gains. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 Those who have questioned the credibility of our forces are committing a sin, which has no redemption. The jawans are sacrificing their lives just to ensure that we carry on with our routine. As far as BJP is concerned, it is wrong to say that the party is boasting about the surgical strikes. Rather, we are taking pride in the achievement of our armed forces.
 
 
 
 The nation is eternally indebted to the Indian Army and paramilitary forces. The Army chief 's statement is certainly not political but inspired by a great degree of sensitivity .It is not, as some Congress leaders are alleging, a `chunauti' (warning), rather the `chinta' (concern) that when an anti-militancy operation is under way , innocent lives should not be lost. Therefore, the Army chief has appealed to the people not to let innocent boys get misguided and come in the line of fire during countermilitancy operations.
 
 
 
 The question should be addressed to Congress, which claims to be a national party even though numerically it is no more so. Congress should explain if it is now looking at a bleak future and therefore falling for the language of the separatists to build a certain constituency . If so, it doesn't augur well for a healthy democracy , not even for Congress. The Congress leadership, including Ra hul Gandhi, should tell the nation whether the party as a whole is in agreement with the views perpetuated by some of its leaders who have gone public against the Army chief.
 
 
 
 The common man in Kashmir is now wiser than ever before, particularly the youth... they have now begun to see through the chicanery of those espousing `Azadi'. These youths are now are connected with the outer world. Certainly the youth of Kashmir will not intend to be deprived and left behind or fooled by the doublespeak which has been part of the culture of Kashmiri leadership.
 
 
 
 Most of the Kashmir-centric parties over the years, particularly the party which is in opposition, have deve loped the art of changing their stance when they are out of power. We have two former CMs (Omar and  ) ... who used to swear by India and Jammu and Kashmir as its integral part. Now, they have gained new enlightenment, and started questioning the status of Kashmir, its relationship with India and also the role of the Army.
 
 
 
 The alliance is based on common minimum programme which is primarily on the plank of development and the two parties have come together to make the best use of the enormous and incredible developmental schemes launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This is one of the best opportunities for the state to forge ahead. There is a solemn agreement to disagree on certain issues, which often happens in a coalition government. It was the mandate of the people. 
 
