LUDHIANA: Coming down heavily on   (AAP) and its supremo  , Sharmistha Mukherjee -daughter of President   and a panellist of Congress party's media cell -termed the Delhi chief minister a “failure and a manipulator“.

 Addressing students of Kamla Lohtia College, here on Friday , Sharmistha said, “ After fooling Delhiites, Kejriwal is now making false promises to people of Punjab. He is saying that he'll uproot the drug problem from Punjab, whereas his government has failed to tackle the same problem in Delhi. Thousands of street children in Delhi have become drug addicts.“
 
 “In fact, the AAP government has opened 399 new liquor vends in a span of 1 year in Delhi. And, Kejriwal talks of making Punjab “Nashamukt“. The AAP government is not serious in tackling the drug problem. Out of the total budget kept for drug de-addiction, which runs in to lakhs, they have spent merely Rs 16,000 in little over a year in Delhi. They have themselves admitted it to a RTI query ,“ she said.
 
 During her interaction, she warned the students against both BJP and AAP , urging the youngsters to vote responsibly in the forthcoming Punjab elections.
 
 However, her main target remained the Delhi CM.
 
 “Look at his (Kejriwal) double-standards. On one hand, he is doing rallies in Punjab and boasting that AAP government has done a lot in Delhi, and on the other, he is always ranting that Modi is not letting him do anything in Delhi.
 
 “He should decide once and for all whether he has done any work or not! In this fight between state and the Centre, residents of Delhi are at the receiving end as all development work has come to a halt,“ the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) spokesperson added.
 
 Sharmistha also cautioned Punjab voters that Kejriwal hasn't fulfilled his promi ses in Delhi yet.
 
 “He (Kejriwal) has promised that he'll provide 25 lakh jobs in Punjab. He made a similar kind of promise in Delhi before coming to power and is far from fulfilling it. As per information given out by his own government, 1 lakh 85 thousand people registered in the Delhi employment exchange from the start of 2015 till October 18 last year. Incredibly , the AAP government has given employment to only 274 people. Whereas, Kejriwal's promise was to provide 10 lakh jobs,“ she stated.
 
 She also accused the incumbent Delhi government of splurging on advertisements.
 
 Sharmistha also met local Congress leaders and conducted a press conference at residence of district congress committee president Gurpreet Gogi.
 
