NAGPUR: Rajya Sabha member and farmers activist   on Monday led an agitation in front of State Bank of India’s zonal office here to protest against SBI chairperson Arundhati Bhattacharya’s stated position against waivering of distressed farmers’ bank dues.

 Shetty leads the Swabhimani Shetkari Party which has good presence in sugarcane growing belt of western Maharashtra especially around Kolhapur. Though his party is an ally of the   and constituent of NDA, it is up in arms against the state government on the issue of giving relief to farmers by way of loan waiver.
 
 Political leaders of all hues and farm activists have not taken kindly to Bhattacharya’s remarks last week that repeated loan waiver if allowed would lead to farmers getting into habit of defaulting on bank dues expecting the relief. The protesters led by Shetty burned an effigy of SBI chairperson and condemned her for opposing relief at a time when farmers are in deep trouble and driven to suicide because of wrong government policies, bad market conditions and unsuitable weather.
 
 Talking to TOI, Shetty said the SBI’s chief’s remarks were insensitive. “Till date the farm loans have been waived only twice, one time up to a small extent by the VP Singh government. In 2006, though the   government claimed to have passed on a Rs71,000 crore of farmers’ dues, the actual dues waived accounted for at only Rs52,000 crore,” said Shetty. He cited the reply by finance minister Arun Jaitley in parliament to a question on the issue.
 
 “These sort of remarks coming from country’s largest bank are shocking. The SBI happily offered huge loan to   for purchasing mines in Australia. Industry and business have failed to repay Rs6 lakh crores to banks. Yet, she thinks farmers do not need any relief. She should know that big defaulters like Vijay Mallya leave the country to escape repayment, but poor farmer has no other way but to end life when he is not able to repay loan,” said Shetty.
 
 The farm leader was in Vidarbha to express solidarity with farm activists who observed a day’s fast in memory of Yavatmal farmer Sahebrao Karpe of Chilgawhan village in Mahagaon thesil who committed suicide along with family on March 19, 1986 triggering a wave of farm suicides that remains unabated till date.
 
 “The government only understands language of numbers. We do not have that in parliament or state Assembly. We have to mount public pressure,” said Shetty.
 
  when asked why he was agitating publicly though he was with the BJP-led government at Centre and in state.
 
 
