Shiv Sena’s Nanded legislator Hemant Patil and   Mira-Bhayander legislator Narendra Mehta have ensured that the bribe-givers were arrested under the Prevention of Corruption Act. 

 In the first incident, the Panchayat Raj committee was on a routine visit to Dhule district for the inspection of a zilla parishad school, particularly the status of the nutritious food plan for schoolchildren. Patil, a member of the committee, found that there was a huge difference in the foodgrain mentioned in the school register and the actual stock. 
 
 Patil logged the stock position in the school register and brought it to the notice of BJP legislator Prakash Barsakale, who is the committee chairman. Later, zilla parishad deputy chief officer Tushar Mali approached Patil with a request not to lodge a complaint and or raise the issue in the legislature. Patil approached the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Mali was arrested while offering a bribe of Rs 1.5 lakh to Patil in the state guesthouse. Similarly, businessman Radheshyam Kutaria was arrested while offering a bribe of Rs 25 lakh to Mehta. Kutaria had secured a contract for operating buses in the Mira-Bhayander area and the proposal was opposed by Mehta. 
 
 
 
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and minister of state for home Ranjeet Patil were left red-faced after an non-cognisable offence was registered by the Akola police against Ranjeet’s father, Vithal, for assaulting a school peon. The footage of the incident went viral. Vithal runs a school in Akola district and was at loggerheads with the Deshmukh family, which manages another school in the neighbouring village. Recently, Vithal found that while the Deshmukh school has been derecognised, it was admitting students. Vithal took up the matter with the school education department but there was no response. When Vithal visited the school and found that the school was admit students, he lost his temper and slapped the peon. Ever Ranjeet has been inducted into the cabinet, he has been at the receiving end for “dismal performance” and different names recorded in the electoral register.
 
 
 
 
 From the series of incidents in the recent past, it appears that all is not well with the jail administration. A woman inmate was killed in the Byculla jail under mysterious conditions, a convict was killed by another prisoner in Yerawada jail. A woman jail official who was probing in to the death of the female inmate was removed from the investigation after she sent messages to garner support for the six jail staffers who have been arrested.
 
 In Nagpur, the CM’s home town, hardened criminals escaped from prison and a record number of cellphones were seized from the jail premises. A cellphone shop had opened inside the Nagpur jail. The CM had asked then DGP Praveen Dixit to probe into the state of affairs in the Nagpur Jail. No one knows if Dixit submitted a report. Sajjad Mogul, the convict in the Pallavi Purkayastha case, jumped parole in February 2016, and is yet to be traced. It’s time the CM overhauls the jail administration, said a former DGP.
 
