Nagpur: The three-day Vasantrao Deshpande Smriti Sangeet Utsav organized by South Central Zone Cultural Centre began with three presentations at Deshpande Hall on Sunday. Keeping with the tradition of giving stage to the winner of Youth   Contest, which was organized by the cultural centre last year, the first performance of the day was by Om Bongane.

 Bongane began with a bandish in raga Madhuwanti, ‘Torey gun gaaon shyam’ in vilambit lay and completed the presentation with another bandish, ‘Shyam morey mandir aaye’ in drut lay. Though dotted with elaborate taan and alaap, the presentation lacked soul as not just a hoarse throat but the abysmal acoustics failed him this evening. His Sufi kalam ‘Aaye ri sakhi morey Khwaja’ was an improvement on his earlier rendition.
 
 The second presentation was an instrumental fusion performed by artistes from Nagpur. Avanindra Sheolikar on sitar, Aashish Sawoo on guitar, Shirish Bhalerao on violin and Sandesh Popatkar on tabla picked up raga Yaman for this evening’s performance. The fusion had a soothing quality but was short on wow moments. The last to take the stage was a maestro of Gwalior Kirana Gharana, Pt Vinayak Torvi who rendered a bandish in Miya Malhar.
 
 The low turnout of audience on a Sunday made it evident that the music fest was no crowd-puller this year. Describing the composition of the festival a good mix of young and old artistes, director of SCZCC EN Sajith told TOI, “At the programming meeting held to finalize the music fest, it was suggested that we should have upcoming, senior and local artistes. Pt Vinayak Torvi is an internationally acclaimed artiste who performed today. So the festival does have big names.”
 
 Monday will have a Carnatic vocal presentation by Dharini Veeraraghavan, followed by Hindustani vocal presentation by Pt Suhas Vyas. A Kathak recital by Anuradha Singh and Group will mark the closing of the day’s programme.
 
 Quotes with mugs: 
 
 It is a prestigious event of the city and much awaited too. This year, the festival does not boast of very big names. But it’s good that many young and upcoming artistes are featured this year
 
 Valmik Dhande | santoor player
 
 This is a twenty-five-year old event in this city and has seen performances of some of the top musicians in the country. But I am happy that this year local artistes too have been included. These artistes perform outside the city and it’s good if a stage is given to them here too
 
 Suchismita Sheolikar | vocalist
 
 There are many relatively lesser known names this year, but that does not mean that they are not great artistes. The festival may not pull crowds, but true music lovers will certainly be present
 
 Vrushali Deshpande | music lover
 
 
