LONDON:  , bathed in the afternoon sun, leaned in the direction of the Wall Street investment banker   on a break from his day job. The American, sparkling bald pate, whispered, made a point. The Croat nodded, deliberated and then added to the flow of conversation which was a constant through the 94-minute second-round encounter out on Court No.1.

 The question: How do you solve a problem like  ? World beater, dominator, who has a hit a sudden and rather dramatic slump. The 12-time major winner, whose world began to unravel on these courts 12 months ago, weeks after he became the holder of all four Grand Slam titles, has looked distant and disturbed on the tennis court in recent times. His play, still razor-sharp and returns rapier-like in patches, can go on the blink on a whim. Without word or warning.
 
 On Thursday the Serb put out Czech Adam Pavlasek, ranked 135, 6-2, 6-2, 6-1 to move into third round where he'll face Latvia's Ernest Gulbis, who shocked Argentine giant Juan Martin Del Potro. Djokovic, who went up early breaks in all three sets, was decisive in his shot-making, never taking his leg off the pedal against an opponent who idolizes him. In other second round matches, popular 13th-seed   knocked out Marcos Baghdatis of Cyprus 6-3, 6-2, 6-1; 15th-seed   of France beat Briton Kyle Edmund 7(7-1), 6-4, 6-4. Women's seventh-seed   of Russia beat compatriot Ekaterina Makarova 6-0, 7-5; ninth-seed Agnieszka Radwanska put out American   5-7, 7-6 (9-7), 6-3.
 
 Former world no.1 Mats Wilander, as mystified as anyone in tennis with Djokovic's distracted run of the last 12 months, said it was too early to say if the second-seed, whose ranking dipped to an eight year low of No.4, was back or not. The Swede, however, said he saw the 'keenness' back in Djokovic's play at  .
 
 Djokovic, soon-to-be a second-time father, has over the last year spoken about private issues and the pursuit of happiness even as there has been criticism and unfair comparisons about him in sections of the media. Most recently at Wimbledon by American legend  , who weighed the tennis star's issues with that of golfing great Tiger Woods' marital problems that sent his career in a tailspin.
 
 In his post-match conference Djokovic said he was back in the mode that took him to the top of his sport. "I'm already enjoying the process very much, especially in the last couple of months even though results haven't been up to the standard that I've had in the last seven-eight years," the second-seed said.
 
