NEW DELHI: Imagine this. You make a wonderful Test debut; one of the best. And then are made to wait six long years before playing the next one. This is what happened to Pat Cummins, whose repeated injuries constantly hurt his chances of making it to the Australian Test XI after that splendid debut he made against South Africa in 2011, where he returned with 6/79 in the second innings.

 1948 days later, Cummins, in almost a second debut of sorts, did everything right. He generated pace, reverse swing and picked up four of the six Indian wickets to fall, including that of their captain Virat Kohli cheaply. Cummins' 4/59 has been a key factor in India's struggle to get runs on the final session of the fourth day even as   responded with a splendid century to position his team to 360/6 at stumps on Day 3 in Ranchi, still behind Australia by 91 runs.
 
 Cummins was fast and extracted life from a surface that is getting tougher to bat on. He bowled a full length ball that drew Kohli onto the drive and manage a nick that was safely pouched and a snorter to send back R Ashwin. In between he removed Ajinkya Rahane too. Even with Pujara progressing well at the other end, Cummins and then Josh Hazlewood - chipped away. Hazlewood was finally rewarded when Karun Nair missed a sharp reverse-swinging ball that came back in from length outside off.
 
 Pujara's ton was his 11th in Tests, second against Australia following his hundred in Hyderabad during the 2013 Border-Gavaskar Trophy. He might have been unlucky to have missed out on the cherished three-figure mark during the second Test in Bengaluru but ensured he got there this time around. With a drive off Cummins he became the first Indian batsman in the series to do so. The importance of this knock can be determined by the fact that he held the innings together despite the exit of the other specialist batsmen. 
 
 Come to think of it, Pujara might have even been back in the dressing room by now, had it not been for Australia wasting their second review on  . During the 58th over of the day, Steve O'Keefe appeared to have hit Pujara in front of the stumps, and Smith chose to review the original not-out verdict by the umpire. However, the appeal was declined even though the replay suggested that the ball may have hit the pad and then bat.
 
 It was a typical Pujara knock. 407 minutes is how long he has been batting out there. He was batting when India finished Day 2 and remains India's biggest hope going into Day 4 if India are to get nearer to Australia's 451. Pujara, ever so solid in his technique, added 102 with Vijay, and extremely valuable 51 and 44 runs later with Rahane and Nair. It was almost as if he was meditating out there, watchfully taking note of the situation. The way he accelerated during the second session was remarkable. 
 
 Kohli, who walked out to bat after missing the last day and a half recuperating from a shoulder injury could score only 6 before Steven Smith pulled out an ace, introducing Cummins in the attack. Kohli edged him straight to his best friend Smith at second slip and that was that. Once again the Indian captain failed to get going in the series. 
 
 India were content to play the waiting game during the first session, led by Vijay, who celebrated his 50th Test with a 15th half-century. However, his wicket in the last over before lunch lifted Australia, who despite bowling well had nothing to show in the wickets column. In a period where runs appeared hard to come by, Vijay and Pujara endured a testing spell from the Australian bowlers and played out a quiet session for India. Both teams played out an absorbing session to say the least - determined bowling, resolute defence, soaking up pressure and then a late counterattack.
 
 The Ranchi pitch finally looked like assisting spin, just 24 runs scored by India in the first hour of the day with a few chances created. Hazlewood found early reverse and with the pitch starting to cack up,   made a few balls turn and bounce but Vijay and Pujara were up to the challenge.
 
 At the start, Pujara and Vijay seem to be following the old adage of giving the first hour of the day to the bowlers and then make merry; which is what happened in the last 30 minutes of the session. Vijay, seen practicing the sweep shot in the nets, applied the shot to collect two fours of Nathan Lyon. In between, he survived close shouts, a leg-before appeal that was reviewed but turned down courtesy an inside edge and later for a catch.
 
 India seemed to be making steady progress in the presence of Pujara and Rahane, their rescue pair from Bengaluru. But a lapse in concentration perhaps had Rahane playing an upper-cut that found the wicketkeeper. But then Pujara at the other end took over. Having scored at a strike rate touching 22 in the previous session, India's No. 3 scored fluently once he resumed after the lunch interval. The cover drives were well-timed and he played Lyon especially well, off the backfoot.
 
 The good news for India though is that Pujara is still out there and has looked unmoved. With Wriddhiman Saha partnering him and Ravindra Jadeja, India will fancy their chances of closing the gap on Australia's first-innings tally.
 
 
 India 360/6 (Pujara 130*, Vijay 82; Cummins 4/59), trail Australia 451 all out by 91 runs.
 
