AGRA: The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to rope in students’ parents to taste midday meals before they are served in schools to ensure stricter quality control. Parents of students of state government-run primary and junior high schools will taste the food for quality check on a regular basis. The basic education department will prepare a roster of parents for this purpose at each school.
 
  Officials said that so far, teachers have been monitoring the quality of food served in schools. The basic education department has also been conducting surprise inspections routinely to ensure that midday meals are nutritious and tasty. However, since parents are key stakeholders, the department has now decided to directly involve them in the process so that they can be assured of their children’s good health and provide feedback to the government in case if it is necessary.
  
  According to the plan, each school will have a panel of six parents, preferably mothers, which will be set up by the school management committee. Every day, the mother of at least one student will have to be present in school to check the quality of a midday meal by personally tasting it. Teachers and other officials will be available to take feedback.
  
  Girijesh Chaudhary, assistant director, basic education department, said, “The department has started working on the plan. Soon, the government will issue a formal directive in this regard. Basic education minister Anupama Jaiswal has asked officials to prepare for successful implementation of this plan. Soon, students will be served midday meals only after their mothers approve the food. The initiative will ensure strict quality control.”
  
  The midday meal scheme in UP covers more than 1.5 crore students from class I to VIII.
  
  According to the menu decided by the department, students will be served roti and soybean or roti and daal/vegetable on Monday, daal and rice on Tuesday, milk and vegetable khichdi on Wednesday, daal and roti on Thursday, khichdi on Friday and rice and mixed vegetables on Saturday. The meals will also have a seasonal fruit on some days.
