LUCKNOW: Village Nagla Chitey is situated at the intersection where   crosses National Highway-2--the highway links Kanpur, Etawah, Agra and Delhi--in Shikohabad. The strategic geographical location yielded in hefty compensation to villagers whose land was acquired for the expressway.

 There was a wave of prosperity as the money from the government ranged between Rs 800sq mt and Rs 8,000sq mt, depending on various parameters. However, there was a flip side that came to the fore once construction began. The 60-odd families which stay in the village realised that they would remain engulfed by busy highways on all sides.
 
 The slip road (ramp) which would connect NH-2 with the expressway extends all around the village already bound by NH-2 on one side. As NH-2 is also being widened from 4-lane to 6-lane, the existing access road to the village will be sealed in the coming months.
 
 “We have been struggling for six months to explain to the authorities that our lives will come to a standstill once Lucknow-Agra Expressway is fully complete. While designing the exit ramp, the engineers were not aware of the exact land setback which will be acquired while widening NH-2. It was in July that we told them that the present access road will not be available to us," said Mewaram, a resident of the village. "It took three more months to convince authorities about our misery. Had we not highlighted the problem, we would have been marooned like an island. UPEIDA and revenue officials have surveyed our location and have agreed to alter the design so that we will be able to access NH-2," said Naresh Baghel, a villager.
 
 The village will now get a 3 metre access road which will connect them with the service road of the widened NH-2.
 
 In the meantime, as motorcycles are allowed on the expressway, villagers are enjoying a newly opened avenue to visit the state capital. "I had to order invitation cards for my daughter's wedding. Earlier, we used to go to Agra for these things. This time, I was able to visit Aminabad in Lucknow. I got a much better card at the same rate," said Jaipal, another villager.
 
