NEW DELHI: The department of   will conduct an   at the   sanctuary by the month-end, which is expected to reveal the actual number and types of mammals and reptiles present there. 

 The census is a part of a 10-year   plan to monitor the changes taking place inside the sanctuary. Forest officials said that camera traps will be laid and 10 teams will be formed to map the species and their locations. 
 
 The census will spread over six to eight months and officials hope that it will present a clear picture on animals, including leopard and hyena, and their habitat.
 
 In addition, sand beds will be placed in different locations to record pugmarks. The teams formed will monitor these areas for a period of three months. They will ensure that the traps and equipment are placed in areas, which are often frequented by the animals, an official said.
 
 “We have already finalised the locations where the camera traps will be placed. More traps will be laid in sensitive areas and near waterbodies. Our teams will also ensure that same pugmark is not counted twice,” said a senior forest official.
 
 TOI had recently reported about pugmarks of a leopard family of three being spotted at Asola. Now, forest officials confirm they are a resident family of the sanctuary.
 
 “There have been instances where pugmarks of hyenas were also spotted. This census will present a clearer picture of the variety of species present inside the sanctuary and which of them are resident animals,” said the forest official, adding that it will take over three months to analyse the data, following which a detailed report will be prepared.
 
 Prior to this, no animal census had ever been conducted at the sanctuary and officials believe the findings will help them make ecological improvements. 
 
 The census will now be conducted every year to analyse the fluctuation in the number of species. The new plan will also focus on adding more grassland for herbivores and improving water retention in the sanctuary, officials said.
 
 
