Remember the satire video on YouTube, Panam Brammasmi, which went viral for its hilarious take on demonetisation? It was a humorous take on the troubles the common man faced during the cash crunch caused by demonetisation. The video was made by Coimbatore's  ,   -which made a series of six videos on the topic -Sellathu Sellathu, Don't Panic, Kola Pasiyilae Irukkaen, Kaalai Pozhuthin Kalakkathiley,   and Vallarasu Jayanthi. These videos hit out at the government's initiative, albeit in a hilarious manner. But surprisingly , the channel, which has been the talk of the state since then, has suddenly gone off air... it's been three days now.

 The buzz is that the last video uploaded by the satire group revolved around nationalism, and perhaps, that is what triggered this move. The Twitteratti was quick to take up cudgels, and went on to say how this has curtailed the freedom of speech right, and added that it should be revoked at the earliest.
 
 When CT got in touch with the channel's director K Rajeshwar, he said, “We have no idea why the channel has been blocked. We wrote to YouTube asking for an explanation, but we are yet to get a reply . I can understand if they found a particular video offensive and   it, but to block the entire channel is sad.“
 
 When asked about their last video, Chella, one of the lead actors of Chummanachiki, told us, “I am not sure if our last video triggered the move. We have not received any political pressure or threat from any one.“ Siva Chidambaran, the creative head of the channel, added, “Though we have faced criticisms for certain videos in the form of Facebook posts, we never expected our videos to be blocked. The morale of the entire team is down after the incident. We worked so hard on these videos, through which we wanted to represent the voice of the public. And YouTube was the only source through which our revenue was generated.Even if they free our channel in future (which they say is a rarity), there will be more restrictions on the content. We cannot launch a new channel with the same IP address either. We cannot attribute the reason for this ban on anyone or any thing, but we believe political pressure might be the culprit.“ 
  
 
 Rajeshwar added, “If they don't reply to our mail, we will have to continue posting our videos on our FB page. After all, we started our innings on Facebook, before switching to this channel.“ Sivachidambaran summed it up, “Unfortunately we cannot sustain with FB hits alone in the long run. We will need our viewers to pitch in as participants as well. We will need the support of the public like never before.“ 
 
