NEW DELHI: 2017 may turn out to be a year in which Indian   finally makes a move forward.

 Performances at major events, barring the  , have been pedestrian. And the   held up a mirror to the national federation which went back to the drawing board and brought back   as India coach. Having sized up the situation since taking over, Costantini says, “We need to avoid making the same mistakes we were making in the last seven years as we look ahead to 2020 Olympics.“
  
 The Italian was there to guide India to five medals in the 2010 CWG at home as the nation started warming up to the sport. But the curve seemed to have hit a plateau after that. “In seven years, the likes of   and Amit could have definitely done better. You had   going up and down.He broke into top 50 nut they could have done more. They still have the chance. There has to be eagerness to get better,“ the Italian lamented even as he finds a professional streak in the new generation. “The new generation is pushing a lot. There is more professionalism and the basic knowledge is there,“ he told TOI on Sunday .
 
 Costantini takes it upon himself to demonstrate the brand of   he wants his words to play and the upcoming Seamester ITTF World Tour India Open will give him the first indications of the impact of his work. The Open, the first World Tour event to be held in India, opens in the Capital on Tuesday .
 
 The Italian recently made headlines by telling the Indian paddlers to go the Chinese way and shed the European style they preferred. However, Kamal puts the state of Indian TT into perspective. “Massimo likes the Chinese way . But we have no style. We were dhobi ka kutta (washerman's dog). We neither had the power of European style nor the speed of the Asian style,“ Kamal said. “Even though we were the founders of the ITTF, as players we have just started to win CWG medals. We are still at the commonwealth level. Olympics is still a few more steps ahead,“ The 34-year-old star said.
 
 However, it's not just the Chinese brand of TT that Costantini talks about. He speaks about the system as a whole. “China has a strong hierarchy , given their communist history . They are following the same theory all over the country and they all work toward the same goal,“ the coach pointed out, adding, “ I am not saying we have to be the same. But we have to organize our elite players, local academies. We need to create a system where we can build trust. It's a slow process.“
 
 Kamal is looking forward to the India Open and hopes the TT league takes off.
 
 As both Costantini and Kamal look forward to improve rankings in the tournament as they prepare for the CWG and Asian Games next year, the organisation needs to improve simultaneously . “Players can't get better just like that. The system needs to get better organised. It will take time but it will happen ,“ Costantini left the practice arena in hope.
 
 
