KANNUR:   under Section 144 CrPC was clamped in Kasaragod district on Tuesday for a week following the  , Riyaz (30). Riyaz was found lying in a pool of blood with deep cuts on his neck in his room in the compound of the   near Old Choori. 

 The   (IUML) has demanded that the police should probe if there was a  . It was Abdul Aziz musaliyar, living in a room adjacent to the murdered teacher's room, who found the teacher's body and alerted the police. 
 
 He said he woke up at midnight hearing a scream and when he ventured to step out, stones were pelted at him forcing him to shut the doors of his room. He then rushed to the mosque through an internal corridor and raised an alarm.
 
  By the time local residents reached the spot, the assailants had escaped. It is suspected that more than two people were involved in the incident and that they escaped on a two-wheeler. Police said investigations were on and that CCTV cameras in the nearby areas would be examined. The cyber cell would also examine call records of mobile phones active in the nearby towers. A dog squad examined the spot. Local residents and IUML leaders said the teacher, who was from Coorg, had been working at the madrassa for the past nine years and no complaints were ever raised against him. "We don't want to point fingers at anyone but we see the incident as an attempt to create communal tension in the region and that angle should be thoroughly probed," said IUML leader and local MLA N A Nellikkunnu. 
 
 He also hit out at the police for taking the body directly to Coorg from Pariyaram Medical College after postmortem.
 
 "The police denied us our rights to pay homage to the slain man. They should have brought the body here. Instead, they took it to his native place," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, a harthal called by the IUML in the Kasaragod assembly constituency from 6 am to 6 pm was total. Though the police had claimed that steps would be taken to ensure that normal life would not be hit, in several places the harthal supporters blocked roads and vehicles. A special investigation team headed by Kannur crime branch SP A Sreenivas has been constituted to investigate into the murder. 
 
