PUNE: Injured, crammed and struggling to breathe. That is the   forced into   in the  .
The condition of hens can have an adverse effect on both the consumers as well as the  .
 
 A recent investigation by Animal Equality, an animal protection organisation in Pune, has revealed that the poultry industry was still using the illegal battery cages even though the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act prohibits their use.
 
 The organisation, which has worked in collaboration with Union governmnet's Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) in several projects in the past, had investigated some facilities in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Haryana between August and December 2016.
 
 Amruta Ubale, executive director of Animal Equality, said, "Investigations revealed that four to eight hens are crammed in a cage no bigger than the size of two A4 paper sheets. We found the birds stepping on each other in an attempt to find space to move. The birds also had bleeding, sore, cracked and deformed feet due to the wire floor of the cages."
 
 Overcrowded cages are usually stacked one above the other, causing urine and faeces to fall onto birds in lower cages.
 
 "Hens were missing their feathers and suffering from abrasions and skin irritations, probably due to the high concentration of ammonia from their litter. The litter was collected in huge piles underneath the stacked cages, and was disposed of only once every few weeks. This lack of timely disposal can lead to diseases among consumers and affect the mortality of birds," said Ubale.
 
 These cruel battery cages are widely in use despite section 11 (1) (e) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 prohibiting confining birds in battery cages and the AWBI's advisory to all states that directed the industry to phase out battery cages by 2017.
 
 "It is 2017 and still there is no sign of phasing out of these cages. All the countries within the European Union have banned battery cages. They are against our law and values. The state governments must step in and implement the ban," said Ubale.
 
