MUMBAI: A Malad couple caught   money at 30% interest to those in desperate need will stand trial under the  . A complaint was filed by a 33-year-old woman who was being forced to pay over Rs 3.80 lakh for a Rs 1 lakh loan availed in 2014. The sessions court rejected the couple’s plea for discharge from the case last Friday and held that the burden was on the accused to prove how such interest was permitted under their money-lending licence. 

 The magistrate court, which will conduct the trial, had framed the charges against Poonam Singh (33) and Arvind Singh (33) under section 384 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Maharashtra Money Lending Act on December 2, 2015. The couple had moved the sessions court for discharge from the case on January 5, 2016.
 
 The prosecution said that on June 27, 2014, a newspaper had published an advertisement about the availability of short-term loans. The complainant called up the number and sought an appointment. The woman visited the couple’s house at Palm Spring, Malad (W) on June 28, 2014. The prosecution said the couple verified the woman’s documents and said they would lend the money at an interest rate of 30% pm. It said the woman was in dire need of funds and hence availed of the loan. But when the accused began to demand the exaggerated figure, the woman could not pay up. She alleged that the accused began to threaten her. The woman then lodged a complaint with the Malad police. The prosecution said investigations revealed that two more persons who had allegedly availed such loans were also being harassed. The cops filed a chargesheet in the case. 
 
 The defence told court that the couple had a licence issued on August 26, 2013, which was valid till July 31, 2014. 
 
 But the court pointed out that it was yet to be ascertained if the licence was genuine. It also questioned the right of the accused to extort money. The court held that there was no illegality in framing charges against the accused.
 
 
