COIMBATORE: The acreage under sugarcane in Tamil Nadu has come down from 3.71 lakh hectares to 2.07 lakh hectares in the last one decade, director of the   Anu   said here on Monday.

 “It is because of various reasons, including the fact that the popular Co 86032 variety is slowly losing potency and yield,” she said, while speaking at the international symposium, ‘sugarcane Research Since Co 205: 100 Years and Beyond – SUCROSYM 2017’.
 
 Sugarcane farming and industry is at a critical juncture, she said. “With the acreage, sugarcane production has come down. It has dropped from 471 lakh tonnes per year to 172 lakh tonnes per year in the last one decade or so. The yield per hectare has also come down from 115 tonnes to 83 tonnes in the last decade,” she said.
 
 The dire situation has led to the State government allocating funds in the budget to increase the acreage under sugarcane by 40,000 hectares. “We plan to distribute the land evenly among the 46 sugar mills in the State. We have identified the land for it and will begin transplanting in them from next week,” said George. “We also plan to promote micro irrigation among farmers,” she said.
 
 The call to increase funding for research and promotion of newer varieties of sugarcane was also echoed by the president of the South India Sugar Mills Association-TN, Coimbatore, Palani G Periasamy. “Sugar mills, both public and private, have incurred a loss of Rs 1,300 crore in the last three years due to extreme droughts and low prices,” he said. “This year is the worst because the supply of sugarcane has come down from 25 lakh tonnes a year to just six lakh tonnes a year, which is hardly 20%, because of water shortage. This means our factories are also underutilised. On top of this, the sucrose content in the cane is going down slowly. We need more research to come up with newer varieties, which give higher yield and have more sucrose content,” he said. 
 
 The SISMA-TN president also said that the government should introduce a revenue sharing model between mills and farmers, instead of the existing fixed remunerative price (FRP) and State advised price (SAP) system. TNAU vice-chancellor K Ramasamy said that identifying location-specific varieties and popularising them could improve productivity.
 
 RK Singh, assistant director general at the  , in his address, said research on sugarcane should be oriented towards the threats of climate change and emergence of new pests and diseases.
 
 
