THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In order to ensure that the vacancies in various departments are reported on time to the public service commission ( ), the government has come up with a  . The government has made it mandatory for   to upload the   that arise every month using the software. 

 The software titled VARAM (vacancy arising, reporting and monitoring system) will be operational from February and all department heads and heads of field departments (including all directorates) will have to upload the vacancies in their respective departments before the 10th of every month.
 
 The order issued by the personnel and administrative reforms department states that the government will analyse the vacancies each month and ensure that it is reported to PSC. The consolidated list of vacancies will be analysed every month at the level of chief secretary and necessary steps will be taken to fill them up.
 
 Select officials in all departments were trained on how to upload the cadre strength and the number of vacancies. The software has been coded in such a way that the entries of vacancies relating to previous month will not be accepted after 10th of next month. The government has also warned that any lapse on the part of officials concerned will be dealt seriously.
 
 Once the data is uploaded, the officials concerned will have to forward it to the government by email before 20th of that month. A hard copy of the print out must also be sent to the government simultaneously. The parliament section of the general administration department will be responsible for the overall compilation, control and coordination of the data and the software.
 
 Each head of the department, as well as the line departments under them, will have to appoint an official as the nodal officer in charge of data updation.
 
  Sources said that this exercise will put an end to backdoor appointments as the monthly vacancies will give a clear picture of how many vacancies had arisen and how many are to be filled.
 
 
