A few centuries ago, this nondescript roadside pond had queens of the   dynasty and princesses frolicking in it.
 
  Motorists driving by the Margao-Panaji road or commuters in buses glancing at the fast disappearing water tank hardly realize that they are moving through a royal courtyard.
  
  The area, not far from the shores of Agasaim and Goa Velha must have been bustling with royals, attendants, soldiers and people from the kingdom. Imagine the grandeur and glory of the old capital (comprising parts of both villages) of the   and Silaharas with ships sailing into the Zuari bay and the port buzzing with activity.
  
  Legend has it that the Kuzmorayachem tollem (lake) or Kadambrayachem tollem, one of the few vestiges of the former capital which was abandoned in the 13th century, was within the royal courtyard at Goa Velha. The old national highway snaking through Agasaim and Pilar, sleepier now compared to the past, actually cuts through what may have been a larger water body. The southern part of the water body was a field but lies barren now.
  
  The shrinking water body on the northern side of the old highway is itself overgrown with creepers and vegetation and suffering from neglect. Litter and garbage lying around is a deplorable sight for heritage lovers and villagers — a far cry from the hoary days when the royal women would have their ritual baths at this spot.
  
  “The water body may have been a bigger one, but was dissected by the construction of the Margao-Panaji road,” says historian Fr Cosme Jose Costa. The southern section is now a fallow field but rapidly degenerating and becoming overgrown with vegetation due to neglect.
  
  Costa, a priest of the Society of Pilar, which is barely a kilometer from the site, has set up a museum along with his colleagues at the Major Seminary. It is a rich treasury of artefacts, including a few sourced from the site near the tollem.
  
  One of the artefacts is a small grinder, perhaps used to beat herbs into a paste for medicinal purposes. But another huge granite stone grinder can still be seen at the site of what may have been the Kadamba palace, barely 150m from the water tank.
  
  “The bullocks were used then to grind the copra (dried coconut kernels) and extract the oil,” Costa says.
  
  A retinue of maids may have applied oil to the queen in the palace adjoining the water body or the outhouse near it. Possibly, one or more of the kings may have had a harem or women attendants of the royalty. After a massage of oil and herbs, they may have slipped into the cool waters at the pond.
  
  “In my view, it must have been called the Kadamba rayachem (of the king) tollem, and may have been built by Kadamba King Jayakesi I in the 11th century when he shifted his capital to   or Gopakapattan on the Zuari banks,” says  , president of   (GHAG).
  
  Jayakesi beautified his capital and provided infrastructure by building roads. Rajbid or royal passage, a 65-feet wide, and about 8km in length, paved stone pathway from the port to   is one of the several works he carried out, says Sakhardande.
  
  The Rajbid still exists and stretches towards Old Goa — barely about 300 metres from the tollem. “The water body may have been surely covered by a wall to keep people passing on the rajbid from peeping in,” Costa says.
  
  Jayakesi also laid gardens, tanks, lakes and ponds. “The lotus pond, Kadamba rayachem tollem, of the Kadamba queen is one of these ponds. His queen was Rupadevi and it was probably built for her,” the GHAG president says.
  
  For some villagers and heritage lovers, the slowly silting water body is of sentimental and nostalgic value as a fading vestige of the old capital. But it is slowly silting and becoming unrecognizable. The steps leading to the water below can be faintly seen. “Today it has completely lost its beauty, pristine ambience and is littered with garbage,” Sakhardande laments.
  
  Though Old Goa and Chandor, as former capitals of Goa and visited by sailors and travelers from various parts of the world, have been protected as heritage sites, Gopakpattan is reeling under neglect.
  
  “The tollem, as one of the sites of the old capital, is on the brink of oblivion and needs to be protected as a heritage site,” says Fr Christo Menezes, a villager and history enthusiast.
  
  Sakhardande agrees. “To begin with, the panchayat should clean it up and keep it free of litter before authorities restore it to its original glory by de-silting it and beautifying it,” he says.
