, a 2005-batch Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS) officer, has many plans for the growth of the Multi Model Logistic Park (MMLP) owned by the Container Corporation of India Ltd (CONCOR) in Visakhapatnam city. After serving as senior divisional commercial manager in the Waltair division of the East Coast Railway (ECoR) for four years and seven months, the 37-year-old assumed charge as the general manager of CONCOR for its MMLP unit in the city. A native of Hyderabad, Yadav joined the Indian Railways in 2005. He was instrumental in the successful operation of train services during the Godavari Maha Pushkaralu among many others. Yelvender Yadav talks to 
 of TOI about his plans to make the Vizag MMLP the best logistic parks in the country.

 
 
 
 It is a public undertaking company under the railway ministry. It has been set up to provide responsive, cost-effective, efficient and reliable logistics solutions to customers through synergy with community partners. It will also ensure profitability and growth. Indian Railways, Visakhapatnam Port and   (VCTPL) are among the major stakeholders of the company in Vizag.
 
 
 
 
 MMLP is a logistic park where requisite logistic services and facilities are available to customers of various products except coal, minerals, petroleum products and LPG. As part of the expansion plans, we have opened the new MMLP near Vizag Port along the NH-16 in 106 acres with four warehouses. Each warehouse is spread over 50,000 square feet. We formally started operations on trial basis at the new MMLP last month.
 
 
 
 
 No. We are yet to start the operation of the new MMLP. The construction cost of the MMLP is around Rs 500 crore. We have completed works worth Rs 300 crore, including completion of 50,000 square feet warehouse. We have to complete the remaining works worth about Rs 200 crore. The administration building in an area of 1,500 metres will also be coming up in the new MMLP. We hope that everything will be completed by the end of next fiscal 2017-18.
 
 
 
 
 Currently, the CONCOR is conducting services at its existing small logistic park near Vizag Port in the old city. It is spread over an area of 12 acres and has 1,400 containers. Each container’s capacity is 25 tonnes on an average. 
 
 
 
 Absolutely. The annual turnover of the CONCOR at the old logistic park near the Vizag Port is about Rs 52 crore per annum. We wanted to make at least Rs 200 crore in a year with the services at the new MMLP near the Vizag airport in next couple of years. The new MMLP is the first and giant logistic park in the state. Two more logistic parks are coming up at Kakinada and Krishnapatnam in the state, but they are in the nascent stage.
 
 
 
 Logistics parks and large cargo hubs are required by the industry as large retail chains generate the demand for professionally-managed cargo delivery systems. The MMLP give warehousing and container transport facility to its customers, mostly in Odisha and Chhattisgarh, besides a few pockets in AP. As export and import activities are high in the city, the MMLP’s presence gains significance. The city is also being developed as the financial capital and industrial hub of  .
 
 
 
 
 It is well connected by rail and road. Indian Railways support us by operating trains based on our requirement. The MMLP in the city has a Container Freight Station, Public Bonded Warehouse (Open & Covered Warehouse), Private Freight Terminal, Reefer Container Handling Facility, Empty Container Storage facility and Covered Warehouse to the extent of four lakh squre feet. With the pharma and other exports set to increase, the company is now planning to add temperature controlled warehouse for perishables and pharma products, complete with security surveillance systems and fire-fighting equipment.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, there is competition with private logistic parks. But our strength is the Indian Railways. We are the only company to provide complete transportation services through Indian Railways, which is often a cheaper option for all cargo over medium and long distances, especially if the cost of inter-modal transfers can be reduced. This apart, the container freight traffic is eco-friendly.
 
