PANAJI
 It was candid, frank and brutally honest. Much like the akhada culture they were raised in.
 
  Indian wrestling’s pride and joy, the Phogat sisters Geeta and   graced a knowledge seminar at the Leadership Summit, Goafest 2017, here on Saturday. They enlightened and enthralled an admiring audience enamoured by the recent   Bollywood blockbuster sports biopic  .
  
  If not for the movie, the stirring story of Mahavir, their father, who groomed four daughters to become champion wrestlers would have quite simply drowned in an ocean of cricket.
  
  Geeta, 28, and Babita, 27, unequivocally owed it to the film during a free-wheeling chat onstage with anchor Mandira Bedi, Bollywood actor and TV presenter. “It not only made people aware of us, now they even know who our parents are,” they said in one voice.
  
  Both Geeta and Babita are Commonwealth Games gold medalists at 2010 New Delhi and 2014 Glasgow respectively while two other sisters Ritu, 22, and Sangita,19, are showing every sign of emulating their older siblings.
  
  Pinning down vaunted opponents may have been the Phogats’ claim to fame, but the legacy of glory has gone far beyond. Especially in Haryana, their home state ravaged by gender inequality.
  
  “Wrestling was thought to be a male preserve back home,” Babita said. “Girls taking to the sport drew adverse comments and I thank God for our parents who stood by us.”
  
  There was scarcely a thought expressed by the duo that didn’t involve Mahavir. Never mind if they sought to hoodwink their way past his regimen. From unplugging the inverter that helped illuminate early morning training or throwing water on the floor of the akhada to give it a rain-affected look.
  
  “Yes, it was only rain that could provide us rest and respite from my father’s tough training schedule,” Babita said, albeit appreciatively.
  
  Daya Kaur, their mother, was unflagging behind the scenes, the sisters were quick to point out. “Be it cooking enormous quantities of food that we wrestlers need. Or packing us off to school and caring for our everyday needs,” they said.
  
  Geeta recalled the early days in the village of Balali, Bhiwani district, when as a 12-year-old she even defeated male opponents. The vanquished boy was then subjected to severe taunts. Losing to a female was a matter of shame.
  
  Married to Pawan Kumar, she said she wouldn’t dare do the same with her husband. “He’s a heavy-weight, you know,” she said, sending the audience into splits of laughter.
  
  Grappling with social mores, Geeta recalled, was challenging. “Cropped hair for a girl was unthinkable and donning wrestling attire even worse,” she said.
  
  “It’s quite different now,” the sisters said. “The 2010 Commonwealth Games seemed to bring in change,” Babita said. “Medals made people look at women wrestlers differently,” she added.
  
  After crossing social hurdles, it was grind and toil all the way. “Father was a taskmaster. His aim has always been Olympic medals. His focus was strength and power more than technique. So much so that when we were picked by national coaches, strength training hardly strained us,” Geeta revealed.
  
  On her part, Babita does 1,000 push-ups and 1,500 chin-ups as routine while Geeta revels in free-weight training.
  
  Geeta, who intends wrestling until the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, urged women to keep themselves fit, first and foremost, irrespective of weight and size. Training in right earnest, despite the commitment of marriage, she prepares along with Babita for the World Championships in Paris in August.
