UDAIPUR: Patidar quota stir leader   said the BJP government is making all efforts to hold him from re-entering Gujarat. 

 “Home minister   may get me killed in a fake encounter as he has been asked to do so by Amit Shah,” Hardik said at a press conference held at his temporary residence here on the eve of his departure from Udaipur on Monday. 
 
 On being asked the basis of the encounter allegation, he said without taking any name “ they have here an officer who was an accused in the Sohrabuddin fake encounter case”. 
 
 The Patel leader had come to Udaipur in July last, to fulfil the bail condition put by   for spending 6 months out of the state. The exile period ended on January 13 and Hardik would depart from Udaipur on Tuesday morning. 
 
 However, the PAAS conveners and supporters doubt the BJP government would get Hardik arrested in some or other pretext. “ They are gripped with fear of the mass movement. They want to come back to power in the state elections however, to suppress the agitation, they are doing everything in their power” Hardik said.
 
 Speaking about Modi he said “ just as a fox cannot become a lion by wearing its skin, similarly the Prime Minister cannot put on the fake act for long. People are realizing the truth”. Hardik said the BJP led   government tried all means to curb his freedom, stopped him from meeting community men, videographed his movements during his Udaipur stay. 
 
 “ If they cannot kill me, I may be sent to jail for 14 years. But then when I come out at 36, I will have ample time to serve the community” Hardik told media. Hardik also said the police had sealed the garden where he had arranged for a community feast before departure. The event was later arranged at ex MLA Pushkarlal Dangi’s residence where Hardik stayed. 
 
 The Patel leader will address a mass rally at the Rajasthan-Gujarat border in Ratanpur on Tuesday afternoon. PAAS conveners have already announced a mass agitation and highway jam, if Hardik is arrested for any reason. 
 
 pics- Preparations for a community dinner at Hardik's temporary residence in Udaipur on Monday
 
 The PAAS convener in conversation with Patel community on the eve of Udaipur departure.
 
 
