HYDERABAD:   advocate general D Prakash Reddy on Tuesday informed the   that the central government had accorded in-principle approval to the state government to take over a portion of   and Gymkhana grounds to construct a new Secretariat.“It is a government to government deal and came with certain conditions,“ he told the bench of acting Chief Justice   and   that was hearing a public interest petition filed by retired DGP M V Bhaskar Rao and three others, questioning the government's move to construct a Secretariat complex in these grounds considered to be the lung space of the twin cities.

 The bench earlier sought to know the stand of the Centre on this issue. But the Centre's counsel K Lakshman sought a week more time to submit its reply.
 
 The AG also furnished a copy of the in-principle approval from the defence ministry and said that the government needed the space to decongest the Cantonment area in particular and Secunderabad in general. “The state highway and national highway 44 passes through Cantonment. Leave alone the open grounds and lung spaces, the   authorities are blocking even roads and making the lives of the people more congested and miserable. Hence we have decided to take up some works under our Strategic Road Development Project (SRDP) to de-congest the area“, the AG said. To a query from the bench about the Centre's decision on the land, the AG replied that this was a cabinet decision.
 
 Senior counsel S Satyam Reddy , who was opposing the move to construct a new Secretariat in the grounds, urged the bench to nip the idea in the bud, stating that, otherwise, it would become a huge monster in the future and rob the people of their only lung space left in the city . “They cannot destroy the one that they cannot create,“ he said.“If there is any major threat, calamity etc., where is the space for you to keep the evacuated people?,“ he asked and urged the bench to stop this at the conceptual stage itself.The bench said that it would take a call after seeing the counters filed by the state and the Centre.
 
 Meanwhile, a group of retired police officials from Telangana filed a petition urging the court to take them as parties to the plea. Appearing for them, senior counsel P Gangaiah Naidu urged the court to implead them. The CJ told him that whether the bench accepts their plea or not, it will certainly hear you.They were supporting the stand of the state and wanted the court to allow the government to go ahead with its plans to improve the city .
 
