PUNE: Footage from the closed circuit television cameras installed on the Infosys’ campus helped the Pune police crack software engineer Rasila Raju’s murder. 

 The cameras on the ninth floor recorded the arrested suspect Bhaben Bharali Saikia (27) following Rasila to the restricted area on the floor where she worked. She had reached her office around 3pm on Sunday and started working online with the Bengaluru team on a project.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (Zone III)   told TOI that Saikia followed her when she arrived at 3pm and sneaked into the restricted area which has cubicles and a conference room.
 
 “Rasila used her ID-cum-access card to enter the restricted area and Saikia followed her. He told her that he has been assigned a task to tabulate the computers on that floor and was carrying a pen and paper,” Shinde said.
 
 He left the door open so that he could enter and exit at will. Saikia went into the room thrice between 5pm and 7pm. Rasila was working all alone in the office, police said.
 
 The company officials told police that barring employees, no one is allowed in this section of the floor known as the ODC room. An access card allows entry.
 
 Two cameras installed on the floor focusing on the entry and exit captured Saikia’s movements on the floor. “Rasila may have left her cubicle and gone to answer a phone call in the conference room located within the restricted area, when Saikia entered the room once again after 5pm,” Shinde added.
 
 Vaishali Jadhav-Mane assistant commissioner of police (Chatushrungi division) said no one else visited the floor on Sunday. 
 
 The footage shows Saikia running away from the restricted area around 7pm. “All his suspicious moves were captured by the cameras. He was the last person spotted in the area and we used the “the last-seen theory” to solve the case. After Saikia left the floor, Rasila stopped communicating with the Bengaluru team,” she said. Saikia’s cellphone location showed that he was heading towards Mumbai, she added.
 
 After Rasila stopped responding to the Bengaluru team, the members waited for an hour after 7pm and then informed the Hinjewadi office to check. An employee went to the ninth floor around 8.30pm and found Rasila lying on the floor, unconscious. The company authorities called the police at 9pm.
 
 Jadhav-Mane said the conference room is not under CCTV surveillance, but the cameras at the entry and exit of the restricted area provide evidence against Saikia.
 
