Election officials are banking on video   and dedicated teams to keep a watch on activities on the voting day, beasides gearing up to tackle the huge rush of candidates’  . 

 Municipal commissioner Abhishek Krishna told TOI that adequate manpower and machinery are in place for the smooth conduct of the polls scheduled on February 21. A list of sensitive and hyper-sensitive booths has been declared from the point of view of law and order, while critical booths have been identified from the voting trend or pattern observed in the past elections. 
 
 “The sensitive, hyper-sensitive and critical booths in this election have been decided by the returning officers. We have also set up video cameras in critical booths to record all the proceedings within those polling booths,” he said.
 
 He added that the only problem that they may face is related to the number of polling agents. “With four-member prabhag and one polling agent for each candidate, there will be lot of rush. The number of polling agents could go up to 40. The election commission has asked us to appeal to political parties to appoint one polling agent for all the four candidates of theirs,” he said.
 
 To ensure a close watch on the activities on the polling day, each returning officer has two video surveillance teams.“We also have additional video surveillance teams to keep a watch on violations of model code of conduct. There are also some static video surveillance teams. There are 30 such teams in the model ode of conduct cell,” Krishna said.
 
 The election officials received 27 complaints regarding violations of code of conduct and 21 have been dealt with. Krishna appealed to voters to come out and vote in large numbers on February 21. 
 
 He reminded the voters that they have to choose their representatives who will run their city for the next five years. “If in a place like   the voting is 72%, then why not in Nashik? Voters in Gadchiroli risk their lives to vote. It is a pity we have to appeal to people to vote even after so many years of independence. Everyone should decide whome they want to elect as it will decide the policies of the city,” he added.
 
