Tension prevailed for a brief while when supporters of AIADMK general secretary   chased away journalists who attempted to take visuals of the   in Koovathur where more than 90 MLAs have been camping since Wednesday night. Policemen posted for security at the resort intervened to defuse the situation and prevent journalists from being physically assaulted by her supporters.

 They threatened to thrash journalists and damage their cameras. They were hard especially on a few journalists representing some satellite channels which they accused of telecasting 'false news'. They termed the media as pro-chief minister Panneerselvam.
 
 Arguments between journalists and her supporters resumed after Sasikala reached the resort around 6pm on Monday. Sasikala's supporters locked the gates as soon as her vehicle and convoy entered the resort. Her supporters insisted on meeting the reporter of a particular Tamil channel for carrying a 'false report' that an AIADMK legislator staying in the resort attempted to flee and was thrashed by other MLAs. The legislator, who was present near the gate, asked the reporter to issue a clarification.
 
 When reporters insisted that they be permitted into the resort, her supporters said journalists will be permitted after Sasikala's interaction with MLAs and party functionaries.Police later assured reporters that they would help them recharge their mobile phones, cameras and laptops.While they arranged temporary tent and chairs for journalists, they did not provide any facility for recharging their equipment.
 
 Police too had a tough time in managing the situation. A four-member police team posted for duty has been camping at Koovathur for the past two days. “We were supposed to report to our station last night. We got a call asking us to stay at Koovathur and continue bandobust duty on Monday also. We don't know the reason."
 
 Meanwhile Sasikala, who visited MLAs for the third consecutive day, decided to stay at the resort on Monday. Police, which had negligible presence until Sunday afternoon, have strengthened their vigil. Sources said eight MLAs at the resort were down with flu. An ambulance with medical and paramedical staff members that entered the resort on Monday morning did not return until 4pm.
 
 
 
 
 V K Sasikala on Monday decided to stay with the MLAs at the resort to dispel `rumours' that the legislators have been confined at the facilty against their will. More than 90 MLAs have been camping at the resort since Wednesday night. “There have been rumours that MLAs have been confined. I decided to stay with them. We will be leaving happily from here on Tuesday. This hamlet will be remembered for the years to come," she told party MLAs. Recalling the crisis the party faced after the death of founder leader MGR during which the party split into two, Sasikala said the party is faced with a similar crisis again.
 
