JAIPUR: The   (NSDC) under the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship is looking to create an index of skills for all districts of India. The ease of doing   introduced in 2015 by the Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP) along with the  .

 Speaking on the sidelines of CII's `Skills & HR Conclave', NSDC MD and CEO   said, “We are trying to create an index for skills for all the districts in the country. Doing it correctly will require us at least one and half years. But we are keen to develop the system.The key is to develop a model for giving a number to skills in the districts for their comparison.“
 
 In order to conceptualize the model, the corporation is talking to various individuals and agencies already working on the subject.
 
 “NSDL has a research division which has already started working on understanding the analytics of it. There is associ ated professor from Spain who has joined us recently for the work. He has been assigned the work and given a team. We are talking to a scholar in the Cam bridge University who is doing research on skills. There is an IIM-Bangalore professor with whom we are having conversations to conceptualize the model,“ added Kumar.
 
 Globally , models developed by World Bank already exist in Latin American, African and South-east Asian countries.The corporation is studying the methodology adopted in those countries to see if some of the modules can be adopted in the Indian context. World Bank is also part of the NSDL project.
 
 “When we talk of skills, it is divided into three parts -cognitive, non-cognitive and technical. Cognitive reflects problem solving ability . When it is noncognitive, it is your communication skills. And technical is the work one does and how well he or she does. Measuring each of these is very challenging. It is complex because it is not tangible. So we need proxies which should be well-established globally,“ added Kumar.
 
 Japan-India Institute of Manufacturing at Neemrana to have capacity of 1,000.
 
 After the establishment of Centre for Excellence in tourism training in collaboration with Singapore, Rajasthan has got another state-of the-art skill training centre Japan-India Institute of Manufacturing near Japanese zone in Neemrana.
 
 Even though the centre was announced in the state Budget for 2017-18, the project is the result of the Memorandum of Association (MoA) signed by chief minister Vasundhara Raje with Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) during her visit to Japan in April 2015. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Japan, he signed another MoA with Japan under which Japanese companies were to develop skill training centres at three locations in the country such as Gujarat, Rajasthan and Karnataka.
 
 “For Rajasthan, Daikin India has been nominated as the leading company for the coordination with other Japanese entities to establish the skill centre with the cooperation from Rajasthan government. The ultimate annual capacity of the centre will be around 1000. The level of skill training will be of global standard,“ said Rajat Kumar Mishra, principal secretary, labour and skills.
 
