LUCKNOW: The   of the country might soon have an act which would protect their interest in many ways as the department of   on August 2, 2016 introduced a bill in Lok Sabha titled as “The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Bill, 2016”. The bill was later referred to the standing committee of the department for examination. The Central government gave this information to a Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High   on Monday.

 After coming to know about this, the court asked the Centre’s counsel to file an affidavit bringing all the said facts on its record. The court also asked him to apprise it of further development and steps being taken by the government for betterment of the transgender population.
 
 Considering that the better response can be given on the issue by the secretary of the Central Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, the court directed the petitioner to make the secretary a party in the petition. The court posted the matter for next hearing after three weeks. 
 
 A division bench comprising Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Sanaji Harkauli passed the above order on a public interest litigation petition filed by a local advocate NS Mishra. Filing the PIL in April 2016, the petitioner had raised the issue with regard to the benefits for transgender community including their education, reservation in employment and education, free and compulsory education to their children. The petition had further demanded that appropriate legal provisions be also made in favour of the transgender community.
 
 Terming the issue as important, the court had said that an effort should be made to include the transgender in the mainstream of the national life of this country keeping in view their considerable population which according to the reports of the Census prepared by the Central government is of a sizeable number.
 
 The bench had accordingly on April 4, 2016, directed the Central government and the state government both to take up this matter and file an appropriate affidavit before it indicating as to what possible laws could be invoked that were already existing and what possible and necessary directions would be required for the purpose of formulating a future policy or guidelines so as to extend any such benefits to which such a class may be entitled in order to ensure equality of opportunity and a dignified life along with other citizens of this nation.
 
 In compliance of the court’s directives issued on April 4, 2016, the Central government counsel placed an office memorandum before the bench on Monday pointing out that a bill had been introduced in parliament for welfare and interest of transgender society. 
 
 
