Surat: Until now, the black money holders in the Diamond City have deposited over Rs 160 crore of their illegal wealth under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). 

 With just few days left to avail the PMGKY before the March 31 deadline, the income tax department has tightened its noose around the black money holders by intensifying surveys throughout the city. Till now, around 60 surveys have been carried out on the high-value depositors including jewellers, realtors, retailers, etc. following information about their illegal deposits in the bank accounts. 
 
 The department, has issued over 5,000 notices to those who have deposited above Rs 10 lakh in old currencies in their bank accounts post-demonetization. The department has been seeking the replies of the assessees on the high-value deposits. 
 
 As per the information, the city witnessed over Rs 18,000 crore of deposits after old notes were scrapped on November 8, 2016. The Surat district cooperative bank topped among all the banks, with deposits of Rs 340 crore.
 
 “In Surat and surrounding district falling under Surat I-T, over 30,000 accounts were found to be suspicious and some of the accounts had deposits in cash to the tune of Rs 1 crore or above. In the first instance, we sent a mail to the account holder asking for details. Most of them have replied and some of the cases have been closed or they have joined the PMGKY scheme accepting that the cash was black money,” said an officer.
 
 PMGKY is an amnesty scheme under which one can disclose unaccounted cash and deposits, and avoid punishment by paying 50 per cent of the disclosed amount as tax, and depositing 25 per cent in an interest-free scheme for four years.
 
 The department has warned that those black money holders who do not declare their illegal assets under the PMGKY scheme will ‘regret later’.
 
 However, the department has promised ‘confidentiality’ for those who come forward to disclose their illegal wealth. The I-T department has warned that they have ‘information’ about those who have stashed black money.
 
 The tax and penalty against those who hide their black money and fail to avail the PMGKY could go as high as 137 per cent of the cash deposits made.
 
 A person or entity that opts for PMGKY will have to pay 49.9 per cent tax on the income, whereas a person who does not opt for the scheme but offers his black income in his income tax returns will face a tax and penalty rate of 77.25 per cent.
 
 The one who does not offer his stash funds under the scheme but is caught with undisclosed income in scrutiny assessment will face 83.25 per cent tax rate.
 
 
