Some of the   legislators, who have been staying in two resorts near Mahabalipuram since Wednesday night after attending a meeting convened by general secretary V K Sasikala in Chennai, met journalists on Friday and asserted that they had not been kidnapped or confined by force.

 N Murugumaran (Kattumannarkoil), M Geetha (Krishnarayapuram) C Jayanthi Padmanabhan (Gudiyattam) and eight other, who have been staying at the Golden Bay Beach Resort, met the media almost 2km from the place of their stay and asserted that they had not been kidnapped.
 
 The eight others were J K N Ramajeyalingam (Jayankondam), R T Ramachandran (Kunnam), N G Parthiban (Sholingur), R Thamizhselvan (Perambalur), S T K Jakkaiyan (Cumbum), S Gunasekaran (Tirupur South), K N Vijayakumar (Tirupur North) and A Natarajan (Palladam).
 
 The MLAs said they had voluntarily come forward to stay in a single place to extend their solidarity to Sasikala. They reasoned that all of them wanted to stay close to Chennai so that they could reach the capital immediately whenever the governor invited their leader to form the government.
 
 Murugumaran, who was first to address reporters, said the party general council had pleaded with late chief minster J Jayalithaa's long-term friend Sasikala to fill the vacuum by assuming charge as the general secretary. “After Chinnamma took over, the MLAs anonymously elected her the legislature party leader on February 5 to pave way for her to become the chief minister. We felt the party's general secretary must be the chief minister,“ he said.
 
 The legislators said that they had switched off their mobile phones as they had been receiving calls continuously from unknown people. Geetha said, “Initially callers were polite but as time passed by they started abusing.“
 
 People whom they did not know had filed habeas corpus petitions in the Madras high court stating they were missing, they said. “It is a plot hatched by the rival camp,“ said Jayanthi.
 
 They also denied reports that a section of legislators in the hotel had dissented and refused to have lunch. “We have resolved to stay united to realize the dreams of Puratchi Thalaivi,“ said Thamizhselvan.
 
 The Perambalur MLA said Panneerselvam's betrayal was exposed when DMK deputy general secretary Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan pledged support to him. Jayanthi said Chinnamma, who was with their beloved Amma for 30 years, will give good governance.
 
 S Gunasekaran, who represents the Tirupur South constituency , rubbished claims that a legislator was injured when he fell into the swimming pool. “We will be always with the `Two Leaves' symbol. OPS was the one who proposed Chinnamma's name. We are enjoying here. It is an opportunity for us to bond well,“ he said.
 
 On Thursday , Sasikala's supporters, who had gathered near the resort, prevented journalists from reaching the hotel.Men stopped journalists around 2km from the hotel.
 
