SHIMLA: Acting on a   by the principal of   and Hospital (IGMCH) here, police on Monday lodged an   at   

 Based on principal Dr Ashok Sharma’s complaint, police registered a case of voluntary causing hurt, assault and trespass along with Section 3 of HP Educational Institutions (Prohibition of Ragging) Act.
 
 Earlier in the day, a first year MBBS student, who was allegedly subjected to ragging by final year students, had submitted a written complaint to the principal, saying three final year students had ragged some freshers and thrashed those who opposed them.
 
 The letter stated that the senior students had called some first year students from Raman Hostel of IGMCH for “introduction” around 11pm on Sunday. This was followed by a round of questioning, which ended with a clash between the seniors and juniors around 1am.
 
 Sources said the hostel warden was informed about the incident around 2am. Later, around 11am, some 10-12 first year MBBS students reached the principal’s office to submit a written complaint. 
 
 Taking a serious note of the incident, Dr Sharma called a college meeting from 11.30am to 2.45pm, and followed it up with a meeting of college’s Anti-Ragging Committee within an hour. In the second meeting, he summoned students, both from senior and junior classes, and their parents. 
 
 One final year student allegedly involved in the incident was even suspended from the hostel.
 
 However, the meeting failed to reach a consensus, following which Dr Sharma lodged a formal complaint of ragging with police in the evening. In his complaint, he stated that Praveen Negi, a Batch-2012 student, had gone to Manish Bhargwa’s room and assaulted him while ragging. 
 
 According to the principal, parents of each student give an affidavit at the time of admission that their wards would not indulge in ragging. Ragging cannot be allowed and should never be tolerated, he added. He said both police and Anti-Ragging Committee of the college are currently probing into the matter to know the truth.
 
 In March 2009, Aman Kachroo, a 19-year-old first year MBBS student of Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College and Hospital, Tanda, in Kangra district, had died after he was subjected to intense physical ragging by his seniors. Ever since, the authorities have been extremely strict about ragging cases in the educational institutions.
 
 
