PUDUCHERRY:   has cautioned the students not to fall prey to fake, forged and fabricated notification regarding   for admission into postgraduate   programmes.

 In a public notice, MCI secretary (in-charge) Reena Nayyar said the council learnt that a notification indicating that the private medical colleges have been granted approval to fill up seats under NRI category and management quota on their own is being circulated in the electronic media (WhatsApp and email). 
 
 Nayyar said such a notification (dated April 11, 2017) is not signed and it has not been published by the Medical council of India and declared that such a notification is ‘fake, forged and fabricated’.
 
 “It (notification) has not been published by the medical council of India…It appears to be the handiwork of unscrupulous elements trying to disrupt the admission process through common counselling on the inter se merit of the National eligibility cum entrance test (Neet). The council is in the process of lodging complaint with the authorities in this regard against unknown persons, who have indulged in this criminal act,” Nayyar said in the notice dated April 13.
 
 The notification relating to common counselling for postgraduate courses has been published in ‘The Gazette of India’ on March 11, 2017. “It is placed on the MCI website under the e-gazette link available on the bottom of MCI homepage http://www.mciindi.org. All concerned are advised to obtain the correct copy of the notification from MCI website and cautioned not to be misled by fake, forged and fabricated documents circulating in electronic media,” Nayyar said.
 
 The Union health and family welfare ministry has already directed the all States and Union territories to conduct common counselling for filling up of postgraduate and undergraduate medical seats including management and NRI quota seats in government and private colleges for the academic year 2017-18. 
 
 Under-secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Biswas issued an order in this regard after the ministry learnt that some States or Union territories are exempting certain category of seats from common counselling.
 
