MUMBAI: Brick-and-mortar retailing, if investors are to be believed, has a bright future in India.
 
  The   of  , who pioneered organised retailing in the country, has almost doubled its market capitalisation in the past three months that witnessed consistent value erosion at online shoppers   and  .
  
  Three listed entities of the group now have a combined valuation of Rs 21,833 crore, more than that of Shoppers Stop, Trent and Arvind Group put together.
  
  It’s no surprise, therefore, that CEO Kishore Biyani is being wooed by marquee investors, who recognise the Mumbai entrepreneur’s ability to revive retailing businesses that have remained largely fragmented in the nation of 1.2 billion people.
  
  The pioneer himself had to begin afresh after a stellar initial run when, five years ago, he had to sell the flagship Pantaloons business to the Aditya Birla Group after abortive merger talks.
 
  “I have always been a zero to one player, and I do not need investors now, and we have learnt from our mistakes,” Kishore Biyani told ET. “We know what not to do. We are now ruthless in our operations.”
  
  Kishore Biyani’s earliest retailing formats had sought to recreate India’s traditionally vibrant markets in an organised setting, relying more on the qualitative and behavioural aspects of purchasing to design the formats and take decisions. Five years after Pantaloons was sold and the Future Group began its journey afresh, the CEO has now become increasingly data-driven in his approach to the business.
  
  “Today, only data drive our decisions: We are ruthless with it and there are no emotions, and 70% of the decisions are taken through technology,” said Kishore Biyani, who relied on cousin Rakesh Biyani to bring in technology and data for building a robust fashion business.
  
  He had hit a rough patch and was forced to sell his flagship lifestyle chain after first considering to merge Pantaloons with both Shoppers Stop and Lifestyle. Kishore Biyani had to walk out of merger talks with the Landmark group in Dubai after a senior executive ridiculed the proposal.
  
  “It was an insult that I will never forget. Mergers are always among equals. Very few people in India understand M&A. You don’t let businesses die, you merge,” said Kishore Biyani. He now runs Future Lifestyle Fashion that clocked quarterly sales of more than Rs 1,000 crore with same-store sales growth of more than 20% in the three months to December 2016 - higher than both Lifestyle and Shoppers Stop.
  
  “Our origin lies in the fashion business and we have more than three decades of history behind what we are doing. We sell over 15 crore units of garments every year and our fashion business is now over a billion dollars. We believe that our fashion business has matured and we are now set to reap the benefits of scale, experience and power of brands in creating value for all our stakeholders,” said Rakesh Biyani, joint MD at Future Retail.
  
  The group is also looking to sell home furnishings business Home-Town, shut sportswear arm Planet Sports and merge stores of electronics chain Ezone within the supermarket BigBazaar. There will be only small stores and big stores.
  
  As part of a strategy to more than treble its revenue to Rs 75,000-1 lakh crore by 2021, the group has also made more than a dozen global deals in the past few years. For its next phase of growth, the company would focus on the convenience store format.
  
  “We are looking for more acquisitions in the convenience store formats. We have built the platform now of brands, products, distribution, consumer insight and supply chain. I will be a fool if I don’t cash in on that. We will bring down prices so sharply that no rivals can match them. We will be the lowest-cost operator in FMCG and fashion,” said Kishore Biyani, who plans to open about 10,000 Easy Day convenience stores now, against the earlier target of 3,000 by 2021.
