NAGPUR: The crucial coordination meeting of forest, police,   and civil societies organized on Tuesday called to strengthen   and joint patrolling with the   to curb death of wild animals  .

 The meeting, which was attended by 40 officials including NGOs at Van Sabhagruha, Civil Lines, was called by APCCF (wildlife) N Rambabu at the behest of Debabrata Swain, NTCA’s regional head here, following the death of two tigers and poisoning of two leopards in Khapa range and Pench recently.
 
 NTCA has taken a serious note of recent deaths of wild animals due to electrocution and in Tuesday’s meeting it was decided to conduct joint raids by forest and MSEDCL officials against those flowing current with live wires on farm fence.
 
 “The issue of farmers using well water pumps to flow current was also discussed. In such a situation it is impossible to catch the culprits as tripping data is not available unlike current flown from 11kv lines,” said officials.
 
 It was also decided to give prize money to informers from secret fund for tip-offs about people resorting to electrocution. A review meeting will also be held after two months on the decisions taken at the meeting. A decision was also taken to check natural and artificial water holes in coming summer with litmus paper.
 
 In the last two months, three tigers in the region died after coming in contact with live wires. Jai too seems to have met the same fate.
 
 Sources attending the meeting said stress was laid on protecting tigers not only in protected areas (PAs) but outside too. A review meeting has also been organized on in Delhi on January 27.
 
 However, tiger cell members attending the meeting said that this is not for the first time these issues have been deliberated jointly. “Our pain is that there is no action on the ground,” they said.
 
 A review of minutes of the meeting of past tiger cells shows that electrocution and data sharing of tripping is most commonly discussed but MSEDCL officials never admit their fault.
 
