BENGALURU: The high court on Wednesday directed the CID not to interrogate advocate   any further in connection with the seizure of Rs 1.97 crore from his car on   premises in October last year.

 Justice Anand Byrareddy said if the agency needs to question him further, it can approach the court and seek permission. The judge direct ed the agency to complete the investigation and file a report before the jurisdictional court in 8 weeks.
 
 Earlier, the state public prosecutor requested the court to give more time to complete the probe citing the petitioner had been giving different versions regarding the source of money.
 
 Siddhartha claimed that he was apprehended on October 21, 2016 and was subjected to interrogation continuously , still no offence was alleged in the FIR.HC quashes criminal case against official The HC on Wednesday quashed the proceedings initiated against R Suresh, former secretary to the department of industries and commerce, before a special Lokayukta court based on the special investigation team (SIT) probe.
 
 “The matter for further investigation referred to the SIT on the basis of the report of the Lokayukta.There's no indication that the agency was authorized to conduct investigation into every case of illegal mining. Even it was inclined to do so, it may have been necessary to take the government into confidence and secured permission to take steps in respect of any other case other than which were referred,” Justice Anand Byrareddy noted.
 
 The court also negated the registration of the case under sections 379, 409, 420 and 447 of IPC noting that the petitioner was discharging his official duty and that there was no allegation that he had converted property into his name. The registration of the offence under section 13(1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, against the 76-year-old official was also quashed.
 
 Suresh was accused of modifying the sketch of the mining lease of B R Amar Singh Limited to include adjacent land which is rich in iron ore in Kondli village of Tumakuru without permission from the Centre.
 
