PATNA: One Gauhar Imam, who works in Qatar, on Tuesday slammed the Centre after he failed to get his old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes exchanged at the Patna office of   (RBI) despite producing all the documents to show that he was not in India between November 9 and December 30.

 Imam, who hails from Patna, has been working as a highway engineer in Qatar for more than a year. He reached New Delhi on January 1 on a Jet Airways flight around 5.30am and then to Patna on a connecting flight. Since he was supposed to stay in Patna for just two days, he rushed to the RBI Patna office on Monday to exchange the old notes. “I went to the RBI office with Rs 14,500 in old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes. However, I was not entertained by those in the security counter and not even allowed to talk to senior officials. I was simply told that exchange facility was not available at RBI Patna,” Imam said. He was advised by the RBI Patna officials at the counter to get the old notes exchanged at RBI Delhi or the other specified centres according to notification issued by the bank on December 31.
 
 Public relation officer of RBI Pravin Kumar said the notification issued by the headquarters on December 31 clearly stated that the facility of exchange would be available only in Mumbai, New Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata and Nagpur RBI offices.
 
 However, Imam said he could not get the old notes exchanged at RBI Delhi because he had connecting flight for Qatar on Tuesday. “It is not possible to leave the airport in Delhi as I have to catch a connecting flight. Also names of five specified RBI offices were never mentioned in PM’s speech,” Imam said, adding, “This is not fair. It is my hard-earned money. The Prime Minister should take note of it,” he said.
 
 “While announcing   on November 8, the PM had clearly said that those who would not be able to deposit scrapped notes by December 30 can get the currencies exchanged at RBI office after giving a valid reason. The deadline for exchanging old notes at RBI for Indians living abroad was March 30 and for NRIs, it was June 30, 2017. In his speech, the PM had not mentioned the names of specified RBI offices,” he said.
 
 Imam added that he ran from pillar to post at Indian embassy in Qatar too to exchange the money. “I visited the embassy five times to get the old notes exchanged, but to no avail. They had no clear instruction from the government of India,” he added.
 
 
