Gurgaon: Pugmarks of a female leopard and her two cubs have been found by the wildlife department in Mangar, a village in the Aravalis, after local residents reported sighting of the trio at least twice on Tuesday. The department has asked officials to immediately make drinking water arrangements in the forest area for the wild animals.

 Residents claimed they spotted the same female leopard at least thrice in this month alone. “The same female leopard was seen on the night of March 13, 25 and 27 in our village. It seems the big cat was either in search of food or water. It is very worrying if the leopard is not getting water at the beginning of summer,” said Sunil Harsana, a resident of Mangar.
 
 Harsana, who has been campaigning for the protection of Mangar forests, said the leopard sightings confirm thriving wildlife in the area. “Sightings of leopards in this area indicate flourishing wildlife here. There is an urgent need to take measures to protect the rich flora and fauna of Mangar,” he said.
 
 Another resident said more patrolling is required. “We need more patrolling as leopard sightings have increased in the area. There are a few cattle owners in Mandawar and Bandhwari, who claimed to have lost cattle. There is also a need to ensure that arrangements are made for water and food so that wildlife can flourish in this area,” he said.
 
 Taking immediate action, Conservator of forests (Gurgaon circle) MD Sinha wrote a letter to the deputy conservator of forests (Faridabad and Gurgaon) and the divisional wildlife officer (Gurgaon) to fill up the dry water holes built by the department in the Aravalis.
 
 “It appears that it (the leopard) has littered and may be in search of water along with her cubs. It (is), therefore, necessary that the water holes built in the area by us (the forest department) are filled regularly, so that the wildlife doesn’t venture out of the forest area. This may be considered urgent,” read the letter (a copy of which is with TOI).
 
 Activists, on the other hand, blamed the department for not filling up water holes in time.
 
 “The department is already very late in filling up the dry water holes. These water holes should have been filled up during the winter season. It shows laxity on part of wildlife officials. Making water holes is not going to serve the purpose. There is a need for regular maintenance and regular filling up of the water holes,” said Amit Chaudhery from People For Animals (PFA) Gurgaon, an animal welfare organisation.
 
 Sightings of big cats have been reported near Mandawar, Bandhwari and Asola Bhatti Sanctuary at least five times in the past three months. In January, a female leopard was also caught twice on a camera trap installed by the department in Bandhwari area.
 
 
