NEW DELHI: A youngster who murdered his uncle for refusing to give him money to buy drugs entered   dreading what would become of him. Wracked by drug withdrawal symptoms, he fought savagely with his handlers in prison. Today, after a month of counselling under Tihar’s new deaddiction programme, the youth optimistically says, “I no longer need drugs or alcohol. I am a changed person.”

 Since February 1, around 25 inmates of the central jail are being treated for their substance dependence. Calling their group ‘Hifasat’, or protection, the youth in the age group of 18-22 have resolved to not only protect each other, but also encourage one another not to give in to the weaknesses created by withdrawal symptoms.
 
 Among the group members is a 19-year-old wrestler, whose promising future took a drastic turn when he murdered a friend while intoxicated. Halfway through the deaddiction programme now, he has vowed never to touch alcohol again. A fellow prisoner confessed to becoming a drug addict after being forced to consume some by his school seniors when he was a mere 10-year-old. He landed in Tihar after taking to robberies to afford his expensive addiction. “I have realised the damage that I have done to my family’s reputation,” he told TOI.
 
 Another inmate, who too has been jailed for robbery, was similarly enthusiastic. “The mistakes I made yesterday can be bettered today,” he philosphised. “I have promised myself never to take any drugs and to motivate my peers not to do so either.”
 
 Happy that the first batch under the programme is well motivated to give up their habit,  , director general (Prisons), said, “We hope that they inculcate these values for life and dissuade others from consuming drugs after they leave Tihar.”
 
 Over a dozen members of Hifasat have volunteered to become a part of the deaddiction programme and work as counsellors for the next batch. “New inmates need the maximum attention and motivation because when they are disheartened to find themselves in jail and tend to descend into depression,” said  , superintendent of Jail No 7 at Tihar. “A project of this sort motivates such inmates into envisioning a better future.” 
 
 
