NAGPUR: Lakadganj police, still groping for substantial clue in  , did not rule out the possibility of opting for advanced tests like narco-analysis of deceased’s husband   who is being booked in the case following statement of their 13-year-old daughter Manisha (name changed) earlier this week. After the case was investigated as accidental death for around one-and-half month, the matter took a twist after post-mortem report confirmed Rekha’s death was due to poisoning in mid-February.

 Apart from non-admission of Radheshyam in custody now, it is the Regional forensic science laboratory (RFSL) which have made the task of investigation a difficult one now. On Friday, investigation officer PG Gadekar approached the   for expediting the crucial viscera report of Rekha which would confirm the nature of poison administered to the victim. So far, the forensic experts of   has indicated that it was a poisoning which caused death of Rekha within 15 minutes of her consuming ‘sev puri’ brought by husband Radheshyam on January 2 this year. After the post-mortem, the viscera was sent to RFSL for chemical analysis in a routine manner. Though chemical analysis reports take more than a month in regular case, the institution is known to expedite the process in special matters following requests from the investigation officer. However, Lakadganj police are still awaiting the report despite reminders. 
 
 Lakadganj police, which feels the case is much depended on circumstantial evidence, are now planning various means to reach to a convincing conclusion to file the charge sheet within stipulated 90 days. According to a senior officer, Radheshyam has been denying his role behind administering poison to wife though they had been at loggerheads over various issues including his over-indulgence in social networking sites and mobile phones through which he had befriended many women. “Once Radheshyam is in magisterial custody, police can contemplate opting for lie-detection and such other psychological and narco tests to ascertain the truth to rule out any doubts creeping into the probe,” he said.
 
 
