MUMBAI: Two   pilots flying on the Mumbai-Jodhpur-Jaipur-Mumbai route were forced to return and make   twice within a span of seven hours on Saturday, as wheels of two   aircraft—termed “lethal, snag-prone” by a pilots’ union—failed to retract post take-offs. 

 For the past two years, an AI pilots' union has been demanding that A320 Classics, which are over 20 years old, be grounded.
 
 It all started around 11 am when the pilots of   faced a technical problem soon after they took off from Mumbai. “Since the undercarriage assembly of the A320 classic couldn't be retracted, the aircraft had to return as per standard operating procedures,” said a source. Given that the 168-seater aircraft was loaded with fuel to safely last the journey, an overweight landing was carried out at the Mumbai airport. Then the aircraft was grounded. 
 
 The passengers were moved to another aircraft, again an A320 classic. The second aircraft departed at 12.45 pm, landed safely in Jodhpur and then departed for Jaipur and landed there safely too without any problem around 4 pm. By now, flight AI 645 was three-and-a-half hours behind schedule. 
 
 The A320 took off from Jaipur for Mumbai only to have an undercarriage problem similar to the one faced by the earlier aircraft. “The same set of pilots again carried out a precautionary landing with an overweight aircraft,” the source added. 
 
 An AI spokesperson confirmed both incidents. “The aircraft that was grounded in Mumbai has been repaired and is safe for operations. The one in Jaipur remains grounded,” the spokesperson said. 
 
 The Jaipur-Mumbai passengers were moved to another aircraft. A source said: “The same set of pilots have been asked to operate the A320 with its unretractable undercarriage to Mumbai as a ferry flight, without passengers. They have already carried out four landings today, two of which were precautionary, overweight landings. The commander's flight time duty limit lapsed at 9 pm, but AI might get a dispensation from the aviation regulator. The pilots are fatigued since they’ve been on duty for 12 hours,” the source added. 
 
 At the time of going to press, it was not known whether the two pilots operated the ferry with the faulty aircraft back to Mumbai. “A lot of planning is required to operate a flight with the undercarriage down and a fatigued set of pilots shouldn't be told to do that,” the official added. 
 
 In March 2015, the Indian Commercial Pilots’ Association, an AI union, had written to the aviation regulator, Directorate General of Civil Aviation, about the frequent technical problems these old aircraft face. “The classic A320s, over 20 years old, are being operated with repetitive snags endangering flight safety. The   should not permit AI to operate these lethal, snag-prone classic aircraft in lieu of passenger safety,” said the ICPA letter sent two years ago. 
 
 
