NEW DELHI: One comes from Ghonda village in congested  , the other is from Mitraon village in the far northwest. One has experienced caste discrimination and the other has struggled against the stigma of being a resident of the capital’s most notorious gang-war zone. Both are lawyers and first-time MLAs, who have now been chosen by   to fill the vacuum created in his cabinet by the removal of   and Kapil Mishra. The duo’s selection will have to be first approved by the President, after which lieutenant governor Anil Baijal will administer the oath of office to them.

 Rajendra Gautam, the 49-year-old Seemapuri MLA, is not the most vocal of Aam Aadmi Party’s legislators, but the practising  , who joined politics only in 2015 in response to AAP’s promise of change, has been quietly sitting on various assembly committees. In the two years in the party, Gautam is known to have gained the trust of Kejriwal.
 
 Son of an income-tax notice server, Gautam’s story is an impetus to the marginalised to overcome injustices and embrace new opportunities. The social tipping point came when he was a student of Class VI in a school in Ghonda. “At my sister’s wedding, the baraat was denied access to a road by a certain community,” the MLA told TOI. “The incident left an indelible mark on my mind and in the years following, I have tried to help Dalits, from imparting education to young children to becoming an Amedkarite.” In his new role as minister, Gautam will seek to use this experience to ensure social justice for all.
 
 Like Gautam, Najafgarh MLA Kailash Gahlot too has an agenda that melds both his personal as well political objectives. Born in a farming family in Mitraon village and son of a teacher, Gahlot has always been associated in public life — he was president of the students’ union in Delhi University’s Venkateswara College — with Najafgarh. “Unfortunately, to people in Delhi Najafgarh means gang wars. I want Delhi to recognise Najafgarh for its development, not its image,” Gahlot said.
 
 A lawyer who practises in Delhi high court, Gahlot has been closely involved with the welfare activities of his family trust. And it was this zeal for social change that made fight and win the assembly elections in 2015 as an   candidate. In his constituency, Gahlot has yoked technology for development. For instance, he has mapped all public utilities in his areas and tagged them on Google Maps. This provides him real-time status check on the projects he is undertaking in Najafgarh.
 
 He has also tagged on Google Maps all water bodies in Najafgarh and can access their real-time pictures. The legislator is now working with the departments concerned to make water bodies in Kair and Mitraon usable through the year. He has a similar aim in his work as a minister: to bridge the urban and rural gap and bring the issues related to the outskirts right to the heart of the city. 
 
