BHOPAL: Ahead of   in 2018, the BJP plans to enact the coup of 2013 when it had successfully managed to win over senior   and deputy leader of opposition, Rakesh Singh Chaturvedi in the party fold. This time, BJP is eyeing on two senior   leaders who have crossed swords with the party’s state leadership on the issue of `performance’.

 The two Congress leaders were facing a similar situation like the one faced by Rakesh Singh and the then Congress leader Sanjay Pathak, who is now a minister in Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet. Pathak is believed to be playing a crucial role in the defection plan, said sources in the BJP.
 
 “One of the senior Congress leaders had plans to quit the party during January last year. But, since party gave him due respect and position, he postponed his plans. Recently, after his alleged involvement in violation of Wild Life Act and party's inclination towards Divijaya Singh camp, he has again changed his mind,” said a senior leader in Congress.
 
 A similar situation could be seen for other leaders who had been lobbying for leader of opposition post in Congress and were rejected by AICC. A few leaders who had been guided by their mentors were also unhappy over the decisions taken within the party.
 
 “Groupism was at its peak in the Congress when it faced humiliating defeat in 2013 assembly elections in Madhya Pradesh. Despite caution by Rahul Gandhi to unite, Congress satraps decided to promote their own ‘favourites' to play ‘kingmaker’ but, failed. Now, again a similar situation has occurred, when leaders active in the party were sidelined and ignored,” sources added.
 
 The leaders have also referred decisions taken by other leaders like Narayan Tripathi, who at present is MLA from Maihar (Satna), Rao Uday Pratap Singh, a Lok Sabha member from Hoshangabad, Dr Bhagirath Prasad, who disliked BJP throughout his life but left Congress to contest from Bhind and got elected to Lok Sabha in 2014. 
 
 Turncoats like Sanjay Pathak (Congress), Parasram Mudgal (BSP), Dinesh Ahirwar (Congress), Rakesh Shukla (Loktantrik Samajwadi Party), Radhelal Baghel (BSP), Mahendra Singh (BSP) and recently, Shivkumar Urmalia (Congress) joined BJP before assembly elections.
 
 “These all are speculations. BJP is busy in implementing public welfare schemes and assembly elections are far away at the end of next year. There is no plan to divide Congress,” said BJP state vice-president Vijesh Lunawat.
 
