That flash of intense brightness and the ear-rending sound still linger in Vinod Poddar’s memory. The traumatised 51-year-old Supreme Court employee has refused to set foot in Sarojini Nagar Market ever since. "I tell my wife to go and do her shopping while I wait near Surender Sweets in the Babu Market corner," he says. 

 Poddar was with his children near the Shyam Juice Corner in Sarojini Nagar Market that day when the deadly bomb went off. His own leg was hit by shrapnel, but all his thoughts were on his children. His seven-year-old son Karan was lying nearby severely injured. His 12-year-old daughter Diksha too suffered 55% burns and multiple fractures. "I couldn’t recognise my son when I picked him up. I tried to rush my children to hospital though my leg was not holding up, leaving me on the verge of collapse," he recalls.
 
 A few hours earlier, the Poddar family was in a festive mood. "It was Dhanteras, and like any other father I too had taken my kids shopping," he says, remembering how crammed the market had been that day and ruing that fate had placed him right where the bomb had been hidden.
 
 Karan succumbed to his injuries in hospital. Diksha, who has since graduated from Delhi University but still has bad moments, had to undergo plastic surgery. "The noise of the blast affected her hearing too, and she needed extensive treatment. She still suffers ear problems occasionally," says Poddar.
 
 After his leg was amputated, Poddar required a prosthetic limb. Rehabilitation was a painful process. "I became handicapped and spent a year in bed, but the government paid me a mere Rs 1 lakh as compensation," says the burly man. He was reimbursed for the artificial limb, but he has been unable to get the government to respond to his request for a new limb after the older one crumbled over a dozen years of use. "The government has not followed up on the status of the victims," he regrets. "It would help if the government set up a committee to listen to our grievances."
 
 Poddar insists the attackers should not be forgiven, though he says he does not know who they are or seen their faces. "But for a crime as dastardly as this, the court must punish the terrorists," he declares, "and in such a manner that the shockwaves will hit their handlers too."
 
 
