WASHINGTON: US President Donald   blasted the Seattle court ruling blocking the nationwide immigration ban on Twitter on Saturday. “The opinion of this so-called judge, which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country, is ridiculous and will be overturned!” Trump tweeted after administration officials had said they would challenge the ruling.

  
  An earlier   statement said the justice department would file for an emergency stay of the “outrageous” ruling from the judge at the earliest. “The president’s order is intended to protect the homeland and he has the constitutional authority and responsibility to protect the American people,” the statement said.
 
 A revised statement issued later omitted the word “outrageous” for fear of provoking the court, but Trump was blunt in calling the ruling “ridiculous”.
 
 Some of the earlier rulings had selectively allowed stranded passengers to return to their resident states, but the Washington judge went further than other rulings by ordering a nationwide injunction of the Trump order.
 
 The court ruling came from Judge James Robart after the state had challenged the executive order arguing it was separating families, damaging the states’ economies, and undermining their “sovereign interest in remaining a welcoming place for immigrants and refugees”.
 
 States which have won injunction against the Presidential order are all typically better-educated, higher-income, more open to immigrants, and have a more diverse population.
 
 Justifying his broad ruling, the judge cited the precedent of a federal district court in Texas that had blocked President Barack Obama’s plan to shield some undocumented immigrants from deportation nationwide and allow them to legally work in the US.
 
 In another tweet, Trump said, “when a country is no longer able to say who can, and who cannot come in & out, especially for reasons of safety &security - big trouble!” He also claimed some West Asian countries supported his order, without naming them.
 
 The upshot of the rulings is that several students and researchers from the seven red-flagged countries, including accomplished academics who held green cards, are now allowed to return to the United States till such time the Trump administration gets the ruling overturned.
 
 Several have already made it back to US and more are expected in the narrow window before the government gets the ruling overturned, as is widely expected.
 
