PUNE: The government’s Make in India campaign was just beginning to gather steam when demonetisation struck at the root of the manufacturing industry, comprising the micro, small and medium scale enterprises. A bulk of these units used cash for making payments. The sector is now hoping the Union budget will revive its fortunes.

 “There is a possibility of increase in bad loans from this sector. In our pre-budget consultation with the government, we have asked for the bad   classification limit to be raised from current 90 days to 180 days. The market is volatile and the demand is low. The government must find ways to bring down the cost of funds for enterprises to single digits,” said Milind Kamble, founder director, Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry (DICCI), Pune.
 
 DICCI has also asked for two separate venture capital funds of Rs 200 crore each for the schedule tribe and schedule caste entrepreneurs.
 
 The key, industry players believe, is to   demand for the immediate revival of the manufacturing sector.
 
 “The budget should give a boost to the manufacturing sector by initiating measures to create demand, which will come through income tax sops to individuals and reduction in interest rates. The government also needs to reduce corporate taxes,” said Anant Sardeshmukh, director general, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture, Pune.
 
 Pradeep Bhargava, director of Cummins India and former chairman of Confederation of Indian Industries, said that the budget should increase fund allocation on both physical and social infrastructure projects.
 
 Job creation remains a big challenge for the government and past increase in growth has not translated into proportionate generation of new jobs, according to government’s own estimates.
 
 “The government has to resort to more investment. There are many big infrastructural projects on stream in Pune region. If the government considers extending further grants for urban transportation, water treatment, sewage disposal etc, Pune can be a beneficiary and it can lead to more jobs in this region too,” said Sardeshmukh.
 
 The auto industry has also suffered quite a lot in the aftermath of demonetisation. Sales have all plummeted in varying degrees since November 8. The industry believes incentives for replacement of old vehicles can generate more demand.
 
 “It is suggested that all types of vehicles which are over 15 years old should be replaced. Also, there should be a policy to incentivise the buyers by extending reduced excise duty on a new vehicle purchased after surrendering the old vehicle to the manufacturing company. This would boost domestic demand and reduce environmental pollution,” said Ranbir Singh, president, Association of Indian Forging Industry.
 
 
