PUNE:   has changed the  , so much so that politicians, uneasy about being watched for  , are inventing new ways to keep voters happy. 

 A prominent politician who distributed one lakh plates to women voters in his constituency on Makar Sankranti did not spend a paisa from his pocket — three sponsors stepped in. Voters received gifts with the corporator’s wishes, but did not know who had paid for them. Other politicians who ‘gifted’ saris to his voters opted for a similar tactic. 
 
 Political   have not finalized their list of candidates, but aspirants confident of getting tickets have started their campaign. 
 
 “Demonetisation has changed poll dynamics. Not many corporators have huge deposits as they have disposed of the old currency. Many don’t have the huge cash in new currency. Others are wary of withdrawing from the banks or paying by cheque because they fear the government may crack down on them,” a senior sitting corporator said. He added that a majority of the aspirants have been telling their sponsors, including builders, developers, contractors, businessmen and traders, to help them by providing gift items instead of cash.
 
 Some aspirants have started religious tours for the voters in their panels. “One sponsor arranged for the buses while another provided the lunch and dinner. The aspirant was not in the picture at all,” admitted a resident in Sahakarnagar where religious tours were organized last week. 
 
 “The sponsors are willing to provide gifts instead of cash as they want to save themselves from government agencies. The actual problem will start when nominations are finalized and we start campaigning in the areas where people want cash for voting. It is going to be a challenge to collect cash and distribute it to voters,” an election strategy planner who works for some senior corporators said. Elected members are approaching bigwigs requesting for cash in the last stages of the election. 
 
 A seasoned politician admitted that demonetisation has upset the plans of many corporators and aspirants who had stashed away money for the civic polls. “Preparations for the polls start quite early and many politicians were ready with their cash. Demonetisation is a shock and the entire strategy had to be changed,” he said. 
 
 All party corporators in the city agree that fighting a civic election in Pune is expensive. However, as per the state election commission, a notification for the expense limit per candidate for an A category municipal corporation like Pune is Rs 5 lakh.
 
 Corporators across party lines admitted that one needs at least Rs 3-4 crore to contest civic polls depending on the locality and profile of voters. In some pockets, where voters are committed to a political party, elected members have to spend less than Rs 1 crore. 
 
