NEW DELHI: The monsoon in July was bang in the middle of the normal range at the all-India level, in what generally augers well for sowing of rabi crop. 

 However, a 
  recurring during the month led to heavy showers in the more arid regions of the country while the south missed out in a big way.
 
 Overall, at the halfway mark of the June-September season, the monsoon stands at 2% above normal, in keeping with expectations of good rainfall this year. 
 
 Rains in July had a 0% deviation from the long period average — higher than the India Meteorological Department’s forecast of a 4% deficit in the month. But while the big picture may look good, the rainfall distribution was highly skewed.
 
 The   and Kutch region of   and western Rajasthan got a disproportionately high share of rain, leading to massive flooding in many areas, while the deficit in south India was a huge 36% for the month.
 
 “Low-pressure systems usually form in the Bay of Bengal during the monsoon season and move west over the Indian landmass, causing rain over areas in their path.
 
 During July, most systems followed a more northern path than usual, and invariably ended up in Gujarat or south Rajasthan,” said D Sivananda Pai, head of IMD’s long-range forecasting. 
 
 Pai said, some low-pressure systems formed over Gujarat and Rajasthan, and caused rains while interacting moist winds from the west known as western disturbances.
 
 In the absence of largescale features such as   or La Nina conditions in the   that impact overall precipitation patterns, monsoon rainfall this year has largely depended on more local features such as low-pressure systems.
 
 However, Pai said a highly unpredictable weather disturbance in the equatorial region called a Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) has become active in the east  . 
 
 “This will lead to a break-like situation in the monsoon which could continue for a week,” Pai said. In the wake of MJO, rain activity is expected to shift to the Himalayan region while central India could be largely dry during the first week of August.
 
 Monsoon was 6% above normal in northwest India, largely because of Rajasthan getting heavy rains. Punjab, Haryana and west UP got good showers in the first half of the month but started showing a deficit by the end of July. 
 
 A similar pattern was seen in western Maharashtra, while MP, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand got good spells.
 
