 
  
 
 
 If you live in  , chances are you’ve spotted a group of people doing what might look like walking a tight rope, to the uninitiated. This group of around 15 enthusiasts are actually practising their sport of choice – slacklining - and can be seen going at it every Sunday for about three to four hours. Relatively new to the city, slacklining is a sport that is said to have originated in America, but is popular across the world now, with several variations that its practitioners can indulge in. Basic slacklining involves balancing oneself on a line that is tied between two anchor points (like trees, for example). But if that’s too easy for you, feel free to try your hand at   (slacklining over a water body),   (doing a series of tricks or even yoga, while balancing on the line) or   (walking the line while suspended between cliffs) for a challenge.
  
  
 
  “I am a rock climber and when one of the climbers in my group started slacklining, we all became hooked,” says Tanmayi Gith, a BA student from the city, adding that a lot of people who are into outdoor activities take up the sport instantly. And in case you’re wondering why, that’s because all that balancing on the line has physical benefits, like developing your core for instance. Shedding some more light, Samar Farooqui, a Mumbai-based adventure tourism professional, who was among the first few to start slacklining in India says, “The sport is as much mental, as it is physical. You need to concentrate and relax to be able to balance and like any other sport, the more you practice, the more you benefit.” Samar, whose   is organising slackline meetups to help spread word and grow the community across the country, points out that if you can balance on one leg for more than three seconds, you are ready to be introduced to the line.
  
  
  
  
 
  Yes, the slackline community is aware that you will probably mistake them for a group of clowns practising their act when you see them in a park for the first time (wait till you see them suspend hammocks between cliffs for a snooze). But that does not stop them from setting up their lines in parks, to practise and popularise the sport. In fact, the communities in cities like Bengaluru and Delhi have grown in numbers simply because park visitors got curious, asked for a go at the line and got hooked. Sadly, Pune’s parks are being a tad hostile towards this new community. “I’ve been thrown out of every park in the city,” says engineering student Bhupesh Patil, who has been slacklining for two years. “When we set up in gardens and parks, people ask to try and we are happy to let them. In fact parents have seen us doing this and asked if they can send their children to us for practice. But now we are doing it in private spaces because it’s difficult to get permission to do it in public spaces,” he adds, sharing that a little support from city authorities will help the community grow. 
  
  
 
  What any slackliner will tell you, is that the sport brings people together. Though you are on your own once you get on the line, you make a lot of friends with varied interests at a practise session. Currently, Delhi and Bengaluru are the cities with the largest groups of slackliners and are growing steadily thanks to parks that are friendly towards the community. “We have started looking like a circus,” laughs yoga instructor and slackliner Saurabh Ketkar from Bengaluru, whose group sets up at Cubbon Park every Sunday. “Our group has a juggler, a couple of poi spinners , a guy who uses a contact staff, etc, so you get to see a lot of different activities at our session.” In fact, the better you get at balancing, the more tricks or combinations you can start trying – like bouncing on the rope or practising yoga on it.
  
  
  
  
 
  Though the slacklining community in Pune is quite young, they got a chance to host the country’s first ever slack festival,  , that was organised during the New Year weekend. Taking place in Lonavla, the event saw a gathering of slackliners from Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai and Pune too, with several newcomers being inducted into the world of balancing on a tight line. While you are welcome to head to Montreal Business Park in Baner to meet Pune’s slackliners, there’s going to be a gathering of international slackliners in Goa this weekend, where you a waterlining meeting is set to take place. The order of the day will be slacklining over a river near Palolem beach, we’re told.
  
  
 
  While the community is happy to share, you need to get your own equipment if you intent to take up slacklining seriously. A beginners kit can cost you just around Rs 2,500 and you can find one at  , in the city. But be warned, highlining and tricklining require kits and more equipment that are designed specifically for those purposes, and also require a lot of practice with professionals to guide you. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
