Hubballi: Heavy rain lashed parts of north Karnataka on Thursday leaving four people dead, including three children, while over 2,500 houses were damaged in Davanagere city.

 Three children died when lightning struck them at Goudigiri village in Yadagiri taluk on Thursday evening. They were grazing sheep on a field when the incident occurred. The deceased have been identified as Nagaraj Pujari (12), Nagendramma Pujari (10) and Kareppa Pujari.
 
 Another person died when he was hit by lightning at Ennivadageri village. The deceased, Nagappa Hosamani, was standing under a tree on his field when lightning struck him.
 
 Heavy downpour in Davanagere and Harihar towns threw life out of gear on Thursday evening. The KSRTC bus stand, vegetable market and Ashoka road areas in Davanagere were inundated. The government hospital in Harihar town was also reportedly flooded, leaving patients helpless
 
 Over 2,500 houses were damaged due to rain in Davanagere city alone, leaving several people homeless. The affected families have been shifted to temporary shelters arranged by the district administration. Deputy Commissioner D S Ramesh said five gruel centres have also been opened for the purpose.
 
 “Over 250 families from Chikkanahalli, 30 each from Neelammana Thota and Nittuvalli were affected. We can pay Rs 95,100 as compensation to each damaged house, but there is no provision for illegally built houses. At the same time, we are distributing cheques of Rs 3,800 to each affected family under the state natural calamity fund,” Ramesh said.
 
 A land of over eight acres has been identified at Boosanur Hatti near Davanagere to build a housing complex as a permanent solution for all those who have lost their houses, the DC said. A proposal in this regard would be sent to the government shortly, he added.
 
 District minister S S Mallikarjun, mayor Anithabayi Malathesh and the DC visited the flood-affected areas.
 
 Agriculture fields were inundated due to heavy rain in several parts of Gadag district.   was thrown out of gear at Gadag-Betageri, Naragund, Lakshmeshwar, Naregal and Mundaragi.
 
 Vijayapura, too, witnessed rain for more than two hours in the afternoon. The sudden downpour, accompanied by thunderbolt and lightning, flooded major roads resulting in waterlogging.
 
 Several areas in Ballari district — Kottur, Gadiganur, Toranagallu and parts of Hosapete — received rain for more than two hours. However, no damage was reported.
 
 
