PATNA: The Patna   on Monday dismissed the two different public interest litigations (PIL) challenging the formation of new JD(U)-BJP government in  .

 The division bench of Chief justice Rajendra Menon and Justice AK Upadhyay ruled that the supreme constitutional principle of floor test, which time and again has been underlined by the Supreme   in several cases, has been followed in the formation of the new government in Bihar.
 
 One of the PILs was filed jointly by RJD MLAs Saroj Yadav and Chandan Kumar while the other was by one former mukhiya Jitendra Kumar from Naubatpur in Patna district against the governor’s decision not to invite RJD, the single largest party, to form government after   resigned as the chief minister on Wednesday. 
 
 The petitioners also cited the ground of Supreme Court ruling in SR Bommai vs Union of India case of 1996 and Rameshwar Prasad vs Union of India of 2006. However, the court clarified that the apex court, in Bommai case, had laid down that the main criteria for formation of government was floor test and in the present case, the newly formed government won the trust vote in the assembly.
 
 “Why did not you mention in the petition anything about the number of MLAs supporting RJD. The floor test has been conducted and you got the opportunity to prove yourself,” the bench told the petitioners. “We will not allow this court to be converted into a political arena,” the court remarked.
 
 The petitioners’ counsels pleaded that RJD should had been invited by the governor to form the government. They also pleaded that governor Keshari Nath Tripathi had given RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav time to meet him at 11am on Thursday but Nitish was sworn in at 10am itself. “The oath taking ceremony timing was suddenly preponed to 10am from 5pm, but the governor did not change the time to meet the leader of the largest party,” they argued.
 
 The court also pointed out that there was nothing in the petition about the legality or illegality of the floor test and their only contention was that the petitioners’ party being the single largest one should have been invited by the governor to form government.
 
 Advocate general Lalit Kishore, appearing for the state, pleaded that the floor test was conducted and government has successfully proven its majority.
 
 
