
 
 
 We want to bring in focus on research and innovation and allow good universities and colleges to be independent. Through the higher education finance agency, for which Rs 2,000 crore is committed in budgets, we will leverage these funds through debt instruments from the market and raise nearly Rs 20,000 crore. The agency is Canara Bank and it is operational now. We will raise money and give it to higher education institutions. Good institutions will get funds, which they will return from their internal resources after a decent gap. This will push and create research infrastructure as well as plug infrastructure deficits. For IITs, project ' ' will fund efforts to improve research and innovative capabilities. 
 
  
 
 Under RUSA (Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan), for quality improvement in colleges even in remote areas, we are giving laboratories and academic halls if required and special purpose infrastructure for good amenities for students. Besides, there is 'Swayam' - India's own MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses) - to be relayed online for the first time. We have prepared and are testing 300 courses. We will launch it very soon and we will take the number of courses to 2,000. Its lecture, material, tutorial, interaction, examination and content will be on e-model. The same courses will be available on 36 Doordarshan DTH channels so that remote places get access to these.
 
  
 
 Apart from upscaling research laboratories to retain the best brains and innovate, we are starting the PM scholarships, which is Rs 75,000 per month for best students who have real innovative projects on hand. Also, we have successfully conducted our hackathon. As many as 42,000 engineering candidates worked on 300 problem statements given by 30 ministries to find digital solutions for public convenience. We are taking 300 innovative ideas forward to convert the code into a product. 
 
  
 
 The stumbling block in basic reforms has been UGC and AICTE, the regulators. They would issue circulars after finding something was wrong. So we made a shift, which is you can't make rules keeping in mind the malpractices of some institutes. But rules must be in a graded fashion. The best institutes must be given more freedom of action and more autonomy. 
 
 
 We are revamping our ODL rules and for the first time, bringing in rules for online learning. So there has to be some regulation to ensure quality and justice as our priority is accessibility, accountability, equity and affordability. We are also working on a national testing agency for all examinations conducted by the CBSE. 
 
  
 
 We value private investment and private education's role in expansion of education. But CBSE schools are expected to charge reasonable fees. Parents are complaining of unreasonable practices in sale of books to uniforms and fees. So we said everybody has to be reasonable. We will definitely look into the issue. We have not taken a decision on regulation, but we can't be blind to parents' complaints either.
 
 
 On three-language formula, there is a   resolution of 1968 and therefore what we are thinking is that instead of making it a complicated issue, the simple formula should be that students can opt for any three languages out of the 22 languages mentioned in the schedule of Constitution and English. Out of 23 languages, one can opt for any three languages. It's the choice of the student and we are not going to impose any language or make any language compulsory.
 
 As far as   books are concerned, parents came and told me that a set of NCERT books available for Rs 900 was available at Rs 9,000 from private publishers. This year, we asked CBSE schools to voluntarily come forward and take NCERT books and 2,000 schools came forward.
 
 
