DARBHANGA: Altogether 24 postgraduate toppers in 2015 examinations were awarded gold medals at the 7th convocation of   (LNMU) held in Dr Nagendra Jha stadium here on Friday. LNMU vice-chancellor   presided over the function in the absence of chancellor Ram Nath Kovind, who could not attend the convocation due to inclement weather conditions. Out of the 24 toppers, 16 were girls, including Kumari Ragini in MSc (Biotechnology), Divya in mathematics and Bhavna Jha (MBA). More than 500 students, including postgraduate pass-outs and PhD degree holders were also given certificates at the convocation.
 
  Prof  , VC of  , delivered the convocation address. Revenue and land reforms minister Madan Mohan Jha was the guest of honour. The convocation started with the university ‘Kulgeet’.
  
  Kushwaha read out the presidential address of chancellor Kovind, who remembered the contribution of late Maharajadhiraj Kameshwar Singh in the field of education. “LNMU is the testimony to his generous and large donations. During its 45 years of existence, this university has made many exemplary achievements. In the field of women empowerment, this university is running a women’s institute of technology (WIT), which was inaugurated by the then President of India late APJ   in 2005. Kalam had contributed a lot in the establishment of WIT. This university has introduced centralized online admission system in its constituent and affiliated colleges. The role of LNMU has been praiseworthy in the field of NAAC accreditation of colleges, because one-third of the accreditated colleges of the state belong to LNMU. In PG teaching, LNMU has framed syllabus in different subjects on choice-based credit system. Biometric system of attendance has also been introduced in some colleges of this university,” the VC read the chancellor speech.
  
  Delivering the convocation address, the BHU VC said Kashi and Mithila have an intricate relationship. Mentioning the way of receiving true knowledge, Tripathi said 25% knowledge is obtained from the books, 25% from classroom teaching, 25% from personal experience and rest from interactions in real life. Addressing the degree holders, he said they have a duty towards society and nation, which they must fulfil. Real scholars are those who groom illiterates as scholars. “Aaj deekkshant samaroh hai, ‘shikhshant’ samaroh nahi (Today is the convocation and not the end of education). Education is a continuous and lifelong process, Tripathi said.
