KOLKATA: Brace for a chock-a-block start to the week as the   vows to stall the city and “shake the government” and promises to lead   from   of the city and Howrah towards Nabanna to protest against a  , including   and unemployment in the state.

 A similar protest two years ago saw the Left supporters fight a pitched battle with police throwing traffic out of gear in several parts of the city and Howrah. The police and protesters had then clashed at Dufferin Road and Turf View Road in Kolkata and Mandirtala in Howrah. Left Front chairman Biman Bose was hit on the head by a brick and around 32 policemen suffered injuries.
 
 On Monday, the Left front plans a similar protest and apologized in advance at a news conference on Sunday. “Traffic congestion is bound to happen at certain places. We cannot help it but the issues we are raising need to be heard,” said Madan Ghosh, a CPM state committee member on Sunday. “However, we are not taking the march route via Howrah bridge and Nivedita Setu this time. This will ease commuter movement,” he added.
 
 On Monday, the Left Front supporters plans to gather at five places and then march towards the state secretariat. These places are Rani Rashmoni Avenue at the heart of the city, Kidderpore in south Kolkata, Police Training School near the race course, Santragachhi on Kona Expressway and Howrah Rail Museum near Howrah station.
 
 But what the leadership did not mention was that supporters would also be marching from Howrah station, Sealdah station, Behala, Garia, Basanti, Barasat and Barrackpore choking all major roads, including EM Bypass, Park Circus connector, D H Road, C R Avenue, B T Road, VIP Road, S N Banerjee Road, J L Nehru Road, Hospital Road and Lenin Sarani.
 
 Police, however, said they were ready to tackle the challenge. “Around 2000 policemen will be on duty under supervision of senior officers. We will not tolerate any sort of indiscipline and take necessary action as and when required,” said a senior officer of Kolkata Police, adding that they would not allow the protesters to reach the secretariat.
 
 The Left Front leadership, however, said they would sit on a dharna wherever they would be stopped by police.
 
