NAVI MUMBAI: Authorities have finally reached out to the   who survived a   and an attempted   and continued to live on the streets of Navi Mumbai. She has been assured of compensation and rehabilitation.

 Two men were sentenced to death last week for her gangrape and the gangrape and murder of a co-worker five years ago. 
 
 TOI facilitated the 25-year-old survivor’s meeting with senior police inspector, CBD police station, Sangeeta Shinde Alphonso, as well as some social activists outside Vashi railway station on Tuesday.
 
 “At present, I do not have any proper identity card or a formal document with which I can start looking for a better job. I’ve been picking plastic bottles and other trash since I was 12, but I want to do something better now,” the   told Alphonso who, in turn, said the department will help her procure official documents.
 
 Following a recent TOI report which quoted the survivor as saying that nothing had changed for her since the crime, several readers and activists came forward to help her, including Kalpana Chhatre of   and Uday Veer Singh of Sarva Samaj Trust.
 
 “She (the survivor) has been living and struggling on the city’s streets since childhood as her parents had died early. She withstood physical and emotional trauma of the gangrape and murder in 2012 to bravely give an eyewitness account of the crime, leading to the death sentence of the two convicted men. It is time society did something for her,” said Chhatre.
 
 In May 2012, the survivor and her co-worker were asked by the two convicted men to meet them under the   flyover on the pretext of discussing “catering jobs”. The two sexually assaulted and stabbed both the women; the survivor’s friend subsequently died. 
 
 “I am thankful to police madam (Alphonso) and the social workers for the help promised. After I gave my eyewitness statement to cops and lawyers, I lost touch with them as I don’t have a fixed address. Now, I am happy to have met them again after a long time,” she said.
 
 The activists have advised her to take care of her health and not drink. “Since I sleep outside Vashi station complex, sometimes men try to harass me. I am an illiterate orphan. There is a lot of stress, tension and anger inside me,” she said.
 
 As per the Thane sessions court order by additional sessions Judge S C Khalipe, the death sentence will not be executed unless confirmed by the Bombay high court, under Section 366 of the Criminal Procedure Code.
 
