PUNE: Hand-held high-tech devices can be a pain in the neck, literally.

 Fifteen-year-old Shruti learned this the hard way. She started experiencing upper back pain on and off about a month ago. After a visit to a doctor, she was told that the main reason for her problem was her new smartphone.
 
 In other words, Shruti was diagnosed with ‘text neck syndrome’, which commonly occurs due to bending of the neck down to look at handheld devices. 
 
 Shruti’s is not a case in isolation, a sizable number of young adults, especially teenagers and college-goers, are falling prey to the smartphone-induced spinal and joint problems, experts said.
 
 “We see about four to five patients with text neck syndrome every week. Some of them belong to the age group as young as six years. It is more prevalent in youngsters,” orthopaedic surgeon Kiran Shete said. 
 
 “Neck is created to support the weight of the head. But with forward bending posture while looking at smartphone screens, this load is aggravated leading to stress on the neck spine. The prolonged posture leads to neck discomfort, pain and stiffness,” he said.
 
 “Holding head in a forward and downward position for long causes injury to the deep muscles of the neck and across the shoulders causing both acute and chronic neck and shoulder pain,” he said.
 
 As far as the treatment for the condition goes, it does not just include medications, but also physiotherapy and posture-correction training. “We also work on de-addiction from smartphone,” Shete said.
 
 “A rise in use of smartphones and hours spent on desktop have together contributed in the rise in number of text neck syndrome cases. If the problem is not treated timely, people might suffer from permanent damage of cervical spine,” spine surgeon   said.
 
 Orthopaedic surgeon Ramesh Ranka said, “Practising good postures is key to avoid the condition.”
 
 “Lack of exercise, nutritional deficiencies and sedentary habits tend to weaken muscles, making people easy prey to the condition,” ophthalmologist  , vice-president of Indian Medical Association, Pune chapter, said. Consultant psychologist Monali Naidu said, “Smartphones were invented to improve distant relations, but continuous use of these devices is actually ruining human relationships now.”
 
