BENGALURU: The main event of the   kicked off on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday at   in  , with   carrying the Karaga, a  , in a procession. 

 The 11-day event, which began on April 3 with Dhwajarohana (flag hoisting), saw several rituals being performed each day thereafter. The narrow streets around the temple was bustling with activities since Tuesday morning. Festivities began early in the morning with Bale Shastra (ritual of adorning the goddess with bangles), which the Tigala community believes, is when the Karaga-bearer takes the form of the goddess. A representative of the community carries the Karaga every year.
 
 The rituals culminated with the beginning of the procession, which ends the next morning. It is believed that the procession brings peace and happiness to the people of Bengaluru. Hundreds of Bengalureans take part in the festivities and the procession. Members of the Tigala community eat only one meal for 9 days before the final event.
 
 “On this day, it is good to offer lemon rice and curd rice at least to five people,” says Raghavendracharya, a priest from Udupi . 
 
 Members of the Tigala community, also known as Vahni Kula Kshatriyas, believe the legend from the Mahabharata where Draupadi, the wife of Pandavas, took the help of their community when she was in trouble. It is said that the Pandavas were ascending the heavens when Draupadi fell unconscious but they failed to notice her absence. She created the Tigala community during her incarnation as Adishakti to kill Tripurasura, a demon, and pleased with their efforts, she promised to return to Earth once a year on the first full moon day of the first month in the Hindu calendar.
 
 Every day of the festival has its own significance derived from the last part of the ancient epic and the final event is carried out by the bearer chosen by the heads of the Tigala community. He bears the Karaga which consists of 7 clay pots, weighing approximately 10 kilograms. Each of these pots represent the Arishadvargas which are believed to be the enemies of the man.
 
 
