Chandigarh: Punjab police is busy strengthening its second line of defence by putting up additional check posts in the border areas of the state as a precautionary measure during the monsoon season. Incidentally, it is exactly two years after the Dinanagar attack that took place on July 27.

 Punjab Police Housing Corporation has been tasked with constructing around two dozen check posts districts like Gurdaspur, Ferozepur and Tarn Taran that will help the state police keep an eye not just on the cross-border activities but also the local anti-social elements.
 
 IG (Border Range) Naunihal Singh told TOI that vulnerability along the border increases during inclement weather and these check posts would help ensure that there was no breach in security in the border areas. “At the same time, these will help in keeping a check on the local activities in the areas,” he said.
 
 Sources, meanwhile, added that there had been demands from locals to step up surveillance to control anti-social elements and petty criminals operating in the area. Last year, the Indian Army's military intelligence (MI) unit had written to Punjab police about gangs of criminals operating in the border areas of Punjab, stating that they may be affecting the country's national security. The letter said criminals operating from state jails were running extortion rackets at military stations.
 
 Three heavily-armed terrorists wearing Army fatigues, had stormed a police station in Dinanagar town in Gurdaspur district on July 27 two years ago killing seven people, including a Superintendent of Police, before they were gunned down during a day-long operation.
 
 Last year, the army had conducted a joint mock drill with the Punjab Police in Pathankot to see their preparedness to thwart any attempted terrorists strike, ahead of terror attack at Dinanagar completing a year.
 
 A report by Punjab’s department of planning points out: “The areas bordering Pakistan are more hostile than others. The reason has been that decade-long terrorism in Punjab multiplied various problems of the state, such as illegal migration, drug trafficking, illegal trade, crime, insurgency, and killing of innocent civilians. In order to check these problems, more number of security personnel had been continuously deployed. The people living in border areas have been facing socio-economic problems and psychological tensions.”
 
 
