JAIPUR: With current   (2016–2017) nearing to its end,   (JMC) expedited its drive to achieve the target of   (UD) tax and   from  .

 Continuing its drive on Monday, the vigilance team sealed Gem Cinema along with five other establishments in Moti Doongri and Vidhyadhar Nagar (VD) zone.
 
 JMC recovered Rs 6.96 lakh after sealing Gem Cinema near Sanganeri Gate. JMC also sealed a Krishnam marriage garden in VD zone during wedding ceremony. The team sealed the garden’s office with people present in the ceremony.
 
 JMC recovered Rs 4.19 lakh   by sealing Tiggy Superstore Private Limited. After collecting taxes from Gem Cinema and superstore, the civic body opened the seal of these two units.
 
 The corporation also sealed office of Punjabi Corporative Housing Society Limited as its due was Rs 37.16 lakh. A JMC official informed, “Despite issuing notices to these defaulters several times, drive to attach the property was carried out. We would continue our drive against more defaulters.”
 
 It was decided in recent general body meeting (GBM) to disconnect sewerage connection of the people who have defaulted on payment of UD tax after seven-day from issuing notice.
 
 JMC will also serve notices to 1.26 lakh defaulters of UD tax as an ultimatum, after which it will block the sewerage lines of property owners. To start with, it has prepared a list of 695 defaulters who owe more than Rs five lakh dues.
 
 The list comprise Central and state government offices, properties of erstwhile royal family of Jaipur, media houses, marriage homes, hotels and influential private owners. As per the figures released by JMC, 1.26 lakh people have not paid their UD taxes which amounts to Rs 700 crore. However, it is just 695 people who owe Rs 350 crore, almost half of the total amount.
 
 Among 695, major defaulters include, state government owned departments like Rajasthan Avasan Mandal, RUIDP, Rajasthan Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited, bus stand. There are temples, NGOs, media organizations and jewellers along with properties of erstwhile royal family. Hotels, resorts and marriage homes, some owned by the politicians too are also among the biggest defaulters.
 
 
