NEW DELHI: Looking to nip a major bugbear ahead of assembly polls, PM   on Saturday exhorted   office-bearers and leaders not to seek tickets for their kith and kin at the expense of deserving party workers.

 “Please don’t put pressure for securing tickets for your family members, whether a brother, a sister or children. Party will do justice to all. We have to work unitedly to win all the five states,” PM said in a pitch which should ensure that party president   gets a free hand in the distribution of tickets.
 
 In fact, PM praised the functioning of BJP under Shah by highlighting the rapport between the government and organisation. “They have been working in tandem and it helps both with the implementation of schemes as well as the feedback that government needs to improve delivery”, said Modi.
 
 Though the problem of party heavyweights leveraging their heft to wangle tickets for their kin is common to all states and has persisted, despite the heavy cost exacted by nepotism,   is particularly in focus for such favour seeking and the PM seems keen to discourage party worthies from trying to use their clout to the advantage of their sons, daughters and spouses.
 
 Speaking at the national executive meeting weeks ahead of a crucial round of elections,   said nepotism deprives party workers who are the backbone of the organisation. In state elections after the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, the party has attempted to keep lobbying and factional “quotas” under control.
 
 Party sources said that party’s triumph in 2014 elections was also because of Shah’s refusal to be awed by reputations and seniority in the distribution of tickets even though he did not flinch from accommodating the stalwarts whenever it was needed. Party sources confirmed that the PM was categorical about the need for leaders to avoid pitching for loyalists or family members and it should be left on the party organisation to take a call based on merit so that justice is done.
 
 Party has sought widespread feedback in UP as a four-member team of Om Mathur, Dinesh Sharma, Keshav Prasad Maurya and Shiv Kumar has been entrusted to list probables with the help of the district and RSS units.
 
 Modi’s appeal underlines a stronger role for party president Amit Shah who is familiar with the state after having supervised the polls in Uttar Pradesh where BJP swept the Lok Sabha polls in 2014 winning 73 out of 80 seats.
 
 The PM said he is sure of winning assembly polls in five states “The situation is in our favour in the elections,” he said.
 
