NEW DELHI: The issue of repealing   is "very dear" to   and Pakistan had asked the Hurriyat Conference to bring down the PDP-BJP government in the state , J&K’s deputy chief minister   said in Delhi on Tuesday.
 
  "We gave a slogan of 44-plus. We got only 25 seats. Then the agenda of alliance was formed between   and BJP. For larger interest, for the time being, we have to leave some of our issues which are very dear to us. The issue of Article 370 is very dear to us. I am speaking as a BJP member," Singh said on Tuesday. He asked those pressing for the repealing of Article 370 in J&K to "have further patience, give us more time and have faith in Prime Minister  ." He appealed to people to "understand the J&K situation", saying BJP inherited a "total mess and confusion."
  
  Singh further said Pakistan had instructed the Hurriyat Conference that the PDP-BJP government should not succeed. "Pakistan and our opposition parties could not digest that this coalition government got formed. This government has given a message that India is there in J&K. I must say that   and Narendra Modi took a very bold decision to form this government. Then it was said that it is a case of North Pole and South Pole. It is a double-edged sword," the J&K Deputy CM said. He said there exists a divide, which is also communal, between Jammu and Kashmir Valley regions in J&K.
  
  Singh also said that while "Kashmir was the core issue" under the NC and Congress rule, "terrorism is now the core issue" under the PDP-BJP government. "155 terrorists have been eliminated in the last few months - a dozen terror commanders have been killed. It is a joke even in our cabinet meetings that there are vacancies for terror commander posts," Singh said. He also claimed that information was coming from "locals and J&K police" regarding recent successful anti-terror operations and said the local support to anti-terror operations was emerging like once it did in Punjab during the terrorism era there.
  
  Singh also said that the problem of terrorism in J&K was limited to just 2-3 districts in the Kashmir Valley. He further accused the opposition parties in the state of having communalised issues like 6000 quarters being built for Kashmir Pandits or a Sainik Colony being built for ex-servicemen of the state of J&K. 
