KOLKATA: As if the presence of 100-plus policemen on the campus wasn’t reassuring enough,   on Thursday kept its main gates facing   firmly shut fearing a repeat attack by locals in retaliation against the arrest of three persons. Ambulances used a side entrance via group hospital BM Birla on   to ferry in patients.

 “Our emergency services are operational under police protection. We have been assured by the administration of their support to safeguard our traumatised and shaken patients, their relatives, doctors and staffers,” said Dr Santanu Chattopadhyay, COO of CMRI and MD of CK Birla group hospitals.
 
 Though services limped back to normal and admissions, operation theatre, out patient department and specialty clinics resumed function, apprehension was writ large on doctors, staff and patients as they went about their motions. The OPD was appeared deserted with less than 10% turnout compared to regular days. 
 
 Manoj Jaiswal from Howrah, whose mother Reema is under treatment at the hospital, said his two-year-old son had been traumatised by Wednesday’s violence. Jaiswal was in the waiting area with his wife, son and sister when the vandals stormed in and began ransacking the billing section. “From 8.30am, an hour before the youths began the attack, groups of men were walking in and out of the ICU where Saika Parvin had died. My mother had panicked and was urging me to shift her elsewhere but hospital authorities assured us the situation was in control before it spiralled out completely,” he shuddered.
 
 On Thursday, too, there was palpable fear of retaliation in the hospital. After running riot on Wednesday, the vandals had threatened of dire consequence if a police complaint was lodged and people were arrested. Both had happened and battlelines appeared to have been drawn.
 
 The complaint was actually made late on Wednesday after a stormy board meeting in which doctors put their foot down and vetoed the administration’s suggestion that they avoid a police complaint lest it stoked further trouble. Doctors argued that if they did not go to police, the hoodlums would be emboldened to again ransack the hospital on some other pretext. 
 
 “The continuous disruption of services exposed our patients and employees to anti-socials. It led us to lodge a complaint. The case has been registered under the   Medicare Service Institution & Medicare Service Personnel Act 2009,” Chattopadhyay said in a terse statement. “Every death cannot be a case of medical negligence and an excuse to vandalise hospitals,” he added, referring to the death of 16-year-old Saika that catalyzed the violence. 
 
 He also announced that a committee had been formed to probe into the death but did not disclose the composition of the probe panel or when it would submit the report. Instead, he focused on the hospital’s commitment to the locality and the concessions it had extended in treating the economically disadvantaged. “We have even treated people from the area free of cost,” he claimed.
 
