NEW DELHI: Just ahead of municipal polls, north and south municipal corporations are planning to disburse pensions. The two corporations haven’t disbursed pensions for the past 15 and 30 months respectively. To woo voters, the political wing will now distribute pensions through cheques, violating norms.

 Former   had ordered the civic bodies to disburse pensions only through online system. However, the councilors have demanded distribution of pensions through cheques.
 
 Subhash Arya, leader of house of south corporation, said that they had released pensions for 6 months last year during Diwali. “Unlike north and east corporations, we released pensions. We will again release for 3-6 months in February,” said Arya.
 
 The pensioners are selected by sitting councilors in every ward and are major vote bank. The pension scheme is for old age people, widows, destitute and physically challenged. Every councilor selects 750 people from its ward and they receive Rs 1,000 every month under the scheme.
 
 Despite north corporation facing acute fund crunch and not being able to pay salaries to employees on time, the political wing has assured they will release pensions for at least three months by February first week. “Recently, we leased out a portion of Civic Centre and generated some revenue, which can be used to disburse pensions,” said Yogender Chandolia, standing committee member of north corporation.
 
 There are around 75,000-80,000 pensioners each under the three corporations and Rs 100 crore annually is required for pension. “The corporation can do away with the pension scheme but ahead of the municipal polls, councillors want to safeguard their vote bank,” said a senior official from north corporation.
 
 However, east corporation is planning to set up camps in every ward to verify the pensioners and submit the details to Delhi government. “Last year, the high court had directed if the civic bodies are not able to release old age pensions then they should submit the details to Delhi government and they will pay on our behalf. We are facing severe fund crunch and we are not in a position to release pensions,” said Jitender Chaudhary, standing committee chairman of east corporation. 
 
