MUMBAI:   has found its   Jatin Das. The recovery was not without elements of mystery and high drama as it emerged that the painting was taken, or rather stolen, by a former   on retirement over a decade ago. But the bigger scandal is that a number of art works of high value might still be in possession of other former AI top bosses who have “forgotten” to return the paintings post-retirement.

 Over a fortnight ago, eminent artist Jatin Das had revealed that one of his paintings commissioned by the erstwhile Indian Airlines in the 1990s had been stolen as it was available on the open market. He learned this when he was contacted by an art gallery to authenticate his work.
 
 A few days later, on July 10, a courier, sent from an address in Gurgaon reached AI’s Delhi headquarters. 
 
 “When we opened the box, addressed to the ‘CMD, Airlines House, New Delhi,’ we found the painting inside,” said an airline source. The 35x17 inch work was folded like an ordinary piece of paper. “It has sustained damage. But we were elated to see it again,” the official added.
 
 Das told TOI: “It belongs to Air India, I’m only concerned with the painting as it’s like a child.” About the fact that it was stolen, Das said: “I’m not surprised. I’m only concerned, saddened.”
 
 Soon after they received the courier, AI officials reached the Gurgaon address from which it was sent, only to find it was fictitious. Meanwhile, the committee set up by AI to investigate the case of stolen paintings had made some headway. “The painting was last seen over a decade ago in an executive director’s office in the Delhi airport. After she retired, no one had seen the work,” the source said. The said director was contacted and called for questioning to the airline headquarters on July 13. “In the course of enquiries she confessed she had the painting. But she said it was gifted to her,” the official added.
 
 That was when the committee learnt about the past practice wherein AI’s paintings and works of art were given to AI chairmen, executive director and directors to “decorate their homes”. “It was a perk. No one knows who started the practice and when. But it would have been understood that on retirement, the work had to be returned to the airline,” said the official, adding that a letter will be sent to former top bosses asking them to return the works. “There will be no action against those who voluntarily return the works,” the official said. By some media accounts, artefacts and paintings of AI worth Rs 200 crore are missing. The AI spokesperson refused to comment on the matter.
 
 The national carrier would have never recovered its   treasures, or even known it had lost them, had it not been for the ‘Air India Museum of Arts and Crafts’ project. In 2015, AI CMD Ashwani Lohani floated a project to house a museum in AI’s iconic Nariman Point building, where the airline’s vast collection of paintings, sculptures and artefacts collected over the past six decades and kept in its offices in India and across the world were to be catalogued and curated before it was to be thrown open for public viewing. In May this year, AI floated a Rs3.5 crore tender for construction of the museum, which since then has been on the back-burner after the government announced its plan to privatize the national carrier.
 
 AI owns artworks of some of the country’s most renowned artists such as K A Ara, M F Husain, V S Gaitonde, Arpana Caur and Anjolie Ela Menon. It is yet to make an inventory of its entire collection, which according to some estimates would be valued in crores.
 
 The value of the recovered Jatin Das painting too isn’t known. The artist, a Padma Bhushan awardee, refused to speak about the price of the work. But he did give a broader perspective to the issue at hand. “This is happening across the country. Works of art are stolen from temples, old buildings. We are not connected to our culture, our country. It will go on happening because we are a money-driven society,” he said.
 
