THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: There were serious flaws in the formulation and implementation of the Rs 1,422.50 crore   (KSUDP) funded by the  , found the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). In the latest report on local self-government institutions (2015-16) tabled in the assembly on Monday, the   found that the five corporations could only use 51.48% of the original loan sanctioned despite increasing the duration of the project from five to nine years. 

 The report also unearthed an additional burden of Rs 43.68 crore incurred by the state owing to the lapse in implementing the project. "Lapse on the part of government in not cancelling the loan portion relating to projects which couldn't be implemented within the specified time also led to payment of commitment charges amounting to Rs 43.68 crore to ADB," the report said.
 
 The report found that out of the 74 projects shortlisted under KSUDP, 15 had to be abandoned due to public protest, environmental issues, delay in land acquisition and delay in getting road cutting permission. The report accuses corporations for their failure to realise sewerage projects under the scheme. "Progress of implementation of sewerage projects was very slow and majority of these projects were short closed," it said. It also found that Rs 86.77 crore was spent by corporations for unfruitful projects, thus wasting public money.
 
 Idling of assets was another fault identified by CAG audit. Pipes purchased for Kochi sewerage projects valuing Rs 18.81 crore and 48,000 bins purchased by Thrissur corporation for purchasing primary storage bins had been lying idle.
 
 The crisis in solid waste management faced by corporations finds its mention in the report, which notes that eight solid waste processing plants had become dysfunctional. "The amount Rs 1.032 crore spent for the purpose had become infructuous," the report said. With regard to installation of household biogas plants, six corporations couldn't even achieve 50% of the proposed target, the report added. It also finds fault with   for failing to monitor the functioning of plants as well as utilization of funds.
 
 The report found that big biogas plants for common use in Kottayam, Varkala, Kalpetta, Thodupuzha and Thalassery municipalities were unused because of defective planning. The CAG pulls up Alappuzha district panchayat for negligence in the construction of a school building. It collapsed, endangering the lives of students and rendering an expenditure of Rs 39.82 lakh spent for its construction.
 
