NAGPUR: With surveys conveying that people are not happy with their corporators as well as BJP’s 10-year reign at the   (NMC), the saffron party is set to ride on the popularity of chief minister   and Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari who will be the main   for the elections slated for February 21. 

 The party’s advertisements make no mention about the works done at the NMC in the last five years. They do not even have the photos of the last two mayors — Anil Sole and Pravin Datke.
 
 BJP has booked big hoardings in 15 major squares of the city up to February 19, the date when campaigning ends. Most of the hoardings are in West and   and some in East and Central Nagpur.
 
 All hoardings have photos of Fadnavis and Gadkari displayed prominently, and that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP national president Amit Shah and state president Raosaheb Danve.
 
 BJP has highlighted projects either executed either by the state or centre. Metro Rail, smart city, Swachh Bharat Mission, MIHAN, Samruddhi Expressway etc are mentioned on the hoardings. Even city’s guardian minister Chandrashekar Bawankule finds no mention.
 
 BJP sources told TOI that all 150 candidates wanted Fadnavis and Gadkari to campaign in their wards. “We have sought time from both of them,” said sources.
 
 Gadkari was busy with Goa assembly elections till a few days ago and is now in Uttarakhand that too is going for elections. Gadkari has allotted four days from February 16 to 19. 
 
 Fadnavis is yet to do so as he is busy campaigning in other municipal corporations and zilla parishads in the state. “Fadnavis too is likely to come towards the end of the campaigning. Both, Gadkari and Fadnavis will hold meetings for two wards in one place,” the sources said.
 
 The BJP is also trying to rope in chief ministers of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Raman Singh, respectively. “Actors Vivek Oberoi, Hema Malini and others too have been approached for campaigning,” the sources said.
 
 BJP has released a list of 40 ministers and actors as star campaigners for civic and ZP elections in the state. BJP city president Sudhakar Kohle did not respond to TOI calls.
 
 Datke said the major hoardings were created by the BJP state unit hence there is no mention of works done at NMC and by local leaders. “The BJP city unit is planning to erect hoardings in 50 squares where local works will be highlighted,” he said.
 
