KOLKATA:   may soon be involved in a potential   opportunity in  , its largest Africa market, amid reports that efforts are underway to find a buyer for the country’s troubled fourth-largest carrier,  , said analysts.
 
  “Nigeria is Bharti’s largest Africa market where a potential consolidation opportunity is arising with Etisalat Nigeria looking for   after having failed to service debt obligations,” said   in a note to clients, a copy of which was seen by ET.
  
  Nigeria generates 30% of Bharti Airtel’s Africa revenues.
  
  The US brokerage, further, said that “it remains to be seen if Bharti explores a Ghana market equivalent joint venture opportunity” in Nigeria, although it does not specifically name potential JV partners.
  
  
  
  
  Earlier this year, Bharti   and Millicom International Cellular inked a pact to merge their respective subsidiaries in Ghana to create the second-largest mobile carrier in the African country.
  
  The latest consolidation buzz in Nigeria comes less than a fortnight after the country’s central bank and its telecom regulator reportedly intervened to save Etisalat Nigeria from collapsing after the telco’s talks with local banks to renegotiate a $1.2 billion loan came a cropper.
  
  Etisalat Nigeria has reportedly been a victim of dollar shortages plaguing the country due to lower oil prices and economic recession, that has left the company struggling to make repayments to lenders and suppliers.
  
  In January, Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal had said the telco would consider mergers or stake sales of some its African assets within a year as part of a rationalisation exercise, especially where it’s not in the top two positions, in an attempt to cut its mammoth $14 billion-plus debt and turn operations profitable.
  
  In this context, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch said “Bharti has largely achieved its aim of being No 1 or No 2 in market share in most African markets, with the exception of Nigeria and Tanzania”.
  
  Bharti Airtel had previously told ET that in a few (African) countries, where the business model is not sustainable due to hyper-competition, it would look at engaging actively with other players in those markets to create a viable business case through in-country consolidations.
  
  In Tanzania, the government has mandated telecom firms to list at least 25% of the company on the local exchanges to encourage domestic ownership. Which is why, Airtel Tanzania is planning an initial public offer (IPO) in compliance with regulatory requirements in the country, and has filed its draft prospectus with concerned authorities and awaiting approvals.
  
  Since its Africa entry in 2010, Bharti Airtel turned profitable in the continent for the first time ever in the fiscal fourth quarter ended March 2017, reporting a net income of $6 million compared with a net loss of $57 million, helped by growth in the data customer base and consumption, with revenue growing 2.6% amid stable currencies in most markets.
