That art is therapeutic is no mystery. It has the power to forge a connection among far-flung people and cultures that other forms of globalism may fail to do. But again, a good number of independent artists still struggle to get access into big galleries and reach out to art lovers. In an effort to bridge the gap between artists and audiences, a Bengaluru-based initiative — 
  — has taken up the responsibility to find artists, inspire them to push boundaries, help create networks and, finally, attract people’s attention to their work. The artists, in turn, are using their finesse to help people unwind and enjoy the moment. 

  Being curated by Ankita Saikia, the arts collective is bringing together five women painters to showcase their artworks, chiefly impressionist, at a workshop-cum-exhibition in the city that “aims to explore the power of now through craftsmanship”. “Many talents just float around the universe of art, trying to build an identity and establish themselves through their dexterity. Mostly stirred by the achievements and setbacks in their own lives, these self-driven artists have some amazing stories to tell,” explains Ankita.
 
  Ankita, who usually operates with an ad hoc team, adds, “However, there is a lack of support and the right kind of platform that would help them thrive. The perils, somehow, double in case of female artists.” The group is trying to foster collaborations to reach out to the refugee camps in strife-torn Syria, Afghanistan and Myanmar through their art initiatives, while conducting free art classes in schools in remote areas is also in their workflow. Presently, the collective networks with around 1,000 different artists from across the country.
 
  Giving a peek into her body of artwork, lead artist  , who has left a job in the IT industry to delve into the arts full time, says, “I believe that art can rescue one from the turmoil and stress of everyday life. The majority of my art is based on spirituality, via which I strike to attain harmony and peace. We are always caught up in the past or present. Art helps you to live in the moment. One does not need to be an artist to practice art. An adult colouring book is all you need to vent.”
 
  “We tend to get pulled in several different directions in our life and that somehow takes the focus off the present moment. While we bask in the glory of being able to multi-task, what we actually do is switch from one moment to the other,” says yoga trainer  , who will conduct a special interactive session at the event on mindful eating, touching upon the aspects of taste, smell, colour and the art of chewing food. 
 
  The other four artists whose works will be exhibited are Ashwini Rao, Syeda Tasfiya Huda, Shweta Agrawal and  . The show is scheduled to take place at   next weekend.
 
 
