Gurgaon: On December 10, Kitchen Collection, a store on New Railway Road, got a call from a family in Sector 37 to deliver goods worth Rs 52,000. 

 Shop owner Rajesh Jain arranged the delivery of geysers, toasters, OTG and other appliances, and was paid by two cheques in the name of Ashish Monga, along with a copy of his Aadhaar card. After a few days, when the cheque bounced and the Mongas refused to pay, Jain decided to file a police complaint but was told a legal notice was to be issued as a first step.
 
 It was then that Jain decided to look into the matter himself and went to the address only to find the Mongas had left the rented accommodation. What was more startling was that he realised there are more such instances where the same people had not paid money to several   in Delhi-NCR by resorting to the same “cheque-bouncing” fraud. Jain, who was earlier turned away by cops saying it was a cheque-bouncing case, tweeted about the organised gang, catching the police’s attention this time. He has been asked to meet the police chief on Wednesday.
 
 The caretaker of the accommodation in Sector 37, where the Mongas had put up for some time, Deepak Saluja, said the family members had identified themselves as brothers, Ashish and Varun Monga, sister Geetanjali and their mother, Mansi. “They also gave a cheque in Mansi’s name in lieu of security deposit and rent to my uncle and house owner, Brij Mohan Anand, who lives in Delhi, but the same bounced on account of insufficient fund,” he said. Saluja said many people had visited the house since the Mongas disappeared.
 
 TOI contacted some of the victims. Ajay Jain, the owner of Friends Electricals in Sadar Bazar, said he also got a call from a woman, who identified herself as Mansi Monga last month. “The woman had ordered four geysers and I was paid by cheque for Rs 23,200, issued in the name of Ashish Monga on December 12. The cheque bounced,” he said. Similarly, Bansi Lal, a trader in Naya Bazar said he had delivered groceries worth Rs 19,800 and the cheque given to him by the family had bounced. 
 
 “This was around the time demonetisation was at its peak, and we were told by a woman that she was doing puja and needed the groceries and other materials, so we delivered it,” said Lal.
 
 Saluja said when he tried to contact the original address in Rohini, which was mentioned in the cops of the Adhaar card given by the Mongas, he was told by people living there the family had duped several people in the locality.
 
 
