The police probe on the   murder has opened a Pandora’s Box of security lapses, much to the company’s detriment. Accused   was deputed at a McDonald’s outlet inside the Infosys campus on the day of the murder, and wasn’t supposed to get anywhere near the secure conference room where victim   OP was working. Yet he did and, surprisingly, no one stopped him, even though Saikia was captured on closed-circuit television (CCTV) while entering the restricted building.

 Saikia is currently being grilled in Hinjewadi police’s custody. Assistant commissioner of police (Chatuhshrungi division) Vaishali Jadhav Mane told Pune Mirror, “There is a McDonald’s outlet inside the company’s campus and, according to the records of the security agency, Saikia’s duty was at the outlet on Sunday.
 
 However, he left his designated spot, merrily entered the building where Rasila was working and killed her.”
 
 According to the police, the company’s CCTV cameras recorded his entry into the building. But not a single security guard stopped him. “The security guards deployed for the monitoring of the CCTV should have immediately confronted Saikia while he was trying to enter the building. The   also shows that he entered and exited the restricted area multiple times. But, not once did the guards object to that, which shows that there were serious security lapses on the part of guards there.”
 
 Even Pune police commissioner Rashmi Shukla had expressed that if the CCTV would have been monitored by the security guards, the incident could have been avoided.
 
 Rasila Raju OP, the 24-year-old IT professional from Infosys, was strangulated to death inside her office on Sunday evening. This was the first case of murder inside the campus of an IT company in the city. Police managed to arrest accused security guard Saikia from Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST) early on Monday — within eight hours of the incident —even as he was trying to flee to his native place in Assam.
 
 Meanwhile, the police have recovered the access card of Rasila, which Saikia had used while entering and leaving the conference room. Hinjewadi police officials told Mirror, “While Rasila was in the conference room, Saikia requested her to hand over the access card to him, saying he would be getting in and out of the room multiple times and did not want to disturb her. When she handed over the card, he used it a number of times. And, after killing her, he swiped it for the last time before leaving the conference room.”
 
 
 
 
 Pune police have begun a security audit of all the IT companies within the city confines, following the Infosys murder. A police team visited two IT companies in Hinjewadi on Wednesday, asking its security agencies to submit a status report on their arrangements. Apart from that, Pune police are also carrying out a study to identify safety lacunae in IT companies across the city.
 
 Pune police commissioner Rashmi Shukla is personally said to be working on the report, asking for suggestions from citizens, especially city IT professionals. “We have already started preparing a report on the security measures of the IT companies. We will be incorporating suggestions given by citizens. Once the report is completed, I will be calling a meeting of top officials of the IT companies operating in the city. We will be giving them the guidelines to ensure employee safety,” Shukla assured.
 
 When contacted, assistant commissioner of police (Chatuhshrungi division) Vaishali Jadhav Mane told Mirror, “We visited two IT companies in Hinjewadi IT Park and took information about the present status of their security. We will be visiting more companies in the coming days.”
 
 The cops have also given nine pointers to some of the IT companies to ensure the security of employees till the time new guidelines are formed. Joint commissioner of police Sunil Ramanand elaborated, “We had given suggestions to the companies in the past. However after the murder incident, we have given nine-point suggestions for safety yet again. We have proposed that the companies start a buddy system for security guards, avoid late duties for women and also not make them work alone on the campus.”
 
 
