BENGALURU: Ten years ago,  , 26, was an uneducated, gawky teenager looking after his cattle in his village in Kotigudda, Raichur district. Today, he is a motivational speaker, who has addressed 4.85 lakh students in schools and villages, urging them not to drop out and focus on excelling in whatever they do. 

 Ramesh’s turnaround was the result of a sustainable six-month transformation project by Head Held High Foundation (HHH), a Bengaluru-based organization that works towards the upliftment of illiterate youth. The initiative that changed this youth’s life 10 years ago, has now caught the attention of London   ( ) and   (LSE).
 
 In 2007, the foundation approached Ramesh as part of its project to identify and educate illiterate youngsters in his village who were keen on studying. These youngsters were given specific tasks to prove their abilities. During his interview, Ramesh took one hour to introduce himself to the panel; he was among 10-odd students chosen from Kotigudda for a six-month experiential learning course, which taught them basic English, technical education, personality development, etc. 
 
 “We were surprised to see the development among students within six months. Those from rural areas are very eager to learn and there is no stopping them. So far, 4,000 students from across the country have been trained under HHH’s project and have found placements in BPOs, hospitality and health sectors, among others. Some have even set up their own businesses. A few like Ramesh, despite having good job offers, have gone back to their villages and are working towards raising literacy levels there. Ramesh, in fact, is an ambassador for this project at HHH,” said Sunil Savara, co-founder Head Held High Foundation.
 
 “This is probably the smallest time period in which a course could change someone’s life, especially when the person has never even held a pen. What I found was that this project is built on experience-based learning and through a context, and this makes conceptual sense. Skill development is a challenge today. So, this could be an example of how one can learn English, technology and other skills in just six months,” said Rajesh Chandy, professor of marketing at London Business School, who will be studying the project with Prof Om Narasimhan from London School of Economics.
 
 London Business School and London School of Economics will jointly conduct a 3-year research involving 500 students from villages across India. Of these, 250-odd will be trained by HHH to determine the impact of this transformation project on them, their families and communities. The other half will be trained under a different project, using another technique for comparative analysis.
 
 “Though I was into farming, I always wanted to study. Today, I feel motivated. For 16 years my mother couldn’t send me to school due to lack of finances. Now, she wants to gather all the children of our village under a tree and get them educated,” said Ramesh. 
 
 
