The   on Monday ruled that   starrer '  2' can be screened only after four controversial shots in the movie are removed. The said four scenes were - a shot where a scared judge is hiding behind the chair, another where a shoe is hurled, a scene with objectionable signalling and dialogues in an argument scene. 

  
  
 Justices S.S. Shinde and K. K. Sonawane passed the order after going through a report presented by a committee headed by Justice Prakash Kanade and two others, after watching the movie.
 
 Intitally, the film's producers Fox star Studios had expressed an inhibition to delete the said scenes but now according to a tweet by PTI, "#FoxStarAudio India, producer of @akshaykumar-starrer 'Jolly LL.B 2' has withdrawn its plea against Bombay #HC order. " Speaking to PTI, Akshay said, "I respect High Court's decision. They must have made the decision keeping everything in mind. It's the High Court, you have to abide by their rules and I always believe in abiding by the rules and we have made the changes. There is no argument about it. There will be four cuts in one scene and that whole thing has been done. The movie is releasing on February 10."
 
  has accepted four cuts in the Akshay Kumar-Huma Quereshi starrer. Advocate Ajay Kumar Waghmare had filed a petition before the bench and demanded removal of the word 'LLB' from the film and certain shots which portrayed lawyers in bad light be edited out. 
 
 Though the Bombay High Court did not suggest dropping 'LLB' from the film's title, it did however ask for 4 shots to be deleted from the final cut of the film. And with the makers obliging to the High Court's ruling, looks like 'Jolly LLB 2' is all set for a smooth release on February 10. 
 
 Advocate Ajay Kumar Waghmare had filed a petition before the bench and demanded removal of the word 'LLB' from the film and cut certain shots which portrayed lawyers in bad light. With makers of 'Jolly LLB 2' paving a green signal to the suggest four cuts, looks like the Akshay Kumar starrer is all set for a smooth release this Friday now. 
 
  
  
