NEW DELHI: In its fight against pollution,   will not be resorting to “restrictions” on citizens, at least not till the public transport system is augmented.

 Speaking at the launch of the transport department e-services, chief minister Arvind   candidly made it clear that while the biggest challenge for the city remains traffic and pollution, measures like the odd-even scheme were only temporary. Other measures recommended by experts, like congestion tax, can only be implemented when public transport is easily accessible, said Kejriwal.
 
 “Without adequate public transport, we can’t impose restrictions or people will get upset,” said Kejriwal.
 
 The lack of buses is, however, something that Kejriwal told transport minister Satyender Jain should be tackling soon. Praising the transport department’s efforts to get more buses, Kejriwal said, “Adding only hundreds of buses is not enough. Delhi can’t do with hundreds but needs thousands (of buses),” he said, adding that the ongoing construction of seven depots with the capacity to park 1,100 buses was a positive step.
 
 Admitting that public transport was a “complex issue”, Kejriwal added that in the past two years, his government had taken many steps, though it was a short time to accomplish much.
 
 On Friday, the transport department launched eight services that will be available online now, including transfer of ownership of vehicle, hypothecation, addition or deletion of information in the registration certificate, NOC to other states, payment of road tax and fitness fees and others.
 
  Kejriwal said the e-services would forward AAP’s fight against corruption, that had originated with the   movement.
 
 Jain said that soon the e-services will become the only mode of transaction. “In phase-II, online will be the mode of interaction and people need not visit the RTO,”he said. In the second phase, steps are bieng taken to offer the e-service to those who don’t have access to computers.
 
 “I have asked the transport department to consider automated driving tests so that human intervention is minimised. This will help eradicate corruption,” said Jain.
 
 
