KOLKATA: The men in uniform are supposed to protect pedestrians’ right of way but what if the money-spinning hawking business sucks a section of cops into the ‘industry’? Pavements vanish overnight, roadspace shrinks drastically and eviction drives become toothless. And that is precisely what is happening in the   area.

 “New Market being one of the most lucrative hawking zones,   unions are making desperate attempts to find space either on the pavement or the carriageway. The business is so lucrative that even some police officers have chosen their trusted aides from the hawking community and ensured a place in and around the heritage market,” said a New Market trader, requesting anonymity.
 
 Pointing at some ‘designated’ areas, a hawker alleged that though police conduct regular raids in the area and sometimes seize wares from those who flout rules, some hawkers in specific places are often spared. Though these hawkers — patronized by a section of police officers — have their stalls all over the New Market and Esplanade areas, a couple of hawkers who have grabbed space at the entry point to New Market from Hogg Street have made the ‘understanding’ more apparent. Hawkers occupying a large chunk of Parkomat (on  ) and some fruit sellers on   have also found favours among a section of police officers, alleged a trader of Sreeram Arcade.
 
 A part of the daily sale proceeds goes to the lawkeepers who, in turn, guarantee protection to the hawkers they have chosen, alleged a New Market trader. “We have been sending names of hawkers who are encroaching upon the entry points to New Market, Sreeram Arcade and Firpo’s Market to police. We don’t know how these hawkers escape police raids,” said Rajeev Singh, the secretary of Joint Traders’ Federation (JTF).
 
 A KMC market department sergeant who looks after New Market complained police inaction in conducting regular drives against some hawkers who encroach upon the main entry gates to the heritage market. “Though we seek police assistance, seldom do we get cooperation from them. Amid such a situation, it is hardly possible for us to keep New Market encroachment-free,” the KMC sergeant said.
 
 However, a police officer from the New Market police station said that though they some times conduct ‘routine eviction drive’, it was not sufficient to discipline a section of aggressive hawkers who enjoy political patronage. “We need to draft a permanent hawker policy so that the hawkers know their boundaries,” he said.
 
