CHENNAI:   and M Ashwin grabbed the headlines last year after they were bought for Rs 8.5 crore and Rs 4.5 crore by Delhi Daredevils and Rising Pune Supergiants at the  . In a span of 12 months, the duo is back to where it all began.

 After being released by the re After being released by the respective franchises, they are back in the auction pool. And both Negi (capped) and Ashwin (uncapped) have registered themselves at a minimum base price of Rs 30 lakh and Rs 10 lakh respectively.
 
 Leggie Ashwin believes his base price would increase his chances of getting snapped up by a franchisee.“As an uncapped player, I have three options (Rs 10, 20 and 30 lakh). But it's all about getting an opportunity to play in the IPL rather than money .I never imagined that the price could increase so much in the last auction.If the value of a player is destined to increase, then it will. Those things are not in my control and I don't really think about it. I thought I will get more chances of being picked if my value is Rs 10 lakh,“ Ashwin told TOI on Sunday .
 
 After an average IPL show last season, Ashwin failed to make it to the Tamil Nadu Ranji team. But he is back in the T20 reckoning with a spot in the South Zone team for the ongoing national zonal meet in Mumbai.Negi, though, isn't there in the North Zone side led by Harbhajan Singh. After failing to make the Delhi Ranji team, he made the state T20 side, but the performances weren't exceptional in the Syed Mushtaq Ali trophy .
 
 But former India pacer and director of Delhi Daredevils TA Sekar said that there will still be competition among franchises to pick up Negi this season as well. The fact that he has kept his base price Rs 30 lakh will stand him in good stead during the auctions in Bengaluru on February 20. “A lot depends on how desperate teams are. During last auction, two or three teams went for Negi and MS Dhoni also wanted him for Pune.Mumbai wanted him and we too needed him. Thus we entered the bidding process from Rs 5 crore. This time we haven't decided anything about Negi and we will think of it only during the auction.“
 
 Sekar feels that Negi won't go for such big money this time around, but it won't be too bad either. “I feel there will be a rally with Negi at Rs 30 lakh. Two-three teams could be interested. Somebody has to open the bid. I'm sure, he will get picked. He may not go for the same 8.5 crore, but may be for Rs 1.5 or Rs 2 crore,“ Sekar said.
 
 
