Making last-minute plans for an international holiday this summer will leave you sweating. Spot ticket prices to popular destinations have gone up by as much as 30% from last summer with London witnessing the highest jump in air fares.

 But even these high spot fares are not deterring  . For them, leaving on a plane this summer break is proving tough as   is taking long at consulates of most ‘hot’ destinations owing to the rush. Indiver Rastogi, president of corporate travel at Thomas Cook (India) Ltd, says bookings are witnessing a “surge of over 40%” over last year. 
 
 Tourism Australia recently sent a mail to travel agents about increased waiting periods to get visas due to a rise in applications. Advising that applications at the Australian High Commission be made four to six weeks before departure dates, its mail said: “With the rising popularity of Australia as a holiday destination, there has been a significant rise in demand for Australian visas. As an example, visitor visa applications received in New Delhi during the first quarter of 2017 have increased by 32%, when compared with last year, and the trend appears to be continuing…we acknowledge the inconvenience and frustration that longer processing times can cause…” Tourism Ireland is also seeing an “unprecedented” demand.
 
 VFS, which handles visa processing for most countries, says its application centres are seeing a huge rush this summer due to an increase in outbound travel from India. “Overall, a steady increase in the number of visa applications has been observed, year-on-year, particularly to destinations in Europe, the UK, and the Far East,” says Vinay Malhotra, VFS Global’s COO (Middle East and South Asia). VFS did not give any nu-mbers saying that can be done only by individual consulates. 
 
 Given the sharp rise in outbound travel, airlines are not able to increase supply accordingly. John Nair, head of business travel at Cox & Kings, says: “Spot fares to long-haul destinations in June have gone up as the Indian leisure traffic to these destinations have shot up and there is no commensurate increase in capacity from India to the UK, Europe and the US.’’
 
 This happens due to various reasons. While Mumbai airport is operating at capacity and has no slots available for new flights, Delhi has not added a single flight from 7am to 10pm with night facing a limit on number of operations to curtail noise. Thomas Cook’s Rastogi adds: “Spot fares were deployed by carriers last year in a focussed initiative to boost uptake in a sluggish market environment, but given the significant dema-nd this year, airlines have chosen to stay away and strategically leverage this growth opportunity to improve on margins.”
 
 Then among Indian carriers, aggressive growth in fleet is happening at low-cost carriers which do not fly to distant places like Europe, North America or Australia. The NDA government has been careful in granting bilaterals — as NDA has drawn fire from CAG for being too liberal in opening India as a market for foreign carriers.
 
 
