AHMEDABAD: A   took a   in an examination hall and the picture of the act, caught on  , was so 'unliked' by board officials that they banned him from taking exams for two years. Vatsal Karamta, 17, a class XII (general stream) student, was recently summoned along with his parents by the disciplinary committee of the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB). 

 CCTV footage from Karamta's examination centre showed him taking out a mobile phone from his back pocket and taking a few selfies before resuming the exam.
 
 Board officials said that the incident occurred in March. Since 2014, the GSHSEB has made it mandatory for committees - consisting of the district education officer, the district primary education officer, and the principal of the District Institute of Education and Training - to review footage from their areas. During the review for Porbandar, Karamta's selfie act was discovered.
 
 The footage showed that Karamta had not used the phone to cheat - which was the case in three other instances this year. "He has confessed to sneaking in the mobile phone against the rules and thus, he has been declared failed in all papers he took this year," said J N Rajgor, the joint director of the GSHSEB. "The committee has decided that he will not be allowed to take exams till March 2019." Rajgor said the ban was the first of its kind in the board's history.
 
 Sources in the board familiar with the case said that during questioning, Karamta said that he had wanted to upload the picture on Facebook with the caption 'at the exam hall'. However, he denied having uploaded it.
 
  GSHSEB has made it compulsory for the 60,000-odd exam centres in Gujarat to install CCTV cameras or to use tablets to record proceedings in examination halls. This year, analysis of footage revealed that 850 class XII students and 1,150 class X students had violated rules. Psychologists say that excessive selfie-taking has been identified as a mental disorder and those who have the condition can be narcissistic and become angry if they don't get likes or comments.
 
