NOIDA: The possibility of NCR’s second   airport being built in Greater Noida’s   looks real once more after Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Aditya Nath asked state officials to explore the possibility of doing so.

 If UP revives the project, how far it can progress will depend on the   aviation ministry, which needs to give a clearance certificate. 
 
 The Jewar   project was first proposed more than 15 years ago, when Rajnath Singh was chief minister of UP in 2000. Now, under the first BJP government since then, Greater   will hope for more than promises on Jewar.
 
 Jewar, as well as another airport proposed in Agra, came up during a review meeting that Yogi held with the industries department on Thursday. The Jewar project has been cleared by the ministry of defence, sources said, but the site clearance certificate from the   ministry is awaited.
 
 Attempts to get the aviation ministry’s reaction on Friday did not elicit a response; however, recently, top sources in the ministry had told TOI the Jewar project was “all clear” from their side. A top official associated with the project said, “The state government cannot go ahead with the project without a nod from the steering committee of the civil aviation ministry.”
 
 Sources said about 400 acres of land have been marked for the project. “The land would be acquired once the civil aviation ministry gives its nod,” said a government official. Jewar airport, conceptualised to ease growing air traffic at New Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport, managed to get all clearances in 2000 itself when Rajnath proposed it.
 
 But the project was put on hold during the UPA regime because of a clause barring construction of an airport within a 150km radius of an existing airport — in this case, IGI in Delhi — which is operated by the GMR Infrastructure-led consortium, Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL).
 
 When the Akhilesh Yadav government was formed in UP in 2012, it contemplated shelving the project while proposing a new international airport in Agra and considering Saifai (SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s home) as an option.
 
 The Jewar project, however, revived once again after BJP MP from Gautam Budh Nagar Mahesh Sharma started pressing for an international airport in his parliamentary constituency.
 
 “Eventually, the state government had to start all over again,” said a senior UP government official. Even as the Airports Authority of India (AAI) gave its nod, sources said the UP government was asked to push for the project once again with the civil aviation ministry, which had given its nod last year.
 
 The Jewar project is also competing with another proposed airport in Rajasthan’s Bhiwadi district, which is within NCR. The ministry of civil aviation gave a clearance to the Bhiwadi airport project in 2015.
 
 The Jewar project was also taken up keenly by the Mayawati government. The project was one of the key features builders and real estate bodies used to lure buyers with for investing in residential and commercial projects in and around the area.
 
 
