CHANDIGARH: Despite a fierce triangular fight for the first time and strong anti-incumbency against the Badal regime, voting percentages   on Saturday registered only a marginal increase compared to 2012. But that was enough for the state to set an all-time record since its creation in 1966. Compared to 78.20% voters casting their ballot in 2012, the turnout this time stood at 78.62%.

 The 2012 numbers were the highest until Saturday. The Election Commission had set itself an even higher target of 85% but that was not reached. The SAD-BJP alliance had become the first government to retain office five years ago despite most people predicting a Congress win. The alliance had taken 68 of the 117 seats five years ago.
 
 The new record was created largely because of a surge in   region which has 69 seats. EC figures show that nine out of 11districts of Malwa saw voter percentages jump to more than a record 80%. This includes the three pocket boroughs of the Badal family — Muktsar, Bathinda and Fazilka. Even Faridkot, where desecration of Sikh holy books had turned the faithfuls against SAD, touched 80%. AAP is expected to do well here. The region had seen the maximum cases of sacrilege of holy books. Also, a failed cotton crop in 2015 had left many farmers disgruntled with the government.
 
 AAP had tapped into this resentment. However, Punjab’s most populous districts with large urban populations — Ludhiana, Amritsar and Jalandhar — saw lower than the average turnout of between 67% and 73%, lowering the average.
 
 Surprisingly, Amritsar recorded the lowest voting at 67.7%. Two of the biggest faces in Punjab — Navjot Singh Sidhu and Bikram Majithia — are contesting from here. Besides, the Amritsar   bypoll was also held the same say as   chief Captain   had resigned as MP ahead of the polls.
 
 Urban areas of Punjab, where Congress has a better sway than other parties, saw a conservative 70% to 72% of turnout.
 
 No party was ready to concede defeat after voting ended. “The overall turnout may be low but voters came out in Malwa, our stronghold. I am certain we will form the government,” said AAP Punjab in-charge Sanjay Singh. Deputy CM Sukhbir Badal said, “People have come out in huge numbers to vote for our development agenda.”
 
 Amarinder said, “The fact that voters defied all fear and pressure to come out and vote in large numbers bodes well for the future of Punjab.”
 
 
