NEW DELHI: It was a double whammy for city commuters on Monday: cab drivers associated with app-based companies continued their strike even as Metro services were hit by a snag for some time.

 Only a fraction of the estimated 1.5 lakh drivers in NCR plied their vehicles, driving rates sky high. Waiting time ranged from 10 minutes to half an hour, if at all one found a ride. For most of the time, however, apps of both taxi-aggregating companies operating in the city showed the “no cars available” message. People were forced to look for alternative ways to commute.
 
 Delhi Metro creaked under pressure with ridership on the mass public transit system going up by almost 1.5 lakh. DMRC data showed 23.71 lakh people took the Metro till 8pm on Monday. In comparison, the figure was 22.26 lakh the previous Monday for the same period.
 
 There appears to be little respite in the offing. Anwar Ali, a member of Sarvodaya Drivers’ Association of Delhi, said: “We will continue our strike. Neither company has bothered to get in touch with us. If our demands are not met, we will go on a chakka jam.” Ravi Rathore, one of the protesters on hunger strike, lost consciousness and had to be rushed to RML hospital.
 
 For office-goers, the last few days have been harrowing. Ashok Kumar, one such commuter who goes to Greater Noida, said: “I share rides with a colleague, saving both money and time. Right now, we have just bus services to fall back on.”
 
 Some said the cab companies weren’t doing enough to resolve the issue. “Why should we suffer?” asked Namita Mishra, while Amisha Sinha, another daily commuter, said she felt cheated. “I had an Ola share pass, which had at least five more rides left. I don’t know how to use them now,” she said. 
 
 Drivers, on their part, are sticking to their guns. Jasveer Singh, one of the protesters, said: “I decided to take a car son rent from the (cab) company six months ago and pay Rs 750 per month. After deduction of rates per kilometre, I save nothing.”
 
 
