BHUBANESWAR: Dr K Srinath Reddy, president,  , was earlier this week appointed health adviser to the   government with a cabinet minister’s rank.   shares his plan for Odisha with TOI’s  .

 
 
 I will function in an advisory capacity, providing inputs to health policy and programmes as a health professional combining both clinical and public health expertise. My precise role will be determined by the government of Odisha. It will be structured to serve the chief minister's vision of improving the health status and services of Odisha. 
 
 
 
 I will be serving in an honorary capacity but will be fully committed to devote needed time and energy to perform the tasks that my role demands. I will visit Odisha frequently and will be constantly connected. More than any office space, it is the opportunity to work with the many stakeholders in Odisha to collectively advance health of the people of Odisha that excites me. I can happily work from a corner desk in the health department when I am not in the field.
 
 
 
 Clearly, there is a need to improve the outreach and effectiveness of health services as well as ensure better multi-sectoral coordination to protect and promote health of the people especially the vulnerable sections. I also sense a great energy in the state's health ministry which is responding to the health challenges with new initiatives. There is also strong political commitment at the highest level to advance the health agenda. These augur well for transformative changes that will accelerate progress in this very vital sector of human development.
 
 
 
 Strengthening primary health care; improving hospital services; developing a multi-layered, multi-skilled, socially committed and service oriented health work force; quality monitoring systems; community engagement and empowerment. All of these are needed for efficient and equitable of services, whether it is maternal and child health or malaria control. I will of course be guided by priorities identified in the National Health Policy and the Odisha State Health Policy.
 
 
 
 
 'Prescribe' is not the right word. I will assist in evolving consensus recommendations for effective action through a consultative process that engages many stakeholders. There has to be shared ownership and joint accountability for such decisions, which have to be informed by the ground realities. I will provide my suggestions in an appropriate forum, which is convened by the health ministry.
 
 Malnutrition of mothers and babies are major reasons behind diseases and deaths in the state. What can be done to address that?
 Malnutrition has multi- factorial causation and requires a multi- sectoral response: from food security and livelihoods to sanitation and infectious disease control. It also calls for a life course approach to prevention-from nutrition of the girl child and adolescent girl to young mother- to promote safe motherhood and healthy children. We know the actions needed at each stage- we now need to implement them in an integrated manner through a systems approach.
 
 
 
 
 We have to train and deploy locally recruited and locally resident front line health workers who are capable pf providing basic services, are technology enabled and IT connected to other levels of health care. We should not be captive to a fully doctor dependant model of primary health care.
 
 
 
 
 Provision of essential health services to the people, especially to the poor and needy, should transcend political differences and should evolve a consensus across the whole spectrum of political opinion. Engaging and empowering communities should create a vocal demand for services that would be difficult even for political combatants in conflict zones to oppose. We have to appeal to the innate humanity of all sections to project and position health care as a pro-people service, which it undoubtedly is.
 
 
 
 We need to develop and implement a 'human resources for health' strategy to develop different categories of health service providers- not just doctors. We have to use upgraded district hospitals to train more doctors, nurses and allied health professionals. Recruitment and retention of doctors - both allopathic and AYUSH- also depends on the kind of financial and non-financial incentives that are offered. Cadre management practices are particularly important.
 
 
 
 
 Education of medical students must move closer to primary and secondary health care settings. Presently they are trained mostly in urban tertiary care settings. They are both professionally untrained and psychologically poorly motivated to join the government service, since that will post them initially to rural areas. If district and sub- district health care facilities are mostly utilised for training medical students, they are better prepared for government service. Also service conditions and career advancement incentives matter. There are several innovations that can be attempted to bring back young graduates in to government service. Perhaps new models will emerge from Odisha.
 
