NAGPUR: The annual production of   at the Scientific Society, Laxmi Nagar on Sunday morning turned into a riot of colours as the stage was turned into a children’s paradise with colourful cut-outs of the sun, the trees, big sunflowers and theatre masks. Children from the age group of 4 years to 14 years put on their acting shoes and outfits appropriating the characters they were set to play. 

 Some were dressed as grasshoppers, some as ghosts, and some as dwarfs. Varied thematic productions were shown on stage. ‘Hare and the tortoise’, ‘Haunted house’, ‘Fancy that’, ‘Fiesta in Triesta’ were some of the plays that were staged by the children.
 
 Helen O’ Grady is an international program that attempts to improve a child’s personality through the medium of drama. The children put up a stage show to showcase the skills acquired by them through yearlong classes.
 
 About 300 children participated in the production this time, and sixteen plays were staged. The event was organized by Drishti Learning Center in association with Delhi Public School, Lava. The function was divided into three slots, consisting a mix of pre-primary, lower-primary, and upper-primary in each slot. Moreover, for the first time, a play titled ‘English Vinglish’ was staged by the teachers and parents. 
 
 “This time, some of the children asked their parents to act too, instead of plainly being in the audience. The parents belong to various fields of profession but they came together to perform, and the script was written by teacher Rekha Rahate,” said director of Drishti Learning Center Megha Agrawal. This was the eighth year of the annual production and the children had practised only for about 10-12 hours for the show, she added.
 
 Anupama Sagdeo, principal of the upcoming Delhi Public School, Lava, was the chief guest of the event, and she took the platform to address the students on the importance of co-curricular activities. Speaking about the performances of students, she said that the efforts the children put in were commendable. “The children were into their characters. I found The Haunted House and Grasshopper And The Ants to be particularly good,” she said. The Center plans to open youth theatre group next year.
 
