JAISALMER: Two American   along with a five-member team from US have reached Jaisalmer on Tuesday for field trial. The trial is expected to begin in next two-three weeks and will continue for one-two months. Last week, an   had also reached for the trial.

 According to reliable sources, two American M777 ultra-light howitzer guns landed in New Delhi on Thursday and were sent to Jaisalmer through military trucks that reached   Field Firing Range on Tuesday late evening.
 
 Recently, a MoU was inked with US for 145 such guns and now preparations have been started for trials. These howitzers will be tested for firing at various distances and different concepts. Sources hinted about the possibility of Chinak helicopters’ visit to Jaisalmer whih will be carrying those guns to other locations. 
 
 It is to be mentioned that, Army has received howitzer guns after a prolonged 38 years’ wait. This is the second time Army is receiving any foreign made guns after Bofors in 1986. Sources said, being ultra-light these guns can be moved from one place to another with ease especially to Jammu & Kashmir, Leh, Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh through choppers at an altitude of 16, 000 feet. It is expected that after Swedish Bofors, American howitzer is going to strengthen Army’s ability and capability. 
 
 Sources further said, from March 2019, five howitzer guns will be arriving every month under a $737 million deal. Total 145 guns will delivered by June 2021. First 25 guns will be imported from US while remaining 120 guns will be assembled in India under a joint venture by Mahindra and BAE system, an US based firm. 
 
 “Contract of weapon system was given on November 30, 2016. As per the contract, firing tables are being prepared by awardee agencies i.e.US Government and BAE GCS Ltd. with support from Indian Army. After firing tables are ready, three more guns will be received in the second stage in September 2018 for training. Thereafter, induction will commence from March 2019 onwards at the rate of five guns per month till full consignment is received by mid-2021,” said an army spokesperson. 
 
 According to sources, the deal of 737 million dollars has been signed and under this deal, from march 2019, every month five guns will be received and total 145 guns will be delivered by june 2021. 25 guns will be imported from America and remaining 120 guns will be assembled in india by Mahindra under BA system.
 
 The howitzer guns will have optical fire control and can hit the target at a distance of 40kms. With digital fire control, howitzers can fire five rounds in a minute.
 
