MUMBAI: In yet another case of  , a 31-year-old   with a government hospital was   of Rs 4.2 lakh by a man she met online. 

 The man, who introduced himself as London-based businessman Ranjan Das on the   site, allegedly began chatting with the woman on WhatsApp. Soon, the woman got a call from a fake courier company asking her to deposit Rs 10,000 as clearance charges to get a “gift” the man had sent her. A few days later, she was asked to deposit more money since the “gift contained $15,000”. She collectively deposited Rs 4.2 lakh to get the “gift” from the man but was left shocked on finding the courier company’s phone and even Das’s number switched off. This prompted her to file a complaint with Nagpada police recently. 
 
 The victim, a   resident, told cops that she had registered herself on a matrimonial site and met Das in January 2016. “Between January and May 2016, we chatted over phone. One day, I received a call and the caller said he was from a courier company and that they had received a gift from Das for me. First he asked me to deposit Rs 10,000 as clearance charges. He also provided a bank account number where I deposited the amount. Later, I once again received a call from the courier company and the person said the package contained American dollars. I contacted Das and he said the dollars were my ‘surprise gift’ and that he would soon fly down to India and meet me,” the woman said in her police complaint. 
 
 The fake courier company then called her and told her to deposit more money to get the dollars cleared or she would face legal complications. She deposited the amount. A few days later, she received yet another call. This time the caller said he was calling on behalf of a reputed bank and that $15,000 had come into their branch and they needed to send it to her. However, the man asked her to first deposit money as legal fees. The woman did as told. “In all, she deposited Rs 4.2 lakh. However, she did not receive any gift. When she called up the courier firm, its phone was switched off. She then tried contacting the bank but found their phone was switched off too. She was shocked when Das’ phone was unavailable as well.”
 
 “We have collected the numbers of all the accused. We are also trying to trace the IP address of Das’ emails. We will write to the bank asking it to freeze the accounts,” said an officer. A cheating case was registered.
 
