NAGPUR: With a view to ensure   in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ongoing cement concretization works, the city police have set a list of guidelines for the civic body.

 Ahead of civic polls due in February, the NMC has launched road works at 32 locations. Most works are being executed at a snail’s pace. 
 
  In December 2016, the traffic police had lodged FIR against contractors engaged in cement concretization of tar roads and two private firms carrying out   work. 
 
 Now, the city police are ready with a set of guidelines and want the NMC to ensure strict adherence by contractors engaged in any road work. 
 
 According to the guidelines prepared by CP K Venkatesh, a contractor should furnish within 7 days on receipt of work order a programme schedule supported with bar-chart indicating the date of actual starting of work, the monthly progress expected to be achieved and anticipated completion date of work. 
 
 Apart from NMC’s traffic engineer, the contractor should also take necessary approval from the traffic police department. The contractor should prepare a detailed traffic diversion plan as per the requirement of traffic authorities and get that approved from the concerned authorities. 
 
 The contractor will have to liaison with the traffic police authorities to ensure smooth flow of traffic at all stages of the work without causing inconvenience to the traffic. The contractor should take necessary precautions for the safety of traffic during construction by providing, erecting and maintaining traffic constructed with strong vertical posts, GI sheets barricading, fencing, signboards, blinkers, flasher boards, rotaries, directive sign boards, red flags etc including in case of a phased programme. 
 
 The works should be executed simultaneously on all roads including in the tendered package without disturbing present traffic. If it is possible to execute the work in ‘half width’, it has to be ensured that traffic must pass safely on the remaining part.
 
 The guidelines also directed the NMC to ensure that a contractor erects the site/work information signboards on site as per Indian Road Congress rule 67. Even the NMC has similar rules and regulations for the contractors but they turn a blind eye when contractors violate them. 
 
