GURGAON: The Punjab and   on Monday dismissed a petition challenging Huda’s attempt to acquire land belonging to   restaurant, paving the way for speedy completion of the proposed underpass at  . 

 Within an hour of getting the go-head from the court, authorities razed the eatery to the ground and cleared around 900sqm of land which was hindering the alignment of the underpass.
 
 Huda officials said while construction was underway on one side of the underpass, the said 900sqm occupied by the restaurant had been holding up work on the other wing of the project, which was crucial to ensuring smooth flow of traffic from Sector 10A to Sector 37.
 
 “The   dismissed the petition challenging the acquisition. Accordingly, we demolished the structure to take possession of the land, which will be handed over to NHAI — the agency constructing the flyover as well as the underpass at Hero Honda Chowk,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav. 
 
 The court order, he added, would speed up the project. 
 
 The 1.4km-long flyover and 1km-long underpass, along with existing roads, are part of a three-tiered project undertaken to unclog Hero Honda Chowk.
 
 Earlier, after listening to grievances of the land owner, Sitaram Singhla, in March, the high court had directed Huda to resolve the issue amicably. Following this, Huda had offered an alternative plot to Singhla, subject to the outcome of a case related to the Land Acquisition Act, pending in the  . But, Singhla insisted upon unconditional allotment of an alternative plot.
 
 NHAI threw open one side of the Hero Honda Chowk flyover to traffic on March 27. The other side is likely to be ready by June 30. “We need at least six months from the date of getting possession of the (restaurant) land to complete the underpass,” said an NHAI official. “With the high court clearing the deck, we are hoping to complete it by the end of this year.”
 
 The process of acquiring 1.39 acre near Hero Honda Chowk had started in 1988. It was challenged by the land owners in the high court. The petitions were dismissed by both the high court and the Supreme Court. Finally, Huda announced compensation for the acquired plots in 2005.
 
 Over time, Huda had managed to resolve most of the legal issues and take possession of a large chunk of the required land. In the meantime, the new Land Acquisition Act was passed, carrying a clause that says if the land acquired by government is not utilised for the said purpose (in this case, construction of the road) within five years from the notification of acquisition, the acquisition would stand null and void. This was the clause based on which the owner of Sugandh restaurant had filed a petition before the high court.
 
