Trichy: Greening Treechy, an initiative by the Trichy district administration aimed at increasing green cover in the urban and rural parts of the district, is gradually gaining momentum here with individuals queuing up to get the saplings of native trees in an effort to make Trichy green. A call to a mobile number of the agriculture department will reserve your quota of five saplings for free.

 Anyone interested in growing trees on their house premises will only have to call 7402704803 to register their name with an agriculture officer in-charge of distribution of the saplings under the Greening Treechy project. Native varieties like Neem, Pungan, Vaadham, Mahakani, Iyal Vaagai and Thoongu Vaagai are available here. 
 
 The free sapling distribution scheme which was launched a few years ago was revived recently by the district administration. “The objective of the scheme is to ensure green cover in as many areas as possible in the district. The concept of the initiative is to make people aware of the need to grow trees on their residential premises. It is up to the people to make it successful by maintaining the saplings until they grow as trees,” district collector Dr KS Palanisamy told TOI on Tuesday. 
 
 Agriculture department officials said that they have distributed around 4,000 saplings in three months. “The response from the people is good. We have distributed the saplings to the interested people so that they will know the value of growing trees,” said personal assistant (agriculture) to collector S Shanthi. 
 
 Trichy has only around 11 % green cover though it should have been 33 % ideally. Lack of space around the house and ignorance about the need to grow trees have been keeping the city as a concrete jungle at several places. In order to keep track of the maintenance of the saplings by the people, the agriculture department is planning to physically verify their growth. 
 
 “We are going to intensify the monitoring through our field staff. People also will be asked to send pictures of the grown saplings through WhatsApp on the same number. Besides, we will work out some more plans to promote tree plantation in the district,” said Shanthi. 
 
 -------------------------------------------------
 
 TREEWISE
 
 Neem – Has medicinal values 
 
 Pungan – Known to produce a lot of oxygen 
 
 Vaadaham – Eco-friendly tree 
 
 Mahakani and Iyal Vaagai – Known for their wood 
 
 Soil, cow dung and bio nutrients needed for ideal growth of the saplings
 
 Both clay soil and red soil available in Trichy are conducive for the trees
 
 
