NEW DELHI: The Prime Minister’s Office has initiated an extensive exercise to gauge how far has the government delivered on its promises.
 
  All ministries have been asked to give reports on the status of projects launched by Prime Minister  . According to sources, the ministries have to furnish the number of projects for which foundation stones have been laid by Modi, the total project cost, reasons for delay and the cost escalation. There is emphasis on infrastructure ministries, including road transport and highways, railways, urban development, shipping and civil aviation.
  
  Official sources told ET that Modi has tasked principal secretary Nripendra Misra to drive this intensive exercise. The reports would form a part of review to be conducted by Misra to see how many projects initiated by Modi have reached fruition. Sources indicated this would also form a part of Modi’s speeches in election-bound states to showcase his government’s governance track record.
  
  A proforma has been circulated to ministries to provide a detailed account of name and location of project, date of foundation stone laying, total project cost, project timelines given at the time of foundation laying, latest status with reasons for delay. A separate status report has been sought for projects that have already been inaugurated by Prime Minister. This report would include name and location of project, date of inauguration, total project cost and time and cost overruns. Ministries have been asked to seek similar reports from all autonomous bodies and subordinate offices under them.
  
  The exercise comes at a time when the government is closely monitoring effects of November 8 demonetisation move. The ministries are working overtime to collate the data. “The message passed on by the   came earlier this week and has a sense of urgency. We have collected data in 2 days. These are being collated as the presentations and review exercises are expected to be conducted next week,” said an official privy to the development.
  
  The data is being provided statewise to understand if there are any location-specific issues plaguing a project which could be sorted out with consultations. 
