CHANDIGARH: Upset over the failure of the   and the police in taking action against those not allowing private bus permit holders to operate in the state, the   and Haryana high court has directed the DGP and additional chief secretary ( ), transport department, to appear before it. Justice Rajiv Tewari passed these orders while hearing a bunch of petitions filed by private transporters from Haryana.

 In his orders, the judge recorded, “The counsel for petitioners points out that the latter are not being permitted to ply their buses and the state is either unable to take action or is conniving with private respondents. The additional advocate general is not in a position to categorically say that all petitioners are being allowed to ply their buses unhindered by anybody.”
 
 The July 19 orders further reads, “The ACS, Haryana transport department, and DGP are directed to appear in person on the next date of hearing. The case will now come up for hearing on August 10.”
 
 Petitioners in this case, who have been granted permits for five years from March 2017, have been arguing that despite having valid permission and directions from the high court they have not been allowed to ply their buses under pressure from the roadways union. It was further stated that around 30,000 buses are required to meet the demand of passengers in the state but the state government has only 3,000 buses. They further alleged that despite having valid permits to ply private buses on different routes in the state, the state authorities are not allowing them to operate.
 
 The HC had already directed the administrative and police authorities to ensure that there is no breach of peace at the hands of miscreants in enabling the petitioners to ply their buses as per the terms and conditions of the permits granted to them. 
 
 A tussle between private transporters and state roadways union has been going on in the state for a long time. Private transporters have been contending that they were granted permits in March for a validity of five years up to 2022, but still are not allowed to ply vehicles by state authorities under pressure from roadways employees union. 
 
 The union, however, has been protesting against the government scheme to give 853 permits to private bus operators on 273 routes. They are demanding that more roadways buses be bought and run on these routes to give employment to more people. The union, which had observed strike in the state on several occasions, has given an ultimatum that if private operators continued to ply buses as per the existing policy, they would resume their strike.
 
