HYDERABAD:   in the city fare badly when it comes to   and  . While many in the elite class suffer from over-nutrition, leading to obesity, those from the middle rung and slums are plagued with severe deficiency of iron and various vitamins, causing stunted growth.

 One in four schoolchildren are underweight in Hyderabad. This was found by a team of researchers from the department of community medicine at Kamineni Academy of Medical Sciences and Research Centre, who examined children in the age group of six to 11 years in the city. The focus was on schools in slums and middle class localities. The data was collected through random sampling
 
 Nutritional deficiencies, below normal weight and stunted growth was observed in 28.9% of the surveyed schoolchildren. Excess weight was observed in 9.2 per cent of students whereas 4.4% of the children were found to be obese. The prevalence of stunted height was noticed in 21.8%. 
 
 Interestingly, though a majority of the families surveyed had parents who were literate, their children showed symptoms of nutritional deficiency. The nutrition status improved with the increase in literacy levels of the parents.
 
 “Good nutrition in children is necessary as nutrients play a major role in growth during adolescence. Under-nutrition is the single biggest contributor to child mortality,” said the research team, which comprised Sunil Pal Singh Chajhlana, MN Ramakrishna and MV Maruti Sarma. The findings were published in the latest issue of the International Journal of Community Medicine and Public Health.
 
 Deficiency in vitamins at a young age causes health problems, including night blindness, corneal vascularization, fissuring of tongue, skin diseases, spongy and bleeding gums, knock knees or bow legs, swellings in joints and deformed chest. Many of the children in the study were suffering from these problems.
 
 “Prevalence of anaemia was highest, followed by Vitamin B deficiency. The causes include worm infestation or nutritional deficiency. These children require additional iron folic acid tablets in their diet,” the researchers said.
 
 According to a UNICEF document, “Good nutrition is the bedrock of child survival, health and development. Well-nourished children are better able to grow and learn, to participate in and contribute to their communities, and to be resilient in the face of disease, disasters and other global crises”. However, children in Hyderabad have a long way to go in nutritional health, said senior scientist Dr MN Khaja.
 
