MUMBAI: At a charged hearing in a contempt plea filed against   Sons before the National Company Law Tribunal ( ), the company’s counsel took shots at its ousted chairman  , invoked Greek mythology and Helen of Troy to accuse him of “stabbing’’ the board in its back. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, the Tata Sons counsel called the contempt plea a "sensational'' attempt to “gag” the behemoth. 

 Mistry’s counsel Janak Dwarkadas, in turn, later shot back, “the way Mistry was unceremoniously removed shows that the Tata ethos, Tata values are all on paper". Aryama Sundaram counsel for the Mistry family owned companies stoutly denied the ‘back stabbing’’ claim as “unfair’’ and “misleading". The tribunal reserved its order on the contempt plea for January 18.
 
 Two of Mistry's family companies had last month moved the Tribunal for relief against Mistry’s proposed removal as Tata Sons director. The tribunal had on December 22, fixed January 31 as the hearing date after recording that parties agreed to “not file any interim application or initiate any action or proceedings over this subject matter…’’ Last week, they demanded a two year sentence against   and others for civil contempt of the tribunal’s order. 
 
 Tata Sons breached its own “undertaking’’ on January 3, by calling for an extraordinary general meeting to be held on February 6 for his removal, said Aryama Sundaram, counsel for Mistry’s family companies. He said the Mistry companies were the largest minority shareholders of Tata Sons for decades and were only trying to protect against oppression of their rights to be “represented’’ by a director and against mismanagement of the $103 billion  . 
 
 Tata’s counsel Abhishek Singhvi said there was “no undertaking’’ given to stop the company affairs. He said NCLT order only meant “no new legal procedures" would be filed till the oppression and mismanagement plea is heard and decided by the tribunal. Singhvi, cited Supreme Court and high court judgments to distinguish between undertaking and consent, to deny any contempt and to say that when orders are ambiguous or open to interpretation, there cannot be contempt.
 
 Sundaram said an undertaking has no prescribed form and added that Tata’s denial of it being one, is a “specious argument“ that would set a “very dangerous precedent". If all parties concede to not take action would it not be an undertaking ?’’he asked, also citing SC judgments.
 
 Singhvi said that Mistry had adopted a “walk in walk out procedure…based on a self serving interpretation of the order. It is egregious." He He “knows he is on the way out and is trying to get an injunction after not getting an injunction last month." He sought dismissal of the contempt plea with costs and strictures.
 
 Sundaram sought a status quo order on the EGM, which he said was not urgent. “The order of status quo is to prevent multiplicity. And it should be granted. The status quo is to prevent an action of hardship."
 
 “There was no ambiguity," said Sundaram adding that words ‘No action’ meant no incremental move that affects Mistry’s director status. “that If there is ambiguity. What is the sequitur?" asked Sundaram. Judicial member Prakash Kumar who sat on the bench along with memberV Nallasenapathy asked whether he had a right to be a director? “Why did you seek this relief (to restrain Tata from holding the EGM)?"
 
 Sundaram said, ”because the notice is for his removal." “Heavens won’t fall if they stay their hands for two weeks," he added.
 
 Singhvi said Mistry could seek re-election if he wanted. He mentioned about a January letter by Mistry to the Income Tax department giving details, but Sundaram strongly objected to “misleading statement’’ and it was in response to a summons from the department.
 
 Mistry’s counsel Janak Dwarkadas added, “Violation of a court order, not just of an undertaking, is contempt too." He said, “They (Tata Sons) had no reasons to remove Mistry. The fact that IT sought information with regard to the Tata Trust from the company and its directors and such information when given by Mistry was being dubbed as leaking information and stabbing the company in the back. It was clear that the cat is out of the bag, as it is our that the Trusts are controlling the group companies."
 
 Singhvi however said, “There was a complete deficit of trust…he is out as an enemy. Can you have a person like him sitting on the board with just one objective, to cut my nose…’’
 
