NEW DELHI: Holi celebrations began at the   headquarters on Saturday, two days in advance, as the results of the polls trickled in from UP and other states. Once the verdict was out, jubilant party president   walked in and hailed Prime Minister   as the “only reason“ for the success.

 After its mandate in UP, where BJP will form government after 14 years, and a good showing in three other states, including in Manipur for the first time, Shah attributed the feat to the “popularity of Modi“ and his government's “pro-poor policies“.
 
 Addressing the media in the midst of celebrations, Shah said, “The only factor for the victory is the performance of the Modi government. The outcome has shown the faith the poor have reposed in Modi... Even his political rivals will have to admit he has emerged as the tallest leader in the country since Independence.“
 
 The party will felicitate Modi on Sunday , after which the parliamentary board, its highest decision-making body , will meet to decide chief ministerial nominees. He ex pressed confidence that BJP would form governments in Goa and Manipur, where it is short of a simple majority .
 
 The victories in UP and Uttarakhand would herald the “politics of performance“. Shah said, “The outcome will change the course of politics and will mark the end of politics of caste, nepotism and appeasement.“ He said the loan waiver omised to farmers would promised to farmers would be taken up at the first state cabinet meeting after the new government is formed.
 
 Mechanised slaughterhouses in UP would be shut down and action would be taken against Gayatri Prajapati, a minister in the outgoing Akhilesh Yadav government who faces rape charges.
 
 Markets set to break into poll dance
 
 Following the outcome of the state polls, market analysts have predicted a positive opening for the Indian equity markets on Tuesday. With BJP set to return to power in UP after 15 years and Congress gaining the lead in Punjab, market observers were of the view that the victory of the BJP in UP has great political importance and would infuse positive sentiments in the bourses
 
