AMARAVATI: If everything goes as per schedule, the final designs for   administrative capital will be cleared within two weeks. At a key meeting held with chief minister Chandrababu Naidu, group of ministers (GoM) and CRDA officials at the CM's residence in   village on Monday, representatives of Foster + Partners submitted the final draft designs to the CM. All the parties appeared to have had come to a consensus on Amaravati final designs. However, Naidu made several suggestions to the designs and asked   to submit final copies after carrying out the modifications.

 Naidu suggested changes in the designs for the Assembly, High Court and Secretariat. He advised the designers that the there buildings should be iconic structures and a tower be built for an aerial view of the entire capital.
 
 The CM also said that the administrative city will have the statue of the late CM and TDP founder NT   in the north and Ambedkar's statue in the south. “For better ad ministration, both Secretariat and HoDs' buildings will be constructed adjacent to each other and housing buildings will come opposite to HoD buildings,“ said Naidu.
 
 He said government buildings should be accommodated in administrative capital and there should be no private structures. He also stressed the need for big convention hall and parks on both sides of the capital.
 
 The architects assured that two huge parks would come up in either sides of the city. Naidu also held a lengthy discussion on the   and told F+P representatives to redesign the structure once again taking residential complexes for judges and public representatives into consideration. He further stressed on development of water bodies in the capital.
 
 Explaining about the designs of Assembly and Council hall, Foster's team said one central hall would come up between the legislative Assembly and the Council.
 
 “Once the CM finalises the designs after the modifications, government will call for tenders and work will begin as early as possible,“ a top CRDA official said.
 
