GAYA: Magadh University ( ) has stayed admissions to vocational courses, including   and BBM, in 30 colleges in regular mode under the self-finance scheme. 

 According to MU registrar   who notified the stay on Thursday, the stay has been ordered by the vice-chancellor.
 
 “The stay will continue till the finalisation of issues related to affiliation and seat limit. The state government has to take the final call on these two points and till the government takes a decision, these colleges are not permitted to enrol students for the academic session 2017-18,” said the registrar. 
 
 Under the   State Universities Act 1976, the state government is the competent authority in respect of affiliation and sanctioned strength. The university   is the recommending body for such matters.
 
 “Previous VCs had been allowing such institutions to admit students in anticipation of government approval. As per the Act, the VC cannot allow such admissions in anticipation of government approval. The government has got the powers to reject the recommendations of the university Senate and as such such approvals cannot be taken for granted,” said a legal expert.
 
 At least 20 of the 30 stay-affected colleges are located in Patna district. They include Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav College-Anisabad, Arcade Business College, College of Computer Science and Management and International Business College-Sampatchak (Patna).
 
 Six of the 30 colleges are located in Nalanda district, two in   district and one each in Nawada and Aurangabad districts.
 
 Cautioning the students and guardians against getting admission to these institutions, the MU registrar has advised them to visit the university's official website to ascertain the genuineness or otherwise of the institutions imparting vocational teaching.
 
 Besides computer application and management, the vocational courses offered in the 30 colleges include Library Science and Biotechnology.
 
 Earlier, the university disaffiliated 41 colleges and stayed admission in non-affiliated subjects in 17 other colleges. The exercise is being seen as part of the cleansing agenda being pursued by VC Qamar Ahsan to check degree scandals and other malpractices prevalent in examination, registration and vocational education sections of the university.
 
