BHOPAL: After two-year long deliberations, a   committee has in its report recommended to revise the   of the state keeping in pace with the national and   policies.

 The committee was formed to find out solution to check the increasing number of suicide cases by students. Though the panel’s report was tabled two months ago, the government is not sure how to implement it.
 
 “After the voluminous report was tabled in Vidhan Sabha during the budget session, it was forwarded immediately to the concerning departments including school education, higher education and the home department. It was also forwarded to the chief secretary,” said Vidhan Sabha principal secretary Awadhesh Pratap Singh.
 
 Minister for school education Deepak Joshi said, “The report is under consideration and the government is yet to decide how to implement it.”
 
 Headed by minister for woman and child welfare Archana Chitnis, the committee in its report also said, “Teacher guardian scheme should be made more effective and one teacher guardian should be appointed for a maximum number of 30 students.”
 
 The committee found that the number of suicide cases among students of government schools is higher than those from the private schools. The reports says most students, who committed suicide belonged to middle class families. Besides, the number of students taking the extreme step is higher in rural areas.
 
 Quoting national crime record bureau, the report said that among various reasons for suicide by youth, failure in exam accounts for 28 per cent.
 
 While compiling the report, the committee members also visited coaching hub Kota and studied the “environment of the tutorials.”
 
 Chitnis said, “It’s good to pursue a career but parents and students also must chalk out alternate career plans. While perusing A profession, B and C plans should be ready. There is much more in life than just medical and engineering professions.”
 
 The Vidhan Sabha panel was constituted in March 2015 to suggest ways and means to check the suicide cases. Though the report was to be submitted in four months, it could be tabled in two years time.
 
