MUMBAI: A day after Uddhav Thackeray alleged rampant corruption in the Jalyukta Shivar  , the   hit back with   minister Ram Shinde saying on Tuesday that the   president had made his comments without doing his homework on chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s flagship programme.

 The Shiv Sena shares power with the BJP in the state in an alliance which has been under stress because of Thackeray’s attacks on the Fadnavis regime.
 
 Thackeray’s comments came just days after allegations of corruption in the implementation of the   scheme in the Konkan by Yogesh Kadam, son of Shiv Sena minister Ramdas Kadam.
 
 Addressing a press conference in Akola on Monday, Thackeray tore into the Jalyukta Shivar scheme for water conservation. “There are many complaints of misappropriation of state government funds in the scheme. The government should look into the matter, institute a high-level inquiry and bring the water plunderers to book,” he said and likened the scheme to the infamous irrigation scandal that rocked the state during the erstwhile Congress-NCP regime.
 
 Thackeray was on a whistle-stop tour of the hinterland as part of the Shiv Sena campaign to bond with farmers and get first-hand data on agrarian issues.
 
 He urged villagers to keep the Shiv Sena posted about irregularities in the project. He said there were numerous complaints that corruption in the Jalyukta Shivar scheme was to the tune of “crores and crores” and sought an investigation.
 
 Shinde, who is in-charge of the scheme, said the Shiv Sena should have raised the issue in the cabinet or Thackeray should have talked to him. “Thackeray should have taken proper information before making an allegation,” the minister said. 
 
 He said an inquiry had been ordered and a report was expected soon.
 
 Shinde said the real reason for Kadam’s allegations was a conflict with a minister of state from his own party, Ravindra Waikar, who is also Ratnagiri guardian minister. “Kadam’s target was not me but his own guardian minister as it’s district level politics within the party,” Shinde aid.
 
