   circles were abuzz with excitement ever since   and   announced an exclusive collaboration to offer a Post Graduate Diploma in Digital Marketing (PGDDM) in Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru. 

  
  
 
 
  
  Subsequently students of Digital Marketing were in for a treat at the recently concluded first Immersion Program held in April. This most awaited event, which was held in three major cities, attracted scores of students and working professionals who, besides upgrading their skill set and learning more, also wanted to know more about making a difference in the burgeoning digital marketing industry. 
 
  
  The Immersion Program which was held at DAN's   and iProspect offices gave the students a realistic glimpse into the digital marketing world. This orientation exercise which was spread across a four day schedule included various assignments and projects that encouraged every student to clear his or her concepts and understanding. 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  The students who attended the Immersion Program at Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru came back elated and satisfied after grasping several key concepts. They found it to be a perfect blend of theory and practical learning amidst dedicated mentors who offered deep insight of various topics. Exposure to real life scenarios was another delightful takeaway for them. The objective of every Immersion Program always being to enable students to achieve extensive mastery in a respective aspect of digital marketing.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  The PGDDM program, which helps students build a successful career in digital marketing, is available for graduates and working professionals especially from the sectors of marketing, retailing and advertising. A key feature of the Immersion Program is to enable students to achieve extensive mastery in a relevant topic or aspect of Digital Marketing.
 
  
  Ashish Bhasin, Chairman and CEO South Asia, Dentsu Aegis Network (DAN) says, "Digital segment is a fast growing segment of the Indian advertising scenario. It is by far the most happening and exciting industry to be for the next 5 to 10 years. I believe, at present there is a limited talent pool for digital marketing industry. Hence, in order to uplift this segment, we have associated with TimesPro, to launch a digital marketing course in India. The course will offer practical knowledge and education by industry experts."
 
  
  
 
 
  
  The PGDDM Program is designed keeping in mind the growing need for young and dynamic professionals who will lead India into the digital age. The industry needs professionals who understand consumer behavior and leverage this knowledge in the digital domain to further corporate goals and objectives. 
 
  
  
  (TCLL), shared his views on the completion of the program, "Our constant endeavor at TCLL is to empower students with theoretical knowledge and its practical application. Our joint PGDDM program offers them excellent growth prospects which will help them thrive in the digital marketing scenario."
 
 
  
  Combined with TCLL's world-class learning infrastructure and DAN’s integrated experience and exposure in the digital medium the PGDDM promises to change the course of students who sincerely yearn to become Pros.
 
  
  For more details on course curriculum 
  or call - 1800- 102 -2323.
 
  
  
  
  
  Media Contact:
  Sheetal Tambe, Assistant Manager - Public Relations, 7045186001, sheetal.tambe@timesgroup.com
  
  Press Release by TimesPro via Brandwire.in
