JAMSHEDPUR: With   prevailing across the state and   below 8°C, health freaks are cutting down on their   to remain in the warm confines of their home. 

 The abrupt change in weather since January 11 has forced the joggers and morning walkers to keep away from jogger's park at dawn and dusk. If the conditions continue to remain the same, the footfall at prominent jogging areas will witness a substantial fall. 
 
 "Since the past five days, nearly 70% of the regular joggers and morning walkers are not turning up and I fear the number will remain the same till the cold wave like condition subsides" said 46-year-old Naresh Paswan, a Tata Steel employee who visits Joggers Park at Kadma-Sonari Link road regularly. 
 
 67-year-old Rameshwar Tiwary, a retired government school teacher, who normally visited the aforesaid park, early morning everyday, said, "From Sunday I have started going to the park around 4pm in the evening and return home after 40minutes of jogging and physical exercise." 
 
 The condition of the regular visitors at Bhetia Park in Kadma is similar. "On the advice of my wife and children, I have stopped going for morning walks at Bhetia for now but I will resume my routine as soon as the chill goes, said M K Jha, a resident of Tata Steel Workers Flats. 
 
 The 39-year-old investment consultant, Vijay Goel, who goes for a morning walk at Jubilee Park, after dropping his children to school around 7am, has also stopped going. "No morning walk for me, till the weather becomes better," he said, adding that he has no time for an evening walk. 
 
 The doctors, however advised the health freaks to go for their regular morning walk with precautions. "I would urge all the people irrespective of age, to fully cover their body with warm clothes before venturing out in the cold weather," said Mrityunjay Kumar, a practising physician. 
 
 V K Sharma, an ex TMH doctor, said that people who have a medical history of asthma, diabetes and other heart ailments, could fall victim to the cold if they do not take adequate measures. 
 
 "Fog could be dangerous for such people, hence proper precautions should be taken while going out early in the morning for walks and jogging," he said.
 
 
