KHARGONE: Overwhelmed by emerging as the 17th cleanest city, in   Sarvekshan 2017, employees and officers of the urban development ministry celebrated the achievement in style at the Khargone municipality office.

 Khargone topped the nation in municipality and received a national award for ‘India’s Fastest Moving City’ under a population of two lakh. They danced to drum beats and celebrated by bursting firecrackers.
 
 Khargone collector Ashok Verma, chief medical officer Nishikant Shukla and president of Khargone municipality Vipin Gour received the award.
 
 Khargone toppled other cities because of awareness among people, the potential of the municipality sanitary team, solid waste management (including sweeping, door-to-door collection, transportation and processing garbage) and the achievement ODF, said an overwhelmed Shukla. He added that Khargone Municipality has topped the nation in the less than two lakh population category.
 
 Three hundred and eight employees and 18 garbage collection vehicles for segregated waste collected an average of 40 tons of solid garbage daily in 33 wards of Khargone. Compactor machines worked at night and collected around 15 tons of garbage a day and transported it to trenching ground which produced compost. More than 100 litterbins, 150 big containers and private dustbins are kept in the city, said CMO Nishikant Shukla.
 
 “We studied the cleanliness guidelines properly and executed a thorough plan. We installed GPS in garbage vehicles and received feedback along with people’s name and mobile numbers so that nobody can cheat,” he said.
 
 He added that all public places were cleaned twice a day and achieved ODF status by constructing and upgrading community toilets. People were motivated to maintain cleanliness through various campaigns, skits, puppet shows, stage dramas, painting and essay competitions at schools and colleges as well as through hoardings, banners and posters.
 
 Khargone collector Ashok Verma appreciated the municipality team’s work and said every facility will be provided to them to keep the momentum.
 
 President of Khargone municipality Vipin Gour said, “We have topped the state as well as the nation and it is a tough task to maintain the position but we hope to go further.”
 
 Another person behind the success Prakash Chitte, health officer at Khargone municipality told TOI his team worked very hard to achievement this goal and are very happy as their efforts paid off.
 
