AHMEDABAD: The   Lalbhai (KL) museum, which is being readied by the Lalbhai family, one of the oldes and most prominent business families of the city, will also have a special gallery depicting the family's history of over 400 years. A dedicated building is currently being constructed in the museum complex for the purpose.

 The museum, housed in two buildings including a centuryold ancestral bungalow of Lalbhais at Shahibaug, will be inaugurated on January 29 with the family and their friends in attendance. It will be opened to public on February 16.
 
 “We are also creating a special gallery in a new building coming up on the left side of the ancestral house for recording the history of Lalbhai family starting from Shantidas Seth,“ said Jayshree Lalbhai, wife of industrialist  . The gallery will have family photographs, letters, correspondence, farmans (royal orders) given to Lalbhai family and books, which mention members of Lalbhai family .
 
 “I am also in the process of digitizing photographs and letters. We have requested the national archives to give us copies of all papers that we have given them. We also need a historian and a person to help designing the gallery,“ she said. The building is currently in the initial stage of construction.
 
 Restored by renowned architect Rahul Mehrotra, the museum aims to bring alive the family legacy and pay tribute to Sanjay Lalbhai's grandfather Kasturbhai Lalbhai.
 
 “This house is of a great significance because it is a family home and we wanted to restore it back to its original glory, and then put it to use for showcasing these collections," said Jayshree Lalbhai.
 
 She has been actively working to create the museum, which will house an eclectic collection of 2,000 years of Indian art handpicked by Kasturbhai, including miniatures and bronze collection of   family; paintings of different schools including Persian, Mughal, Deccan and Pahari as well as painted postcards from pre-independence India along with art in stone, metal and wood.
 
