GURUGRAM: Four men, three of them masked, held two salesmen of a   in Sector 49 at gunpoint and made off with about Rs 2 lakh in cash on Wednesday night, making it the third such robbery in less than a week. This indicates an emerging crime trend in the city.

 Preliminary probe suggests the   outlet, Kuldeep Wine Shop, located near Vatika City, was robbed following the same modus operandi that was adopted in the previous two incidents. However, cops are not sure whether all three  , which have taken place in quick succession, were the handiwork of the same criminal gang.
 
 According to Kuldeep and Ganesh, the two salesmen who were looking after the outlet, four bike-borne men arrived at the shop around 9.30pm and asked for a bottle of liquor. When Kuldeep turned to fetch the bottle, the men fished out their weapons and put them on Kuldeep and Ganesh’s heads. They thrashed the salesmen and reached out for the locker, cleaning out all the cash. 
 
 The robbers allegedly also robbed two customers Sanjay Singh and Kunj Lal, who were present at the shop at the time of the incident. They snatched a phone and Rs 1,100 from Sanjay and Rs 1,200 from Kunj. 
 
 The four robbers then sped away on two bikes towards Ghata, firing a few rounds in the air. 
 
 Based on Kuldeep’s complaint, an FIR has been lodged at Sadar police station under various sections of the Arms Act and Section 379 (punishment for theft) of the IPC. 
 
 ASI Jagdish said the robbery had been captured on CCTV cameras installed in and outside the shop, and cops were processing the footage to identify the robbers. No arrest has been made so far in the case. 
 
 “It’s not yet confirmed if the same   who had robbed two liquor shops earlier, were involved in this case as well,” he added. 
 
 On February 11 night, four armed men robbed a wine shop in Sector 37 of Rs 40,000 in cash, after holding the salesmen at gunpoint. Similarly, on Tuesday night, four armed youths held two salesmen and the accountant of a liquor shop on Khandsa road at gunpoint, and robbed Rs 1.5 lakh. Police have failed to make any breakthroughs in any of these cases.
 
 
