News had been doing the rounds for a few days that  's currently ongoing film has run into trouble, following issues with local people from Chenkalchoola, where the film is being shot. Manju has issued a clarification now, saying that there has never been any issues with the locals, and that there has been a huge misunderstanding. "I am shooting for my latest movie,  , at Chenkalchoola, Thiruvananthapuram since the first week of May. From the first day of shoot, the people of   have provided unprecedented support for me and team for the movie. They have given me lots of love and respect and I will remain indebted to them for the consideration and concern that I have received from the people," she says.
 
 She goes on to explain the real reason behind the rumours. "During the last few days, I have been noticing a few attempts in several online media to alienate and antagonize the people of Chenkalchoola against my colleagues and me. This has been effected by the unnecessary exaggeration of an event where nobody from Chenkalchoola was involved. During one of the days at the location, a group approached us and invited me for a book distribution event. They insisted that I attend the event even when I had regretted informing them about the requirement for the movie and make-up related details. When we found that the group is adamant, we explained to them that it’s not possible because of the requirements of the special make-up that I need to keep on through the day. I had spoken to them personally and conveyed the message through my colleagues. When the group understood that we are conveying the truth, they left the location amicably." 
 
 However, the incident has been exaggerated, she says. "The perpetrators of the news added masala by saying that it is an attempt by someone in the field of cinema. I am saddened at the baseless allegations that are being leveled against my colleagues. There has been no incident of anyone pointing their finger at me in Chenkalchoola, let alone daggers.
  
 I apologize for the discomfort caused by me and team Udaharanam Sujatha to the people of Chenkalchoola, Thiruvananthapuram."
 
