KOCHI: If the private medical colleges don't get their act together, the state stands to lose more than 1,000 MBSS seats the next academic year. The   (MCI) conducted inspection in 11 private medical colleges that were given conditional recognition by the   (OC) and found that about eight of them don't have adequate facilities. The MCI has submitted a report to the Central government to de-bar these colleges from taking fresh students from 2017-18. 

 These medical colleges were granted conditional permission by the OC to take students for the year the 2016-17. This is after MCI recommended de-recognition of these colleges after inspection for lack of adequate facilities. However, the OC order overturned MCI recommendation and allowed these colleges to admit students subject to a few conditions.
 
 The MCI website lists 11 colleges that were granted conditional permission for renewal of recognition by the OC. These include   and Super Speciality Hospital, Thodupuzha, DM Wayanad Institute of Medical Sciences, Wayanad, Kerala Medical College, Palakkad, Malabar Medical College, Kozhikode, Mount Zion Medical College, Pathanamthitta, PK Das Institute of Medical Sciences, Palakkad and SR Medical College and Research Centre, Varkala. KMCT Medical College, Kozhikode, Dr Somervel Memorial CSI Hospital and Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, Kannur Medical College, Kannur and   and research Foundation, Thiruvananthapuram, also got permission from OC to increase medical seats besides stoppage of de-recognition. The OC stipulated that these colleges will have to submit an affidavit to fill in all the deficiencies and the MCI may conduct inspection after September 30, 2016, to verify the compliance submitted by the colleges. Also OC said that if it was found that the colleges failed to comply in the inspection to be conducted after September 30, then they will be debarred from fresh student intake for 2 years commencing from 2017-18. The colleges had to ensure adequate faculty, infrastructure, clinical material, bed occupancy and other requirements.
 
 "As per OC instructions, we conducted inspection and found that many of the colleges have failed to remove the deficiencies and we have informed the Central government of the same," said a MCI official. Sources said that notices have been issued to these colleges and two colleges have already responded to the same.
 
 "Of these 11 colleges, three of them have complied with the OC stipulations at the time of MCI inspection. However, eight have failed and they are at risk of being debarred for two years," said a private medical college management official. 
 
 However, no official comment was forthcoming either from the MCI or private college managements on the issue.
 
 
