JAIPUR: Once upon a time, Sriganganagar area in arid state of Rajasthan was well fed with rain and witnessed several floods. The exposé of climate change has come through an   (ASI) excavation at site dating back to at least 4,500 years. This is Harappan site in Binjor village in Sriganganagar, located between two canals of the Ghaggar River. Archaeologists have found several evidences of flood with traces of river soil, turtle shells and fish bones at excavated site that was once also an industrial hub. The third season of the excavation would start in the first week of January 2017.

 The 150m-200m site, which is a few kilometres from Binjor village, in   tehsil of Sriganganagar district is about 7 km from the India-Pakistan border. The purpose of the excavation at 4MSR was to learn about the early Harappan deposits, relationship with other contemporary sites and to fill the gap between the late Harappan phase and the Painted Grey Ware culture.
 
 “In the past two seasons, we explored over 100 hearths in the alluvial plains of the Ghaggar River. Ghaggar is the modern name given to Saraswati River. Several hearths have been discovered at Kalibanga, but Binjor is a much smaller village site. This is the only site with traces of an entire industrial settlement with lots of furnaces and hearth, which means there were craftsmen residing here 4,500 years ago. Industry has been reported in various other sites but not of this scale. This small industrial settlement is unique compared to the other sites,” said  , co-director of the ASI’s excavation branch.
 
 A special feature of 4MSR is the discovery of a well-baked clay and precisely decorated with paintings perforated jar, a perforated bowl with a hole at the bottom and a perforated pot, confirming its status as a mature Harappan site. A variety of artefacts have been found during the excavation confirming that 4MSR has all the traits of a mature Harappan civilisation. These include a perforated jar, a pot and a bowl, jars for storage, black-on-red and plain red ceramics, goblets, pots with pencil mouths, mud-brick structures, painted pottery with a variety of designs etc. Goblets have rims with lines incised at perfect intervals.
 
 Other important artefacts obtained from the site are beads made of carnelian, lapis lazuli, steatite, agate and terracotta, copper, shell and terracotta bangles and copper rings and fish hooks. Besides, archaeologists also found terracotta spindles and whorls, weights made out of stone, terracotta sling balls, toy-cart frames, figurines of humped bulls, and arrowheads. Of particular interest is a potsherd with the impression of a fabric. The center piece of the discoveries was a fragment of a gold ornament for the ear. It is rare to find gold ornaments in Harappan sites although tubular gold beads have been found in Khirsara and Lothal, both Harappan sites in Gujarat, revealed officials.
 
 The excavation also revealed that there were successive floor levels made of mud bricks, especially in the industrial area of the site. “It shows that whenever the original floor in which the Harappans were working got damaged; they built another floor over it. Between two floors, we have found a lot of ash, charcoal, bones, pottery and artefacts. There are even some kutcha drains in some trenches,” he said.
 
 
