NEW DELHI: “The upcoming   at Bawana might be a sign of development and progress, but it’ll directly hit our bellies,” said Saira Bano (32), a garbage collector at Bhalaswa. With the corporation elections due in April, over 70 ragpickers and garbage collectors from across Delhi took part in a ‘public hearing’ on Thursday seeking their basic rights.

 “We must keep in mind the 2,500 families who pick up, segregate and recycle garbage at Bhalaswa landfill site,” said Saira. Yashpal, another ragpicker from Netaji Nagar and RK Puram, narrated how the corporation’s decision to employ private concessionaires for door-to-door garbage collection had affected them. “What will a kabadi eat, how will he feed his children when more such companies come this year,” he said at the event organised by Chintan, an NGO, and attended by central officials, RWAs and local politicians. 
 
 Jai Prakash Chaudhary, secretary of   — an organisation of 12,000 waste-collectors, said Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 had specific provisions for identifying, organising and training these people but one year had passed and nothing had been done. “We don’t even have identity cards.”
 
 Waste-collectors narrated the horrific experiences they had to go through due to lack of any document. Mujahida (21), who was born near Ghazipur landfill site, said, “Civic officials and police demand bribe from us for picking up garbage just because we don’t have an I-card. I used to work in the waste-to-energy plant here but was fired when I fell ill for two days after inhaling toxic fumes.” Mujahida said the plant operators refused to pay her dues as she didn’t have an I-card. 
 
 Most of them are illiterate, making the paper work all the more difficult. “The government should try to find ways to minimise the paper work,” said Chitra Mukherjee of Chintan. 
 
 Krishna Kumar Bhagat, who works at an agency under the social justice and empowerment ministry, said the definition of safai karamcharis was amended six months ago to include garbage collectors. “Once the state government gives them identity card, they can now access loans and skill development programmes.” 
 
 
