From pictures of   students celebrating Holi on their campus to pictures depicting annual Baisakhi celebrations by the Sikh American community in California, around 30 frames were displayed in an exhibition at the  . The pictures showed how Indian-Americans practice their faith and traditions in the United States and how Indian faith and traditions have also been adopted by the Americans. The exhibition, titled 'Keeping Faith: Indian Religious Traditions in the United States', was recently inaugurated by the US Embassy Charge d'Affaires MaryKay Carlson, Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) Director Amarendra Khatua and India Islamic Cultural Center President Sirajuddin Qureshi.

  
  Around 30 frames were displayed at the exhibition. While some showcased how Indians practised their faith and tradition in the US, others displayed Americans participating in Indian festivals like Holi and Baisakhi (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
  
  (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
  
 The exhibition, that will be on display at the American Center till May 31, was also showcased in Chandigarh and at Aligarh Muslim University. Talking about the concept, Jonathan Kessler, director, North India office, US Embassy, said, "When I first came to India, I met a lot of people in north India and asked them what would they like to see about the United States. A lot of people told me that they would like to see how Indians live in the US, how religions like Islam and Hinduism are practised in the US. So, we went to groups which curate exhibitions and they in turn reached out to the Indian diaspora in the US, and each sent pictures to us. The best pictures were selected from the lot - the pictures that told the story of Indian religions in the US. We are planning to take this exhibition to as many people as possible. We showcased these pictures in Chandigarh and Aligarh Muslim University, and after Delhi, we are looking to take this exhibition to Jaipur and Lucknow. We might even plan to showcase it in  ."
 
  
  (L-R) Amarendra Khatua, director, Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), Sirajuddin Qureshi, president of India Islamic Cultural Center and Jonathan Kessler, director, North India office, the US embassy
 
 
  
 MaryKay said, "As one goes through the exhibit, one would see photos of Jains in northern California celebrating Paryushana, Hindus in New England celebrating the consecration of the area’s first Hindu temple and Muslims preparing themselves for prayer at the Islamic Center of Boston. For me, these images distil the essence of American pluralism and diversity."
 
 
