Gurgaon: Haryana State Pollution Control Board ( ) has directed   to submit within a week a status report on steps taken to curb   and improve   in Gurgaon.

 Terming the direction, sent last week, the final reminder ̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶ Huda failed to respond to two previous notices HSPCB asked the urban development body to give top priority to the ‘sensitive matter’, being monitored regularly by the National Green Tribunal, Ministry of environment and forest, Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority and the Central Pollution Control Board. Construction activities, burning of waste and traffic congestion are considered major reasons for Gurgaon’s high air pollution levels. Huda is expected to initiate comprehensive steps to tackle changes, following   guidelines.
 
 “Huda has to submit compliance report on steps it has taken to curb air pollution. Most of the ongoing construction activities are in Huda sectors. Thus, it is the urban body’s responsibility to ensure implementation of NGT directives and take action against violators, if any,” said Bhupender Singh, regional officer, HSPCB.
 
 Earlier, HSPCB had written to Huda on November 17, 2016 and January 6, seeking an action taken report on the NGT guidelines. “But Huda failed to submit any compliance report or respond to the above mention letters,” the latest letter read.
 
 The letter further highlighted that HSPCB had received various communications from  ,   and  , all demanding a progress report on the matter.
 
 In this regard, CPCB had issued directives on December 29, 2015, under Section 18(1)(b) of the Air Act, 1981, for prevention and control of air pollution, and improvement of air quality in Delhi and NCR.
 
 Later, in its order dated November 10, 2016, with regard to the Vardhaman Kaushik case, NGT had constituted a monitoring committee under the chairmanship of the MoEF secretary, and a state-level committee under the chairmanship of the Haryana chief secretary.
 
 “During the second meeting of the MoEF-led monitoring committee, held on February 15, HSPCB could not apprise the committee of the progress made, as it did not receive any communication from Huda,” the letter highlighted, adding that the matter would be reviewed again by the state-level committee shortly.
 
 Without elaborating on reasons for the delay in submitting the compliance report, a senior Huda official said they will ensure compliance of the NGT directive and take action against violations soon. “We will submit the compliance report shortly,” said the official.
 
