VADODARA: Another incident of brutality on a school student has come to the fore at a city-based school.

 A class X girl student on Friday alleged that she was beaten up by   of   on Tuesday last when the male teacher came to know that she had not brought her English textbook.
 
 According to the girl student, whose father is a driver, she along with couple of other students had forgot to bring English textbook .
 
 “Although, the teacher who teaches us English did not punish us, the judo teacher, who was passing by stopped at the classroom and asked all the students who forgot to bring their textbooks to come out of the class,“ the girl student told TOI.
 
 “Later, he started be ating us with an iron scale even as I promised that I will not forgot to bring the textbook again,“ she said, adding that she along with six other students had to face such humiliating punishment from the hands of the judo teacher Roshan Shelar.
 
 The girl's elder cousin who approached the school's management complaining about the harsh punishment alleged that the management refused to entertain the complaint.
 
 “They even threatened that if we raise the issue, the girl's admission will be cancelled and she will not get admission in any other school in the city as there is a union of all the schools in the city,“ said her cousin Vishal Trivedi, claiming that he had reached the school on Thursday when instead of admitting their fault, the school management started blaming the girl student for being mischievous.
 
 According to Trivedi, he decided to raise an alarm, after the doctor, who treated the girl child, said that it will take at least a week before the swelling on the child's hand caused due to the beating subsides.
 
 “When we reached the school on Friday, teachers were asking other students, who had faced similar punishments, to remain mum or take side of the judo teacher,“ he said.
 
 School principal Minesh Shah however said that the incident had happened during recess time. “From the version that we have received, we are being informed that the judo teacher wanted to take some disciplinary action against the student but he did not beat her intentionally,“ he said.
 
 “The judo teacher told us that he wanted to lightly reprimand the girl student but by mistake, his scale hurt a finger of the girl student ­ an incident which he is regretting,“ he said, adding that on the same day the girl student was provided treatment at the school.
 
 Shah said that the school has taken an unconditional apology in writing from the judo teacher who has been relieved.
 
 “Also, while the teacher himself has apologised about the incident, we have also spoken to parents of the girl child. The issue is being blown out of proportion by relatives of the student,“ he said.
 
