GURUGRAM: Reeling under  , mainly due to enhanced compensation for  , government land aggregator and developer Huda has declared it will do away with land acquisition. Instead, the development authority is planning to adopt   system for future projects.

 The state government is likely to come up with its new land pooling policy in the next few days, to ensure availability of land for development and infrastructure projects without hassle. “Under the new Land Acquisition Act of 2014, acquisition has become cumbersome and expensive. That’s why the government was exploring other ways to push development activities. Now we’ll come up with a new policy, of land pooling, to overcome the challenges,” said a senior government official, adding that the policy will be made public in the next few days.
 
 Elaborating further, he said under the new policy, Huda will enter into a mutual agreement with land owners. “After it is developed, the land loser will be returned a portion of this land. In case of infrastructure work like roads, they will be given developed land in an adjacent locality,” he said, adding that several state governments have adopted this system, and even Huda has acquired land to develop Sector 110A in 2016 under this scheme.
 
 Unlike land acquisition, in case of land pooling, chances of litigations is negligible as land owners are partners in the development, and land is taken after their consent. Indore Development Authority (IDA) has been practising land pooling for several years, from long before the new Land Acquisition Act was enacted in 2014. Andhra Pradesh is constructing its new capital on land taken through land pooling. Recently, Delhi Development Authority has also come up with a land pooling policy.
 
 In the three years after the new Land Acquisition Act was enacted, several cases were filed before court, leading to enhancement of compensation and delay in ongoing projects. “Huda, which was cash surplus, became bankrupt by paying enhanced compensation. During these past three years, we had to give up acquisition of several land parcels, including land for developing green areas in new sectors, mainly due to unavailability of funds,” said the official, adding this was hampering the city’s development.
 
 The state government has been finding ways to avoid land acquisition. In February 2017, Haryana approved a special land exchange programme for oustees of Khandsa village. Once again in Khandsa village, fearing litigation and delay, the state government approved land exchange for the the 5 acres it needed to widen Badshapur drain, under which, land losers were offered equivalent sized plots in Sector 37C along with compensation for their homes.
 
