PUNE: Unless a mounted flex saying “The   of Maharashtra“ was present on top of a rusting gate beside the imposing St Patrick's Cathedral, only a few would catch a glimpse of the compound, let alone the buildings inside.

 From the trundling exterior of Pune-Solapur Road, on the edge of the chaotic   intersection, the seminary is an oasis of calm. 
 
 A demarcation board, ostensibly from the Ministry of Defence displays the trustees to whom the four acres it stands on has been conferred to. The interior looks straight out of a sleepy British county town, or from one of the novels set inside antiquated British settlements in Indian hill stations.
 
 Water drips down the slanting roofs of a mid-sized chapel, right at the entrance.The gravel path inside is drenched. Puddles of water dot the area. The garden needs maintenance, but somehow exudes calm and beauty in its own way. The spot looks almost abandoned, until one encounters a flex of a sale of Christian books at a Camp bookshop, with heavy discounts on the Bible.
 
 The bricks of the chapel have been painted red, in attempts at refurbishment.The windows of the chapel, the pointed spire, look   seminary here is among the oldest in  , set up in 1878.
 
 There are some quarters, ostensibly for the faculty, but that is towards the rear end of the campus. Before that, a long, English cottage style house catches the eye. The tiled roof extends to the front porches. Behind wicker fences, there are rows of rooms, used as classrooms, used to impart the word of God to would-be pastors and priests.
 
 Towards the northern end of the bungalow, a wicker mesh hides the door of the library.
 
 “I don't know the exact count, but I have heard about 6,500 books being there, mostly about theology and Christian studies,“ says one of the caretakers of the campus, standing on the porch, stuck in the rain.
 
 Seminaries in India, unknown to many , is a sanctioned field of study by no less than the  . This seminary , which offers bachelor's degrees in theology and Bible studies, is no standalone religious institution either.
 
 The Senate of Serampore College (University) has a storied past. It was set up by three English missionaries, including  , at a suburb few miles north of Kolkata in 1818, but its proclamation was brought about by the Danish rulers of Serampore, till they sold off their assets to the British, and left the subcontinent for good. It is closely associated with the eponymous Serampore College, and came to be the first institution in India to be accorded the status of a university .
 
 Till date, this seminary continues to be a part of the University. For the locals, they just know it as an ocean of calm.
 
 “I sometimes wait here till my son gets out of school (St Patrick's School, located adjacent). It is too calm here.I thought this was an abandoned bungalow, to be honest,“ says Neeta Kamble, who lives a few miles away in Fatimanagar.
 
