Nagpur: It was an amalgamation of right time, place and tradition at the auditorium of SCZCC (South Central Zone Cultural Centre) on Sunday morning where another chapter of its monthly musical programme, Brahmanaad, was played out. Classical vocalist Manas Vishwaroop cast a spell on the audience with his renditions of bandish, thumri, taraana and natya geet.

 Carrying a fine lineage of music as his father Dr Himanshu Vishwaroop is a violinist and mother Veena a vocalist, Manas has trained under Babanrao Haldankar of Agra gharana. With the concert falling on Guru Pournima, the vocalist paid a tribute to not just his guru but to the stage also which had fetched him a prize at a classical music contest for youth organized by SCZCC in 2014.
 
 Vishwaroop began his renditions befittingly with raga Ramkali, a signature raga of Agra gharana. The bandish ‘Doliya le aao re’ was set to Tilwada taal. He summed it up with another bandish of Ustad Faiyyaz Khan, ‘Un sang lagi mori akhaiyan’ set to drut Teen taal. Presenting his guru’s bandish in Alahiya Billawal, ‘Mangal gaao chouk purao’, Manas displayed his mastery over the genre with his robust aalaaps and taan. The range of his voice in high and low notes, the finesse of the taans and his absolute command over the swar all got together to bring out the beauty of the raga and the compositions.
 
 Playing to popular taste, Manas presented a natya geet written by Raja Badhe who hailed from Nagpur. He brought out the beauty of the vintage composition of Jitendra Abhisheki, ‘Vanvasi viyogi Ramchandra’, before moving on to an abhang by sant Eknath, ‘Omkar swaroopa sadguru samartha’. The young vocalist picked up a bandish in drut lay of his guru — ‘Kali ghata chhai chhai re’ and converted it into a thumri which was relished by the audience. The performance ended with a flourish with the combination of two taraanas in raag Desh composed by Dhrupad singer Abhay Narayan Mallick.
 
 If classical music is about presenting emotions and feelings through swar, then young Manas has already arrived. The leisurely pace with which he savoured every swara, his play with notes and the manner in which he works upon it before delivering it is sheer delight. 
 
 Satisfied with the performance, Manas told TOI, “It was the title of the programme, ‘Brahmanaad’ which attracted me. This presentation was about naad or music being produced at brahma mahurat. That it was Guru Pournima too made it all the more special as I could get the blessings of the audience.”
 
 Quotes 
 
 This concert was almost therapeutic. The early morning timing and the excellent singing by Manas was a treat. I especially loved the natya geet and the taraana
 
 Leena Thakre | homemaker
 
 I have heard Manas Vishwaroop before also and he is a very promising singer and has a bright future. I love this programme and today was special as it was Guru Pournima too.
 
 Suresh Khardenavis | tabla player
 
 This is the first time I heard this singer and he was very amazing. I liked the aalaaps and the natya geet which he presented. His singing was so measured and absolutely awesome.
 
 Vaishali Patil | homemaker
 
 
