KOLKATA:   flying into Kolkata on Thursday morning were taken by surprise by   as a   engulfed the airport. Seven flights were diverted to other airports and several departing flights were delayed after operations at the   were shut down for two hours during peak morning hours as visibility dropped below 50m.

 According to sources in air traffic control, visibility began to deteriorate around 6am and fell below the minimum required for safe operations 30 minutes later. The fog persisted for two hours before visibility improved.Flights, both international and domestic, were diverted to other airports inculding Yangon and Bhubaneswar.
 
 The fog took everyone off-guard as the winter had been unusually fog-free.“There has been hardly any disruption in December and January when opera tions in Kolkata generally get hit by fog.Poor visibility in March is very unusual,“ an airport official said.
 
 The advanced Category-II instrument landing system (ILS) that helps pilots steer flights in poor visibility conditions is currently disabled at Kolkata airport due to runway recarpeting work. Instead, a lower category-I ILS is available but it allows operations up to 550m visibility .
 
 Explaining the unusual weather phenomenon, meterological department aviation services director (air port) G C Debnath said moisture incursion from Bay of Bengal through the night due to shallow high pressure belt over Bengal had led to 100% humidity .The open marshland to the north and east of the runway further contributed to moisture. As the temperature dipped to 19°C in the early hours of Thursday,a blanket of fog enveloped the area.
 
 What also assisted the fog formation was tiny carbon particle presence in the air. The suspended particulate matter is released by emission from trucks which ply all night on NH-31that passes by , and the planes in the airport also contribute to the fog formation.
 
 “The microclimate in and around the airport contributed to the condition. With the wind blowing at a gentle 3 knots, it did not drive the fog away till after 8am when the sun warmed the air and caused the wind to pick up speed,“ said Debnath.
 
 Though the meterological office in Alipore has predicted light rain over the weekend, Debnath does not expect the fog conditions to recur causing further flight disruption.
 
