BENGALURU: Recently nabbed for stealing ATM card data, Romanian national Dan Sabin Cristian, 40 and his Hungarian associate Mare Janos, 44, landed in Bengaluru on September 1 on tourist visas. They had booked return tickets for September 19. 

 The duo had collected confidential banking information of thousands of people who had used five ATMs and is suspected to have sold it to their associates in the UK, before they were arrested on Wednesday.
 
 Officers from police’s cybercrime wing said they managed to catch the duo before any customer reported loss of money.
 
 HC Kishore Chandra, director general of   (CID), said officials from Kotak Mahindra Bank informed cops they had found   devices installed in their ATM kiosks on MG Road. Cybercrime sleuths registered a case and formed a team headed by dySPs MD Sharath and Badrinath. The probe culminated with the arrest of Cristian and Janosby by inspectors CS Anand and Manjunath at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA).
 
 “The accused are part of an organized criminal gang operating from the UK. They travelled to India on tourist visas only for the purpose of stealing credentials of debit/credit cards from ATM users. They captured card details with the help of skimming devices and PINs/passwords through a pinhole camera secretly installed above the numeric pad. Fradsters usually share data with their associates in exchange of money,” Chandra said.
 
 CID sources said the duo initially stayed at Curzon Court, MG Road and later shifted to RG Royal Hotel, Mahalakshmi Layout. They zeroed in on some ATM kiosks and carefully put up skimmers and pinhole cameras. They carried spray painters and dryers with them. “Installing the devices was a two-minute job for them. They would spray paint the devices to ensure they matched the ATM machine colour. They did this pretending to be ATM users,” a source explained.
 
 Three skimming devices, three cellphones, two passports, memory card readers, memory cards, a pinhole camera, spray painters and dryers, one laptop and one hard disk have been recovered from the duo.
 
 Police said according to their passports, they are first-time visitors to India and arrived from the UK. Cops are yet to ascertain whether they have visited India earlier using other passports. Analysis of their travel pattern indicates they travelled around the world for similar frauds. 
 
 “They have travelled to USA, Mexico, Guatemala, Philippines, France, Argentina, Uruguay and Jamaica. One of the accused is facing a criminal case in Jamaica. Apparently, there have been banned from entering the US and Jamaica,” Chandra said.
 
 “We have intimated the embassies concerned about their arrest. We will get more information about their gang with the help of  ,” the DGP said.
 
