KOCHI: The   at Government Girls High School, Ernakulam, was held on Wednesday .For the first time   cast their votes using a   developed by Kochibased startup `Secret Ballot'.This digital voting machine is the brainchild of Regil Das, the CEO of Secret-Ballot.com and e-Com developers.

 Secret Ballot is the digitized version of the present day electronic voting machine (EVM) and ballot paper.So it is literally a virtual replacement of the EVM. Using the Secret Ballot app, your laptop, android or IOS devices can be turned into voting machines. All one needs to do is download the app from our website or from Google Play app store. The tablets or tabs will serve as the voting ma chine and the laptops will serve as the electronic ballot box, said Regil Das, CEO of Secret-Ballot.com.
 
 The parliament election was conducted for High School students (Class 8 ­ Class 10) of the institution.Varuna Nath, a Class 10 student was elected as the school leader.
 
 Around 400 students of Govt GHSS cast their vote to elect class leaders. As many as 30 students contested for the post of class leader. There were two polling booths and two presiding officers.
 
 “We conduct school Parliamentary elections to famil iarize and create awareness among students regarding the election and voting process using digital voting machines. It will instill in them the importance and the need to exercise vote when they become adults. It will also make them civic minded,“ said Gopinathan M, headmaster of Govt GHSS for girls.
 
 The first-time voters at the school were excited to cast their first digital vote. Arjasree A R, a Class X student said the digital voting machine is interesting as it saves time and is transparent.
 
 “I have seen long queues in front of polling stations during election time last year and some of them didn't turn up to cast votes due to the lengthy process involved in this regard. This time nothing like that happened. Within one tap, the voting was done.No waste of time and no long queues,“ said Arjasree.
 
