KOLKATA:   is set to wake up to a happy Thursday when people can occupy the streets—freed of   for a few hours—to play, dance,  ,   or just amble around on the second day of   2017. The event will coincide with Swami Vivekananda’s154th birth anniversary, a state government holiday.

 As Happy Streets was unveiled last Sunday, more than 10,000 people, from infants to retired executives, cut short their much-treasured sleep on a winter weekend and hit the stretch near Central Park at the break of the day to “set their spirit soaring”. 
 
 “I had been to Happy Streets that were held on Park Street in 2016 and 2015 and I had a great time. So, I returned to it in Salt Lake and I have to say, it was even better this time. The wide streets of Salt Lake with trees on both sides and cleaner air is a perfect set-up for such an event. I have bought a new set of tracksuits especially for Thursday,” said Sourav Gupta, a resident of Phoolbagan. Gupta will be at the morning carnival with his family and a group of cousins who live in south Kolkata.
 
 The 1.5km t-shaped car-free zone, comprising the stretch off Broadway and Fourth Avenue just adjacent to Central Park, will be lined with cycle tracks, skating zones and a variety of outdoor game zones, like those for badminton, cricket, football, tug-of-war and basketball. There will be a special area for kids’ activities and an arena for karate and other forms of martial art. Live entertainment, dance, music, aerobics and yoga will also be held from 7am till 9.30am.
 
 The Bidhannagar City Police who played a pivotal role in making the event a success on Sunday said they were all geared up for the second day. The cops had set up their own stalls that featured police band, bomb disposal squad activities, demonstration sessions on speed guns, breathalysers and drones. They even put out police bikes that people could take out for a ride and take selfies on.
 
 “Since this is the first event of its kind in Salt Lake, we were apprehensive about the number of people who would attend it. But the turnout was overwhelming. We are all ready for this Thursday. There would be enough cops to ensure the event goes off without a glitch. We have lined up some surprise activities for the entertainment as well as the awareness of the people coming in,” said Gyanwant Singh, Bidhannagar police commissioner.
 
 Close to 10,000 people have already registered themselves on the Facebook page of “Happy Streets Salt Lake”, interested in attending the event. A majority of those who had already attended the event last Sunday plan to return on Thursday. “I had to attend my father’s office picnic last Sunday. But I saw the photographs on the timeline of a friend and I am dying to attend it next Thursday,” said Anuj Pandey, a resident of Salt Lake AE Block.
 
 Happy Streets is a TOI initiative in association with Bidhannagar City Police. 
 
 
