HYDERABAD: In a major setback for Telangana, the   expressed its helplessness in amicably settling the issue of sharing of   between  . At the wrap up meeting with the two states here on Wednesday, the committee said the sharing of water would be addressed by the Brijesh Kumar tribunal.

 On sharing of Polavaram and Pattiseema compensatory water too, the committee refused to intervene and told Telangana that it would bring the matter to the notice of the Centre. Shocked over the committe e's response, the Telangana government has decided to send irrigation advisor R Vidyasagar Rao to New Delhi to complain to the Centre about the approach of the Bajaj panel to the issue. The TRS government is frustrated with the com mittee's latest enquiry about small and minor water resources which has been raised by Andhra Pradesh government.
 
 Peeved over the committee's response, chief minister   has offered to settle the disputes with AP through negotiations. “After its return from Vijayawada, the Bajaj committee has gone back on its word. In fact, during the first meeting, the committee had clearly agreed with us that sharing of Pattiseema and Polavaram compensatory water is on the agenda,“ said Vidyasagar Rao.
 
 Irrigation special chief secretary Shailendra Kumar Joshi expressed his displeasure over the committee not taking any decision on the contentious issues.
 
 “If there is no constructive cooperation and cordial attitude between the two states on sharing of the water, these issues would not get resolved and may turn even more complex,“ said Joshi.
 
 Later, the five-member committee met Chandrasek har Rao who favoured a dialogue between the two states in place of legal wrangles.
 
 “There must be plan 1 and plan 2 for sharing the river water. Plan 1 should be for water shortage years and plan 2 for the surplus years. The upper riparian states are building more dams and barrages to stop the water flow to the lower riparian states. This is making our life miserable during the water shortage years. The committee must address this problem immediately,“ KCR told the panel members.
 
 After their meeting with the CM, the committee completed its three-day tour of the two states and assured both that it would submit a report soon to the water resources ministry .
 
