NEW DELHI: After clearing her   in April, 15-year-old Meena (name changed) was getting ready for her next class when her world turned upside down as a gang of human traffickers picked her up from near her house in Faridabad. 

 A student at a Delhi school, Meena was allegedly raped by two traffickers before they   her off for Rs 60,000 to a woman running a brothel in the capital.
 
 After she went missing on April 28, her family first found her at Abul Fazal Enclave in Jamia on July 4 and brought her home at an unauthorised colony in Surajkund. However, she could not be found again the very next day. Finally, Meena returned on Friday after managing to escape from the clutches of the woman who was forcing her into prostitution and substance abuse at a brothel situated not far from her school. 
 
 The incident once again reveals the vulnerability of   in the city — one of the accused, Kalaam, was Meena’s neighbour. The police have arrested him and another man, Mehboob, and a woman, Sheila and are looking for other members of the gang.
 
 “Jinhoney mere saath yeh sab kiya hai unhein saza milni chahiyey (all those who did all this to me should be punished),” she said. The fact that the brothel was not far from her school had made her more restless as she struggled to free herself and reclaim her dream as a student. 
 
 Meena has made it clear to her parents that she would resume her studies. “Mujhe strong hona hoga (I will have to be strong),” she said. Though coming from a poor family, her father and brothers are standing firmly behind her. However, all of them are living under constant fear as the family of the accused lives nearby. 
 
 The Surajkund police station has registered an FIR invoking provisions of kidnapping and trafficking under Indian Penal Code and sexual assault under POCSO as the girl is a minor. Last week, the family had sent an SOS through the e-POCSO button of National Commission for Protection of Child Rights after the girl went missing the second time. The   and child development ministry too stepped in to expedite registration of the FIR and investigation. 
 
 However, Nirmal Gorana of National Campaign Committee for Eradication of Bonded labour, who had been assisting the family from the stage of filing the complaint, feels that the biggest concern now is Meena’s rehabilitation. “It is not enough to just make arrests. The girl needs proper care and rehabilitation. This case of a minor who was kidnapped and trafficked is also a case of bonded labour for she was forced into prostitution,” Gorana said. 
 
 The family looked for Meena when she went missing on April 28 but didn’t go to the police immediately due to ignorance as well as fear of social stigma. However, after she went missing the second time, her father complained to the police on July 7. 
 
 According to the complaint, Meena had stepped out to go to a tailor near their house on April 28 but didn’t return. On July 4, the family received a call from a woman from Abul Fazal Enclave saying Meena was with her. On reaching there, they learned about her ordeal. The girl said the two men had kidnapped and raped her before selling her off to a woman in Delhi. The woman had allegedly forced her into prostitution and also compelled her to smoke and consume drugs and alcohol. 
 
 The family brought her home and decided to register an FIR the next day. But Meena disappeared again. This time, her family went to the police and the FIR was lodged the next day on the basis of her father’s complaint. 
 
 Finally after returning home on Friday, Meena told police that on July 4, one of the accused men had phoned her and asked her to meet him in the next lane. During their meeting, he first tried to convince her to return to the brothel. When she disagreed, he forcefully took her back to the brothel.
 
