The Department of Higher Education (DHE), Odisha today published the third round selection merit list for   +3 admission 2017. The students who appeared for the admission entrance test can check their name on the list by visiting website under SAMS tab on the official website of DHE Odhisha http://dheodisha.gov.in or http://dheodisha.gov.in/SAMS/ReportList_DegreeThirdSel.aspx

 The admission of the applicants selected in third round and admission data can be updated from July 20-21, 2017. The university will publish admission data update of third round selection by July 22, 2017 evening. The classes for +3 first year students will begin on July 24, 2017.
 
 
 
 
 1. Go to the official website http://dheodisha.gov.in
 
 2. Click on the Degree +3 admission link
 
 3. Click on the Merit List and fill all the required details
 
 4. Check the selection list and save/print it for further reference
 
 
 
 
 Department of Higher Education, Odisha is a unit of the Government of Odisha in India that looks after the school and college education in the state. The department looks after the education curriculum at University, Post-Graduate, Graduate and Higher Secondary level in the state of Odisha. The department is responsible for hiring and employing the Higher Secondary school teachers and college professors employed in Government schools and colleges running under Government of Odisha. Moreover, it looks after functioning of state run Universities namely Ravenshaw University, Utkal University, Berhampur University, Sambalpur University, Sri Jagannath Sanskrit Viswavidyalaya, North Orissa University, Fakir Mohan University and Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology.
 
 
 
 
 In the year 2010 Department of Higher Education, Odisha introduced Students Academic Management System also known as (SAMS). This facility is based on e-admission of students seeking admission to +2 and +3 classes in various private and government schools, colleges and university in the state of Odisha under Department of Higher Education in the streams of Arts, Commerce, Science and other self finance courses.
 
 
