New Delhi: The   on Tuesday received three complaints from sacked   (AAP) minister Kapil   over alleged irregularities and corruption by Delhi chief minister Arvind  , his close aides in the party and others in the Delhi government.

 CBI spokesperson R K Gaur said the agency was “verifying and examining” the complaints.
 
 Mishra gave CBI three complaints – the first related to his allegations two days ago that he saw Delhi health minister   handing over Rs 2 crore in cash to Kejriwal. In his second complaint, Mishra alleged that Jain helped Kejriwal’s brother-in-law in a Rs 50 crore land deal.
 
 The third complaint was regarding alleged irregularities in foreign trips undertaken by AAP leaders in the last two years. The leaders involved are Ashish Khaitan, Raghav Chaddha, Sanjay Singh, Durgesh Pandey and Satyender Jain. Mishra alleged that party funds were used by AAP leaders to make these trips.
 
 CBI sources said the law allowed the agency to take complaints from private persons and verify them and if the complaint was of a serious nature, then investigation would be taken up.
 
 “In this case, the complaint has been given by a former cabinet minister of a state, against a sitting CM and other leaders. So, these are definitely important complaints and a team will be immediately assigned to verify them. If there is any hint of criminality, then a preliminary enquiry (PE) or a regular case (FIR) will be registered. However, there is no timeline when CBI has to register a PE or RC in a complaint,” a senior CBI officer said. 
 
 “The allegations are of serious nature. We will try to dispose them of early,” said the officer.
 
 The agency, during the verification process, will seek documents from Mishra, if he has any, to back his charges against Kejriwal, Jain and others. The agency doesn’t examine or question anyone during its verification process.
 
 The agency is already investigating three PEs and four FIRs related to Delhi government. Jain is under the scanner in three matters including appointment of his daughter Soumya Jain, his OSD Nikunj Aggarwal and alleged laundering of over Rs 16 crore.
 
