NEW DELHI: With the   making its municipal poll debut, deputy chief minister Manish   on Sunday made a strong pitch for a corruption-free corporation if voted to power.

 Sisodia said his party would strive to improve the sanitation conditions in the capital. Sisodia was interacting with reporters after inaugurating a pilot project for “24x7 drinking water supply through taps” in Navjivan Vihar in south Delhi.
 
 “The BJP-ruled corporations have allowed the city to become filthy by failing in their sanitation job. And people of Delhi, seeing our work in the last two years, now feel that if   wins the civic polls, it will clean the city and the corruption in MCD (sic),” Sisodia said.
 
 The dates for municipal polls are yet to be announced, but are likely to be held in April. The mayors of the three corporations, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari and Congress state president Ajay Maken, among other politicians, are busy inaugurating projects to woo voters. The two parties are themselves stung  's publicity campaign on the schemes it has undertaken in the capital.
 
 On Sunday, at the inauguration of the “24x7 drinking water supply through taps”, Sisodia, DJB chairman Kapil Mishra and Malviya Nagar MLA Somnath Bharati drank water directly from a makeshift tap installed at the venue. Sisodia said the pilot project was “nothing short of a dream come true” and the government aimed to replicate it in the entire city in a phased manner.
 
 The pilot project would benefit 340 families and claims to provide users access to safe drinking water, bypassing the need for underground and overhead tanks. “People of Delhi are eager to vote us (AAP) to power. And to clean the garbage, one must pick up the broom,” Mishra, who is also the water minister, said, referring to the party symbol.
 
 Water and sanitation are two major poll planks for the civic polls.
 
 MLA Somnath Bharti said: “We have delivered to you at city government level and now doing as much as we can at the local level. But, further success of our plans would now hinge on municipal administration. So, put us (AAP) in MCD also, so that we can deliver to you from top to bottom ...” 
 
 The three corporations have been under BJP rule for the last 10 years.
 
 The erstwhile unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi was trifurcated in 2012 into north, south and east Delhi municipal corporations. While NDMC and SDMC have 104 seats each, EDMC has 64.
 
 
