The death of  , a 34-year-old   from Bandra, has cast a shadow of gloom over the city’s biker community. Jagruti was killed after her bike hit a   on the   highway on Sunday. Women bikers in Mumbai can’t believe that they have lost their ‘Bikerni’ (as she was lovingly called), and pay homage to the woman they loved and respected.

 
  
  
 Mumbai-based entrepreneur Dipti Trivedi, who had gone on a few rides with Jagruti, is unable to come to terms with the news. “Our last trip together was from Lonavala to Mumbai and I admired her riding skills. She had learnt to ride at a very young age and was also a trekker, who loved to go exploring. Last week, when I spoke to her, she sounded so bubbly; this news is unbelievable. Jagruti did not deserve this. She had just started living her life. It’s so sad,” she says.
 Jagruti had earlier rode up to Khardung La in Ladakh, one of the highest motorable roads in the world. Andheri-based dental surgeon Dr  , who had accompanied her on this trip, says, “Our ride to   last year was the longest one we one did and I think Jagruti was truly a ‘bikerni’. Did you know she had named her bike ‘Hirkani’, after the story of a lady who loved her son? We met when she was selected for a commercial in 2015 and since then, she was my rider pal. She was actually a safe rider and very skilled; whatever happened was very unfortunate and a freak incident, as she even had all her gear on as usual.” 
 Urvashi Patole, the founder of the   group that Jagruti was part of, and one of her closest friends, says that the loss is incomparable. “Jagruti was an amazing rider and part of so 
 many biking expeditions. It won’t be the same without her on the road now,” she adds. 
 
 
  
  
 Her friends say that Jagruti had fallen victim to a pothole on the road. It is one of the biggest perils for any biker. Says Aparna, “We riders spend a lot of money to ensure that we have all the safety gear in place. Our riding too, is disciplined. But what do we do if road conditions are bad? We need to file an RTI about what the authorities are doing about the potholes.” Adds project leader and biker, Lubna Mojawala, “In so many places in the city — Airoli, King’s Circle and Marol — the potholes can’t even be seen as the vehicles in front of you cover them. It’s not just that. Even wrongly aligned speed breakers and road bumps cause lighter bikes to fly into the air and fall and skid badly. For a new rider, this is extremely dangerous. It’s time the condition of the roads improved.” 
 
 The incident has sent waves of shock and worry through the biker community. “We don’t want to stop riding, but I do feel anxious about being on a bike now,” admits businesswoman Dipty Gurjar, who learnt to ride a motorcycle a few months ago. Adds motorcycle coach  , “I stay at   and the area is ridden with potholes. Earlier, I didn’t worry much about riding, but now I am scared that I will lose my balance and fall. I was planning a ride to Lonavala with my group this weekend, but I have cancelled it,” she says.
 
 
 
