CHENNAI: Agencies probing the coal transportation business at Ennore Port linked to Vivek Rao, son of former chief secretary P Rama Mohan Rao, whose premises were recently raided for alleged tax violations, are scrutinising the link between Vivek Rao and Chettinad Group, which is the main entity handling coal movement at the Ennore Port.

 Entries in a diary seized during a raid on the Chettinad Group in July 2015 “pertain to irregular payments made to Rao's firms that handle coal at Ennore terminal,“ said an investigator.
 
 Ennore Port had entered into a license agreement with Chettinad Group through a special purpose vehicle known as Chettinad International Coal Terminal for a build-operate-transfer scheme. Commercial operations in unloading coal and transportation began in March 2011. Under the agreement, the licensee has to pay 52.524% of gross revenues to Ennore port.
 
 A clutch of privately held firms ­ Breeze Enterprises, Mintra, Trans Earth Logistics and Fossil Logistics, among others ­ have been contracted, by Chettinad to move the coal. The probe is focused on the links between Vivek Rao and one of these four firms. “We see some irregular payments made by the coal terminal to some firms. We are now exploring reasons for these irregular payments,“ investigators told TOI. Coal movement from   port by Trans Earth Logistics too is under the lens.
 
 Detailed mailers sent to Chettinad Group's MD, MAMR   failed to get a response. Ennore Port officials refused to speak on record, but admitted to discrepancies in coal movements on condition of anonymity . Vivek Rao could not be reached for a comment.
 
 One of the angles to the probe is under-reporting of revenues to the tune of `92 per tonne of coal. The port handled nearly nine million tonnes of coal per month last year, including coal shipped from the port to group companies of Chettinad.
 
 Investigators also suspect that one of the firms which handles the coal is inflating its weight by making it wet. The heavier coal is then moved to coal buyers while the portion gained by wetting the coal is then moved to other companies with dummy invoices, they said.
 
 TOI spoke to the former head of an association of truckers who transport consignments from the port and they admitted to large scale violation of rules.
 
 “We disbanded the association in Ennore. There are several irregularities in coal movement, including moving very wet coal. I was general secretary of the Association, but disbanded the Association as we did not want to be party to irregularities,“ said  , former general secretary of the   attached to Ennore port.
 
 Authorities suspect that nearly 20 truckloads or 400 tonnes of coal moves out of the port surreptitiously daily with false or dummy bills. “We are trying to bring all this into the chargesheet,“ they said.
 
 The investigators are poring over diary entries (seized during the 2015 raid) by Selvakumar, a manager of operations at the coal terminal, and also dummy bills raised in the names of one Stephen. “We have established the links between   and the Chettinad Group,' investigators said.
 
 TOI is in possession of documents, way bills and invoices raised by the coal terminal and several firms and logistics companies.
 
