HYDERABAD: After a gap of five years, the   ( ) is getting ready to auction open plots.
By   at Uppal Bhagat near  , the funds-starved metropolitan authority is aiming to earn about `350 crore.
 
 The HMDA has recently sought permission from the   (MA&UD) department to conduct open auctions for nearly 300 plots (1,10,000 sq yards) at Uppal Bhagat. The state government is expected to give its clearance for the same.
 
 These developed plots are a reminder of what was distributed to farmers who lost their land at Uppal Bhagat. The state government had taken over about 758 acres from far mers for the Musi riverfront development at Nagole under the land pooling scheme. Of the total land, 416 acres have been developed with all amenities such as roads, greenery and lighting as per layout requirements. 
 
 After developing the land, 1,324 plots admeasuring 7,58,242 square yards land, divided into 200 sq yards to 2,000 sq yards, were allotted to farmers. The balance land is with the authority as its share.“We expect that there would be good demand for plots if the auction is conducted as it is a developed layout with all amenities. Secondly, it is very close to the Nagole metro railway station. 
 
 The upset price for plots will be decided by a committee appointed by HMDA metropolitan commissioner,“ HMDA member (estate) B Rajesham told TOI. If the auction yields good results, the metropolitan body wants to follow suit and auction another 182 acres (4,80,000 square yards) near Peerzadiguda abutting Musi. The new layout area is also close to the IT hub at Pocharam and has access roads, officials said.
 
 The HMDA last conducted land auctions in July 2012 wherein it put under the hammer 42 plots for auction of which 36 were sold at places such as Nallgandla and Gopanpally in Serilingampally areas. One 4.69 acre plot at Nandagiri Hills was sold at `18 crore per acre.
 
 After that, it did not auction any plots due to state bifurcation and a lull in the real estate sector. Officials of the authority hope that the latest round of auction would fetch the HMDA anywhere between `300 to `350 crore which can be used for various infrastructure projects proposed in the city.
 
