CHENNAI: Newly-appointed   ( ) coach   is facing an uphill task. The   debutants, who sacked their former coach   unceremoniously, are at the bottom of the table with just four points from seven matches. With the side slotted to play their next match against   on Saturday, the 52-year-old will only have two sessions to get the crumbling house in order. To make matters worse, the side is also struggling with injuries to crucial players like defender   (thigh injury), goalkeepers   (knee) and Abhra Mondal (groin).

 Soundara Rajan, though, is undeterred. He is taking the challenge head on and has already rung in a few changes in his first practice session with the side at the SSN College ground on Thursday. “I worked on the shape of the team. I thought there was a lack of communication between the defenders and wingbacks. The defence was a bit disorganised and that’s the reason for conceding goals. Even the midfielders were not communicating with each other. So I rectified these issues and also worked on some specific training techniques with the foreigners and midfielders,” Soundara Rajan told TOI after the practice session on Thursday.
 
 CCFC have been performing in patches. If they dominate in the first half, they have thrown it all away after the break. While the midfielders have created chances, the profligacy of their strikers hurt them in a few matches. Soundara Rajan said that he will bring the killer instinct in the team and especially the strikers. “I know that the strikers are floundering in front of the goal. My job will be to bring the killer instinct in them and I am confident of doing that. I will also tweak the tactics. We will play 4-4-1-1 with a shadow striker. At the same time, I need to tighten my defence,” the former Southern Railways coach pointed out.
 
 CCFC will play their next three matches at home, including the game against Mumbai FC on Saturday. Much like CCFC, Mumbai FC have also hit a rough patch as they have lost five matches on the trot. Soundara Rajan wants to cash in on Mumbai FC’s poor form and will go all out for a win. “We can certainly take heart from Mumbai FC’s recent form. Moreover playing at our home will also put us in an advantageous position. A win can take us to sixth spot. So we will definitely go all out against them,” asserted Soundara Rajan.
 
 In a bid to go all out, the coach also needs to lift the morale of the side, which is at a low after the two losses and the sacking of Robin. Soundara Rajan said that his first task was to pep up the team on Thursday. “Psychologically the team is a bit down at the moment, so I tried to pep up the players in the first session. Since I have little time on my side, my role will be of a problem solver for the first few matches. I have seven to eight players in my squad who have a lot of experience and I will take their feedback and rely on their knowledge for the first few matches,” the coach said.
 
 
