PUNE:   in Wanowrie have some   to look forward to. The long-pending demand to ban parking of vehicles on both sides of the road between the   (SRPF), Group II Arch and Ruby Hall Clinic has finally been considered by the city traffic branch. 

  (traffic)   has invited suggestions and objections from the public in this regard on or before April 21.
 
 Police have decided to ban parking on the narrow road to reduce traffic congestion and facilitate transportation of emergency vehicles, like ambulances and fire brigades, even though the SRPF has restricted traffic movement by installing boom barricades. 
 
 Mundhe told TOI, "The decision was taken after our officers inspected the site and we decided to convert the place into a no-parking area on a pilot basis. Parents can drop wards to school and park vehicles at an alternative site as the place has not been declared as a no-halting zone." 
 
 Residents had been demanding a ban on parking vehicles on the 20ft-wide road for a long time. The issue finally gained momentum after chief executive officer of Ruby Hall Clinic Bomi Bhote wrote to the police commissioner in March. 
 
 Bhote said, "There are complaints of severe traffic congestion outside Kroot Memorial High School as a large number of students make their way to the campus. Eventually, traffic gets thrown out of gear. Patients do not get access to the hospital as they get held up in the jam, sometimes for over an hour during peak hours. I have written to the police to convert the 100 meter road into a no-parking zone. I am happy to learn that my proposal has been considered," Bhote added.
 
 Secretary of the Wanowrie residents association Maithili Manakawad said, "Since the past few years, we have been requesting PMC to widen the road. Vehicles ferrying students create traffic chaos on this stretch half-an-hour before and after school hours. There is no traffic warden to man the road and haphazard, undisciplined parking of vehicles on both sides adds to commuters' woes. I am certain that most Azadnagar residents will support the ban as this is the main access road to the residential area."
 
