Air India is all set to connect Madurai with Singapore. The new service, which is expected to start in September, will bring double delight as it will connect Delhi directly, something which the city has been craving for. At present a Delhi-bound passenger from here has to catch a connection flight from Chennai to reach Delhi.

 This will be the third International flight from Madurai after Dubai and Colombo. SpiceJet operates to Colombo and Dubai while Mihin Lanka flies to Colombo. Confirming the new service, Airport Authority of India sources said the flight would be operated four times a week. However, depending on the patronage, it may be made daily too. The news has sparked celebrations among residents and fliers in the district. 
 
 Since Madurai has not been included in the Bilateral Air Services Agreement ( ) with international destinations other than Colombo, foreign flights cannot operate from here although many have evinced interest in operating flights. However, nothing stops Indian operators from operating flights to foreign destinations. With the international cargo facility expected to become operational shortly, they are expected to come forward to fly to destinations like Malaysia. 
 
 Former president of   BGS Mustafa said that the demand for a flight to Singapore was being made for the last five years. The service would help business development in Madurai besides increasing tourist inflow to the temple city. The timing of the flight would be an added advantage as they plan to operate in the night. 
 
 Senior president of Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce S Rethinavelu said, “It is a big development for  . With the international cargo facility expected to take off in a month, it would be more viable. At present the flights to Dubai and Colombo are going with empty cargo space. It would help local educated young farmers to export vegetables, fruits and jasmine,” he said. 
 
 WHAT SINGAPORE CONNECTIVITY MEANS 
 
 People from south Tamil Nadu can now look to fly directly to Malaysia and Gulf countries. 
 
 At present, they are forced to rely on Trichy, Chennai and Trivandrum airports 
 
 20 % international passengers from Chennai and and 30 % from Trichy airport are from south TN
 
 20 % of international passengers from Trivandrum too are estimated to be from south TN
 
 Madurai needs to be included in BASA agreement with other countries to enable foreign carriers to start operation here
 
