KAKINADA: The   administration is all set to host the four-day   that will be held here from Thursday. As a prelude to the big event, a marathon was organised on Wednesday and flagged off by district collector Arun Kumar. 

 Helitourism and trip to Hope Island will be the major attractions of the festival, which is set to see around six lakh people in four days. 
 
 In order to attract tourists, the district administration has set a special Hope Island package at a cost of Rs 1,200 for adults and Rs 500 for children. The organisers would take the people to Hope Island, which is a 15-km boat ride from the fishing harbour. The tourists would be hosted in makeshift tents and served food before they are taken to see olive ridley turtles, sources said. 
 
 Deputy chief minister and home minister N Chinarajappa will inaugurate the Rs 3.5-crore   bridge on Thursday, while irrigation minister Devineni Uma Maheswara Rao would lay the foundation stone for the Rs 4-crore four-lane bridge construction at Sarpavaram Bhannaarana temple in Kakinada rural mandal. The minister would also inaugurate the four-lane bridge and road at the beach. 
 
 As part of the beach festival, the district administration would host sports activities like beach kabaddi, volleyball, wrestling, yoga, water sports competitions, as well as exhibition of sand sculptures, kites festival, flash mob, dance with water colour and flower show. In the evening, there would be cultural programmes, laser shows and music and dance shows. Apart from this, various sweet stalls and food stalls would also be set up on the beach. 
 
 For water sports, the administration has invited Goa and other state teams to participate. On January 14, kite festival and rain dance would be organised and every day candle light dinner would be arranged. Tollywood singers and dancers would perform on January 13 and 14. 
 
 However, employees of various departments of Kakinada and rural mandals are dissatisfied with the show as their holidays were cancelled. Kakinada division cops are also busy in making arrangements for the beach festival. 
 
 In the Hope Island package, tourists would be taken to Hope Island, which is a 15-km boat ride from the fishing harbour. The tourists would be hosted in makeshift tents and served food before they are taken to see olive ridley turtles
 
 
