BHOPAL: He was the   of Opposition. But in a dramatic move on the day of a   against the   government on July 11, 2013 Rakesh Singh Chaturvedi betrayed his party and joined BJP. Now, three years later when he is in the BJP, a video has gone viral on the social media showing this former minister of the erstwhile Digvijaya Singh Congress government campaigning for the BSP in Uttar Pradesh.

 The video shows Rakesh Singh sitting in a room and asking for votes for the BSP candidate from Etawah and his cousin Narendra Singh Chaturvedi. Not only is he seen canvassing for the BSP but even uses offensive language against the BJP’s woman candidate Sarita Bhadauria from the seat. All this happens when chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is campaigning for the BJP’s candidates in these areas of Uttar Pradesh including Etawah.
 
 Speaking to reporters, former Congress leader of Opposition Ajay Singh said, “Chaturvedi has been exposed. It is good for the Congress that he left the party. The BJP will have to contemplate on how sensible it has been to have accepted such a person in their party fold.” Chaturvedi was deputy to Ajay Singh when he walked-over to the ruling BJP.
 
 Chaturvedi a five-time MLA from Bhind was not fielded by BJP in 2013 assembly polls. However, his brother Mukesh Singh Chaturvedi is a BJP MLA from Mehgaon in Bhind district.
 
 In the video, Rakesh Singh is seen arguing with a prospective voter that his brother is the best suited to become MLA. He says, “All three candidates contesting from the seat are “bure log (bad people).” Will you vote for the candidate with the worst record or the person who is the best of the three?”
 
 Rakesh Singh, meanwhile, claimed the video is fake and tampered. “This is an old video and I was attending a function at a personal level several months ago. Comments that have been made and attributed to me are the results of audio tampering. It is not my voice. So far as Sarita Bhadauria is concerned, she is like a sister to me and I respect her.”
 
 State BJP also sees a conspiracy by the Congress in the video. BJP spokesman Rahul Kothari said, “Chaturvedi has already cleared his stand and said it is not his voice in the recording. This is a foul-play orchestrated by the Congress party.”
 
