NAGPUR: The statutory   (LACs), constituted after Supreme Court directions to regulate tourism in all   in the state, have become virtually defunct with no meetings.   members are also not taken into confidence while taking crucial decisions related to monitoring tourism activities.

 Based on the SC order in 2012, the   (NTCA) had asked states to constitute LACs and bring in legislation to favour community-driven and low-impact ecotourism in place of wildlife tourism to maintain integrity and connectivity of tiger reserves.
 
 However, information sought on April 26 under the RTI Act by Avinash Prabhune reveals that LACs of   and Bor tiger reserves have not met even once since they were constituted in August 2015. He had sought a copy of minutes of meetings held from April 2015 till date. Ideally, LAC meetings should have been held once in six months.
 
 “As no meetings were held, Pench office could not supply minutes of the meetings about decisions taken,” said Prabhune.
 
 LAC members said their views were never sought. “LAC meetings were never convened to discuss tourism fee hike in Pench and Bor, or while deciding carrying capacity, opening and closing of routes etc. A couple of times I had requested then field director MS Reddy to call meetings, but they were never held,” said Swanand Soni, LAC member for Bor.
 
 However, former field director of Pench MS Reddy said, “If you go by the books, meeting should be called regularly. However, since most of the decisions regarding carrying capacity, gate fee, tourism routes etc were already taken and there were no issues at all, there was no need to call LAC meeting.”
 
 A couple of field directors said they were also reluctant to call LAC meetings since public representatives most of time used to put forward demands that were not in line with wildlife laws.
 
 Pench LAC member Dr Anil Pimlapure too said he had never received any call for meetings, nor was he intimated about decisions taken where LAC had a role to play. Many crucial decisions like ban on private vehicles, new routes, fee hike were taken without LAC nod, though this was the mandate of the LAC.
 
 Nagpur divisional commissioner is chairman of the LACs of Tadoba, Pench and Bor, while Amravati commissioner is for Melghat, and respective field directors are member-secretary (responsible for effective functioning of LAC). Every LAC has about 18-19 members including local MLAs, collector, experts, local body heads and NGOs.
 
 The LACs of Tadoba and Melghat too have not been functioning regularly. “The last LAC of Tadoba met in February 2016. We have still not received minutes though field director has sent them to chairman for approval,” said Bandu Dhotre, LAC member.
 
 Yogesh Dudhpachare too admitted that many decisions regarding tourism in and around Tadoba were taken without LAC consent. “The LAC is only on paper,” he added.
 
 In Melghat too, LAC has met twice in last five years. “I agree that LAC meetings are not held regularly, but one of the reasons is busy schedules of divisional commissioners. LACs should be reconstituted under field directors,” said Nishikant Kale, LAC member, Melghat.
 
 “Not holding meetings and not involving stakeholders is in violation of SC directives. Besides, with wildlife tourism becoming a big industry in the region, regulations are must for sustainability. Overcrowding of parks will harm both tourism and conservation interests, and it is here that LAC can play a key role,” said Prabhune.
 
