HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) will soon start selling water from   (STPs) for gardening, construction and washing vehicles and animals. The reason behind the move is to reduce the huge costs borne by the board for drawing water from sources and then supplying it to consumers at affordable rates.

 According to conservative estimates, the HMWS&B spends Rs 40 per litre for treating (chlorination and mixing of alum) raw water from sources (Krishna, Godavari, Singur) but it supplies this to customers at Rs 7 per litre. This water was being supplied to needy customers through tankers from the HMWS&SB filling stations on payment.As a result, the water board was losing revenue. “The idea is to save potable water and supply it to customers in the summer. In one of our studies, we found that customers were using potable water for washing vehicles, gardening or curing under-construction structures. Even groundwater could be saved if water from STPs (tertiary water) is used. Tertiary water is as good as treated raw water from sources and is odour-free too. We cannot even differentiate between the two. Currently, tertiary water at a 20-MLD capacity is being generated at the   (Necklace Road),“ HMWS&SB director operations, G   told TOI.
 
 The water board will be selling STP-generated water at Rs 50 per tanker from March second week onwards. The HMWS&SB officials have been making plans to supply this water for gardening purposes at   and the Telangana chief minister's camp office-cum-residence.The water board plans to supply the STP water to government agencies also, the official said. Six STPs under the water board in the city would be selling water in the next phase, he said.
 
 There are two major steps in converting sewer water into tertiary water. The first step is when nearly 50% of trash and pollutants are removed. In the second step, another 35-40% of pollutants are cleared as water is passed through a secondary sedimentation tank that allows both solid waste and microorganisms to form clumps and settle at the bottom. After the two-step process, tertiary water is fit for human consumption.
 
