PATNA: The trial run of one-way movement of traffic from pillar number 1 to 8 (from Hajipur side) on   and the entire stretch of the pontoon bridge parallel to it was held smoothly on Thursday.

 Patna and Vaishali district administrations and Patna traffic police commenced the day-long trial of one-way traffic movement on the Setu and pontoon bridge in order to assess the vehicular movement during the proposed rehabilitation of the 35-year old Setu. 
 
 Vehicles from both sides were allowed to move only on the western flank of the bridge between pillar number 1 and 8 (from Hajipur side) as the eastern flank of the bridge on that stretch was closed. 
 
 Besides, pontoon bridge was allowed to be used only for vehicles going from Patna to Hajipur. For the first, vehicles were allowed to move on the pontoon bridge after sunset too. However, only light vehicles are allowed to move on the pontoon bridge. 
 
 The length of the pontoon bridge is 1.5km and it has been constructed by Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL). The approach roads for the bridge start from   police station on Patna side and Gandhi Setu police station in Hajipur.
 
 Patna Traffic SP P K Das said the trial run for one-way movement on the Setu and pontoon bridge started at 4.30pm on Thursday and it would conclude at 2pm on Friday. Das added the one-way movement on pontoon bridge would change from Patna-Hajipur as allowed on Thursday to   from 6am on Friday. 
 
 “The trial run for one-way vehicular movement on Gandhi Setu and pontoon bridge was held smoothly though there were very few sand trucks. “The pontoon bridge is a boon for vehicular movement across the Ganga and we are hopeful of no hassles in the traffic movement during the Setu rehabilitation work,” Das said.
 
 The existing superstructure of the Gandhi Setu is proposed to be completely demolished and triangular steel girders, as seen in rail-cum-road bridges like   or Koilwar rail bridge, would be erected under the rehabilitation process. 
 
 The repair work would be undertaken in two phases – the upstream (Patna- Hajipur) and downstream (Hajipur- Patna side). The upstream of the bridge would be completely demolished first and vehicles from both sides would be allowed to move only on the downstream side. Upon completion of repair on upstream, the downstream (Hajipu- Patna) would be taken up for repair in similar manner.
 
 The project is targeted to be completed in 42 months with an estimated expenditure of Rs 1,742.01 crore. The rehabilitated bridge would be 14metre and have four lanes. Other utilities on the bridge would include footpath (1.5 meter wide), railings, anti-crash barrier, utility carrier and solar-powered streetlights for illumination.
 
