KENDRAPADA: The village of Jaguleipada in   does not occupy a position of   in Mahatma Gandhi's life. But it does in his death. 

 This is where Raghu Nayak, the man who caught Gandhi's assassin   lived and where his 86-year-old widow Mandodhari Nayak now spends her days in unrequited hope that she will one day get to revisit Gandhi Smriti in New Delhi. 
 
 Formerly known as  , the Gandhi Smriti is where the Mahatma was shot dead on January 30, 1948.
 
 The family had been given living quarters in the Tees January Road venue in New Delhi. However, Mandodhari's wish to return to a place of great significance to her has not been fulfilled yet.
 
 "I am now at the end of my life. I spent around twenty years in Birla Housewith my husband and children. I wish to pay homage to the father of the nation along with my daughters and grand children by visiting the place where Mahatma Gandhi had been assassinated," said Mandodhari. 
 
 The Nayaks returned to their village in 1965 after Raghu retired. "My husband died in 1983 leaving behind our son Bidyadhar and three daughters, Santi, Basanti and Jayanti. Bidyadhar was working as a driver with Odisha police. But he died in a road accident 15 years ago. Now my daughters are taking care of me," said Mandodhari. 
 
 Last year, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had awarded Rs five lakh to Mandodhari. Now, it is Naveen's government that her family seeks help from to make her wish come true.
 
 "We are determined to fulfill the wish of our grandmother with the help of the state government," said Mandodhari's grandson Deepak Nayak, who works at a software company in Bhubaneswar.
 
 The role of Raghu is not lost on biographers of Gandhi. Pyarelal, the personal secretary of Gandhiji, mentioned the work of Raghu Nayak in his book 'The Last Phase of Mahatma Gandhi'. "In the moment when Gandhi was shot, Raghu had pinned down Godse," said Prafulla Das, a noted historian. 
 
 Dr Rajandra Prasad, the first president of India had felicitated Raghu Nayak at the Rastrapati Bhavan in 1955 and granted him Rs 500, praising Raghu for catching the killer of the nation's father. Today, the man's widow awaits a final brush with history. 
 
 
