AHMEDABAD: Nearly 1.3 lakh students took the Gujarat Common Entrance Test ( ) held across the state on Wednesday. Most students found the mathematics paper lengthy. The physics, chemistry and biology sections were based on Class 12 textbooks of Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Board.

 Gujarat government had been conducting GujCET for admissions to medical and paramedical courses till last year. This year, however, the government has made GujCET compulsory for students seeking admission in engineering colleges in the state.
 
  The students found that board officials invigilating at test centre were relaxed as compared to those supervising the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). On Wednesday, the students were allowed to enter the hall without any checking.
 
 Several non-Gujarati students as at several places found it hard to understand the instructions that were only in Gujarati.  , who appeared in GujCET with mathematics, said that he failed to understand Gujarati. He said that when he requested the invigilator to explain in Gujarati, he asked Pillai to talk to his neighbour.
 
 Vishwas Patel, another examinee, said that the first section was that of physics and mathematics. Questions in this section were easy and based on the Gujarat board textbooks. The mathematics paper was lengthy and it did not give students time to revise, Patel said.
 
 The aspirants claimed that except for asking them to remove their shoes, board officials were not as strict as those of JEE or NEET. “We were allowed to wear full-sleeve shirts,” said Jignesh Dave.At several centres, however, the invigilators insisted that students should carry their photo identity cards. Rachana Shah, a resident of Shahibaugh, said that there was no instruction on the hall ticket asking students to carry their photo identity cards. “But at Sola Road centre, I was asked to go and get the identity card for the second paper,” Shah said.
 
 Some parents said that the board should have spread GujCET over two days as this would protect parents and students from the summer heat. 
 
 “GujCET for students with mathematics should have been held on one day. The second day could be for students with biology,” said   who had come from  .On Wednesday the first paper was of two hours. “For the mathematics paper, one had to wait outside the hall for nearly two-and-half hours as the paper was scheduled for 3 pm,” Patel said.
 
