MUMBAI:  , one of the oldest structural engineers in Mumbai, says history often, if not always, repeats itself. He was referring to Tuesday’s  , which has claimed 17 lives.

 Dhupelia has seen it all in his 45-year-long career; he was appointed on a slew of government and   to probe some of the most devastating   in the city.
 
 These include the   at Worli, which claimed 15 lives; the   (28 dead) in Sion; the   in Borivli (26 dead) and several other crashes.
 
 “Most incidents are due to someone’s irresponsible repair work and not because the building was old,’’ he told TOI on Wednesday. Dhupelia said during the course of his investigations, he found that the damage that led to the collapse was mainly on the ground floor. “Crashes occur when certain key structural components are disturbed. People make changes in their premises because they are over-confident nothing will happen,” he added.
 
 “Load bearing walls, beams and columns cannot be altered or cut. Many times, people at the ground level lower the plinth to get extra height,” said Dhupelia.
 
 The Poonam Chambers crash at Worli in 1997 came as a big shock to many in the city because not only was it a landmark building, but that it was barely 25 years old. Dhupelia, who was on the expert committee that examined the crash, concluded that some of the pillars were cut to install electrical equipment inside them. “Carrying out of certain works during interior decoration, like cutting chases in the main load-bearing structural RCC columns and slabs, particularly as observed on the fifth floor, contributed to the deterioration of the structure,’’ his findings on the 1997 collapse said. The report stated that additional disturbances to these distressed concrete zones was caused by undefined vibrations ``from various equipment on various floors and at various locations…without any devices for vibration isolation and absorption,’’ it said.
 
 Investigating a building crash is like being a detective, trying to gather forensic evidence sifting through the rubble. It’s a pain-staking job to pin-point what could have caused the crash, he observed.
 
 Dhupelia advised residents to be vigilant and prevent the errant occupant, who may be damaging the structural stability of the building during renovation. Secondly, he said, residents must also take care to ensure that the building does not deteriorate and get the structure examined by qualified architects and structural engineers.
 
